http://www.faa.gov/avr/afs/afs800/fbo.htm

   NOTICE

   U.S. DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

   FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION

   N 8700.12



                          FLIGHT STANDARDS SERVICE

   01/09/02




   Cancellation
   Date:  07/09/02



   SUBJ:

   SUGGESTIONS FOR ENHANCED SECURITY FOR FLIGHT SCHOOLS AND FIXED BASE
   OPERATORS

   1.   PURPOSE.  The information contained in this notice is provided to
   aviation safety inspectors to allow them to assist flight schools and
   fixed base operators in enhancing security in and around general
   aviation airports and aircraft parking areas.
   2.   BACKGROUND.

         a.   Disseminated Information.

              (1)  Public Use Airports.  In October 2001, the FAA’s Office
   of Airports sent security guidance to all public use airport and
   airfield owners and operators.  The security guidance included
   direction to contact local law enforcement to verify procedures to
   report suspicious persons or activities at the airfield; report
   promptly information indicating possible criminal activity to local law
   enforcement; and distribute security guidance to all organizations on
   the public use airport.

              (2)  Flight Schools and Training Centers.  Inspectors have
   received N 8700.11, Flight School and Training Center Requirements
   Under the Aviation and Transportation Security Act, dated December 17,
   2001, with the requirement to advise flight schools and training
   centers of the requirements of the Aviation and Transportation Security
   Act.  This legislation required flight schools and training centers to
   advise the Attorney General of any foreign applicants for flight
   instruction and to provide the Attorney General specific information on
   these foreign applicants.  The Department of Justice, the Federal
   Bureau of Investigation, and the Immigration and Naturalization Service
   are outlining the process and the details on the information to be
   provided, and once this is finalized, the process will be provided to
   flight schools and training centers.

             (3)  Flight Instructors.  Information similar to that to be
   provided to flight schools and training centers regarding foreign
   applicants will be mailed to all certificated flight instructors in the
   country, once the process and information have been finalized.

        b.   Recent Events.
              (1)  Unauthorized Flight.  On January 5, 2002, a 15-year old
   student pilot took an aircraft without authorization from the flight
   school where he had been taking flying lessons.  The student pilot took
   off without clearance, traversed military airspace without permission,
   and crashed into a 42-story building in downtown Tampa, Florida.  There
   was damage to the building, but no one inside the building or on the
   ground was injured by the crash itself or by falling debris.  There was
   no fire, and the student was the only fatality.  The accident is still
   under investigation and has raised concerns among the
   public and federal law enforcement organizations about the security of
   general aviation and how that can be improved.
              (2)  FAA/Industry Cooperation.  Flight Standards is working
   with general aviation organizations such as the Aircraft Owners and
   Pilots Association, the Experimental Aircraft Association, the National
   Air Transportation Association, the National Association of Flight
   Instructors, and the National Business Aviation Association, among
   others, to encourage the adoption of these or similar recommendations.

   3.   DISTRIBUTION.  This notice is distributed electronically to all
   Flight Standards District Offices.

   4.   APPLICABILITY.  This notice applies to principal inspectors of
   flight schools and other aviation safety inspectors who have
   surveillance responsibility for fixed base operators.

   5.   ACTION.

         a.    Inspectors.

               (1)  Provide the following information to all flight
   schools and fixed base operators within the jurisdiction of each Flight
   Standards District Office.  (Consider using the office Safety Program
   Manager to contact fixed base operators.)

               (2)  Encourage flight schools and fixed base operators to
   implement applicable suggestions contained in this notice.

         b.  Alternative Dissemination.  The information contained in
   paragraph 6 will be posted on the FAA public web site at the following
   URL:  www.faa.gov.  (Click on the link “Flight School Security” at the
   top of the page.)  Inspectors may refer flight schools and fixed base
   operators with Internet access to that URL.  This information will also
   be provided to the major general aviation advocacy groups for inclusion
   on their Internet sites.

   6.  SUGGESTIONS FOR ENHANCED SECURITY FOR FLIGHT SCHOOLS/FIXED BASE
   OPERATORS.
         a.   Business Considerations.  In view of the accident which
   occurred on January 5, 2002, involving a 15-year old student pilot
   taking an aircraft without authorization, an action which resulted in a
   fatality to the student pilot, flight schools and fixed base operators
   should consider implementing any of the following suggestions
   appropriate to the size and scope of their flight operations.  Note
   that some suggestions supersede or are more extensive than others, and
   operators should adapt those that best fit their businesses.  Another
   distinction to be made is whether these enhancements should apply to
   student pilots once they have soloed, and the suggestions are geared
   toward the pre-solo student pilot, some applying only to underage
   student pilots.  Flight schools and fixed base operators should
   evaluate their operations from a security standpoint and institute
   policies and procedures commensurate with their specific business.
   Before attempting to implement any of these suggestions, consider
   designating an employee as a security coordinator to be responsible for
   maintaining, upgrading, and updating any security policies and
   procedures.

        b.   Possible Security Enhancements.

             (1) Use a different ignition key from the door lock key.  The
   instructor would provide the ignition key when he or she arrives at the
   aircraft.

             (2) Limit student pilot access to aircraft keys until the
   student pilot has reached a specific point in the training curriculum,
   i.e., successful completion of the pre-solo written test.

             (3) Before solo, keep student pilots under the supervision of
   a flight instructor at all times, regardless of the student’s age.

             (4) Consider having any student pilot check in with a
   specific employee—i.e., dispatcher, aircraft scheduler, a flight
   instructor, or some other “management” official—before being allowed
   access to parked aircraft; or have the student sign or initial a form
   and not receive keys until an instructor or other “management official”
   also signs or initials.

             (5) Establish positive identification of any student pilot
   before every flight lesson.

             (6) If the student pilot is not yet a legal adult at the time
   of enrollment, the enrollment application, if applicable, should be
   co-signed by a parent or legal guardian.

             (7) Even though a medical certificate is not required until
   the student pilot is ready to solo, consider establishing a school/FBO
   policy that the student pilot obtains the medical certificate before he
   or she begins flight lessons.  (A medical certificate will be denied if
   the individual has a disqualifying mental condition.)  Introductory
   flights could be exempt from this policy.

             (8) To prevent unauthorized use of aircraft, take steps
   appropriate to the specific type of aircraft to secure it when it is
   unattended.

             (9) Consider having an instructor or other school or FBO
   employee open the aircraft door and retain possession of the key during
   the student pilot’s preflight inspection.

             (10) Place a prominent sign near areas of public access
   warning against tampering with or unauthorized use of aircraft; clearly
   post emergency telephone numbers (police, fire, FBI) so that people may
   report suspicious activity.  (Emphasize that people other than
   employees should not take action on suspicious activity but should
   report it to the appropriate law enforcement authority.)

             (11) Train employees as well as pilots who regularly use the
   aircraft to be on the lookout for suspicious activity, e.g., transient
   aircraft with unusual or unauthorized modifications; persons loitering
   for extended periods in the vicinity of parked aircraft or in pilot
   lounges; pilots who appear to be under the control of another person;
   persons wishing to rent
   aircraft without presenting proper credentials or identification;
   persons who present apparently valid credentials but who do not display
   a corresponding level of aviation knowledge; any pilot who makes
   threats or statements inconsistent with
   normal uses or aircraft; or events or circumstances that do not fit the
   pattern of lawful, normal activity at an airport.

   7.   DISPOSITION.  This notice will not be included in an upcoming
   change to Order 8700.1 and will expire on the date indicated above.  If
   additional guidance is necessary, it will be published in a separate
   notice (i.e., notices are not amended or changed).  Any questions
   concerning this notice should be directed to the General Aviation and
   Commercial Division, AFS-800, (202) 267-8212.

   Original signed by
   James J. Ballough

   Director
   Flight Standards Service
