http://gun.gsfc.nasa.gov/rules.html

                         NASA Goddard Sportsman Club

                      Range Safety Rules and Procedures

                                [GGClogo.gif]

                           Goddard Gun Club, Inc.

   [colorsep.gif]

   I INTRODUCTION

   All privileges require a current un-expired membership card in your
   possession. Members may not transport or possess firearms on GSFC
   without their valid membership card on your person. Members
   transporting or possessing firearms within GSFC without their valid
   membership card will be prosecuted by GSFC Security. NO FIREARMS SHALL
   BE UNCASED, DISPLAYED OR HANDLED EXCEPT AT THE RANGE.

   The Goddard Gun Club 50 yard range is to be used only for shooting at
   up to 50 yards for most (not all) pistols and .22 rim fire rifles. All
   shooters, regardless of past experience, will be briefed by the Range
   Captain (RC) or the Range Safety Officer (RSO) on duty prior to
   approaching the firing line. The range may be open, weather permitting,
   from 3:00 p.m. local time Monday through Thursday. On Fridays, the
   range will be reserved for instruction, if there is no instruction the
   range may be used by others from 3:00 p.m. until dusk. On Saturday,
   Sunday and Federal Government Holidays the range may be open from dawn
   until dusk. The range may be opened only by a qualified RC or RSO.
   Scheduled competition matches and tournaments have priority over
   informal shooting practice. All shooters not yet qualified to open the
   range may call Security at the Main Gate House (301-286-8661) to
   determine if the range has been opened.

   NOTE: GSFC Security schedules the 50 yard range four weekend half-days
   plus 2 contingency days during the year for training purposes (two
   during late April/early May, and two in October). The schedule will be
   posted as soon as available at the range or can be had by calling the
   Executive Officer. In addition, GSFC Security has the 50-yard range
   scheduled for 4 or 5 nights for night firing training. this does not
   impact Club usage at this time since the range is closed at dusk.

   ****** DO NOT INTERFERE WITH SECURITY ******

   II GENERAL RANGE RULES

   All range facilities shall be restricted for use by current gun club
   members and their authorized guests only.

   A qualified RC or RSO shall be present and officiating at all times
   when firing is in progress. For the purpose of this document, when an
   RSO opens the facility, the RSO will serve as RC.

   All shooters shall sign the register book prior to using the range,
   indicating the time in and time out of the range.

   All shooters shall become familiar with the range safety rules and
   procedures prior to using the range.

   A safety check will be given by the RC to all new shooters prior to
   their shooting on the range.

   An inexperienced shooter shall be accompanied by an experienced
   shooter.

   All shooting shall be from the firing line positions at paper targets.
   Targets shall be properly placed on the target holders and in front of
   the backstop berm.

   No intentional shooting shall be permitted at or into the side berms,
   sidewalls, baffle system, supporting structures, sand bags or the
   in-field ground. Shoot only so that the projectile impacts the backstop
   berm.

   No "live" or "dud" ammunition shall be left on the range. Shooters
   shall police their area after firing by removing trash, "spent"
   casings, shells, boxes, etc.

   No smoking, drinking or eating shall be allowed on the firing line.

   All vehicles shall be parked in the designated parking area. The RC
   officiating shall park his vehicle in a close proximity to the firing
   line of the 50-yard range for use in an emergency.

   Alcoholic beverages and controlled substances shall not be permitted in
   the range area. Persons deemed "impaired" by the RC or RSO shall not be
   permitted on the range.

   Loud and abusive language shall not be permitted.

   The RC officiating over the range shall have absolute control over the
   facility and, at his discretion, may direct any other person to leave
   if his actions or behavior are deemed unsafe or unruly.

   All shooters and spectators shall wear eye and ear protection.
   Spectators without protection shall stand away from the firing line.

   Firearms may be transported on center by a current member if, and only
   if that member is going to use the range that day, or transfer the
   firearm using the club's Federal Firearm License that day. Firearms
   shall be carried in the locked trunk of the vehicle, unloaded, in a
   case and in a safe condition. Current club membership cards shall be
   carried while transporting firearms on center. (Members are responsible
   for complying with all Federal, State and Local laws.) GUESTS ARE
   PROHIBITED FROM TRANSPORTING FIREARMS WITHIN GODDARD PERIMETERS.

   III FIRING LINE RULES

   No firearm shall be uncased, displayed or handled except on the firing
   line. All firearms on the firing line shall be handled in a safe
   manner.

   No one shall walk or move in front of the firing line for any reason
   except by the direction of the RC, who shall ensure that all firearms
   are unloaded with their actions safe.

   All firearms shall be unloaded with their actions and bolt in a safe
   condition until the shooter is on the firing line. Always point the
   muzzle in a safe direction, i.e., downrange.

   Dry firing of firearms is only permitted on the firing line with the
   muzzle pointed in a safe direction, i.e., downrange.

   While on the firing line, all shooters shall be subject to the commands
   of the RC.

   Handguns shall not be loaded with more than ten rounds at a time.
   Magazines may be tested under the cognizance of the RC.

   If a misfire or jam occurs, the shooter shall signal the RC (by raising
   his hand while keeping the muzzle pointed downrange) who will clear the
   firearm.

   At the "Cease Fire" command, all firearms shall be immediately unloaded
   and made safe.

   Prior to leaving the firing line, a shooter shall unload and make his
   firearm safe.

   Only handguns with muzzle energy equal to or less than a .44 magnum or
   .22 caliber rim fire rifles shall be fired on the 50-yard range.

   All shooters shall be qualified by a RC prior to the use of the range.
   All firearms shall be fired from the firing line.

   The use of armor piercing, incendiary, or explosive ammunition is
   strictly prohibited on the range.

   The RC has the authority to examine at any time any firearm or
   ammunition to determine its suitability for use on the range.

   When on the firing line, a shooter shall have only one firearm and its
   ammunition out of its case at a time.

   You may not fire strings at a rate that precludes your being able to
   aim each shot.

   IV DUTIES OF THE RANGE CAPTAIN OR RANGE SAFETY OFFICER HAVING RANGE
   RESPONSIBILITIES

   Opening the range:

   Notify the GSFC Security Operations Center in person by stopping at the
   Main Gate house (Building 9, Room 9) or by phone at 286-8661, that the
   range is being opened.

   Raise the red flag up the pole.

   Place the road barriers in their designated places.

   Make the log available for all shooters to log on and off.

   Sign in the logbook, affirming the above.

   Prior to any shooting:

   Inspect membership cards.

   Brief all shooters of posted range rules.

   Closing the Range:

   Secure all club equipment in the trailer.

   Notify GSFC Security that the range is closed.

   Sign in the logbook, affirming the above.

   EMERGENCY
   :

   Personal Injury: Call 112 to secure aid. Return to the injured person
   and do what you can to help. Post a person, if available, at the top of
   the road to direct emergency vehicles.

   Fire: Call 112, then clear the area. Post a person, if available, at
   the top of the road to direct emergency vehicles.

   [colorsep.gif]

   [GGClogo.gif] NASA Goddard Sportsman Club Home Page

   The Goddard Space Flight Center Home Page

   The NASA Home Page
