http://www.spd.nasa.gov/news.html

   Space Product Development              NASA Insignia
                             Space for Business to Grow


      Click here to skip menu
   Home
   What is SPD?
   Industry
   Research
   Commercial
   Space Centers
   News
   Events
   Success Stories
   Contact Us
    Search
     _______________ go

   NEWS

   January 10, 2002 - Joining the Fight Against Terrorism Several of
   NASA's Commercial Space Centers (CSCs) and Industrial Partners are
   joining in the fight against terrorism.
     * KES Science & Technology, Inc.
     * NASA Food Technology Commercial Space Center (FTCSC)
     * ProVision Technologies
     * Space Communications Technology Center (SCTC)

   January 3, 2002 - Looking Throught the Eyes of SVEC - Using space
   technology, scientists have developed extraordinary ceramic photocells
   that could repair malfunctioning human eyes

   December 28, 2001 - NASA teams with Amgen to test osteoporosis
   treatment - Half the women in America over the age of 50 will
   eventually suffer fractures stemming from bone loss (osteoporosis), and
   more than 30 million women will develop significant bone loss and the
   resulting increased risk of serious bone fractures, according to the
   National Osteoporosis Foundation. Now, NASA and Amgen, the world's
   largest biotechnology company, are teaming up to use the bone loss
   experienced in space travel as a "laboratory" in which to simulate
   accelerated osteoporosis.

   December 21, 2001 - MITAC Holds Telemedecine Training One of SPD's
   Commercial Space Centers, Medical Informatics & Technology Application
   Consortium (MITAC) hosted two Ecuadorian physicians during an intense
   two-week training program on telemedicine and technology used in the
   telemedicine testbed in Ecuador. This training ranged from computer
   support to high frequency radio communications. Also, MITAC signed an
   affiliation agreement with the Fundeni Clinic Institute in Bucharest,
   Romania. The objectives of the agreement are to collaborate in mutually
   beneficial collaborative activities in telemedicine. MITAC Executive
   Director, Charles R. Doarn, was recently named to the Editorial Board
   of the Telemedicine Journal and E-Health. The Telemedicine Journal and
   E-Health is the official journal of the American Telemedicine
   Association.

   MITAC representatives also participated in the Conference on Mobile
   Health: New Technologies in Wellness Prevention and Treatment in San
   Diego, CA. As a co-sponsor of this first conference on mobile health,
   MITAC held a special education session on its work on mobile medicine
   with the MITAC-developed rapidly deployable telemedicine unit and the
   test beds in Ecuador using the mobile surgical facility. Charles Doarn,
   Brett Harnett, Timothy Broderick, M.D. and Stephen Cone, M.D. gave
   presentations on MITAC activities. The participants were very
   interested in MITAC's activities and accomplishments with regard to
   mobility and medicine.

   December 10, 2001 Space Bones - As Space Shuttle Endeavor orbits Earth,
   a potential treatment for osteoporosis is being tested.

   December 3, 2001 Guest Keynote To Bring Out-Of-This World Biotechnology
   Down-To-Earth The world's leading pharmaceutical informatics trade show
   and meeting will take its participants to new heights this year. To the
   height of the International Space Station, as a matter of fact.

   October 27, 2001 Thinking small on a large scale The Space Vacuum
   Epitaxy Center is working on a project that could protect our nation
   from terrorism. An extremely miniaturized laser that could fit within a
   flashlight may be the next step to protecting our nations security.
   These lasers could be placed aboard commercial and private jets, as
   well as, helicopters to jam heat-seeking missiles that may threaten the
   aircraft.

   September 21, 2001 Suds in Space People can endure many discomforts in
   exchange for the thrill of living in space. The nausea of space
   sickness, fitful sleep without the familiar pressure of a bed,
   tasteless meals eaten from plastic bags -- it's all fine as long as the
   novelty of being in space lasts. But after a while, the blush of
   excitement inevitably fades, and astronauts will begin to long for the
   comforts of home. For example, the nose-tickling bubbles of a
   refreshing soft drink or a frothy beer after work -- these simple
   pleasures that we take for granted on Earth could do wonders for morale
   among long-term space travelers.

   July 25, 2001 Space Seeds Return to Earth Seed pods from a commercial
   gardening experiment aboard the International Space Station are back on
   our planet. The far-out pods will liven up Earth-bound biology
   classrooms and may hold the key to long-term habitation of space.

   May 7, 2001 SPD Displayed at American Ceramic Society April 23-25 The
   conference, was held in Indianapolis, Indiana and covered the basic
   science, processing and applications of whitewares, engineering and
   electronic ceramics, refractories and cements, glass and optical
   materials, and art ceramics.

   April 30, 2001 Gardening in Space May Bring Us Another Step Closer to
   Understanding Plant Life The Wisconsin Center for Space Automation and
   Robotics at the University of Wisconsin-Madison has developed a series
   of plant growth units dedicated to plant biotechnology research
   sponsored by industry. The plant growth units are designed especially
   to operate in the microgravity environment created as the Space Station
   orbits Earth.

   April 17, 2001 Antibiotic Experiment Heading for Space Station The
   University of Colorado at Boulder-based BioServe Space Technologies
   Center is sending an intriguing biomedical experiment to the
   International Space Station April 19 to test the effects of long-term
   weightlessness on antibiotic production.

   April 6, 2001 INTERPHEX Trade Show Opens New Horizons Space Product
   Development arrived in the cradle of liberty, and brought the message
   of the new revolution in space research and development to a diverse
   but interested audience.

   April 6, 2001 National Manufacturing Week Takes Industry To The Stars
   The NASA display at National Manufacturing Week took industry on a
   journey to the stars, both literally and figuratively.

   April 6, 2001 InfoTech Pharma A Success SPD participation in the
   InfoTech Pharma trade show, the World Congress for biopharmaceutical
   information technology, as a rousing success. Interest in commercial
   space activities was high, and it proved to be an interesting,
   educational, and fun time for all the participants

   April 2, 2001 SHOT Signs Space Act Agreement with NASA Space Hardware
   Optimization Technology Inc. (SHOT) of Greenville, Ind., signed an
   agreement March 19 with NASA that allows the company to conduct flight
   experiments for commercial customers on the agency's Space Shuttles.

   News Archives
