http://www.safecities.gov/results.cfm?ID=43

   REFRESH(200 sec): file://localhost/


   Meet the
   SafeCities Network

   Find Your State

   Home
   SafeCities Logo

Measuring Results

   Measure Results


   CRIME MAPS AND STATISTICS

   Innovative law enforcement agencies are applying cutting-edge
   information technologies such as crime mapping to drive management
   decisions and to create real partnerships with communities to prevent
   and reduce crime.


   Bureau of Justice Statistics

   The Bureau of Justice Statistics (BJS), a component of the Office of
   Justice Programs in the US Department of Justice, is the United States'
   primary source for criminal justice statistics. BJS collects, analyzes,
   publishes, and disseminates information on crime, criminal offenders,
   victims of crime, and the operation of justice systems at all levels of
   government.

   Crime Mapping Research Center at the National Institute of Justice

   Established in 1997, the goal of the Center is the promotion, research,
   evaluation, development, and dissemination of GIS (geographic
   information systems) technology and the spatial analysis of crime.

   Crime Maps on the Web: Chicago, Illinois

   Chicago's ICAM - - Information Collection for Automated Mappingis an
   easy-to-use computerized mapping program designed to help Chicago
   police officers analyze and work with the city's communities to solve
   neighborhood crime problems. With ICAM, beat officers and other police
   personnel can pull up timely, accurate maps of beat, sector, district,
   or citywide crime incidents, analyzed by time of day and day of week.
   This "snapshot" of what is going on helps officers look for trends and
   hot spots; it then lets them work together with community members to
   develop responses to problems. The system also provides maps that are
   shared with Neighborhood Watch, Ameritech Cellular Phone Patrols, and
   other community groups.

   Crime Maps on the Web: Evansville, Indiana

   The crime information page, a project of The Evansville Courier & Press
   is designed to alert citizens to crime in the city. This page features
   a live police scanner and weekly crime information maps. Citizens can
   also click on a link to hear live transmissions on the public police &
   fire frequencies in Vanderburgh County, Indiana.

   Crime Maps on the Web: Sacramento, CA

   The Sacramento Police Department posts crime maps and statistics by
   neighborhood on the web and lets citizens file crime and commendation
   reports on-line.

   Crime Maps on the Web: San Diego, California

   The San Diego Police Department has used computerized crime mapping
   since 1989 as part of its successful crime reduction strategy. Its
   earliest crime mapping efforts were simple snapshots of criminal
   activity with little analysis. In 1994, however, the department
   reorganized itself around the concept of neighborhood problem-solving
   and delineated patrol beats by neighborhood rather than by precinct.
   This proactive strategy of neighborhood problem-solving takes direct
   aim at the elements that contribute to criminal activity by encouraging
   officers to look beyond an individual crime to the underlying causes of
   crime.

   Crime Maps on the Web: Tempe, Arizona

   The Tempe Police Department posts crime maps and statistics by
   neighborhood on its web site.

   Fresno, CA Maps of Sex Offenders

   Fresno, CA Police Department maps the location of know sex offenders in
   relationship to schools. Citizens have an easy-to-use interface that
   pulls up information that could affect the safety of their families.

   Internet Resources for Crime Mapping

   50 Internet resources related to crime mapping, including Web sites
   displaying crime maps, GIS and analysis software, hot spot
   identification methods, sources of census data, and virtual reality
   viewers. From the National Institute of Justice Report, Mapping Crime:
   Principle and Practice.

   Mapping Crime

   This National Institite of Justice report, Mapping Crime: Principle and
   Practice presents a broad approach and addresses the kinds of questions
   crime mapping can answer and how it can answer them. More than 110
   colorful maps illustrate how geographic information systems GIS) are
   used to analyze crime problems. The appendix lists 50 Internet
   resources related to crime mapping, including Web sites displaying
   crime maps, GIS and analysis software, hot spot identification methods,
   sources of census data, and virtual reality viewers.

   Mapping Out Crime

   This reportthe work of the Department of Justice and the National
   Partnership for Reinventing Governmentdescribes what some of the most
   innovative law enforcement agencies in the country are doing. They are
   applying cutting-edge information technologies such as crime mapping to
   drive management decisions and to create real partnerships with
   communities to prevent and reduce crime.

   San Diego Police Department Crime Mapping


   UCR 1999 Preliminary Annual Report

   According to preliminary data from the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
   serious crime continued to fall in 1999, marking the eighth consecutive
   annual decrease nationwide. The data collected by the FBI's Uniform
   Crime Reporting (UCR) Program show a 7-percent decline in reported
   serious crime from the 1998 totals.

   Text Only | News | Contact Us | Privacy Statement | Home
