http://nvl.nist.gov/pub/ois/

   NIST Technology Services

                       Office of Information Services
                          NIST Division Number 250

                          OIS Organizational Chart

   The Office of Information Services (OIS) provides policy development,
   implementation, and management oversight for the operational programs
   of the Electronic Information and Publications Program and the Research
   Library and Information Program. OIS, through its programs, is
   responsible for creating, maintaining, and disseminating a NIST
   knowledge base which supports the research and administrative needs
   required to fulfill the scientific, engineering, and technical mission
   of NIST in support of the United States industrial and economic
   communities.
   The NIST knowledge base is supported through the activities of the NIST
   Research Library, which includes a science, engineering and technology
   research collection of over 200,000 volumes and current subscriptions
   to over 1,500 scholarly journals, as well as other research materials
   in microform and in electronic form. Access to these and other
   appropriate resources is available onsite or remotely at the desk-top
   through the NIST Virtual Library.
   The NIST knowledge base is supported through a staff of expert research
   consultants. The research consultants have a specialized knowledge of
   scientific and technical literature in all forms, and maintain a keen
   awareness of and a familiarity with the research and informational
   tools available through electronic means.
   The NIST knowledge base is supported through activities which provide a
   peer review process for the results of the NIST research and
   developmental programs through the Washington Editorial Review Board
   (WERB) and the Boulder Editorial Review Board (BERB), and prepare these
   for publication in print and electronic form as NIST publications or in
   other scholarly publications, through the Electronic Information and
   Publications Program.
   The NIST knowledge base is supported through activities which preserve
   and disseminate the history of NIST's, and its predecessor National
   Bureau of Standards' (NBS) achievements and contributions to science
   and technology through the NIST Museum Program, a NIST Oral History
   Project, and NIST History Project.
   More is available on these OIS programs:
   EIPP Electronic Information and Publications Program
   RLIP Research Library and Information Progam
   An Office of Information Services Directory is also available.
   Mary-Deirdre Coraggio, Director
   mary-deirdre.coraggio@nist.gov

NVL Home Page | NVL Help | TESIS Home Page | Search | Comments &
                                                                                  Questions

    National Institute of Standards and Technology Virtual Library (NVL)
                       Office of Information Services

                          NIST Centennial Web Site

       NIST is an agency of the  U.S. Commerce Department's Technology
                               Administration
                           Revised: Jun. 27, 2001

                                NVL Webmaster
                              Privacy Statement
                                 Disclaimer
