http://bisc.jpl.nasa.gov/public/acknow.htm

   topbanner.jpg (28031 bytes)

   Home

   WITS for FIDO
   WITS for Polar Lander
   WITS for Sojourner
   Awards and Publications
   Contact
   The Team
   Acknowledgements

   Sponsors

                            WITS Acknowledgements

   The WITS team would like to thank the sponsors and science advisors who
   have helped to make WITS possible. Specifically, we thank the
   following.
     * NASA Robotics
          + Dave Lavery: NASA Telerobotics Program manager who sponsored
            the initial research version of WITS in 1996 and 1997; Program
            Executive for Solar System Exploration, Advanced Technology
            and Mission Studies Division/SM, NASA Office of Space Science
            who sponsored the implementation of WITS for flight operations
            in the Mars Exploration Technology program in 1998 and 1999.
          + Chuck Weisbin JPL Robotics and Mars Exploration Technolgy
            Program manager, and then NASA Surface Systems Thrust Area
            manager, supporting the development of WITS.
          + Samad Hayati: Task manager for the Long Range Science Rover
            task in the NASA Telerobotics Program in which the research
            version of WITS was developed from 1996 through 1998; JPL
            Robotics and Mars Exploration Technolgy Program manager in
            1998 and 1999 which supported the development of WITS in the
            Mars Exploration Technology Program.
          + Paul Schenker: Task manager for the ET-Rover task in the Mars
            Exploration Technology program in which the core mission
            version of WITS was developed both for commanding the FIDO
            (Field Integration, Development, and Operations) rover and for
            use in the Mars Polar Lander mission.
     * TMOD, Telecommunication and Mission Operations Directorate
          + Jay Wyatt: TMOD Technology Program Mission Services Technology
            Program manager, who is sponsoring the Internet-based
            distributed collaboration and Internet security technologies
            in WITS.
          + Robert Wilson: Mission Planning and Execution Work Area
            manager in the TMOD Technology Program Mission Services
            Technology Program, who is sponsoring the Internet-based
            distributed collaboration and Internet security technologies
            in WITS.
     * SBIR Program
          + Patricia McGuire: JPL SBIR Program Manager sponsoring the IA
            Tech, Inc. and Charles River Analytics SBIR contracts which
            have contributed technologies to WITS.
     * Science Advisors
          + Ray Arvidson, Washington University: Lead science advisor
            during the development of the research version of WITS for the
            Long Range Science Rover task in 1996 and 1997; Lead science
            advisor for the development of the mission version of WITS for
            the FIDO rover and Mars Polar Lander mission in 1998 and 1999.
          + Steve Squyers: Advisor for mission requirements for WITS for
            the FIDO rover in 1998 and 1999.
          + Jim Bell: Advisor for image visualization in WITS used in the
            mission version for FIDO and Mars Polar Lander in 1998 and
            1999.


   These pages are maintained by Jeff Norris.
