http://safety.fhwa.dot.gov/fourthlevel/pro_res_srlr_faq.htm

   [shim.gif] [shim.gif] [shim.gif] [shim.gif] [shim.gif] [shim.gif]
   [shim.gif] [shim.gif] [shim.gif] [shim.gif]
   Header [shim.gif]
   Safety [prof_res_white.gif] Home SiteMap Search [shim.gif]
   Stop Red Light Running FAQ [shim.gif]
   What's New

   Professional Resources
   Programs
   Facts and Data
   Media Center

   Community Resources
   Programs

   Road User Resources
   Programs
   Media Center
   News and Events
   Press Room
   Newsletter
   Dots [prof_res_white_four.gif] [shim.gif]
   Knowledge [LINK]-[USEMAP:resource_eng.gif] Communication [white_3.gif]
   [shim.gif]
   List [shim.gif]

   Stop Red Light Running Logo Each year, more than 1.8 million
   intersection crashes occur. In 2000, 106,000 crashes, 89,000 injuries
   and about 1,036 deaths were attributed to red light running.

   Questions and Answers about the FHWA's Stop Red Light Running
   Campaign / Common Questions and Answers About Traffic Signals
   Red Light Cameras Questions & Answers

Questions and Answers about the FHWA's Stop Red Light Running Campaign

   1. What is the Stop Red Light Running (RLR) Campaign and how does it
   work?

   The Stop RLR Campaign consists of two phases. The Federal Highway
   Administration started the Stop Red Light Running Campaign (phase 1) as
   a comprehensive safety outreach program that combined public education
   with aggressive enforcement. Increasing awareness of roadway-related
   safety issues serves to enhance safety for the motoring public, which
   translates into health and economic benefit for the entire country. The
   Federal Highway Administration created Stop Red Light Running in 1995,
   as a community-based safety program. The campaign provided a total of
   $637,200 in seed money to 31 communities--these grants ranged from
   $7,500 to $40,000 per site. This money was provided on a one time only
   basis, and funding for further RLR Programs such as this one are no
   longer available through FHWA.

   On April 30, 1998, Secretary of Transportation Rodney E. Slater
   announced the start of the second phase of Stop RLR campaign, in
   partnership with the Daimler Chrysler Corporation and the American
   Trauma Society (ATS). As a result of this three-way partnership, trauma
   centers throughout the country started local safety outreach campaigns
   against red light running. The ATS, which is based in Washington, D.C.,
   has nearly 200 trauma centers across the country. Each participating
   trauma center will have a dedicated campaign coordinator to work with
   local law enforcement, engineering and safety professionals to promote
   safety messages against red light running.

   2. How did the Federal Highway Administration determine the Stop Red
   Light Running Campaign was necessary?

   In 1992, FHWA conducted several focus groups consisting of law
   enforcement officers, engineers, and adult drivers to determine which
   outreach efforts FHWA should be focusing on. RLR was identified in
   these meetings as something that needed attention.

   3. How many localities were in the first pilot?

   31 localities were in the first pilot. However, since 1995, communities
   and organizations from around the country requested materials and
   instructions to conduct the campaign, without the support of federal
   funds. In addition to the 31 grant sites and 22 communities that
   received only materials, community organizations interested in
   implementing the campaign on their own have requested Strategic
   Planning Guides (SPG).

   4. What is the Strategic Planning Guide?

   The Strategic Planning Guide (SPG) was provided to the 31 initial Stop
   RLR Campaign sites. It is a step-by-step guide (including public
   service announcements for radio and television) to conducting a RLR
   public information and education campaign.

   5. How were communities chosen?

   The communities chosen were volunteers. In addition, they had to meet
   two criteria: (1) the targeted traffic signal system had to be
   functioning correctly (i.e. be correctly timed) and (2) the community
   had to have crash data of the "before" condition.

   6. What has been the impact of the pilot Stop Red Light Running
   Prevention campaigns?

   Phase 1 of the Stop RLR campaign resulted in a reduction of upwards of
   50% in the number of red light running incidents and a decrease of up
   to 40% in the number of crashes in the communities that provided
   follow-up information after their campaigns were completed.

   7. How long does the FHWA plan to continue this red-light running
   prevention effort?

   The FHWA developed the comprehensive campaign and provided funding in
   1995 to 31 communities. While that phase of the campaign is completed,
   the partnership with the America Trauma Society is an example of
   continuing effort. However, no additional Federal funding will be
   provided in the form of grants.

   8. Are Federal funds available to help address red light running
   problems?

   Federal funds are available for the re-engineering and operational
   improvements to intersections and traffic control signals and for the
   education and enforcement elements, as well. The National Highway
   System (NHS) and Surface Transportation Program (STP) are available for
   engineering improvements on designated "Federal-aid" roadways; the
   Hazard Elimination Program funds (over $350 million nationally) are
   available for any roadway safety problem. The Section 402 funds are
   available for public information and education, as well as enforcement
   activities. Funds are provided to the States. Contact your state
   department of transportation or Governor's Highway Safety
   Representative for more information.

   9. How important an issue is the prevention of red light running and
   where does it fit in terms of the government's transportation
   priorities?

   Safety is the Department of Transportation's number one priority and
   preventing red light running is extremely important to us. Each year,
   more than two million crashes occur at intersections resulting in more
   than a million injuries and more than 9,000 deaths.

   10. In addition to increased enforcement, what else is required to
   prevent RLR?

   Ultimately, we hope that personal responsibility will motivate drivers
   to stop running red lights. Fear of injury and punishment can only go
   so far. To be truly effective, a campaign such as this should instill
   in people the desire to comply with traffic signals because it is the
   right thing to do.

   11. What groups can I contact for more information about solving the
   red light running problem?

   There are several groups that are working to solve the red light
   running problem:

   The National Organization for Traffic and Intersection Safety (NOTIS),
   an offshoot of the Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety
   (http://www.saferoads.org), was created to advance traffic intersection
   safety through the enactment of red light running photo-enforcement
   enabling legislation and other appropriate measures. The contact for
   NOTIS is John Moulden, at (301) 681-8989.

   For information on the Stop Red Light Running partnership with the
   American Trauma Society contact Harry Teter (301-420-4189), Executive
   Director of the American Trauma Society.

   For information on funding red light running cameras and red light
   running public education campaigns, contact your state department of
   transportation or your state governor's highway safety representative.

   Common Questions and Answers About Traffic Signals / Red Light Cameras
   Questions & Answers

   Back To Top


Common Questions and Answers About Traffic Signals

   1. Why do people run "red" lights?

   For many reasons, such as: they are in a hurry, the signal is poorly
   timed, the red wait time is too long, limited visibility of traffic
   signals, and driver inattention or disrespect for traffic signals and
   laws. If drivers are ignoring traffic signals due to improper signal
   timing, visibility, or faulty signals, a public education and
   enforcement campaign cannot do much to alleviate the situation. Thus a
   first step in the Stop Red Light Running (RLR) prevention campaign is
   to analyze the traffic signal installations and timing to insure that
   they are operating properly.

   2. What does a "red" light mean?

   The meaning varies slightly from State to State. Frequently as in the
   District of Columbia, a red light means to come to a complete stop
   before you reach the intersection, stop line or crosswalk. Remain
   stopped as long as the light is red unless turns are allowed on red.

   3. When may you turn on red?

   You may turn right on a red light only after coming to a full stop
   unless a posted sign states "no turn on red."

   4. What does a "yellow" light mean?

   The meaning varies slightly from State to State. Frequently, as in the
   District of Columbia a steady yellow light or arrow warns that the
   light is about to change. If you have not entered the intersection, you
   should come to a stop, if you can do so safely. If you are already in
   the intersection, you should continue moving in order to clear it.
   Speeding up to beat the red light could cause a crash.

   5. What does a "flashing yellow light" mean?

   The flashing yellow light means "Warning: Proceed with Caution."

   6. What does a "flashing red light" mean?

   The flashing red light should be treated as a STOP sign. Driver should
   come to a complete stop, then proceed when it is clear.

   7. Does a driver have to signal when stopping or turning?

   Yes, a driver must give a signal when stopping or turning. The signal
   may be a mechanically or electrically operated signal or a hand/arm
   signal given by the driver. Signals should be given at least 100 feet
   ahead of the turning point.

   8. A bicyclist may go through red lights and stop signs when it is safe
   to do so: True or False?

   False!!

   Questions and Answers about the FHWA's Stop Red Light Running Campaign
    / Red Light Cameras Questions & Answers

   Back To Top

Red Light Cameras Questions & Answers
[Source: 1998, Insurance Institute for Highway Safety,
23-Nov-98][ver.3/12/99]

   General

   Red light cameras can help communities enforce traffic laws by
   automatically photographing vehicles whose drivers run red lights. A
   red light camera system is connected to the traffic signal and to
   sensors buried in the pavement at the crosswalk or stop line. The
   system continuously monitors the traffic signal, and the camera itself
   is triggered by any vehicle passing over the sensors above a pre-set
   minimum speed and a specified time after the signal has turned red. A
   second photograph is taken that typically shows the red light violator
   in the intersection. The camera records the date, time of day, and time
   elapsed since the beginning of the red signal and the speed of the
   vehicle. Electronic flash produces clear images of vehicles under all
   light and weather conditions. Tickets typically are sent by mail to
   owners of violating vehicles, based on review of photographic evidence.

   What is red light running?

   A violation occurs when a motorist deliberately enters an intersection
   after the signal light has turned red. Motorists inadvertently in an
   intersection when the signal changes to red when waiting to turn, for
   example, aren't red light runners.

   Is red light running a big problem?

   Drivers who run red lights are responsible for an estimated 260,000
   crashes each year, of which approximately 750 are fatal. On a national
   basis, fatal motor vehicle crashes at traffic signals increased 19
   percent between 1992 and 1996, far outpacing the 6 percent rise in all
   other fatal crashes. Red light running is a big part of the problem.
   Institute researchers determined that during this time period there
   were 3,753 red light running crashes, rising from 702 in 1992 to 809 in
   1996, a 15 percent increase.

   Running red lights and other traffic controls like stop and yield signs
   is the most frequent type of urban crash, Institute research shows.
   Researchers studied police reports of crashes on public roads in four
   urban areas during 1990 and 1991. Of 13 crash types researchers
   identified, running traffic controls accounted for 22 percent of all
   crashes. Among crashes involving running traffic controls, 24 percent
   involved running red lights. The same study shows that motorists are
   more likely to be injured in crashes involving red light running than
   in other types of crashes. Occupant injuries occurred in 45 percent of
   the red light running crashes studied, compared with 30 percent for
   other crash types.

   Isn't conventional police enforcement sufficient?

   Enforcing traffic laws in dense urban areas by traditional means poses
   special difficulties for police, who in most cases must follow a
   violating vehicle through a red light to stop it. This can endanger
   motorists and pedestrians as well as officers, and police can't be
   everywhere at once. Communities don't have the resources to allow
   police to patrol intersections as often as would be needed to ticket
   all motorists who run red lights. The cameras allow police to focus on
   other enforcement needs.

   What safety benefits do red light cameras provide?

   They've been shown to reduce red light violations and intersection
   crashes. A recent Institute study of a program in Oxnard, California,
   shows that red light running violations dropped a total of 42 percent
   after cameras were introduced at nine intersections, which includes a
   similar decline at intersections that weren't equipped with them.
   Another study showed violations declined about 40 percent in Fairfax,
   Virginia after one year of camera enforcement. Victoria, Australia,
   began using red light cameras at traffic signal intersections in 1983
   and posted signs alerting motorists of their presence. A subsequent
   report by the Road Traffic Authority found a 32 percent decrease in
   right-angle collisions and a 10 percent reduction in injuries after the
   cameras were installed.

   Who runs red lights?

   The Institute created a profile of red light runners by studying driver
   behavior at an Arlington, Virginia, intersection equipped with a red
   light camera. The study compared red light runners to motorists who had
   an opportunity to run a red light but didn't. As a group, red light
   runners were younger, less likely to use safety belts, had poorer
   driving records, and drove smaller and older vehicles than drivers who
   stopped for red lights. Red light runners were more than three times as
   likely to have multiple speeding convictions on their driver records.
   No gender differences were found between violators and drivers who
   didn't run red lights.

   Do the cameras photograph every vehicle passing through an
   intersection?

   No. The cameras typically are set so only those vehicles that enter an
   intersection after the light has turned red are photographed. Drivers
   who enter on yellow and find themselves in an intersection when the
   light changes to red aren't photographed. This technology is intended
   to catch vehicles driven by motorists who intentionally enter an
   intersection well after the signal has turned red.

   Does someone review the photographs before motorists are ticketed?

   Yes. Trained police officers or other officials review every picture to
   verify vehicle information and ensure that the vehicle is in violation.
   Tickets are mailed to vehicle owners only in cases where it's clear the
   vehicle ran the red light. Do red light cameras violate motorists'
   privacy? No. Driving is a regulated activity on public roads. By
   obtaining a license, motorists agree to abide by certain rules - to
   obey traffic signals, for example. Neither the law nor common sense
   suggests drivers shouldn't be observed on the road or have their
   violations documented. In addition, red light camera systems can be
   designed to photograph only a vehicle's rear license plate and not
   vehicle occupants, depending on local laws.

   Are special laws needed to allow localities to use red light cameras to
   cite violators?

   In order for localities to use the cameras for law enforcement
   purposes, laws must authorize enforcement agencies to cite red light
   violators by mail. The legislation also must make the vehicle owner
   responsible for the ticket, establishing a presumption that the
   registered owner is the vehicle driver at the time of the offense. Red
   light cameras are currently permitted in 11 states: Arizona,
   California, Colorado, Delaware, Hawaii, Illinois, Maryland, New York,
   North Carolina, Virginia, and Washington, and the District of Columbia.
   Violations photographed by red light cameras are most commonly treated
   in two ways: as traffic violations or as the equivalent of parking
   tickets, depending on state law. If, as in New York, red light camera
   violations are treated like parking citations, the law can make
   registered vehicle owners responsible without regard to who is driving
   at the time of the offense. Virginia makes red light camera violations
   a civil offense like New York, but unlike New York, the state allows
   registered owners to avoid citations by filing affidavits swearing they
   weren't driving when the violations occurred.

   Which type of red light law - owner or driver liability - is preferred?

   The "owner liability" approach is preferred for several reasons. First,
   rear photography of the vehicle's tag and trunk area, only, is required
   under an owner liability law. This feature raises much less of a "big
   brother"/ privacy concern than does the frontal vehicle photograph
   required in a driver liability statute. Second, according to the IIHS,
   the current experience with frontal photography finds a very large loss
   of citations simply because police cannot clearly identify the driver.
   Glare, dirty windshields, sun visors, missing front plates, even
   deliberate concealment attempts by drivers have hindered driver
   identification such that the majority (over 60%) of offenders escape
   punishment. In addition, motorcycles do not have front plates and,
   therefore, are effectively exempt from enforcement. Third, about 80% of
   vehicles observed running red lights were driven by their registered
   owner or someone in their household, according to the IIHS. (Another
   10% are corporate or government vehicles.) Thus, registered owner
   liability does effectively target the driving population. Finally, it
   appears that the deterrent effect of photo-enforcement results more
   from the threat of being ticketed than from the penalty imposed. The
   IIHS has reported that the red light enforcement programs in Oxnard,
   CA.(driver liability, high fine, license points) and Fairfax, VA.,
   (owner liability, low fine, no points) produced similar results during
   the first year of operation. The first year reduction in red light
   violation rate in Oxnard was 42%, and 44% in Fairfax, VA.

   Are red light camera programs expensive?

   A red light camera costs about $50,000. Installation and sensors cost
   about $5,000. A single red light camera can be used at several
   locations once the sites are equipped to work with the camera, allowing
   communities to move cameras between sites without drivers knowing which
   ones are active at any given time. Startup costs can be offset by fines
   paid by violators, savings from crashes prevented, and by freeing
   police to focus on other enforcement efforts.

   Does the American public support the use of red light cameras?

   The U.S. public strongly supports the use of red light cameras. A 1998
   Lou Harris poll sponsored by Advocates for Highway & Auto Safety found
   that 65% of Americans favored adoption of legislation to allow use of
   red light cameras. Two 1995 surveys sponsored by the Institute revealed
   that nationwide, 66 percent of 1,006 people polled said they favor the
   use of red light cameras, compared with 28 percent who opposed. A 1996
   survey by the Insurance Research Council found that the highest support
   for red light cameras was in large cities, where 83 percent of
   respondents supported their use. Strong support is also found in
   communities where the cameras are used; recent red light camera
   programs in Oxnard, California and Fairfax, Virginia, were supported by
   80 percent of residents polled.

   Do major U.S. cities use red light cameras?

   They're used for law enforcement in New York City; Sacramento, San
   Diego, and San Francisco, California; Denver, Colorado; and Charlotte,
   North Carolina, in addition to many smaller communities.

   What other countries use red light cameras?

   Photographic detection devices are used extensively in many other
   countries including Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Germany,
   Israel, the Netherlands, Singapore, South Africa, Switzerland, Taiwan,
   and the United Kingdom.

   Questions and Answers about the FHWA's Stop Red Light Running
   Campaign / Common Questions and Answers About Traffic Signals
   Back To Top
   [shim.gif]
   [prof_res_white_two.gif] [shim.gif]
   [prof_res_white_three.gif] Dots Safety Logo [shim.gif]
   FHWA

                   Home | About Us | Contact Us | Feedback
        Department of Transportation - Federal Highway Administration

   [shim.gif]
