http://forms.cit.nih.gov/news.html

                                    NEWS

                             Return to Home Page


   ELECTRONIC COMMERCE ENHANCEMENT ACT

     The Electronic Commerce Enhancement Act has come one step closer to
     becoming a bill. If this passes, government agencies will have 18
     months to become paperless. As a result, many ICs at NIH are
     evaluating software packages for forms and work flow.

   SOFTWARE UPGRADE

     We have upgraded our Claris FileMaker Pro forms to version 4.0
     around the first of the year. Version 3.0 users should not have to
     upgrade. 3.0 will work well with 4.0. If you have problems though,
     you will need to upgrade. If you have not yet upgraded and are
     desperate for a 2.0 or 2.1 version form call TASC and x4DCRT. With
     difficulty, they can e-mail you a copy temporarily but you MUST
     upgrade because the 2.0 and 2.1 forms WILL be destroyed SOON.

   BUNDLED FORMS

     The Users' Group is now releasing forms we call "Bundled Forms". We
     have currently only created these bundled forms in FileMaker Pro.
     They are groups of forms which are commonly used by persons
     performing a particular function. The benefits are that:
     * Data is only entered once
     * Databases can be created and maintained
     * Users are reminded that forms need to be submitted

   These forms are NOT for the novice user of FileMaker Pro. Instructions
       are included in the beginning of the forms. Read them carefully.

   FORM FLOW by JetForm

     The JetForm version 6.0 due to be released in the first quarter of
     1998 will combine Delrina FormFlow and JetForm for the first time.

   PATIENT FORMS

     Forms containing patient information will NOT be placed on this Web
     Site. These forms are provided by the Clinical Center, Medical
     Records Office and should only be placed in the patient's official
     Medical Record file. If you have created a form to store patient
     information, you may be violating the Privacy Act. Please seek
     guidance from the Clinical Center, Medical Records Office, 496-0827.
