http://nps.ars.usda.gov/jtt/v22n3p65/

           The Transfer of Public Science to Patented Technology:

                    A Case Study in Agricultural Science
                      by J. S. Perko and Francis Narin
                             CHI Research, Inc.
                             10 White Horse Pike
                          Haddon Heights, NJ 08035
                                609-546-0600
                              FAX: 609-546-9633
                     E-Mail: CHIResearch@compuserve.com

   [This document was published in the Journal of Technology Transfer Vol.
   22 (3) 65-72, 1997 and is based on a study performed for the
   Agricultural Research Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture by
   CHI Research, Inc.]

   Abstract

   One of the most difficult challenges in technology transfer is to
   measure the movement of knowledge from basic scientific research to
   industrial technology. This paper will report on a study of the linkage
   between science supported by the Agricultural Research Service (ARS)
   and patented technology. This study traced the citations from U.S.
   patents issued in 1987-88 and 1993-94 to scientific research papers
   linked to the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). The number of
   patent citations to ARS papers, and to other USDA-supported papers has
   increased four-fold over the six-year period. A distinct difference
   also exists between the patent-cited ARS papers and patent-cited
   extramural USDA-supported papers: ARS papers are in more agriculturally
   related journals, while the extramural papers were in more basic and
   biomedical journals. USDA-supported papers were overwhelmingly cited by
   U.S.-invented patents (in a patent system in which half the patents are
   foreign-invented). In the primary field of ARS papers (Biology), they
   are cited much more often by patents than Biology papers from any other
   publishing organization. Since the publishing organizations and support
   sources of all the papers cited in these patents have now been
   identified, we can study the transfer of scientific results to patented
   technology by institution, by agency, or by any other category of
   patent or paper holder.

   I. Introduction.

   Many scientists and economists believe that public science is a driving
   force behind high technology and economic growth. They also believe
   that the transfer of publicly supported knowledge to industry is an
   important part of the technology transfer process. For purposes of this
   paper, "public science" means scientific research done in academic and
   governmental research institutions, and supported by governmental and
   charitable agencies. The core of this paper is a case study of the
   links between science supported by a governmental agency (the U.S.
   Department of Agriculture (USDA), particularly the Agricultural
   Research Service (ARS)) and technology represented by patents issued by
   the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office (USPTO).

   We study the links between science and technology by examining the
   references to scientific and engineering papers on the front pages of
   U.S. patents. These science references are contained among the larger
   set of "non-patent references" (NPRs) that appear there. NPRs are a
   mixed set of references to journal papers, meetings, books, and many
   non-scientific sources, such as industrial standards, technical
   disclosures, engineering manuals, and every other conceivable kind of
   published material.

   References to previously issued patents and non-patent references both
   comprise the "prior art" of the patent. These "references cited" on
   U.S. patents are a fundamental requirement of patent law. To be issued,
   a patent must satisfy three general criteria: it must be useful; it
   must be novel; and it must not be obvious. The novelty requirement is
   the main factor leading to the references that appear on the front page
   of the U.S. patent. It is the responsibility of the patent applicant
   and his attorney, along with the patent examiner, to identify, through
   various references cited, all of the important prior art on which the
   patent improves. These references are chosen and screened by patent
   examiners, who are "not called upon to cite all references that are
   available, but only the best." ("Manual of Patent Examining
   Procedures," Section 904.02)

   Scientific journal papers represent the distillation and refinement of
   months or years of work. Unlike less formal means of scientific
   communication that also appear in patent NPRs, journal papers are
   usually reviewed by the authors peers and scrutinized by editors before
   publication is permitted. Also filtered out of them by the authors are
   the dead ends, mere progress reports, and inconsequential negative
   results. Consequently, scientific and engineering journal papers are
   the most authoritative records of research. Databases such as the
   Science Citation Index (SCI) contain detailed records of these papers
   and citations to them from other papers, allowing detailed analysis.

   All this suggests that scientific and engineering papers cited by
   patents are a unique source of information on the transfer of
   scientific results to patented innovations. For example, universities
   and government agencies can identify potential technologies and
   companies with which they can collaborate in cooperative research and
   development agreements. If they discover they are contributing their
   scientific expertise to a technology, they may move to benefit more
   directly from their efforts by lending their scientific expertise
   directly to the development effort in the private sector.

   This case study is a good illustration of the various insights one gets
   from studying this patent-to-paper linkage. Among the main results of
   the USDA study are the following: 1) Citations by patents to
   USDA-supported papers have more than quadrupled within six years; by
   comparison, citations from patents to all U.S. papers have increased
   about half that; 2) Collaboration between ARS and extramural
   institutions, mostly universities, has increased, and cited paper
   authorship is split evenly between ARS and extramural; 3) Patent-cited
   ARS research is predominantly applied, while cited extramural research
   is more basic; 4) USDA-supported papers are preferentially cited by
   U.S. inventors; 5) For at least one year (1988) ARS is the leader in
   patent-cited biological research, with ARS intramural papers cited 70
   percent more than average for the biology papers of all U.S.
   universities and organizations.

   Following sections devoted to Methodology and the Results of the study,
   the Conclusions will examine the possible use of such results as a
   quantitative indication of the transfer of knowledge from science to
   technology.

   II. Methodology.

   As part of a series of research contracts and grants with the National
   Science Foundation (NSF), CHI Research, Inc., (CHI) has matched journal
   references found on the front pages of U.S. patents to bibliographic
   data in the NSFs Science Literature Indicators Database (SLID). This is
   a data set based on the SCI and maintained at CHI for the National
   Science Foundation. Through this, we could positively identify most
   scientific and engineering papers cited by patents. (Some references
   had insufficient data to match to the SCI, typically about 25 percent.)
   These matched papers form the basic data set.

   On the 398,000 patents issued in the years 1987-88 and 1993-94, there
   were 430,000 NPRs. Of these NPRs, about 242,000 are science
   referencescitations to scientific journal papers, scientific meetings,
   and other scientific publications. About 175,000 of these science
   references are to papers published in the 4000 journals covered by the
   SCI. CHI unified these 175,000 into a standard journal name, volume,
   page, and year format.

   From here we confine ourselves to papers published in an eleven-year
   window before patent issuance date. There were 40,000 citations to
   papers published in 1975-85 cited by patents issued in 1987-88, and
   104,000 to papers published in 1981-91 cited by patents issued in
   1993-94. This window covers 80 percent of the citations. We then
   matched these 144,000 citations to our SLID database, and successfully
   identified 109,000 (76 percent) of the citations. Most of the unmatched
   references were incomplete or incorrect, with misspellings, wrong page
   numbers, etc.

   The next step identified the author addresses on the papers. The SLID
   contains a code for each author institution, standardized for more than
   3500 major U.S. publishing institutions.

   The final step identified the agencies supporting the U.S.-authored
   papers. CHI staff searched libraries for the 45,000 matched papers that
   had at least one U.S.author, and that were cited by 1987-88 and 1993-94
   patents. They found about 95 percent of them, and tabulated all the
   U.S. and foreign research support information contained in the
   acknowledgements. Of these 95 percent, about 63 percent acknowledged
   some source of external support, most frequently in academic papers.
   Papers with authors in governmental agencies and the private sector
   seldom have funding acknowledgements, since most of their funding is
   internal.

   Several methodological points are important. The first is data
   complexity. One can count the data in a variety of ways: a single paper
   can be cited by several patents and a single patent can cite many
   papers. In addition, the papers have multiple authors from multiple
   institutions, supported by more than one agency. All this results in
   various ways to count and present data.

   Another is the limitation to science references on the front page of
   the patent, ignoring references in the text of the patent. The front
   page references should be the most important, since the patent
   examiners rely specifically on them to establish the patents novelty,
   as mentioned in the Introduction. Further, from a practical standpoint,
   these text references are extremely difficult to extract, as they are
   scattered about an enormous amount of text. CHI did a brief study to
   check how representative are the front page science references. (Narin,
   Rosen, and Olivastro 1988) It showed much similarity between the front
   page and text references. We therefore assume that the front page
   references are sufficiently representative. Indeed, the use of them
   alone would underestimate the contribution of science to the patents.

   From the linkage database of papers cited by patents issued in 1987-88
   and 1993-94, we extracted those that acknowledge some USDA funding
   support. In addition, we identified those papers with at least one USDA
   intramural author and added them to the data set. More than 90 percent
   of the intramural papers were written by ARS researchers. These are
   not, however, the complete set of all agricultural science papers cited
   by U.S. patents, nor the complete set of all agricultural patents
   issued in these years. Our data are limited to patents citing
   USDA-related papers.

   CHI is currently preparing a paper with a comprehensive analysis of the
   linkage between U.S. technology and public science. (Narin, Hamilton,
   and Olivastro 1997) Two previous CHI papers have addressed this data in
   preliminary form. (Narin and Olivastro 1992; Narin, Hamilton, and
   Olivastro 1995)

   III. Results.

   In 1987-88 and 1993-94, the USPTO issued 468 patents, citing 596 papers
   with at least one ARS author (including some with extramural
   collaborators), resulting in 771 citations in all. The same numbers for
   extramural, USDA-supported papers (non-ARS) are 433 USPTO patents
   citing 510 papers for a total 727 citations. Figure 1 shows percent
   increases in citations between the two two-year periods. Citations to
   all USDA-supported papers increase over four-fold between the two
   periods. Extramural citationsmostly to universitiesincreased more than
   seven-fold. Since, during this period, extramural funding was
   increasing for the USDA, the unusually large increase in citing to
   extramural papers may be a reflection of increased numbers of
   extramural publications.

        Figure 1. Percent Increases in Citations, 1987-88 and 1993-94
        Figure 1. Percent increases in citations, 1987-88 and 1993-94

   Indeed, the numbers of all journals and papers have increased steadily
   over this time (especially in biomedicine), which may partially account
   for the citation increases. One can, however, adjust for this and for
   different citation patterns among different fields by calculating the
   number of patent citations per paper. For example, Biomedical Research
   papers are, overall, cited more than twice as often as Clinical
   Medicine papers.

   Considerable collaboration exists between ARS and extramural
   scientists. Figure 2 profiles the authorship of this patent-cited paper
   data set. The numbers are "whole counts." For example, a paper that has
   two ARS authors, one university author, and one private company author
   will be counted in both the "ARS+University" and "ARS+Other"
   categories. This makes the paper totals shown here slightly higher than
   the actual number. Citations to papers that have only university
   authors are in the "University Only" columnthe same for "ARS Only." The
   "Other" category includes private companies, other government agencies,
   and miscellaneous other institutions whose total is less than 10
   percent of the citations. The column on the left has citations from
   patents issued in 1987-88; on the right are citations from 1993-94
   patents.

                 Figure 2. Authorship of Patent-Cited Papers
                 Figure 2. Authorship of Patent-Cited Papers

   Collaboration between ARS and universities increased from 20 to 27
   percent, along with marginal increases in ARS co-authorship with other
   types of institutions. Further evidence of increased university
   participation in technologically important science supported by the
   USDA is in the "University Only" category. As mentioned earlier, some
   increases in numbers may come from increased extramural funding.

   One way to measure the division of responsibility for these
   patent-cited science papers is the "fractional count" of authors on
   them. A "Fractional Count" is the sum of the fraction of each
   institution types authorship of each paper. For example, if the paper
   cited by a patent has two ARS authors and three university authors,
   then the ARS is credited with 0.4 citations, and universities with 0.6.
   Figure 3 shows the proportion of that citation sum shared by various
   types of institutions. The ARS and universities share the authorship of
   these patent-cited papers about equally, and together claim more than
   90 percent of them. Each other institution type has less than 5
   percent. Universities and the ARS are about equally responsible for
   creating the science supported by the USDA and cited in patents.

          Figure 3. Proportion of Citations by Type of Institutions
          Figure 3. Proportion of Citations by Type of Institutions

   Figure 4 breaks down the fields into which these patent-cited papers
   fall. The journal in which a paper appears determines the field. (Noma
   1986) Compared to the extramural USDA-supported papers (mostly
   universities), ARS authors publish more often in Biology and Chemistry
   journals. The extramural papers, however, are predominantly published
   in Biomedical Research journals, and some Clinical Medicine. The
   difference in emphasis is between the more applied kind of research
   done at ARS, especially agricultural science, and the more basic
   research done by the universities, especially Microbiology,
   Biochemistry, and Molecular Biology.

           Figure 4. Breakdown of Patent-Cited Papers into Fields
           Figure 4. Breakdown of Patent-Cited papers into Fields

   The journals in which research papers appear can suggest how basic or
   applied the research is. CHI has given journals rankings of one
   (applied technology), two (engineering-technological science), three
   (applied research), or four (basic scientific research), going from
   most applied to most basic. (Narin, Pinski, and Carpenter 1976)
   Examples of the most basic (Level 4) journals include The Physical
   Review and Journal of the American Chemical Society. The most applied
   (Level 1) journals include such publications as Journal of the Iron &
   Steel Institute and Journal of the American Medical Association.

   Figure 5 shows how our USDA data set is distributed among the levels.
   On the left are citations to papers with ARS authors. Here citations to
   applied research papers edge out those to basic papers by 5 percent. On
   the right, however, about 63 percent of citations to non-ARS papers
   supported by the USDA are at the more basic level, consistent with
   Figure 3.

          Figure 5. Distribution of USDA Data Set Among the Levels
          Figure 5. Distribution of USDA Data Set Among the Levels

   Focussing on the patents, we now want to examine the geographic origin
   of patents citing research literature. We use the home addresses of the
   inventors, which is included on USPTO patents, to infer where the
   inventive activity occurred. This is more precise than the address of
   the assignee that owns the patent, which is usually the company
   headquarters. Figure 6 graphs the percent of citations going from
   U.S.-invented patents to ARS-authored papers. The counts for inventors
   are fractional. Thus, a patent citation with both U.S. and foreign
   inventors can be split. Nonetheless, these cases are a tiny fraction of
   patents and papers, so the division between U.S. and foreign is clear.

     Figure 6. Percent of Citations Going from U.S.-Invented Patents to
                            ARS-Authored Papers
     Figure 6. Percent of citations going form U.S.-Invented patents to
                            ARS-Authored Papers

   Of all patent citations to ARS papers, 83 percent were from
   U.S.-invented patents, with slight increases from 1987-88 to 1993-94.
   From other research, we know that about the same percentages obtain for
   citations to all U.S.-authored papers. Both in agriculture and overall,
   U.S. science is preferentially feeding U.S. technology. In addition,
   about 60 percent of all patent citations to foreign papers come from
   U.S.-invented patents issued in 1987-88. This shows that U.S.-invented
   patents are heavily citing foreign science, but foreign-invented
   patents are not heavily citing U.S. science. Therefore, U.S. technology
   is using foreign science far more intensively than foreign technology
   is using U.S. science. Moreover, U.S.-invented patents are more
   strongly science-linked. Although 13 percent of U.S. and 10 percent of
   foreign patents have at least one science reference on their front
   page, U.S. patents have about 0.55 science references per patent
   compared with 0.23 for foreign patents.

   Finally, we would like some comparison between our target institution
   and the outside world. Due to the large amount of data that needs to be
   processed, we picked a single year (1988) to see how the cited
   institution ranks among others doing work in its fields. We went back
   to our SLID database and extracted all patent-cited papers published in
   1988 in three fields that the ARS emphasizes in its papers: Biomedical
   Research, Biology, and Chemistry. Since authors from multiple
   institutions can collaborate on a single paper, we fractionally counted
   the number of papers each institution has in a particular field. We
   ranked the institutions in order of number of fractional papers cited
   by all patents issued through 1995.
   Table 1 shows the result for the field of Biology, where ARS ranks
   number one. ARS is in the top sixteen in all three fields, measured by
   number of cited papers. The "Percent Papers Cited" shows what fraction
   of its papers in that field is cited by patents. ARSs rate of
   biological citations is twice the average, and the largest of the
   leading institutions.

                  Table 1. Results for the Field of Biology

         Biology              Number of Cited Papers % Papers Cited
         ARS                                   33.6              3%
         UNIV CALIF DAVIS                       8.5              2%
         UNIV WISCONSIN                         7.7              3%
         CORNELL UNIV                           6.0              2%
         DOW CHEM CO                            6.0             53%
         UNIV ILLINOIS                          5.0              2%
         UNIV FLORIDA                           4.0              1%
         N CAROLINA STATE UNI                   4.0              1%
         UNIV NEBRASKA                          4.0              3%
         UNIV GEORGIA                           3.5              1%
         CIBA GEIGY CORP                        3.5             57%
         TEXAS A&M UNIV                         3.2              1%
         UNIV CALIF BERKELEY                    3.0              1%
         OREGON STATE UNIV                      3.0              2%
         WASHINGTON ST UNIV                     3.0              2%
         MICHIGAN STATE UNIV                    3.0              2%
         RUTGERS STATE UNIV                     3.0              3%
          All Biology Papers                12199.4              2%

   III. Conclusions.

   Our analysis concluded the following:
   1.The number of USDA-supported papers cited by U.S. patents, and the
       consequent total citations, tripled between 1987-88 and 1993-94.
       Over and above mere increased publication rates, this is probably
       an indicator of increased reliance on basic research by all of
       agricultural technology, and also reflects a shift in the
       technology to areas that are traditionally more science-linked,
       such as genetic engineering.
       2.Collaboration between the ARS and other institutions, especially
       universities, increased by one-third. Still, authorship of
       USDA-supported papers is evenly split between the ARS and
       universities. Using this data, one can track the demographics of
       the major contributors to a patented technology. The technological
       impact of collaborations could also be investigated this way.
       3.Cited ARS papers are predominantly applied science, especially
       agricultural, whereas cited USDA-supported university research is
       more basic and biomedical. This no doubt originates in the agencys
       funding decisions. Therefore, the consequences of these decisions
       can be followed through to the published science, and on to the
       patented technology that cites it.
       4.All USDA-supported papers are preferentially cited by U.S.
       inventors. The U.S. patent system is roughly half foreign and half
       U.S., and yet more than 80 percent of the citations to these papers
       are from U.S. inventors. The USDA, like other agencies we have
       studied, seems to contribute to U.S.-based technology
       preferentially. This patent set, however, was extracted using
       USDA-supported papers as a source. Whether the U.S. has a
       disproportionate share of all agricultural patents has yet to be
       determined.
       Even most of the foreign research cited by patents is cited by
       U.S.-invented patents. This goes on although patents in the U.S.
       system are almost evenly split between those held by foreign and
       U.S. entities. All of this suggests that a direct wholesale
       plundering of American science for foreign benefit is not
       happening. Quite the contrary, U.S. patents are heavily using both
       U.S. and foreign science.
       5.For a single year (1988) we compared the ARS with other research
       institutions in scientific fields in which the ARS is heavily
       involved. ARS has the most Biology papers published that year and
       cited by patents, more than three times as many as the next
       institution on the list. Their papers have a high rate of patent
       citation70 percent more often than average. This reflects practical
       biological research of great interest among technology developers.
       It may be an indicator of value in GPRA (Government Performance &
       Results Act of 1993) evaluations. This act charges federal agencies
       with establishing goals and measuring performance results. The
       contribution by science supported by public money to the nations
       technology is surely one legitimate measure of performance. The ARS
       is also among the top sixteen institutions in its less-emphasized
       fields of Chemistry and Biomedical Research.

   Science references contained in U.S. patents are independent indicators
   that link science and technology. Despite the limitations, they
   effectively trace the scientific underpinnings of technical
   innovationsat least the science and technology that have been publicly
   disclosed. These indicators can be further traced back to the agencies
   that fund the science. The connection between money appropriated for
   research (much of it public) and resulting technology is now apparent.

   This case study can be replicated for any one of 3500 institutions in
   the corporate address database, including combined groups of agencies,
   such as the Department of Defense. One can also approach the study from
   patents to science, by singling out the patent portfolios of
   individuals, companies, technologies, or nations, and tracing their
   scientific ancestry. The potential of this linkage database is far from
   fully realized.

   ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS:

   The authors thank the Agricultural Research Service of the U.S.
   Department of Agriculture, especially Dr. Richard Parry, for this
   papers use of the study performed for them by CHI Research, Inc. (Grant
   number 59-0790-6-054)

   REFERENCES:

   Narin, Francis, Gabriel Pinski, and Helen H. Gee. "Structure of the
   Biomedical Literature." Journal of the American Society for Information
   Science 27(1), January-February 1976, pp. 25-45.

   Narin, Francis, Mitchell Rosen, and Dominic Olivastro. "Patent Citation
   Analysis: New Validation Studies and Linkage Statistics." In Science
   Indicators: Their Use in Science Policy and Their Role in Science
   Studies, ed. A. F. J. van Raan, A. J. Nederhoff, and H. F. Moed. The
   Netherlands: DSWO Press, November 14-16, 1988, pp. 37-47.

   Narin, Francis, and Dominic Olivastro. "Status Report - Linkage Between
   Technology and Science." Research Policy 21(3), June 1992, pp. 237-249.

   Narin, Francis, Kimberly Hamilton, and Dominic Olivastro. "Linkage
   Between Agency-Supported Research and Patented Industrial Technology."
   Research Evaluation, 5(3), December 1995, pp. 183-187.

   Narin, Francis, Kimberly Hamilton, and Dominic Olivastro. "Linkage
   Between U.S. Patents and Public Science." Science, Manuscript submitted
   for publication, 1997.

   Noma, Elliot. "Subject Classification and Influence Weights for 3,000
   Journals." Report to National Institutes of Health and Advisory Board
   for the Research Councils (England). (Available from CHI Research), May
   1986.
