http://www.access-board.gov/news/508.htm

   Access Provisions Take Effect for Federal Info Technology
   (6/25/01)
   Board Issues New On-line Guide to the Section 508 Standards

          Our new Section 508 page links to all related materials.

   On June 25, 2001, accessibility requirements for Federal electronic and
   information technology took effect under Section 508 of the
   Rehabilitation Act. This law requires that such technology be
   accessible according to standards developed by the Access Board, which
   are now part of the Federal government’s procurement regulations. These
   standards, as issued by the Board last December, cover a variety of
   products, including computer hardware and software, websites, phone
   systems, fax machines, copiers, and similar technologies. Provisions in
   the standards spell out what makes these products accessible to people
   with disabilities, including those with vision, hearing, and mobility
   impairments. The Board included both technical criteria specific to
   various types of technologies and performance-based requirements, which
   focus on a product’s functional capabilities.  The Board is developing
   a new on-line guide to the standards.

   Section 508 and its enforcement provisions apply to products procured
   by Federal agencies after the June 25th effective date. The law relies
   strongly on the procurement process to ensure compliance with the new
   standards. In April, the Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council issued
   a rule that effectively folded the standards into the regulations that
   govern Federal procurement. The updated regulation will help Federal
   agencies comply with the law. Compliance with the standards is required
   except where it would pose an "undue burden" (as defined in the
   standards) or where no complying product is commercially available.
   Certain technologies related to national security are exempt.  The law
   allows people with disabilities to file a complaint with the
   appropriate Federal agency concerning access to products procured after
   the effective date. Alternatively, individuals may file suit against an
   agency.

   Presidential Action
   President Bush tries out a computer at the Pentagon's
   Computer/Electronic Accommodations Program Technology Evaluation Center
   (White House photo by Paul Morse) A week before 508's effective date,
   President George Bush visited the Pentagon's Computer/Electronic
   Accommodations Program Technology Evaluation Center (CAPTEC), which
   evaluates and demonstrates assistive technology for people with
   disabilities at the Department of Defense and other federal agencies.
   The President used this visit to call attention to new rules
   implementing Section 508 and to commit the Federal government to a
   leadership role in providing greater access for Americans with
   disabilities.  "I'm pleased to announce that when Section 508 of the
   Rehabilitation Act ... becomes effective for all federal agencies next
   Monday, there will be more opportunities for people of all abilities to
   access government information," the President said.  Bush continued:

   "Increasingly, Americans use information technology to interact with
   their government.  They rely on thousands of government web pages to
   download forms, learn about federal programs, find out where to turn
   for government assistance, and communicate with elected officials, such
   as the President.  And because of Section 508, government web sites
   will be more accessible for millions of Americans who have
   disabilities. Section 508 will also make the federal government a
   better employer, as roughly 120,000 federal employees with disabilities
   will have greater access to the tools they need to better perform their
   jobs.  This is one example of the successful public-private
   partnerships that are removing barriers to full community participation
   by Americans with disabilities.  I thank the leaders from the
   technology industry who are with us today for your innovation and your
   ongoing cooperation."

   The Bush Administration is working closely with the high-tech industry
   and the disability rights community to implement Section 508 and is
   encouraging the private sector to develop products and technologies
   accessible to people with disabilities. (The full text of the
   President’s remarks is available on the White House website).

   Websites
   While Section 508 covers a broad range of technologies, a key concern
   among many Federal agencies is access to websites, often the primary
   portal to an agency’s information and services. The provisions for
   websites in the 508 standards focus on the interaction with various
   assistive products people with vision impairments use to access the
   Internet and other computer-based information. Common among these
   products are screen readers, which translate what's on a computer
   screen into automated audible output, and refreshable Braille
   displays.  The standards seek to ensure that web pages and the
   information they contain are fully available to the users of these
   assistive technologies. For example, certain conventions, such as
   verbal tags or identification of graphics and format devices, are
   necessary so that these devices can "read" them for the user in a
   sensible way. However, use of graphics or animation are not prohibited
   or discouraged. Website provisions also address image maps, style
   sheets, scripting languages, applets and plug-ins, and electronic
   forms.

   Resources
   Federal IT Accessibility Initiative Logo - "Opening Doors to IT" The
   Federal Information Technology Accessibility Initiative (FITAI), an
   interagency partnership organized by the General Services
   Administration (GSA), serves as a key government resource on access to
   electronic and information technology and agency compliance with
   Section 508. The FITAI has organized training programs on Section 508
   and its effects on the procurement process.  Many Federal agencies have
   designated 508 coordinators who are involved in the necessary policy
   implementation. Questions about an agency’s implementation plan should
   be directed to the appropriate coordinator. A contact list is provided
   on the FITAI website. Another key government-sponsored resource is the
   Information Technology Technical Assistance and Training Center
   (ITTATC), which promotes the creation, use and dissemination of
   accessible telecommunications and information technology by providing
   technical assistance, training and information.  The ITTATC was
   established by the Georgia Institute of Technology's Center for
   Rehabilitation Technology through a 5-year, $7.5 million grant from the
   U.S. Department of Education.

   Questions about the 508 standards can be sent to the Board at
   508@access-board.gov.

   Back
