http://insp.pnl.gov/?reports/biweekly/bi

   INSP Logo

   Web site sections __________ Search


   - Current Activity Report
   - Activity Report Archive
   - Current Chornobyl Report - Program Reports
                              - Brochures/Fliers
                              - Conference Proceedings - INSP Resource Center

      Chornobyl Report
      A monthly update of Chornobyl support activities for July 30, 1999
        __________________________________________________________________

      DOE Deputy Secretary visits Ukraine with U.S. Ambassador
      Report available on German and French activities at Chornobyl
      Ukraine's education system joins the GLOBE program
      Glauthier commemorates International Radioecology Laboratory
      Contractor selected for heat plant
      Pioneer robot makes debut at Chornobyl Shelter
      Terry Lash receives citizenship award
      Shelter safety tasks completed
      Trade conference part of trip to Ukraine
      Update on EBRD/Nuclear Safety Account Project Management Unit
      activities
      Survey activities to be completed by November
      Book project update
      Baseball arrives in Slavutych
        __________________________________________________________________

   DOE Deputy Secretary visits Ukraine with U.S. Ambassador


                                                           [glauthier.jpg]
   T.J. Glauthier represented the United States in Ukraine at a conference
                                         in Kharkiv and tour of Chornobyl.

      The U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) Deputy Secretary and Chief
      Operating Officer, T.J. Glauthier, led a small delegation of U.S.
      government officials to Ukraine May 26-28. As Deputy Secretary and COO,
      Glauthier directs the day-to-day management and policy development of
      DOE's 110,000 federal and contractor employees and $18 billion annual
   budget.

   The Ukraine trip included a tour of the operational Unit 3 at the
   Chornobyl Nuclear Power Plant (NPP) and a visit to the Chornobyl
   Shelter site. Glauthier also toured various scientific, educational,
   and cultural facilities in Slavutych. While there, he received
   briefings on several programs under DOE direction. In addition,
   Glauthier and U.S. Ambassador to Ukraine Steven Pifer represented the
   United States at the U.S.-Ukraine Energy Trade and Investment
   Conference in Kharkiv.

   Accompanying Glauthier and Ambassador Pifer were Rose Gottemoeller, DOE
   Assistant Secretary for Nonproliferation and National Security; Terry
   Lash, DOE Director of the Office of International Nuclear Safety and
   Cooperation; Terry Fariello, DOE Deputy Assistant Secretary for Policy;
   and Carol Kessler, U.S. Department of State Senior Coordinator for
   Nuclear Safety.

   This issue of the Chornobyl Report includes some of the highlights of
   Glauthier's visit to Slavutych and Chornobyl. Additional photographs of
   the visit can be found on the International Nuclear Safety Program
   Internet site at http://insp.pnl.gov:2080/?library/new_photos.

   ^top

Report available on German and French activities at Chornobyl

   The initial project of the German-French Initiative for Chornobyl
   recently completed its first year. The purpose of the Safety State of
   the Chornobyl Sarcophagus project is to collect, analyze and verify
   existing data describing the current safety of damaged Unit 4.

   The project is being conducted by Gesellschaft für Anlagen und
   Reaktorsicherheit (GRS) mbH of Germany and the Institut de Protection
   et de Sureté Nucleaire (IPSN) of France.

   Contractors working on the project include the State Scientific
   Research Institute of Building Constructions, Kyiv; Chornobyl Nuclear
   Power Plant (NPP) and Object Shelter management; the Interdisciplinary
   Scientific and Technical Center; and the Kurchatov Institute, Moscow,
   Russia.

   Areas of investigation include:
     * building construction - pre- and post-accident geometric dimensions
       and design, load-bearing capacity, material parameters, and other
       damage
     * radiological situation and equipment - radiation fields,
       contamination levels, radiological protection aspects, systems,
       components, measuring devices, instrumentation, fire loads, and
       other equipment
     * nuclear fuel and radioactive waste - remaining fuel elements,
       fragments of active zone, fuel-containing masses, fuel dust,
       radioactive water solutes, and contaminated materials
     * environmental impact - radiation fields and contamination levels at
       the Shelter, including radioactive concentration in the air, soil,
       and groundwater
     * database configuration - provision of electronic means (software
       and hardware), establishment of the structure of the database,
       interfaces to the contractors, data input.

   The International Chornobyl Center is providing administrative support
   and establishing appropriate documentation. The Center will maintain
   the database once the project is completed.

   An expert team under the guidance of Atomaudit, Kyiv, will provide
   external data and content quality management. Geomatics International,
   in cooperation with GRS, will provide external quality control of the
   database configuration, data transfer, and installation of the system
   at the Center and GRS/IPSN facilities.

   A comprehensive description of the project may be found on the GRS
   Internet site at www.grs.de/frambote.htm. Click on "Publications"
   section. The report is titled, The French-German Initiative for
   Chornobyl.

Ukraine's education system joins the GLOBE program

   On May 27, Ukraine joined 82 other countries as members of the GLOBE
   program for students, educators, and scientists. GLOBE, which stands
   for Global Learning and Observations to Benefit the Environment, is an
   international science and education program started in the United
   States by Vice President Al Gore in 1994.

   An official signing ceremony for the GLOBE agreement between Ukraine
   and the United States was held at one of the Slavutych schools during
   Deputy Secretary Glauthier's visit. Steven Pifer, U.S. Ambassador to
   Ukraine, and Dmytro Bechev, Ukrainian Head of the Department of
   Secondary Education, Ministry of Education, signed the document in
   front of a large gathering of U.S. and Ukrainian government officials,
   Slavutych community leaders, Peace Corps representatives, local
   students, and news media.

   "Through support from the Peace Corps' Mission in Ukraine and the U.S.
   Department of Energy, schools such as those in Slavutych will soon be
   able to join other students and teachers around the world in learning
   about and improving the environment," said Ambassador Pifer. "As part
   of the GLOBE program, students from kindergarten to high school will
   help scientists by regularly taking environmental measurements of the
   soil, air, and water and publishing their data via the Internet on the
   World Wide Web," said Pifer.

   Several of the Slavutych students who will be involved in GLOBE
   activities joined Deputy Secretary Glauthier in opening an electronic
   mail message from Vice President Gore (reprinted below) welcoming them
   to the GLOBE program. Together, the students and Glauthier also drafted
   a note of thanks back to the Vice President.


    [atcomputer2.jpg]
    DOE Deputy Secretary Glauthier opens an electronic message from Vice
    President Al Gore to Slavutych students offering congratulations on
    Ukraine becoming the newest member of the GLOBE program.

                             THE VICE PRESIDENT
                                 WASHINGTON

   Dear Friends:

   I am honored to take this opportunity to welcome the students and
   teachers of Slavutych who are joining the GLOBE program. While I regret
   not being able to join you in person, I do want to extend my best
   wishes for a successful and productive event.

   We are delighted that a Slavutych school is the first in Ukraine to
   join the GLOBE program. This marks the entry of Ukraine into a
   worldwide network of students, teachers and scientists who are working
   together to study and understand the global environment. Students and
   teachers from 6,800 schools in more than 80 countries are working with
   research scientists through the GLOBE program to learn about and to
   further public understanding of our planet.

   GLOBE, which stands for Global Learning and Observations to Benefit the
   Environment, has three major goals:
     * to increase environmental awareness of people throughout the world
     * to contribute to the scientific understanding of our planet
     * to help students everywhere reach higher standards in science and
       mathematics.

   By collecting GLOBE data, the students and teachers of Slavutych will
   have unique and valuable information to share with countries worldwide,
   and will build an understanding of the ecosystems, lifestyles, and
   cultures of other nations. Ultimately, they will learn a powerful
   lesson: that the Earth is a system and that what happens in one part of
   the world can have important effects elsewhere.

   Please accept my best wishes for all of you during this special
   occasion, along with my warmest hopes for continuing success in your
   lifelong education.

   Sincerely,

   Al Gore

   ^top

Glauthier commemorates International Radioecology Laboratory

   DOE Deputy Secretary T.J. Glauthier commemorated the construction and
   future operation of the International Radioecology Laboratory (IRL) at
   a ceremony in Slavutych on May 27. Several people instrumental in
   establishing the laboratory also were present. They included Robert
   Baker, Horn Professor of Biology, and Carlton Phillips, Chairman of
   Biological Sciences, Texas Tech University; and Ron Chesser, Professor
   of Genetics, University of Georgia, who directs IRL research programs.
   Mikhail Bandarkov, the recently named director of IRL, also
   participated in the ceremonial activities.

   "It is important that scientific research be conducted in the polluted
   regions near Chornobyl to document and understand the environmental
   impacts of this disaster and to predict the environmental consequences
   of future radioactive releases," said Glauthier. "The International
   Radioecology Laboratory will provide a focal point for scientists from
   around the world to evaluate the legacy of the world's worst nuclear
   accident," he said.

    [plantingtree1.jpg]
    Dr. Terry Lash, Director of DOE's Office of International Nuclear
    Safety and Cooperation, helps plant a tree at the International
    Radioecology Laboratory while Chornobyl NPP Director General
    Tolstonogov (left foreground) and other dignitaries look on. The tree
    was one of three planted to commemorate the construction and future
    operation of the laboratory.

   The IRL was established by agreement between the governments of Ukraine
   and the United States. Construction is to be completed by end of the
   year. The laboratory includes the main facility in Slavutych and a
   sample-processing laboratory in the town of Chornobyl.

   In the Chornobyl exclusion zone, animals and plants spend their entire
   life cycles in one of the most radioactively contaminated sites on
   earth. Glauthier said that the accident at Chornobyl on April 26, 1986,
   left a legacy that needs to be studied to learn about the long-term
   risks of radioactive materials released into the environment.

   Scientists from Ukraine, the University of Georgia, and Texas Tech
   University have been involved in cooperative research in the Chornobyl
   region since 1992. Currently, DOE and the University of Georgia provide
   most of the laboratory's funding.

   In addition to finding answers to questions about the effects of the
   Chornobyl accident, the laboratory serves another purpose. Work at the
   new laboratory will help provide badly needed jobs in the Slavutych
   area.

   Most of the 28,000 Slavutych residents are dependent, in some way, on
   support from the operation of Chornobyl NPP. Three reactors at
   Chornobyl are closed and the fourth is scheduled to be shut down in the
   year 2000. The laboratory is part of the planned diversification of the
   Slavutych economy.

   A joint committee will oversee management of the IRL. Committee members
   are specialists from the Ukraine Ministry of Emergency Situations and
   Affairs of the Protection of the Population from the Consequences of
   the Chornobyl Nuclear Accident, the International Chornobyl Center, and
   University of Georgia's Savannah River Ecology Laboratory.

   ^top

Contractor selected for heat plant

        [heatplant.jpg]
        Windows were recently installed in the Replacement Heat Plant
        Administration Building.

   A general contractor for the Chornobyl heat plant completion project
   was selected from among two proposals in early May. Negotiations to
   finalize the contract are in progress. The contract is expected to be
   signed and the contractor announced by August 1999. Several other
   contracts were executed, including
     * construction of heat and other service piping and trestle upgrade
     * final design
     * electrical testing and adjustment of administrative building
     * boiler components, instrumentation, and controls

   Substantial progress has been made on completion of the Administrative
   building as well as the underground water and other services, including
   a fire protection ring. None the less, much remains to be done in a
   relatively short period of time.

   ^top

Pioneer robot makes debut at Chornobyl Shelter

   [robot.jpg]
   The Pioneer robot made its official debut during a general systems
   demonstration outside the Chornobyl Shelter observation building on May
   27. Attending the demonstration were (left to right) T.J. Glauthier,
   DOE Deputy Secretary; Steven Pifer, U.S. Ambassador to Ukraine; Joseph
   Herndon, Oak Ridge National Laboratory; Bruce Thompson, RedZone
   Robotics, Inc.; an interpreter; Vitaliy Tolstonogov, Chornobyl NPP
   Director General; and Volodymyr Kholosha, First Deputy Minister of
   Emergency Situations.

   In late December 1998, the United States shipped a radiation-hardened
   robot to Ukraine for possible use in reconstructing the shelter over
   damaged Unit 4. Named "Pioneer," the robot ultimately may be deployed
   to collect visual and physical data in areas too contaminated for human
   access. Development of Pioneer was a collaborative effort involving
   U.S. companies, national laboratories, and universities.

   After several weeks of shakedown and training, Pioneer made its
   official debut at the Shelter site on May 27. The demonstration was
   held in conjunction with DOE Deputy Secretary Glauthier's visit to
   Chornobyl NPP. At the conclusion of the demonstration, Glauthier was
   presented with the controls and tried his hand at manipulating the
   robot.

   DOE and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration provided
   funding for Pioneer with development support from Carnegie Mellon
   University's (CMU) National Robotics Engineering Consortium. RedZone
   Robotics Inc. of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, built the robot. Oak Ridge
   National Laboratory (ORNL) staff manage the Pioneer project and serve
   as technical coordinators for the work. Lawrence Livermore National
   Laboratory had been involved in the early development of the robot.

   Testing of Pioneer was conducted in May in accordance with the program
   plan, "Pioneer System Cold Testing and Preparing for Demonstration at
   Shelter Object," developed by the Shelter Object organization and
   approved by ORNL.

   During the training and nonradioactive test activities, ORNL, RedZone,
   and CMU had substantial interaction with staff of the Unit 4 Shelter
   and Interbranch Scientific and Technical Center (ISTC). Those
   specialists extensive reviewed the Pioneer documentation.

   ^top

Terry Lash receives citizenship award

   [lash1.jpg]
   Slavutych Mayor Volodymyr Udovychenko presented an honorary citizenship
   award to "our friend and brother from the United States, Dr. Terry
   Lash." The award is given each year to a person who has made a
   "personal contribution to city development." The awards are presented
   on the anniversary of the founding of Slavutych. Lash was chosen to
   receive this year's award to acknowledge the close cooperation between
   Ukraine and the United States on international projects vital to the
   future of Slavutych.

   ^top

Shelter safety tasks Completed

   Three of the four tasks in the Shelter Worker Safety Project have been
   completed. The completed tasks are neutron monitoring, dust
   suppression, and industrial safety. The remaining task, dose reduction,
   is on schedule to be completed by the end of September 1999.

   A team from Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, including contractor
   staff from Delphinus Engineering Inc., visited Chornobyl in late April
   to install equipment and provide training on software for dosimetry
   systems recently released by Ukrainian Customs. In addition, agreements
   were reached on installing upgrades to the local area network at the
   Shelter, now in progress. Meetings were held in Kyiv with the Nuclear
   Regulatory Administration and State Scientific and Technical Center to
   discuss opportunities for future collaboration on regulatory issues.

   ^top

Trade conference part of trip to Ukraine

                                                              [dyomin.jpg]
                  Governor Oleg Dyomin, Head of the Kharkiv Regional State
       Administration, hosted the U.S.-Ukraine Energy Trade and Investment
                                                              Conference..

   Chief executive officers and other representatives from U.S. business
   attended a trade conference in Kharkiv, Ukraine, May 27-30, hosted by
   the U.S. Departments of Commerce, Energy, and State. U.S. Ambassador to
   Ukraine Steven Pifer and DOE Deputy Secretary T.J. Glauthier
   represented the United States at the U.S.-Ukraine Energy Trade and
   Investment Conference.

   The event was held as follow-up to the November 1998 U.S.-Ukraine
   Conference on Nuclear Trade and Cooperation in Washington, D.C. Both
   events were organized to introduce U.S. corporations and firms to
   Ukrainian energy companies and institutes to expand business
   opportunities and promote commercial partnerships.

   Several joint statements were signed and grants awarded at the
   conference in Kharkiv last month. The following information, provided
   by DOE, summarizes actions taken in conjunction with the conference:

   Exchange of Diplomatic Notes on Agreement of Peaceful Nuclear
   Cooperation ("1-2-3 Agreement") - Through an exchange of notes, the
   United States and Ukraine brought into force their Agreement on
   Peaceful Nuclear Cooperation. This important agreement marks the
   beginning of a new dimension in the U.S. nuclear partnership with
   Ukraine. The U.S. and Ukraine will be embarking on the Nuclear Fuel
   Qualification Program to enable Ukraine to diversify its suppliers for
   nuclear fuel. The United States expects to provide $10 million for this
   project in FY 2000, with additional funding in future years. In
   addition, the option of alternative sources of nuclear fuel will save
   Ukraine millions of dollars over time. The agreement will open the door
   to other such concrete commercial projects between U.S. and Ukrainian
   companies.

   U.S. Department of Energy Grant Awarded to Alliance to Save Energy -
   The U.S. Department of Energy awarded a $75,000 grant to the Alliance
   to Save Energy to develop a steam energy efficiency initiative in
   Ukraine. The U.S. Department of Energy has also selected the Alliance
   to Save Energy for the first-year funding of $100,000 for a cooperative
   agreement to promote sustainable energy service companies in Ukraine.
   Second-year funding of $75,000 is anticipated pending successful
   results in the first year's work.

   U.S. Government Grant Awarded to Motorola/Kommunar - The U.S.
   Government announced the decision to award a $300,000 Department of
   Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction grant to Motorola to form a
   defense conversion joint venture with Kommunar to assemble two-way
   radios in Kharkiv. This announcement supports the State Department's
   Kharkiv initiative to expand business opportunities in Kharkiv.

   Joint Statement on Expanded Cooperation in Energy Fields - The U.S.
   Department of Energy and the Ministries of Energy and Power of Ukraine
   announced intensified cooperation in energy efficiency, conservation,
   transmission, distribution, and modernization through market economies.
   New projects are expected in areas such as clean energy technologies,
   nuclear energy and nuclear safety technologies, development of domestic
   oil and gas resources, and nuclear accident response. The two
   organizations also announced that they would work to enhance Ukraine's
   energy security by improving the investment climate and strengthening
   the cooperative power market.

   Joint Statement on Expanded Cooperation in the Field of Emergency
   Response and Remediation of the Consequences of the Chornobyl Nuclear
   Accident - The U.S. Department of Energy and the Ministry of Ukraine
   for Emergencies and Population Protection from the Consequences of the
   Chornobyl Disaster announced intensified cooperation to prepare for and
   respond to radiological accidents including assessment of radiological
   contamination in plants, animals, humans, and the development of
   technologies for remediation of contaminated territory. The new
   cooperation will include expanded research collaboration through the
   International Radioecology Laboratory with facilities in Slavutych and
   the town of Chornobyl.

   Joint Statement on Expanded Cooperation in Environmental Protection and
   Nuclear Safety - The U.S. Department of Energy and the Ministry of
   Environmental Protection and Nuclear Safety of Ukraine announced
   intensified cooperation in waste management, environmental protection,
   and nuclear reactor safety. New projects are expected in areas such as
   cleanup technologies for fossil plant effluents, diagnostic
   capabilities for chemical and radiological emergency response, risk
   analysis for national pipeline safety, and urban air quality monitoring
   and emissions standards. Activities are to include technical
   assistance, information exchange, and technical and economic
   feasibility studies.

   ^top

Update on EBRD/Nuclear Safety Account Project Management Unit activities

   The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development's Nuclear Safety
   Account project addresses preparation for closure of Units 1, 2 and 3
   through two decommissioning facilities (liquid radioactive waste
   treatment and interim spent fuel storage as well as immediate safety
   measures at Unit 3 prior to closure.

  Liquid Radioactive Waste Treatment Plant

   Notification of contract award for the liquid radioactive waste
   treatment plant is scheduled for June. As a result of clarification
   meetings held after the first-stage tenders, second-stage tender
   documents were sent to each bidder in April. The submission date for
   the second-stage tender was May 7.

  Interim Spent Fuel Storage Facility

   The lowest-price tender for the interim spent fuel storage facility was
   evaluated and determined to meet the technical specification
   requirements. The final evaluation report will be completed pending
   resolution of contractual terms regarding taxes and duties exemption.
   Contract award is expected in June.

   The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Nuclear and Radiation
   Safety has accepted the new site location. The Ministry of Emergency
   has provided verbal acceptance. The Cabinet of Ministers is expected to
   provide formal approval in June.

  Safety improvement projects at Unit 3

   All items except for the 6-kilovolt switchgears and personnel access
   control system have been supplied and are available on site. The
   inverters were installed and commissioned. Installation of the hydrogen
   monitoring system and vibration diagnostic equipment is under way and
   scheduled to be completed during the summer outage, along with the
   remainder of the items.

   ^top

Survey activities to be completed by November

   [womaninlab.jpg]
   Samples collected are analyzed onsite at a Chornobyl Unit 3 analytical
   radiochemistry laboratory.

   Staff at Chornobyl Unit 1 began Comprehensive Engineering and Radiation
   Survey (CERS) activities in April. The objective of the survey is to
   define the radiological and operational status of Unit 1 systems and
   facilities to support decommissioning planning. The Chornobyl NPP chief
   engineer approved nearly all of the 114 working programs or procedures.
   To date, staff at Chornobyl NPP and the Slavutych Laboratory for
   International Research and Technology have completed survey activities
   on 13 plant systems. Survey activities are focused on systems in the
   Chemical Shop, Radiation Safety Shop, and Ventilation and Air
   Conditioning Shop. Physical surveys for the Unit 1 CERS are scheduled
   to be completed by November 1999.

   ^top

Book project update

   Hanford and Slavutych high school and middle school students working on
   a collaborative Hanford/Chornobyl book project have been extremely
   busy. At the Hanford School, students are gathering information for the
   book by interviewing community members who were removed from their land
   in the 1940s to make way for Hanford construction. They also have been
   interviewing scientists who worked on the Manhattan Project to
   construct the atomic bomb and scientists who now work on Hanford
   cleanup.

    [breactor.jpg]
    B Reactor was the United States' first plutonium production reactor.
    This photograph is one of many to be included in a book describing
    Hanford and Chornobyl past, present and future.

   The students in Slavutych are interviewing community members and
   scientists as well. They also are interviewing survivors of the
   Chornobyl accident. One of the survivors is Veronika Glukhova, formerly
   a student at Hanford High School. On May 2, 1999, her story was
   published in the newspaper that serves Richland, the Tri-City Herald.
   Veronica was six years old and lived in Ukraine when the accident
   occurred. Her father was a plant operator at the time, so she lived
   near the plant in a town called Prypyat, which was abandoned after the
   accident. Her story, as well as those of other Chornobyl survivors,
   will be included in the book on nuclear communities.

   Bechtel Hanford Inc. provided most of the funding for the student book
   project.

   ^top

Baseball arrives in Slavutych

   While visiting Slavutych, DOE Deputy Secretary Glauthier and Slavutych
   Mayor Udovychenko dedicated the first baseball field in town by
   throwing out the first pitch. Glauthier also brought with him baseballs
   and baseball jerseys, courtesy of the Pittsburgh Pirates and Carnegie
   Mellon University.

   The new field is the dream of Jeff Deal, a senior project manager based
   in Slavutych for DOE's Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL).
   Before Deal and his boys came to town, the children of Slavutych played
   soccer. Now they play baseball as well.

   Thanks to Deal and his three sons, many Slavutych citizens are getting
   an education in the fine art of Little League baseball, U.S. style.

   For the past year, Deal has been on special assignment in Slavutych,
   part of the joint project team of Battelle, Bechtel, and Electricite'
   de France that is providing safety improvements to the Chornobyl
   Shelter. He is responsible for managing project funds and setting up a
   common finance and business management structure for the three
   companies.

   [shakinghands.jpg]
   DOE Deputy Secretary Glauthier and Mayor Udovychenko join hands with
   Slavutych ballplayers to cheer the start of the first official baseball
   season at the new community field.

   Deal brought his love for baseball with him to this Ukrainian city
   whose population exists almost exclusively to run the Chornobyl plant.
   While working at PNNL in Richland, Washington, he also coached Little
   League ball in nearby Kennewick. Before moving his wife and sons to
   Slavutych, Deal decided he wanted to teach Ukrainian children how to
   play baseball.

   Now they are shagging fly balls, swinging for the fences, and knocking
   down hot grounders as well as any American Little Leaguer.

   "I gathered as much equipment as I could with the idea that we would
   start teaching my oldest son's friends the game of baseball. But after
   starting with just a few kids playing catch, soon we had at least 40
   boys playing consistently."

   Lack of equipment for the ball players is the number one obstacle, said
   Deal. "We had 20 kids and only 11 mitts. Many of the boys used their
   bare hands, and during drills we swapped gloves," he said. Help from
   the Deals' U.S. home is on the way. Colleagues at PNNL have been
   organized to gather baseball uniforms and equipment for the Ukrainian
   youngsters.

   Besides lacking equipment, Jeff explained the "Bad News Bears of
   Slavutych" played baseball on a field laid out on a dry lake bed. "It
   gives the American term of 'sandlot baseball' a new meaning," he said.

   More and more, the people of Slavutych are taking notice of Jeff and
   his family, and of what they are accomplishing. "After a meeting with
   the sports director of the city, he promised to provide two coaches and
   agreed to include a baseball diamond along with a new soccer field
   being built at the edge of town. We were also successful in getting
   several of the U.S. and foreign companies located here, such as
   Bechtel, to help build the new field."

   Bringing baseball to Slavutych has been a family activity for the
   Deals. "We actually started setting up the team last year," Deal said.
   "Jeff Jr., who is 11, played and helped me coach. Russell, 6, was the
   batboy. Brendon, 8, and my wife Linda always lent support," he said.

   Deal's assignment in Slavutych ends in the year 2000. Aside from
   sharing his love for baseball with the children of Slavutych, he said
   "I want to leave a small piece of America behind, and baseball is a
   positive and distinctly American legacy. The only thing missing is the
   hot dogs, peanuts, and Cracker Jacks."
     __________________________________________________________________

   See also Chornobyl Initiatives/General Information on Chornobyl and the
   Chornobyl Report Archive.
   ^top

   ----------
   Please write to us at insp@pnl.gov
   About this Web Site

   http://insp.pnl.gov:80/?reports/biweekly/bi
   The content was last modified on 08/04/1999 .

   Security & Privacy
