http://www-fbsc.ncifcrf.gov/abashkinresearch.html

   Welcome to the ABCC Website!


   ABCC website:  About ABCC Accounts  Hardware  Runable programs
                    Links    Software Networking     Training
   [logo55.gif]

   Search in ABCC pages _______________

   Search Reset
   GENERAL INFO
   Home
   Mission Statement
   Email us
   HELP DESK (301-846-5555)
   Staff
   User support (web-based)
   Training
   Tutorials
   Hardware Messages-of-the-Day
   Research
   Services
   High Performance Computing
   Video Conferenc ing at the FCRDC
   BIO-LOG UE Archives
   SOFTWARE
   QUICK LINKS

   [Select one__________________]
   HARDWARE
   Cray Research
   Cray SV1-4/96-96 Supercomputer
   J916 Classic Vector Computer
   J932se Vector Computer

   Silicon Graphics, Inc.
   Onyx Computer
   Power Challenge Superscalar Computer
   Origin 2000

   Digital Equipment Corporation
   Alpha 8400 Superscalar Computer

   International Business Machines
   Scalable PowerParallel 2 Superscalar Computer

   Hewlett Packard/Convex
   Exemplar UniTree Data Archival Computer

   StorageTek
   9311 Nearline Robotic Tape Silo

   Sun Microsystems
   Sun Sparc 20 workstation
   Sun Sparc 20 workstation

   MISCELLANEOUS
   FCRDC Home
   Library
   Site map
   [pixel.gif]
   Application of Quantum Chemistry to Biology
   A Research Project of Dr. Yuri Abashkin and Dr. Stanley K. Burt
   Quantum chemistry has not been heavily exploited for studying
   biological systems mainly due to limitations in computer power and
   memory. Computers are only now attaining speeds and memory size that
   allow quantum investigations of biological systems to be fruitful -
   but, even so, the size of the problem that can be studied is still
   severely limited and there is the need for new algorithmic development.
   Ab initio and density functional methods (DFT) offer the best hope for
   understanding enzyme mechanisms, hydrogen bonding, polarization
   effects, spectra, Van der Waals interactions and other fundamental
   processes in biology. We have used quantum chemistry DFT methods to
   study the enzyme mechanisms of HIV-1 protease, carboxypeptidase A,
   thymidine phosphorylase, DNA polymerase D, CDC-25, as well as to try
   and design mechanism-based inhibitors and anti-AIDS drugs. Given the
   drug resistance problem in treating HIV infection this may be an
   alternative, if one is clever enough. We have also used quantum
   chemistry DFT methods to calculate pKa's for a series dihydropyrone
   HIV-1 protease inhibitors for Parke-Davis and suggested substitutions
   that improved the compounds' potency. We have also calculated the
   electron affinity and reactivity for a series of compounds that cause
   zinc-ejection from the nucleocapsid protein P7. All of these
   calculations are very computationally demanding and are at the limits
   of the computational resources of the ABCC.
   Theoretical Investigation of the Catalytic Mechanism of Thymidine
   Phosphorylase
   Thymidine Phosphorylase catalyzes the reversible phosphorolysis
   reaction of thymidine and other pyrimidine 2'-deoxyribosides as shown
   below.
   [abashkin4.jpg]
   It has been proposed that inhibitors of the pyrimidine phosphorylases
   might be useful and chemotherapeutic agents by interfering with the
   salvage of pyrimidine bases. Inhibitors might also enhance the efficacy
   of pyrimidine analogs such as 5-fluoro-2'deoxyuridine or
   5-iodo-2'-deoxyuridine which are cleaved and thereby inactivated y
   pyrimidine nucleoside phosphorylases. It has also been recently
   reported that thymidine phosphorylase (dThyPase) is up-regulated in
   human colon cancer and that this overexpression correlates with
   increased tumor microvessel density. Several known substrate mimic
   inhibitors of thymidine phosphorylase are all very weak inhibitors of
   this enzyme. However, to our knowledge, there have not been any
   attempts to design a transition state analog inhibitor for thymidine
   phosphorylase. [abashkin1.jpg] The goal of the present theoretical work
   is to attempt the design the inhibitors which are transition state
   mimics for Human Thymidine Phosphorylase.
   We have used a recent X-ray crystal structure for E. Coli thymidine
   phosphorylase as a starting point in our investigation. Homology
   modeling of human thymidine phosphorylase indicates an exact match with
   the E. Coli enzyme for the residues contained in the active site of the
   enzyme. Molecular dynamics and molecular mechanics were used to obtain
   a model for the active site with the docked substrates (Figure F-1.).
   Density functional quantum chemical calculations, an ab initio method
   that allows the modeling of more atoms than traditional ab initio
   methods, was used to explore various mechanistic pathways for the
   catalyzed reaction and to locate possible transition states. In the
   published crystal structure of the enzyme the phosphate group is
   situated for away from the glycosidic bond that it attacks, and is
   firmly anchored to a group of charged residues and other potential
   hydrogen bonding residues. Thus, making an indirect attack appears to
   be one possible mechanism. However, it has been proposed that the
   catalytic reaction proceeds by a direct attack on the C1 carbon of the
   glycosidic bond. [abashkin2.jpg] Therefore, we considered both a direct
   and an indirect reaction scheme. In all cases we found that the
   catalytic reaction requires protonation of thymine in the 2 position
   prior to cleavage of the glycosidic bond.
   Two possible transition states were located. The first corresponds to a
   direct nucleophilic attack on the glycosidic bond (SN1) and the second
   to an indirect attach at 3'-OH of the deoxyribosyl ring (SN2). In the
   vase of a direct nucleophilic attack (Figure F-2a.), the phosphate
   group weakens the glycosidic bond forming an oxycarbocation at the C1'
   position which then reacts with the negatively charged phosphate. This
   transition state directly leads to the products and the corresponding
   reaction pathway seems intuitively reasonable from the chemical point
   of view. However, docking this transition state into the active site of
   dThyPase in the available crystal structure shows that the phosphate is
   located quite far from the serine residues that form the putative
   phosphate binding site. Thus, the significant displacement of the
   phosphate group from the binding site may complicate the performance of
   the reaction.
   In the case of the indirect attack (Figure F-2b.) the phosphate attacks
   the 3'-OH of the ribosyl ring removing a proton and breaks the
   glycosidic bond. Additional rotation of the ribosyl ring is required
   after the cleavage of the glycosidic bond to put the C1' of the
   carbocation and the phosphate group close enough to obtain the
   products. In this reaction pathway the phosphate remains closer to its
   binding site in the enzyme structure. [abashkin3.jpg] The
   characterization of the complete reaction profile for this system is
   limited to about 60 heavy atoms and required 1,000's of hours of the
   Cray Y-MP and J-90's.
   In our restricted model both transition state structures are
   characterized by practically the same values of absolute energy. Thus,
   further experimental and theoretical work is required to verify the
   proposed mechanistic pathway. One factor which complicates our work is
   that the enzyme may be in a different conformation than found in this
   particular crystal structure. One structural possibility is that there
   is a rigid domain movement which would close the enzyme. If that is the
   case, then the phosphate would be placed closer to the glycosidic bond
   and a direct attack would be more feasible. We are trying to model this
   conformational change in the enzyme by molecular dynamics. Still, it
   should be possible from our modeling and calculations to examine
   databases for lead compounds corresponding to either a SN1 or SN2
   reaction transition state.
   Benefits of Scalable Increases in Compute Power
   The computational investigation of this limited model of Thymidine
   Phosphorylase required approximately 1500 CPU hours on the Cray-YMP to
   complete. To model this process with a larger, and more complete,
   active site model, including nearby protein residues, reactants, and
   some solvent interactions, over 250 heavy atoms are required with a
   concomitant increase in CPU time to over one million Cray-YMP hours.
   Inclusion of these additional environmental effects in the reaction
   model will allow the elucidation of individual contributions to the
   overall reaction profile. Such information will allow more effective
   design of transition state and mechanism-based inhibitors and enzyme
   reactions in the future. Therefore, a computational speed-up of three
   orders of magnitude is required to initiate selective investigations of
   there processes using realistic models. To make such calculations
   routine, computers that operate in the 10-100 teraflop range will be
   necessary.
