http://www.phoenix.gov/MGRREPT/index.html

   City of Phoenix

     [cmgcoversmall.jpg]

                         City Manager Executive Report

   I. Background

   II. Organizational Indicators

   III. External Indicators:
   (requires Adobe Acrobat Reader)

     Aviation

     Neighborhood Services

     Community and Economic Development

     Parks, Recreation and Library

     Development Services

     Planning

     Family Advocacy Center

     Police

     Fire

     Public Defender

     Housing

     Public Transit

     Human Services

     Public Works

     Municipal Court

     Street Transportation

     Water Services

   IV. Internal Indicators:
   (requires Adobe Acrobat Reader)

     Arts Commission

     Equal Opportunity

     Budget and Research

     Finance

     City Auditor

     Information Technology

     City Clerk

     Law

     Engineering and Architectural Services

     Personnel

     Environmental Programs

     Youth and Education Office

Background

     The City Manager Executive Report provides policy makers and
     managers with comprehensive and timely executive level information
     to evaluate the progress of City programs and activities, determine
     the effectiveness of resource utilization, and identify strengths,
     weaknesses and opportunities in the organization. The report also
     provides checkpoints for planning, forecasting, and budgeting.

     The response to this report has been extraordinary! We continue to
     receive requests for this report worldwide!

     We continually strive to improve the City Manager Executive report.
     Over the past few years, we have transformed the departmental
     performance measures to now report more than 60 percent focus on
     results. In fact, we received an "A" rating in the Governing
     Magazine Grade the Cities Survey in the area of Managing for
     Results. We developed Organizational indicators based on input from
     citizen focus groups and added new sections as functions within the
     City Manager's Office began to develop performance indicators.

     But as one of the Visions and Values states - "We learn, change and
     improve" we felt that we could still improve this report in the area
     of communication. We wanted every employee, as well as every citizen
     to know how we are doing.

     Therefore, we are proud to announce that the City Manager Executive
     Report has been redesigned and is now available electronically.

     Return to top

                              [Back]
                              [Privacy Policy]

   © Copyright, 2002, City of Phoenix
   Last Modified on 12/03/2001 12:56:06
