http://ecolloq.gsfc.nasa.gov/archive/1998-Spring/sched.html


                        Goddard Engineering Colloquia

                            Spring 1998 Schedule

   All colloquia are held at 3:30 p. m. on Mondays in the Building 3
   Auditorium, unless otherwise indicated below. Any changes in the
   schedule will be indicated on this page with the minimum possible
   delay.

   NOTE: Readers are encouraged to print and post the announcements
   pointed to under "Topic" in the table below. For best printing results
   using Netscape Navigator, the suggested browser font size setting is
   12. For other browsers, it may be necessary to experiment. Feedback
   concerning printing problems would be welcomed by the author of these
   web pages.

   NOTE: Information to update the vacant slots in the table below will be
   provided as soon as it becomes available. Thank you for your patience.

   Date Topic Speaker
   February 2
   Special Event:
   40th Anniversary of the
   Launch of Explorer I  In the Beginning...Explorers Norman F. Ness
   University of Delaware
   February 17
   Technology Forum  "Phase Retrieval, Wavefront Sensing, & Optical
   Control Systems"
   "Regional Validation Centers Manage Realtime Access to Satellite Data"
   "Innovative Uses for TDRSS" Richard Lyon, GSFC
   Robert Cromp, GSFC
   David Israel, GSFC
   March 16  Star Trek Science Logs: Exploring the Boundries Between
   Science Fiction and Science Fact Andre Bormanis
   Science Consultant, Star Trek
   March 23  MAP Anisotropy Experiment David Wilkinson
   Princeton University
   March 30 Engineering Aerospace Software: From FORTRAN to Java and
   Beyond! Tim Korson
   Senior Partner, Software Architects
   April 6  Longitude Dava Sobel
   Science Writer
   April 13  The Politics of Space Science Funding Brenda Forman
   Lockheed/Martin Corporation
   April 20 Breakthrough Discoveries from Hubble Bob Williams
   Space Telescope Science Institute
   April 27  Documenting the African-American Experience with Technology
   Carroll Pursell
   Case Western Univ.
   May 4  An Astronaut's View of the Planet Earth Mary L. Cleave
   GSFC, Former Astronaut
   May 11  Hybrid Electric Vehicles Victor Wouk
   U.S. technical advisor to the IEC committee
   May 18  Single-Bubble Sonoluminescence and Liquid Fracture Andrea
   Prosperetti
   Johns Hopkins University
   May 25
   No Colloquium (Holiday)
   June 1  Science and the Future of Cities James Trefil
   George Mason University
   June 8 -- Bldg. 8 Auditorium

   Return to Engineering Colloquium home page at
   http://ecolloq.gsfc.nasa.gov

   Notice: Nothing appearing in these pages is to be construed as an
   endorsement by NASA.
