http://wsom.nws.noaa.gov/manual/CHAPTERE/NE417312.HTML

   Issue Date     Org. Code        NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE   Part
   Chap.
   4-30-73        W22                     Operations Manual
                 E         41

                COLLECTION AND PROCESSING OF HYDROLOGIC DATA

   Table of Contents:

   1.    Purpose

   2.    River, Rainfall and Evaporation Data

           2.1    WS Form E-14, River and Rainfall Report

               2.1.1     River and Rainfall Reporting Instructions
               2.1.2     River and Rainfall Telephone Report Forms

       2.2     WS Form E-15, Record of River and Climatological
   Observations

               2.2.1       Preparation
               *2.2.2     Routing
               *2.2.3     Quality Control of River Data

       2.3     WS Form E-16, Record of Rainfall Reporter

               2.3.1     Preparation
               2.3.2     Routing

       2.4     WS Form E-22, Record of Evaporation and Climatological
   Observations
               2.4.1       Preparation
               *2.4.2   Routing
               2.4.3     Quality Control

   3     Monthly Reports of River and Flood Conditions

       3.1     WS Form E-5, Monthly Report of River and Flood Conditions

           3.1.1   River Conditions
           3.1.2    Flood Conditions

       *3.2     WS Form E-3, Flood Stage Report
       3.3      WS Form E-7, Flood Damage Report
       *3.4    WS Form E-6, Comparative Crest Stage Data

           3.4.1      Stations to be Correlated
           *3.4.2    Data to be Correlated
   3.5    WS Form E-4, River Forecast Verification Report

           3.5.1    River Forecast Centers
           3.5.2    River District Offices

   4.    Supplemental Precipitation Data Survey

       4.1     Responsibility for Making a Survey
       4.2    Conditions Requiring a Survey
   *4.3      Collection of Data
       4.4    Publication of Data
     __________________________________________________________________

   1. Purpose. This chapter describes the collection and processing of
   hydrologic data by or for the National Weather Service.

   2. River, Rainfall and Evaporation Data. The following forms are used
   by the Substation Observer for recording river, rainfall and
   evaporation data and reporting these data to the Supervising office:

     a. WS Form E-14, River and Rainfall Report.

     b. WS Form E-15, Record of River and Climatological Observations.

     c. WS Form E-16, Record of Rainfall Reporter.

     d. WS Form E-22, Record of Evaporation and Climatological
     Observations.

   2.1     WS Form E-14 River and Rainfall Report. This form is used by
   the Substation Observer to report river and/or rainfall data to the
   River District Office (RDO) or to the collection office on a daily or
   criteria basis.

   2.1.1     River and Rainfall reporting instructions. Reporting
   instructions are available for three types of hydrologic substations.
   They tell the observer when to take his observation; when and where to
   report; what to report; and how to prepare his report. These
   instructions are given to the Substation Observer at the time of his
   appointment and are reviewed with him during each annual visit, as
   follows:

     a. Rainfall Station

     1. WS Form E-11
     2. WS Form E-11a

     b. River Station

     1. WS Form E-12
     2. WS Form E-12a

     c. River and Rainfall Station

     1. WS Form E-13

   2.1.2     River and Rainfall Telephone Report Forms. Three types of
   forms are available for recording river and rainfall reports received
   by the RDO and RFC by telephone. These forms are similar in that the
   headings on each are arranged horizontally and correspond to the same
   numbered headings given on WS Form E-14. The use of any one of these
   forms will enable the recipient of the telephoned report to make sure
   that the observer has not omitted any part of his report.

     a. WS Form E-14a, River and Rainfall Telephone Report (long form).
     This is a multiple entry form for recording telephoned reports from
     the entire network of observers each day.

     b. WS Form E-14b, River and Rainfall Telephone Report (short form).
     This is a single entry form and is designed for recording only one
     river and/or rainfall report.

     c. WS Form E-14c, River and Rainfall Telephone Report (visible card
     file). This is a multiple entry card form, designed to be used with
     a special holder and filing cabinet.

   2.2     WS Form E-15 Record of River and Climatological Observations.
   This is the official form used by the National Weather Service for
   Substation Observers to record hydrologic observations for permanent
   record purposes. This form provides space for the entry of river stages
   and conditions, temperature, precipitation, snow cover and special
   river and rainfall observations. WS Form E-15 is used by all Substation
   Observers in the hydrologic reporting networks.

   2.2.1     Preparation. Instructions for the preparation of WS Form E-15
   by the Substation Observer are given on the cover of each pad of forms.
   Provision has been made for the entry of two station names for river
   and rainfall stations, when the gages are so located that the river
   station has one name and the Climatological station another. Generally,
   the river station is more permanently fixed and in many cases it is
   also a gauging point for other agencies. Only rarely will the name of a
   river station be changed. The name of the Climatological station is
   considered the primary name for administrative purposes. This name is
   entered in the space provided in the heading and in the station block
   at the bottom of the form

   If two names apply to the station, both are entered in the proper
   spaces in the heading and only the Climatological station name is
   entered at the bottom of the form. If it is a river station only, the
   name of the station is entered in the appropriate space in the heading
   and at the bottom of the form. Before mailing or delivering a new pad
   of forms to the observer the index number is stamped in the lower right
   hand corner of each sheet.

   *2.2.2     Routing. WS Form E-15 is routed according to the following
   categories: river data only; river and Climatological data;and
   Climatological data only.

     a. River Data only.

   1. At the end of each month, the RDO makes necessary adjustments to the
   river data (2.2.3). Original copies of WS Form E-15 are arranged
   alphabetically by states and mailed monthly to the National Climatic
   Center (NCC), marked for the attention of the Climatography Branch
   (D522).

   2.    The RDO retains the carbon copy.

     b. River and Climatological Data, and Climatological Data only.

     1. At the end of each month, the RDO makes necessary adjustments to
     the temperature, precipitation, and river stage data. Forms in this
     category must be checked and forwarded to the NCC on the same day
     they are received in order to meet the Climatological Data
     publication schedule.

     2. The RDO retains the first carbon copy and sends the original to
     the NCC. A second carbon copy is prepared at the discretion of the
     Regional Hydrologist and distributed as required.

     3. After processing, the original forms are retained by NCC.

     4. The RDO checks the river stage data, using the retained copy. If
     it is determined that river stage observations are in error, a
     supplemental WS Form E-15 will be prepared with the corrected
     observation and forwarded to NCC for inclusion with the original
     observation form.

   *2 2 3     Quality Control of River Data.

     a. The RDO examines each WS Form E-15 for completeness and accuracy
     before forwarding it to the NCC. This review includes adjusting or
     completing river stage data as necessary, as well as insuring that
     all pertinent items in the heading and at the bottom of the form are
     complete and correct.

     b. If the stage is zero, it is entered as 0.0 Stages below zero are
     preceded by a minus sign. Occasionally extreme low stages occur, and
     the gage does not extend into the water, due possibly to (1) sand
     bar covering lower end of gage, (2) shifting of channel-away from
     gage at low stages, or (3) the river is dry. Anytime any of these
     conditions exist, an asterisk (*) is entered in the ,"Gage Reading"
     column and the conditions noted in "Remarks." Stages are examined
     for day-today consistency.

     c. Wire-weight river gages are equipped with a reference bar known
     as a "check-bar" to detect any error that may develop in the gage
     from stretching of the wire cable, slippage of the weight on the
     cable, etc. When installing a wire-weight gage, determine the
     correct check-bar reading by leveling from bench marks; unless the
     gage is disturbed, the check-bar reading will thereafter remain the
     same. Record the normal check-bar reading for each wire-weight gage
     on the Report of River Gage

   Station. The Substation Observer enters the check-bar readings on WS
   Form E-15 on the 15th and on the last day of the current month. He also
   enters the last day reading on the form for the following month. If the
   observed check-bar reading varies 0.06 foot or more from the correct
   value, the RDO should make corrections to the observed stage for each
   day as illustrated in the following examples:


                                                                A

                                                                     B

                         Correct check-bar reading

                                                                30.10

                                                                     28.95

                         Observed check-bar reading

                                                                30.24

                                                                     28.72

                         Difference

                                                                -.14

                                                                     +.23

                         Observed river stage

                                                                6.87

                                                                     10.24

                         Adjustment

                                                                -.14

                                                                     _+.23

                         Correct river stage (reduced to tenths)

                                                                6.7

                                                                     10.5

   Occasionally the observed check-bar reading may change radically. In
   such a case the RDO will determine, if possible, whether this change
   occurred on a certain day or was the result of a progressive change
   over a period of days O If it can be determined that the change
   occurred on a definite date, corrections (if 0.06 foot or more) should
   be applied to gage readings subsequent to that date. If the date of
   change cannot be determined, or if it is known that the change occurred
   gradually, the correction should be prorated for each day of the period
   until the gage is reset to the correct check-bar reading.

   For river gages other than wire-weight type, corrections are usually
   determined by leveling, and are applied to gage readings in a manner
   similar to that for wire-weight gages.

   * d. On the days when records of river stages are missing,
   interpolations may be made, provided a fairly stable relationship
   exists between the gage in question and a nearby gage, or reference
   mark, for which reliable readings are available. All interpolated
   readings should be clearly identified with an asterisk and an
   appropriate footnote.

   Special observations of precipitation, stages, and crest stages are
   entered in the "Special Observations" column of WS Form E-150.  The RDO
   carefully checks these observations for accuracy and makes sure that
   all crests and highest observed stages are clearly identified. Crest
   stages obtained by leveling to high water marks should be footnoted to
   indicate that fact.

   * f. Correlation of monthly crest stages with cooperating agencies is
   not generally required. Exceptions may occur in the fulfillment of RDO
   service responsibility and for crest data to be used in Regional or
   National Disaster Survey Reports.

   g. The RDO makes sure that the appropriate letters referring to the
   condition of the river at the gage are entered correctly in the
   "Condition" column. If letters are omitted or incorrectly entered by
   the Substation Observer, the proper letter may often be deduced from
   notes in the "Remarks." Letter "A" is used when the river where the
   gage is located is obstructed by rough ice. It is then usually
   impossible to obtain a true reading of the water level from an outside
   staff or wire weight gage. In such cases, stages, if entered in the
   "Gage reading" column, should be deleted. If, however, readings are
   obtained from a gage operated from a float in a well, the stages may be
   used together with letter "A," unless the gage well becomes frozen, in
   which case the stage is to be omitted.

   * h. The RDO is responsible for obtaining the highest annual stage for
   all National Weather Service gages that are official forecast points in
   its area of responsibility. The highest annual stage should agree with
   the highest stages entered on WS Form E-15 or E-17. These data will be
   forwarded by the RDO to the NCC thru the Regional Headquarters annually
   (WSOM E-40,   2.1).

   2.3 WS Form E-16 Record of Rainfall Reporter . This form is used by the
   Rainfall Reporter, whose primary function is to report heavy rain fall
   for flood warning purposes. The report is considered unofficial for
   record purposes, as the reporter uses a nonstandard rain gage.

   2.3.1 Preparation. Entries on this form are made in accordance with
   instructions issued by the Supervising Office. The rain gage is read at
   a regular time each morning and emptied only at that time. Rain fall
   amounts reported for special observations are entered in the remarks
   column. Monthly totals are not computed.

   2.3.2 Routing. The Rainfall Reporter mails the original form and one
   copy to the Supervising Office at the end of the month. The Supervising
   Office retains the original and, on the day of   receipt, mails the
   carbon copy to the office designated by the Regional Hydrologist.

   2.4     WS Form E-22 Record of Evaporation and Climatological
   Observations. This is the official permanent record form used by the
   National Weather Service for substations measuring evaporation. This
   form provides for the entry of evaporation, temperature, precipitation,
   humidity, wind and water temperature data. The Regional Substation
   Management Section stamps the station index number on the blank forms
   before mailing them to the Substation Observer.

   2.4.1     Preparation. Instructions for the preparation of WS Form E-22
   by the Substation Observer are given on the cover of each pad of
   forms. This form is prepared monthly whether evaporation measurements
   are taken or omitted during the winter season.

   * 2.4.2 Routing. The substation observer mails the original and one
   carbon copy directly to the NCC at the end of the month. Substations
   equipped with water temperature recorders mail the charts along with WS
   Forms E-22 to NCC. The NCC mails the carbon copy of WS Form E-22 after
   review, to the office designated by the Regional Hydrologist.

   2.4.3 Quality Control. The NCC checks, tabulates,and makes adjustments
   or corrections to WS Form E-22.

   3.     Monthly Reports of River and Flood Conditions. The following
   forms are used by the RDO and/or RFC in reporting river and flood
   conditions, flood damages, comparative crest stages and verification of
   forecasts within its geographical area of responsibility;

     a. WS Form E-5, Monthly Report of River and Flood Conditions.

     b. WS Form E-3, Flood Stage Report.

     c. WS Form E-7, Flood Damage Report.

     d. WS Form E-6, Comparative Crest Stage Data.

     e. WS Form E-4, River Forecast Verification Report.

   3.1 WS Form E-5 Monthly Report of River and Flood Conditions. The RDO
   prepares a monthly report of river and flood conditions using WS Form
   E-5. This report is sent to the Office of Hydrology (W22) with copies
   to the appropriate Regional Hydrologist and RFC by the 15th of the
   following month. Additional copies of the report may be sent to other
   offices based on local agreements.

   3.1.1     River Conditions. When no floods have occurred, the RDO will
   include in the monthly report (WS Form E-5) miscellaneous hydrologic
   and Climatological conditions such as significant rises, record low
   stages, ice conditions, opening and closing of the river to navigation,
   snow cover. droughts and hydrologic products issued (WSOM E-10).

   3.1.2     Flood Conditions. When a flood occurs, the RDO prepares a
   descriptive summary of the flooding. The report (WS Form E-5) should be
   comprehensive but concise and will include the following:

     a. A statement as to the rivers, areas, and states in which the
     floods occurred, the period of flooding, and its magnitude.
     Interesting or unusual features are given, and if floods are of
     unusual severity, a tabular comparison with past floods is included.

     b. A summary relative to the rainfall or other conditions causing
     the floods, indicating the approximate average precipitation over
     the basins.

     c. A brief summary of flood damages in general terms, indicating
     location and extent, number of deaths by states, and total damage
     (if available). Monetary savings resulting from forecasts issued are
     included whether or not any damage resulted.

     d. A general statement as to warnings and forecasts issued and
     effectiveness of the service.

     e. Selected newspaper clippings and photographs on WS Form A-2. All
     clippings and  photographs should be properly titled and dated.

     f. Flood stage report (3.2).

   * 3.2 WS Form E-3 Flood Stage Report. This form is prepared by the RDO
   whenever a river crests at or above flood stage. Rivers and stations in
   flood are listed in a downstream order similar to that used in Daily
   River Stages, River Forecasts Provided by the National Weather Service,
   and RDO schematic diagrams. Crest stages and duration above flood stage
   are carefully checked. Inclusive dates for the duration of flooding are
   shown for each station. Days with flood stage or higher will be
   considered in determining the duration of the flood. This form is
   submitted with WS Form E-5 when floods occur (3.1.2).

   3.3     WS Form E-7, Flood Damage Report. This form is prepared by the
   RDO whenever flooding occurs and there is some damage and/or loss of
   life. A separate form is used for each principal river on which floods
   are reported. The flood damage report is coordinated with other
   agencies, such as the Corps of Engineers before it is submitted to the
   Office of Hydrology (W22). A statement to that effect is included in
   the report. The date of the flood and the river or creek causing flood
   damage are indicated on each form.  If flooding occurs, but no damage
   or loss of life resulted, it is not necessary to prepare this form. A
   statement to that effect and any monetary savings resulting from the
   forecasts issued are included on WS Form E-5 (3.1.2). The flood damage
   report may be submitted by the RDO at the same time as the report on
   river and flood conditions (WS Form E-5), or within 2 months.

   * 3.4 WS Form E-6. Comparative Crest Stage Data. This form is prepared
   by the RDO to coordinate crest stage data with other agencies, such as
   the Corps of Engineers and the Geological Survey. Comparative Crest
   Stage data are forwarded to the Office of Hydrology (W22), Regional
   Hydrologist, and the appropriate RFC whenever data are correlated
   (3.4.2).

   3.4.1    Stations to be Correlated.

     a. Gages at the same site and datum, or same gage used by two
     agencies.

     b. Gages at the same site but set at different datum.

     c. Gages not at the same site, but in the same reach of the river
     free from natural or artificial controls or intervening tributaries.

   * 3.4.2     Data to be Correlated.

     a. The highest stage or crest to be used in Regional or National
     Disaster Survey Reports.

     b. The highest stage or crest needed to fulfill RDO service
     responsibility.

   3.5     WS Form E-4, River Forecast Verification Report. A flood
   forecast, to serve its purpose, must be timely, complete, and
   relatively accurate. The River Forecast Verification Report is valuable
   in that it provides objective and factual verification on specific
   floods. These verification reports also furnish a means of evaluating
   the technical proficiency of the hydrologic Program.

   3.5.1     River Forecast Centers.  The RFC prepares a report of river
   forecasts issued for its area of responsibility using WS Form E-40 In
   general all forecasts of flood stage and higher, or forecasts of rises
   eventually leading to flood stage,and comparative observed data, are
   tabulated on this form. In some cases, especially along larger streams,
   a representative selection of river stations is satisfactory. Routine
   forecasts (daily or extended), for operational purposes, may be handled
   separately and need not be listed unless specifically requested. This
   report is sent to the Office of Hydrology (W22) within 2 months after
   the end of the month with a copy to the Regional Hydrologist.

   3.5.2     River District Offices. The RDO, served by an RFC, prepares
   WS Form E-4 only for adapted forecasts issued, based on RFC forecasts.
   The RDO, not served by an RFC, prepares WS Form E-4 for all river
   forecasts issued for its district. This report is sent to the Office of
   Hydrology (W22) and Regional Hydrologist with WS Form E-5 (3.1).

   4.     Supplemental Precipitation Data Survey. A field survey is made
   after periods of unusually heavy precipitation to obtain all possible
   information as to total precipitation amounts, and other pertinent data
   that would be helpful in the reconstruction of the storm pastern.  A
   field survey may also be made to determine the water equivalent of a
   heavy snow cover that may cause severe flooding.. The surveys are
   usually made in cooperation with other Federal and state agencies, such
   as the Corps of Engineers, Geological Survey, Bureau of  Reclamation,
   Soil Conservation, etc. Close cooperation between various agencies must
   be maintained to reduce the occurrence of data voids and to effect
   adequate planning and supervision of these surveys.

   4.1     Responsibility for Making a Survey. Supplemental precipitation
   data surveys are made under the direction of the Regional Headquarters.
   The Regional Hydrologist initiates action for a survey and represents
   the National Weather Service, in the cooperation with the other Federal
   and state agencies having surveyors in the field. The Regional
   Headquarters calls on the Substation Network Specialist, the RFC, the
   RDO, the WSO, and others to assist in the survey. These surveys have
   high priority and are given precedence over routine duties, except
   observing and forecasting.

   4.2     Conditions Requiring a Survey. Some of the conditions that may
   require a supplemental precipitation data survey or a snow depth and
   water equivalent survey are as follows:

       a.     A storm. of  flood-producing proportions exceeds previous
   records.

       b.     A severe storm occurs over an area where the previous record
   data are inadequate for study of excessively heavy precipitation.

       c.     A storm causes severe flooding with major damage and/or loss
   of life.

       d.     Intense rain occurs over a small drainage area where data
   are required for the design of future projects by other Federal
   agencies.

       e.     Detailed analysis of excessive precipitation is required by
   other Federal agencies for design of major structures such as dams or
   reservoirs.

       f.     Notification of a severe storm is received from a field
   office.

       g.     Reports indicate a snow cover containing sufficient water to
   cause severe flooding under critical melting conditions.

   * 4.3     Collection of Data.

   * a. The location of sampling sites may be obtained on a house-to-house
   canvass. City and town officials, postmasters, and local newspapers can
   usually furnish leads to persons who may have the required information.
   In sparsely settled areas, contacts may be made at the general store or
   garage. In rural areas farmers are interested in the effects of the
   storm on their own operations and usually have open containers. Other
   government agencies may have gages in the storm area. WS Form E-21,
   Precipitation Data Survey, should be used for recording data collected
   during the survey.

       b.     An effective method of collecting information is through TV,
   radio, and press appeals for letter or post card reports. The appeal
   may be brief; it should emphasize the importance of the survey; and
   urge persons who believe they have a valuable record to notify the
   nearest National Weather Service Office (WSO). They should be
   instructed to measure the depth of accumulated rainfall in containers
   and include a sketch of the container, giving the dimensions. The
   amount, time, duration, and date of heaviest rainfall should be
   reported. Other pertinent information may be added. All replies should
   be assembled by the field station and mailed to Regional Headquarters.

   4.4     Publication of Data. Supplemental precipitation data collected
   for the storm are usually published in the regular monthly state issue
   of Climatological Data. Before the data are forwarded to the NCC for
   publication, the precipitation data are checked and edited by an office
   assigned the responsibility by the Regional Headquarters.

   WSOM Issuance
   73-12    4-30-73
