http://kyl.senate.gov/p103001.htm

                               [presshed.gif]

   FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
   October 30, 2001
   CONTACT:
   Matthew Latimer or
   Andrew Wilder, (202) 224-4521

            Kyl Hails President's Efforts To Examine Visa Policy
       Kyl, Feinstein To Introduce Legislation Tightening Policies On
                               Non-Immigrants

   WASHINGTON -- U.S. Sen Jon Kyl (R-AZ) today commended President Bush
   for his commitment to examine a defective U.S. visa policy that has
   allowed suspected terrorists to sneak into the country and elude
   tracking and detection. Kyl is introducing legislation with Sen. Dianne
   Feinstein (D-Calif.) to better track non-immigrants within the country
   and keep terrorists out.

   "We must repair gaping holes in our visa policies that have allowed
   people who intend to do us harm to travel unfettered throughout the
   United States," said Kyl . "To this day, the INS cannot account for how
   several of the September 11 hijackers entered the country, and others
   were here on expired visas."

   This week, President Bush expressed support for ideas similar to those
   contained in the Feinstein-Kyl legislation, including better tracking
   of foreigners in the country on student visas, the use of new
   technologies to create fraud-proof visa cards, and the creation of a
   more centralized database on non-immigrants shared by federal agencies.

   Specifically, the legislation would:
     * Mandate the creation of a centralized, comprehensive database of
       visa holders and other non-U.S. citizens who enter the nation.
     * Direct INS to upgrade its own electronic data system to include
       biometric data on all foreign nationals applying to enter the U.S.
     * Require within 60 days that countries wishing to participate in the
       visa waiver program first provide tamper-resistant,
       machine-readable passports.
     * Require federal identification documents be fraud- and
       tamper-resistant, contain biometric data, and, if applicable,
       include the visa's expiration date.
     * Stop all student visas to individuals from countries on the State
       Department's list of terrorist-sponsoring states - more than 16,000
       in the last decade.
     * Establish strict informational requirements on INS forms to prevent
       student visa fraud, require INS to conduct background checks prior
       to issuing foreign student visas, and require educational
       institutions to communicate information about foreign students to
       the INS, particularly if those students fail to regularly atten d
       classes or don't show up.
     * Authorize additional U.S. State Department consular personnel.

                                    # # #

                                     ###

   [arrow.gif] Return to Press Office
