http://www.nbc.gov/home/disclaimer.html

                       NBC Home Page NBC Advertisement
     NBC Home Page NBC Products and Services NBC News NBC Employees NBC
                             Contact Us NBC Help
                                   red bar



   site navigation
   Introduction
   Who is NBC
   What Does NBC Provide
   From Our Director
   Strategic Plan
   Policies & Procedure
   DOI Disclaimer
   DOI Privacy Statement
   Freedom Of Information Act
   Records Management Guidance
   Customers
   List of NBC Customers
   Welcome New Customers

                  DOI Disclaimer Statement for this Website

   Information presented on this website is considered public information
   and may be distributed or copied. Use of appropriate byline/photo/image
   credit is requested. We strongly recommend that USDOI data be acquired
   directly from a USDOI server and not through other sources that may
   change the data in some way. While USDOI makes every effort to provide
   accurate and complete information, various data such as names,
   telephone numbers, etc. may change prior to updating. USDOI welcomes
   suggestions on how to improve our home page and correct errors. USDOI
   provides no warranty, expressed or implied, as to the accuracy,
   reliability or completeness of furnished data.

   Some of the documents on this server may contain live references (or
   pointers) to information created and maintained by other organizations.
   Please note that USDOI does not control and cannot guarantee the
   relevance, timeliness, or accuracy of these outside materials.

   For site security purposes and to ensure that this service remains
   available to all users, this government computer system employs
   software programs to monitor network traffic to identify unauthorized
   attempts to upload or change information, or otherwise cause damage.
   Unauthorized attempts to upload information or change information on
   this website are strictly prohibited and may be punishable under the
   Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986 and the National Information
   Infrastructure Protection Act. Information may also be used for
   authorized law enforcement investigations.

        Home  | Text  | Search  | Policies  | Directions  | Site Map
