http://www.whitehouse.gov/news/releases/2002/01/20020112.html


   Skip to Content text only go to search President News Vice President
   History & Tours First Lady Search
   Welcome to the White House.
   Government Kids Only Espanol Contact Privacy Policy SiteMap
   __________ Search


   West Wing Connections
   Policies in Focus
   America Responds to Terrorism
   Homeland Security
   Economy & Budget
   Education Reform
   Medicare
   Social Security
   More Issues
   En Español

   News
   Current News
   Press Briefings
   Proclamations
   Nominations
   Executive Orders
   Radio Addresses
   Discurso Radial
   (en Español)
   Appointments
   Application
   Photos
   Photo of the President speaking to a Joint Session of Congress
   Photo Essays
   An American Response
   Standing for the Flag

   Home > News & Policies > Radio Address Archives Printer-Friendly
                                                   Version

                                                     For Immediate Release
                                             Office of the Press Secretary
                                                          January 12, 2002

   President Discusses Priorities in Radio Address

         listen Listen to the President's Remarks

   THE PRESIDENT:  Good morning.  We have entered a busy season here in
   Washington.  Soon, Congress will be back in session.  I will go to the
   Capitol to report on the state of our union and I will present a budget
   that sets the priorities of our government for fiscal year 2003.

   Our highest priorities are clear to all.  We must give our military
   every tool and weapon it needs to prevail in the war against
   terror.  We must strengthen our country's defenses against further
   attack, with a comprehensive program of homeland security.  And we must
   get our country's economy growing and creating jobs once again.

   The economy is a concern for all Americans, especially for those out of
   work.  These Americans need extra help.  My economic plan proposes an
   additional 13 weeks of unemployment insurance benefits for workers who
   have lost their jobs and direct assistance to protect their health
   insurance.

   My plan is based on the simple truth that people out of work need an
   unemployment check; but what they need even more is a steady
   paycheck.  So I have joined with Republicans and Democrats in proposing
   concrete steps to create more jobs and help spur more growth in the
   economy.  The House passed this plan.  The Senate needs to act on it.

   Difficult economic times brings hardship to many other Americans, as
   well:  single moms or disadvantaged young people trying to get into the
   work force.  My budget seeks to help them, too, by adding resources to
   vital programs that have proven their value.  One of our government's
   most effective services is the Women, Infants and Children program,
   which counsels mothers on nutrition and health care for their
   children.  In my budget for the coming fiscal year, I will propose an
   increase of $364 million for the WIC program.  This will be enough to
   serve nearly 8 million women and children each month.

   Another vital program is the Job Corp, which provides employment
   training to more than 72,000 disadvantaged young Americans.  In my
   budget, I will ask Congress for an additional $73 million to expand the
   good work of the Job Corp.  This will help to pay for new residential
   training centers.  We will also secure high school accreditation for
   Job Corps training so that more young people can have the advantage of
   a high school diploma.

   These are some of the elements of the budget I will be sending to
   Congress.  My budget focuses on the pressing needs of our country and
   on the basic needs of our citizens.  I am committed to building a
   strong economy that spreads its benefits to everyone.  This goal
   reaches beyond politics or party, and I'm confident that Congress will
   join me in the work ahead.

   Thank you for listening.

   END

   Printer-Friendly Version

   Picture of White House logo, which features the White House inside an
   oval.

   Press Briefings
   Press Briefing by White House Press Secretary
   Press Briefing Archives
   Radio Address
   President's Radio Address to the Nation
   Discurso Radial del Presidente a la Nacion
   Radio Address Archive
   Archivos - Discursos Radial del Presidente
   News & Speeches
   January 2002
   December 2001
   November 2001
   October 2001
   September 2001
   August 2001
   July 2001
   June 2001
   May 2001
   April 2001
   March 2001
   February 2001
   January 2001
   Proclamations
   National Mentoring Month
   Proclamation Archives
   Executive Orders
   Federal Facts
   Federal Statistics
   West Wing
   History

   President  |  Vice President  |  First Lady  |  Mrs. Cheney  |  News &
   Policies  |
   History & Tours |  Kids  |  Your Government  |  Appointments  |
   Contact |  Text only

   Accessibility  |  Search  |  Privacy Policy  |  Help
