http://ccr.nci.nih.gov/careers/positions.asp

   Link to National Cancer Institute Center for Cancer Research
   Link to Contact CCR Link to CCR Homepage Link to NCI home Link to NIH
   home
   _______________ Search

   Careers/Training


   Positions Available
   Postdoctoral Fellowships
   Student Programs
   CCR Trainees Assembly
   Trainees Assembly Retreat

   Positions Available at the Center for Cancer Research
   If you would like to post a position announcement on this page, please
   contact Ave Cline, acline@ncifcrf.gov, or Sue Fox, smfox@ncifcrf.gov.


   Postdoctoral Fellow

   Cancer and Cell Biology Branch, MOP

          Sonia B. Jakowlew, PhD     TGF-beta, molecular targets

   Cancer Genetics Branch, MOP

          Stan Lipkowitz, M.D., Ph.D.     epithelial cancer cell biology

   Cancer Therapeutics Branch, MOP

          Dr. Susan Bates     Molecular and Experimental Therapeutics
          Phillip A. Dennis, MD, PhD     Akt and lung tumorigenesis

   Experimental Immunology Branch

          Andre Nussenzweig, Ph.D.     DNA recombination/repair
          Paul A. Roche, Ph.D.     Antigen presentation,T lymphocyte
   activation

   Experimental Transplantation and Immunology Branch, MOP

          Dennis D. Hickstein, M.D.     Gene transfer into Hematopoietic
   Stem Cells
          Giovanna Tosato, M.D.     molec. aspects of tumor angiogenesis

   HIV and AIDS Malignancy Branch

          Steven Zeichner, M.D., Ph.D.     HIV, herpesvirus, & host cell
   gene expr.

   Metabolism Branch

          Jay A. Berzofsky, M.D., Ph.D.     antigen presentation,
   T-lymphocyte

   Pathology, Laboratory of

          Maryalice Stetler-Stevenson     B cell differentiation and
   lymphoma
          Patricia S. Steeg, Ph.D.     molec. biology of breast cancer
   metastasis
          Susan Mackem, M.D.,Ph.D.     regulation of embryonic limb
   development
          William G. Stetler-Stevenson, M.D., Ph.D.     tumor invasion,
   angiogenesis

   Pediatric Oncology Branch

          Jon M. Wigginton, M.D.     biologically-targeted therapies

   Basic Research Laboratory

          Al Fornace, M.D.     stress gene & cell cycle regulation
          Barbara K. Felber, PhD     SIV pathogenesis and immune responses
          Barbara K. Vonderhaar, Ph.D.     mammary prolactin autocrine
   system
          Barbara K. Vonderhaar, PhD     Prolactin,transgenic mice,breast
   cancer
          Carl C. Baker, M.D., Ph.D.     regulation of HPV gene expression
          David Salomon, Ph.D.     growth factors & mammary gland dev.
          Diana Linnekin, Ph.D.     molecular hematology of c-Kit
          Dolph Hatfield, Ph.D.     molec. biology of selenium
          Dolph Hatfield, PhD     Molecular biology of selenium metabolism
          Dr. Grace Yeh     Molecular regulation in carcinogenesis
          Francis W. Ruscetti, Ph.D.     TGF-beta regulation of
   hematopoiesis
          George N. Pavlakis, M.D., Ph.D     HIV regulation & pathogenesis
          George R. Beck, Jr.     Swi/Snf complex in cell growth diff.
          Kenneth H. Kraemer, M.D.     defective DNA repair & disease
          Nancy H. Colburn, Ph.D.     AP-1/NFkappaB-regulated
   transformation
          Raoul E. Benveniste, M.D., Ph.D.     molecular biology and
   evolution of retroviruses
          Ravi Dhar, Ph.D.     mRNA export in eukaryotic cells
          Robert Callahan, Ph.D.     molec. biol. of mammary gland
   tumorigenesis
          Sandra Ruscetti, Ph.D.     molecular pathogenesis of
   retroviruses

   Biochemistry, Laboratory of

          Florence Davidson, Ph.D.     apoptosis in photoreceptor neurons
          Michael Lichten, Ph.D.     yeast: meiosis, meiotic recomb.,
   struct.
          Sriram Subramaniam     Cryo electron microscopy

   Biosystems and Cancer, Laboratory of

          Vladimir Larionov, Ph.D.     human centromere: organization

   Cancer and Developmental Biology Laboratory

          Mark Lewandoski, Ph.D.     FGF signaling during embryogenesis

   Cell Biology, Laboratory of

          Suresh V. Ambudkar, Ph.D.     ABC transporters and multidrug
   resistance

   Cell Regulation and Carcinogenesis, Laboratory of

          Anita B. Roberts, Ph.D.     signal transduction: TGF-beta
   ligands

   Cellular and Molecular Biology, Laboratory of

          Carole A. Parent     Signal transduction, cell migration
          Ying Zhang, Ph.D.     function & regulation of Smad proteins

   Cellular Carcinogenesis and Tumor Promotion, Laboratory of

          Dr. Adam Glick     TGFbeta, epidermis, carcinogenesis
          Henry Hennings, Ph.D.     genes contributing to skin tumors
          Jonathan S. Wiest, Ph.D.     Tumor suppressor genes in lung
   tumorigenesis
          Miriam C. Poirier, Ph.D.     chemical carcinogens & DNA:
   interactions
          Peter M. Blumberg, Ph.D.     molec. biology, biochemical
   pharmacol.

   Cellular Oncology, Laboratory of

          Linda Wolff, Ph.D.     myeloid leukemia: oncogenes, suppressors

   Comparative Carcinogenesis, Laboratory of

          Robert C. Moschel, Ph.D.     synthesis of chemotherapy drugs

   Experimental Immunology, Laboratory of

          Daniel W. McVicar     Signal transduction, Inhibitory Receptors
          Robert Wiltrout, Ph.D.     dev. of molec. vaccines, gene
   therapies
          Stephen K. Anderson, Ph.D.     dev. & function of NK cells

   Gene Regulation and Chromosome Biology Laboratory

          David J. Garfinkel, Ph.D.     genomic instability in yeast

   Human Carcinogenesis, Laboratory of

          Eric Huang     Tumor hypoxia and Angiogenesis
          Stefan Ambs     Molecular epidemiology

   Immune Cell Biology, Laboratory of

          Remy Bosselut     Immunology: T-lymphocyte development

   Immunobiology, Laboratory of

          Berton Zbar, M.D.     Mouse cancer genetics

   Macromolecular Crystallography Laboratory

          Alexander Wlodawer, Ph.D.     enzyme structural studies: cancer,
   AIDS

   Metabolism, Laboratory of

          Kyung S. Lee, Ph.D.     polo kinases: mitotic progression

   Molecular Biology, Laboratory of

          Sheue-yann Cheng, Ph.D.     Molecular Endocrinology
          Sue Wickner, Ph.D.     ATP-dependent molecular chaperones

   Molecular Immunoregulation, Laboratory of

          Jonathan Keller     Molecular Hematology: Stem Cell Growth Reg
          Joost J. Oppenheim, M.D.     Immunology, Chemokine Receptor
          Joost J. Oppenheim, MD     Immunology,Chemokine Receptor,Mol.
   Mechanism
          Kathrin Muegge     Study the role of LSH in genomic methylation
          William L. Farrar     Transcription Factors, Molecular Cloning

   Molecular Pharmacology, Laboratory of

          Mirit I. Aladjem, Ph.D.     DNA Replication
          William Bonner, Ph.D.     histone H2AX phosphorylation

   Receptor Biology and Gene Expression, Laboratory of

          Keith Robertson     DNA Methylation and Cancer

   Regulation of Cell Growth Laboratory

          Ira Daar, Ph.D.     Eph & FGF Receptor Signaling During Develop.
          Peter F. Johnson, Ph.D.     C/EBP transcription factors & cell
   growth
          Philipp Kaldis. Ph.D.     cyclin-dependent kinases & the cell
   cycle

   Structural Biophysics Laboratory

          R. Andrew Byrd, Ph.D.     structural biology: signal
   transduction

   Tumor Immunology and Biology, Laboratory of

          Helen Sabzevari, Ph.D.     regulation of naive & memory T cells
          Jeffrey Schlom, Ph.D.     dev. recombinant anti-cancer vaccines

   HIV Drug Resistance Program

          Alan Rein, Ph.D.     retroviral replication: assembly
          Stephen H. Hughes, Ph.D.     structure/function of HIV-1 RT
          Stuart F.J. Le Grice, Ph.D.     HIV-1 reverse transcription,
   lentiviruse
          Vinay K. Pathak, Ph.D     retroviral variation
          Wei-Shau Hu, Ph.D.     retroviral replication

   Molecular Targets Drug Discovery Program

          Dr. Toshiyuki Mori     Drug discovery; molecular biology

   Surgery Branch

          David S. Schrump, M.D.
          David S. Schrump, M.D.
          Steven A. Rosenberg, MD, PhD     immunotherapy of cancer

   Regulation of Protein Function Laboratory

          Allan Weissman, M.D.     Ubiquitination and cell biology

   Research Fellow

   Basic Research Laboratory

          Sandra Ruscetti, Ph.D.     molec. pathogenesis of retroviruses

   Biosystems and Cancer, Laboratory of

          Vladimir Larionov, Ph.D.     human centromere: organization

   Gene Regulation and Chromosome Biology Laboratory

          Amar Klar     Yeast genetics, recombination
          David J. Garfinkel     Yeast Genetics & Molecular Biology

   Technician

   Neuro-oncology Branch

          Luan Lee     Gene discovery

   Receptor Biology and Gene Expression, Laboratory of

          James McNally     Molecular biology, microscopy

   Staff Clinician

   Cancer Genetics Branch, MOP

          Renee Gamborg     Direct clinical trials

   Radiation Oncology Branch, ROSP

          Nancy Kesteven     Clinical Imaging

   Link to NIH

       CCR Home | About CCR | Clinical Trials | Research | Employment
        Featured Initiatives | News | Events | Site Privacy Policy |
                                Accessibility

   ©2000-2001 Center for Cancer Research at the National Cancer Institute

   Link to FirstGov
