http://www.ntia.doc.gov/ntiahome/speeches/2002/outlook_012302.htm



   NTIA Logo

                      Remarks by Commerce Assistant Secretary Nancy Victory
                                             at the
                                Broadband Outlook 2002 Conference
                                        Washington, D.C.
                                        January 23, 2002

                                 The New Medium for a New Media?

   Thank you very much for the invitation to appear before you today. I
   know many of you are here from the content side of the aisle. This is a
   "homecoming" of sorts for me, given my deep family roots in broadcast
   programming. As some of you may know, my father is the Victory in
   Victory Television. His career led him from CBS to Viacom to founding
   his own program syndication company. Before his retirement, my Dad held
   the syndication rights to Hill Street Blues, St. Elsewhere, WKRP in
   Cincinnati and Concentration, to name a few. He ran a quality business
   focused on quality entertainment.

   As a youngster, I was my father's personal focus group. After homework
   (and, don't tell my Mom, but sometimes even before I had finished it),
   my Dad had me watch television shows to test my reactions. What did I
   like? Why did I like it? Would I watch it again? And, very important
   for syndication purposes, would I watch it again and again and again? I
   was cheaper than Nielsen ratings and he didn't have to wait for the
   spring sweeps for feedback!

   While I am expected to do the talking this morning, most of you know
   that NTIA is committed to listening and learning before acting. So I
   was hoping that you could be my personal "focus group" for a day. The
   issue of the day is broadband. Let me challenge you with my questions:
   Is broadband a new medium for a new media? Would the widespread
   availability of high speed and interactive video highways into the
   living rooms, classrooms and desktops of Americans spark a new media
   revolution? Is broadband a "transformational enabler" of a leap forward
   in information services and capabilities? Are we just talking about
   bigger "pipes" or "pipes" that make a bigger difference? I've been
   hearing from others on this issue. I would be interested in your
   feedback as well.

   As you know, broadband issues are a top priority for President Bush and
   his Administration. Broadband holds the promise of revolutionizing our
   use of the Internet. This new technology's faster speed and greater
   capacity not only will permit us to make more effective and efficient
   use of Internet connections, but also to open up a whole new world of
   data that can be accessed, distributed and downloaded - in seconds. As
   such, broadband promises to increase economic productivity, spur
   innovation and open up new avenues for education, medicine, and
   commerce - improving our lives domestically and our competitiveness
   globally. And greater deployment of broadband networks could generate
   thousands of new jobs directly in the provisioning of network
   facilities and new services and indirectly in the industries related to
   these networks and services.

   The Administration is not alone in its recognition of the importance of
   broadband. Countless industry and consumer groups have stressed the
   importance of timely broadband deployment. Just last week, TechNet, a
   group that includes more than 300 chief executive officers and senior
   partners of companies in the fields of information technology,
   biotechnology, venture capital, investment banking, and law, released
   its paper calling broadband "a national imperative," and stressing the
   importance of rapid broadband deployment. While estimates vary
   tremendously, expert studies cited by the commenters in our broadband
   proceeding suggest that there could be substantial economic benefit
   from greater broadband deployment.

   As many of you know, the Administration has been working hard to
   determine what the appropriate role is for the federal government in
   assisting the roll-out of broadband. NTIA has taken a leadership role
   in this process by holding a Broadband Forum in the fall, releasing a
   formal Request for Comments on broadband issues last month, and
   engaging in extensive outreach with industry, public interest groups,
   academics, and other interested parties. Through these activities, we
   have learned a lot about broadband and the state of broadband
   deployment in the United States.

   We have also been able to develop some guideposts to assist us in
   determining what the appropriate role for government should be in
   facilitating broadband deployment:

     · The first of these guideposts is that, wherever possible, the
     market, not government, should drive this deployment. Government's
     role is to remove the regulatory underbrush that impedes efficient
     capital investment. Carriers' decisions to deploy and consumers'
     decisions to subscribe should then be left to the market.

     · Second, we should pursue policies that promote rational facilities
     investment. Facilities-based competition has always been a desired
     means for achieving a robustly competitive market. Obviously, there
     should be reasonable opportunities for resale competition as well.
     However, as we saw on September 11th, there are network reliability
     and security advantages to having a diversity of facilities-based
     competitors.

     · Third, where possible, we should promote competition via a
     technology-neutral paradigm. As you all know, broadband services can
     be deployed over telephony, cable, wireless and satellite platforms.
     The differing histories and regulations surrounding each type of
     platform makes absolute regulatory parity difficult to achieve, but
     it is important to try to regulate comparable services in a manner
     that does not interfere with marketplace outcomes.

     · Fourth, we should be mindful that the market might not always work
     as well or at the same pace in all areas, particularly in rural and
     certain urban areas. In developing a policy, we need to be aware of
     the differing forces and needs in those areas.

     · Finally, once we establish the right regulatory framework,
     effective enforcement is critical to making it work. Regulations
     must have teeth and penalties must deter non-compliance.

   Using these guideposts to frame our examination of a broadband policy,
   we looked to the comments in our proceeding to provide more specific
   information. Among the valuable insights in the comments is that
   broadband requires a look at both supply side and demand side issues.
   Building the broadband "field of dreams" requires a careful and
   collaborative consideration of what spurs deployment and what spurs
   consumption. "Build it and they will come" only works in the movies.
   But "build it" and bring "value" for consumers - then you will have a
   real world box office smash! What the comments seem to be telling us is
   that we cannot be myopic in our analysis of broadband - we must take a
   holistic look and develop a policy that is comprehensive, yet has all
   of its various elements coordinated and in balance.

   In wading through the comments and what they reveal about the nature
   and inter-relationship of all of these broadband issues, I was thinking
   that one of the athletic endeavors of my youth prepared me well for the
   challenge of trying to figure out an effective broadband policy. Like
   so many young girls growing up in the 1970s, I dabbled in gymnastics.
   And like Olga Korbut (although I was far less talented), I chose the
   balance beam. I tumbled, posed and pirouetted - all on a four inch wide
   piece of wood. It was no small feat! The slightest exaggeration of one
   limb could throw the entire body off kilter, ruining the whole routine.
   The message we're hearing on broadband seems to be saying the same
   thing. You need to keep well-grounded and have all parts of the policy
   moving in coordination in order for the overall approach to be
   effective. If the elements of the policy are not all in balance with
   each other, the desired outcome will not be achieved.

   Let me try to be more specific about what I am hearing. The comments in
   our proceeding demonstrate that we must examine supply issues, demand
   issues, laws and regulations at the federal, state, and local level,
   and the respective regulatory treatment of all potential broadband
   providers - telcos, cable companies, wireless providers, satellite
   operators, and any others that come on the scene.

   With respect to supply issues, much of the broadband debate has been
   focused on whether current regulation stands as an impediment to
   deployment. Many of the comments filed in NTIA's broadband proceeding
   address whether and how to deregulate new high speed infrastructure to
   spur investment in broadband facilities and services. A number of the
   comments focused on unbundling issues. Some parties advocated the
   relaxation of UNE requirements for certain new broadband
   infrastructure. Other parties argued for the adoption of different
   unbundling regimes for "new" and "old" incumbent telco facilities.
   Still others are adamant that unbundling would inhibit, rather than
   promote, competition. Another critical issue raised was pricing -
   specifically, whether to transition away from the FCC's current pricing
   mechanism - the controversial TELRIC. Other commenters discussed
   detariffing of broadband services provided by incumbent telcos in
   markets where there are multiple providers of comparable services.

   The comments also addressed the issue of open access obligations for
   cable, satellite, and wireless broadband providers. Some see open
   access as necessary to ensuring consumers' ability to have choice over
   how they access the Internet and as critical to the viability of small
   niche companies that are not vertically integrated to play in the
   marketplace. In contrast, others see open access as something that is
   best brought about by the competitive play of the marketplace and not
   through a blanket requirement mandated by the government.

   Many commenters referenced impediments inherent in the ability to
   access rights-of-way - both those controlled by localities and those
   owned by the federal government. These commenters emphasized that
   efforts to increase facilities-based competition must include
   addressing such problems. Some pointed to solutions like those taken by
   Florida and Michigan, which have acted to curb right-of-way barriers
   throughout their state and thus improve the ability of service
   providers to reach their customers more efficiently. Indeed, it is
   important to learn from these various innovative approaches to removing
   state and local roadblocks.

   But in looking at these issues, the commenters have repeatedly reminded
   us that we must "keep our balance" and be sure to coordinate the
   various policy issues affecting broadband deployment. For example, some
   have underscored the interplay between relaxation of the unbundling
   requirements and the administration of rights-of-way. Specifically,
   changes to facilitate facilities-based competition might not be
   effective and, indeed, might undercut competition unless impediments to
   accessing rights-of-way are eased. Similarly, just addressing federal
   issues will not do the trick when state and/or local issues may create
   an imbalance that thwarts the entire effort. We must be cognizant that
   our counterparts at the state and local level can also influence the
   pace - and overall effectiveness - of broadband deployment.

   Just as importantly, a well-grounded and coordinated policy cannot be
   limited to a review of supply-side regulations. While an estimated 63
   percent of Americans have access to cable modems or DSL service today,
   only about 10 percent of American consumers have subscribed to
   broadband service. Thus, the government and the private sector need to
   look at demand issues, such as digital rights management and
   productivity-enhancing applications. NTIA raised these issues in our
   Broadband Forum in October, and our sister agency at the Department of
   Commerce, the Technology Administration, is taking the lead here. The
   Technology Administration held a forum last month on digital rights
   management, raising questions like: Who will set the technical
   standards for digital rights management - industry or government?  Who
   will enforce the standards? What impact will digital rights management
   have on the consumer electronics industry?  How will content be
   protected? What types of applications will emerge once these
   intellectual property issues are resolved? Reviewing and answering
   these questions is crucial to addressing demand side issues that affect
   the full realization of broadband's potential.

       Finally, a number of the commenters noted that a comprehensive,
   coordinated and balanced approach must also address financial
   incentives. Here, the Bush Administration has already taken some
   important actions. First, the President signed into law an extension of
   the Internet tax moratorium, which will prevent new access taxes from
   increasing the cost of Internet services for consumers and businesses.
   Second, the President's economic security package makes an important
   step toward modern tax depreciation schedules, which will remove
   obstacles to new investment in information technology and broadband
   infrastructure. Third, the President has proposed permanently extending
   the research and experimentation tax credit to promote increased
   investment in the development of new technologies. The President also
   has proposed broadening access to the research and experimentation tax
   credit (which the Clinton Administration restricted in its last days)
   to make it easier for companies to deduct many costs of developing new
   technologies and drugs. It is essential that these critical legislative
   proposals are enacted so that we can begin to enjoy the benefits they
   are likely to have on the deployment of broadband and other new
   technologies.

   Conclusion

   Given all that the comments conveyed to us, it appears that regulators
   are going to need to be nimble and focused to come up with a
   coordinated policy that keeps its balance. For this reason, I am
   beginning to realize that my past experience on the balance beam will
   serve me well. And I am glad to see that Chairman Powell has a similar
   gymnastics background. He has already demonstrated his proficiency for
   the on-stage somersault. It appears that those skills will come in
   handy in tackling the panoply of issues associated with broadband
   deployment.

   There is no question that broadband technology has great promise.
   Whether it develops into a critical new medium or a whole new media
   remains to be seen. But either way, Americans' enjoyment of the full
   benefits of broadband appears to depend at least in part on a
   regulatory policy that eliminates unnecessary impediments to deployment
   and promotes full and fair competition - a regulatory policy that is
   comprehensive and coordinated, with all of its elements "in balance."
