http://www.mvhcb.gov/mvhcb_13h/FAQs.htm


   Skip to content area Skip to left side navigation Skip to bottom page
   MVHCB logo

   Documents
   PRD-5
   Force Health Protection
   Research Reports
   Clinical Practice Guidelines
   Health Consequences of the Gulf War
   Deployment Readiness-a review of sexual trauma

                 To read PDF Files
                Get Acrobat Reader


   MVHCB title
               News & Events Home Members Only FAQs

Frequently Asked Questions


     The Plan (PRD-5): A National Obligation

     What are the broad policy implications of the plan?

     What are the plan's major recommendations?
   The MVHCB

     Who are the MVHCB members?

     By what mechanism will the MVHCB carry out its charter in
   implementing the recommendations of the plan?

     How will the MVHCB report progress on its work in addressing the
   plan's recommendations?

     How will the establishment of the MVHCB effect the quality of care
   our military service members and veterans receive?

     What will the MVHCB do that isn't currently being done?

     What is the relationship between the MVHCB and the PGVCB?

     What is Force Health Protection (FHP)?

     Whatwill be the relationship between the work of the MVHCB and the
   National Academy of Science review on improving deployment health in
   the future?

     What is being done to improve communication with our troops and their
   families?

     How are records being changed so that we have better information on
   future deployments and the health of the deployed troops?

     What actions will be taken in the near future based on the plan
   setout by PRD-5?

     How does the PRD-5 use "lessons learned" from the Gulf War to improve
   health care, deployment surveillance and record-keeping, research,
   communication for future combat veterans?

     Can you give an example of how the lessons learned from the Gulf War
   are being applied to deployments in Bosnia?

     How would you summarize the major differences now vs. during the Gulf
   War?

     How will this new Coordinating Board help us understand unknown
   illnesses, or help us treat sick veterans?

     Did veterans (and other stakeholders including veterans' families)
   participate in establishing the new MVHCB? How?

     Now that the MVHCB has an executive director, what are the immediate
   goals of the new MVHCB?

     How will this announcement effect the quality of care our Military
   service members and Veterans receive?

   Q: What are the broad policy implications of the plan?                  ^Top
   A: This plan, along with the President's directive, sets a course for
   improved cooperation and coordination among Federal agencies in
   addressing the health needs of our military, our veterans, and their
   families. Through the release of this report and the establishment of
   the Military and Veterans Coordinating Board (MVHCB), the President is
   directing the agencies to work together to achieve program synergy.
   Using the Persian Gulf Veterans Coordinating Board as a model, we will
   apply this approach to future deployments. We expect to see
   better-coordinated research program, record keeping initiatives,
   deployment health efforts, and health risk communication programs to
   address the force health protection requirements for future deployments
   Q: What are the plan's major recommendations?                           ^Top
   A: The interagency working group (IWG) that developed this plan
   identified the following essential recommendations:
     * There must be ongoing coordination of all agencies involved in
       maintaining the health of military members (active duty, National
       Guard, and reservists), veterans, and their families. Therefore,
       the IWG recommends creation of a military and Veterans Health
       Coordinating Board (N4VHCB).
     * To succeed with many of the goals and objectives laid out in this
       plan, the government requires ongoing direction and coordination
       for the Departments' health and personnel information management
       and record-keeping activities, especially activities associated
       with deployments. The IWG recommends that DoD and VA, in
       consultation with DHHS, establish an ongoing interagency task force
       to coordinate and set standards for information management and
       technology efforts.
     * DoD should complete implementation of recently issued directives on
       joint medical surveillance and force health protection. DoD should
       proceed with its contract with the National Academy of Sciences
       (NAS) for a 3-yr program of scientific, technical, and policy
       analysis activities entitled "Strategies to Protect the Health of
       Deployed U.S. Forces."
     * DoD, DHHS, Food and Drug Administration (FDA), should accelerate
       their efforts not only to identify regulatory issues associated
       with the use of investigational products during military
       exigencies, but also develop strategies to resolve them. We're
       proud to say that an executive order has been recently issued which
       addresses the conditions under which investigational new drugs can
       be cleared for use by servicemen and women during future
       deployments.
     * VA, DoD, and DHHS should develop and implement a coordinated
       interagency program to communicate health risk information related
       to current and future deployments, especially combat operations, to
       military members, veterans, and the public.
       DoD and VA should maintain a robust biomedical research,
       development, and testing, and evaluation program emphasizing
       research priority areas identified in this plan.
     * DoD should ensure that military medical manpower requirements
       include medical scientists with expertise relevant to the health
       concerns associated with military deployments.

   Q: Who are the MVHCB members?                                           ^Top
   A: The principal members and co-chairs are the Secretary of Defense,
   the Secretary of the Veterans Affairs, and the Secretary of Health and
   Human Services. The Principal Alternate Members are the Under Secretary
   for Health of the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Assistant
   Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs, and the Assistant Secretary
   for Health of the Department of Health and Human Services.
   Q: By what mechanism will the MVHCB carry out its charter in
   implementing the recommendations of the plan?                           ^Top
   A: The Board will have a full time staff with one medical officer from
   the Army, Air Force, and Navy in addition to a VA Program Analyst and a
   DHHS Administrative Assistant who will coordinate the efforts of the
   interagency working groups: Deployment Health, Risk Communication, and
   Research plus an Information Management/Informnation Technology (TM/IT)
   task force. Because DoD and VA are separate agencies and are governed
   by different statutes, great care has to be taken on the sharing of any
   health data. Working together in this interagency environment clearly
   benefits all veterans and their families in ensuring that a more
   seamless approach to care is implemented.
   Q: How will the MVHCB report progress on its work in addressing the
   plan's recommendations?                                                 ^Top
   A. The MVHCB will report its annual progress to both the Assistants to
   the President for Science and Technology and for National Security
   Q: How will the establishment of the MVHCB effect the quality of care
   our military service members and veterans receive?                      ^Top
   A: Our commitment to providing military members, veterans, their
   families, and our other health care beneficiaries with high quality
   health care remains unchanged. What the PRD-5 does reflect is our
   ongoing commitment and dedication to improving and protecting the
   health of military members, veterans, and their families and to
   improving the quality of the health care that they do receive.
   Q: What will the MVHCB do that isn't currently being done?              ^Top
   A: The Coordination Board will improve the level of coordination and
   communication between Federal agencies that have programs and expertise
   that can be brought to bear on the special needs associated with troop
   and veteran health. This has gone on in the past, but through the
   activities of the Board and its working groups, this will become a more
   focused and effective process. The MVHCB will ensure coordination among
   VA, DoD, and DHHS on a broad range of health care and research issues
   relating to past, present, and future military service in the U.S.
   Armed Forces. The MVHCB is modeled on the Persian Gulf Veterans
   Coordinating Board (PGVCB), which was established in 1994, which has
   been very successful in ensuring effective interagency coordination.
   Q: What is the relationship between the MVHCB and the PGVCB?            ^Top
   A: The Persian Gulf Veterans Coordinating Board (PGVCB), established in
   January of 1994, has been an extremely successful interagency forum for
   coordinating efforts to address the health concerns of Gulf War active
   duty service members and veterans, which have come to be known as Gulf
   War illnesses. The PGVCB, which has the same co-chairs as the MVHCB
   (the Secretaries of DOD, VA, and HHS), will continue to exist along
   side the MVHCB. The PGVCB will continue the ongoing federal focus in
   providing direction and coordination on health issues related to the
   service in the Persian Gulf War.  More specifically the PGVCB will
   continue to deal with issues related to the cause, diagnosis, and
   treatment of Persian Gulf illnesses. The MVHCB, on the other hand, will
   build on the lessons learned from the Persian Gulf War and other
   deployments in implementing a highly effective force health protection
   program for future deployment operations.
   Q: What is Force Health Protection (FHP)?                               ^Top
   A. Force Health Protection is a DoD program designed to provide a full
   spectrum of health protection for our servicemen and women, our DoD
   civilians, and their families. There are three important pillars to the
   FET: Building a Healthy and Fit Force, Casualty Prevention, Casualty
   Care and Management. The MVHCB will address components of all three of
   these pillars with an emphasis on the first two - it will be very
   prevention oriented in its focus and will seek to reduce the
   occurrences of disease and non-battle injury to the lowest practicable
   levels.
   Q: What will be the relationship between the work of the MVHCB and the
   National Academy of Science review on improving deployment health in
   the future?                                                             ^Top
   A. The National Academy of Sciences has undertaken a 3 year project to
   develop strategies to protect deployed United States forces during the
   future. DoD requested this study, which has just one year to go until
   completion. While the Academy study will draw on information from past
   deployments, it is future-oriented in its scope. The MVHCB will have
   access to the findings and recommendations of the Academy's work and
   will use them as a guide in the implementation of the PRD-5.
   Q: What is being done to improve communication with our troops and
   their families?                                                         ^Top
   A: Communication, and especially health risk communication, has become
   a visible part of our planning for force health protection efforts.
   Before and after deployments, health threat briefings are required
   parts of the military mission. A number of important efforts are
   occurring in support of enhanced communication with our active duty,
   veterans, families and health care providers. Some notable achievements
   include completion of a "Comprehensive Risk Communication Plan for Gulf
   War Veterans" by the Persian Gulf Coordinating Board. This plan will
   serve as a strategic plan and will guide the efforts of a Risk
   Communication Working Group to be established under the MVHCB. Recently
   a Research Advisory Committee supporting the efforts PGVCB Research
   Working Group was established for Veterans Service Organizations to
   become more active participants in determining areas of research for
   possible funding. A number of presentations to veterans designed to
   update them on the latest information on research and treatment trials
   have occurred. These include roundtable discussions in a number of
   settings, starting this past February at the CDC Conference on Gulf
   War-related Research held in Atlanta, continuing in June at the GW
   Illnesses Annual Research Conference in Crystal City, with yet another
   at the recent GW Veterans Conference sponsored by Veterans
   Organizations in Las Vegas. The Office of Special Assistant for Gulf
   War Illnesses (OSAGWI) has held, and continues to hold, public meetings
   around the country, which includes presentations by the VA. These
   meetings are open to veterans as well as active duty personnel further
   informing them on the results of the numerous investigations both
   completed and ongoing as well as a providing a forum for concerns to be
   raised to DOD and VA. In addition both the VA and DOD Web sites have
   continued to be made more effective and comprehensive in providing
   information to our Veteran's via the Internet.
   Q: How are records being changed so that we have better information on
   future deployments and the health of the deployed troops?               ^Top
   A: Our ability to successfully, continually, and consistently meet the
   requirements of DoD, Joint Staff, and Service policies and Public Law
   105-85 (Sec. 765) depends on medical information solutions that
   structure, capture, integrate, maintain, and retain the health and
   health-related data of all military members throughout their military
   service and into the period of retirement or post-separation where the
   VA becomes involved with the delivery of health care to these
   personnel. These requirements are being incorporated into the
   development of current and future medical information management and
   technology initiatives.
   Information technology initiatives, including Composite Health Care
   System II (CHCSII) and the Preventive Health Care Application, are
   moving the DoD toward a complete computerized patient record that will
   capture and retain all health care information, improve the delivery of
   preventive services and health care, and enhance our understanding of
   the health status and health needs of service members and their
   families. For the deployed military member, these systems will be able
   to share information with the Medical Personal Information Carrier
   (PIC) technology. The PIC is a small, rugged, device intended to store
   an individual's medical status and history, vaccination records and
   other essential information that will interface with the CHCSII and
   other existing medical tracking systems in use in theater. The PIC will
   be carried by Service members during deployment and updated by medical
   personnel using portable computers whenever the Service member is
   examined or treated. PIC information will be transmitted to
   consolidated databases to ensure that medical information is not lost
   if the PIC is lost or damaged. The DoD and the military are currently
   developing the concept of use and determining the specific information
   to be contained in the PIC.
   Additionally, DoD is making special efforts to more effectively monitor
   the use of all vaccines and medicines given to service members to
   protect them from chemical and biological warfare agents as well as
   naturally occurring disease agents that they may be exposed to.
   Q: What actions will be taken in the near future based on the plan
   setout by PRD-5?                                                        ^Top
   A: The Department of Defense has established Surveillance. Clinical,
   and Research Centers for Deployment Health, which will support many of
   the objectives outlined in PRD-5. The Defense Authorization Bill for
   Fiscal Year 1999 authorized the Secretary of Defense to establish a
   center devoted to "... longitudinal study to evaluate data on the
   health conditions of members of the Armed Forces upon their return from
   deployment...." The goal of the Centers will be to ensure
   identification of trends in diseases, illnesses, or injuries among such
   members that may follow such operations. The Center's mission will
   include: clinical research efforts to evaluate risk factors,
   etiologies, new treatments and prevention strategies; risk
   communication interventions; surveillance for patterns and risk factors
   for illnesses and injuries; planning, coordinating and conducting
   epidemiological analysis of medical surveillance data relevant to
   specific deployments; epidemiological studies investigating the
   longitudinal health experience of previously deployed military
   personnel; and the development and evaluation of appropriate health
   surveillance strategies; and longitudinal clinical and epidemiological
   studies of symptoms, studies of hospitalizations, and studies of
   reproductive outcomes.
   In response to a PRD-5 recommendation, the Department requested that
   the Naval Health Research Center in San Diego conduct a pilot study on
   methods of collecting health information for reproductive outcomes,
   including birth defects, among the, offspring of military service
   members. Based on the results from this study, the Department
   established a program for national surveillance of birth defects among
   DoD beneficiaries. In addition, the Department has funded a pilot
   program to determine feasibility of establishing a Recruit Assessment
   Program as recommended in the PRD.
   The VA has also been directed by the Congress to establish a National
   Center for Study of War-Related Illnesses. The IOM was commissioned to
   develop an operational plan for carrying out the implementation of the
   recommendations made by the National Academy of Sciences, which was
   presented to the VA on Nov 4, 1999. The DoD centers as well as the VA
   center will play a pivotal role in carrying out the recommendations of
   the PRD-5.
   Q: How does the PRD-5 use "lessons learned" from the Gulf War to
   improve health care, deployment surveillance and record-keeping,
   research, communication for future combat veterans?                     ^Top
   A. The Gulf War made clear how important it is to protect the health of
   troops over the long-term; to adequately respond to veteran's health
   concerns following redeployment; and to assist veterans and their
   families through difficult transitions. The primary goal of the MVHCB
   is to minimize or prevent post-conflict health concerns in the future.
   In accordance with PRD-5, VA, DoD and HHS are working closely to
   improve service personnel's understanding of health risk information;
   improving delivery of health care services to Gulf War veterans and
   their families; enhancing government collection of health exposure
   data; and coordinating agency research programs.
   These interagency efforts which result from lessons learned will
   include pre-deployment health screening in the form of a DOD/VA
   Recruitment Assessment Program; enhanced medical (and environmental)
   surveillance of troops during deployments; improved VA/DoD patient
   health record keeping to help prevent illness and efforts to identify
   and cure those that occur  in a more timely manner; post-deployment
   health surveillance; and readjustment counseling.
   This new approach for force medical protection will serve to safeguard
   military members and veterans form health hazards associated with
   future conflicts and peacekeeping missions.
   Q: Can you give an example of how the lessons learned from the Gulf War
   are being applied to deployments in Bosnia?                             ^Top
   A: Troops have been deploying to Bosnia for several years and that
   deployment has generated its "lessons learned." The lessons from Bosnia
   have most recently been applied to the ongoing deployments to Southwest
   Asia and Kosovo. In February 1998, U.S. Central Command (CENTCOM)
   updated their deployment policy on implementing comprehensive joint
   medical surveillance measures, as outlined in the August 1997
   Department of Defense Instruction 6490.3, Implementation and
   Application of Joint Medical Surveillance for Deployments. The CENTCOM
   policy requires completion of pre- and post-deployment health
   assessment questionnaires; daily and weekly disease and non-battle
   injury reporting; environmental monitoring of the air, water, soil, and
   radiation based on assessment of actual and/or potential health threats
   in deployed locations; oversight of individual and unit preventive
   medicine measures; and immunization tracking with enhanced focus on the
   anthrax vaccine. Joint medical
   surveillance teams (JMST) deployed to the CENTCOM area of operation
   closely monitor and report on disease and injury incidence, compliance
   with force medical protection/surveillance initiatives, including
   vaccinations administered in theater.
   All personnel are assessed and determined to be physically and
   medically fit before deployment. This includes: a medical threat
   briefing; distribution of medical information; DNA sample collected and
   on file; demonstration that a pre-deployment serum specimen is either
   on file or has been drawn; MV test within 12 months prior to
   deployment; immunizations as required; a physical exam if not current;
   completion of a pre-deployment health assessment questionnaire (to be
   filed in the medical record and a copy sent to DoD's Deployment
   Surveillance Team); and follow-up actions on any non-deployable
   conditions.
   CENTCOM directed that a deployment medical record be prepared per
   Service policy and either carried by the service member or shipped with
   the medical element. CENTCOM requires documentation of all medically
   significant events that occur in theater. Guidance on vaccination
   programs and other force medical protection measures for the theater
   are explicit regarding the requirement to document, retain, and, if
   appropriate, archive individual medical information.
   Q: How would you summarize the major differences now vs. during the
   Gulf War?                                                               ^Top
   A: The U.S. military has incorporated many lessons learned from the
   Gulf War and subsequent hazardous deployments to Haiti, Rwvanda,
   Somalia, Bosnia, and now Kosovo. The Department of Defense is committed
   to an aggressive program of Force Health Protection. A comprehensive
   approach to health care and prevention has been implemented that will
   coordinate the activities within DoD and among multiple federal
   agencies. The health of military personnel will be monitored and
   promoted from induction training to the end of military service, and
   then throughout their lives through medical care in the Department of
   Veterans Affairs. New DoD and VA deployment health research centers are
   being established that will actively investigate potential health risks
   and medical, psychological, and reproductive outcomes. DoD has
   recognized the need for proactive health risk communication as an
   essential part of the force health protection strategy.
   Clearly the President and Congress have also heeded the lessons learned
   from the Gulf War. As early as 1992, Public Law 103-2 10 provided Gulf
   War veterans with priority health care in the VA; and, the "Veterans
   Programs Enhancement Act" of 1998 ensured that all future war veterans
   have access to health care.
   Protecting the health of U.S. military forces is a national obligation.
   Americans who defend the vital interests of the nation deserve accurate
   health information and the finest medical care and preventive health
   measures available to protect their health, wherever they serve.
   The PRD-5 also reflects our commitment to an interagency collaboration
   to address the current and future health issues of military members,
   veterans, and their families. The Military and Veterans Health
   Coordinating Board will help ensure this commitment is met.
   Q: How will this new Coordinating Board help us understand unknown
   illnesses, or help us treat sick veterans?                              ^Top
   A: The new Military and Veterans Health Coordinating Board (MVHCB)
   builds on the lessons learned about military and veterans health
   following recent conflicts including the Gulf War. Its mandate was
   spelled out in a Presidential Review Directive in August 1998 (PRD-5).
   Its mandate is a logical expansion of the interagency Persian Gulf
   Veterans Health Coordinating Board.
   In the past, combat medicine was primarily focused on casualty care.
   The MVHCB will look beyond battlefield casualties to concentrate on the
   prevention of post deployment illnesses experienced by veterans of past
   conflicts as well as those anticipated to occur as a result of future
   deployments. Key to this effort will be the establishment of the DoD
   Deployment Health Centers and the VA Center for War-related Illnesses.
   These centers of expertise will address improvements in clinical
   treatment, a wide range of research on the prevention and treatment of
   illnesses, and enhanced medical surveillance including the detection
   and monitoring of health hazards.
   The new MVHCB will take a comprehensive, multi-agency approach to
   deployment health, record-keeping, research, and health risk
   communications.
   Q: Did veterans (and other stakeholders including veterans' families)
   participate in establishing the new MVHCB? How?                         ^Top
   A: Veteran's service organization representatives served on the Health
   Risk Communication Work Group and provided invaluable feedback on the
   mandate of the new MVHCB.
   Q: Now that the MVHCB has an executive director, what are the immediate
   goals of the new MVHCB?                                                 ^Top
   A: The three agencies participating In the MVHCB (VA, DoD and DHHS)
   will follow the recommendations established in the PRD-5 along with
   those provided by the NASI/NRC. The focus will be on improvements in
   the collection and maintain military personnel data, including
   demographic and occupational data, and longitudinal records of service
   member's military experiences, including pertinent data on health
   records, and the assessment and tracking of occupational and
   environmental exposures.
   • DoD has begun implementation of recently issued directives on joint
   medical surveillance and force health protection.
   • DoD contracted with the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) and the
   National Research Council (NRC) for a 3-year program of scientific,
   technical, and policy analysis activities entitled "Strategies to
   Protect the Health of Deployed U.S. Forces."
   • VA and DoD will, in consultation with DHHS, establish an ongoing
   interagency task force to coordinate information management/information
   technology efforts, including the development of functional
   requirements and standards.
   A number of interagency work groups (Research, Risk Communication, and
   Deployment Heath) will soon be established under the MVHCB to
   prioritize the goals, objectives and strategies contained in the plan
   and to develop implementation plans for those prioritized
   recommendations.
   Q: How will this announcement effect the quality of care our Military
   service members and Veterans receive?                                   ^Top
   The new MVHCB will address quality of care and other force medical
   protection issues throughout the entire deployment continuum. In
   accordance with the PRD-5, VA and DoD are working cooperatively to:
   • Streamline and better coordinate a more seamless medical service
   delivery to military service members and veterans.
   • Create compatible, computer-based information management/information
   technology systems to ensure a smooth transfer of records between DoD
   and VA.
   • Develop and publish joint clinical practice guidelines for disease
   treatment resulting from deployment operations.
   • Collaborate on the development of improved baseline health
   information databases and environmental monitoring during deployments.
   These activities will improve future medical surveillance, research and
   compensation efforts, and enhance the quality of healthcare our
   military service members and veterans receive.
   • Ensure the implementation of a comprehensive and well-coordinated
   interagency program to communicate health risk information related to
   the Gulf War and future deployments, and especially combat operations,
   to military members, veterans, family members, and the public
   • Sponsor research to identify risk factors for development of post-war
   Illnesses, develop health promotion and disease prevention programs for
   members of future military deployments and sponsor treatment trials for
   Gulf War and other era veterans.

   [hr.gif]

   [ News & Events | Home | Members Only | FAQs ]

   [ Contact Us | Private Policy | VA Disclaimer ]
