http://www.fca.gov/Description%20of%20Borrower%20Rights.htm

     Skip to Main Content     Pictures of Farm Scene

   FCA Homepage About FCA News and Events FCA's Publications Legal
   Information Farm Credit System Institutions

                                   graphic
                             Search FCA homepage

                              Link to About FCA

   picture of red button Borrower Rights
                         혰 Description of Borrower Rights
                         혰 Role of FCA in Addressing Borrower Inquiries


   Description of Borrower Rights
   The Farm Credit Act of 1971, as amended (Act), contains specific
   provisions intended to protect the rights of agricultural or aquatic
   producers who borrow from Farm Credit System (System) banks and
   associations. (These provisions do not apply to borrowers from the
   Banks for Cooperatives.) The following is provided for general
   information purposes only and is not intended to replicate the full
   scope of the borrower rights provisions contained in the Act and FCA
   regulations.

   Not later than the time of loan closing, System institutions must
   disclose to borrowers the current effective rate of interest on their
   loans. The effective rate is computed based on the stated rate to show
   the effect of loan origination fees and stock purchases required of the
   borrower. In the case of an adjustable or variable rate loan, the
   institution is obliged to provide the borrower with the amount and
   frequency by which the interest rate can be adjusted during the term of
   the loan and the factors 혰 such as the cost of funds, operating
   expenses, and provisions for loan losses 혰 that are taken into account
   in determining adjustments to the interest rate. If there are no
   limitations on the amount or frequency of interest rate adjustments,
   the institution must provide borrowers with a statement to that effect.

   System borrowers are required to own stock in the System institution at
   the time their loans are made. Since the stock purchased is at-risk
   stock, the lending institution must give borrowers a written statement
   indicating that fact. Further, the System institution must provide one
   or more representative examples of the impact of stock purchase and
   applicable loan origination fees on the current interest rate on an
   annualized basis.

   System institutions must provide copies of all documents signed by the
   borrowers to the borrowers at loan closing. After loan closing and upon
   written request of the borrower, the institution must provide copies of
   any documents signed or delivered by the borrower. Also, a borrower may
   make a written request and obtain a copy of the institution's articles
   of incorporation or charter and bylaws, and copies of each appraisal of
   the borrower's assets made or used by the lender.
   When a person applies for a loan, the System institution must provide
   prompt written notice of its decision on the application. If a loan
   request is reduced or denied, the lending institution must give the
   applicant, in writing, the reasons for the loan denial, and provide the
   applicant notice of opportunity for a review of that decision.

   If an institution determines that a loan has become distressed, the
   institution must notify the borrower of the right to submit an
   application to restructure the loan. If a restructuring application is
   denied, the institution must provide, in writing, both the reason for
   denial and an opportunity for a review.

   The right of first refusal becomes applicable when an institution
   elects to sell all or a portion of an acquired agricultural property.
   This right generally applies to real estate acquired by the System
   institutions, either through foreclosure or by voluntary conveyance of
   the property by the borrower in lieu of foreclosure. Under this
   borrower right, the institution must notify the previous owner of its
   decision to sell the property and the property's appraised market
   value. The previous owner must also be informed of his/her right to
   purchase the acquired property at the appraised market value and the
   right to make an offer to purchase the property at any price. Similar
   rights apply to the leasing of acquired property.

   Updated October 3, 1997

     Home | About FCA | News & Events | Publications | Legal Info | FCS
                                Institutions
                          Accessibility Information
      Please refer to our Privacy Policy for important information that
                  should be read before proceeding further.
   Some documents contained in this Web site are PDF files and require the
                                   use of
   the Adobe Portable Document Format 4.0 (PDF) viewer, available for free
                          from the Adobe Web site.
         Comments or Questions? Contact FCA Office of Congressional
        and Public Affairs (703) 883-4056 or e-mail info-line@fca.gov
                           Last Updated: 11/01/01
