http://www.treasurydirect.gov/sec/secfaq.htm

   skip to main content
   T-Bills, Notes, and Bonds Home Page

   Public Debt Home Page

   Print this page

   Navigational Tool
   Click for text links

         Virtual Lobby | Upcoming Auctions | Recent Auctions: Bills
      Recent Auctions: Notes & Bonds | Secondary Market Rates | E-mail
                                   Reports

                         Frequently Asked Questions
                        about T-Bills, Notes, & Bonds

   This page provides information on Treasury bills, notes, and bonds, as
   well as on the two systems in which an investor can own these
   securities: TreasuryDirect and the Commercial Book-Entry System.

1) THE BASICS

   1.1) What are Treasury bills, notes, and bonds?
       1.2) What distinguishes bills, notes, and bonds from one another?
       1.3) What are other names for Treasury bills, notes, and bonds?
       1.4) Why are Treasury bills, notes, and bonds classified as
       "marketable securities?"
       1.5) Are Savings Bonds and Treasury bonds the same thing?
       1.6) Are Treasury securities still issued in paper form?
       1.7) Why should I buy Treasury bills, notes, or bonds?

2) BUYING TREASURY SECURITIES

   2.1) How can I buy Treasury bills, notes, and bonds?
       2.2) Who uses the Commercial Book-Entry System?
       2.3) Who uses TreasuryDirect?
       2.4) Are all Treasury securities available for purchase in both
       TreasuryDirect and the Commercial Book-Entry System?
       2.5) Can I transfer securities between TreasuryDirect and the
       Commercial Book-Entry System?
       2.6) What is meant by "competitive bidding" and "noncompetitive
       bidding?"
       2.7) What are the minimum and maximum purchase amounts?
       2.8) Can Treasury securities be pledged as collateral?

3) TreasuryDirect

   3.1) What is TreasuryDirect?
       3.2) How do I buy securities in TreasuryDirect?
       3.3) Can I conduct business on this Internet site?
       3.4) What services do you provide over the phone?
       3.5) How can I obtain forms?
       3.6) What are the bidding deadlines?
       3.7) What happens to late bids?
       3.8) Can I sell TreasuryDirect securities prior to their maturity?
       3.9) When I go south for the winter, will the Postal Service
       forward my TreasuryDirect mail?
       3.10) Does any print publication thoroughly explain TreasuryDirect?

4) AUCTION INFORMATION

   4.1) How does the government sell Treasury securities?
       4.2) Where can I find up-to-date information on auctions?
       4.3) Where can I find long-range information on upcoming auctions
       -- ones that are a couple of months or longer away?
       4.4) What is a single-price auction?

5) MISCELLANEOUS MATTERS

   5.1) What is a "called" bond?
       5.2) What are reopenings? 5.3) Where can I find how much debt is
       held in the various types of Treasury securities?
       5.4) Who publishes daily information on how Treasury securities are
       performing on the secondary market?
       5.5) Where can I find interest rates for zero coupon bonds and
       STRIPS?
       5.6) Where can I find constant maturity rates for Treasury
       securities?

                          Subject not covered here?
                    Call us at 800-722-2678 or e-mail us.

                          horizontal separator bar

1) THE BASICS

   1.1) What are Treasury bills, notes, and bonds?
       Treasury bills, notes, and *bonds are marketable securities the
       U.S. government sells in order to pay off maturing debt and raise
       the cash needed to run the federal government. When you buy one of
       these securities, you are lending your money to the U.S.
       government.
       1.2) What distinguishes bills, notes, and bonds from one another?
       Treasury bills are short-term obligations issued with a term of one
       year or less. Treasury bills are sold at a discount from face value
       (par) and do not pay interest before maturity. The difference
       between the purchase price of the bill and the amount that is paid
       at maturity (par), or when the bill is sold prior to maturity, is
       the interest earned on the bill.
       Treasury notes and bonds bear a stated interest rate, and the owner
       receives semi-annual interest payments. Treasury notes have a term
       of more than one year, but not more than 10 years. Treasury *bonds
       are long-term obligations issued with a term of more than 10 years.
       1.3) What are other names for Treasury bills, notes, and bonds?
       You may hear them called "marketable Treasury securites," "Treasury
       securities," or "Treasuries."
       1.4) Why are Treasury bills, notes, and bonds classified as
       "marketable securities?"
       Because after they're issued they can be sold prior to maturing.
       This buying and selling takes place in the secondary market at
       prevailing market prices.
       1.5) Are Savings Bonds and Treasury bonds the same thing?
       No. Both are bonds, and both are issued by the Department of the
       Treasury, but they aren't the same. One of the primary differences
       is that Treasury bonds are marketable and Savings Bonds aren't;
       that is, the owner of a Treasury bond can sell his bond prior to
       maturity, but the owner of a Savings Bond cannot transfer his
       security to someone else.
       Though both securities are bonds issued by the Treasury Department,
       when people in the financial world refer to a Treasury bond they
       aren't referring to a Savings Bond; again, they are referring to
       the marketable security described in the answer to Question 1.1.
       Similarly, when they refer to Treasury securities, they often are
       referring only to marketable Treasury securities.
       1.6) Are Treasury securities still issued in paper form?
       No. The only place to buy a paper Treasury today is the secondary
       market. Since 1986 all securities issued by the Treasury Department
       have been book-entry, meaning they exist only as electronic records
       in computers.
       1.7) Why should I buy Treasury bills, notes, or bonds?
       Whether you should buy them is a determination for you to make.
       These factors may help you decide:

     * Outside observers highly recommend Treasury securities. "U.S.
       Treasuries should be the foundation of any well-diversified
       investment portfolio," says Merrill Lynch.
     * Treasury securities are safe. They're backed by the full faith and
       credit of the United States government.
     * Treasury securities cannot be taxed by state or local governments.
     * Treasury securities are liquid; you can sell them at any time.
     * If you hold your securities in TreasuryDirect (see Section 3
       below), you aren't charged a fee unless your account is greater
       than $100,000.
     * In TreasuryDirect, you can buy and reinvest Treasury securities,
       and perform most account maintenance functions, using the worldwide
       web or our automated phone system. It's quick and convenient.

                         Return to Table of Contents

2) BUYING TREASURY SECURITIES

       2.1) How can I buy Treasury bills, notes, and bonds?
       Treasury securities can be bought at original issue or on the
       secondary market. At original issue, the Treasury Department sells
       new securities to the public. On the secondary market, traders buy
       and sell previously issued securities. Unless otherwise noted, this
       web site deals with the sale of securities at original issue. (For
       information on buying securities on the secondary market, contact a
       broker or dealer.)
       The Treasury Department sells securities at more than 150 auctions
       held throughout the year. To buy a security at one of these
       auctions, you must place a bid. You can place your bid directly
       with the government in a program called TreasuryDirect, or you can
       place your bid through brokers, dealers, or financial institutions,
       in what is called the Commercial Book-Entry System.
       2.2) Who uses the Commercial Book-Entry System?
       Large investors, including institutional investors such as banks,
       use the Commercial Book-Entry System, but so, too, do some
       individual investors.
       2.3) Who uses TreasuryDirect?
       This program is designed for investors who buy Treasury securities
       when they're first issued by the government and intend to hold the
       securities until they mature. As such, the program is popular with
       individual investors, particularly ones who don't consider
       themselves prolific securities traders.
       2.4) Are all Treasury securities available for purchase in both
       TreasuryDirect and the Commercial Book-Entry System?
       No. Cash management bills (special bills offered sporadically, as
       borrowing needs warrant) and 4-week Treasury bills cannot be bought
       in TreasuryDirect, but can be transferred into TreasuryDirect after
       being purchased in the Commercial Book-Entry system. STRIPS (notes
       and bonds whose interest and principal components have been
       separated) cannot be purchased or held in TreasuryDirect; they are
       available only in the Commercial Book-Entry System.
       2.5) Can I transfer securities between TreasuryDirect and the
       Commercial Book-Entry System?
       Yes, with one exception: STRIPS (notes and bonds whose interest and
       principal components have been separated). They cannot be
       transferred from the Commercial Book-Entry System into
       TreasuryDirect.
       2.6) What is meant by "competitive bidding" and "noncompetitive
       bidding?"
       These are the two types of bidding for a Treasury security. When
       you bid for a Treasury bill, note, or *bond, you must choose
       whether to bid competitively or noncompetitively.
       If you place a noncompetitive bid, we guarantee you will receive
       the security you desire. What's the catch? It's not a catch,
       really, but by bidding noncompetitively you agree to accept
       whatever rate or yield is determined at the auction. Investors who
       don't consider themselves expert securities traders usually bid
       noncompetitively.
       A competitive bid is one where you specify the rate or yield you
       will accept, and we may reject your bid or grant it in less than
       the full amount you wanted.
       2.7) What are the minimum and maximum purchase amounts?
       For all Treasury securities the minimum purchase amount is $1,000,
       regardless of whether you're bidding competitively or
       noncompetitively. Bids must be made in multiples of $1,000.
       Noncompetitive bids from a single bidder may not exceed $1,000,000
       for the same offering of Treasury bills, or $5,000,000 for the same
       offering of Treasury notes or *bonds. Maximum amounts for
       competitive bids are given in auction announcements. All of these
       rules apply regardless of whether you're using the Commercial
       Book-Entry System or TreasuryDirect.
       2.8) Can Treasury securities be pledged as collateral?
       When held in the Commercial Book-Entry System, yes. When held in
       TreasuryDirect, no.

                         Return to Table of Contents

3) TreasuryDirect

       3.1) What is TreasuryDirect?
       TreasuryDirect is a program in which you buy Treasury securities
       directly from the U.S. government, rather than through a bank or
       broker. The program is intended for investors who buy securities at
       original issue and hold them until they mature. It is popular with
       individual investors, especially ones who aren't prolific
       securities traders.
       3.2) How do I buy securities in TreasuryDirect?
       Treasury securities are sold at auctions. To buy a security, you
       must place a bid. Depending on circumstances, you can place your
       bid through TreasuryDirect by three means: a paper form called a
       tender, this web site, and our automated phone system. To determine
       which of those options are available to you, you must first decide
       whether you want to make a competitive or noncompetitive bid.
       Noncompetitive bid. Almost all TreasuryDirect investors choose this
       option. If you bid this way, we guarantee you will receive the
       security you desire. What's the catch? It's not a catch, really,
       but by bidding noncompetitively you agree to accept whatever rate
       or yield is determined at the auction.
       Competitive bid. In this form of bidding, you specify the rate or
       yield you will accept, and we may reject your bid or grant it in
       less than the full amount you wanted.
       Means of bidding. If you are an existing TreasuryDirect customer,
       you can place a noncompetitive bid by a tender, this web site, or
       our automated phone system. If you aren't yet one of our account
       holders, or if you are placing a competitive bid, you must use a
       tender.
       3.3) Can I conduct business on this Internet site?
       Yes you can, if you're an established TreasuryDirect account
       holder. If you have an account, you can use TreasuryDirect
       Electronic Services to noncompetitively buy securities, schedule
       reinvestments, obtain account balances and detailed CUSIP balances,
       request Statements of Account and duplicate 1099-INT forms, and
       change the mailing address and phone number on your account.
       3.4) What services do you provide over the phone?
       Our toll-free line, 800-722-2678, provides a variety of options,
       including TreasuryDirect Electronic Services (TDES). Using the
       automated TDES system, existing customers can noncompetitively buy
       securities, schedule reinvestments, request a Statement of Account,
       check account balances, order a duplicate 1099-INT form, and pay
       their account maintenance fee (applied only to accounts of more
       than $100,000).
       Also, existing and prospective customers can use 800-722-2678 to
       obtain recorded information on our securities and auctions, to
       order forms and publications, and to speak to a customer service
       representative.
       3.5) How can I obtain forms?
       You have a variety of options:

     * Order or download forms from this web site.
     * Order forms by sending an e-mail to IS-MAB@bpd.treas.gov. Include
       your mailing address and daytime telephone number with the list of
       forms that you desire.
     * Order forms by calling 800-722-2678.
     * Order forms from your TreasuryDirect office.

   3.6) What are the bidding deadlines?

   The deadlines will be stated in the auction announcement. Though they
   can vary, they generally are as follows.

   Bids submitted over the worldwide web or phone -- only noncompetitive
   bids can be made this way -- must be received before 12:00 Noon Eastern
   Time on auction day. (Tenders are officially accepted when you receive
   a confirmation number. For web bids, the time of day is determined by
   the time displayed on the web page. For phone bids, the time of day is
   kept by the TreasuryDirect system.

   Competitive bids submitted by mail must be received prior to 1 p.m.
   Eastern Time on auction day.

   Noncompetitive bids submitted by mail must be postmarked by the day
   before the auction and received by the issue date of the security.

   3.7) What happens to late bids?

   TreasuryDirect Electronic Services won't allow bids to be submitted
   late, so this question applies only to paper tenders.

   For a note, *bond, or 52-week bill . . . If a tender is postmarked
   timely but arrives late, we'll return it to you.

   For a 13-week or 26-week bill . . . If a tender is postmarked timely
   but arrives late, we'll place it in the next auction.

   3.8) Can I sell TreasuryDirect securities prior to their maturity?

   Yes. The best way to sell is through Sell Direct. We do all the work,
   obtaining quotes from different brokers and selling at the highest
   price offered. All you do is pay a nominal fee. It's much more
   convenient and cost-effective than dealing with a bank or broker,
   though that too is an option.

   3.9) When I go south for the winter, will the Postal Service forward my
   TreasuryDirect mail?

   Yes. All you need to do is submit a temporary change of address form to
   the Postal Service. If you do that, TreasuryDirect mail sent to your
   primary address will be forwarded to your temporary address.

   If you prefer, you can change the address on your TreasuryDirect
   account. You can make the change by visiting this web site, by calling
   800-722-2678 and talking to a customer service representative, or by
   sending your TreasuryDirect office a Transaction Request (PD F 5178).

   3.10) Does any print publication thoroughly explain TreasuryDirect?

   Yes, the TreasuryDirect Investor Kit (PD P 009). To obtain your copy,
   download or order it from this web site; or request a copy by calling
   800-722-2678 and speaking to a customer service representative, by
   sending an e-mail to IS-MAB@bpd.treas.gov, or by writing your
   TreasuryDirect office.

                         Return to Table of Contents

4) AUCTION INFORMATION

       4.1) How does the government sell Treasury securities?
       The Treasury Department sells securities at more than 150 auctions
       held throughout the year. To buy a security at one of these
       auctions, you must place a bid. You can place your bid directly
       with the government in a program called TreasuryDirect, or you can
       place your bid through brokers, dealers, or financial institutions,
       in what is called the Commercial Book-Entry System.
       You must also choose whether to place a competitive or
       noncompetitive bid. For an explanation of that issue, see Question
       2.6.
       4.2) Where can I find up-to-date information on auctions?
       Several sources exist. This web site posts results of previous
       auctions of bills, notes and bonds, as well as information
       regarding upcoming auctions. You also can obtain auction
       information by calling 800-722-2678 or writing to a TreasuryDirect
       office. Finally, many newspapers report auction schedules and
       results.
       4.3) Where can I find long-range information on upcoming auctions
       -- ones that are a couple of months or longer away?
       Auction dates aren't officially announced until some seven to 10
       days prior to an auction. However, every February, May, August and
       November, we put out a three-month calendar with tentative auction
       dates. These tentative dates can change, but seldom do. In addition
       to the three-month calendar, we show a general pattern of when
       auctions are held; this information is available by type of
       security and by month.
       4.4) What is a single-price auction?
       Treasury bills, notes, and *bonds are sold at single-price
       auctions. In a single-price auction, all successful competitive
       bidders and all noncompetitive bidders are awarded securities at
       the price equivalent to the highest accepted rate or yield of
       accepted competitive tenders.

                         Return to Table of Contents

5) MISCELLANEOUS MATTERS

   5.1) What is a "called" bond?
       Some Treasury bonds issued before 1985 are subject to call by the
       Treasury Department. When it exercises its option to call a bond,
       Treasury steps in prior to the bond's original maturity date and
       redeems the bond and stops paying interest on it.
       5.2) What are reopenings?
       In a reopening, we issue an additional amount of a
       previously-issued note. The reopened security has the same maturity
       date and interest rate as the original security; however, compared
       to the original security, the reopened security has a different
       issue date and usually a different purchase price.
       If the price determined at the reopening exceeds the par value of
       the security, you will owe a premium. Also, when buying a reopened
       security, you must pay the interest the security earned before you
       bought it; however, we will pay this interest -- it's called
       "accrued interest" -- back to you in your first semiannual interest
       payment.
       5.3) Where can I find how much debt is held in the various types of
       Treasury securities?
       Treasury's Financial Management Service publishes informative
       tables in its quarterly Treasury Bulletin. Go to the issue you're
       interested in and find "Public Debt Operations." Beneath that
       heading, see "Maturity Schedules of Interest-Bearing Marketable
       Public Debt Securities" and "Offerings of Bills and Public
       Offerings."
       5.4) Who publishes daily information on how Treasury securities are
       performing on the secondary market?
       Daily rates and information from the secondary market are available
       by clicking the "Secondary Market Rates" link at the top of this
       page and most other TreasuryDirect web pages. Also, you can visit
       the Federal Reserve Board of Governors site for rate information
       based on constant maturities for Treasury securities. Finally, see
       the GovPX site for additional information on securities.
       5.5) Where can I find interest rates for zero coupon bonds and
       STRIPS?
       STRIPS are sold in the marketplace as "Treasury zeros" or "Treasury
       zero coupons." They are called "zeros" because purchasers do not
       receive periodic interest payments. The Treasury does not issue or
       sell STRIPS. They can be purchased only through broker/dealers and
       depository institutions. They are the people to contact for rates.
       Also, bid and asked quotes and asked yields for U.S. Treasury
       STRIPS appear in The Wall Street Journal in the table "Treasury
       Bonds, Notes & Bills." This data may appear in other newspapers as
       well.
       5.6) Where can I find constant maturity rates for Treasury
       securities?
       The constant maturity rate, and other key interest rates, are
       contained in a statistical release, the H.15, published by the
       Federal Reserve Board.

                         Return to Table of Contents

   *The Treasury Department hasn't offered a bond since its decision in
   October 2001 to suspend issuance of the 30-year bond.

                          Didn't find your answer?
                    Call us at 800-722-2678 or e-mail us.

                          Updated December 19, 2001
