http://eappc48.lbl.gov/bioeco.htm

                   Ecosystem, Biomass and Climate Modeling
                    by Marc Fischer & Robert Van Buskirk

   HOME

   Motivation

   Data Sources

   Methods
      Image Analysis
      Biomass Models

   Image Resources:
             Erit. gifs
             NDVI Data
             Image Tools

          Work in Progress

          Acknowledgments

   Ecosystem and biomass modeling is important for global environmental
   and resource evaluations.  Of particular interest in the current era of
   unprecedented global climatic and environmental change, are improved
   methods for estimating carbon cycling, biomass dynamics and land use
   changes.  This page provides an introduction to one of many research
   efforts in this area.  The research described herein is a volunteer
   ecosystem and biomass modeling effort at Lawrence Berkeley National
   Laboratory organized and conducted by Dr.'s Robert Van Buskirk and Marc
   Fischer.

   The focus of this research is to develop inexpensive yet effective
   methods for modeling carbon cycling and biomass production in
   ecosystems at a resolution of approximately 1 kilometer. The methods
   will combine (sometimes novel) remote sensing methods with models for
   ecosystem biomass and carbon cycling. The methods to be applied are not
   revolutionary, but will advance the body of knowledge with regards to
   biomass resources, climate, and carbon cycling by examining a variety
   of models and processing methods for interpreting the available,
   publicly-accessible satellite images.

   The U.S. Southwest and the South Red Sea region of Africa are the study
   areas that have been selected for this research. The first area is the
   American Southwest between 30 and 42 degrees North latitude and 108 and
   125 degrees West longitude. The second study area is along the Southern
   Red Sea in Africa between 10 and 20 degrees North latitude and 35 and
   45 degrees East longitude.

                            Geographic Data Sets

   The initial goal of this research is to develop and archive a 1
   kilometer resolution data set of geographic, climatic, and ecosystem
   information for these two study areas, and to develop a user-friendly
   web interface for these information sets. It is expected that these
   data sets will include initially the following data to 1 km resolution:

          + Improved post-processed vegetation images (NDVI)
          + Elevation data (from the USGS DEM)
          + Mean monthly temperature estimates (from AVHRR & Elevation)
          + Land cover type (obtained from USGS)
          + Net Primary Productivity (derived from ecosystem model)
          + Soil moisture (derived from vegetation model)
          + Approximate monthly precipitation (derived from soil moisture
            &

                  vegetation model for semi-arid areas)

   Additionally we will attempt to derive additional data sets depending
   on available time and resources, including:

          Wood biomass
          Leaf biomass
          Soil carbon
          Underground biomass
          Microbial biomass
          Total carbon  and carbon fluxes
          Sunshine or solar radiation
          Humidity
          Soil surface temperature

   And finally we may attempt to couple the ecosystem model to a
   geographic econometric model of wood fuel consumption and supply
   dynamics. The coupled ecosystem/econometric model would then be used to
   analyze geographic patterns of wood fuel supply, consumption, and
   environmental impacts for the South Red Sea study area.

   Note that some of the planned processing techniques have been tested in
   preliminary form for portions of the South Red Sea study area, and can
   be seen at: http://www.punchdown.org/rvb.
