http://eas.oes.ca.gov/Pages/easplan.htm

   California - The Golden State   California Home Page Governor's Home
                                                        Page

                          HOW TO WRITE AN EAS PLAN
                                     or
                               WHAT IS A COO?

   Feel free to use, quote, distribute, or share this. Anyone is free to
   post this with appropriate attribution.

   By creating the COOs (Communications Operations Orders) it enabled us
   to provide each LECC chair with the LECCQ Questionaire. Then, they
   filled it out and returned it to us. We then wrote the COOs to assure
   compliance, workability, and uniformity. The LECCs didn't need to write
   plans. Other states requested a copy of the following and the LECCQ.
   It's here to share if you may benefit from it.

   Here is a Model Plan with Revision Page & Abbreviations that can be
   used to form your own plans.
   (* Requires an Acrobat reader available at end of this page.)

                              EAS Model Plan *
                              Plan Revisions *
                               Abbreviations *

   For further information and assistance in writing plans please contact
   the EAS Plans Coordinator, Cary Mangum.  Contact Information:  P.O. Box
   419047, Rancho Cordova CA 95741-9047 Telephone:  916-845-8619 or
   916-966-2291. FAX 916-845-8606.  E-mail: cary_mangum@oes.ca.gov,
   cary.mangum@macnexus.org

    --------------

    Most EBS plans follow a format established circa 1963 that, with all
   due respect, outlived its usefulness almost at the offset. The problem
   is not what is said but how it is presented. The typical EBS plan,
   after long and laborious writing, is obsolete the day after it is
   printed. Why? Because it is laced with transient, changeable, and
   "volatile" information.

    Perhaps someone envisioned the EBS Plan hanging on every broadcast
   control room in the nation. Then comes the emergency! The control
   operator (usually "combo") takes the voluminous EBS Plan off the wall,
   turns down the lights and the program audio, dutifully studies The Plan
   and searches for a description of what it is he or she is to do. Come
   on now! That is the trouble with plans formatted like that. We are
   loathe to update, publish, and redistribute them again when an
   important change is made. In a state like California with its 25 Local
   Areas, changes occur one or more a month. Some of our Local Areas are
   as big or bigger that some states!

    The solution? Place all the obligatory verbiage in one part that
   contains no names, call letters, telephone numbers, specific
   procedures, or anything else that could become obsolete tomorrow. All
   transitory and specific procedures are instead placed in separate,
   one-page, numbered and dated Communications Operations Orders (COOs).

    Every key player in the EAS needs to have only the one or two COOs in
   hand that apply to them. Take the rest of the Plan and the COOs and
   file it. You need refer only to your current one-page COO. Now isn't
   that a lot simpler?

    Here are the seven COOs that can apply to any Local Area in California
   -- or the Nation:

    COO #1. Monitor Assignments

    This identifies the LP1 and who they monitor (adjacent Area LP1s, the
   National Weather Service radio (NWR), State Relay Network, the Local
   Government Radio system, etc.)

    The LP2 station(s). An LP2 is a station that may be a local backup for
   the LP1 and/or one or more distant stations required to serve stations
   that cannot receive the LP1 consistently.

    An LP1S station? An LP1S is a Spanish language station that agrees to
   translate all "must carry" category National and Local EAS messages
   into Spanish. Any other Spanish language stations will be instructed
   (by this COO) to monitor the LP1S and the LP1. Some areas may require
   an LP1V for their Vietnamese audience, an LP1J for Japanese language
   translations, LP1P for Filipino, and so on.

    LP stations: Specify exactly who and what they will monitor. Two are
   mandatory; additional sources are voluntary.

    Specify the frequency of the NWR and its location.

    Specify any other government radio systems that will be used as a part
   of the EAS. We do not recommend RPU frequencies; they can be overrun by
   out of town media in the event of a major incident. There is nothing
   sacred about RPU frequencies; they are there for the first come, first
   served. In California, the statewide CLERS (California Law Enforcement
   Radio System) is the State Relay System and it is available to Local
   Areas for their local EAS activation purposes.

    This COO may be filed; it's not one that need be posted on the control
   room wall.

    COO #2. Event Codes

    Not the full list, or any code list of what you may or might want to
   have in the future, but just those that your LECC agrees are in the
   "must carry" category now; i.e., all there deem these will be carried
   and they will be automated carry in applicable stations. All the rest
   of the Event Codes are in the "discretionary carry" category.

    Some of our local emergency "must carry" Events in California are
   Tsunami WARNING, Tornado WARNING, Flash Flood WARNING, Civil Emergency
   WARNING, and Evacuate Immediately WARNING.

    This COO is used for initial EAS terminal programming and may be
   filed.

    COO #3. National Weather Service

    This instructs your responsible National Weather Service Office
   precisely what is expected of them for the EAS. This includes the FIPS
   codes over the NWR for both the "target" county and the neighboring
   counties that have broadcasters listened to or viewed in the "target"
   county. If you don't instruct the NWS to do this over their NWR, it may
   not be done.

    Part 2 of this COO is the specific instruction on what to do if the
   NWR is off the air. All NWS Forecast Offices have special receivers
   that will alarm in the absence of any NWR audio or carrier. The NWS
   will then have to telephone the affected Local Area LP1's unlisted or
   "EAS hotline" telephone number to read and have recorded the Warning
   bulletin. This section should include a simple "how to announce it",
   starting with a countdown, announcing the Warning, and concluding with
   "This concludes this special message from the National Weather Service
   and the Emergency Alert System. Stay tuned to this station for
   additional details."

    This COO is posted by the NWS and the LP1 and LP2 stations. All others
   may file it.

    COO #4. LP1/LP2 Stations

    This states succinctly what the LP1, LP2, and LP1S stations do.
   Station management should supplement it with what specific buttons to
   push, etc.

    This COO is posted at the LP1, LP2, and LP1S stations. All others may
   file it.

    COO #5. Officials Authorized to Activate the EAS

    Title of official or facility and direct callback number. The fewer
   the better.

    It gives the unlisted or EAS hotline number(s) to call.

    It refers the official to the Authentication COO -- if applicable.

    LP1 (and perhaps the LP2) must post this. All others file.

    COO #6. Authentication Procedure

    Used by most Local Areas. LP1 station operator asks the EAS activation
   requestor to authenticate a numeral. The requester must reply with the
   right code words from the Local Area Authenticator List in this COO. No
   match? Hangup. This list, by the way, is NOT the National Authenticator
   list. I can provide prepared lists to any California Local Area chair
   requiring one.

    This COO is posted at any location or with any official authorized to
   activate the EAS and at the LP1/LP2 stations. IT IS NOT PROVIDED TO
   OTHERS NOT HAVING A NEED TO KNOW.

    COO #7. Required Monthly Test

    The specific procedures, day, times, and script for the 12 coordinated
   monthly broadcasts that must be transmitted and carried by all
   broadcast stations and cable TV companies --- simulcast by unattended
   or automated stations and no more than 15 minutes delay by all others.

    California broadcasters opt for the day and night RMT to be done by
   the LP1 at 10 minutes before the hour. The 15 minute window in which
   you must rebroadcast the RMT the most convenient for TV and radio
   broadcast stations. Half-past the hour is NOT convenient to TV
   stations.

    Will it originate only from the LP1 station? Or will it originate from
   the Local Area EOC? The latter is preferred because it truly tests the
   system and the key players end to end. If there are multiple EOCs it
   can be rotated on different months. It is important to involve the
   local authorities if you expect it ever to used.

    Posted at ALL broadcast and cable TV companies and emergency
   management agencies. Filed by all others.

                                    ****

   The State Plan has at least three State COOs that apply to all Local
   Areas:

    COO #1. LP1 Station Assignments

    COO #2. State Relay Network

    COO #3. State Event Codes

    Return to the EAS Home Page

        * Acrobat Reader required

                                [getacro.gif]

   _________________________
   Updated:  TPP - 20020128
