http://www.chce.research.med.va.gov/perc/


   The Program Evaluation and Resource Center (PERC) conducts systemwide
   monitoring and evaluation of substance abuse treatment services in the
   Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) under the auspices of the Mental
   Health Strategic Health Group (MHSHG) in VA Headquarters. This work
   supports the VA Prescription For Change, is congressionally mandated,
   and results in findings that clinicians and managers use to improve VA
   treatment services. PERC's efforts are based on a simple philosophy:
   Ongoing monitoring, evaluation, and improvement of services is an
   integral part of the provision of high quality cost-effective health
   care. The Director of PERC is Dr. Keith Humphreys.

   PERC's major areas of focus are:
    1. nationwide assessment of substance abuse programs and patients;
    2. development of substance abuse treatment performance measures;
    3. outcome evaluations of major substance abuse treatment modalities;
    4. high-risk patient populations;
    5. self-help and mutual support programs, and
    6. health care staff and the quality and outcome of care.

   Overall, PERC's projects describe the changing patterns of VA treatment
   options and outcomes, project future demand for treatment, and identify
   the best forms of substance abuse intervention within the VA system.
   Our mission is to promote more effective and cost-effective health care
   for veterans with substance abuse disorders by finding out what
   treatments work and by informing policymakers about how to improve the
   treatment system.


   Main Page
   Investigators
   Quality Enhancement Research Institute
   Program Evaluation and Research Center
   Health Services Research and Development
   Training Programs
   Publications and Reports
   News
   Links
   Evidence-based Clinical Practice Guidelines in Substance Use Disorders
   A survey of VA substance abuse treatment program leaders provides
   information on their familiarity with and attitudes toward
   evidence-based practices and existing practice guidelines, as well as
   their interest in and perceived barriers to implementing practice
   guidelines.

   Patients with Diabetes Use Automated Calls to Access Self-Care
   Education
   VA Diabetic Patients are more satisfied than are patients in a
   county-funded system.

   More CHCE News...

                  All content and graphics are ©2002 CHCE
                              Legal Information
