http://www.ostpxweb.dot.gov/policy/safety/lavacces.pdf

   U.S. Department of Transportation LAVATORY ACCESSIBILITY IN
   SINGLE-AISLE AIRCRAFT FINAL REPORT OF THE AIRCRAFT ACCESSIBILITY
   FEDERAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE Office of Environment, Energy, and Safety
   Office of the Secretary of Transportation TABLE dF CONTtiNTS
   INTRODUCTION Page 1 DEFINITION OF TERMS Page 2-3 HUM?iN AND
   ENVIRONMENTAL FACTORS Page 3 RESPONSE TO ANPRM Page 3-10 ADDITIONAL
   COMMENTS AND FINDINGS Page lo-12 APPENDIX A - DESIGN CONCEPTS AND Page
   13-40 -PRESENTATION MATERIAL APPENDIX B - MEETING MINUTES APPENDIX? :
   ROSTER OF'COMMITTEE MEMBERS AND PARTICIPANTS . APPENDIX D - ANPR.M FROM
   FEDERAL REGISTER . INTRODUCTION The Department of Transportation (DOT)
   issued an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (ANPRM), notice 90-10
   published in the Federal Register on March 6, 1990. The notice
   (attached in Appendix D) posed nine questions designed to solicit
   public comments concerning the feasibility of providing accessible
   lavatories in single-aisle aircraft with 200 passenger seats or fewer.
   Current regulations apply only to new production deliveries or
   refurbishment of twin-aigle.aircraft. : .: Few.comments were received
   on'the GPRM: Consequently, DOi' . . established the Aircraft
   Accessibility Federal Advisory ' Committee. The purpose of the
   Committee was to provide guidance to DOT concerning access to
   lavatories on single-aisle aircraft. ,for persons with disabilities,
   including persons who use wheelchairs. Accordingly,- Committee members
   representing airlines, airframe manufacturers, disability advocacy
   groups, professional organizations, aviation safety organizations and
   relevant Federal agencies were appointed (A list of Committee members
   and other participants is provided at Appendix C.) The Committee held
   its first meeting July 29-30, 1992. Additional meetings were held
   September 16-17, December 9-10, and March 31- April 1; 1993. i The
   Committee visited aircraft, reviewed aircraft configuration studies,
   -discussed policy issues-, and reviewed a report defining "Functional
   Categories of Persons with Disabilities and Opera- tional Dimensions
   for Designing Accessible Aircraft Lavatories."l Discussions on spatial
   and physical needs were described by Committee members with
   disabilities, including the importance of related assistive equipment,
   sinks, and other common amenities in the accessible lavatory. Contained
   herein are the comments, findings, and advice of the Committee members
   concerning further rulemaking to implement the Air Carrier Access Act
   of 1986 with respect to accessible lavatories on single-aisle aircraft.
   '"Functional Categories of Persons with Disabilities and Operational
   Dimensions for Designing Accessible Aircraft Lavatories" is the title
   of a document prepared by C. Gerald Warren and Teresa Valois for the
   Paralyzed Veterans of America, National Easter Seal Society, National
   Multiple Sclerosis Society, and the United-Cerebral Palsy Associations,
   Inc. DEFINITION OF- TERMS' A. Assistive Equipment - Physical features
   that are used by passengers with disabilities, including visual and
   hearing impairments, e.g., hand bars, hand grips, platforms, signage,
   and lighting to facilitate their use of the lavatory. Platforms are
   horizontal proj.ections (frequently molded in) from a nearby wall that
   may be used for support in the manner of hand grips or hand rests. B. .
   ., Call Button - .The control switch in the lavatory used to ' ,.
   illuminate the flight attendant call light. . .. . C. Call Light - A
   readily visible light outside of the lavatory ' ' enclosure that can be
   illuminated by the use of the call button in the lavatory to advise a
   flight attendant to assist a passenger. D. Lavatory - A facility
   customarily used by passengers for their hygienic functions and
   appearance needs. E. Lavatory Enclosure - An auxiliary area contiguous
   to a lavatory that'can be separated from the passenger cabin so as to
   provide an extended area for privacy and maneuverabilitzy for
   passengers with disabilities. F. Sink and Amenities - The sink (or wash
   basin) along with a drain control and a faucet assembly to provide hot
   or cold water for washing needs. Amenities typically include toilet
   paper, soap, paper towels, and a vanity mirror. G. Toilet Flush Control
   - A switch that initiates the toilet flushing cycle. H. Transfer - The
   physical movement of a passenger between a passenger. seat, an.on-board
   wheelchair, and/or a lavatory toilet seat. Some-passengers can-perform
   an independent transfer using appropriate handrails, platforms;etc.
   'Others need physical 'assistance from another person to perform a
   dependent transfer. For passengers in the latter category, a variety of
   techniques may be used to lift the passengers clear off one seat, move
   them until they are over the other seat, and then lower the passengers
   into a seated position. A passeng.er's angular change of position is
   expressed in terms of "degrees of transfer," e.g., in a 90 degree
   transfer, a passenger is pivoted through a 90 degree arc. In a zero
   degree or lateral transfer, a passenger transfers laterally from seat
   to seat. It must be noted that there is a wide variety of transfer
   techniques and toileting methods, each with its own spatial
   requirements. The space required for a 90 degree transfer of a 97.5
   percent male with a personal attendant 2 . . who is also a 97.5 percent
   male should accommodate the needs of most other passengers with
   disabilities who use transfer techniques different from those described
   herein, whose method of using the toilet may not require transfer, or
   who use mobility aids. I. Signage - An accessible lavatory provides
   signage for individuals with visual impairments or who are blind. J.
   Warnings - Visual and audible warnings, are needed so that .indjviduals
   with visual. or hearing disabilities.'may be,instructed., . ,- to leave
   the lavatory when necessary. ,a . .' . . . . ' HUMAN AND ENVIRONMENTAL
   FACTORS A. Physical Characteristics of Users - Accessible lavatories,
   while modified for the needs of passengers with disabilities, c a n .
   be used by all passengers. The underlying presumption is that the
   purpose of the design is to make the lavatory accessible to and usable
   by adult passengers who must be transported in an on- board wheelchair
   to reach the lavatory. B. Aircraft Operating Environment - Consistent
   with 14 CFR Part 382.39, a flight attendant will assist the passenger
   in khe use of an on-board wheelchair, and operation of the
   lavatory/enclosure, but not passenger lifting within the lavatory or
   personal hygienic needs. RESPONSE TO ANPRM The Committee accepts as a
   basic principle that people with disabilities are entitled to levels of
   privacy, dignity, and independence equivalent to those afforded all
   passengers of commercial aircraft. The Air Carrier Access Act prohibits
   air carriers from discriminating.on the basis of disability, and these
   factors are,critical to meaningful implementation of the Act: While the
   Committee's-charter was to provide guidance concerning lavatory access
   on single-aisle aircraft with fewer than 200 passenger seats, further
   direction by DOT, as .well as the background of the Committee's
   membership limited the scope of the study to single-aisle aircraft with
   100 or more passenger seats. Given that direction, the work of the
   Committee focused on a series of airframe manufacturer design studies
   which were based on the "Suggested Guidelines for Accessible Lavatories
   in Twin . 3 Aisle Aircraft.'12 It was recognized that significant
   differences exist in the,space available on single aisle aircraft
   versus that available on twin-aisle aircraft. However, it was
   determined that it is possible to design lavatories for single-aisle
   aircraft with 100 or more seats which will accommodate persons with
   disabilities, including people who3use wheelchairs and require a 90
   degree dependent transfer. The Committee's review also revealed that
   the easiest and least ,expensive solutions tended to have.
   the,great-e.st impact. on cabin service and passenger flow, as well as
   limiting the accessibi$ity f . . _- provided to the lavatory.
   (Reference Design Concepts C and'D,- -__ :. Appendix A) G Solutions
   requiring extensive aircraft redesign tended to be more expensive in
   terms, of both revenue loss and manufacturing costs but provided for
   little to no disruption to _ passengers, cabin service, and other crew
   duties. (Reference Design Concepts A and B, Appendix A). These
   solutions also tended to provide the highest degree of accessibility.
   Following is a discussion of the nine issues on which DOT requested
   advice and the Committee's response to those issues, explaining the
   foregoing statements in more detail. Advice on : / 1. The degree to
   which it is possible to design for placement in a narrow-body aircraft
   a lavatory that will accommodate persons with disabilities, including
   those who use wheelchairs. 2. For the various cabin configurations of
   different aircraft types with. fewer than 200 seats, what physical
   layouts are possible to offer passengers at least visual privacy and
   the ability to maneuver in the lavatories? 2"Suggested Guidelines for
   Accessible Lavatories in Twin-Aisle Aircraft" is the title of a
   document prepared by an ad hoc working group comprised of
   representatives from airframe manufacturers airlines, disability
   advocacy groups, and Federal agencies. The Air Transport Association of
   America. maintains administrative control of the document. 3Fokker
   Aircraft representatives noted that dependent transfers are not
   possible in all cases due to space limitations in existing lavatory
   locations on some models of aircraft. 4 ... Comments: Drawing on the
   data in the "Suggested Design Guidelines for Accessible Lavatories in
   Twin-Aisle Aircraft" the Committee requested airframe manufacturers to
   provide layouts for a series of possible designs for different aircraft
   models with seating capacity of 100 to 199 seats. (Ref: Appendix A).
   The Committee reviewed those extensively at the September 16-17, 1992
   meeting of the Advisory Committee. Rather than reviewing detailed
   lavatory des,igns, the Committee focused on the-issue.of floor ., _
   space to ascertain if accessibility were feasible.: The .follow:ing ._
   _ ._ findings presume the use of a compatible'on-2board.wheelchair.- .
   ,-. a. Some aircraft types have structural elements which intrude into
   the cabin, such as the MD80 and Fokker 100 engine bulkhead mounts,
   and/or equipment placements which will limit enlargement of .lavatories
   in existing locations. b. On smaller aircraft, design, weight and
   balance considerations may constrain space availability and location,
   thus limiting the degree. of accessibility. C . Current lavatory
   configurations exist on all aircraft types which, with minor privacy
   improvements, wou.ld provide 180 degree independent transfer
   capability. (Ref. Design Concept D, Appendix A). d. Lavatories can be
   made more accessible by utilizing enclosures, which incorporate entry
   door space, aisle space, and galley work space, to create the
   accessible lavatory. In such cases, the wheelchair within the enclosure
   will project outside the lavatory door for approximately one-half of
   its overall dimension. In some cases, the wheelchair will project into
   enclosed aisle space or areas near exit doors. e. Configurations using
   lavatory enclosures which fully contain the wheelchair may provide
   equivalent privacy. Certain types of enclosures do not provide such
   level of privacy. . Another option would be to widen lavatory door
   openings and use the larger door to form one portion of a privacy
   barrier. This might be done in conjunction with some type of flexible
   barrier. In some aircraft, improvements in providing these types of
   privacy areas can be enhanced by relocating the lavatory door opening
   to another side of the module; thus changing the area to be used from
   an aisle to a doorway area. ' . f. The space required to.accomplish
   accessibility may vary from that provided by the "Twin Aisle
   Guidelines." Such variations may be possible with appropriate placement
   of walls, counter tops, and assistive devices to facilitate the
   transfer process. Variations can be verified by equivalent
   facilitation. ' 5 Advice on:, 3. What physical layouts are possible
   which would provide disabled passengers using an on-board wheelchair
   full maneuvering room inside the lavatory? What layouts would provi-de
   partial accessibility (e.g., a privacy curtain)? 4. Which designs can
   be.accomplished without the loss'of revenue seats?' Which designs can.
   be, accomplished with'only r .' _ :.\ _ - minimal loss of revenue
   seats?' . ._ .' . . Comments: Some accessible lavatory configurations
   can be accomplished without the loss of passenger seats. However,
   achieving full accessib-ility without passenger seat loss more often
   than not will cause loss of other amenities such as galleys and
   closets. A reduction in passenger seat pitch could also result in
   yielding less leg room in coach compartment. Such features represent
   marketing advantages to air carriers and their loss can also translate
   into lost revenue, although a much less tangible and quantifiable loss
   than that due to seat removal. / The more permanent the enclosure, the
   greater the seat or space loss. Designs which use temporary lavatory
   enclosures can usually be accomplished without the loss of seats.
   Designs which do not use temporary lavatory enclosures will cause.a
   loss of passenger seats or other amenities unless a limited transfer
   capability is acceptable. Minimizing the loss of seats in the latter
   case will depend on the type of aircraft and available locations for
   lavatories. The following accessible lavatory design concepts were
   developed as.described in'the comments to questions 1 and 2 and address
   the - potential impact to lavatory maneuvering room and revenue loss
   -with all aircraft models equipped with 100 to 199 seats: (Ref.
   Appendix A.) The conceptual diagrams depicted in Appendix A illustrate
   various.possible means to accommodate wheelchair accessible lavatories
   within different aircraft configurations. Spatial configuration was the
   primary consideration for these designs; other factors such as flight
   attendant access to the cabin jumpseats, emergency equipment (i.e.,
   fire extinguishers, first aid and emergency oxygen), and communication
   systems were not specifically considered. In some designs, access
   between the . b cockpit and the main cabin is restricted when the
   accessible lavatories are in use for short periods of time during the
   cruise phase of the'flight. Therefore, no inferences should be made
   regarding the ultima,te practicality of some of these diagrams.
   However, discussions during the meeting produced a clear understanding
   that a complete aircraft design process can and does account for all of
   these systems as required by applicable FAR Parts 25 and 121. . .
   Design C0ncept.A. Comprises an enlarged, fully-.cdntainedc ., .
   lavatory.which .allows fu.11 accessibility" .7 - _, 1 _. .
   including-go-degree dependent 'and independent.. - transfers from an
   on-board wheelchair. 'This -' design concept may result in the loss of
   2 first-class or 3 tourist-class passenger seats or 1 significant
   closet/galley unit." No commercially available aircraft lavatory
   configurations meet the spatial requirements of this concept, although
   some conceptual designs do. Design Concept B. Comprises an enlarged
   lavatory with enclosure which allows full accessibility including. 90-
   degree dependent and independent transfers from an on-board wheelchair.
   This design concept .may result in the loss of 3 tourist class
   passenger seats or a minor reduction in closet/galley space.'.No
   commercially available aircraft lavatory configurations meet the
   spatial requirements of this concept. Some proposed designs would meet
   this requirement. 'Diagram in Appendix A incorporating Design Concept A
   show the potential loss of 3 tourist class passenger seats. However,
   since these are conceptual designs only, during discussions on March 31
   and April 1, 1993, some Committee members suggested that the actual
   designs might result in the loss of 5 seats. 'Diagram in Appendix A
   incorporating Design Concept B does not show the potential loss of 3
   tourist class passenger seats, however dialogue during meeting of March
   31 and April 1, 1993, indicates that depending upon the location of the
   toilet, there may be a loss of 3 tourist class passenger seats. 7
   Design Concept C. -Comprises a slightly enlarged lavatory with an
   adjacent enclosure which limits access to no greater than a go-degree
   independent 'transfer from an on-board wheelchair. This design concept
   assumes no loss of passenger seats or closet/galley space. Several
   existing aircraft lavatory configurations, with minor modification, can
   meet the spatial requirements of this concept. This concept
   accommodates fewer persons with disabilities, than A or B .above. __
   ..; ,_ . . ,-, - ,. - .* . ,Design Concept D. Comprises ah existing
   standard size lavatory . with an enclosure which limits access to 180-v
   ' degree independent transfer from the on-board wheelchair. This
   configuration will ' generally prohibit access to wheelchair users who
   cannot stand. This design concept will not result in the loss of any
   passenger seats or closet/galley space. Most existing aircraft lavatory
   configurations, where modified to include the enclosure, can meet ..the
   spatial requirements of this concept. This concept accommodates fewer
   persons with disabilities than A, B, or C above. Some members of the
   Committee who represent persons with disabilities do not consider that
   concepts C and D meet the requirements of an accessible lavatory.
   Advice on: 5. How would such arrangements affect passenger traffic
   within the cabin, flight attendant duties in the galleys., and the
   passenger ease of access to the remaining lavatories? Comments.;. -.
   Configurations which use a self-contained lavatory do not by their very
   nature affect traffic in the cabin or crew activities except for normal
   use of this space for lavatory queuing and entrance, depending on their
   positioning. Configurations involving lavatory enclosures may occupy
   galley space and/or cabin aisle space when in use. These configurations
   may affect normal passenger movement, crew activities, and cabin
   service. Additionally, the aisle between two opposing lavatories may be
   used to create adequate enclosed space for'an accessible lavatory, thus
   eliminating use of the other lavatory by other passengers. 8 VlCP Qn :
   6. How might .such arrangements impair safety, if-at all? Comments: The
   Committee determined in some of the proposed configurations that it is
   possible to achieve accessibility . . without impairing safety. Safetv
   1~ ovev no= ly with 14 CFR Parts a. vice Qn: - I. 7, In small planes,
   where can the on-board wheelchair be stored? Comments: Different styles
   of on-board wheelchairs require different amounts of space. Most
   airlines have selected one chair which best matches their current fleet
   configurations. While not currently a requirement to carry the
   wheelchairs on board single aisle aircraft unless requested by a
   passenger, most carriers have elected to permanently carry them on
   aircraft with 100 or more seats. Most current aircraft configurations
   provide for space in a closet or floor-mounted bin. Space also exists
   in some configurations in overhead bins and under seats. Should these
   areas be removed or reduced in size to accommodate an accessible
   lavatory, available on-board stowage space may become an issue. : 8.
   Downto what size airplanes and for what types can accessible lavatory
   requirements reasonably be imposed? Per DOT instruction: this Committee
   considered aircraft with 100 seats or more based on the certified
   maximum capacity rather than operator-specific configurations. We
   received information on aircraft with fewer than 60 seats, but very
   little on aircraft with 60-99 seats. Much t with f e w e r 1OQ seats. .
   9 9. Should any requirements for accessible lavatories be made a
   function of stage length instead of airplane size, and if so for what
   stage lengths should such requirements be imposed? How would this
   approach alter air carriers' operational flexibility? Cpmments: . -. .-
   Members of the Committee agreed that aircraft size was the ' ...'. _=
   .- .' better parameter since airlines -use the same aircraft fok.a- *_.
   ('. variety of stage lengths. Operational flexibility would be greatly
   impaired by using a stage length criterion. : 1. Installation of an
   accessible lavatory can be achieved on both type certificated aircraft
   (aircraft in production) and new -type design aircraft. New type design
   aircraft, which are aircraft designs not yet certified by FAA, allow
   for a "ground up" systems approach that integrates the lavatory as part
   of the original aircraft layout. A new type design enables engineers to
   maximize the interior cabin space at a lower overall cost to the
   operator. Type certificated aircraft, which are already in production,
   may require extensive and costly design modifications to install an
   accessible lavatory. Production aircraft will require engineering
   feasibility studies to determine the structural and system
   modifications needed for installation of a new lavatory. In some cases,
   installation of an accessible lavatory may adversely affect the
   aircraft's flight characteristics as well as operational and safety
   procedures. : Accordingly, design, operational, and safety-assessments
   must .,be considered:, However, the existing types of aircraft .designs
   may be able to'be optimized by using current lavatory locations and
   the,use of existing space and moveable lavatory enclosures to provide
   an accessible lavatory that affords equivalent privacy. Current
   production aircraft design modifications must be certified by FAA and
   require approximately two years' lead time before the first aircraft is
   delivered to an air carrier. The costs associated with the installation
   of accessible lavatories vary by aircraft type,.size, and the degree of
   accessibility provided. 10 . .Each design concept discussed below has
   different space requirements. In some cases, the design'may lead to
   loss*of seats which can be quantified. -In other cases, the accessible
   lavatory can be accommodated by removing or decreasing the size of a
   storage unit or closet. This will have some effect on service but is
   non-quantifiable. Cost data were provided by air carrier
   representatives and airframe manufacturers. The estimates are based on
   the assumption of a 100 aircraft order. . an Concent A . fully
   contained lavatory allowing 90 degree. . . . dependent and independent
   transfer from anon-board wheelchair '-;.'; - Cost per aircraft =
   $150,000 - Possible loss of 2 F/C passenger or 3 T/C passenger seats
   ($300,000) revenue loss per aircraft or loss of one significant
   closet/galley unit (non-quantifiable) Pesign Concept R lavatory using
   lavatory enclosure allowing 90- degree dependent'and independent
   transfer from an on-board wheelchair. - Cost per aircraft = $170,000 -
   Possible loss of 3 T/C passenger seats ($300,00O)revenue loss per
   aircraft or loss of minor closet/galley space (don- quantifiable)
   Pesian Concept C : lavatory using a lavatory enclosure allowing only
   go-degree independent transfer from an on-board.wheelchair. - Cost per
   aircraft = $.l40,000 - No seat or space loss (no revenue loss per
   aircraft) tQ : lavatory using lavatory enclosure allowing only
   180-degree independent transfer from an.on-board wheelchair - C&t per
   aircraft = $20,000 - No seat.or space loss (no revenue loss per
   aircraft) 2. The Accessibility of a lavatory involves more than the .
   dimensions of the module itself. Use of the space is contingent upon
   the design of the on-board wheelchair. The degree of accessibility aiso
   depends upon the design and placement of grab bars, call buttons, call
   lights, signage, warnings, common lavatory amenities, 'sinks, and flush
   controls contained within the lavatory. . il . Departures from
   particular design concepts.are permitted where the alternate means
   provide substantially equivalent or greater access to, and usability
   of, lavatories or lavatory enclosures. Such alternative means are to
   permit individuals with disabilities to approach, enter, and use a
   lavatory as easily, safely, conveniently, and independently as the
   means described above would permit. Carriers can provide
   accessibility'by demonstrating that an alternative method will result
   in equivalent facilitation. - This demonstration is to. involve a
   statistically valid samp1.e i " _ : *. _ - of individuals with
   disabil.ities.and demonstrate independent : . . .' and assisted use of
   the lavatory: The demonstration is-to be - conducted by people trained
   in research techniques who are familiar with the physical requirements
   .of people with disabilities, including methods of transfer, toileting,
   and use of mobility aids. Any alternative method should be validated by
   a demonstration that provides accessibility. The methodology used.in
   the demonstration should be developed in consultation with individuals
   with training in research techniques who are familiar with the physical
   requirements of persons with disabilities, including methods of
   transfer, toileting, and use of mobility aids. 3. Effective Date of
   Final Rule The Committee agreed that the requirements for accessibility
   should reflect those that currently apply to aircraft with more than
   one aisle. In particular, that new aircraft ordered by a carrier after
   the effective date of the rule or delivered more than 2 years after the
   effective date-shall comply The .Committee believes that Design Concept
   A or B is feasible except in one model of one manufacturer's aircraft.
   Design Concept B would permit only independent transfer in that model
   of aircraft. A different design of-on-board chair might permit aircraft
   accessibility in that aircraft as currently designed. Some members of
   the Committee do not consider that concepts C and D meet the
   requirements of an accessible lavatory. 12 . . . , _ `_ .' I. : . . 4 _
   ' . . . , APPENDIX A (OS-am iiit~3xIv TISIV z!r-mNIs IIOLI smIoiLvAv?
   TI8Issm3v - SLdWN03 N!XSEIa TABLEOFCONTEW'S l BASELINECABIN
   CONFIGURAT10N l LAV DIMENSIONS (Minimums Per Guidclincs) . I FULL
   OEPENOENT TRANSFER a 90 DEGREE /NOEPENOEUT mAUSFER l CABIN LAYOUTS l/W
   SCALE a FULL PEPENOPNT TRANSFER (OESIGU CONCEPT A) 8 FULL DEPENDENT
   TRANSFER (DESIGU CONCEPT 6) m 90 DEGREE IU6EPEUOENT TRANSFER (DESIGN
   CONCEPT C) I 180 DEGREE INDEPENDENT mAUSFER (DESIGU CONCEPT 0) l
   LAVATORYLAYOUTS1/8SCG1,l~ 8 F&k1 DEPWDEUT TRANSFER I #O DEGREE
   INDEPENDENT TRANSFER (TEMP ENCLOSURE) I 180 DEGREE lUOEPENOElVr
   TRANSFER (TEMP ENCLOSURE) l ON-BOARD WHEEL CHAIR l/8 SC:AI,c;, April
   19th, 1993 A-2 t A-3 h) . . -- h) . . w A-5 . P A-6 . .a !al UE E ? -.I
   .a' ~VMkIlVlS lWlN3h . OV3H I 7d-* r -\ I 90 l A-8 MC DONNELL DOUGLAS .
   . l . 1. . . . . A-10 MC DONNELL DOUGLAS r""1 I- I I -- - $i 1 ;\-- 1 0
   0 A-11 MC DONNELL DOUGLAS I d--r MC DONNELL DOUGLAS A-12 LSL v L~L
   m3aomu ANVdlAIO3 3NI308 3HLL LWlIXIIV 31SIV 3IElNIS . ItOiI
   S3IlIOb.LVAV~ 318ISS333V SLd33N03 N3IS3CI 009-m i3aw NOllWklfl9l~N03
   3N113SWEi Wild `NI 2s - S&i30N3SSWd lslml 691 00\J . . --J W cl 0 > l-
   CL W c-l Z 0 c-l Z (3 u-l W I A-15 8 ld33N03' S!TINl-l133 axlm*
   kl3zEiNWUl lN3aN3d3aNI .06 3NllH311 a3smtl At4OlWhWl 371s atlwaNwls 13
   ld33No3 ~31~~s ~~SWA~~A a3~w3073ti ki34SNWkll lN3QN3dXl 1lfU moddns
   lwtlnmtl~s axmtl* AtiOlWAWl 3ZIs a3sW3H3Nl :B ld33No3 3klnS013N3
   AtMlOdH31 KIN kilWH3133HA t1Oti A1111E1SS333W llflzi AtlOlWhWl A3N
   3NlS013N3 AklWtlOdW31 9NlSn AUolWAWl 13WdWI ookm 73aow 3 CINW 8 ld33N03
   N31s3c3 I L \' , / \ I I I- ---AI 1 I- < & I- I 0 0 n--l l- - . . A-17
   L--l I,- 4 A-18 . . u --w-l u-l- 4L-l 1 z l-u 00 00 z CJ on-l O-O O-i -
   II D Z 0 . l-u A-19 A-20 LJ is Z 0-I 0 . A-21 0 c r wi t n\ I I I I I
   l(-Jl I I IpI I I PI I - I-l-l-J A-22 + 0 zz -0 .U m -0 A-23 . < 0 0
   l-7 !-a Em e - O0 rlil -' " Z r-d-III I-- 0 c-3 r D" -1 -0 --I' CF D UJ
   I I L-I-I-L--L-I-I-I-J A-24 II A-25 amCcn A-26 '37dWQX3 3AILQ33N Q SQ
   AINO Cl3SLl N339 3t10213t13HJ SQH ILJ 13, ILd33N03 'SiLN3W3klIn03kl
   SS3NIHLklOMUIQ 3'YltlQ3I'lddQ HtLIM 3t13Jt13tLNI N3IS3a AliO&LVhV~
   1'IIM N3IS3Cl AllOLQAQ7 SIHZ \ cl ,CI, ,Ld33N03 N3IS3U AllOtLQAQ7
   adoCcn A-28 I A-29 , APPENDIX B AIRCRAFT ACCESSIBILITY FEDERAL ADVISORY
   COMMITTEE JULY 29-30 MEETING WASHINGTON, D.C. SUMMARY MINUTES The
   meeting was called to order by'CoChairmen John Bollinger and Rirke
   Comstock. All members were present. Also present were representatives
   of advocacy groups and publishers. Verbatim transcripts of the meetings
   were taken and will be held at DOT for future reference. Members
   introduced themselves and their affiliations. The Committee was
   graciously welcomed by Assistant Secretary Shane and Don Trilling. The
   work of the Committee was greatly facilitated by the untiring support
   of Ira Laster and other DOT representatives. Prior to the meeting,
   members were provided copies of: 1. The original Federal Register
   notice announcing the formation of the Committee and detailing DOT's
   issues to be addressed; 2. the PVA co-sponsored Warren Report defining
   lavatory space needs for padsengers with disabilities; 3. the draft
   suggested Design Guidelines for twin aisle lavatories for passengers
   with disabilities. Since the Committee membership contains both people
   who were involved in developing the original guidelines above and
   others who were not involved, an extended discussion ensued concerning
   these documents and the issues they addressed. Concerns expressed in
   these discussions were, in many cases, similar to those expressed
   during the development of the original design guidelines document. This
   discussion was lively and productive. It is to the credit of the
   Committee members that the many complexities of this previous work were
   covered so expeditiously. The Committee then moved on to a review of
   the issues presented in the Federal Register. Initially it was felt
   that these could be clustered in some manner to provide a focus for
   work by Committee members. As the discussfon progressed, another
   approach emerged that showed more promise as a course of action to
   ultimately address the DOT issues. This approach could be generally
   described a% looking at real life situations in contemporary aircraft
   to form a basis for judgement. This would involve inspection of actual
   aircraft and evaluation of alternative design solution% for single
   aisle aircraft currently in production. Accordingly, an action list wa%
   developed a% follows: B-l Don Trilling announced that he will be off on
   a six-month special assignment that will limit his availability to the
   Committee. His involvement, concern, and wise counsel will be missed.
   Kirke Comstock John Bollinger . B-3 - - -- AIRCRAFT ACCESSIBILITY
   FEDERAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE DECEMBER 9 AND lo, 1992 DEPARTIYENT OF
   TRANSPORTATION HEADQUARTERS WASHINGTON, D.C. SUMMARY MINUTES The
   Committee met to continue its work towards development of a report for
   the Department of Transportation dealing with accessible toilets on
   single-aisle (narrow-body) aircraft. Attached to these minutes are: a.
   The November 16, 1992, Federal Reuister; Notice b. a list of attendees
   at December 1992 meeting b. a data sheet on smaller single-aisle
   aircraft c. presentation material on Fokker aircraft d. presentation
   material concerning accessible features on United 767-300 and 747-400
   lavatories Members again introduced themelves, followed by Ira Laster's
   discussion of a few "housekeeping" mattera. Robert Ashby briefly
   reviewed the lavatory and other accessibility requirements in DOT's
   exi8ting regulation implementing the Air Carrier Accwrr Act. He pointed
   out that there requirements are to be phased in over a period of time.
   The current chargo to the Advisory Committee involve8 single-aisle
   aircraft with loo-199 passenger seats. Suggestiopa for otherwise
   limiting (if at all) the size or quantity of aircraft to be modified
   included using: a. fircraft seat count (maximum capacity). b. Stage
   length (this wad viewed aa being difficult to measure and aunister).
   B-4 Following considerable discussion of possible approaches for
   addressing the "cut-off 1' matter, the one that seemed to have broadest
   support would be based on the following: a. Seat count (maximum). * b.
   A size cut-off for existing designs i.e., 100 seats. C . A size cut-off
   for new designs that goes further, e.g. 60 seats. d. Compliance
   required on new production aircraft delivered 2 years after the final
   rule is issued, or ordered after the effective date of the final rule.
   Although there was no consensus, a majority of the members appeared to
   support something along the above lines. Such an approach was thought
   likely to be presented in the final report, on the understanding that
   other points of view will also be reflected in it. The Fokker Aircraft
   Company presentation showed the difficulties that the Fokker 100 and 70
   aircraft would have, because any accessible lavatories would be bounded
   by large engine support frames and aft pressure bulkheads, much like
   the MD-80. Also, space that might otherwise be used to expand the
   existing lavatory area for accessibility purposes has been preempted by
   electric equipment. The discussion also emphasized the point that
   smaller commuter aircraft not only have seriously limited lavatory
   spaces, but also have access problems in general, due to the
   limitations created by the FAA Exit Row Rule and constrained space
   overall. The Committee's charter (100 seat lower cut-off), plus the
   limitations mentioned earlier, suggests that further consideration of
   smaller commuter aircraft is beyond the reach of the Committee. DOT
   ~~11, nevertheless, be encouraged to pursue a solution for these
   aircraft. B-6 This agrement, of course, places a heavy responsibility
   on members to provide information, concerns, data, etc., to those
   drafting the report. In particular, comments and data should cover: a.
   Scope of a rule . b. Timing of a rule C . Economic
   consequences/benefits d. Consistency with the twin-aisle rule - e.
   Other issues not cited by DOT f. Manufacturing cycle times g* Impact of
   smaller aircraft size on architectural and material design solutions h.
   Passenger cabin-operational safety issues ,1. Conflicts between safety
   rules and access rules (e.g., exit row rule) At the end of the meeting,
   the Committee again went through the nine questions in the original
   Federal Resister notice. These were repeated in the November 16, 1992,
   Federal Resister notice attached to these minutes. To summarize remarks
   at this point in the meeting: Question: 1. Can be done 2-5. Will be
   presented in final report with discussion, tradeioffs, etc. 6. Not
   negotiable, will be safe. 7. A number of locations, not a problem. 8.
   See earlier discussion in minutes. 9. See earlier discussion in
   minutes. Once again, the untiring and professional support of Ira
   Laster and Nancy Ebersole is gratefully acknowledged. Kirke Comstock
   Maureen McCloskey Attachments B-8 AIRCRAFT ACCESSIBILITY FECEFQL
   ADVISORY COXXITTZE September 16 and 17, 1992 WASHINGTON, D.C. SCWXRY
   XINUTES The meeting was called to order by Co-Chairmen John .Bollinger
   and Kirke Cornstock. Most members were present. Also present were
   representatives of advocacy groups and publishers. Verbatim transcripts
   of the meeting discussions were taken and will be held at DOT for
   future reference. PIenbers and guests introduced themselves and
   described their affiliations. The Committee was welcomed by
   representatives of the Secretary's staff. The work of the Committee
   continues to be greatly facilitated by the untiring support of Ira
   Laster and Nancy Ebersole from DOT. A copy of the agenda for the
   meeting is attached. As planned at the August meeting, the Committee
   then proceeded with the agenda and the assignments from the previous
   meeting. 1. Evaluation of "Tvnical" Aircraft for Accessibility:
   Excellent presentations were made by representatives of Airbus, Boeing,
   and McDonnell/Douglas. These were developed per the protocol attached.
   Copies were provided to all Committee members. Aircraft evaluated,
   generically, were A-321, MD-80, B-737-30 and B-727-200. All of these
   presentations showed that, in general, sufficient space existed to
   provide dependent trans- fer capability through the use of a lavatory
   enclosure (without seat loss). These were not detailed design studies
   for specific airlines, and details regarding crew seat placement,
   enclosure,material construction, etc., were not addressed. This was a
   "real estate" evaluation. These presentations generated comment,
   concerns, and questions. These included: a. Will future flight
   attendant direct view requirements compromise accessibility? It was
   agreed that this just becomes another item that must be accounted for
   in the final detailed design. There may be an impact on accessibility,
   seat count, or other factors. b. Airlines may have to accept seat loss
   to meet-a social need. Understood, but designers and airlines will
   continue to struggle mightily to avoid such an outcome. The airframe
   companies were complimented for their good work in developing these
   presentations. 2. On-Board Wheelchairs: We were shown three different
   on-board chairs. Some of them were used for subsequent evaluation of
   aircraft at DCA. While there was no need for Committee to make any
   specific recommendations to the FAA on.this subject, this presentation
   did provide further background for members. B-9 5. "Facilitation"
   Demonstration: mm~ Gerry Warren briefly relrFe**-ed the development of
   spatial requirements in his original PVA report (members have copies).
   He then proceeded to preview a videotape used to record the tests
   (using actual disabled subjects). These tests were conducted on a
   specific lavatory design as an "equivalent facilitation" to show that
   this design is adequate per the Design Guidelines. There was a side
   discussion about whether the Warren report numbers were "minimum" or
   "maximum." This will be resolved independently with Paralyzed Veterans
   of America (sponsors of the Report). 6. New Business: 1. Future meeting
   dates. The following dates were agreed to, for planning purposes: 12/9
   and 12/10/92 3/10 and 3/11/93 6/23 and 6/24/93 8/18 and 8/19/93 It may
   not be necessary to have all of those meetings. 2. Action agenda a.
   Aircraft size "cut off"; b. Feasibility of access to narrow-body
   aircraft; Existing guidelines document; and :: Issues Lavatory
   Enclosure as Defined in Existing Guidelines Document Seat Loss/Cost for
   Different Models of Aircraft Warren Video Committee Final Report
   Outline Discussion then ensued with the following outcome: 1. Aircraft
   size "cut off." Everyone agreed that 100 seats is clearly appropriate
   and that more understanding of aircraft in the 60-99 seat range is
   needed prior to deciding whether 60 seats is a more appropriate "cut
   off." ACTION: Mike Rioux, ATA and Walt Coleman, RAA to obtain data on
   any existing aircraft in the 60-99 seat size and forward to Ira Laster
   for distribution to Committee members. . APPENDIX C ..-- .{-:; APPENDIX
   C MEMBERS OF AIRCRAFT ACCESSIBILITY FEDERAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE NAME
   ORGANIZATION Robert C. Ashby Department of Transportation John
   Bollinger (Maureen McCloskey, Alternate) Paralyzed Veterans of American
   Barbara Cahill-Melendez Phoenix Community Council, Inc. Kirke Comstock
   United Airlines David M. Capozzi (Dennis Cannon, Alternate)
   Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board Speed D a v
   i s Massachusetts Office on Disability Nancy Ebersole Department of
   Transportation Pete Ellins Boeing Commercial Airplane Company Webster
   Heath (Dean Klippert, Alternate) McDonnell Douglas Aircraft Company
   Judith Heumann World Institute on Disability (Hale Zukas, Alternate)
   Holger Hindrichs Airbus Industrie of North America (Dennis Murphy,
   Alternate) Anne-Marie Hughey National Council on Independent Living
   Katharine Hunter-Zaworski Oregon State University Cheryl Hurst American
   Airlines, Inc. Mauricio Kuttler Federal Aviation Administration Ira
   Laster, Jr. Department of Transportation Dean Resch Federal Aviation
   Administration Michael F. Rioux Air Transport Association of America
   Harold W. Snider National Council on People With Disabilities C-l . .
   APPENDIX C CONTINUED Margie A. Tillotson Continental Airlines, Inc.
   Donald R. Trilling Department of Transportation C. Gerald Warren C.
   Gerald Warren and Associates Christopher J. Witkowski Association of
   Flight Attendants (Meg Leith and Mary K Haske, Alternates) Bob Williams
   United Cerebral Palsy Association c-2 OTHER PARTICIPANTS ON AIRCRAFT
   ACCESSIBILITY FEDERAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE NAME ORGANIZATION Andras
   Biesewig Deutsche Airbus Brad Brown Litchfield Group Joseph Canny
   Department of Transportation Paul Cohen Commuter Air Magazine Walter
   Coleman Regional Airline Association Hoyte Decker Department of
   Transportation Alan Driver British Aerospace Scott Hardman S.P.
   Aerospace, Inc. Arthur J. Hayes Federal Aviation Administration Donald
   Kamenz Dornier Aviation Suzanne Lubin International Airline Passenger
   Association Diana Lundie Regional Airline Association Shawn McDermott
   Paralyzed Veterans of America Karen Ott-Worrow Disability Law Reporter
   Service Bruce Rocholl Saab Aircraft Phillip Sarozek Southern California
   Safety Institute Robert Skornick Paralyzed Veterans of America David S.
   Stempler International Airline Passengers Association Robert P. Thurber
   Department of Transportation Joost Van De Griendt Fokker Aircraft Henry
   Van Doorn . Sara Yerks National Fire Protection Association c-3
   APPENDIX D `-2 + _-- . APPENDIX D ADVANCE NOTICE OF PROPOSED RULEMING
   8076 Federal Register / Vol. 55, No. 44 / Tuesday, March 6. 1990 /
   proposed Rules 14 CFR Part 382 docket on the Air Carrier Access Act
   Establishing a requirement for [DockotNo.4~ll;Notia00-101 rule.
   accessibility is consistent with DOT The Department made specific
   policy: the questions we have relate to RIN210&60 pmposals on the
   provision of boarding technical feasibility and cost. With equipment
   (including use of ground adequate information not forthcoming in
   Nondlscrlmination on the Bastr of wheelchairs, boarding chairs. ramps
   or the response to the NPRM of June 1988, Handicap In Air Trrvei.
   mechanical devices) to assist and in light of the commercial aviation
   AOLNCV: Office of the Secretary. DOT. passengers in enplaning and
   deplaning. system not having developed such and proposed a reries of
   design and facilities. the Department feels it has the ~~1100: Advance
   notice of proposed equipment requirements for accessible responsibility
   to lead a collaborative rulemaking (ANPRM). lavatories in the June 22
   1988 NPRM. effort to achieve ctinsensus regarding SUNMARI: Thir advance
   notice of That NPRM requested comment on these accessibility features
   so needed proposed rulemaking asks for comment whether mechanical lifts
   should be by those with severe mobility on a number of issues related
   to the required, as opposed to other means impairments. It intends to
   begin this rulemaking to implement the Air Carrier [e.g., boarding
   chairs, handlifting) to process through this ANPRM. Access Act of 1906,
   on which the assist disabled passengers on and off Subsequently, the
   Department would Department believes that more aircraft. and whether
   specific standards convene a conference concerning all of information
   is necessary before should be set for boarding chairs. With these
   topics. We would intend to engage decisions can be made. The Department
   regard to the accessible lavatory aircraft designers, lift designers.
   will propose to amend its final Air proposals. comments were requested
   on: representatives of the disability groups, Carrier Access Act rule
   if we conclude, (1) What alternative arrangements and the carriers, in
   an effort to find in response to comments to this notice. which would
   best protect the privacy of solutions which could provide a that
   additional provisions or changes in on-board chair passengera in using
   such substantive basis for rulemaking in existing provisions are
   wananted. lavatories and (2) how best to these areas. If necessary to
   provide DATES Comments should be received by implement accessible
   features in information or develop facilities, the July 5.1990.
   Late-filed comments will be lavatories without removal of revenue
   Department would also commit considered to the extent practicable.
   seats. resources to a research contract or The Department received few
   us& project for these purposes. AOORLULS Comments should be sent
   comments on these issues. Disability The Department requests technical
   to Docket Clerk. Docket No. 46811. groups stated that nothing in the
   ACM and economic information to complete Department of Transportation,
   400 7th exempts any aircraft from providing its rule in the following
   areas: Street, SW., Washington, DC 20590, accessible lavatpries
   regardless of a A. room 4107. For the convenience of Boarding
   Assistance on SmalI revenue seat Iosa. The airline indtitry
   Airplanes-The situation is very unclear Persons who will be reviewing
   the opposed any requirement for accessible on the present
   state-of-the-art docket. it is requested that commenten lavatories on
   aircraft under 199 seats technology in lift devices and boarding
   provide duplicate copies of their until it becomes technically feasible
   to chairs being used by operators of small comments. Comments will be
   available reconfigure cabin interiors at reasonable aircraft (below 30
   seats) to assist in for inspection at this address Monday cost without
   removing revenue seats. boarding and deboarding persons with through
   Friday from 9 a.m. through 530 limited mobility. With respect to such
   p.m. Commenten who wish the receipt Regarding boarding equipment,
   disability groups stated that mechanical devices. the Department seeks
   of their comments to be acknowledged lifts should be required that
   technology comments concerning their practicality. should include a
   stamped. self- exists to provide safe, dignified hoarding the safety of
   the disabled passengers addressed postcard with their and the crew
   trying to assist their comments. The docket clerk will date- of
   disabled persons. and that such boarding/deboarding. and the capital.
   stamp the postcard and mail it to the assistance should be required on
   all size aircraft. including lifting persons by operating and
   maintenance costs. commenler. hand if necessary, and if requested. The
   A long-standing but nevertheless cocl CURTHER INCORYATIDN CONTACR
   airline industry proposed exempting urgent problem is the need for a
   device Donald Triilmg or Ira Laster. Office of small aircraft from
   boarding that will facilitate the boarding and Policy and International
   Affairs. requlremmts, stat@ that lifting devices deboarding of many
   regional and Department of Transportation. 400 7th to fit small
   aircraft do not exist, and commuter aircraft by persons with St.. SW..
   room 9117. Washington. DC Etmng opposition to hand-carrying mobility
   impairments. Almost all such ~0. Telephone 20%36648l3. A taped
   pasrengen. aircraft board from the tarmac and copy of the ANPRM is
   available upon These comments contained little, if passengers with
   severe mobility request. any, new data on the costs, number of
   impairments sometimes are hand- SuPPuYENTAUV WCORYATIOK This revenue
   seats requiting displacement. carried up and down narrow stairs built
   advance notice of proposed rulemaking and other advantages and into the
   aircraft door, which have weight (ANPRM) requests comment on two
   disadvantages of alternative approaches limitations. features of great
   importance to those to meet accessible lavatory and Hand-caving a
   person up stairs is with mobility impairments: (1) Lifts and boarding
   assistance requirements. The dangerous and often can cause physical
   other boardmg equipment for use in Department does not have sufficient
   stress and potential injury both to the regional and commuter aircraft
   and air data of its own, at the present time. In passenger and to
   carrier or airport taxis, and 21 accessible lavatories and the absence
   of such information. it personnel. Further. many operators of
   narrowbody (i.e.. aircraft with only one would be premature to
   promulgate final small aircraft have few personnel at aisle) and
   smaller aircraft. The A!qPRM regulations. Consequently. the some
   terminals. necessitating special also seeks comment on matters
   Department decided to publish this advance planning to accommodate
   concerning eddltional accommodations ANPRM to acquire additional
   persons with severe mobility limitations. for penons with hearing
   impairments information needed to further implement For these reasons.
   the final ACAA rule that were mentioned in comments to the the Air
   Carrier Access Act (AMA). does not require hand-canymg. D - l Federal
   R&m I VoL 55, No. 44 / Tuesday, March 0, 1990 / Proposed Rules Coda
   rhuring arrangements between not compatible with at kart two modek
   entrance by passengers using the on- major carriers and regional and of
   aircraft currently in rervice. board wheel chair. nor would the means
   commurcr carriers has been incnaring From the comments received in of
   privacy have to be equivalent IO that the tendency for persons with
   severe response to the NPRM, the Department of other persons.
   disabilities to travel on small aircraft. is not aware of any other
   efforts to build The june see NPRM sought comment Adding to the
   mculties for smd a device intended to arsist persona with on how the
   disabled user's privacy can carrier8 are Hringent schedule8 which
   mobility limitations to board and - best be protected. What features
   could often require short rum-around timer. deboard small l i&zaft. .
   be implemenled at rearonable cost? Some carriers hand carry passengers
   00 With rupect to lifting devica the Could a curtain or screen
   arrangement and off planes became it ia the quickest Department meLo
   wmmeatr provide adequate privacy? Could a door way to load them and
   avoid flight COBWdBg or privacy curtain be installed without delays. .
   The name8 and addresses of cfwing uatr to be removed. erpecially A
   related problem is the naed for a mmufacturen; in rmalkr aircraft?
   Could there be space "boarding chair", specifically derigned l The nams
   and addresses of to allow a wheelchair to maneuver at to fit narrow
   cabin spacer. that can curien who have or vc currently ruing the door
   and allow a person to enter the maneuver their narrOw aisles. Carrien
   ruch devices; lavatory without causing the removal of slaim thal two
   personnel are needed to l Type8 of aircraft served; reatr. erpecially
   on smaller aircraft? lift parrengen who an completely l Dimensions:
   What lead time would be needed to physically immobile from boarding l
   principle of operation; allow for the technical development of chain to
   a cabin seat. l Transportabilitr, an adequate facility? If a facility
   could The Department desirer to aosure the l Maneuverability: not be
   developed to meet there widespread availability of mechanical l
   Stability: requirementa would a lesser degree of lift devices and the
   regional airline l sourw of power (e.e.. on tXmld# privacy be
   acceptable (e.g., a privacy industry has made a concerted effort to
   electrical. etc.); curtain over the door)? have such devices developed.
   l Corta of acquisition and operation: Based on the comments received.
   Bventudly, DOT hopes to be able to l General charaaerirtia such as lift
   there was little agreement on what facilitate their we through
   rulemaking. pktfonnr. controls and safety f-hues; degree of
   accessibility was possible on but il cam01 do so yet without defmitivt
   Md narrowbody planer. The Department data on the avaikbility and
   workability l Operational expcdence. has determined that this is a
   complex of existing devices. If a suitable device 8. Mess&b &veTbe
   ability quastion tied more to specific o-aft does not exist. the
   Department will to provide kvatory l cc%u &es widely type than to
   aircraft riza calegorier encourage the development of such with regard
   to individrul aircraft interior which could not be anaweml with devices
   capable of lifting passengers cabin designs. A rule that kvatorier
   rufficient certainty for rulemaking. What from ground level to the
   aircraft door must be fully or partially accessible is needed is
   additional technical and and vira versa. These vertical could require
   substantial loss of revenue economic information focusing on these
   conveyance devices should be seats due to the present oonstmintr in
   issuer from those who design the developed and put into 8arvice at the
   the configuration8 of some aircraft interion of airplanes, the disabled
   earliest possible date. cabinr. While the final rule individual8 who
   would use these In 1987, SSO,OOO WOB provided by the implementing the
   ACAA will require facilities, and the air carrien to whom Congress lo
   the FM to forter the ruch lavatories for wide-body airpkner. thir will
   be one more added feature to development of a lifting device that on
   the premise that moti are of be included as part of their service to
   would provide improved accem by auffident aixe that ruch special the
   disabled community a broad handicapped pemonr IO cornmartial amrqementa
   can be acwm.modated, segment of the public. aircraft. The FM formed a
   working narrOWbody (e.g., 727,737, DC-0 and ivmwbodyAillcmf[l~lss group
   consisting of the paralyzed smalkr airplanes) would requira major
   reats)-Clearly it is possible to squire a Veteran8 of America, the
   Regional design changer in the lavatory and fully or partially l
   ccesrible lavatory in Airline Association, and the American adjacent
   area, and in some uses, galley narrowbody planer but only at the high
   Asrociation of Airport Executive8 to relocation. to provide reasonable
   access cortr of roughly 3 to (I lort revenue reatr consider how best to
   utilize there fimdr and privacy. The Department seeks and considerable
   inconvenience for Bared on their deliberations. the FM comment
   concerning lavatory design other passengers. The Department bar issued
   a solicitation to develop a pouibilitier and associated costs on all
   e8timater the cost for such requirements boarding chair to fit cabin
   dimensions of ruch aircra.ff modek which would allow would range from
   MO to Saoo million ten different small plane:. accessible lavatory
   objective8 to be met annually by the year 2000. Concurrently, this
   working group is without 1088 of Beats, or minimal lo88 of Some have
   suggested an accessible mnsidering the alternatives regarding seats,
   and would not jeopardize safety. lavatory could be provided on vertical
   conveyance devices. This world The NORM for the ACM final rule
   narrowbody aircraft by combining two has not advanced to the point
   where addressed accessibility of aircraft adjacent lavatories or 2
   crosr-aisle there could be certainty in imposing a lavatories at two
   levels. The fully lavatories. This raiser question8 as lo phuticukr ret
   of requirements tlmugb accessible level, proposed for larger what
   inconvenience would result to rulemaking. waft, conridend a lavatory
   with other parseengm, with aisles and The Department also ir nware that
   specific accessible hardware ferturer lavatories blocked off, and/or
   abler Mid-Canada Equipment Saks. Ltd., has and large enough to permit a
   penon occupied by beverage cartr. Passenger built a prototype lift
   device which has u8ing an on-board chair to enter. traffic & the
   galley anal and the boa tested successfully with a maneuver, transfer
   and bve. A second ability of the flight urn to perform DeHavilland Dash
   (I airoapt Mid- partially accessible kvel lavatory. with necesrary
   functiona in the galley are Canada har completed five devicea that the
   mme acmsrible hardware was also concerns. Taking away galley space will
   be evaluated by five wonal propored for rmalier planer Such to he space
   for accerrible kvatorier carriers. The praent design, howewr. i:
   kwtodea would BOt -tire full ako prenntr service uoblunr for other D-2
   Fedaml R e g i s t e r / V o l . 55. h'a 4 4 / Tueday, -I&r& 8. 1990 /
   prepsed R&M passengers. Thus. there remain major relocation would he
   axpenrive: p&ably comment on the indirect economic questions as t0 nbat
   rad mta au expensive a9 remo*ing seah 40 ueatc impad of dtig SO (i.e,
   if mot-ies were would do to tdic ilorrr thugs the a privacy anza.
   captioned. many persaw in addition 10 t-w&~. and hww such altered
   traffic TheATAcimdahmHvufa tlmse with hew impairment8 &d patterns would
   impair sshty md aasdsle lwatorias k&ding be ab!e to mre f&y enjoy ntiu
   iatufue~dight~~tivns. rrconfigurativnaramoddaga!ky wi&oU rentiq a
   headret 4&b could SmdY nirnqft lQ-laa n!ats)-ltw wbihwuuld entan
   extlmrlc eqsare adversely affect headset revmue). eir)inc indm. the
   Boeing Company and cornWe l dear ondue fmancirl The read r-i was for
   and -1 Aviation Mannf&lurua burden . providing telecommunicationa
   devices Asmcialicm (CAMAj representotiw3 . ~ordepurpbaadthidMP!tMthe
   for the deaf Irws) in on-board p&me assUed the exbting cabin rpace and
   Department &Ma comment on the banks. lair -ice L provided on LOme lava-
   apace in turrent 6bl(;o seat following queetionrr: aircraft. Where it
   is. should there be aircrsflasbeingrtrp!igM:norosanto l For the rrr!eus
   cabin eonfi~urationr TDD a8 well as voice phone service disrobe. no
   room For au -ant. and of different aircraft types (under zw evaflabk?
   whet COSt and feasibility the toilet ir oppooitu Ihe Qor in most
   rears), what ysical layoab are cmrideratims are involved? What aiug
   requiring a person in an cm-board pouskk to of?er parsengm at leart
   degree ef u8a,ge of 7'DD semice in it chair ta exe&-e a lK9 degree turn
   \o visual privacy, and the ability to revonable to espect? transfer to
   the toilet Seat. m ?kif maneuver in Ihe lavatorie8l opinion. tltm ir no
   avaaable mom in RegulM Swum Manm l What physical layoab am posdbte
   roBteJsment-tmfiOtlrrtion#trl which would mde &bled The discusekm in
   his tie is not create I @vary wea outside the passenger8 full-manes*
   n30ca ruing designed to resolve matters of policy. lavatory wi&owt 6e
   poa8iMe Rnroval vf the on-board chair inaide the Irvabxy? b&rather to
   determine how best to one to tbrt revwut aeal per aiicrah What layouts
   would provi& peltid ovcranm tedmial and economic
   CAMAwasnot6rmoa4eaeatbw acceuibtli~y. meaning a privacy uvaj
   limitations con~tniniqg policy. Thi5 estimate pointing out that the
   problem curtain outride the lavat0xy? callr fix a bomeuhat innovative
   will direr by manufacturer. dependi- l Whim designa uia be aocompliahed
   procedun, dif?&nt from standard on the airuah cosmgYrr\ion ThIr dthou~
   the 1418 d r8venue seats? rulemaking.Iherel~re~ through tir
   reprent~tive apcrulated en a number Which design can be rccompliled
   wirb Am the Dqmunent k requestbg of pouible ways to meet the NPRM only
   a minimal iou of revenw sea&? unamenb on tha above issue3 from all
   requiramentr which might avoid toa of interested parti= disability
   @roupa lift seat& i%r exam& most favatorie8 on desim and manulcturers
   airplane such aircrafl art? located 11 the fadaa8t designcn and
   manufachmm aad air poiat in the rear cabin where pcopk CM carriera
   within 90 days. TIM comments stand up. and It might be possible in will
   be rwiewed and. if necessary. the some confrguratioan to hook up a
   curtain DepanmenI will publish summaries of acroab the tiak L, front of
   the la-toy the various viewpoint8. and create a privacy area, providing
   a l lnmdlplauu,whneantheaih The Department anticlpater a galley is not
   locatad in the rCat chain bc ~~IHM conference of these -e interest
   groaps Newly manufactured airoran of l Down to what size aiipranes and
   to briny deeignenr and rrsen Erom rhe current txrtif!icated type daaii
   6th what trpa ma a& reqniransntr disabled community tO&ar for an both
   the lavatory olrd galley knxted in mefnmbtybttmporeb? exchw of
   in&nnatin If neceasay. the rear cabin {more than R16 OT a&an l Should
   the mqnhementr for the Departmenl would ah engage a have this
   configuration) mi&t be accearible Iaratuin be ma& a fun&cm contraclor
   to rtudy one or more of the redesigned to uetie a privacy area by of
   rtap Ierr@% fi.t., &e IengIh vf t.?m isrues. After a review of the
   inio7mation relocating the galley up front in the flighI rrhicb the
   r&&l Pe&ms) we obtain, the Department *sill make a cabin where e coat
   closet prumtly inntmd ef airplane rize, and if m for decisioa on taking
   additional regulatoq exiti, in most mod&. CAMA cibed
   what8tageIuq&wti&rrch action covedn~ the areaa d inquiry. many
   potential problem8 emociattd lqdTeaen~ be inlpoud? `Ihir A- h not a
   erior ale under with this option eg., the galley may not C. Additional
   Ammnodotions for Exccutivr Order IZZBI. It ir a oignifiunt be able to
   fit in the c-t &act or other Hemihg Itnp~ind Amens-In the rule ander
   the Dqartment.8 Repulatoq space up front in the cabin without Se&
   commenlr to the ACM ntlemaklng Policies 4ad Proceciuree. Becausa rbr
   removal: many galley, are built din&y dock&. commenters arked for rome
   docunwnt requesta com~ta on into the airczaft and maa&- muat additional
   accommodations for Panow feasibility and uut iuuea about which assure
   that the new galley would wlih hearing impairmmb. Becaure the the
   Deparln~anl currently hns litrle withstand bearing load in a crarh
   Department ir unew of the technical or InfonWiop the Department ir not
   situation. A very rough order of ecmomk faatiity of theso prep- n
   regulatory evalurition nt his magnit& estimate of Ibe average C&
   wggwlion8. we felt it was not time. An avaluation would be prepared of
   galley relocation ir S7S.tYX to bOO.OUI appropriate to dispose of lbem
   in the with rtapec! lo any future rulentakiq per lava&ry. The coot of
   redesigning the final rule. resulting from ti ANPRM. There are ME 148
   model aircraft to relocale the The &8t wad for captioaiq of in-tliit
   not any Federalism implicatioru to this galley in the kxtt of the &in
   was moviea. Many beati- waited pstronn ANPRM. and a Federalism
   Asaetsmaat estimated at rwghly SXXI,M~O total coat could not fully
   enjoy in-lb&t movie, consequently has not been prepared. per &craft.
   CAMA doer not foreaee a becaure they could MI hear the round The
   Departmml will determine. a! a reduction in these cO8ts dw to !utw
   track 011 the headphone& Cpptinniq later time. whether there are rry
   small economies Of scale. because the total movias would l l&viate thi,
   problaa~. entity impacL for whetever propas& numb= of aircran in this
   claor to be The Department 8f3k8 wmmwt on the derive frwp Thor notice.
   A Regulatory replaoed umually is tw sasalf to @`ify cost and
   feasibility of eeptiw Flexibility Andysir wodd be premature amatization
   d be coatr. Thus, galley movier. Ibe Dapartm8nt also reeks l !thkpoipr
   D-3 Fedenl Regirter I Vol. 55. No. 44 I Tuesday, March 6. IWO I
   Proposed Rules tUM1 I Iswed thlr ~8th dry of Febnmry 1%. rt `Aarhmgfon.
   DC. Samuel K. SkiIuIu. Secrrlar), of Tmnsponcfion. [Fit Dot. 9MW5 Fded
   S2-90: 8~45 MI] j -coo(*w-e?a . 49 CFR Put 27 RtN 21054082
   Nondturlmhutbt on Ube Bmb of Handlap In Fdwally-krbtuf ProOnmr A&W
   Office of the Secretary. DOT. . ;~~t,.~otxe of proposed rulemaking D-4
