http://www.ssa.gov/vendor/

              Office Of Finance Vendor Payment Center Main Logo
                          Site Last Updated: 1/3/02


                             Bobby Approved Logo

    Division Of Administrative Payments Vendor Information Page Main Logo



   Social Security's Search Site
   Social Security's Privacy Policy
   Social Security's Online Website
   Text Version Of This Web Site

      SSA Main Complex Java Applet Sorry, your browser doesn't support
                                  Java(tm).



    The Office of Finance's Division of Administrative Payments services
   SSA's vendor community by providing accurate and timely vendor payments
              in accordance with federal laws and regulations.


     What's New Logo

     Animated Blue Ball Direct Deposit Enrollment Form-3881:


     For the convenience of our vendors, we now have a Direct Deposit
     Enrollment Form-3881 that you can fill in and print. Click here and
     type in the necessary information to enroll in direct deposit and print
     the form. The form can be faxed or mailed to the Office of Finance.

     Animated Blue Ball Financial Interactive Voice Response System:
     We are pleased to announce the implementation of the Financial
     Interactive Voice Response (FIVR) System. FIVR is an automated
     self-service telephone system available 24 hours a day that allows
     direct electronic access to administrative payment information using
     the telephone keypad. Vendors providing goods and/or services to SSA
     can obtain the most current payment processing activity by using the
     telephone. For more information visit our Customer Service page
     Benefit Payments Logo
     The term "Benefit Payment" refers to all Social Security and
     Supplemental Security Income (SSI) beneficiaries. Please click the link
     below for information on applying for direct deposit of your monthly
     BENEFIT PAYMENT, or for more information 24 hours a day call Social
     Security's toll free number 1-(800) SSA-1213.
     [rolloverbenpayup.jpg]
     [benpay2off.jpg]
     Vendor Payment Information
     The term "Vendor Payment" refers to a business or person that
     provides a service and/or goods to the Social Security Administration.
     This section is for VENDOR'S who need to establish direct deposit
     PAYMENTS. Please click below for additional information available to
     the business community.
     How Do Vendors Sign Up For Direct Deposit?
     How Long Will It Take To Receive My Payment?
     What Is The Status Of My Payment?
     I Need Acquisition Related Information

     I Need To Contact SSA About A Vendor Payment


                This site is best viewed in 800 x 600 resolution.



                    Site Data Manager: paulette.lutz@ssa.gov



              Site Designed and Maintained by: gary.d.smith@ssa.gov
