http://www-fbsc.ncifcrf.gov/rickresearch.html

   Welcome to the ABCC Website!


   ABCC website:  About ABCC Accounts  Hardware  Runable programs
                    Links    Software Networking     Training
   [logo55.gif]

   Search in ABCC pages _______________

   Search Reset
   GENERAL INFO
   Home
   Mission Statement
   Email us
   HELP DESK (301-846-5555)
   Staff
   User support (web-based)
   Training
   Tutorials
   Hardware Messages-of-the-Day
   Research
   Services
   High Performance Computing
   Video Conferencing at the FCRDC
   BIO-LOGUE Archives
   SOFTWARE
   QUICK LINKS

   [Select one__________________]
   HARDWARE
   Cray Research
   Cray SV1-4/96-96 Supercomputer
   J916 Classic Vector Computer
   J932se Vector Computer

   Silicon Graphics, Inc.
   Onyx Computer
   Power Challenge Superscalar Computer
   Origin 2000

   Digital Equipment Corporation
   Alpha 8400 Superscalar Computer

   International Business Machines
   Scalable PowerParallel 2 Superscalar Computer

   Hewlett Packard/Convex
   Exemplar UniTree Data Archival Computer

   StorageTek
   9311 Nearline Robotic Tape Silo

   Sun Microsystems
   Sun Sparc 20 workstation
   Sun Sparc 20 workstation

   MISCELLANEOUS
   FCRDC Home
   Library
   Site map
   [pixel.gif]
   Examination of Large-Scale Motion in HIV-1 Protease
   A Research Project of Dr. Steven W. Rick
   Proteins often undergo large conformational changes as part of their
   function. These conformational changes may be the result of ligand
   binding in order to position the substrates correctly for catalysis, or
   the changes may be part of a receptor-signaling pathway. Structural
   changes in other proteins have important consequences in Alzheimer's
   disease and prion diseases. On the other hand, observed conformational
   differences in X-ray structures may be the results of crystallization
   conditions or crystal lattice forces, and are not necessarily related
   to the protein's function. Computer simulations can help to
   characterize the energetic and dynamic relationships of the different
   conformations; however, the time scales of these changes for proteins
   are typically too long for conventional molecular dynamics or Monte
   Carlo simulations. These problems preset a challenge both to
   computational resources and theoretical methods, requiring specialized
   techniques. In addition to studying the energetic relationships between
   two known structures or proteins, we are also interested in predicting
   how the ligand-enzyme structure changes as a result of mutations.
   Alternate Conformations of the Same Protein
   One protein which has demonstrated two stable conformations is the
   protease of the human immunodeficiency virus, type 1 (HIV-1).
   Inhibitors of HIV-1 protease are potent therapeutics for the acquired
   immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) and, in the pursuit of inhibitors,
   many crystal structures of the enzyme have been determined, perhaps
   more than for any other protein. There structures indicate a
   significant difference between the ligand-free and inhibitor-bound
   enzyme. The enzyme is a homodimer with each subunit containing 99
   residues. The active site region is capped by two identical ß-hairpin
   loops (the flaps) from each monomer. In the inhibitor-bound structures
   the flaps adopt a closed conformation, forming direct contacts with the
   substrate. In the ligand-free structures the flaps are more open with
   the position of the tip residues about 7Å from the inhibitor-bound
   conformation. The flaps are therefore flexible and must move in order
   for substrates to bind since, in all of the known structures, they
   block access to the active site. In addition, HIV-1 [rick1.jpg]
   protease and the closely homologous protease of the simian
   immunodeficiency virus (SIV) have been observed to adopt the closed
   conformation in the absence of a ligand. The open and the closed forms
   have root-mean-square overlap of Ca atoms of 2 Å, and the differences
   between them cannot be represented in terms of a few degrees of
   freedom, such as a dihedral angle. One general method to calculate the
   difference in stability between the two very different structures is to
   find a series of intermediate structures which represent an incremental
   conversion from one structure to the other. The free energy difference
   between two similar structures can be readily calculated and the entire
   free energy difference between the initial and final structure can be
   pieced together from the free energy change between each neighbor. This
   involves calculating a path between the two structures represented by
   the series of replicas. Finding a minimum energy path is done by
   minimizing the energy of each structure, but in such a way that keeps
   the path straight and the structures evenly spaced along the path. The
   minimization is with respect to all atoms of the system (HIV protease
   has about 3000 atoms) for each replica (this application required about
   100 replicas). THe calculations needed to compute the free energy
   differences are even larger. Once the path is found, then the free
   energy along the path can be calculated by performing a series of
   simulations, one for each replica point along the path. These
   calculations, requiring enough time to adequately sample the phase
   space around each point (about 50 ps) and also the addition of 3000
   water molecules to represent the solvent environment, take about 2
   months to complete running around the clock on a fast Digital ALPHA
   computer. For ligand-free HIV-1 protease, these calculations predict
   that the free energy of the open structure is less than the closed
   structures by -7±3 kcal/mol. The open form is the structure observed by
   X-ray crystallography. Interestingly, the more stable structure does
   not appear to have a lower potential energy, but rather is stabilized
   by entropy. The entropy for the transition, -TDS, is -11±10 kcal/mol
   and the energy change is 4±12 kcal/mol. The increased conformational
   freedom of the flap tips in the open structure is evident from X-ray
   crystallography experiments as well. For the open structures, the
   B-factors which relate to the dynamic motion of the Ca atoms of the
   flap tips (residues 49-51) are roughly twice as large as the average
   for all the Ca atoms. For the closed structures, including those with
   no substrate, the B-factors of the flap Ca atoms are not different from
   the average. The closed structure is stabilized by stronger
   interactions between the flaps, most importantly a hydrogen bond
   between the two flap tips. The transition occurs through a collapse and
   reformation of the ß structure of the conformationally flexible,
   glycine-rich flap tips rather than moving as rigid domains.
   Mutations and Conformational Relaxation
   Inhibitors of HIV-1 protease are potent therapies for AIDS, however,
   mutants resistant to protease inhibitors can emerge in vivo in a short
   time. The in vivo mutation patterns are consistent with the in vitro
   data for the effects of the mutations on the binding constant, Ki. One
   common mutation which arises against a number of inhibitors is a change
   of isoleucine 84 to valine (I84V). Free energies for the change in Ki
   due to the mutation can be calculated using molecular dynamics
   simulations be free energy perturbation or thermodynamic integration
   techniques. These methods do not depend on empirical parameterization
   of free energy terms and are exact calculations of the free energies,
   depending only on the quality of the interaction potentials used.
   Similar to the conformational calculations described above, the
   thermodynamic integration calculations are done by proceeding along a
   path (in this case an unphysical one) in which the residues are slowly
   converted from one amino acid to another, which once again requires
   large amounts of computer time. In addition to predicting free energy
   changes associated with the mutations, these calculations can also
   increase our understanding of the molecular origins of resistance and
   may help in the development of better anti-viral strategies. The
   effects of this mutation on the binding constants, Ki, of the three
   inhibitors, L-735,542 (indinavir or MK-639), Ro 31-8959 (saquinavir),
   and KNI-272, to HIV type I (HIV-1) protease have been calculated using
   a thermodynamic integration method. Mutations which lead to resistance
   can occur in many locations on the enzyme; I84 is one of the residues
   with side chains in direct contact with the inhibitor - in the binding
   pockets S1, S1', S2 and S2'. The Cd methyl group of the Ile, which will
   be absent in the mutation to a valine, is in the S1 and S1' pockets.
   HIV protease is a homodimer, each monomer containing 99 residues. (The
   residues of the second monomer are denoted with the prime superscript).
   The calculated free energy changes for the three different inhibitors
   are all within 1 kcal/mole of the experimental results and the trend is
   also in agreement. The free energy change due to the mutation of I84',
   rather than I84, changes the most among the three inhibitors. The size
   of this term is consistent with the bulkiness of the group in this
   pocket and so the mutation of the Ile to a smaller Val would be
   expected to leave the largest cavity between the enzyme and the
   inhibitor. Ro 31-8959 has the largest group in this pocket. An analysis
   of the trajectories generated in the free energy calculations reveals
   that cavities are created by the mutation. The size of the cavities
   induced by the mutation correlates well with the free energy changes,
   with a coefficient relating the cavity volume to free energy in the
   same range as that found in protein stability studies. Thus, similar
   free energy penalties results from creating interior cavities both for
   protein folding and ligand binding. For the cavities in the S1' pocket,
   the volume change of the cavity is the largest for KNI-272, which has
   the largest DA(S1'), and the smallest for Ro 31-8959, which has the
   smallest DA(S1') and the largest P' substituent. The interior cavities
   can also be predicted based on the wildtype structures; in the S1'
   binding pocket, the predicted cavities are larger than the cavities
   determined from the mutant structures, in which the structures have
   been allowed to adjust to mutation. This means that there is
   significant relaxation in this region. In the S1 binding pocket, there
   is not a large difference between the predicted and the actual mutant
   cavity sizes. Both of these problems - the relative stability of two
   structures and the difference in the binding affinity between two
   different mutants - involves calculating a free energy difference. The
   calculation of free energy involves specialized simulation techniques
   which require more computer processing time than typical simulations
   but also provide an additional level of information. As demonstrated
   this these calculations, computer simulations can help in our
   understanding of drug-binding and also provide a useful tool in
   studying conformational equilibria, which can complement X-ray and NMR
   structure determination methods.
   Benefits of Scalable Increases in Compute Power
   The calculations of the free energy changes described here require
   large amounts of computer time in order to adequately sample over all
   the degrees-of-freedom of the system. The number of degrees-of-freedom
   can be very large. The machines used for these calculations, running at
   about 100 megaflops, take from three weeks (CPU time) for the mutation
   calculations to three months (CPU time) for the conformational change
   calculation. In order to make these calculations routine enough to be
   used as part of a drug design process, machine speeds will need to be
   increased by two orders of magnitude to ten gigaflops.
