http://www.iig.ca.gov/employment/recruitment_flyer.pdf

   About Innovation in Government Bring your ideas for innovation and make
   a difference! Projects reflect a diversity of subjects and disciplines,
   but all projects relate to Innovation's core mission of fostering a
   customer-driven government that effectively serves the needs of every
   Californian. We focus on state practices and processes that have the
   most direct and significant impact on Californians. Projects generally
   relate to Change Man- agement, Collaboration or Appreciation: · Change
   Management: Innovation initiates and leads focused efforts to improve
   government operations. Exam- ples include projects to envision and
   design the DMV of the Future and permit citizens to renew their vehicle
   registra- tions on the Internet. · Collaboration: A key role for
   Innovation is to bring groups together to explore critical issues or to
   develop new initiatives. Examples include projects to explore
   eGovernment design and foster energy-related collaborations. ·
   Appreciation: A key goal of Innova- tion is to communicate results,
   lessons learned and innovative best practices. Does Changing the
   Examples include sponsoring large execu- tive leadership forums and a
   project to establish a repository of best practices and Face of
   Government awards. Appeal to You? For more information visit our
   website: http://www.iig.ca.gov The Governor's Office for Innovation in
   Government is looking for talented, creative, and motivated individuals
   to assist the Davis Admini- stration efforts to improve the level of
   service to Californians. Positions exist at three levels: Project
   Manager: Assume full responsibility for project initiation and
   management. A key requirement is the ability to facilitate interagency
   groups and represent the IIG on matters of statewide impact. Project
   management experience and familiarity with a variety of disciplines and
   agencies is required. For more information visit our website:
   http://www.iig.ca.gov or Contact Russell Snyder, Project Manager
   Project Analyst: Assist Project Managers in carrying out key compo- at
   (916) 445-1176 nents of statewide projects; conduct research on issues
   and potential pro- Send your resume to: jects; and prepare
   correspondence, project proposals and reports. Com- puter expertise,
   good research, writing and analytical skills are required. Governor's
   Office for Innovation in Government Project Support: Assist IIG Project
   Managers and Project Analysts in 770 L Street, Suite 1240 carrying out
   projects; schedule events and make arrangements for meet- Sacramento,
   CA 95814 ings and conferences; prepare correspondence and respond to
   inquiries from departmental staff and the public regarding Innovation
   projects.
