http://safety1st.gsfc.nasa.gov/policy.html

   Safety 1st Homepage


   SESO
   Close Call Reporting
   Metrics
   Policy
   Safety Alerts
   Training and Resources
   Chemical Safety
   Contractor Safety
   Emergency Management Program
   Industrial Hygiene
   Occupational Health
   Radiation Safety
   Safety Resources and Tools
   Other Safety Programs
   Points of Contact

                            GSFC's Safety Policy

   GSFC’s most important core value is safety-safety of the public,
   astronauts and pilots, safety of our civil servant and contractor
   personnel and safety of our high value ground and space equipment and
   property. It is GSFC’s policy to provide a safe and healthy environment
   for all civil servants, contractor employees and visitors.

   Safe operations in all activities are a condition of any individual’s
   opportunity to work on and for the Goddard Space Flight Center. No
   activity is so important that it cannot be performed in a safe manner.
   Employees will advise management about inherently unsafe work without
   fear of retaliation or intimidation. Management will work with
   employees to ensure they have the proper training and equipment to
   perform work in a safe manner.

   To assure safety and mission success, every project, program, or
   operation, regardless of size, will employee risk management processes.
   All projects or similar activities will implement a Risk Management
   Plan as defined by NPG 7120.5A section 4.2. The Risk Management Plan
   will address all potential risks to people, property, the environment
   and mission assurance, in addition to budget and schedule risks.
   Management will only accept risk when expected benefits outweigh
   identified risks. Projects may only proceed after approval of the Risk
   Management Plan.

   All employees, supervisors and contractor will implement and follow the
   letter and intent of this policy. This policy is in accordance with
   NPD8700.1, NASA Policy for Safety and Mission Assurance and NPD
   8710.2B, NASA Safety and Health Program Policy. Safety performance and
   adherence to this policy shall be the premier element in all employee
   and contractor evaluations.

   Top of Page  |  Home
