http://www.skillsnetwork.gov/resources.cfm?ID=71

   REFRESH(200 sec): file://localhost/


   Welcome

   Meet
   the Skills
   Network

   Find Your State

   Home

   [logo2.jpg]

   Programs

   learning



   Information on programs intended to aid in workforce development and
   close the skills gap. This section encompasses information on a full
   range of government resources to develop 21st Century skills, improving
   organizational capacity and developing strategies for reaching
   workforce goals.


   Afterschool.gov

   One stop federal information for afterschool programs, funding and
   resources: transportation, snacks, mentors, recreation, computers, Web
   sites for kids and teens, etc. Sponsored by the Federal Support to
   Communities Initiative with GSA and the Reinventing Government Task
   Force led by Vice President Gore.

   Americans Communicating Electronically (ACE)

   With a vision for all citizens to be technologically literate in the
   21st century, the ACE program seeks to help Americans gain better
   access to information and resources through the Internet. Find
   information on this initiative as well links to information, resources,
   and funding.

   Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance

   The government-wide compendium of all 1,424 Federal programs, projects,
   services, and activities that provide assistance or benefits to the
   American public. Includes grants, loans, loan guarantees, services,
   information, scholarships and training.

   Child Care - Head Start Collaboration

   Partnerships between child care, Head Start, and other early education
   programs can offer excellent opportunities. These opportunities include
   providing full-day, full-year child care to families so parents can
   work or pursue education and training opportunities; make comprehensive
   services more widely available; and improve continuity of services and
   program quality by making optimal use of available resources.

   Community Development Work-Study Program

   Objectives: Under the Community Development Work-Study Program(CDWSP),
   HUD will make grants to institutions of higher education, either
   directly or through areawide planning organizations or States, for the
   purpose of providing assistance to economically disadvantaged and
   minority students who participate in community development work-study
   programs and are enrolled in full-time graduate programs in community
   and economic development, community planning or community management.
   The primary objectives of the program are to attract economically
   disadvantaged and minority students to careers in community and
   economic development, community planning, and community management, and
   to provide a cadre of well qualified professionals to plan, implement,
   and administer local community development programs.

   Directory of Federal Postsecondary Eductaion Resources

   Welcome to the web page of the Directory of Federal Postsecondary
   Education Programs. This directory lists 449 programs offered by 31
   U.S. departments and agencies for which postsecondary education
   institutions, students, faculty, or employees are eligible to apply or
   compete for available funding or services. The Office of Postsecondary
   Education (OPE) prepared this directory in response to requests from
   customers and constituents to make information on all federal
   postsecondary education programs available in one convenient place.

   disAbility Online

   U. S. Department of Labor's web site for guidance, tools, grants, and
   information on meeting workforce needs of people with disabilities and
   special needs.

   eBay Foundation

   We support organizations that provide tools, hope, and direction to
   those who seek new skills. They "teach the teachers", who in turn help
   people recognize the potential in themselves to improve their
   surroundings, their lives, and their communities

   Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities

   Learn about empowerment zones and enterprise communities; where they
   are and the programs designed for them.
   Invest in an EZ/EC Designated Community

   Livable Communities Website

   Here you will find information about the Administration's Livable
   Communities Initiative and the work of the White House Task Force on
   Livable Communities to coordinate federal agencies' efforts to assist
   communities to grow in ways that ensure a high quality of life and
   strong, sustainable economic growth. You will also find information on
   and links to specific programs, resources, guides, and tools offered by
   federal agencies to assist your community. By working together, we can
   build healthier, more livable communities for the 21st century.

   Resources and Assistance for Rural Workforce Development

   Links to resources for technical assistance, programs, and issue
   discussions in areas of adult services, child care, economic
   development, job creation, transportation and tribal issues.

   State and Local Gateway

   Highly organized and easily accessible state, county and local
   information on govenrment services, grants, best practices,
   partnerships and tools on a wide range of topics.

   Student Loan Repayment

   Handbook on the student loan repayment process.

   Tax Credits for Small Businesses

   Information from the Department of Labor on tax credits available to
   small businesses when they hire employees in targeted groups, such as
   welfare-to-work employees

   The Finance Project

   The Finance Project is a national initiative to create knowledge and
   share information that will lead to the improved well-being of
   children, families, and communities.

   The New Federalism

   A multi-year Urban Institute research project to analyze the transition
   of social programs from the federal government to the states. Focus
   includes health care, income security, job training, and social
   services.

   U. S. Department of Labor's WIA Training Modules

   Official training modules including WIA overview, governance,
   comprehensive services, customer satisfaction and measurement.

   Workforce Development Waivers

   The general waiver authority provides increased flexibility to States
   and local areas in implementing reforms to the workforce development
   system in exchange for State and local accountability for results,
   including improved performance.

   Text Only | Admin | Talk With Us | Privacy Statement | Home
