http://www.noaanews.noaa.gov/stories/s373.htm


         NOAA News || NOAA Home Page

                          NOAA ANNOUNCES FY 2001 BUDGET REQUEST

         NOAA FY 2001 Budget Request February 7, 2000 — The Commerce
   Department's National Oceanic and Atmospheric
   Administration has requested $2.9 billion in total budget authority for
   fiscal year 2001, a 20% increase, about $500 million over the current
   budget.

   In the year when NOAA is celebrating it's 30th anniversary, the
   requested increase will allow the agency to continue a mission critical
   to all Americans, to assess and predict the weather and changes to our
   earth's climate and to preserve and protect our coastal and living
   marine resources.

   "This budget request represents a strong commitment by the
   Administration to NOAA's invaluable role in contributing to the
   Nation's economic and environmental health. As the population of the
   United States continues to grow, it becomes more important for us to
   better manage and preserve our natural resources, understand and
   predict weather patterns, and comprehend the consequences of human
   influences on our environment," said D. James Baker, NOAA administrator
   and under secretary for oceans and atmosphere.

   NOAA's overall responsibilities are divided into two main areas—to
   assess and predict the environment, which includes short-term weather
   warnings and forecasts, providing seasonal climate forecasts as well as
   long-range climate assessments, and promoting safe navigation. The
   second primary responsibility is stewardship of U.S. coastal resources
   and protection of living marine resources. This includes working with
   states to develop plans to maintain and protect coastal ecosystems,
   supporting cooperative efforts to preserve endangered fish populations
   such as various salmon stocks in the Pacific northwest, and ensuring
   the health and preservation of a wide variety of marine mammals.

   NOAA plays a key role in many Presidential, Departmental, and
   interagency initiatives, including the Lands Legacy Initiative, the
   Natural Disaster Reduction Initiative, the South Florida Ecosystem
   Restoration Initiative, the Clean Water Initiative, building the
   capacity of the Nation's Minority Serving Institutions, the Climate
   Services and Observations Initiative, and the implementation of the
   America's Ocean Future Report.
   NOAA's products and services provide vital support to the domestic
   security and global competitiveness of the United States, and
   positively impact the lives of our citizens every day. A sample of
   these critical budget initiatives and programs are described below:

   $110 million in increases to support the programs that comprise the
   Natural Disaster Reduction Initiative, including increases for
   sustaining the modernization of the National Weather Service, research
   and new funding for satellites and data efforts.

   $265.8 million in increased support for the Lands Legacy Initiative,
   which addresses some of the most serious challenges facing U.S. coasts
   and oceans. The request will increase funding for the National Marine
   Sanctuaries and Estuarine Research Reserves, as well as mapping and
   monitoring of fragile coral reefs. The increase will also help address
   the effects of polluted run-off in coastal areas, enhance the recovery
   of threatened and endangered coastal salmon, and provide grants to
   states for coastal zone management plans.

   $28 million to support the Climate Observation and Services Initiative.
   Because it is critical to provide timely data and information about
   climate and extreme weather events, NOAA must act immediately to repair
   its deteriorating data and observation systems while simultaneously
   developing new capabilities.
   Click here to see short B-Roll of various climate events. This
   describes the North Atlantic Oscillation in its positive and negative
   stages. The second half of the video shows significant climate
   anomalies and episodic weather events during 1999. For your
   convenience, the videos are broken up into two parts.
   North Atlantic Oscillation || Climate Events of 1999

   $42 million in new funds, as part of the Lands Legacy Initiative, for
   the Pacific Coastal Salmon Recovery Fund. The money will be used to
   enhance the recovery of threatened and endangered coastal salmon
   through conservation measures funded jointly with tribes, States and
   local communities.

   $60 million increase to implement the Pacific Salmon Treaty

   $51.6 million to continue the efforts and momentum built at the
   National Ocean Conference held in Monterey, Calif., in 1998 to develop
   a coordinated, disciplined, long-term federal ocean policy. These funds
   will be used to support NOAA's efforts to promote safe and efficient
   navigation, promote the development of environmentally friendly and
   commercially viable aquaculture industries, increase fisheries stock
   assessments and observer programs to carry out the mandates in
   Magnuson-Stevens Act; to map and explore U.S. ocean waters with
   advanced underwater technology; to continue protection of threatened
   and endangered marine species, and activate and upgrade a NOAA vessel
   to support fishery research activities.

   $17 million to continue educational training relationship through a
   joint partnership with a consortium of minority serving institutions as
   part of a Commerce wide effort.

   NOAA's FY 2001 budget request is available on the Internet at
   http://www.publicaffairs.noaa.gov/budget2001
