http://www.ferc.gov/legal/ethics/ethics2.htm

   [skip.jpg] [btnrabou.jpg] Calendar of Events Page News & Reports Page
   Documents & Filing Page Legal Matters Page ALJ Page Case Information
   Page OGC Page DRS Page Complaints Page Enforcement Hotline Page Stats &
   Regs Page Informational Resources Page

                                 [ibtnd.jpg]

   Industries Icons
   Gas main page
   Hydro main page
   Electric main page
   Oil main page

                  The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
       Search Link Graphic E-Filing Link Graphic Records & Information
   Management System Link Graphic Commission Issuance Posting System Link
      Graphic Docket Sheets / Service Lists Link Graphic Site Map Link
                          Graphic Home Link Graphic


                             FERC Ethics Mandate

                             Industry Invite

     Every citizen must have complete confidence in the integrity of the
   Federal Energy Regulatory Commission; otherwise, our ability to act in
   the public interest will be compromised. Therefore, each FERC employee
   must demonstrate ethical conduct by complying with all relevant Federal
    statutes and rules, including those set forth in the Commission's and
       the Office of Government Ethics' regulations. Each employee is
    responsible for knowing the ethics rules and for behaving ethically.
                          Ignorance is no defense.

                          Major Ethics Requirements

                              A FERC employee:

   Information and Communications

     * may not disclose nonpublic information, including draft orders and
       internal discussions, to the public.
     * must follow the guidelines on Accessing and Handling Nonpublic
       Information.
     * may not disclose the nature or the time of any proposed action by
       the Commission to anyone outside the Commission.
     * must adhere to the rules on prohibited off-the-record
       communications, including but not limited to, (1) not discussing
       the merits of a contested proceeding with anyone outside the
       Commission and (2) following the procedures for placing prohibited
       and exempt communications in the record.
     * must adhere to the rules on communications between decisional and
       non-decisional staff members.
                                      Gifts
     * may not accept (1) a gift from any person, company, or organization
       that is regulated by, does business before or with, or whose
       interests are otherwise affected by FERC, or (2) a gift given
       because of the employee's position at the agency.
     * Such gifts include, but are not limited to, meals, transportation,
       lodging, and tickets, as well as free or reduced tuition or
       attendance at industry-sponsored events (seminars, conferences,
       receptions, etc.).
     * This rule applies to any donor, not just regulated companies. It
       also applies to site visits.
     * There are some exceptions. An employee may accept an unsolicited
       gift of $20 or less per source per occasion, subject to a $50
       annual limit. An employee may generally not accept any other gift
       absent a determination from the Designated Agency Ethics Official
       (DAEO) that another exception applies. Note: an employee may not
       make that determination on his or her own. Also, absent a generic
       decision by the DAEO, permission that one employee may attend an
       event does not apply to anyone else unless so determined by the
       DAEO.
     * may not accept reimbursement from an outside source for official
       travel without the DAEO's determination that such reimbursement is
       permitted under the law. That determination must be made before the
       scheduled travel; it may not be made retroactively.

   Financial Matters

     * may not work on any case in which he or she has a financial
       interest.
     * may not own stock in a company that has FERC-regulated interests.
     * must file timely required financial disclosure statements.

   Training

     * must attend required ethics training.


   Questions and other inquiries may be directed to the Designated Agency
   Ethics Official (DAEO) and the Office of General and Administrative Law
   (GAL) in the Office of the General Counsel. The DAEO is Susan J. Court,
   GAL Lead Counsel, Room 5K-13. GAL's telephone number is 202-208-0457,
   and its Internet site, where links to the relevant statutes and
   regulations may be found, is http://www.ferc.gov/legal/ogc/GAL.htm


   Privacy & Security Statement - Freedom of Information Act - Enforcement
                                   Hotline
           Disclaimers - Content Master - Web Master - Home - Top

                         Updated: September 27, 2000
