http://www.nifl.gov/nifl/about_nifl.html

   LINCSearch National Institute for Literacy Spacer Image
                                              Site Map
                                              Skip Navigational Links
                                              About NIFL

                                                                About NIFL

   Frequently Asked Questions

   News & Events

   Programs & Services

   Policy & Legislation

   Publications

   Join Mailing List

   Contact NIFL

   For Other Literacy Resources, Go To LINCS


   About NIFL

   The National Institute for Literacy (NIFL) was created by the National
   Literacy Act of 1991, when a bipartisan Congressional coalition acted
   on the literacy field's request for a federal office focused solely on
   literacy.

   The Institute serves as a focal point for public and private activities
   that support the development of high-quality regional, state, and
   national literacy services. NIFL's goal is to ensure that all Americans
   with literacy needs have access to services that can help them gain the
   basic skills necessary for success in the workplace, family, and
   community in the 21st century.

   Recent partnerships with the private sector include work with Verizon,
   the telecommunications firm, on projects to make information about
   literacy and literacy programs more widely available to the general
   public. The "Ask Verizon Reads" website encourages visitors to ask
   questions about adult and child literacy.  Answers are provided by the
   Institute, the American Library Association, Reading is Fundamental,
   and the National Center for Family Literacy.


   Ask Verizon Reads and Partners About Literacy
   Spacer Image
   Spacer Image
     Just type in your question and click "Ask!"
                             Ask!
   Powered by Ask JeevesSM
   Spacer Image
   Spacer Image

   NIFL is administered by the Secretaries of Education, Labor, and Health
   and Human Services, who make up the governing Interagency Group. A
   nonpartisan 10-member advisory board, appointed by the President and
   confirmed by the Senate, includes prominent individuals from a wide
   range of groups with a stake in literacy: academic and nonprofit
   institutions; business, industry, and labor; and private foundations.

   Most of NIFL's funds support programs and services designed to improve
   the quality of literacy programs nationwide. Primary activities
   include:

     * Bringing technology to the literacy field through LINCS, a
       state-of-the-art, Internet-based information retrieval and
       communication system. LINCS, the gateway to national and
       international literacy resources, provides access to a broad scope
       of literacy-related information from state and national policies to
       innovative classroom practices and allows all users to join
       electronic discussions on its 50 discussion lists.
     * Improving services to adults with learning disabilities. For six
       years NIFL funded the National Adult Literacy and Learning
       Disabilities Center. The Center produced Bridges to Practice, a
       comprehensive multi-volume guide on how to identify and better
       serve adults with learning disabilities. It also helped raise
       awareness about the link between learning disabilities and adult
       literacy. The effort is now focused on training trainers in Bridges
       to Practice, with the help of four Learning Disabilities Training
       and Dissemination Hubs, jointly funded by NIFL and the U.S.
       Department of Education.
     * Promoting adult literacy system reform through Equipped for the
       Future, a long-term initiative that developed content standards to
       ensure that every adult can gain the knowledge and skills needed to
       fulfill real-world responsibilities as workers, parents, and
       citizens. Equipped for the Future will ultimately lead to
       curriculum, assessment, and instruction innovations, as well as
       improved accountability.
     * Raising public awareness of the scope of adult literacy needs. Over
       the last three years, the Institute has created and carried out
       campaigns for the public, policymakers, and businesses stressing
       the essential role of literacy. The current phase is aimed at
       increasing youth participation in volunteer literacy programs in 15
       cities across the country.
     * Connecting those in need of adult, child and family literacy
       services with information about programs in their communities,
       including adult basic education, English as a second language, GED
       preparation, homework assistance, and after school programs,
       America's Literacy Directory is accessible at
       http://www.literacydirectory.org or by calling the national
       literacy hotline (1-800-228-8813).
     * Carrying out the National Reading Excellence Initiative (NREI), a
       national reading research dissemination project authorized by the
       Reading Excellence Act. The NREI's mission is to make
       scientifically-based reading research more accessible to educators,
       parents, policymakers, and other interested individuals. The NREI
       will be implemented through a diverse mix of public awareness,
       professional development, and program replication activities.

              NIFL HOME CONTACT NIFL ABOUT NIFL NATIONAL LINCS
