http://www.ecr.gov/roster.htm

   Roster of ECR Practitioners Roster of ECR Practitioners

   Back to Main Page About the Institute What is Environmental Conflict
   Resolution Services & Programs Morris K. Udall Foundation Training &
   Opportunities What's New - Upcoming Events Contact Us


   NATIONAL ROSTER OF
   ENVIRONMENTAL CONFLICT RESOLUTION AND
   CONSENSUS BUILDING PROFESSIONALS
   Roster Information
     Roster FAQ

     Roster Entry Criteria

     Learn More About the Application Process

     Register to Apply

     Registered Applicant/Practitioner
     Log In

     Registered Searcher
     Log In and Referral Info

     Choosing an Appropriate Neutral

     Search Results FAQ

     Transportation Roster
   [sm_footer.gif]
   cleardot.gif (35 bytes) cleardot.gif (35 bytes)
   cleardot.gif (35 bytes)

   Current Status

   The initial roster was constituted in February 2000. The Institute is
   continuing nationwide recruitment of practitioners. The Institute uses
   the roster as a resource when referring ECR professionals to those
   searching for qualified neutrals and will subcontract when appropriate
   with ECR professionals on the roster. The roster referral system is
   enhanced through cooperation with existing programs and networks of
   environmental dispute-resolution and consensus-building practitioners
   familiar with the issues in their respective states and regions.
   The roster search is accessible to anyone when contemplating the use of
   consensus building and dispute resolution services where environmental,
   natural resources or public lands issues and a federal party or
   interest are involved. For information and referral to practitioners in
   environmental cases/controversies involving federal agencies, contact
   the Institute. The Environmental Protection Agency is the first federal
   agency to have direct, electronic access to the roster. Next, some
   other federal agencies will have direct access. Eventually the roster
   will be available to the public on the web.

   Federal agencies are not required to select from the roster.
   Professionals not on the roster remain fully eligible to serve as ECR
   practitioners in disputes involving federal agencies. Finally, being
   listed on the roster does not guarantee additional work for the
   practitioner.

   Background
   In 1998, Congress created the U.S. Institute for Environmental Conflict
   Resolution to assist in the resolution of environmental, public lands
   and natural resource disputes. The enacting legislation directs the
   Institute to work with practitioners located near the conflict whenever
   practical.

   The goal of this roster is to improve access to qualified environmental
   dispute resolution and consensus building professionals for the
   Institute and others sponsoring or engaging in environmental conflict
   resolution (ECR) processes. The roster will expedite the identification
   of appropriate professionals, shorten the time needed to complete
   contracting documents, and help refer parties to practitioners.

   The roster has been developed because the use of Alternative Dispute
   Resolution (ADR) in the environmental and public policy arena has grown
   markedly over the last two decades. In this context, ADR processes now
   include techniques ranging from conflict prevention such as consensus
   building and facilitation of public policy dialogues to specific
   dispute resolution through assisted negotiations, and mediation. The
   number of environmental conflict resolution (ECR) practitioners has
   grown as the field has gained prominence and professionals from a
   variety of disciplines have become attracted to its advantages and
   opportunities.

   An essential step in any dispute resolution process occurs when parties
   select a practitioner. Parties making the selection rightfully expect
   that the practitioner will be qualified to provide the service sought
   and has experience and style matched well to the nature of the issues
   and to the parties. Thus, the roster is designed to advance the
   interests of the growing field of dispute resolution, reflect the
   evolving standards of best practice, and help direct the expenditure of
   public funds for quality services.

   The roster was developed with the support of the Environmental
   Protection Agency (EPA). Although the EPA operates a national service
   contract that manages major cases through a cadre of experienced
   providers, it also wished to access practitioners for smaller, more
   localized disputes. Based on a 1997 study concerning the potential of a
   national roster of qualified practitioners, EPA decided to support the
   development of such a roster through the Institute.

   To develop the project, the EPA and the Institute brought together a
   work group consisting of EPA dispute resolution professionals and
   contracting officers, state dispute resolution officials, private
   dispute resolution practitioners and academics. Informed in part by
   ideas from this group, the EPA and the Institute proposed roster entry
   qualifications, which were published in the Federal Register in
   November 1998.

   Before the entry criteria were finalized, the comments received in
   response to the Federal Register notice were reviewed. Outreach
   continued through meetings and newsletter articles, as well as
   individual communications to professional associations, state and
   federal government agencies, dispute resolution firms, individual
   practitioners, professional associations of attorneys, environmental
   and citizen groups.

   Criteria for Listing
   Within the field of ADR there exist several rosters of practitioners.
   To limit redundancy, the Institute's roster consists of those
   practitioners with experience on environmental issues in any of the
   following roles: facilitator, mediator, consensus builder, dispute
   systems designer, neutral evaluator, settlement judge, or conflict
   assessor. Professionals with experience in these areas must meet the
   entry criteria for being listed on the Institute's roster. To review
   the roster entry criteria, click here.

   Application Information
   The application process is open and continuous. The Institute is
   continuing nationwide recruitment of practitioners who meet the roster
   entry criteria.
   To apply to the roster, you must first review the entry criteria and
   then register your username and password. Once you have registered,
   review the glossary definitions and application instructions carefully.
   Applications may be completed on-line and then submitted
   electronically. Hard copy applications may also be requested from the
   Institute. However, use of the electronic application is strongly
   encouraged. If you submit your application electronically you will
   receive immediate notification of the Institute's receipt of your
   application. All applicants will subsequently be notified of the status
   of their application.
   If you would like more information about the National Roster of
   Environmental Dispute Resolution and Consensus Building Professionals,
   contact:

     Joan C. Calcagno, Roster Manager
     US Institute for Environmental Conflict Resolution
     110 S. Church Ave., Suite 3350
     Tucson, AZ 85701
     tel: 520-670-5299
     fax: 520-670-5530
     roster@ecr.gov

   Transportation Roster

   The Institute manages a Transportation Roster and referral system.
   Members of the Transportation Roster are members of the National Roster
   of Environmental Dispute Resolution and Consensus Building
   Professionals who have met additional entry criteria. These include
   experience as neutrals in transportation cases and/or as employees of
   or consultants to relevant agencies. The first round of applications
   and training workshops for Transportation Roster membership has been
   completed. Whether and when another round of Transportation Roster
   applications and training workshops will take place has not yet been
   determined.
   For more information about the Transportation Roster, click here.

        | Main Page | About the Institute | What is Environmental Conflict
        Resolution? | Services & Programs |
        | Morris K. Udall Foundation | Training & Opportunities | What's
        New/Upcoming Events | Contact Us |

   | Privacy Statement |

   US Institute for Environmental Conflict Resolution
   Suite 3350, 110 S. Church Ave. • Tucson, AZ 85701 • Tel. (520) 670-5299
   Fax (520) 670-5530

   Copyright © 1999 US Institute for Environmental Conflict Resolution
