http://policy.house.gov/documents/statements/missiledefense.htm

            The House Policy Committee Christopher Cox, Chairman

                              Policy Statement
                                June 14, 2001

                  Printer-friendly version in Adobe Acrobat

        Missile Defense and President Bush's New Strategic Framework

       The United States is determined to proceed with Missile Defense.
   Two years ago, an overwhelming bipartisan majority in Congress and a
   Democratic president formally declared that it is the national policy
   of the United States to deploy an effective national missile defense as
   soon as technologically feasible. This national policy is enunciated in
   the National Missile Defense Act of 1999, and constitutes the law of
   the land today. As President Bush recently stated, "America must build
   effective missile defenses, based on the best available options, at the
   earliest possible date. Our missile defense must be designed to protect
   all 50 states-and our friends and allies and deployed forces
   overseas-from missile attacks by rogue nations, or accidental
   launches."

       "A threat…here and now." Today the gravity and immediacy of the
   threat posed by missile proliferation can no longer be denied. It has
   been 10 years since Saddam Hussein dramatically illustrated the threat
   of ballistic missiles to U.S. forces in Saudi Arabia and civilian
   targets in Israel by launching Scud attacks during the Gulf War. It has
   been three years since the bipartisan Rumsfeld Commission issued its
   unanimous warning that future ballistic missile threats to the United
   States could emerge with "little or no warning." Just months after the
   Rumsfeld Commission report, North Korea launched a three-stage missile
   over Japan, and Iran launched its Shahab 3 ballistic missile. It has
   been over a year since the Clinton Administration's Director of Central
   Intelligence bluntly told Congress, "The missile threat to the United
   States … is steadily emerging. The threat to U.S. interests and forces
   overseas is here and now" (emphasis added).

       In February 2001, the Director of Central Intelligence updated his
   earlier warning. In his annual testimony to Congress on Worldwide
   Threats to the United States, he stated that "the missile and [weapons
   of mass destruction] proliferation problem continues to change in ways
   that make it harder to monitor and control, increasing the risk of
   substantial surprise" (emphasis added).

       Today, long-range and theater missiles threaten U.S. forces and our
   allies around the world, yet we have no defense. Over 100,000 U.S.
   troops in South Korea and Japan live under the threat of ballistic
   missile attack. Our forward-based air and naval forces in Northeast
   Asia, the Mediterranean, and the Persian Gulf are likewise all
   vulnerable to missile attack. Key U.S. friends and allies including
   Israel, South Korea, Japan, and Taiwan all face known ballistic missile
   threats and lack any effective defense.

       Moreover, as the Rumsfeld Commission predicted, the long-range
   missile threat to the United States itself has now arrived. Two years
   ago, North Korea tested a Taepo Dong-1 which can be configured as an
   ICBM to deliver nuclear-sized payloads to the United States. On June 4,
   2001, North Korea threatened to resume both missile testing and its
   nuclear program. Iran, according to the CIA's most recent testimony,
   could test an ICBM capable of delivering a nuclear, chemical, or
   biological payload to the United States "in the next few years." The
   Director of Central Intelligence also testified that Saddam Hussein may
   acquire an ICBM capability in the current decade.

       America and our allies are vulnerable not only to the launch of a
   ballistic missile at our territory or our troops, but also to the
   threat of such a launch. Unless we possess an adequate missile defense,
   the United States will be increasingly vulnerable to blackmail by both
   rogue states and terrorists.

       A Safer Future. Fortunately, the means to counter these threats
   will soon be within reach. A series of missile defense tests during the
   preceding two years has resulted in the successful interception of an
   enemy missile by a ground-based system, as well as the development of
   even more promising boost-phase or ascent-phase defenses.

       Critics have lodged a variety of conflicting and inconsistent
   complaints intended to prevent development of a defense against
   ballistic missiles. None of these arguments is persuasive, however, and
   together they virtually cancel one another out. The following is a
   compendium of the fallacies arrayed against a missile defense:
     * Fallacy #1: Test failures prove that missile defense doesn't work.
       To the contrary, much has been learned from the test successes,
       partial successes, and failures to date. Not only are imperfect
       tests of prototype systems inevitable in cutting-edge programs, but
       also many of the "failures" (that is, unsuccessful interceptions)
       have proven the efficacy of component technologies. As Defense
       Secretary Rumsfeld explained to the North Atlantic Assembly on June
       7, 2001: "The Corona satellite program, which produced the first
       overhead reconnaissance satellites, had 11 straight test failures.
       Where would we be today if President Eisenhower had cancelled it?
       Where would we be if the Wright brothers had quit after their first
       20 test failures? Answer: without airplanes. Testing is how we
       learn. Testing leads to knowledge." Secretary Rumsfeld went on to
       state: "We will not make decisions on systems architecture until
       our technologies have been tested, and it is likely they will
       evolve over time."
     * Fallacy #2: Any defense could be overwhelmed by deception and other
       countermeasures. Countermeasures might well be undertaken by
       Russia, were missile defense aimed at it, but the goal of missile
       defense is not to defend against massive missile attacks from
       Russia. Rather, national missile defense is intended to counter
       limited threats from terrorists and rogue nations-"against handfuls
       of missiles, not hundreds," as Secretary Rumsfeld told our NATO
       allies. Moreover, as the House Armed Services Committee reported in
       September 2000, the development of countermeasures entails
       "significant complexities for developing countries." And even if
       Russia, the PRC, or other more sophisticated nations were to
       illicitly transfer the technology needed for countermeasures,
       developments in the U.S. already underway may well be adequate to
       address them. Countermeasures, for example, are much more difficult
       to deploy against ascent-phase missile defenses, and that is one of
       the architectures being developed. Over a year ago, Lt. Gen. John
       Costello, the head of the Army's Space and Missile Defense Command,
       stated that "I am … confident we have the technology to make the
       system adaptable to countermeasures." According to the House Armed
       Services Committee, in their September 2000 report, the Department
       of Defense "has long been aware of the countermeasures issue and is
       working on ensuring the effectiveness of a national missile defense
       system against some two dozen types of countermeasures."
     * Fallacy #3: A National Missile Defense would "decouple" American
       security from that of our European and Asian allies. "Decoupling"
       America from our allies is precisely the reason that hostile states
       are currently seeking the ability to threaten our homeland.
       Deterring America from protecting our friends and allies abroad
       would achieve a true "decoupling" of our common security. The
       answer to these concerns, as the Bush Administration has
       recognized, is not to prolong common vulnerability but to achieve
       common security by extending missile defense to our friends and
       allies.
     * Fallacy #4: Missile defense would not combat other forms of attack
       on the United States; therefore, it should not be undertaken. That
       other forms of terrorism will remain viable if we deploy an
       effective missile defense is hardly a reason to remain vulnerable
       to missile attack. Each threat to U.S. citizens should be met with
       an adequate defense. Who would assert that because our existing
       Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps are of limited use in
       thwarting a missile attack, we should forego them? Our armed
       services are justified by their usefulness against other existing
       threats. The Bush Administration and Congress are pursuing
       multifaceted defenses against the whole array of existing and
       emerging threats to our country-and missile defense is an
       indispensable part of that mix.

       Alternatives to the MAD Doctrine of the Cold War. At the height of
   the Cold War, in 1972, the United States and Brezhnev's USSR negotiated
   the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty, which prohibited missile defense in
   reliance on a doctrine called "Mutual Assured Destruction." The MAD
   doctrine held that if both Russia and the Soviet Union were
   defenseless, then the threat of certain and massive retaliation would
   deter a first strike by either side. Whatever might have been said for
   this theory at the time, it requires a single nuclear threat posed by a
   rational nation in order to work. That has not described the world for
   at least a decade. The bipolar world of America vs. the Soviet Union
   has long since given way to one characterized by emerging threats from
   many rogue states of questionable rationality.

       Allowing not one but many potentially hostile regimes to gain a
   veto over America's ability to protect its troops, interests, and
   friends is itself "mad." In May 2001 President Bush highlighted the ABM
   Treaty's obsolescence in today's multipolar world: "We need a new
   framework that allows us to build missile defenses to counter the
   different threats of today's world. To do so, we must move beyond the
   constraints of the 30-year-old ABM Treaty. This treaty does not
   recognize the present or point us to the future. It enshrines the
   past."

       Some critics have erroneously claimed that effective missile
   defense would "abrogate" the ABM Treaty. That is false; the United
   States would be acting entirely in conformity with the express
   provisions of the ABM Treaty were it to proceed with missile defense
   after giving six month's advance notice under Article XV of the Treaty.
   Article XV expressly provides that "Each Party shall, in exercising its
   national sovereignty, have the right to withdraw from this Treaty if it
   decides that extraordinary events related to the subject matter of this
   Treaty have jeopardized its supreme interests." Indeed, many eminent
   authorities-including former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger, who
   negotiated the ABM Treaty-have opined that the Treaty became invalid as
   a matter of international law upon the dissolution of the Soviet Union
   (the only other party to the Treaty) in 1991.

       A further argument has been made that amending or ending the ABM
   Treaty would remove the "cornerstone of global stability" and kindle an
   arms race. This stands reality on its head, for the years since 1972
   (the life of the ABM Treaty) have witnessed a buildup of nuclear
   weaponry and a dispersal of missiles and instruments of mass
   destruction unprecedented in the history of the world. Not only has the
   ABM Treaty failed to prevent the proliferation of missiles and nuclear
   weapons, but there is solid evidence that the lack of effective
   defenses against missile threats has provided a powerful motivation for
   nations to acquire their own offensive missile capacity. As Secretary
   Rumsfeld told the North Atlantic Assembly on June 7, "Our lack of
   defenses against ballistic missiles creates incentives for missile
   proliferation" (emphasis added). An effective missile defense, as
   Secretary Rumsfeld further stated, will "dissuade countries from
   pursuing dangerous capabilities in the first place."

              A New Strategic Framework: Policy Recommendations

       American policy should be based upon a reasoned approach to the
   modern world, not archaic doctrine. The following three approaches
   should guide America's implementation of the National Missile Defense
   Act of 1999:
     * Move Beyond 1972 and the Outdated ABM Treaty. Because the 1972 ABM
       Treaty no longer has relevance to the threats facing America in the
       21st century, the United States should seek a new understanding
       with the Russian Federation that will permit our armed services to
       defend our people, territory, and soldiers. Failing this, the
       United States should proceed with the deployment of an effective
       missile defense, consistent with Article XV of the ABM Treaty.
     * Provide American Leadership for the Common Security of Our Allies.
       President Bush has already commenced genuine consultation with
       Russia, China, and our Asian and European allies and friends. These
       consultations reflect the fact that America's New Strategic
       Framework has moved beyond merely national missile defense to
       embrace an effective common defense for America, our forces
       overseas, and our friends and allies abroad. Increasingly, the
       nations of the world are appreciating that missile defense
       threatens no legitimate interest of any nation.
     * Promote Defense As the Best Deterrence. President Bush recently
       stated: "We need new concepts of deterrence that rely on both
       offensive and defensive forces…. Defenses can strengthen
       deterrence." Reliance on defensive measures not only strengthens
       the existing regimes of arms control and international cooperation,
       but also adapts U.S. policy to the realities of a world that has
       changed beyond recognition since 1972.

               A Call for Bipartisanship in Defending America

       Although Republicans have led the effort for missile defense, in
   the past this has been a bipartisan issue. In the wake of the Iraqi
   missile attacks during the Gulf War, President George H. W. Bush worked
   with bipartisan majorities of the then-Democratic Congress to achieve
   the Missile Defense Act of 1991, which made it a national goal to
   "deploy an anti-ballistic missile system … that is capable of providing
   a highly effective defense of the United States against limited attacks
   of ballistic missiles." The National Missile Defense Act of 1999 was
   enacted by large, bipartisan majorities in Congress and signed into law
   by President Clinton. Over the past decade, Congresses and Presidents
   of both parties have come together to promote missile defense policies
   that will implement one of the bedrock commands of the Constitution:
   "to provide for the common defense." Unhappily, the new Democratic
   majority in the Senate appears to be attempting to walk away from this
   historic bipartisan consensus, and to keep the American people trapped
   in the logic of MAD and hostage to the "arms control" of Iraq's Saddam
   Hussein and North Korea's Kim Jong-Il. Now, more than ever, Republican
   leadership is necessary to carry out the national policy of missile
   defense upon which America's security, and that of all of our allies
   and friends, so depends.
