http://www.mi.nmfs.gov/history.html

   [02blue.jpg] [noaabal2.jpg]

   History
   [origlab.jpg]


          The Milford Laboratory was established in 1931 when a full-time
   scientist, Dr. Victor Loosanoff,  was assigned to study the biological
   problems of Connecticut's oyster industry. Since that time, laboratory
   scientists have  contributed to the understanding of basic shellfish
   biology and reproduction. [oldvictorweb.jpg] Methods were developed for
   spawning bivalve molluscs nearly year-round and for rearing all life
   stages (embryonic, larval, and adult).


                                      [oldlab2web.jpg]
   Mixtures of algae suitable to support different life stages were
   developed and grown in sufficient quantity to support the production of
   shellfish.  Strains of oysters with desirable characteristics, such as
   fast growth, were developed by geneticists. Techniques developed at
   Milford Laboratory are used worldwide by the aquaculture industry.
   Laboratory scientists worked closely with the shellfish industry to
   help solve problems and increase production.  Dr. Loosanoff served as
   Laboratory Director through the 1960s. In the 1970s,  researchers at
   Milford investigated new species for culture such as bay scallops,
   surfclams, and hard clams.


   [oldfieldweb.jpg]

     [olddiversweb.jpg]       With the establishment of NOAA during the
   1970's,  research was broadened to reflect the fisheries management
   priorities of NMFS. Studies emphasized the interactions of biological
   processes of various marine species with manmade stresses and natural
   variables. Research on the effects of heavy metals on physiological,
   biochemical, genetic, and immunologic functions of key marine organisms
   was undertaken. Animals were collected from polluted and relatively
   clean sites during cruises along the Atlantic Coast and during day
   trips in Long Island Sound. Controlled laboratory exposures of marine
   animals to heavy metals and certain organic compounds were used to
   determine which pollutants were causing specific effects.

                               Back to index!

                                [02blue.jpg]
