http://www.nmid.uscourts.gov/law_library.html

                    Law Library Holdings        Policy
                  Law Library Policy (as of March 1, 2000)
   Law Library Judge Munson has opened his Chambers law library to members
   of the Bar and the public. The law library, located on the Second Floor
   of the Horiguchi Building, is open every business day from 8:00 a.m. to
   4:30 p.m. to members of the public who are conducting legitimate legal
                                  research.
   Access to the law library is gained by first signing in with the Court
    Security Officer on duty and then pressing the button to the left of
   the door to the Chambers side of the court facilities. Books and other
   resource materials may not be removed from the law library and there is
      no procedure for allowing photocopying by members of the public.
   Members of the Bar may obtain a permanent key from the Clerk of Court,
    allowing access to the law library 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
   Visiting attorneys may also obtain a key for the duration of their stay
   on Saipan. Attorney staff may not obtain a key. Attorneys may also set
    up photocopying charge accounts. Please enquire at the Office of the
   Clerk of Court as to the current key charge for attorneys. Faye Crozat,
    Judge Munsons secretary, should be contacted to begin a photocopying
          charge account and access number to the copying machine.
    The law library is not a public law library. Continued access to the
     Chambers law library by members of the Bar and the public is at the
                      sole discretion of Judge Munson.
                 Law Library Holdings (as of March 1, 2000)
   Following is a listing of materials currently available in the Chambers
    Law Library. This list is not intended to be exhaustive, although it
    does list almost all of the librarys holdings. If you have a question
       about a specific holding, please contact one of the law clerks.
                              Federal Materials
                              Federal Reporters
                            Supreme Court Reports
                 U.S. Supreme Court Reports Lawyers Edition
               U.S. Supreme Court Reports Lawyers Edition 2nd
                              Federal Reporter
                            Federal Reporter 2nd
                            Federal Reporter 3rd
                             Federal Supplement
                           Federal Supplement 2nd
                           Federal Rules Decisions
                             Bankruptcy Reporter
                      Federal Statutes and Regulations
                              US Code Annotated
                               US Code Service
             Code of Federal Regulations (current and past year)
                         Federal Research Materials
                            Supreme Court Digest
                         Moores Federal Practice 3rd
                              Bankruptcy Digest
                                Federal Forms
                      Federal Practice Forms (Benders)
                     Federal Practice Digest 4th (Wests)
                       Federal Practice Manual (Wests)
           Treatise of Constitutional Law: Substance and Procedure
                         American Constitutional Law
                     Modern Constitutional Law (Antieu)
                       Federal Administrative Practice
               Constitutional Law Deskbook: Individual Rights
                            Summary Judgment Law
                    Americans With Disabilities treatise
                      Fair Labor Standards Act treatise
         Handbook for Trustees and Debtors in Possession (Colliers)
             Employment Discrimination Law treatise (Lindemann)
                    Employment Discrimination Law (West)
               Federal Appellate Practice Guide, Ninth Circuit
                 Federal Civil Judicial Procedure and Rules
                       Federal Criminal Code and Rules
                      Federal Civil Rights Act (Smolla)
                         Federal Evidence (Mueller)
                  Federal Procedural Forms, Lawyers Edition
                          Handling Criminal Appeals
                     Manual on Employment Discrimination
                          Motions in Federal Court
           Search and Seizure: A treatise on the Fourth Amendment
                           Testimonial Privileges
                            Benedict on Admiralty
              Civil Actions Against State and Local Governments
     Civil Actions Against the United States, Its Agencies, and Officers
                 Civil Rights and Civil Liberties Litigation
              Constitutional Limitations on Criminal Procedure
                           Federal Criminal Trials
                   Federal Jury Practice and Instructions
                   Federal Practice and Procedure (Wright)
                   Federal Procedure Rules: Ninth Circuit
                    Federal Sentencing Guidelines Manual
                       Federal Trial Handbook (Hunter)
                   Immigration Law and Procedure (Benders)
                            Internal Revenue Code
                      Modern Federal Jury Instructions
                      Law of United States Territories
               U.S. Code Congressional and Administrative News
                           U.S. Statutes at Large
                     Ninth Circuit Criminal Law Reporter
                                 ALR Federal
                            Ninth Circuit Update
                           Employment Guide (BNA)
       The Developing Labor Law: The Boards, The Courts, and the NLRA
                     Occupational Safety and Health Act
                       Legal Guide to Human Resources
                           Employment Law Deskbook
             Regional and State Reporters and Related Resources
                              Pacific Reporter
                            Pacific Reporter 2nd
                           North Eastern Reporter
                         North Eastern Reporter 2nd
                              Atlantic Reporter
                            Atlantic Reporter 2nd
                             California Reporter
                           California Reporter 2nd
                          California Code Annotated
                          Summary of California Law
                            California Digest 2nd
                             Pacific Digest 2nd
                  General Treatises and Research Materials
                                   ALR 3rd
                                   ALR 4th
                                   ALR 5th
                         American Jurisprudence 2nd
                              Words and Phrases
   Restatements of the Law (Torts, Contracts, Agency, Real Property, etc.)
                        Law of Municipal Corporations
                            Appleman on Insurance
                   The New Wigmore: A Treatise on Evidence
                           Uniform Laws Annotated
                      Uniform Commercial Code Annotated
                    Manual of Professional Responsibility
                         Administrative Law (Davis)
                             Corbin on Contracts
                           Williston on Contracts
                          Torts (Prosser & Keeton)
                     Statutes and Statutory Construction
                          McCormick on Evidence 4th
                            Securities Regulation
                              Environmental Law
                         American Law of Zoning 3rd
                             Modern Legal Ethics
                                  Citators
                    For all Reporters in the law library
                          Law Reviews and Journals
                                   Harvard
                                    Yale
                                  Stanford
                                  Michigan
                 Harvard Civil Rights/Civil Liberties Review
                                 Notre Dame
                                  San Diego
                                   Chicago
            Georgetown - Annual Criminal Law and Procedure Volume
                                   Fordham
                                John Marshall
            U.S. District Court for the Northern Mariana Islands
                   2nd Floor, Horiguchi Building, Garapan
                  P.O. Box 500687,  Saipan, MP  96950  USA
               Ph. +1 (670) 236-2902    Fax +1 (670) 236-2910
                         Send comments to webmaster.
