http://snowmass.lbl.gov/news.html

   Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory

                                        SNOWMASS 2001

                                                     Working Group T2

   [logosm.gif]

                   T2: Working Group on Magnet Technology:
         Permanent Magnets, Superconducting Magnets, Power Supplies
                                    NEWS



                             Working Group Sessions

    We have generated a very preliminary schedule framework that is
   intended to get the organizational activities off the ground. Several
   talks and speakers have been proposed and in most cases they dont even
   know it yet! We are soliciting more suggestions for speakers and
   topics. The schedule is very flexible at the moment and we have
   provided only an outline of the overall structure. Your input is
   required.

                                General Schedule

   Working Group Sessions 1 4 (July, 1 July, 6)
     * Talks on general topics, program reports, etc., get organized.
     * Suggested attendance: Organizers, sub-group leaders, anyone else
       interested.

    Working Group Sessions 5 9 (July, 9 July, 14)
     * Sub-Group reports and joint sessions.
     * Suggested attendance: Everyone, this is where the work gets done.
       Possibly begin sub-group reports at the end of the week.

    Working Group Sessions 10 12 (July, 16 July, 18)
     * Sub-group reports and write-ups.
     * Suggested attendance: Organizers, sub-group leaders unless they
       have already submitted their reports, plus anyone wanting to
       participate in the report organization and preparation.

   The following is a list of suggested working group session and
   sub-group topics.

    General Sessions
     * Report on FNAL VLHC Design Study
     * Superconducing Magnet R&D
     * Permanent Magnet R&D

   Sub-Groups

     Magnets for the VLHC
     * High Field
     * Intermediate Field
     * General issues and comparison of options
     * AP Requirements?

      Magnets for the Muon Collider

     High Field Magnets
     * Ultimate limits
     * Associated issues (SR loading, cryo, vacuum (beam screens), etc.)
     * Need AP input on bore size and field requirements. How can feedback
       reduce FQ requirements?

     Detector Magnets

     Magnetic Measurements

     High Gradient Quads
     * Joint with IR design, minimizing heat load. Look at trade-offs

     Cost Optimization (Integrated magnet/acc design)
     * Cost driver analysis. New paradigms.

     Superferric Magnets

     Medium field options to FNAL design study
     * Boosting J[Cu ], quench protection. Overlap with Cost optimization
       sub-group.
     * Should follow after issues are identified.

   Information for Speakers

   Invited speakers are requested to provide a brief written report on the
   subject they cover in electronic form (Word for Windows, PowerPoint)
   for the purpose of generating this report. Overheads and video
   projectors are planned for all meeting rooms. We request that all talks
   be presented electronically so that they can be made available on the
   web.

   Session Chairs will be responsible for keeping the timing of their
   session, to provide discussion times, and to specify important subjects
   for discussions. Session chairs are requested to provide a 1 to 2 page
   written summary of their session that will be used for compiling the
   Working Group report.

   Report summaries should be furnished to the sub-group chairmen
   electronically via web or e-mail or, portable media such as Zip or
   floppy disks.


   Written Report

   A report of the Working Group should be produced at Snowmass (15 25
   pages), together with a 1 to 1.5 page executive summary. Since these
   reports may be useful to the HEPAP long-range planning subpanel, which
   has a very tight schedule, the report and the executive summary need to
   be completed in rough draft form, by the end of the workshop. This will
   require devoting some of the time at Snowmass, perhaps in the last
   week, to writing up the report and summary.


   Contributed Papers

   Complete reports from individual working groups as well as contributed
   papers will be collected in proceedings of the conference.

   Charge

         Schedule

                 News

                     Contacts

                             Reports
