http://muller.lbl.gov/teaching/Physics10/chapters/3-The_terrorist_attack.htm

                      Analysis of the Terrorist Attack

                          (updated Sept 16 at 6 pm)
                         © 2001, Richard A. Muller


   Last Tuesday, terrorists attacked the World Trade Center in New York,
   and the Pentagon in Washington D.C.  In the spirit of this course, I'm
   going to describe what happened with emphasis on understanding the
   relevant physics.  This should give you a somewhat deeper appreciation
   of the problems involved in countering terrorism, and in finding the
   solutions.


Choice of flight


   The terrorists chose to use the fuel of the airplane as their weapon.
   They chose transcontinental flights since these flights would have full
   fuel tanks.  The airplanes probably contained 60 tons of fuel each,
   maybe more.  Airplane fuel contains 10x the energy, gram per gram, as
   TNT.  Thus the energy was equivalent to about 600 tons of TNT, more
   than half a kiloton.  However, fuel doesn't explode unless it is well
   mixed with air.  We'll describe what happened in the impact in a later
   paragraph.


   The terrorists chose early-morning flights.  This was possibly because,
   in the U.S., such flights have the best on-time records.  The
   terrorists wanted to have several attacks take place almost
   simultaneously.  Their scheme would work only if the flights left on
   time.


Terrorists board the airplanes


   The planned attack took advantage of basic knowledge of airport
   security.  But this was not a deep knowledge; it was known to almost
   any technically-competent person.


   When you board an airplane, your carry-on luggage is passed through an
   x-ray machine.  It can spot many objects from their shapes, although
   they don't have good enough resolution to see an object which is
   camouflaged.  I suspect no camouflage was used, because if caught, that
   would suggest that a terrorist attack was underway, and might alert the
   security people.  Rather than use camouflage, the terrorists probably
   took advantage of the fact that security regulations allowed the
   passenger to carry on knives if the blade was less than 4 inches in
   length.  A passenger reported on an airline telephone (or possibly on a
   cell phone) that a terrorist was using a package knife.  This is a
   knife with a short blade that can be retracted.  It is almost as sharp
   as a razor blade.


   In the United States, passengers are not x-rayed.  They walk through a
   metal detector that responds to large metal objects and other
   conductors.  Since humans are somewhat conductive, the detector can't
   be too sensitive.  There are some weapons available that are not
   conductive and would pass through such a detector.  The most obvious is
   a knife made out of ceramic material.  There are also guns available
   that contain very little metal; they are mostly ceramic.


   If there is some suspicion (e.g. the x-ray operator sees something
   unfamiliar in the x-ray picture of the computer) then they may send you
   to the sniffer.  They take a cotton-tipped swab and rub it on our
   computer or your luggage.  It is placed in a box that has a chemical
   system for recognizing the most common explosives.  If you have built a
   bomb, then the vapors from explosive will probably be found on your
   luggage.


   The terrorists, knowing all this, planned an attack that would not
   require using explosives, or a detectable weapon.


                    The terrorists take over the airplane


   After the flights took off, the terrorists took control of the
   airplanes.  We don't have the information to know exactly how they did
   this, so we can only guess.  The terrorists undoubtedly planned to take
   advantage of the U.S. policy that the airline pilots are expected to
   cooperate with hijackers.  This policy was based on the past success of
   such cooperation.  The best way to maximize the safety of the
   passengers, in the past, was to cooperate.  Do what the terrorists say,
   and let the experts on the ground negotiate with them.  The result is
   that the terrorists could count on cooperation.


   It is not clear that they got such cooperation.  Some terrorist reports
   suggested that some of the crew had been attacked with knives.  It
   could be that the terrorists did not want the pilots to send the
   "secret code" (the code is not so secret) that alerts the ground that
   they are being hijacked.  If that is the case, then the terrorists
   would go into the cockpit and kill the pilots with their knives.


   In most airplanes they could do this by walking in.  If you have flown
   recently, you know that the door to the cockpit is usually left open.
   Why not?  If terrorists take over the airplane, the pilots are supposed
   to cooperate anyway.


   In the airplane, the terrorists had sufficient training to fly the
   planes.  It does not take much training to do this.  Most airplane
   training consists of learning how to land the plane, how to take off,
   how to make sure nothing goes wrong, and what to do if something does
   go wrong.  Navigation and flying a plane level is relatively simple.
   (You already knew this if you watched any of the airplane disaster
   movies.  Keeping an airplane in relatively level flight, even aiming it
   at an airport runway, is not difficult.  Landing is.)


Navigation


   Navigation is likewise relatively easy, at least for the World Trade
   Center.  Even to fly a small airplane, you must learn how to use the
   navigation equipment.  It is also possible that the terrorists used
   simple GPS systems in the cockpit.  These can be purchased for less
   than $200.  They will tell you where you are, how fast you are going,
   what direction you are traveling, and the distance to your goal (the
   WTC towers, keyed in ahead of time).


   Finally, the terrorists could rely on visual flying.  I suspect that
   they did this, after discovering that they were confused by the
   navigation systems.  Even GPS sounds simpler than it is.  As you
   approach the target, switching back and forth between the modes of the
   GPS can become confusing.  I would guess that the terrorists switched
   to visual navigation.  Flight 11 may have followed the Hudson River.


   If you have flown over Washington DC, you may have noticed how
   difficult it is to pick out landmarks.   Even the Washington monument
   is difficult to spot; from the air, it is very small.  The White House
   is tiny and very tricky to spot.   It is possible that the target for
   American Airlines flight 77 was the White House, but the terrorists
   couldn't spot it.  In contrast, the Pentagon is huge and an easy
   target.  They may have gone to this as a backup -- because they could
   spot it visually.


   The airplane that hit the South Tower of the World Trade Center was
   steeply banked as it hit; this is evident from the movie taken from
   Battery Park.  Some people have stated that this shows the pilots were
   highly trained.  That is ridiculous.  It shows that the pilot had aimed
   the airplane badly, and was trying a last-minute desperation maneuver
   to hit the building.  Unfortunately, the maneuver succeeded.


                                   Impact


   As the airplane entered the World Trade Center building, it was torn
   apart, and the 60 tons of fuel, stored mostly in the wings, was
   released.  Such fuel is highly explosive when mixed with air, but the
   mixing is not easy to accomplish.  Only part of the fuel exploded.
   (Technically, it was not an explosion, but a conflagration.  That's why
   the sound was muffled.)  Most of the force of the explosion blew out
   several floors of the World Trade Center.  The explosion passed around
   most of the columns, leaving them in place.  (The only columns taken
   out immediately were probably those hit by the plane directly.)   Much
   of the airplane passed through the building and emerged on the other
   side.  This may be why debris from the airplane (including the passport
   of one terrorist) was found; it was not trapped in the building itself.


   The buildings survived the impact.  As you look at the films, note how
   little the upper parts of the buildings move.  The antenna on the North
   Tower hardly shook.  The upper part of the building remained vertical.
   Even the windows didn't break.  Neither the impact, nor the subsequent
   explosion, destroyed the building.


                          The Fire and the collapse


   The steel columns were covered with insulation, and were designed to
   maintain their strength for 2 to 3 hours of burning.  However, the
   material that burned was not office furnature and paper documents.  The
   wings, with their fuel load, probably remained in the building, where
   they provided fuel for the subsequent burning.  The fierce burning that
   took place over the next hour was slowly fed by the fuel leaking out of
   the remains of the tanks.


   At high temperatures, steel will melt.  At much lower temperatures, it
   weakens.  The jet fuel created a holocaust far hotter than planned for
   in the building.  When the columns weakened, they became vulnerable to
   buckling.  When buckling takes place, it takes place quickly.  When one
   column buckles, it puts more weight on the others, and they buckle
   too.  The columns for an entire floor (maybe for several floors)
   buckled at one time.  The upper floors then slammed into the lower
   floors.  The impact multiplied the force on these lower floors, and
   they buckled.  The process continued as each lower floor continued to
   buckle in turn.  In a few seconds, the entire building had collapsed.


   Did the terrorists know this would happen.  No.  This was a new mode
   for the collapse of a tall building that was completely unanticipated.
   I can't rule out that some engineer, sometime, didn't write a memo
   pointing out this failure mode, but it was not well known.  If it were,
   the building would not have had 300 firemen in the building at the time
   of collapse.


    It is the fire that eventually caused the buildings to collapse.  It
   was not the impact of the plane; it was not the explosion.


                           Will this happen again?


   No.  A commercial airplane will probably not be used as a weapon in the
   United States in the foreseeable future.  The reason is simple: without
   the cooperation of the pilot, the attack is very difficult to
   accomplish.  If the pilot keeps the cockpit door locked, the hijacking
   suddenly becomes much more difficult.  Remember, the only weapon the
   hijacker had was a knife.  In the past, this was sufficient: threaten a
   passenger, and the pilot will do whatever you ask.  In the future, no
   airline pilot will let a hijacker take control of the plane.


   Strengthening the cockpit doors can help.  Arming the pilots can help
   (if they get training).  Putting an armed guard on the plane can help,
   or it could hurt.  Unless the armed guard is very experienced, he can
   be defeated, and that gives the terrorists a gun.


   It is worthwhile noting that the terrorists probably did not even try
   to bring a gun or explosives on the plane.  That is undoubtedly because
   they weren't sure they could accomplish that.  They used only weapons
   that could reliably be smuggled on board.


                           What will happen next?


   Whoever is responsible for the attack may well be planning another.
   "Let me show the United States that it is not over!"  What will come
   next?


   All other terrorist attacks that I am able to imagine require much more
   sophistication than the recent attack showed.  Perhaps the most
   frightening attack would involve biological agents, perhaps anthrax.
   Such an attack could cause many deaths, but they would not yield the
   kinds of photos that we have been seeing.


   A great worry in the U.S. has been a nuclear attack.  News stories
   today surfaced claiming that Osama bin Laden's organization attempted
   to buy the components needed for a nuclear weapon.  This is not
   surprising.  Such a weapon can be small, and it could yield the kind of
   devastation that the terrorist might find appealing.  The weapon would
   likely be smuggled into the United States on a small boat, and set off
   in the harbor.  The organization and planning required would be much
   greater than for the hijacking, but it can not be ruled out.  The main
   argument against this attack is that it is very difficult to accomplish
   without something going wrong.  The terrorist will not have the
   opportunity to test the nuclear device, and so it may not work.


   The United States response to the terrorist threat may include action
   to minimize the nuclear danger.  This could involve US attacks on
   plants that we feel are designed for nuclear weapon purposes.  The
   United Nations has been prevented from inspecting suspected facilities
   for this purpose in Iraq, so I imagine that Iraq is expecting an
   imminent attack of many of its facilities.  North Korea is suspected of
   similar activity.  Both Pakistan and India have produced nuclear
   explosions.  The nuclear weapons inherited by Ukraine, Kazakhstan, and
   Belarus, have supposedly all been removed to Russia.  For information,
   see the Federation of American Scientists website at
   www.fas.org/nuke/hew/Nwfaq/Nfaq7.html.


   As I mentioned above, it probably will not be another hijacked US
   airplane. It could be a much smaller attack, such as the destruction of
   one or more airplanes.  The easiest way to do this is to ship an
   explosive in a commercial package that will be detonated when a sensor
   indicates it is at high altitude.  To anticipate this, the US is now
   prohibiting the shipping of commercial packages on passenger aircraft.
   A plane may explode, but it will not contain passengers.


   Most of the measures being taken by the US government are in
   anticipation of these alternative attacks.  So when the actions being
   taken don't seem to make sense, consider whether you are thinking about
   the kind of attack that the government is considering.


   Suppose they had hit a nuclear power plant?  Most nuclear power plants
   are designed to take a hit from a fully-loaded airplane.  The outer
   concrete vessel would have absorbed the blow and the inner reactor
   would not have been affected.  No radiation would have leaked.



                The sophistication and coordination required


   This was a remarkably simple attack.  It required virtually no
   infrastructure in the United States.  It required very little in the
   way of timing and logistics.  The terrorists did not have to obtain
   explosives.  There were not large numbers of people to coordinate.  All
   they had to do was get their people to the airports on time.  There was
   almost no way that it could fail.  The attack was characterized by its
   simplicity and its understanding of the vulnerability of the United
   States.
