http://www.boc.ca.gov/Missing.htm


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




   California Victim Compensation and Government Claims Board Home Page
   Victim Application for Crime Victim Compensation
   Victim Compensation
   Government Claims
   Revenue Recovery and Compliance Branch
   Latest Public Notice
   Download VCGC Board Forms and Publications
   California State Employees Charitable Campaign
   Missing Children Reward Program
   Job Opportunities
   Send your comments to the VCGC Board
   Survey
   California State Seal


   CALIFORNIA VICTIM COMPENSATION AND GOVERNMENT CLAIMS BOARD



                                                             __________ search
                                                                (*)  My CA


   MISSING CHILDREN REWARD PROGRAM

   Missing Children Reward Program
   The Davis-Grisham Missing Children Act of 1986 created the Missing
   Children Reward Program to assist local law enforcement agencies and
   other parties involved in the identification and recovery of missing
   children in California. Funds are available to reward persons with up
   to $500.00 for providing information which leads to the location and
   recovery of a missing child listed in the California Department of
   Justice Missing Children Registry.
   Eligibility Requirements:
     * The information provided led to the location and recovery of a
       missing child.
     * The child was listed in the Department of Justice Missing Children
       Registry at the time of the recovery.
     * A reward of non-state funds must first have been offered for
       information leading to the location of that missing child.
     * The claimant did not contribute to the disappearance of the missing
       child.
     * The claimant was not related to the missing child at the time of
       recovery.
     * The claimant was not working for any organization (either paid or
       volunteer) involved in the recovery of missing persons.
     * Any person claiming a reward may submit only one claim form for
       each recovered missing child.
     * The CVCGC Board must receive the claim form no later than six
       months from the date the child was recovered.

   Filing Claims:
   Reward claims may be filed with the Government Claims Branch. Requests
   for claim forms and brochures should be directed to the Government
   Claims Branch, 1-800-955-3564 or (916) 323-5768.
   For additional information on Missing Persons, click on the link below:
   California Attorney General's Office - Missing Person's Home Page

                             Back to Top of Page
      2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
