http://www.seniors.gov/oldnews/1001.html


FirstGov for Seniors Logo

                                                  A Portal Site of . . .
                                       Click here to go to the new FirstGov website!

         If you like this site, please [email2.gif] E-mail us to a
friend!


    http://www.ssa.gov
   FirstGov for Seniors
   is maintained by SSA.

                                 Departments
      "" Consumer Protection
      "" Education & Training
      "" Health
      "" Legislation
      "" Letters to the Editor
      "" Other Links
      "" Retirement Planner
      "" Seniors & Computers
      "" Services
      "" Strategic Plan
      "" Tax Assistance
      "" Travel & Leisure
      "" Work & Volunteer


    Federal Portals

   Text Links

   [Climate_____________________]   [BUTTON Input] (not implemented)___

                               Federal Agencies

                                 Text Links


      [Admin on Aging____________]
   [BUTTON Input] (not implemented)___

   State Web Sites

                                 Text Links

                          [Alabama_______________]
                     [BUTTON Input] (not implemented)___

               Apply for Social Security Retirement Benefits Online!

   News Articles from 10/01

   "" Medicare Simplifies Enrollment Form
   The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) today announced a
   new, streamlined enrollment form that will make it easier for qualified
   physicians and other health-care providers to become eligible for
   Medicare reimbursement .

   "" FDA Offers Halloween Food Safety Tips
   Children shouldn't snack while they're out trick-or-treating, before
   parents have a chance to inspect the goodies.  This is one of several
   tips on a new FDA page aimed at helping parents and grandparents ease
   their anxiety this Halloween.

   "" New Program For Frail Elderly To Live In Community
   The U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), in
   cooperation with the Missouri Department of Social Services, today
   approved a request by Alexian Brothers Community Services St. Louis, in
   St. Louis, Mo., to become the first provider under the permanent
   program of comprehensive care that allows frail elderly people to live
   in their communities.

   "" Vulnerable Elder Rights Protection
   A reader requested an article about Elder Rights and Adult Protection.
   Title VII, the Vulnerable Elder Rights Protection Title, created by the
   1992 Amendments to the Older Americans Act addresses the need for
   strong advocacy to protect and enhance the basic rights and benefits of
   vulnerable older people.  Also see the State of Colorado page on this
   issue.

   "" Medicare To Cover New Services For Elderly
   The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) announced recently
   that it intends to cover eye treatments for those with age-related
   macular degeneration, foot care coverage for some beneficiaries with
   diabetes, and ambulatory blood pressure monitoring for some patients.

   "" $20 Million In Grants For Mental Health Services Following Attacks
   HHS Secretary Tommy G. Thompson announced the release of more than $20
   million in additional assistance to eight states and the District of
   Columbia to support critically needed mental health and substance abuse
   services following the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

   "" Prescription Drug Assistance Programs
   The Medicare web page provides information on programs that offer
   discounts or free medication to individuals in need. You can find
   information on State prescription drug assistance programs, Medicare
   managed care plans, and Medigap plans that offer prescription drug
   coverage in your area.

   "" National Institutes of Mental Health (NIMH) Help in Dealing With
   Terrorism
   Includes articles such as Helping Children and Adolescents Cope with
   Violence and Disasters and Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), A
   Real Illness.

   "" Clinical Trial Tests BCG For Interstitial Cystitis
   Ten centers in the United States and Canada seek 260 patients to try a
   promising therapy for interstitial cystitis (IC), a chronic and painful
   bladder condition that mostly targets women.

   "" Coping With Crisis
   Times of crisis can lead to a lot of questions and many concerns. This
   is especially true for the national tragedy that occurred on September
   11, 2001. The Federal Consumer Information Center offers many
   publications to help you and your family during this difficult time.

   "" The TRICARE Retiree Dental (TRDP) Program
   The only dental benefits program authorized by the government for
   Uniformed Services retirees will soon be moving into its fourth year.

   "" Estrogen Doesn't Prevent Second Strokes - Protective Effects Of
   Hormone Replacement Therapy Challenged
   Estrogen hormone replacement therapy does not reduce the risk of stroke
   or death in postmenopausal women who have already had a stroke or a
   transient ischemic attack (TIA), according to a report from the first
   randomized, controlled clinical trial of estrogen therapy for secondary
   prevention of cerebrovascular disease.

   "" HHS, Bayer Agree To Cipro Purchase
   HHS Secretary Tommy G. Thompson and Mr. Helge H. Wehmeier, president
   and CEO of the Bayer Corporation, today (10/24/01) announced agreement
   for a significant new federal purchase of the antibiotic ciprofloxacin
   (trademarked Cipro) at a substantially lowered price.  The antibiotic
   is expected to be available by year end.  Supplementing existing
   emergency stockpiles, it would be available for use in the event of a
   bioterror event.

   "" MEDLINE, For 30 Years Serving the Health Community
   This month MEDLINE celebrates its 30^th birthday. The web version,
   called MEDLINEplus, has often been cited here as the authoritative
   resource for health information from the federal government. We found
   their Anthrax page to be up-to-date and informative.

   "" New FDA Home Page Look Debuts
   Based on feedback from user surveys and other research, FDA has made
   some changes to its home page that include placing more information
   within the page's first screen.  Also new to the site is the widely
   respected Google search engine.

   "" The Internet and Older Adults
   Fifty years ago at the first National Conference on Aging, older adult
   advocates called upon society to create more opportunities for the
   engagement and empowerment of older adults. This Administration on
   Aging site provides evidence of our progress, especially with use of
   the Internet, in achieving that goal.

   "" Medicare Launches National Education Campaign
   The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) today launched a
   national education campaign to help answer questions about options in
   Medicare, including health plans and coverage.

   "" 2002 Social Security Cost-of-Living Adjustment
   The 2002 cost-of-living adjustment for Social Security and SSI
   beneficiaries will be 2.6 percent.  This is based on the increase in
   the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers
   (CPI-W) from the third quarter of one year to the third quarter of the
   next, as announced today by the Labor Department.

   "" HHS Announces Medicare Premium And Deductible Rates For 2002
   The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) today announced
   legally mandated increases in the Medicare premium, deductible and
   coinsurance amounts to be paid by beneficiaries in 2002.

   "" HHS Awards $27.4 Million To Address Emerging Nursing Shortage --
   Grants awarded to 82 colleges, universities, other organizations
   HHS Secretary Tommy G. Thompson announced a series of grants and
   contracts totaling more than $27.4 million to increase the number of
   qualified nurses and the quality of nursing services across the
   country.

   "" Center for Disease Control Web Site on Anthrax
   Learn about this new threat to our security and dispel unwarranted
   anxieties.  CDC explains how to handle anthrax and other biological
   agent threats, and provides the latest Public Health Message updates.

   "" Additional $1.5 Billion Proposed To Combat Bioterrorism
   President Bush's $20 billion emergency relief budget request includes
   $1.5 billion for HHS to further strengthen the nation's ability to
   respond to and treat potential bioterrorism attacks.

   "" Commercial Drug Discounts Touted
   Last week the Bush administration praised the pharmaceutical firm
   GlaxoSmithKline for starting a new private drug discount plan for
   senior citizens which will enable an estimated 11 million elderly to
   qualify for 25-40% discounts on medication produced by the firm.

   "" Protecting Medicare Beneficiaries When Their Medicare+Choice
   Organization Withdraws
   Over the past three years some beneficiaries who enrolled in a
   Medicare+Choice plan were affected by their plan's withdrawal. CMS has
   undertaken a comprehensive outreach effort to educate beneficiaries
   about their remaining health care options.

   "" New Resources To Treat Type 1 Diabetes
   The National Center for Research Resources (NCRR), a part of the
   National Institutes of Health (NIH), announced today the award of
   grants in the amount of $10.4 million to establish 10 Islet Cell
   Resource (ICR) centers.

   "" First AIDS Vaccine Made At NIAID's Vaccine Research Center Enters
   Clinical Trial
   National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID)
   researchers at the Dale and Betty Bumpers Vaccine Research Center (VRC)
   today announced the start of a clinical trial testing the first AIDS
   vaccine invented at the new facility.

   "" HHS Makes $35M In Emergency Funds Available To Entities That
   Suffered Losses From September Attacks
   HHS Secretary Tommy G. Thompson announced the availability of $35
   million in competitive grants for public and not-for-profit entities
   that suffered losses because of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

   "" HHS Announces State Plan For $23.7 Million In Relief Funds For
   Disaster-Impacted Social Services
   HHS Secretary Tommy G. Thompson announced the release of $23.7 million
   in social services grants for six states and the District of Columbia,
   areas directly affected by the September 11 terrorist attacks.

   "" Urban Legend The Phony Email About an Email Surcharge
   Weve received several emails in the past two months about proposed
   legislation to impose a surcharge on email. This is a hoax. The news
   about this phony bill (602P) has been making the rounds for years.
   Check out the Urban Legends page above, or see the USPS press release.

   "" New Pacemaker Transmits Data to Doctor
   The FDA has approved the Biotronik Home Monitoring System, a new type
   of pacemaker that is the first approved implanted device capable of
   automatic, remote data transmission.

   "" Flu Vaccine Supply Status
   This season more vaccine is expected to be available than in previous
   years. Some delays in distribution are projected, but they are not
   expected to be as great those in the 2000_01 season. In years without
   delays, most flu vaccine is distributed by the end of October.

   "" Medicare-endorsed Rx Drug Discount Card Initiative in Federal Court
   Tom Scully, Administrator Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services
   (CMS) announced on October 10 that CMS filed a motion in federal court
   to stay all proceedings related to the Medicare-endorsed Rx Discount
   Drug Card initiative.

   "" Health, United States, 2001
   HHS released a new report, Health, United States, 2001, that shows
   Americans who live in the suburbs fare significantly better in many key
   health measures than those who live in the most rural and most urban
   areas.

   "" Antioxidant Vitamins And Zinc Reduce Risk Of Vision Loss From
   Age-Related Macular Degeneration
   High levels of antioxidants and zinc significantly reduce the risk of
   advanced age-related macular degeneration (AMD) and its associated
   vision loss. The same nutrients have no effect on the development of
   cataracts.

   "" New Crohn's Treatment Has Fewer Side Effects
   FDA has approved Entocort EC (budesonide) capsules for treating
   mild-to-moderate active Crohn's disease, a chronic, inflammatory
   disorder of the bowel.  Clinical trials of the drug revealed fewer
   cases of facial swelling and acne than seen with existing therapies.

   "" Life Expectancy Hits New High In 2000
   Life expectancy for the U.S. population reached a record high of 76.9
   years in 2000 as mortality declined for several leading causes of
   death, according to preliminary figures from a report released today by
   HHS' Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

   "" HUD Grant Encourages Model Building Code Changes To Help Increase
   Housing Opportunities For People With Disabilities
   The Department of Housing and Urban Development announced it has
   awarded nearly $900,000 in an educational grant to help communities
   ensure that more apartments and condominiums are built to be accessible
   to people with disabilities.

   "" Preliminary Status Of The Medicare+Choice Program For 2002
   The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) is committed to
   addressing the problems that have caused disruptions to the program.

   "" TRICARE Senior Pharmacy Program
   On April 1, 2001, uniformed services beneficiaries 65 years of age and
   over became eligible for one of the best pharmacy benefits available in
   the United States to older Americans.  If you missed the announcement
   read about it at the Tricare web site.

   "" FDA Looking for a Few Good Consumers
   FDA needs consumer representatives to serve on its advisory
   committees.  Candidates should have strong ties to consumer and
   community-based organizations, as well as experience in analyzing
   scientific materials and complex public policy issues.  Advisory
   committees provide FDA with independent opinions and recommendations on
   regulated products and agency policies.

   "" HHS Provides New Aid To Cities For Disaster Preparedness
   25 Awards Today Bring Total to 97 Cities So Far Receiving Assistance.

   "" HHS Announces Release Of $1.3 Million In Relief Funds To Older
   Americans Impacted By September 11 Disaster
   HHS Secretary Tommy G. Thompson announced the release of $1.3 million
   in funds to the New York State Office for the Aging and the Virginia
   Department for the Aging, states whose seniors have been directly
   impacted by the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

   "" HHS Announces New Grants To Support Family Caregivers
   HHS Secretary Tommy G. Thompson announced the award of approximately $6
   million for 34 projects to develop innovative approaches to assist
   families and informal caregivers of older persons, as well as
   grandparents and older relatives who are caregivers of children.

   "" NIDCR Funds Centers For Research To Reduce Oral Health Disparities
   The National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research (NIDCR)
   announced that it is stepping up the effort to address disparities in
   our nation's health by funding five new Centers for Research To Reduce
   Oral Health Disparities.

   "" Provide Input to the Development of the New Regulations for Title
   III of the Older Americans Act
   Visit the Administration on Aging web site and tell us what you think
   should be included in new regulations to be developed.

   "" Child Proof Caps and Seniors
   We received an interesting letter from one reader praising the new
   Tylenol caps: Cheers, many cheers to Tylenol for finally providing lids
   for Seniors. I am really tired of fighting childproof caps on bottles.
   I just bought a new bottle of Tylenol and I could open it without any
   trouble at all, a nice snap on lid.

   "" Citing Alarming Delays In Treatment, NHLBI And American Heart
   Association Call On Physicians To Stress Need For Speed In Calling
   9-1-1
   A joint call to action urging physicians to educate their patients
   about heart attack warning signs - and the importance of calling 9-1-1
   immediately - was announced today at a news conference by the National
   Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI) and the American Heart
   Association.

   "" NIMH-Funded Researchers Show Better Treatment For Depression Is
   Cost-Effective
   Researchers funded by the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH)
   have found that an inexpensive program that trains primary care
   providers to work with patients and mental health specialists to
   diagnose and properly treat depression can reduce the time that
   participating patients spend clinically depressed.

   "" HHS Announces $126 Million in Relief Funds for Disaster-Impacted
   Health and Social Services
   HHS Secretary Tommy G. Thompson today announced that $126,150,000 is
   being provided immediately to support services provided in the wake of
   the Sept. 11 terrorist-inflicted disasters. The funds are part of a
   total $5.1 billion in disaster-related funds released by President Bush
   today.

   "" Your Health During Times of Stress
   Doctors emphasize the basics during times of stress: rest, diet and
   exercise. This is good advice any time, but especially now, when
   tensions are high, and a calm, healthy body will benefit you and your
   community.

   "" HHS' New York Regional Office Reopens Following Attacks
   Secretary's Office Will Temporarily Relocate to New York Region Later
   This Fall

   "" HHS Awards Native American Elders Caregiver Grants
   HHS Secretary Tommy G. Thompson announced today the award of nearly $5
   million in grants to 119 tribal organizations to implement the new
   Native American Caregiver Support Program.

   "" Need Help Reading Your Medicare Statement?
   Ever wonder what all those codes on your Medicare Statement mean? The
   Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services has a web page that explains
   all.

   "" NHLBI Supported Study Finds Inhaled Steroids Accelerate Bone Loss In
   Women With Asthma -- Treatment Still Recommended for Persistent Asthma
   Premenopausal women who use inhaled corticosteroids to treat persistent
   asthma may experience accelerated bone loss in the hip compared to
   those who do not use inhaled steroids.
   "" HHS Launches healthfinder速 espa単ol
   HHS announced the launch of healthfinder速 espa単ol, a Spanish-language
   Web site that helps consumers track down reliable health information
   quickly and easily on the Internet.

   "" Scams in Wake of Disaster
   In the wake of the September 11 terrorist attacks on the Pentagon and
   World Trade Center, a warning went out to the elderly and others about
   charity scams that may appear.

   "" HHS Enhances Web Page As Easier-To-Use Resource On Disaster
   Information
   HHS Secretary Tommy G. Thompson announced that HHS has re-organized the
   agencys Web page to make it easier to find information on resources
   available to those affected by the September 11 terrorist attacks in
   New York City, Washington, D.C., and Pennsylvania.

   "" Emergency Phone Number for Medicare & Medicaid Beneficiaries Whose
   Normal Medical Needs Have Been Interrupted by the Tragedy.

   "" HHS Releases Immediate Grants for Child Care, Elderly and Mental
   Health Funds to Assist New York.

   "" FirstGov Provides Focal Point for Resources in Aftermath of
   Terrorist Attack
   Listings of U.S. Government information and resources in response to
   attack of September 11. Information and links will be added as they
   become known.

   "" HHS Launches Initial Medical Relief Response To New York, Pentagon
   Emergencies - Tuesday, Sept. 11, 2001
   HHS Secretary Tommy G. Thompson activated the National Disaster Medical
   System, putting medical teams nationwide at the ready to be sent to
   assist local areas in responding to medical emergencies. This is the
   first time the federally-coordinated response system has been activated
   on a full nationwide basis.


                                 Top of Page

                                 Divider Bar

   About Us | Feedback | Privacy | Search This Site | Site Map | Subscribe
                                   | Home

   Disclaimer: References from this web page or from any of the
   information services sponsored by FirstGov to any non-governmental
   entity, product, service or information does not constitute an
   endorsement or recommendation by FirstGov, Social Security, or any of
   its employees. We are not responsible for the contents of any off-site
   web pages referenced from this server. Although our page includes links
   to sites including or referencing good collections of information, we
   do not endorse any specific products or services provided by public or
   private organizations.
