http://www.inwg.cap.gov/DDR.htm

                        Drug Demand Reduction Program


   All,


   As some of you may know I have been appointed by Col Kavich to be the
   Drug Demand Reduction Director for Indiana Wing.  I hope to get Indiana
   back on the "funding wagon" so to speak, for the year FY 2003.  It is
   to late as of now to request funds for this year.  Our efforts should
   be focused on the future and planning for our next funding cycle's
   activities.


   I am holding a meeting at the DEC 15 before the holiday party for those
   that are interested in getting involved with this very worth while
   project.  It will take some work on both of our ends, but the rewards
   way out weigh the work that we have to do.  If you are interested in
   attending, please let me know so I will know how many materials to
   prepare. Cadets are ENCOURAGED TO ATTEND!!!! I would like for at least
   one representative from each unit with cadets to be present at the
   meeting, weather it be a cadet or senior. I would also like a
   representative from Cadet Programs, the CAC, and any project officers
   that involve cadets to attend.


   I will not just have this meeting and that is the last that you will
   hear form me, oh no you can't get rid of me that easy!!! I have a
   strategic plan to help all the units that are interested in
   participating, every month at the staff meetings and commander's calls,
   we will have workshops and work sessions to help us all along.  My goal
   is very simple.........to have all of the cadet units in INWG at least
   come up with a plan and work it through.  I will be there right by you
   step by step.  We will do this as a team!!!!!


   I was just forwarded a letter by Col Kavich that said there was only
   one wing in GLR that applied for funding and that was MIWG.  They got
   just about everything they asked for.     OUR job is to alleviate that
   !!!!!


   It really isn't a hard program, just one that is very misunderstood in
   the "big black dark cloud of the DDR Mystery."


   Here is your mission if you choose to accept it:  (Mission Impossible
   theme starts in background)........


   Come up with at least five ideas for funding at the unit level, and
   five for the Wing level, and bring it to the meeting.   It can range
   from color guard equipment, encampment scholarships, glider
   activities,  to radios, but there are some things that you can't get,
   like computers.

   Please check out the DDR web site off of the Emergency Services site at

   www.capnhq.gov



   I will be looking for a cadet assistant that is willing to jump right
   in with me on this project it will require very good organizational
   skills and a desire to be customer service oriented.  If you are
   interested please let me know and drop me an e-mail.


   I look forward to seeing you all at the DEC 15 meeting.


   Oh and don't worry this message will NOT Self destruct!!!!


   Happy Holidays!!


   Darrel D. Williamson, CAPT, CAP

   Indiana Wing Drug Demand Reduction Administrator

   "Together Everyone Achieves More!"


   Additional Information:


   All:


   It will be a pleasure to serve you as the new INWG DDR Administrator. I
   look forward to working with you all as a member of the INWG staff.


   Here is how to contact me:


   Capt Darrel D. Williamson, CAP

   4420 E. Whiskey Run Rd NE

   Georgetown, IN 47122


   (812) 366-4408 home and fax

   scout126@juno.com


   E-mail is the perfered method of contact as I am in and out a lot and
   dont' have an answering machine.


   I have made up DDR Reference Binders for each unit to use for thier DDR
   Program.  I gave some of them to the CAC Reps for your units at the DDR
   meeting at the Holiday party this SAT.  If you haven't recieved them
   please come to INWG staff meeting in JAN so I can give you one.
