http://tahoe.usgs.gov/text_version.html

   USGS Lake Tahoe Data Clearinghouse
   Western Geographic Science Center

Lake Tahoe Data Clearinghouse


   Welcome to the Lake Tahoe Data Clearinghouse website. This text-only
   page is an attempt to summarize the information about Lake Tahoe and
   the data available on this website. It is a condensed form of the
   website, please visit the individual pages for detail.

   The site is designed for ease of use and navigation with the following
   layout on every page:
     * USGS Lake Tahoe Data Clearinghouse logo on the top.
     * Menu (navigation) bar to the right.
     * Signature and speed bar at the bottom.

                            Horizontal Blue Bar.

                                   Welcome

   This section is a good starting point for those interested in a variety
   of information concerning Lake Tahoe.

   Topics Covered:

   Introduction

     The Lake Tahoe Data Clearinghouse website, created and maintained by
     the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) in partnership with Federal,
     State, tribal, and local agencies and groups, is a gateway to
     information and data on Lake Tahoe and its basin.

     The primary goal of this clearinghouse is to facilitate the
     coordination of research, monitoring, and environmental-management
     activities in the Lake Tahoe Basin and to ensure the widest possible
     access to data and information resulting from such activities. The
     site is designed to ensure that all interested parties --
     scientists, engineers, resource managers, developers, and the public
     -- have quick and easy access to Lake Tahoe data and information.

     Users of this clearinghouse have access to a wide range of digital
     data and Geographic Information System (GIS) products. Examples
     include high-quality digital maps of digital elevation models,
     digital orthophoto quadrangles, digital line graphs, and digital
     raster graphics for the Lake Tahoe area. Some of the data resides on
     the USGS server at the Western Geographic Science Center, Menlo
     Park, California. The majority of the data and information, located
     in databases maintained by the partnering agencies, is accessible
     from this clearinghouse via links.

     The site is organized into 3 different sections: (1) Welcome, (2)
     Digital Data, (3) General.

   USGS

     The USGS serves the Nation by providing reliable scientific
     information to:
     * Describe and understand the Earth.
     * Minimize loss of life and property from natural disasters.
     * Manage water, biological, energy, and mineral resources.
     * Enhance and protect our quality of life.

     The mission is accomplished through data collection, research,
     comprehensive studies, and information services in the broad
     disciplines of hydrology, geology, biology, geography, and
     cartography.

     The National Mapping Program of the USGS provides geographic and
     cartographic data, information, and related research to meet the
     broad requirements of the resource managers and Earth scientists in
     solving national challenges such as disaster response and
     mitigation, land and resource development, pollution abatement,
     transportation planning, urban development, and recreational use.

   Lake Tahoe Initiative

     On Saturday, July 26, 1997, President Clinton and Vice President
     Gore traveled to Incline Village, Nevada, to host the Lake Tahoe
     Presidential Forum.

     Recognizing the unique nature of Lake Tahoe and its surrounding
     basin, the President signed an executive order in July 1997
     directing Federal agencies to establish a formal interagency
     partnership charged with assuring coordination and efficient
     management of Federal program projects and activities with the Lake
     Tahoe Basin. The Executive Order also calls for the development of a
     linked natural-resources database and a Geographic Information
     System (GIS) capability.

   Geography & History

     Lake Tahoe is located along the border of California and Nevada.
     About one-third of the basin is in Nevada and two-thirds is in
     California. The basin is bounded by the Sierra Nevada to the west
     and the Carson Range to the east. The Lake Tahoe Basin was formed by
     geologic block (normal) faulting about 2 to 3 million years ago. The
     down-dropping of the Lake Tahoe Basin and the uplifting of the
     adjacent mountains resulted in dramatic topographic relief in the
     region. Mountain peaks rise to more than 10,000 ft (3,048 m) above
     sea level. The surface of Lake Tahoe has an average elevation of
     about 6,225 ft (1,897 m).

     Lake Tahoe was occupied by the Washoe Tribe for many centuries. The
     Washoe Indians were hunting and fishing in the area long before
     General John C. Fremont encountered it in 1844 during his
     exploration of the Far West. Since then, public appreciation of Lake
     Tahoe has grown. Efforts were made during the 1912, 1913, and 1918
     congressional sessions to designate the basin as a national park but
     were unsuccessful.

   Lake Facts

     Lake Tahoe is the second deepest lake in the United States and the
     tenth deepest in the world, with a maximum depth measured at 1,645
     ft (501 m), average depth of 1,000 ft (305 m). The depth of Lake
     Tahoe changes every day as the lake level changes. The deepest
     measurement from the 1998 bathymetric survey was 1,637 ft (499 m)
     deep.

     Lake Tahoe is about 22 mi (57 km) long and l2 mi (31 km) wide and
     has 72 mi (116 km) of shoreline and a surface area of 191 mi^2 (495
     km^2). The floor of the Lake Tahoe Basin is at an elevation of about
     4,580 ft (1,396 m). With an average surface elevation of 6,225 ft
     (1,897 m) above sea level, Lake Tahoe is the highest lake of its
     size in the United States.

     The water in Lake Tahoe could cover a flat area the size of
     California 14 in (36 cm) deep. This amount of water is enough to
     supply everyone in the United States with 50 gallons of water per
     day for 5 years. The amount of water that evaporates from the
     surface of Lake Tahoe every year could supply a city the size of Los
     Angeles for 5 years.

     The water temperature near the surface generally cools to 40 to
     50^oF (4.5 to 10^oC) during February and March and warms to 65 to
     70^oF (18 to 21^oC) during August and September. Below a depth of
     600 to 700 ft (183 to 213 m), the water temperature remains a
     constant 39^oF (40^oC).

     Lake Tahoe has a water clarity of about 100 ft (30 m) deep. Factors
     contributing to its clarity include the following:
     * 40 percent of the precipitation that falls into the Lake Tahoe
       Basin lands directly on the lake.
     * Remaining precipitation drains through granitic soils, which are
       relatively sterile and create a good filtering system.

                            Horizontal Blue Bar.

                                Digital Data

   This section allows users to have easy access to a wide range of
   digital data and GIS products specific to Lake Tahoe. Examples include
   high-quality digital maps of bathymetry, hydrography, roads, vegetation
   cover, forests, timber, soils, and population for the Lake Tahoe Basin.
   The USGS provides four digital cartographic products (the 4 D's):
   1. Digital Elevation Model (DEM).
   2. Digital Orthophoto Quadrangle (DOQ).
   3. Digital Line Graph (DLG).
   4. Digital Raster Graphic (DRG).

   Topics Covered:

   Data Downloads

     GIS data depot for all available data downloads and metadata are
     linked from here. Downloadable data are available for the following
     topics: DEM, DOQ, DLG, DRG, Bathymetry, Landsat, Landcover, Census,
     and Soils.

     The Lake Tahoe Basin covers 18 7.5-minute quadrangle maps. These 18
     individual quads have been mosaicked together. The mosaicked files
     are more convenient for looking at areas throughout the basin or
     areas on the edge of two quadrangles. Data are in UTM NAD27 zone 10
     projection.

     Raw (original) data are in the following projections: data east of
     120 degrees longitude are in UTM zone 11 and data west of 120
     degrees longitude are in UTM zone 10. It is not possible to combine
     different projections in Geographic Information System (GIS),
     therefore, all data have been reprojected into one standard
     projection, UTM NAD27 zone 10 projection, for the Lake Tahoe Basin.

     Here is an index of the individual quads that cover the Lake Tahoe
     Basin:


                          Truckee  Martis
                                    Peak     Mount
                                             Rose
                           Tahoe
                            City    Kings
                                    Beach  Marlette
                                             Lake
                          Homewood  Meeks
                                    Bay    Glenbrook
                         Roundbound
                          Valley   Emerald
                                     Bay     South
                                          Lake Tahoe
                          Pyramid
                           Peak     Echo
                                    Lake     Freel
                                             Peak
                          Tragedy
                          Spring   Caples
                                    Lake    Carson
                                             Pass


   DEM

     Cartographic/geographic data of elevations in xyz coordinates (view
     data in 3-dimensions).

     A Digital Elevation Model (DEM) is digital cartographic/geographic
     data in raster form. The terrain elevations for ground positions are
     sampled at regularly spaced horizontal intervals. DEMs are derived
     from hypsographic data (contour lines) and/or photogrammetric
     methods using USGS 7.5-minute, 15-minute, 2-arc-second (30- by
     60-minute), and 1-degree (1:250,000-scale) topographic quadrangle
     maps.

     Data Downloads are available for 10-meter resolution, with or
     without the bathymetry data. Formats are available for ArcInfo
     export and JPEG with world file.

   DOQ

     Digital, uniform-scale image created from aerial photos (a
     photographic map).

     A Digital Orthophoto Quadrangle (DOQ) is a digital, uniform-scale
     image created from aerial photos. It is a photographic map in which
     ground features are displayed in their true ground position, because
     relief displacements caused by the camera and terrain of an aerial
     photograph have been removed. It combines the image characteristics
     of a photograph with the geometric qualities of a map, thus it is
     possible to get direct measurements of distances, areas, angles, and
     positions from a DOQ.

     Data Downloads are available in Mr. SID format with world file for
     year 1992 and 1998.

   DLG

     Cartographic data in vector format (geographic data in points,
     lines, and polygons).

     A Digital Line Graph (DLG) is digital vector data representing
     cartographic information. DLGs contain a wide variety of information
     depicting geographic features (for example, hypsography,
     hydrography, boundaries, roads, utility lines, etc). DLGs are
     derived from hypsographic data (contour lines) using USGS
     7.5-minute, 15-minute, 2-arc-second (30- by 60-minute), and 1:2
     million-scale topographic quadrangle maps.

     Data Downloads are available in Spatial Data Transfer Standard
     (SDTS), ARC/INFO export, and shapefile format for the following
     items: Hypsography, Hydrography, Vegetation, Roads, and Human-made
     features

   DRG

     A scanned version of the USGS 7.5-minute topographic map.

     A Digital Raster Graphic (DRG) is a digital image (scanned version)
     of the USGS topographic map. DRGs are produced from USGS 1:24,000-,
     1:24,000/1:25,000-, 1:63,360- (Alaska), 1:100,000-, and
     1:250,000-scale topographic map series. The image inside the map
     neatline is georeferenced to the surface of the Earth and fit to the
     Universal Transverse Mercator (UTM) projection. The horizontal
     positional accuracy and datum of the DRG matches the accuracy and
     datum of the source map.

     Data Downloads are available in GeoTIFF and Mr. SID formats with
     world files.

   Bathymetry

     Relief map and data of the lake floor of Lake Tahoe.

     The Lake Tahoe Bathymetry survey was conducted on August 1998 using
     the latest-generation multibeam system by the USGS Western Region
     Coastal and Marine Geology Branch in cooperation with the Ocean
     Mapping Group (OMG) of the University of New Brunswick, Canada. The
     multibeam mapping system records both the bathymetric data (depth
     information) and the backscatter data (the strength of sound energy
     that bounces back). This information can help scientists identify
     the materials that make up the lake floor, such as rock, sand, or
     mud. New data can shed light on the history hidden by the waters of
     Lake Tahoe.

     Data Downloads are available for the following items:
     High-resolution images from the bathymetric survey, Fly-by Movie,
     different types of bathymetry DEM files in ARC/INFO format.

   Landsat 7

     Satellite image of Earth's surface.

     The USGS Landsat 7 satellite provides medium-resolution image
     information of the Earth's surface. It is a multispectral scanner
     that collects visible, near-infrared, short-wave, and thermal
     infrared frequency bands from the sun-lit Earth. Nominal ground
     sample distances or "pixel" sizes are 49 ft (15 m) in the
     panchromatic band; 98 ft (30 m) in the 6 visible, near and
     short-wave infrared bands; and 197 ft (60 m) in the thermal infrared
     band.

     Data Downloads are available in GeoTIFF and IMAGINE format.

   Landcover

     Information of Earth's surface.

     Data Downloads are available in GeoTIFF and ARC/INFO Grid format

   Census

     Population count.

     Data Downloads are available in Spatial Data Transfer Standard
     (SDTS), ARC/INFO export, and shapefile formats.

   Soils

     A survey of the soil types in Lake Tahoe region.

     Data Downloads are available for the SSURGO data in Spatial Data
     Transfer Standard (SDTS), ARC/INFO export, and shapefile formats.

                            Horizontal Blue Bar.

                                   General

   This section consists of general interest information.

   Topics Covered:

   Partners

     Lake Tahoe Data Clearinghouse (LTDC) is a success because of the
     support and contributions of data and information from many
     different organizations working together. The Tahoe Federal
     Interagency Partnership brings together Federal, tribal, State and
     local agencies along with local groups and individuals that share a
     common goal of helping everyone enjoy the natural beauty of the
     area.

     Here is a partial list of the groups involved with the Partnership:
     * U.S. Department of Interior (DOI)
     * U.S. Geological Survey (USGS)
     * U.S. Forest Service (Lake Tahoe Basin Mangement Unit) (USFS)
     * Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS)
     * Tahoe Regional Planning Agency (TRPA)
     * U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA)
     * U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT)
     * U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
     * U.S. Postal Service (USPS)
     * U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE)
     * State of California
     * State of Nevada
     * Washoe Tribe of Nevada and California
     * University of California - Davis (UCDavis)
     * University of Nevada, Reno
     * Desert Research Institute (DRI)

   Help Desk

     Questions and Answers regarding the Lake Tahoe Data Clearinghouse.
     Listed are the questions asked. Please visit the Help Desk page for
     the answers.
     * Who maintains this website?
     * Can I link to this website?
     * How can I view the data?
     * Where do the data come from?
     * What is a projection?
     * The data are in what projection?
     * How do I change projections?
     * How can I view the DEM elevation information in Arcview?
     * Is there similar data on other areas?
     * How do I view data in MrSID format?
     * Can I see objects on the bottom of Lake Tahoe?
     * Is there a poster version of the bathymetry available?

   Maps

     This page contains miscellaneous maps from a variety of sources
     available across the internet. These maps are images rather than GIS
     ready data.

     Maps available for road, quads locator, satellite, national map,
     slope, and bathymetry with steam monitoring sites.

   Pictures

     Views of Lake Tahoe from Earth and Space.

     The beauty of nature becomes more and more precious to us as
     civilization continues to grow. The experience we gain from
     exploring nature imprints a special memory within our heart. The
     experience is refreshing as we allow the serenity to regenerate our
     mind and soul. Nature allows us to expand our knowledge toward
     understanding the foundation of life, and directs our focus toward
     finding appreciation and happiness in life's simple things.

     Lake Tahoe is one of mother nature's most beautiful creations. From
     its alpine mountains to its flowing streams, Lake Tahoe is the place
     where we go to revive our mind and body. Its tranquil beauty
     refreshes and soothes us as we breathe in its refreshing scent. The
     awe-inspiring landscape opens our mind to a new perspective of life.

     Although pictures cannot replace the experience of reality, it is a
     good place to start.

   Sources

     A list of sources and references to Lake Tahoe reports and links.

     News and Reports -- News, reports, and research papers about Lake
     Tahoe.

     Notes and Minutes -- Basin Watch, Lake Tahoe Interagency Monitoring
     Program (LTIMP), Upper Truckee River Focused Watershed Group
     (UTRFWG), Water Quality Working Group (WQWG).

     Other Links -- Can't find what you need here? Try some other links
     about Lake Tahoe.

                            Horizontal Blue Bar.

                                    Note

   All information provided is deemed reliable but is not guaranteed and
   should be independently verified.

   Highlighted and (or) underlined terms are clickable and will take you
   to a new page. The footer symbol ( footer image. ) marks links to
   external web sites and selected pages that will open in a new window,
   with a few exceptions. Exceptions include but are not limited to the
   following: no footer symbol ( footer image. ) is placed before images
   and the signatures that have links to external web sites.

                                  Thank You

   Thank you for visiting the Lake Tahoe Data Clearinghouse website. The
   USGS and its partners designed this website for ease of use, and your
   feedback is encouraged. Please send your comments to Connie Hoong at
   choong@usgs.gov, or click on Feedback at the bottom of each webpage to
   fill out the form.

   Welcome
     * Introduction
     * USGS
     * Initiative
     * Geography
     * Lake Facts

   Digital Data
     * Downloads
     * DEM
     * DOQ
     * DLG
     * DRG
     * Bathymetry
     * Landsat
     * Landcover
     * Census
     * Soils

   General
     * Partners
     * Help Desk
     * Maps
     * Pictures
     * Sources

   footer image. This link opens in a new window.
   Horizontal Blue Bar.


    DOI - USGS - NMD - WGSC
    The URL of the page you are currently looking at is:
    http://tahoe.usgs.gov/text_version.html
    Designer of this page: Connie Hoong. choong@usgs.gov
    Last Modified: Wednesday, 17-Oct-2001 17:30:59 PDT
    Privacy Statement || Disclaimer || Accessibility || Web Team ||
    Feedback || Search

   WGSC Web Sites: WGSC Home || Bay Area || Crater Lake || Lake Tahoe Home
   to Lake Tahoe Data Clearinghouse.
