http://www.sidney.ars.usda.gov/at_a_glance/index.html



   NPARL Overview
   USDA-ARS Northern Plains
   Agricultural Research Laboratory
   [a_arrowline.gif]
   1500 N. Central Ave. – Sidney, Mt 59270
   [a_arrowline.gif]
   406-433-2020 • Fax: 406-433-5038
   http://www.sidney.ars.usda.gov
   Looking for Wheat Stem Sawfly

   HISTORY/MISSION
   The USDA-ARS Northern Plains Soil and Water Field Station was first
   dedicated in June 1965, thanks to local producers and businessmen who
   pushed for the Agricultural Research Service to establish a laboratory
   in Sidney. The original building was erected on a 10-acre site donated
   by the Eastern Montana Experiment Station, which has been both neighbor
   and colleague ever since. Since its inception, the laboratory has
   served as a research center to address problems of rangeland and
   irrigated agriculture in the cool, semiarid region encompassing eastern
   Montana and western North Dakota.
   Harvest Time
   PEST MANAGEMENT UNIT
   NPARL consists of two research units: the Pest Management Research Unit
   and the Agricultural Systems Research Unit. Pest Management scientists
   study new ways of dealing with age-old problems: insect and weed pests.
   Insects studied include grasshoppers, wheatstem sawfly, and sugarbeet
   root maggot, while weed targets include leafy spurge, knapweeds, hoary
   cress, and field bindweed. Scientists in this unit combine talents in
   entomology, ecology, pathology, and microbiology to develop
   biologically based approaches to pest control.
   Measuring Sugar Beets
   AG SYSTEMS UNIT
   The Agricultural Systems Research Unit looks to increase productivity
   and economic viability of crops in the Northern Great Plains by
   optimizing use of natural resources and farming inputs. Developing
   better crop rotations, improving soil and water quality through site
   specific farming practices, and applying remote sensing technology to
   measure crop nutrient status and map weeds are goals of this team. The
   unit also recently hired a plant pathologist and an irrigation
   specialist to look at disease and water-management issues in the
   region’s irrigated cropping systems.
   A. nigriscutis Ovipositing
   OTHER RESEARCH
   In 1997, TEAM Leafy Spurge—a five-year, integrated pest management
   demonstration project funded by ARS and conducted in cooperation with
   USDA/APHIS—was centered at NPARL. The regional research effort focuses
   on development of ecologically and economically sound strategies for
   curbing leafy spurge. In 1999, NPARL added an economist to its staff to
   provide a new component to its research efforts: an economic assessment
   of various research strategies, such as comparing the average
   profitability of alternative cropping systems being studied.
   Studying Plant Pathogens
   THE FUTURE
   NPARL is in the midst of a new, two-stage, multi-million dollar
   building project prompted by a doubling of its professional staff in
   the past decade and an ever-expanding research scope. The addition of a
   new lab/office complex in 2002 and a state-of-the-art biocontainment
   facility thereafter will continue the expansion of research in the
   environmentally friendly field of biological pest control. At the same
   time, the reorganization of NPARL into two research units has also
   meant a significant increase in research projects focusing on irrigated
   and dryland agriculture.
   Laboratory Complex

                       NEXT PAGE           NPARL HOME
