http://www.niehs.nih.gov/oc/news/sharon.htm

   Link to NIEHS Press Releases Home Link to NIEHS Home
                                     Link to NIH Home


     FOR RELEASE
     Dec. 11, 2001
     NIEHS PR #01-26                                NIEHS CONTACT: Tom Hawkins
                     (919) 541-1402
                     hawkins@niehs.nih.gov

     Sharon - and Beginning Readers - Search for the Environment

        Sharon, a young girl sets out on a quest to find the environment, which
        her teacher, Miss Clark, says people need to keep clean. Herman, a
        squirrel who seems to know more than he's telling, helps Sharon look.

        Sharon is the main character in a new read-along children's book
        published by the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences,
        an arm of the National Institutes of Health, in Research Triangle Park,
        N.C.

        Although the printed version of "Sharon Finds the Environment" is hot
        off the presses, Sharon has been tested and praised by young readers on
        the NIEHS Kids' Page for over a year, accessible through the NIEHS web
        site at http://www.niehs.nih.gov. In fact there is a second Sharon
        story also on the web, along with other stories, games, music and much
        else.

        NIEHS Director Kenneth Olden, Ph.D., said, "Young people can begin to
        grasp the concept of the environment very early, to know that what goes
        down the drain doesn't just disappear, and that people have to
        cooperate to keep the environment healthy."

        Dr. Olden said that the booklet is ideal for parents or other adults to
   read to children, or for children with early reading skills to read for
   themselves. The book has 14 pages balanced between text and large,
   colorful art by graphic artist Salvador Bru.

   Even before the original artwork was added, the text and clip art from
   the web site received a Department of Health and Human Services Plain
   Language Award in March 2001. The text was written by NIEHS News
   Director Tom Hawkins and was field tested on various nieces, nephews,
   kids, and grandchildren of people in his office, all of whom came up
   with helpful suggestions.

   Copies of the newly printed "Sharon Finds the Environment" are
   available at no cost for single copies or in limited quantities for use
   by schools, clinics, public health departments, pediatric practices,
   libraries, health fairs, etc., by contacting: Office of Communications
   and Public Liaison, Attn: Sharon Book, NIEHS, P.O. Box 12233, Research
   Triangle Park, N.C. 27709, or by telephoning (919) 541-3345, or email
   booklet@niehs.nih.gov.

   # # # #

   The URL for this press release is:
   http://www.niehs.nih.gov/oc/news/sharon.htm

          Sign up to get email announcements from the NIEHS News List


   Link to NIEHS Press Releases Home                                  NIEHS News
                                     Environmental Health Information


   Contact: WebCenter (webcenter@niehs.nih.gov)
         Credits and Tools  /  Disclaimer
                                               Search NIEHS NIEHS Home NIH Home

   -=-
