http://www.treasurydirect.gov/cc/ccdis.htm

   About Us

   Public Debt Home Page

   Print this page

   Navigational Tool
   Click for text links

                          Privacy and Legal Notices

   Privacy Notices
   1. Personal Information We May Ask For and Its Uses
   2. Personal Information Collected From Children
   3. Information Automatically Gathered When You Visit Our Site
   4. Our Legal Authority to Ask For Personal Information
   5. To Whom We May Release Information
   6. No Unsolicited Information Unless You Otherwise Request
   7. Information Collected From E-mails and Online Forms.
   8. Required Notice Relating to Our Online Forms
   9. Cautionary Note About Sending Unencrypted Personal Information Over
   the Internet
   Legal Notices
   1. Notice of System Monitoring
   2. Prohibition Against Misuse of Treasury Names, Terms, Symbols,
   Stationery, Etc.
   3. Disclaimer of Liability
   4. Disclaimer of Endorsement
   5. Jurisdictional Issues and Applicable Law
   6. Regulations Governing Electronic Transactions

                               Privacy Notices

   Your privacy is of the highest concern to us at the Bureau of the
   Public Debt. In fact, since 1946, long before the passage of the
   Privacy Act of 1974, we've protected the privacy of our investors by
   regulation. Our concern for your privacy is no different in the
   electronic age. To help protect your privacy, our site often uses data
   encryption--the Secure Socket Layer (SSL) protocol--to protect certain
   sensitive web pages. If a web page has an address that begins with
   "https://" rather than "http://" then the page uses encryption.

   1. Personal Information We May Ask For and Its Uses. We generally don't
   require you to provide any personal information in order to access this
   web site. In some instances, we'll ask for personal information such as
   your name, address, phone number, e-mail address, or Social Security
   number. We may also ask that you provide us your securities account
   numbers or bond numbers. We use personal information to enable us to
   issue securities, process transactions, make payments, identify owners
   and their accounts, and provide required reports to the Internal
   Revenue Service. We also use this information to give you access to
   your confidential information and to send you e-mail.

   2. Personal Information Collected From Children. We respect the privacy
   of children, and do not collect any more personal information than
   reasonably necessary to enable them to participate in the activities we
   offer at our Web site.

   With respect to our online information collection practices, from
   children under 13 years of age, on the kids' portion of our web site:
   We collect only enough personally identifiable information to enable
       them to send us e-mail if they have questions or comments. The
       information is used only to respond to a specific request for
       information. To the extent that we can identify that the contact
       information has been provided by a child, we then delete it.
       We advise children to check with their parents before sending
       e-mails. Please note that parents may consent to the above
       collection and use without necessarily consenting to the disclosure
       of personal information to third parties.
       We do not have any agreements with outside organizations to collect
       personal information at our site. Nor do we share children's
       personal information with anyone other than those who provide
       support for the internal operations of the Web site and our agents
       (e.g., contractors who provide fulfillment services or technical
       support to the web itself). All third parties with whom we share
       information have agreed to maintain security and integrity of
       personal information.
       Parents can ask about what information we have collected from their
       children online, prevent the further use or maintenance of such
       information or direct the deletion of their children's personal
       information by:

     * Calling us at the following telephone number: (304) 480-7725;
     * E-mailing us at the following address: OAdmin@bpd.treas.gov; or
     * Writing to us at the following address:
        Bureau of the Public Debt
            Information Dissemination Branch, Room 306
            200 Third Street
            Parkersburg, WV 26106-1328

   3. Information Automatically Gathered When You Visit Our Site. For site
   security purposes as well as to improve our site, we use software that
   can monitor network traffic and identify unauthorized attempts to cause
   damage or upload or change information. Like most web sites, when a
   page is requested we can obtain some information about the request,
   such as the type of browser used and the last site visited by the
   browser. We use this information for statistical purposes to make our
   site more useful to visitors. Some parts of our site use "cookies,"
   which are very small files placed on your hard drive by a web site. We
   use cookies to let us know whether you (or at least your computer) have
   been to our site before, which helps us personalize our service to you.
   However, we make no attempts to identify individual users or their
   usage habits, except in cases of authorized investigations by law
   enforcement agencies.

   4. Our Legal Authority To Ask For Personal Information. Our authority
   to ask for personal information generally comes from 31 U.S.C. chapter
   31 and 44 U.S.C. ยง 3101. We ask for personal information for the
   purpose of conducting securities transactions. If we request you to
   disclosure your Social Security number, we do by authority of 26 U.S.C.
   ยง 6109, which requires us to include this information on certain
   documents that we must send to the Internal Revenue Service. A request
   for you to disclose your personal information also is authorized under
   31 U.S.C. ยง 7701, for the purpose of reporting and collecting amounts
   that may be owed to the United States. Furnishing personal information
   is voluntary; however, without the information we may be unable to act
   upon your requests.

   5. To Whom We May Release Information. We can disclose information only
   as authorized by law. We may disclose information to:
     * our agents and contractors for purpose of administering the public
       debt or for analysis related to marketing purposes;
     * owners or persons entitled to transfer, exchange, distribution of
       payment of securities, including next-of-kin, guardians,
       representatives, and successors-in-interest upon death or
       incapacitation, for the purpose of assuring equitable disposition
       of principal and interest;
     * Federal agencies, including through computer matching agreements,
       for the purposes of collecting taxes or debts, of determining
       eligibility for Federal benefits, and finding persons with whom
       we've lost contact to inform them they should contact us for
       information on returned payments or unredeemed, matured securities;
     * Federal, State, and local agencies for the purposes of
       investigations or prosecutions;
     * consumer reporting agencies for the purpose of obtaining credit
       reports;
     * debt collection agencies for the purpose of debt collection;
     * trustees in bankruptcy and receivers of insolvents' estates for the
       purpose of carrying out their duties;
     * the Department of Justice and courts, magistrates, administrative
       tribunals, opposing counsel, witnesses or in response to a
       subpoena, for discovery, litigation, and settlement purposes; and
     * in response to a Congressional inquiry for the purpose of
       fulfilling a request made by the individual about whom a record
       pertains.

   6. No Unsolicited Information Unless You Otherwise Request. We won't
   use your personal information to send you unsolicited information
   without telling you before asking for the personal information or
   unless you ask us to do so, such as by asking to be placed on an e-mail
   list.

   7. Information Collected from E-Mails and Online Forms. When you
   contact us electronically, either by e-mail or by filling out an online
   form, you need to know that the information you provide may be reviewed
   by various people. If you have a question, for example, the information
   you provide may be forwarded to more than one office until we find the
   right person to answer your question. We may also share internally your
   answers to our questions so that we may serve you better.

   8. Required Notice Relating To Our Online Forms. We estimate that it'll
   take you no more than 30 minutes to fill out any form on this site,
   though most will take only a few minutes. This includes the time it
   will take to read any instructions, gather the necessary facts and fill
   out the form. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not
   required to respond to, a collection of information unless it contains
   a currently valid Office of Management and Budget (OMB) control number.
   If you have comments or suggestions regarding the above estimate or
   ways to simplify any of the forms used on this site, please send your
   comments or suggestions to the Bureau of the Public Debt, Forms
   Management Officer, Parkersburg, WV 26106-1328 and the Office of
   Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project 1535, Washington, DC
   20503.

   9. Caution About Sending Unencrypted Personal Information Over the
   Internet. Finally, if you choose to send us personal information
   electronically or request that we send you personal information
   electronically (such as by e-mail), we cannot guarantee its
   confidentiality as it travels across the Internet. While not likely,
   others could eavesdrop. To make this less likely, the Bureau of the
   Public Debt may use SSL encryption to protect information that you send
   or view. If a web page has an address that begins with "https://"
   rather than "http://" then the page uses encryption.

                                Legal Notices

   1. Notice of System Monitoring.
   You should know that this system is subject to monitoring by security
   personnel. If you're planning to "hack" or otherwise disrupt this site,
   consider yourself warned that unauthorized access is prohibited and may
   lead to criminal and civil action. So don't do it, alright?

   2. Prohibition Against Misuse of Treasury Names, Terms, Symbols,
   Stationery, Etc. Government works generally cannot be copyrighted,
   though we request the giving of appropriate credit. Also, keep in mind
   that 31 U.S.C. ยง 333 prohibits (among other things) the misuse of
   names, terms, symbols, stationery of the Department of the Treasury, as
   well as any colorable imitations of these items. This conduct is
   illegal if done in connection with business activities in a manner that
   reasonably could be construed as falsely implying that such activities
   are in any manner approved, endorsed, sponsored, authorized by, or
   associated with the Department of the Treasury. For instance, linking
   to or framing this site in a manner designed to falsely imply a
   relationship with Treasury is forbidden under the statute. Section 333
   also provides that the use of disclaimers is irrelevant to a
   determination of whether the statute has been violated.

   3. Disclaimer of Liability.
   WE DO NOT MAKE ANY WARRANTY, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING THE
   WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE,
   WITH RESPECT TO ANY SOFTWARE, INFORMATION, OR OTHER ITEM LOCATED ON,
   DERIVED FROM, OR LINKED TO BY THIS WEB SITE. (Sorry for the capital
   letters, but they're required.) For instance, we don't make any
   warranties with regard to the Savings Bond Wizard.

   Under no circumstances are we liable for any indirect, special,
   incidental or consequential damages of any character arising out of the
   use or inability to use these items. EVERYTHING IS PROVIDED "AS IS."
   For instance, we aren't liable for damages or injury caused by any
   interruption or delay in service or by a computer virus. We also aren't
   liable for any item created by a private party, including software
   products such as savings bond applications. Use of this service and any
   service derived wholly or in part from this web site is at your own
   risk.

   You assume the entire cost of all necessary servicing, repair, or
   correction of your property or operations as a result of using this web
   site. You also accept at your own risk that the Internet and online
   communications medium may not perform as intended despite our efforts,
   your Internet service provider, and you.

   4. Disclaimer of Endorsement.
   Finally, any reference to any specific commercial products, process or
   service, by trade name, trademark, manufacturer or otherwise, does not
   necessarily constitute or imply our endorsement, recommendation or
   favoring. For instance, a link to a third party web site doesn't mean
   we support that web site, and we're in no way responsible for the
   content of any third party web site.
   5. Jurisdictional Issues and Applicable Law. For jurisdiction and venue
   purposes, the point of transaction for any transaction is Parkersburg,
   West Virginia, regardless of from where the transaction request is
   transmitted or where the transaction request is actually processed.

   6. Regulations Governing Electronic Transactions. We have regulations
   governing electronic transactions, which are set out in 31 CFR part
   370. These regulations generally apply as a matter of contract law. The
   regulations require you to exercise ordinary care in protecting the
   means (account number, password, or digital certificate) that you use
   to access our site and conduct transactions electronically. If you
   don't exercise ordinary care and an unauthorized transaction is the
   result, then under some circumstances you could be held accountable for
   those transactions. At the very least, these regulations require you to
   inform us promptly if you believe that another person has improperly
   obtained your means of accessing our site and conducting transactions
   electronically.

   Notes:

   The links to the statutes and regulations on this page will take you
   away from this site. Also, keep in mind that the online laws are not
   official texts and may be out of date. The official texts are published
   by the Government Printing Office.

   The provisions of this page extend to Public Debt's auction processing
   web site and to Public Debt's Administrative Resource Center web site.

                          Updated November 20, 2000
