http://t14web.lanl.gov/Research/TDAC2000/dienes.00.pdf

   Theoretical Division - Self-Assessment Special Feature Detonation
   Theory & Application, T-14 April 2000 Statistical Crack Mechanics:
   Recent Progress and Prospects for the New Millennium John K. Dienes In
   the ductile state, large deformations of materials can be modeled with
   a relatively Comparison of opening q1 and radius q2. simple rule
   relating stress and strain rate. However, no corresponding rule is
   known for brittle behavior, and it seems unlikely 100 MPa that one
   exists since the defects respon- sible for brittle behavior are
   unstable*. In Statistical CRAck Mechanics (SCRAM) we simulate brittle
   behavior by combin- ing the response of various sets of defects
   (cracks) whose individual behavior is un- derstood. In addition, SCRAM
   shows that it is valid to combine different kinds of material behavior,
   including brittle, vis- coelastic, porous, and ductile deformation, as
   well as the high-pressure equation of state. An ad hoc superposition
   principle of this kind has been used since the thir- ties to combine
   elastic and plastic flow, but the one used in SCRAM is more gen- eral
   in several respects: it has been derived from first principles, it is
   valid for arbi- Comparison of opening q1 and radius q2. trarily large
   deformations, and it applies to many kinds of material behavior, not
   just the small elastic-plastic deformations 400 MPa originally
   envisioned by Prandtl and Reuss. The current SCRAM effort in- volves
   both formulation of the theoreti- cal basis for our materials algorithm
   and application to practical problems of brittle behavior, including
   the dynamics of ceramic armor and the sensitivity of explosives. Both
   of these have resisted standard theoretical treatments. The ul- timate
   goal is to take SCRAM from a fea- sibility study to a robust,
   self-consistent algorithm suitable for three-dimensional calculations
   of complex material flow and failure. recent work, crack dynamics is
   represented by a pair of In the first versions of SCRAM, crack behavior
   was rep- Lagrange equations with crack opening and size as the resented
   by a quasi-static theory, and crack growth was generalized coordinates
   and internal pressure and far-field prescribed at a rate known from
   empirical rules. In more Los Alamos Theoretical Division -
   Self-Assessment - Special Feature stress as the generalized forces.
   These equations provide There has been considerable emphasis in recent
   years behavior in agreement with conventional fracture theory, on the
   ability to compute three-dimensional processes. including the
   transition from stable to unstable crack be- In recognition of this, a
   three-dimensional version of havior, and they account for the variation
   in crack speed SCRAM has been developed and tested as a stand-alone
   with stress in both the dynamic and creep regimes. These package. We
   are planning to incorporate it into the three- equations form a part of
   the new SCRAM algorithm. dimensional CFDLIB, PRONTO, and EPIC codes.
   Sim- plified versions have previously been incorporated into One of the
   principal applications of SCRAM has been to DYNA and CTH. provide an
   understanding of the sensitivity of explosives to low-speed impact.
   Though we have predicted that A major outstanding question is: how much
   theory is nec- interfacial crack friction is the probable initiation
   mecha- essary to deal with the practical issues that face us? We nism
   since the 70s, only recently has this become accepted are continuing to
   examine the underlying tensor theory of by experimentalists. Following
   ignition, explosives burn. deformations, though the main demand seems
   to be for Recently, we have accounted for the burn in crack interiors
   quick, practical results and, consequently, scalar theories using a
   classical multiphase treatment akin to flame theory. are sought and
   favored by many users. Nevertheless, it Some confirmation of the SCRAM
   algorithm with burn seems likely that in the long run tensor theories
   will be has been obtained by comparisons of computed material
   predictive, while scalar theories will not. velocities with very
   accurate measurements in a reactive multiple-shock experiment. These
   velocity histories indi- cate shock coalscence and burn, but not
   detonation. Crack burning is a very complex process involving both
   crack dynamics and multiphase chemistry. Rather than attempt a full
   finite-difference simulation we have mod- One of the principal
   applications of SCRAM has been to provide an under- standing of the
   sensitivity of explosives to low-speed impact. elled the process with
   the Lagrange equations and a one- dimensional burn model that assumes
   heat flow perpen- dicular to the crack plane, as described above. This
   algo- rithm can be introduced into multi-dimensional hydrocodes to
   represent the behavior at the mesoscale without an unrealistic
   computational burden. The behav- ior of an isolated crack is highly
   nonlinear, as illustrated by a comparison of the response to driving
   pressures of 100 and 400 MPa in the figures. The former shows a stable
   response while the latter is highly unstable. Thus, *The simplicity of
   the flow rules for plasticity arises from the slow burn in cracks does
   not cause a violent reaction stability of dislocations which are
   responsible for ductile flow. because the rate of crack growth is
   normally so high that Since brittle failure is due to unstable cracks,
   it is not possible the pressure in the crack interior rapidly drops to
   a level to construct a theory akin to thermodynamics or standard
   statis- at which the burn rate is negligible. Hence, our tentative
   tical mechanics wherein the degrees of freedom are in some kind of
   equilibrium. conclusion is that crack interactions are responsible for
   violent explosions caused by certain low-speed impacts rather than
   isolated cracks acting as hot spots. A U. S. Department of Energy
   Laboratory jkd@lanl.gov This paper is a portion of LA-UR-00-1. Los
   Alamos
