http://www.cns.gov/contactus.html


   The Corporation for National and Community Service banner

   Contact Information

      Corporation for National and Community Service
      1201 New York Avenue, NW
      Washington, D.C. 20525
      phone: 202-606-5000
      TTY: (202) 565-2799
      webmaster@cns.gov
      Corporation for National and Community Service State Offices
      State Offices develop, implement, and monitor the Corporation's Senior
      Corps grants and AmeriCorps*VISTA projects.
      State Commissions Contact Information
      Most states have Governor appointed commissions for national service.
      They administer more than 700 local programs.
      State Education Agency Information
      Administers school-based service-learning programs for K-12 students.
      Get Involved
      AmeriCorps
      AmeriCorps engages people 17 and older in service to their community.
      For a term of service with AmeriCorps, members can earn an education
      award up to $4,725 that can be used for student loan repayment and
      school tuition. Find out more about getting involved with AmeriCorps.
      Please e-mail any questions about becoming an AmeriCorps member to
      Questions@AmeriCorps.org.
      Senior Corps
      Through the Senior Corps, nearly half a million Americans age 55 and
      older share their time and talents to help solve local problems. If
      you're 55 or older and want to get involved, see what Senior Corps has
      to offer.
      Learn & Serve
      With the help of Learn & Serve America, over 1 million children
      participate in service-learning activities in their schools and
      communities. If you're a teacher or a student, find out how you can get
      involved with Learn & Serve America.
      AmeriCorps | Senior Corps | MLK Day of Service
      Learn and Serve America | Leader Schools | President's Student Service
      Awards | National Service and Education
      Contact Information | Site Map | Privacy Policy

   Make it a day on.. not a day off. MLK Day of Service. Everybody can be
        great because everybody can serve. Click here for mlkday.org

   Homeland Security
   AmeriCorps and Senior Corps to Support Homeland Security Efforts -
   Every American Can Help
   What's Hot!
   Current events, available funding, new resources...
   Get Involved. Links to joining an AmeriCorps program, joining a Senior
   Corps program, info about Learn and Serve America and How to Start a
   Program.
   About Us. Info about the Corporation, legislation, CEO Les Lenkowsky
   and our Board of Directors, state office and Commission contacts.
   Service News. Press releases, speeches, fact sheets, public service
   announcements, National Service News.
   Resources for Programs. Manuals, handbooks, forms, logos, training
   info.
   Members and Alums Information. Ed Award information, All-AmeriCorps
   Awards.
   Rsearch and Evaluation. Research on all programs and Fellows products.
   Jobs/Fellows/Interns. Employment with the Corporation, Fellowship and
   Internship infomration.
   National Service in your State. Find out what's happening in your
   state. State by state links to projects, highlights from program, and
   contact info.
