http://www.technology-taskforce.gov/default.asp?whichfile=21_century_2.asp

   FRAME: header
   FRAME: main

   President's Task Force on Federal Training Technology seal
       President's Task Force on Federal Training Technology logo
   Click here to remove frames.
   [pixel-blue.gif]

                                  About us
                               Press releases
                              Related materials
                         Frequently asked questions
                                    Links
                                  Members only

                               THE WHITE HOUSE
                        Office of the Vice President
     __________________________________________________________________

   For Immediate Release   January 12, 1999

                        VICE PRESIDENT GORE ANNOUNCES
                  NEW EFFORTS TO PREPARE AMERICA'S WORKERS
                     AND EMPLOYERS FOR THE 21ST CENTURY

              Gore Convenes Summit, Announces New Initiatives,
                           to Help Meet Challenge

        Washington DC --Vice President Gore convened a Summit on "21st
   Century Skills for 21st Century Jobs " -- a national forum organized to
   help working Americans get the skills they need to succeed and to
   ensure employers get the skilled workers they need to stay competitive.

        "America's competitiveness and the prosperity of our people in a
   changing economy depend increasingly on high-skill, high-wage jobs,"
   said Vice President Gore, who, along with Labor Secretary Alexis
   Herman, Commerce Secretary Bill Daley, and Small Business Administrator
   Aida Alvarez, invited business and education leaders, federal, state
   and local officials, labor unions, and communities across the nation to
   Washington to discuss strategies for addressing this challenge.

         "Realizing our potential will require investing in education and
   learning for all of our people throughout their lifetimes." At the
   Summit, which involved tens of thousands of people satellite in more
   than 800 communities across the nation, the Vice President announced
   several steps to address this challenge. These steps include:

     An Estimated $60 Million Plan to Help Train American Workers for
     High-skill Jobs in Industries Facing Skill Shortages: The Vice
     President announced a new $60 million plan to help regional
     partnerships identify skill needs in shortage areas, design training
     curricula to upgrade the skills of incumbent and dislocated workers,
     provide training for workers to prepare them for these jobs, and
     support the planning and policy efforts of local business-led boards
     established under the recently enacted Workforce Investment Act.
     These partnerships would be led by businesses working with other
     partners, including institutions of higher education, labor unions,
     and workforce investment boards. The plans call for financing these
     efforts through existing funding and funds generated by the $500 fee
     on employers for petitions filed under the H-1B program.

     More Worker Scholarships for the 21st century. Citing a new
     Administration report describing the benefit of education and
     training for employees and employers, the Vice President called for
     more employers to cover the costs of their employees' education and
     proposed an expansion and extension of Section 127 of the tax code
     to help make this possible. This proposal will assure that employees
     can receive educational benefits from their employers tax-free --
     whether the employee is taking undergraduate or graduate courses.

     A new tax credit to encourage literacy programs at the workplace.
     The Vice President proposed a new tax credit to encourage employers
     to provide literacy, English-as-a-Second Language, and basic
     education programs for their employees. Under this proposal,
     businesses could get a 10% income tax credit for these kinds of
     programs with a maximum credit of up to $525 per participating
     employee.  An alarming number of American adults -- 44 million
     according to the National Adult Literacy study -- struggle with a
     job application, cannot read to their children, or are left on
     welfare rolls because they lack basic skills. Some are immigrants
     who face long waiting lists in many cities for English-as-a-Second
     Language courses. This new tax credit will help deploy the resources
     of businesses to make sure those in greatest need don't get left
     behind.

     A challenge to help every adult American finance postsecondary
     education and training throughout their lifetime and a new advisory
     committee of outside experts and leaders to develop options for
     meeting this challenge. Saying that the nation was crossing into a
     new economic frontier -- where knowledge has become our strategic
     resource and learning our strategic skill -- the Vice President said
     that every American should have a mechanism to finance their
     postsecondary education and training throughout their lifetime. To
     this end, President Clinton and he will create an advisory committee
     of outside leaders and experts that will analyze such options as
     low-income loans, grants, tax incentives, or other ways to pay for
     adults to continue their education.  The Vice President suggested
     exploring new ways to encourage Americans to pool their own savings,
     contributions from their employers, and possibly federal funds to
     pay for lifetime learning. Among other ideas the Vice President
     wants to be considered to accomplish this goal is the creation of a
     lifetime learning account.

     Helping more working Americans and dislocated workers get access to
     college aid. To help more working Americans and dislocated workers
     benefit from federal aid to college, the Vice President announced
     that is calling on the Secretary of Education to remind every
     institution of higher education of the flexibility to allow
     dislocated workers to receive Pell Grants (even if their income the
     previous year would otherwise make them ineligible) and to encourage
     them to use this discretion to help dislocated workers go back to
     school and obtain the retraining they need.  The Vice President also
     called on the Secretary of Education to encourage each institution
     of higher education to help make adults aware that Pell Grants may
     be used by working adults in part-time programs leading toward
     degrees.

     Prestigious New Award from the President and Vice President for High
     Skills Communities that invest effectively in raising the skills of
     adults across the community. Up to ten communities each year would
     receive a national award from the President and Vice President for
     achieving concrete results in improving the skills of their adult
     workforce and will receive financial support to help other
     communities learn from their efforts. Modeled after the Baldrige
     Award, this award will require applicants to go through a rigorous
     self-assessment to identify needs in their community and develop
     additional strategies for improving adult literacy and workforce
     skills.

     Bringing together a new leadership group of top CEOs, college
     presidents, labor union leaders, cabinet members, and other public
     officials to help working Americans develop the skills they need for
     career success and economic security. This leadership group will
     develop recommendations for how employers, institutions of higher
     education, labor unions, local and state governments, and entire
     communities can invest -- individually and working together -- in
     workforce skills and learning. The group will also develop
     principles to help identify exceptional programs and partnerships to
     upgrade the skills of adults and publicize them in ways that can
     help others learn and build on their successes.  Finally, the group
     will develop plans for informational and marketing campaigns that
     could be used by the private sector and State and local governments
     to encourage adults to pursue ongoing education and training.

     Launching new Internet services --America's Learning eXchange (ALX)
     -- to provide easy access to information about available education
     and training opportunities and resources. Individual Americans will
     be able to use this new Internet service like an electronic "yellow
     pages" to search for courses, seminars, workshops, or training
     programs and providers that best meet their needs. They will also be
     able to access consumer information about jobs, skills required,
     employment trends and institutions to help them make informed
     choices about the training and education they need. Employers will
     be able to locate training packages and providers that can meet
     training specifications. Finally, it will be able to provide
     personalized information on the different kinds and likely amounts
     of public and private financial assistance available to support an
     individuals' lifelong learning.

     New Executive Order to help the federal government become a model
     user of technology for training.  Later today, the President will
     sign an Executive Order that encourages innovative use of technology
     for training in federal agencies, creates a Task Force to provide
     leadership within the Federal government on the effective use of
     training technology, and ensures that all federal agencies include
     training technology as a fundamental part of their planning. OPM
     Director Janice Lachance will oversee this effort.

     Releasing a new Administration report showing the pay-off of
     investing in education and training.  This new report finds that
     eight of the ten fastest growing jobs in the next decade require
     college education or moderate to long-term training. The report also
     linked education to job security, finding that adults with higher
     levels of education are less likely to be unemployed and are more
     likely to find reemployment quickly if they are displaced. Moreover,
     dislocated workers with an associate's degree or higher found new
     jobs at a higher average pay than the jobs they lost. Finally, the
     report highlighted data showing that increased education and
     training is linked to higher employee wages and employer
     productivity, with college graduates earning on average 77% more
     than individuals with only a high school degree (up from 58% in
     1975). But the report suggested that not enough adult Americans
     benefit from these investments, especially those in greatest need --
     including younger adults, the elderly, and the less educated, and
     outlined several key challenges that need to be addressed. The
     report is from the Departments of Commerce, Labor, Education - as
     well as the Small Business Administration and National Institute for
     Literacy.
