http://www.graysreef.nos.noaa.gov/privacy.html


   [grnms.jpeg]

   General Information

   research

   education

   Shades of Gray

   Jane Yarn Cruise Reports

   buoy data

   Sanctuary Advisory Council

   local news and other sites

   underwater pictures

   sanctuaries homepagehomepage






                      Gray's Reef Banner

    Gray's Reef National Marine Sanctuary (GRNMS) Web Site

                       Savannah, Georgia

                Privacy and Security Statement



   The GRNMS Web Site

   The Gray's Reef National Marine Sanctuary (GRNMS) is a division
   of the Office of National Marine Sanctuaries, under the National
   Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, U.S. Department of
   Commerce, publishes this World Wide Web site as a public
   service. Information presented on these pages is considered
   public information and may be distributed or copied without
   concern for copyright infringement. Where authored material
   (essays, stories, etc.) and photographs are used, appropriate
   credit is given. If such material is copied from the GRNMS Web
   site, the use of appropriate citation and credit is requested.

   The National Ocean Service Server

   National Ocean Service (NOS), an office of the National Oceanic
   and Atmospheric Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce,
   operates this World Wide Web server as a public service.
   Information presented on these pages is considered public
   information and may be distributed or copied. Use of appropriate
   photo and image credits is requested. All Web servers need to
   collect technical information in order to share their contents
   with visitors. The technical information identifies what part of
   the Web site a visiting computer wishes to reach, and where to
   send the requested information once it is found. For site
   management, this technical information is also used for
   statistical analysis. Summary statistics are used for such
   purposes as assessing what information is of most and least
   interest, identifying usage trends over time, determining
   technical design specifications, and identifying system
   performance or problem areas. These aggregate statistical
   summaries are posted on the Web site for use by National Ocean
   Service personnel, and are available to the public. For more
   information on the NOS Web Server, please view the associated
   Privacy Statement at: http://www.nos.noaa.gov/privacy.html.

   Electronic Mail

   Electronic mail sent to addresses listed on this Web site, is
   treated no differently than any other electronic mail. All
   electronic mail transactions are handled by electronic mail
   servers, and do not pass through this Web site, nor are they
   monitored or recorded by this site in any way.

   Cookies

   This Web site does not use Web "cookies."

   Monitoring of Unauthorized Attempts to Change Material

   For site security purposes and to ensure that this service
   remains available to all users, this government computer system
   employs hardware and software to monitor network traffic and to
   identify unauthorized attempts to add or alter information, or
   otherwise cause damage or interfere with information delivery.
   Except for authorized law enforcement investigations, no attempt
   is made to identify individual users or their usage habits. Raw
   data logs may be stored indefinitely for use in statistical
   analysis or to protect the security and integrity of the
   computer system.

   Unauthorized attempts to add information or alter information on
   this service are strictly prohibited and may be punishable under
   the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986 and the National
   Information Infrastructure Protection Act.

   Please note that other National Ocean Service Web sites may have
   different information collection practices. If interested,
   please consult their site-specific privacy statements for
   details on such policies.

   If you have any questions or comments about the information
   presented here, please forward them to the GRNMS webmaster, Alex
   Score: Alex.Score@noaa.gov.
