http://water.usgs.gov/wrd001.html

   USGS
   Water Resources

                                    Programs

     The USGS is the Nation's largest earth-science agency and has the
     principal responsibility within the Federal government for providing
     hydrologic information and for appraising the Nation's water
     resources. Hydrologic data and other data are used in research and
     hydrologic studies to describe the quantity, quality, and location
     of the water resources of the United States. The collection,
     analysis, and interpretation of these data is done in cooperation
     with other federal, state and local agencies, universities, and
     research centers.

State and Regional

          The USGS manages water information at offices located throughout
          the United States. Although all offices are tied together
          through a Nation-wide computer network, each collects data and
          conducts studies in a particular area. Local information is best
          found at these sites.

National (listed alphabetically)

          Branch of Geophysical Applications and Support -- Provides
          technology transfer and training for geophysical methods,
          guidelines for quality assurance and quality control for the
          collection, processing, storage, and interpretation of
          geophysical data, and carries out specialized research studies
          to enhance the knowledge and application of advanced geophysical
          methods related to water-resources problems.

          Branch of Technical Development and Quality Systems -- Operates
          and maintains the National Training Center, provides technical
          support and advice on quality management technology, manages and
          operates quality control programs for water resources, and
          provides training and coordination on quality assurance programs
          for the Districts.

          Ground Water Atlas of the United States -- The USGS series of
          print publications "The Ground Water Atlas of the United States"
          describes the location, the extent, and the geologic and
          hydrologic characteristics of the important aquifers of the
          Nation.

          Hydrologic Instrumentation Facility (HIF) -- supports USGS
          hydrologic data-collection activities through the identification
          of needs, development of technical specifications, design or
          development of specialized interfaces, contracts and
          procurements, testing and evaluation, specialized field
          applications, repair and calibration, quality control and
          assurance, and storage and distribution of hydrologic
          instrumentation.

          National Atmospheric Deposition Program/National Trends Network
          (NADP/NTN) -- A nationwide network of precipitation monitoring
          sites. The first sites in the network were established in 1978.
          The network currently consists of approximately 200 sites.

          National Irrigation Water Quality Program -- A Department of
          Interior program to identify and address irrigation-induced
          water quality and contamination problems related to Department
          of Interior water projects in the west.

          National Research Program -- conducts basic and problem oriented
          hydrologic research in support of the mission of the USGS. The
          program is designed to encourage pursuit of a diverse agenda of
          research topics aimed at providing new knowledge and insights
          into varied and complex hydrologic processes that are not well
          understood.

          National Stream Quality Accounting Network (NASQAN) -- focus is
          on monitoring the water quality of four of the Nation's largest
          river systems--the Mississippi (including the Missouri and
          Ohio), the Columbia, the Colorado, and the Rio Grande.

          National Water Quality Assessment Program -- A program designed
          to assess historical, current, and future water-quality
          conditions in representative river basins and aquifers
          nationwide.

          National Water Quality Laboratory -- Fulfills analytical
          requirements of the USGS by analyzing environmental samples for
          inorganic, organic, and radiochemical constituents.

          National Water Summary -- A series of publications designed to
          increase public understanding of the nature, geographic
          distribution, magnitude, and trends of the Nation's water
          resources. It often is referred to as the USGS "encyclopedia of
          water."

          National Water-Use Program -- A program examining the
          withdrawal, use, and return flow of water on local, state, and
          national levels.

          State Water Resources Research Institute Program -- A matching
          grant program to support water resources research, education,
          and information transfer at the 54 university based Water
          Resources Research Institutes. This program includes the
          National Institutes for Water Resources USGS Student Internship
          Program.

          Toxic Substances Hydrology (Toxics) Program -- provides unbiased
          earth science information on the behavior of toxic substances in
          the Nation's hydrologic environments. The information is used to
          avoid human exposure, to develop effective cleanup strategies,
          and to prevent further contamination.

          USGS Environmental Affairs Program -- provides guidance and
          information on the National Environmental Policy Act and other
          environmental issues.

          Water Information Coordination Program (WICP) -- purposes of the
          program are to ensure the availability of water information
          required for effective decisionmaking for natural resources
          management and environmental protection and to do it cost
          effectively.

International

          Antarctica Stream Hydrology -- maintains and distributes
          information pertaining to the rivers and streams of the
          Antarctic continent. Current contributers to this effort include
          the United States Antarctic Research Program, and the New
          Zealand Antarctic Research Program.

          Global Drainage Basins Database -- Currently at the EROS Data
          Center, UNEP, NASA, and the USGS are developing continental
          drainage basins from the 30 arc second (~1-km) digital elevation
          models (DEM). The goals of the project are two-fold. The first
          goal is to produce the most realistic, verified drainage basins
          from the DEM. The second goal is to compare the drainage areas
          from the 30 arec second (~1-km) source to existing basin
          sources. A comparitive analysis of what drainage source produces
          the best physical boundary will benefit researchers, scientists,
          and individuals that use hydrological feature data for modeling,
          calculating, and assessing environmental problems.

   |Water| |Data| |Pubs & Products| |Tech Resources| |Programs| |Place|
   |Connections.| |Help!|


   U.S. Department of the Interior, U.S. Geological Survey
   Maintainer: Water Webserver Team
   Last update: 14:56:34 Tue 22 Jan 2002
   Privacy Statement || Disclaimer || Accessibility
   URL: http://water.usgs.gov/wrd001.html FirstGov, 'Your First Click to
   the U. S. Government'
