http://www.abag.ca.gov/planning/baasd/

                Bay Area Alliance for Sustainable Development
          ________________________________________________________

                                Organization

   The Association of Bay Area Governments (ABAG) represents the interests
    of local and regional government on the Steering Committee of the Bay
      Area Alliance for Sustainable Development (Bay Area Alliance), a
       multi-stakeholder coalition established in 1997 to develop and
    implement an action plan that will lead to a more sustainable region.
     The Bay Area Alliance provides a unique and valuable forum in which
   government leaders at all levels and representatives of the Three Es of
      Sustainable Development (Three Es) - prosperous economy, quality
       environment, and social equity - come together to address major
                            regional challenges.

                             Steering Committee

      In addition to ABAG President William Carroll, the members of the
    Steering Committee are: Carl Anthony, Executive Director of the Urban
    Habitat Program (representing social equity), Robert L. Harris, Vice
     President Environmental Affairs of Pacific Gas and Electric Company
      (representing economy), Sunne Wright McPeak, President and Chief
   Executive Officer of the Bay Area Council (representing business), and
      Michele Perrault, International Vice President of the Sierra Club
                         (representing environment).

                            Member Organizations

   The members of the Bay Area Alliance are constituency-based public and
     private sector organizations that represent the perspectives of the
    Three Es and government as well as the civic, philanthropic and faith
                                communities.

                                   Vision

           The Bay Area Alliance has adopted the following vision:

     "We envision a Bay Area where the natural environment is vibrant,
     healthy and safe; where the economy is robust and globally
     competitive and where all citizens have equitable opportunities to
     share in the benefits of a quality environment and prosperous
     economy."

                  Draft Compact for a Sustainable Bay Area

   The Bay Area Alliance has worked with more than 200 public and private
    sector stakeholders to develop a Draft Compact for a Sustainable Bay
    Area (Draft Compact). The Draft Compact is an action plan intended to
    guide government, businesses, civic organizations and individuals in
          cooperative efforts to sustain and enhance the Bay Area's
     environmental, economic and social qualities for current and future
   generations. It is also a commitment by participating organizations to
   act now and over the next quarter century to put the Bay Area on a more
                              sustainable path.

                          Ten Commitments to Action

     The following Ten Commitments to Action are the centerpiece of the
                               Draft Compact:
    1. Enable a diversified, sustainable and competitive economy to
       continue to prosper and provide jobs in order to achieve a high
       quality of life for all Bay Area residents.
    2. Accommodate sufficient housing affordable to all income levels
       within the Bay Area to match population increases and job
       generation.
    3. Target transportation investment to achieve a world-class
       comprehensive, integrated and balanced multi-modal system that
       supports efficient land use and decreases dependency on
       single-occupancy vehicle trips.
    4. Preserve and restore the region's natural assets, including San
       Francisco Bay, farmland, open space, other habitats, and air and
       water quality.
    5. Use resources efficiently, eliminate pollution and significantly
       reduce waste.
    6. Focus investment to preserve and revitalize neighborhoods.
    7. Provide all residents with the opportunity for quality education
       and lifelong learning to help them meet their highest aspirations.
    8. Promote healthy and safe communities.
    9. Implement local government fiscal reforms and revenue sharing.
   10. Stimulate civic engagement.

           Sustainable Development: What's in it for the Bay Area?

        The Draft Compact contains recommendations for each of the 10
      commitments. As described in the Bay Area Alliance's environment,
    equity, economy and government perspectives, the proposed strategies
       and actions address some of the most difficult and intractable
   conditions affecting the region. Collaborative implementation of these
    measures can support public decision makers in their efforts to work
       with all stakeholders to find effective and lasting solutions.

                                Public Review

     The Bay Area Alliance initially presented the Draft Compact to the
    Association of Bay Area Governments (ABAG) General Assembly in April
      1999, and surveyed participants on the ten commitments (view the
     results). Since then, the Draft Compact has been revised to reflect
   input received from ABAG, other member organizations and stakeholders,
                           and other participants.

      The Draft Compact is now ready for broader review. Over the next
    several months, the Bay Area Alliance will seek feedback on the Draft
   Compact through meetings in each county, media outreach, and a feedback
      questionnaire on its website. The input received will be used to
      enhance the Draft Compact before submitting it to the members for
                        approval and implementation.

                              Related Projects

                     Partnership for Regional Livability

   The Bay Area region and the Bay Area Alliance are one of four regional
     pilots in the nation by the Partnership for Regional Livability, a
      consortium of major foundations and federal agencies dedicated to
    advancing sustainable development and smart growth. Two projects with
     tremendous potential for implementing key commitments in the Draft
    Compact for a Sustainable Bay Area have been initiated: the Regional
    Livability Footprint and the Community Capital Investment Initiative.

                    Regional Livability Footprint Project

     The Bay Area Alliance has launched a Regional Livability Footprint
   Project to facilitate regional consensus on how the "Ten Commitments to
        Action" in the Draft Compact relate to land use. The Regional
     Livability Footprint Project is being coordinated with the Regional
     Agencies Smart Growth Initiative to develop an "alternative growth
     scenario" for the Bay Area. Using a number of indicators (currently
   being developed), the alternative growth scenario will be compared with
   the current-trends projections that ABAG produces every two years. The
    projections are used in developing transportation and other regional
                                   plans.

      There will be an extensive public participation process to reach
      regional consensus and generate support for a Regional Livability
    Footprint - a preferred land use pattern that will inform how the Bay
    Area could grow smarter and more sustainably over the next 20 years.
    For more information on how you can get involved, please contact the
                   Bay Area Alliance at (510) 464-7978 or
                      FootprintBAA@BayAreaAlliance.org.

                   Community Capital Investment Initiative

    A high-priority implementation strategy for the Bay Area Alliance is
       the Community Capital Investment Initiative to attract private
      investment into the poorest neighborhoods in partnership with the
    community. The Community Capital Investment Initiative is intended to
    simultaneously tackle poverty with market-based solutions and promote
    smart growth. Work on this Initiative will provide valuable real-time
     information and practical lessons on the potential for infill, land
        recycling, and neighborhood revitalization as strategies for
     sustainable development. For more information, contact the Bay Area
                  Alliance at CCIIBAA@BayAreaAlliance.org.

                  Regional Agencies Smart Growth Initiative

   In April 2000, the Bay Area Alliance received a Sustainable Development
   Challenge Grant from the United States Environmental Protection Agency
   to participate in the development of a sustainable growth strategy for
    the region. The project seeks to engage decisionmakers and the public
      in a constructive dialogue about "smart growth" land use patterns
     intended to use land more efficiently, optimize transportation and
   other infrastructure investments, preserve open space and agricultural
     land, and address other sustainability objectives identified in the
      Draft Compact. The Bay Area Alliance is coordinating its Regional
    Livability Footprint Project with the Regional Agencies Smart Growth
   Initiative, creating a single public outreach program. The goal of the
    joint project is to develop and build support for the adoption of an
      alternative set of population projections based on "smart growth"
       principles. If adopted, the "smart growth" alternative has the
   potential to influence the Regional Transportation Plan and local land
      use plans in ways that will ultimately put the Bay Area on a more
      sustainable path. For more information, contact Victoria Eisen at
                   510/464-7960 or victoriae@abag.ca.gov.

   Back to Our Home Page Back to Regional Planning Search Our Site Drop Us
                                   a Line
                Copyright © 2000 ABAG. All rights reserved.
                                atp 09/15/00
