http://www.adp.ca.gov/PDF/posthearingchanges.pdf

   STATE OF CALIFORNIA- HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES AGENCY GRAY DAVIS,
   Governor DEPARTMENT OF ALCOHOL AND DRUG PROGRAMS 1700 K STREET
   SACRAMENTO, CA 95814-4037 TDD (916) 327-4742 February 1, 2002 PUBLIC
   AVAILABILITY OF ADDITIONAL CHANGES TO PROPOSED REGULATIONS FOR DRIVING
   UNDER THE INFLUENCE PROGRAMS Chapter 3, Division 4, Title 9 of the
   California Code of Regulations The Department of Alcohol and Drug
   Programs is making additional changes to proposed driving under the
   influence (DUI) program regulations which were last made available for
   45-day public comment on June 22, 2001. The additional changes are
   based on the public comments received. Those changes are noted in bold
   type. Any interested person may submit written testimony, regarding the
   enclosed additional changes, to the Department by 5 p.m. February 17,
   2002, which is the close of the extended public comment period. Please
   limit your testimony to the enclosed additional changes shown in bold
   type. At this time the Department will not consider changes to any
   other regulations. Please send your written comments to: Mary Conway
   Department of Alcohol and Drug Programs 1700 K Street Sacramento, CA
   95814 Please call Mary Conway 916 327-4742, if you have any questions
   regarding this notice. If you have questions regarding the policy
   contained in these additional changes, please call Roger Thompson,
   Acting Manager of the Driving Under the Influence Program, at (916)
   327-5693. Thank you. Enclosures Amendment of Driving under the
   Influence (DUI) Regulations Contained in Chapter 3, Division 4, Title
   9, California Code of Regulations COMBINED DUI REQUIREMENTS FOR SIX
   MONTH PROGRAMS, COMPLETION CERTIFICATES, USE OF INTERNS, INTERPROGRAM
   TRANSFERS, PROGRAM SOBRIETY, AND DISMISSAL OF PARTICIPANTS Text of
   Proposed Additional Regulatory Changes NOTE: Language to be added is
   shown in underline format; language to be repealed is shown in
   strikeout format. Additional changes made after the close of the 45-day
   public comment period are shown in bold type. AMEND TABLE OF CONTENTS
   AS SHOWN BELOW: Subchapter 1. General Administration 9795 Application
   and Purpose of Regulations 9800 Definitions 9801 State Responsibilities
   9801.5 County Responsibilities 9801.6 Drinking Driver Program
   Responsibilities Subchapter 2. Licensure of Drinking Driver Programs
   Article 1. Requirement for Licensure 9802 Requirement for Licensure
   Article 2. Initial License 9804 Content of Application 9808 Application
   Process 9810 County Review and Recommendation 9812 State Review and
   Approval 9816 Approval/Denial of Licensure 2 Article 3. License Renewal
   9820 Extension of Period of Licensure Article 4. License Fees Article
   5. Program Evaluation 9823 Types of Compliance Deficiencies 9824
   Issuance of Notice of Deficiency 9825 Development of Corrective Action
   Plan 9826 Follow-up to Verify Correction of Deficiencies Article 6.
   Corrective Action 9827 Assessment of Civil Penalties 9829 Unlicensed
   Programs 9830 Administrative Review 9834 Revocation of License 9836
   Licensure Appeals Article 7. Contingency Service Plan 9838 Contingency
   Service Plan Subchapter 3. Program Standards Article 1. General
   Standards 9846 Staff Qualifications and Function Article 2. Program
   Services 9848 Participant Enrollment 9849 Assessment of Participant's
   Alcohol or Drug Problem 9851 Program Services to be Provided 9852
   Educational Sessions 9854 Group Counseling Sessions 9856 Individual
   Counseling Sessions 9857 Additional Hours for First Offender Program
   9858 Face-To-Face Interviews 9860 Additional Requirements 9862 Referral
   to Ancillary Services 3 Article 3. Participant Records 9866
   Organization and Maintenance of Participant Records 9867 Notice of
   Completion Subchapter 4. Participant Standards 9874 Program Sobriety
   9876 Participant Attendance 9876.5 Leave of Absence 9878 Fees 9879
   Financial Assessment to Determine Participant's Ability to Pay Program
   Fees 9884 Interprogram Transfer 9886 Dismissal of Participants 4 AMEND
   SECTION 9800 AS SHOWN BELOW: § 9800. Definitions. (a) The following
   definitions shall apply to terminology used in Chapter 3. Terms not
   defined below may be found in Section 9000, Article 1, Chapter 1, of
   this Division, or in individual sections of this Chapter if not used
   elsewhere. (1) Additional Fee. "Additional fee" means a an approved
   fee, approved in accordance with the provisions of Section 9878,
   charged to the participant by the program to recover the cost of any
   administrative service (such as rescheduling program services,
   reinstating participants following dismissal, processing transfers to
   other programs, etc.) provided by the program in addition to program
   services required in accordance with Article 2 (commencing with Section
   9848), Subchapter 3 of this Chapter. NECESSITY: Needed to clarify how
   the fee is approved (2) Abstinence. "Abstinence" means the total,
   round-the-clock avoidance of the use of alcohol and/or illicit drugs
   through ingestion, inhalation, injection, or other means of intake. (3)
   Additional County Requirements. "Additional county requirements" are
   those requirements a county selects to include as part of the drinking
   driver DUI program requirements for that county, which exceed the
   program services required in Article 2 (commencing with Section 9848),
   Subchapter 3 of this Chapter. (4) Ancillary Services. "Ancillary
   services" are those additional services to which the drinking driver
   program may refer the participant on a voluntary basis. Such services
   may include, but need not be limited to, detoxification services,
   recovery services, treatment services, or family counseling. (5) Days.
   "Days" means calendar days, unless otherwise specified. (6)
   Driving-Under-the-Influence Program Drinking Driver Program, or
   Program. "Driving-Under-the-Influence Program" "Drinking driver
   program" DUI program or "program" or "licensee" means a firm,
   partnership, association, corporation, or local governmental agency,
   which has been recommended by the county board of supervisors and 5
   subsequently licensed by the Department, in accordance with this
   Chapter, to provide alcohol and other drug education and counseling
   services to anyone: (A) Whose license to drive has been
   administratively suspended or revoked in accordance with Section
   13353.2 of the Vehicle Code; (B) Who has been convicted for violating
   Sections 23103.5. 23152 or 23153 of the Vehicle Code; or (C) Who has
   been convicted for operating a vessel, water skis, aquaplane, or
   similar device in violation of Section 655(b), (c), (d), (e), or (f) of
   the Harbors and Navigation Code. (7) Driving-Under-the-Influence.
   "Driving-under-the-influence", or "DUI" , for purposes of this Chapter
   means: (A) Driving a motor vehicle in violation of Sections 23103.5,
   23140, 23152 and 23153 of the Vehicle Code; or (B) Operating a vessel,
   water skis, aquaplane, or similar device in violation of Section
   655(b), (c), (d), (e), or (f) of the Harbors and Navigation Code. (8)
   Educational Session. "Educational session" means instruction and
   information presented in a facilitated group classroom setting. (9)
   Face-to-Face Interview. "Face-to-face interview" means a private,
   facilitated, individual discussion to monitor the participant's
   progress in the program, to identify problems which may be barriers to
   program completion, and to refer the participant to ancillary services
   when appropriate, based upon the participant's needs. (10) Facilitated.
   "Facilitated" means directed or conducted by program staff (e.g., a
   facilitated discussion would be a discussion directed or conducted by
   program staff). (11) Final Approval. "Final approval" means
   Departmental approval for licensure of a drinking driver DUI program
   when the licensee has met all of the licensing standards contained in
   this Chapter. (12) First Offender. "First offender" means an individual
   whose license to drive has been administratively suspended or revoked
   for, or who has been convicted of, driving-under-the-influence, and the
   offense did not occur within seven (7) years of: 6 (A) Another
   driving-under-the-influence offense, (B) A violation of Section 23103
   (as specified in Section 23103.5) of the Vehicle Code, or (C) A
   violation of Section 191.5 or Section 192(c)(3) of the Penal Code. (13)
   First Offender with Court-Ordered Duration of Participation. First
   offender with court-ordered duration of participation or enhanced first
   offender means a person convicted of a first offense of
   driving-under-the-influence who has been ordered by the court to attend
   a DUI program for a minimum of 6 months (rather than 3 months), in
   accordance with Health and Safety Code Section 11837(c). (13)(14)Fiscal
   Year. "Fiscal year" means the 12-month period beginning on July 1 and
   ending on June 30 of the following year. (14)(15)Group Counseling
   Session. "Group counseling session" means a facilitated group meeting
   in which participants meet to exchange ideas, to discuss their own
   behavior and attitudes, and to support and encourage positive changes
   in each other's lifestyle to facilitate resolution of problems related
   to the use of alcohol and other drugs. (15)(16)Illicit Drug. "Illicit
   Drug" means any substance defined as a drug in Section 11014, Chapter
   1, Division 10, Health and Safety Code, except: (A) Drugs or
   medications prescribed by a physician or other person authorized to
   prescribe drugs, in accordance with Section 4036, Chapter 9, Division
   2, Business and Professions Code, and used in the dosage and frequency
   prescribed; or (B) Over-the-counter drugs or medications used in the
   dosage and frequency described on the box, bottle, or package insert.
   (16)(17)Individual Counseling Session. "Individual counseling session"
   means a meeting in which a participant and a program staff member
   interact on an individual basis or through an interpreter to discuss
   the participant's behavior and attitudes and to support and encourage
   positive changes in the participant's lifestyle to facilitate
   resolution of problems related to the use of alcohol and other drugs.
   (17)(18)Month. "Month" means the period of time from a specific date in
   one calendar month to the corresponding date in the following calendar
   month. 7 (18)(19)Multiple Offender. "Multiple offender" means an
   individual whose license to drive has been administratively suspended
   or revoked for, or who has been convicted of
   driving-under-the-influence and the offense occurred within seven (7)
   years of: (A) Another driving-under-the-influence offense, (B) A
   violation of Section 23103 (as specified in Section 23103.5) of the
   Vehicle Code, or (C) A violation of Section 191.5 or Section 192(c)(3)
   of the Penal Code. (19)(20)Participant. "Participant" means any person
   participating in a drinking driver DUI program. The term "participant"
   is used generically throughout this Chapter wherever standards apply to
   both the first offender and the multiple offender. (20)(21)Profit.
   "Profit" means the return received on a business undertaking after all
   operating expenses have been met, as allowed in normal accounting
   procedures, which accrues to entrepreneurs as compensation for the
   assumption of risk in business. (21)(22)Program Fee. "Program fee"
   means a fee charged to the participant by the program for program
   services required in accordance with Article 2 (commencing with Section
   9848), Subchapter 3 of this Chapter. (22)(23)Program Services. "Program
   services" means all services, which the program is required to provide
   to the participant, in accordance with Article 2 (commencing with
   Section 9848), Subchapter 3 of this Chapter. Required program services
   include participant enrollment (Section 9848), assessment of the
   participant's alcohol or other drug problem (Section 9849), educational
   sessions (Section 9852), group counseling sessions (Section 9854),
   individual counseling (Section 9856), and face-to-face interviews
   (Section 9858). (24) Provisional Approval. "Provisional approval" means
   temporary approval for licensure of a drinking driver program given by
   the Department for a period not to exceed six months, pending final
   approval by the Department. (25) Standardized Payment Schedule.
   "Standardized payment schedule" means a document, in accordance with
   the requirements of Subsection 9878(d), which: (A) Describes how the
   program assesses the program fee and additional fees; 8 (B) Lists the
   amount of the program fee and additional fees charged by the program,
   the amount of down payment required, the amount and frequency of
   payments, and the income levels at which the program will allow the
   participant to pay a maximum fee of no more than $5.00 per month, to
   pay a reduced program fee, or to extend payments, in accordance with
   the provisions of Section 9878; and (C) Contains a sample of the
   participant contract and all forms used by the program to determine the
   program fee, additional fees, down payment, and payment schedule. (26)
   Surplus. "Surplus" means the difference between revenues and operating
   expenses in a nonprofit corporation or public agency. (27) Unit of
   Service. "Unit of service" means each service the program is required
   to provide pursuant to Article 2 (commencing with Section 9848),
   Subchapter 3 of this Chapter (e.g. enrollment, alcohol or drug
   assessment, educational or counseling session, face-to-face interview,
   etc). NOTE: Authority cited: Section 11836.15, Health and Safety Code;
   Reference: Sections 11836, 11836.15, 11837, and 11837.4, Health and
   Safety Code, and Sections 23161, 23181, and 23200, Vehicle Code. 9
   AMEND SECTION 9846 AS SHOWN BELOW: § 9846. Staff Qualifications and
   Function. (a) The drinking driver DUI program administrator shall have
   the following minimum experience and/or education: (1) Two years of
   experience providing alcohol and/or other drug treatment or recovery
   services, (2) One year of experience supervising personnel, and (3) One
   year of experience managing an accounting system, or preparing or
   directing the preparation of budgets or cost reports. Satisfactory
   completion of two college-level courses in accounting may be
   substituted for the one year of experience required in this subsection.
   As used in this regulation, "satisfactory completion" means attainment
   of a grade "C" or better. (b) Program staff who conduct individual or
   group counseling sessions, intake interviews, face-to-face interviews,
   or assessments of participants' alcohol and/or other drug problems
   shall have a minimum of two years of experience in providing counseling
   services to persons with alcohol and/or other drug problems. (c)
   Program staff who conduct educational sessions shall have a minimum of
   two years of experience in providing alcohol and/or drug education and
   information in group sessions to persons with alcohol and/or other drug
   problems in a classroom setting. (d) Volunteers and/or interns may
   assist in conducting educational sessions, group counseling sessions,
   intake interviews, face-to-face interviews, or assessments of alcohol
   and/or other drug problems. (1) Volunteers and/or interns shall be
   under the direct supervision of a staff member who meets the
   requirements of Subsections (b) and (c) of this regulation. (2)
   Volunteers and/or interns shall not provide services unless the
   supervising staff member is present in the room during the provision of
   services. (e) The program may employ interns to conduct educational
   sessions, individual or group counseling sessions, intake interviews,
   face-to-face interviews, or assessments of alcohol and/or other drug
   problems. Prior to employing interns, the licensee shall provide the
   Department with a description of its intern program, which shall comply
   with following requirements: (1) Interns may not comprise more than
   twenty percent of the program's 10 counseling staff. (2) The licensee
   shall designate a staff member who meets the requirements of subsection
   (a)(2), (b) and (c) of this regulation as the coordinator of its intern
   program. (3) Interns must have completed a minimum of one semester,
   including at least nine post-secondary semester units, at an alcohol
   and drug studies program at an accredited institution. The institution
   must have been accredited by an institution that has been approved by
   the State of California Bureau for Private Post Secondary and
   Vocational Education or that has been accredited by an accrediting
   agency recognized by the United States Department of Education. The
   licensee shall maintain in the intern's personnel record a copy of the
   intern's transcript verifying completion of the required units.
   NECESSITY: Non-substantive changes needed to improve clarity. (4) Prior
   to conducting services without direct supervision, each intern shall
   observe at least three hours of face-to-face interviews, 12 hours of
   educational classes, and 20 hours of group counseling sessions
   conducted by staff who meet the requirements of (b) and (c) of this
   regulation. The licensee shall document the sessions in the intern's
   personnel record. (5) The intern coordinator shall provide individual
   progress reviews with each intern on a weekly basis as long as the
   intern is employed as an intern or until the intern meets the
   requirements of (b) and (c) of this section. The licensee shall
   document individual progress reviews in the intern's personnel record.
   (6) Administration and associated costs of interns may be allocated
   over as many alcohol and drug treatment programs within a given agency
   as use interns, based on the number of interns used by each program.
   NECESSITY: Needed to allow licensees that share interns with other
   programs to share costs proportionately among the other programs (e)(f)
   One year of college-level education, which includes the satisfactory
   completion of at least 12 semester units or the equivalent of alcohol
   and drug studies, psychology, counseling, social work, or a related
   field, may be substituted for one year of the experience required in
   Subsection (a)(1), (b), or (c) of this regulation. As used in this
   regulation, "one year of college-level education" means satisfactory
   completion of a minimum of 24 semester units or the equivalent of
   classroom instruction provided by an accredited or approved, public or
   private, post-secondary institution 11 of higher learning. (f)(g) As
   used in this regulation, "one year of experience" means 1,776 total
   hours of full or part time, compensated or uncompensated, work
   experience. (g)(h) Program staff that conduct face-to-face, counseling
   or educational sessions shall attend six hours of training per year
   related to provision of alcohol and/or drug program services, detection
   of alcohol and drug use, identification and referral of co-occurring
   disorders, etc., as determined by the licensee. (h)(i) The licensee
   shall maintain personnel records for all staff, including drinking
   driver DUI program administrators, containing: (1) Name, address,
   telephone number, position, duties, and date of employment; and (2)
   Resumes, applications, and/or transcripts documenting work experience
   and education used to meet the requirements of this regulation. NOTE:
   Authority cited: Sections 11755 and 11836.15, Health and Safety Code.
   Reference: Section 11836.15, Health and Safety Code. 12 ADOPT SECTION
   9851 AS SHOWN BELOW: § 9851. Program Services to be Provided (a) The
   licensee shall require a participant enrolled in a program pursuant to
   Vehicle Code Section 23103.5 (e) or 23140 to complete 12 hours of
   educational sessions, provided in accordance with Section 9852. (b) The
   licensee shall require a participant enrolled in a three-month first
   offender program to complete the following: (1) Twelve hours of
   educational sessions, provided in accordance with Section 9852. (2) Ten
   hours of group counseling sessions, provided in accordance with Section
   9854. (3) Eight additional hours of program services, consisting of
   educational sessions, group counseling sessions, or a combination of
   the two, at the option of the licensee and as approved by the county
   alcohol program administrator. (4) A minimum of three face-to-face
   interviews, provided in accordance with Section 9858. The licensee
   shall conduct one face-to-face interview at the beginning, the
   mid-point, and the end of the program. The final face-to-face interview
   shall serve as the exit interview. At the licensee's option, more than
   three face-to-face interviews may be provided so long as the
   participant is not charged for the additional face-to-face interviews.
   (5) Any additional county requirements approved in accordance with
   Section 9860. (c) The licensee shall require a first offender with
   court-ordered duration of participation to participate in the program
   for six months or longer as ordered by the court. During that time the
   licensee shall require the participant to complete the following: (1) A
   minimum of 12 hours of educational sessions, provided in accordance
   with Section 9852. (2) A minimum of 28 hours of group counseling
   sessions, provided in accordance with Section 9854. (3) A minimum of
   four face-to-face interviews, provided in accordance with Section 9858.
   The licensee shall conduct the first face-to-face interview at intake.
   The licensee shall conduct one face-to-face interview at the end of 13
   the second month, at the end of the fourth month, and at the end of the
   program. The final face-to-face interview shall serve as the exit
   interview. At the licensee's option, more face-to-face interviews may
   be provided so long as the licensee does not charge the participant for
   the additional face-to-face interviews. NECESITY: This language was
   only supposed to apply to the three- month program. It was removed
   because it conflicts with subsection (c)(4) immediately below. (4) Four
   additional hours of program services, consisting of educational
   sessions, group counseling sessions, face-to-face interviews or a
   combination of the three, at the option of the licensee and as approved
   by the county alcohol program administrator. (5) Any additional county
   requirements approved in accordance with Section 9860. (d) The licensee
   shall require a participant enrolled in an 18-month multiple offender
   program to complete the following: (1) During the first 12 months of
   participation in an 18-month program, the licensee shall require the
   participant to complete a core program phase consisting of: (A) Twelve
   hours of alcohol- and other drug-related educational sessions in
   accordance with Section 9852. (B) Fifty-two hours of group counseling
   sessions in accordance with Section 9854. (C) One face-to-face
   interview every other week from the initial date of enrollment through
   the first 12 months of participation, or until completion of the
   educational and group counseling sessions required in (d)(1)(A) and (B)
   immediately above. In either instance, the licensee shall require each
   participant to attend a minimum of 24 face to face interviews.
   Face-to-face interviews shall be provided in accordance with Section
   9858. If the participant takes longer than 12 months to complete the
   educational and group counseling sessions required in (d)(1)(A) and (B)
   the licensee may charge for any additional face-to-face interviews
   provided based on the approved unit of service fee for face-to-face
   interviews. (D) Any additional county requirements approved pursuant to
   Section 9860. 14 (2) During the last six months of participation in an
   18-month program, the licensee shall require the participant to
   complete a community re-entry phase, consisting of participation in
   self-help groups, employment, and other areas of self-improvement. (A)
   The licensee shall monitor the participant's progress during the
   community re-entry phase. (B) The licensee shall provide no more than
   six hours of monitoring. (C) The licensee shall not allow the
   participant to begin the community re- entry phase until the
   participant has completed the core program requirements specified in
   (d)(1) of this regulation. (e) The licensee shall require a participant
   enrolled in a 30-month multiple offender program to complete the
   following: (1) During the first 18 months of participation in a
   30-month program, the licensee shall require the participant to
   complete a core program consisting of: (A) A minimum of 12 hours of
   educational sessions, provided in accordance with Section 9852. (B) A
   minimum of 78 hours of group counseling sessions, provided in
   accordance with Section 9854. (C) One face-to-face interview provided
   every other week from the initial date of enrollment through the first
   18 months of participation, or until completion of the educational and
   group counseling sessions specified in (e)(1)(A) and (B) immediately
   above. In either instance, the licensee shall require each participant
   to attend a minimum of 39 face to face interviews Face-to-face
   interviews shall be conducted in accordance with Section 9858. The
   program may charge for additional face-to-face interviews based on the
   approved unit of service fee for face-to-face interviews. (D) Any
   additional county requirements approved pursuant to Section 9860. (3)
   During the last 12 months of participation in a 30-month program, the
   licensee shall monitor the participant's completion of community
   service activities pursuant to Health and Safety Code Section
   11837.4(b)(3). 15 NOTE: Authority cited: Section 11836.15, Health and
   Safety Code. Reference: Sections 11836.15, 11837, and 11837.4 Health
   and Safety Code. 16 AMEND SECTION 9852 AS SHOWN BELOW: § 9852.
   Educational Sessions (a) Drinking driver programs shall provide a
   minimum of 10 hours of educational sessions for each first offender and
   12 hours of educational sessions for each multiple offender. (b)(a)
   Educational sessions shall be no less than one hour and no more than
   two hours in length. Time allowed for breaks shall not be counted as
   part of the toward meeting the minimum time number of hours for
   educational sessions required in Subsection (a) of this regulation in
   accordance with Section 9851. (b) Program staff who conduct educational
   sessions shall meet the staff qualifications required in Section
   9846(c). (c) Educational sessions shall be informational in content and
   instructional in manner of presentation. Educational sessions may
   consist of lectures, seminars, films, audio tapes, written exercises,
   or any combination thereof. Educational sessions shall include
   information regarding the following topics: (1) The use and effects of
   alcohol and other drugs. (2) The nature of addiction to alcoholism and
   other drugs addiction. (3) Impairment of driving abilities, skills, and
   judgement resulting from due to consumption of alcohol or other drugs.
   (4) Alternatives to the abuse of alcohol and the use of illicit drugs,
   including discussion of how abstinence, additional county requirements,
   ancillary services, and participation in self-help groups, assist the
   participant to recognize the effects of chemical dependency and
   understand the recovery process. (5) The effects of alcohol or other
   drug use on the individual, the family, and society. (d) The drinking
   driver DUI program shall encourage participant discussion during
   educational sessions. (e) Educational sessions shall be no less than
   one hour and no more than two hours in length. (f)(e) Participants
   shall not attend more than one educational session per calendar day. 17
   (g) The licensee shall document attendance at educational sessions in
   each participant's case record. (h)(g) Each The licensee shall limit
   attendance at educational sessions shall be limited to a maximum of 35
   program participants. (i)(h) The licensee shall not allow outside
   persons, families, or friends, except interpreters consistent with the
   provisions of Part 2, Title 42 of the Code of Federal Regulations, to
   participate in educational sessions conducted for program participants.
   The program may provide additional educational sessions for family and
   friends of participants. (j)(i) The licensee shall require each
   participant to sign a roster at each educational session in order to
   verify attendance. The licensee shall maintain attendance rosters for
   each educational session. The sign-in roster for each educational
   session shall list the following information: (1) Date of the session,
   (2) Starting and ending time, (3) Topics presented or session number,
   (4) Printed and signed names of participants in attendance, and (5)
   Signature of the program staff who conducted the session. (j) The
   licensee shall document attendance at educational sessions in each
   participant's case record. (k) No credit shall be given for attendance
   unless the participant attended the entire educational session as
   scheduled. NOTE: Authority cited: Sections 11755 and 11836.15, Health
   and Safety Code. Reference: Sections 11836.15 and 11837.4, Health and
   Safety Code; and Sections 23161 and 23181, Vehicle Code. 18 AMEND
   SECTION 9854 AS SHOWN BELOW: § 9854. Group Counseling Sessions. (a)
   Each drinking driver program shall provide a minimum of 10 hours of
   group counseling sessions for first offenders and 52 hours of group
   counseling sessions for multiple offenders. (a) Group counseling
   sessions shall be no less than one hour and no more than two hours in
   length. (1) The program may substitute one hour of individual
   counseling sessions for every two hours of group counseling sessions if
   the participant is unable to participate in or benefit from group
   counseling sessions because of a language barrier, an emotional
   problem, or other difficulty. (2) Time allowed for breaks shall not be
   counted as part of the minimum time required for group counseling in
   Section 9851.. (b) Group counseling sessions shall be conducted by
   program staff in a manner that: (1) Encourages the participants to talk
   and share ideas and information in order to identify and resolve
   alcohol or drug related problems, (2) Provides an opportunity for
   participants to examine their own personal attitudes and behavior, and
   that (3) Provides support for positive changes in life style to
   facilitate reduction or elimination of alcohol or drug problems. (c)
   Group counseling sessions may emphasize a specific topic or may be less
   structured in nature. (d) The program licensee shall not use films or
   lectures to meet the minimum number of hours of group counseling
   sessions required in Section (a) 9851. (e) Except as noted in (1) and
   (2) below, group counseling sessions shall be limited to 15
   participants. (1) On an emergency basis, as defined in (2) below, 17
   participants may be included in group counseling sessions. The program
   shall not include more than 17 participants per group counseling
   sessions for any reason. (2) As used in this Subsection, "emergency"
   means a sudden, unexpected occurrence or set of circumstances which
   could not have been avoided, 19 prevented, or planned for by either the
   program or the participant. (3) Whenever a participant is added to a
   group counseling session on an emergency licensee shall document the
   nature of the emergency in the participant's case record and on the
   sign-in roster.. (f) Group counseling sessions shall not be open to
   participants' families, friends, or other persons who are not program
   participants or staff. (g) Drinking driver DUI programs may be
   innovative in developing additional group counseling sessions (e.g.,
   involving family and significant others) beyond the minimum
   requirements contained in this section. (h) The licensee shall require
   each participant to sign a roster at each group counseling session in
   order to verify attendance. The licensee shall maintain attendance
   rosters for all group counseling sessions. The attendance roster for
   each group counseling session shall list the following information: (1)
   Date of the session, (2) Starting and ending time, (3) Topics discussed
   or session number, (4) Written exercise to be conducted, if any, the
   purpose and desired outcome, and the amount of time allocated for
   participants to complete the exercise, (5) Printed and signed names of
   participants in attendance, and (6) Signature of the program staff who
   conducted the session. (i) The program licensee shall document
   attendance and participation, and progress at group counseling sessions
   in each participant's case record. (j) No credit shall be given for
   attendance unless the participant attended the entire group counseling
   session as scheduled. NOTE: Authority cited: Section 11836.15, Health
   and Safety Code; and Section 23161(b), Vehicle Code. Reference:
   Sections 11836.15 and 11837.4, Health and Safety Code; and Sections
   23161 and 23181, Vehicle Code. 20 AMEND SECTION 9856 AS SHOWN BELOW: §
   9856. Individual Counseling Sessions. (a) Each drinking driver program
   shall provide, or shall have the capability of referring to other
   alcohol programs, without additional charge to the participant,
   individual counseling services when the participant is not able to
   benefit from group counseling sessions (e.g., because of a language
   barrier or special problems which preclude group participation). (b)
   One hour of individual counseling may be substituted for two hours of
   group counseling under these circumstances. The reasons for individual
   counseling shall be documented in the participant's case record. (c)
   Participation and progress in individual counseling shall be documented
   in the participant's case record. (d) No credit for attendance shall be
   given unless the participant attended the entire individual counseling
   session as scheduled. NOTE: Authority cited: Sections 11755 and
   11836.15, Health and Safety Code. Reference: Sections 11836.15, and
   11837.4, Health and Safety Code. 21 REPEAL SECTION 9857 AS SHOWN BELOW:
   § 9857. Additional Hours for First Offender Programs. In addition to
   the ten minimum hours required for educational sessions, pursuant to
   Section 9852, and the ten minimum hours required for counseling
   sessions, pursuant to Section 9854, first offender programs shall
   provide ten additional hours of service. The ten additional hours shall
   be used for education or counseling, or for a combination of education
   or counseling, at the option of the program and the county alcohol
   administrator. NOTE: Authority cited: Section 11836.15, Health and
   Safety Code; and Section 23161(b), Vehicle Code. Reference: Sections
   23161 and 23181, Vehicle Code. 22 AMEND SECTION 9858 AS SHOWN BELOW: §
   9858. Face-To-Face Interviews. (a) Each program shall conduct private,
   face-to-face interviews with each participant to: (1) Monitor payment
   of fees, (2) Discuss and encourage participant attendance in
   educational sessions and counseling sessions, (3) Discuss and identify
   problems which may be barriers to program completion, including
   progress in group and other counseling sessions, and (4) Evaluate the
   participant's need for referral to ancillary services. (b) Programs
   shall conduct a minimum of three face-to-face interviews with each
   first offender. The program shall conduct one face-to-face interview at
   the commencement of participation, one at the midpoint, and one at the
   end of the program. (c) Programs shall conduct a minimum of one
   face-to-face interview every other week with each multiple offender.
   (d)(b) Face-to-face interviews shall be at least 15 minutes in length
   and shall be longer whenever the interviewer or the participant
   determines that additional time is needed. (e)(c) The program licensee
   shall conduct face-to-face interviews on a regularly scheduled basis,
   rather than on a drop-in basis. (1) For three month first offender
   programs, face-to-face interviews shall be conducted pursuant to
   Section 9851 (b)(4). (2) For six-month programs for first offenders
   with court ordered duration of participation, face-to-face interviews
   shall be conducted pursuant to Section 9851 (c)(3). (3) For 18-month
   multiple offender programs, the required number of face-to- face
   interviews, including make-ups, shall be conducted for the first 12
   months or until completion of the core program requirements. (4) For
   30-month multiple offender programs, the required face-to-face
   interviews, including make-ups, shall be conducted for the first 18
   months or 23 until completion of the core program requirements. (f)(d)
   Whenever possible, face-to-face interviews shall be conducted by the
   same interviewer for the duration of the program. (g)(e) The
   interviewer shall document the following information in each
   participant's record: (1) The date, time, and length of each
   face-to-face interview. and the issues discussed during the interview.
   (2) The counselor's assessment of the participant's progress regarding
   participation in program activities and any increased awareness in
   understanding his/her alcohol and/or drug related problems. For
   licensees that require participants to document their own progress at
   the end of group sessions, the licensee shall insure that program staff
   review and provide feedback to the participant. (f) No credit for
   attendance shall be given unless the participant attended the entire
   face-to-face interview as scheduled. (g) The program may only charge
   for additional face-to-face interviews as provided in Section 9851.
   Charges for additional face-to-face interviews shall be based on the
   approved unit of service fee for face-to-face interviews determined in
   accordance with Section 9878. NOTE: Authority cited: Section 11836.15,
   Health and Safety Code; and Section 23161(b), Vehicle Code. Reference:
   Sections 11836.15, 11837.4, and 11837.9, Health and Safety Code; and
   Sections 23161 and 23181, Vehicle Code. 24 AMEND SECTION 9867 AS SHOWN
   BELOW: § 9867. Notice of Completion. (a) When the licensee determines
   that a participant has completed all program services requirements and
   has paid all program fees, the licensee shall complete, by typewriter
   or by printing in ink, a Notice of Completion (Form DL 101, Revised 6-
   93). The Notice of Completion shall have a unique, pre-printed number,
   assigned by the Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV), and shall contain
   the following information: (1) The participant's name, address, birth
   date, and driver's license number; (2) The date the participant
   enrolled in the program; (3) The date the participant completed all
   program services; (4) The length and type of program completed; (5) The
   court case number or docket number (if applicable); (6) The name,
   primary business address, and Department's license number of the
   licensee issuing the Notice of Completion; and (7) A statement
   certifying that the information contained on the Notice of Completion
   is true and correct. (A) The statement shall be signed, under penalty
   of perjury, by the participant and by the program director or designee,
   who has been authorized in writing by the program director to sign the
   Notice of Completion. (B) If the program director authorizes a designee
   to sign Notices of Completion on his/her behalf, the licensee shall
   retain in its files a copy of the written authorization. (C) The Notice
   of Completion shall not be signed until the individual signing has
   verified that the participant has completed all program services and
   paid all program fees assessed in accordance with Section 9878. (8) The
   licensee may charge a fee for issuing a Notice of Completion. The
   licensee may charge the amount established by the Department of Motor
   Vehicles. If there are additional costs for preparation, the licensee
   may 25 submit a request for a general program fee increase in
   accordance with Section 9878(c). (b) The licensee may withhold the
   Notice of Completion in accordance with Section 9878(h) until the
   participant has paid in full his/her assessed program fee and any
   additional fees. (c) The licensee shall maintain a program log, typed
   or printed in ink, to record the receipt, issuance, and/or other
   disposition of each numbered Notice of Completion. The log shall
   contain, at a minimum, the information listed in Subsection (g)(3) of
   this regulation. (d) If the licensee makes an error while completing
   the Notice of Completion, the licensee shall: (1) Write "VOID" in large
   letters across all copies of the Notice of Completion; (2) Store the
   voided copies of the Notice of Completion in sequential order in the
   program log; and (3) Note in the program log that the Notice of
   Completion was voided. (e) When the licensee receives a Notice of
   Completion that was damaged during manufacturing or shipping, the
   licensee shall: (1) Retain the first (i.e. court's copy) and third
   (i.e. provider's copy) of the Notice of Completion in numerical
   sequence in the original book of Notices of Completion issued by the
   Department of Motor Vehicles; (2) Submit to the Department of Motor
   Vehicles, with a written request for refund using the Application for
   Refund form (Form ADM 399, Revised 9-87), the original (i.e. DMV's
   copy) and second (i.e. participant's copy) of the Notice of Completion;
   and (3) Note in the program log that the Notice of Completion was
   damaged. (f) The licensee shall destroy voided Notices of Completion
   only after Department staff or county staff have reviewed the Notices
   of Completion during an on-site compliance review, and have authorized,
   in writing, their destruction. (1) The method of destruction shall
   render the voided Notices of Completion useless. (2) The written
   authorization for destruction shall contain the following information:
   26 (A) The program name and license number; (B) The date of review; (C)
   The period reviewed; (D) The printed numbers of Notices of Completion
   reviewed; (E) The printed numbers of voided Notices of Completion
   authorized for destruction; (F) The name, title, and signature of the
   Department or county staff person conducting the on-site compliance
   review; (G) The printed numbers of voided Notices of Completion
   destroyed; (H) The date of destruction; (I) The method of destruction;
   and (J) The name, title, and signature of program director. (3) The
   program shall retain the written authorization for destruction with the
   program log for four years from the date of destruction. (g) Within ten
   working days after the date that a participant completes all program
   services and has paid his/her assessed program fee and any additional
   fees, the licensee shall: (1) Issue the original and remaining copies
   of the Notice of Completion to the participant, with instructions to
   send one copy to the Department of Motor Vehicles and one copy to the
   court of conviction (if the participant was referred by the court and
   the court requires a copy); and (2) Retain one copy of the Notice of
   Completion in the participant's record; (3) At the time the Notice of
   Completion is issued to the participant, enter the following
   information into the program log in sequential order by printed Notice
   of Completion number: (A) The printed number of the Notice of
   Completion; (B) The name of the participant to whom the Notice of
   Completion was issued; 27 (C) The length and type of DUI program
   completed; (C)(D) The date the Notice of Completion was issued; (D)(E)
   The name of the program staff person who issued the Notice of
   Completion; (E)(F) The participant record identification number, if
   applicable. (h) If a Notice of Completion issued to a participant has
   been lost or destroyed, the licensee shall issue a duplicate Notice of
   Completion to the participant under the following circumstances: (1) A
   duplicate Notice of Completion shall be issued only by the licensee
   that issued the original Notice of Completion; (2) Before issuing the
   duplicate Notice of Completion, the licensee shall verify from its
   records that the participant actually completed all program services;
   (3) The licensee shall type or print the words "duplicate Notice of
   Completion" and the number of the original Notice of Completion on the
   top of all copies of the duplicate Notice of Completion; (4) The
   licensee may charge a fee for issuing a duplicate Notice of Completion.
   The licensee may charge the amount established by the Department of
   Motor Vehicles. If there are additional costs for preparation, the
   licensee may submit a request for a general program fee increase in
   accordance with Section 9878(c). (i) At the time the licensee receives
   a book of blank copies of the Notice of Completion from the Department
   of Motor Vehicles, the licensee shall record the sequential numbers of
   the certificates received and maintain that record in a separate
   location and secure the blank Notices of Completion and the record of
   blank certificates received in a locked desk, file, or cabinet which is
   not accessible to program participants. (j) The licensee shall issue
   Notices of Completion exclusively only to participants who have
   completed all program services requirements, including payment in full
   of all program fees, contained in Article 1 (commencing with Section
   9848), Subchapter 3 of this Chapter. (k) The licensee shall issue a
   Notice of Completion only for the type of program specified on the
   license issued by the Department. 28 (l) The licensee shall not sell or
   transfer Notices of Completion to another licensee or to any other
   entity. (m) If the licensee discovers that any blank Notices of
   Completion have been lost, stolen, or otherwise misplaced, by the close
   of business of the day following the date the licensee discovers the
   loss, the licensee shall report the loss in writing to the Forms
   Management Unit of the Department of Motor Vehicles and to local law
   enforcement authorities. (1) Within 30 days of the date the loss was
   reported, the licensee shall confirm the written report by submitting a
   follow-up written report, accompanied by a copy of the police or
   sheriff's department report, to the Forms Management Unit, MS G-202,
   Department of Motor Vehicles, Post Office Box 942382, Sacramento, CA
   94232-3820. (2) In its written report and program log the licensee
   shall identify: (A) The printed numbers of the lost, stolen, or
   misplaced Notices of Completion, and (B) The date the loss was
   discovered. (3) The licensee shall retain in its business records a
   copy of the written report and a copy of the police or sheriff's
   department report until Department staff or county staff have reviewed
   the reports during an on-site compliance review, and authorized in
   writing their destruction. (n) Within ten days of the date that the
   licensee ceases program operation or the date that the program's
   license is revoked, the licensee shall return to the Department of
   Motor Vehicles by certified mail its unused supply of blank Notices of
   Completion, with a written request for refund. (o) When a participant
   is eligible for a Notice of Completion, but the licensee ceases program
   operation or the program's license is revoked, and the program's
   records are transferred to the county, the county alcohol program
   administrator shall prepare a letter to the Department of Motor
   Vehicles, stating that the participant has completed all program
   services. (1) The letter shall take the place of a Notice of
   Completion; (2) The letter shall contain the following information: (A)
   The participant's name, address, birth date, and driver's license
   number; 29 (B) The date the participant enrolled in the program; (C)
   The date the participant completed all program services; (D) The name,
   primary business address, and Department's license number of the
   licensee which would have issued the Notice of Completion if the
   licensee were still in business; (C) The length and type of program
   completed; and (F) The court case number or docket number, if
   applicable. (p) If the licensee fails to account for all Notices of
   Completion, as set forth in (c), (d)(3), (g)(3), (i), (j), (k), (l), or
   (m) of this regulation, by 5 p.m. on the final day of the on-site
   monitoring visit, the Department shall assess a fine against the
   licensee of $150 per day up to a total of $5,000 for missing Notice of
   Completions. (1) The fine shall be effective immediately accrue from
   the last day of the onsite review until the missing certificates have
   been accounted for and shall be payable upon receipt of written notice
   from the Department. NECESSITY: Needed for clarity to establish a point
   in time when a fine would begin accruing. (2) The licensee may appeal
   the assessed fine as specified in Section 9830. (q) The licensee shall
   post a notice in a prominent location in the program reception area,
   informing program participants and staff that soliciting or accepting a
   bribe, or selling a Notice of Completion, is illegal and punishable by
   law. (r) The Department may initiate administrative action pursuant to
   Section 9834 to suspend or revoke the license of any licensee who is
   found responsible for the sale of a Notice of Completion or whose
   failure to exercise diligence to control, track, and document the
   issuance of a Notice of Completion has contributed to the sale of a
   Notice of Completion. The licensee may appeal such administrative
   action pursuant to Section 9836 and the provisions of Chapter 5
   (commencing with Section 11500), Part 1, Division 3, Title 2 of the
   Government Code. (s) To the extent possible, any appeal of a fine or
   civil penalty assessed pursuant to this regulation and an appeal of any
   related administrative action shall be joined in a single proceeding.
   NOTE:Authority cited: Sections 11755 and 11836.15, Health and Safety
   Code. 30 Reference: Sections 11836.15 and 11838.1, Health and Safety
   Code; and Section 13353.45 of the Vehicle Code. 31 ADOPT SECTION 9874
   AS SHOWN BELOW: § 9874. Program Sobriety (a) The licensee shall require
   program participants to maintain program sobriety. As used in this
   chapter, "program sobriety" means that participants shall not attend
   program services or activities or be on the program premises while
   under the influence of any amount of alcohol or drugs as defined in
   this regulation, or be convicted of a subsequent DUI offense while
   enrolled in a DUI program. NECESSITY: Needed to restore requirement
   that was contained in the original definition of program sobriety. (b)
   If two or more staff members observe that a participant is sleeping,
   disruptive, belligerent, or otherwise appears unable to pay attention
   and participate in program services or activities, or a participant
   smells of alcohol or any alcoholic beverage, the licensee shall
   determine whether the participant is under the influence of alcohol or
   drugs as specified below: in (c) and (d) of this regulation. NECESSITY:
   Need to clarify the process used to determine whether a participant has
   consumed alcohol. Comments from the public indicated the former
   language was confusing. (1) The licensee shall determine whether the
   participant is under the influence of alcohol by documenting their
   observations related to the symptoms noted in (b) above, or requiring
   the participant to submit to testing with a breathalyzer or other
   similar chemical screening device designed to measure alcohol on the
   breath. (A) The packaging for the screening device shall indicate
   approval for such use by the U.S. Department of Transportation. (B) If
   the screening device indicates an alcohol level higher than .01
   percent, the participant shall be determined to be under the influence
   of alcohol. NECESSITY: Moved to new (c) below to improve clarity. (2)
   Determine whether a participant is under the influence of drugs if two
   or more program staff observe a combination of appearance, behavior,
   and speech indicators. Such symptoms may include the following, as
   listed in Chapter 3 of the Driving under the Influence Enforcement
   Manual developed by the California Highway Patrol 32 (revised 1995):
   Constricted or dilated pupils; slurred or rapid speech; impaired
   coordination; body tremors; green coating on the tongue; paranoid
   hallucinations; muscle rigidity; confused, disordered, or dizzy
   appearance; agitated behavior; or lethargy, stupor, or blank stare. (A)
   The Driving under the Influence Enforcement Manual is available from
   the Publications Unit of the California Highway Patrol at 860
   Stillwater Road, West Sacramento, CA 95605-1649 (telephone
   916/375-2101). (B) Chapter 3 of the California Highway Patrol's Driving
   under the Influence Enforcement Manual (Revised August 1995) is hereby
   incorporated by reference. The Manual may be obtained by calling the
   Publications Unit of the California Highway Patrol at (916) 375-2101.
   NECESSITY: Moved to new (d) below to improve clarity. (c) The licensee
   shall determine whether the participant is under the influence of
   alcohol either by (1) or (2) below: (1) The licensee may require the
   participant to submit to testing with a breathalyzer or other similar
   chemical screening device designed to measure alcohol on the breath.
   (A) The packaging for the screening device shall indicate approval for
   such use by the U.S. Department of Transportation. (B) If the screening
   device indicates an alcohol level higher than .01 percent, the
   participant shall be determined to be under the influence of alcohol.
   (2) Two or more staff members may document in writing in the
   participant's program record that the participant is sleeping,
   disruptive, belligerent, or otherwise appears unable to pay attention
   and participate in program services or activities, or the participant
   smells of alcohol or any alcoholic beverage. (d) The licensee shall
   determine that the participant is under the influence of drugs if (two
   or more program staff document in writing in the participant's program
   record that they observed a combination of appearance, behavior, and
   speech indicators. Such symptoms may include the following, as listed
   33 in Chapter 3 of the Driving under the Influence Enforcement Manual
   developed by the California Highway Patrol (revised 1995): constricted
   or dilated pupils; slurred or rapid speech; impaired coordination; body
   34 tremors; green coating on the tongue; paranoid hallucinations;
   muscle rigidity; confused, disordered, or dizzy appearance; agitated
   behavior; or lethargy, stupor, or blank stare. (1) The Driving under
   the Influence Enforcement Manual is available from the Publications
   Unit of the California Highway Patrol at 860 Stillwater Road, West
   Sacramento, CA 95605-1649 (telephone 916/375-2101). (2) Chapter 3 of
   the California Highway Patrol's Driving under the Influence Enforcement
   Manual (Revised August 1995) is hereby incorporated by reference. The
   Manual may be obtained by calling the Publications Unit of the
   California Highway Patrol at (916) 375-2101. (c)(e) If the licensee
   determines that the participant is under the influence of drugs, as
   specified in (b)(2) (d) of this regulation, the licensee shall: (1)
   Advise the participant that he/she may obtain a drug test at his/her
   own expense in order to refute the determination of use of illicit
   drugs. The licensee shall accept the test results provided: (A) The
   drug screening test was conducted by a clinical laboratory licensed by
   the Department of Health Services pursuant to Section 1265 of the
   Business and Professions Code; (B) The drug screening test was
   conducted within 24 hours of the time that the licensee or his/her
   staff determined that the participant was under the influence of drugs.
   (2) Ask the participant to leave the program premises. (A) The licensee
   shall advise the participant not to drive him/herself home. (B) The
   licensee shall offer to call a friend or relative of the participant or
   a taxi cab (at the participant's expense) to drive the participant
   home. (3) Document in the participant's record how the licensee
   determined that the participant was under the influence of alcohol or
   drugs, including staff observations of the indicators listed in (d) of
   this regulation. 35 (d)(f) Except as specified in (e) (g)of this
   regulation, the licensee shall dismiss the participant pursuant to
   Section 9886 if the licensee determines that the participant has used
   alcohol or illicit drugs [based on the criteria contained in (b) of
   this regulation. (e)(g) The licensee shall not dismiss a participant
   from the program for using medication prescribed by a licensed
   physician and used in accordance with the prescription unless the
   participant is unable to participate in program services due to the
   effects of the medication (e.g. falling asleep, unable to pay
   attention, etc.). NOTE: Authority cited: Sections 11755 and 11836.15,
   Health and Safety Code. Reference: Sections 11837.1, 11837.3(d)(2), and
   11837.4, Health and Safety Code. 36 AMEND SECTION 9876 AS SHOWN BELOW:
   § 9876. Participant Attendance. (a) The program shall require each
   participant to attend all scheduled activities unless the participant
   has: (1) Contacted the program and arranged to attend an activity at an
   alternate time, or (2) Been granted an approved leave of absence,
   pursuant to Section 9876.5. (b) The program shall document all absences
   in the participant's record. (c) The program shall require each
   participant to make up all absences before issuing the participant a
   Notice of Completion (Department of Motor Vehicles Form DL 101). (d)
   The program may allow a participant to be absent from scheduled
   activities as specified below: (1) A participant required by the court
   pursuant to Vehicle Code Sections 23103.5(e) or 32140 to attend the
   educational component of a licensed program shall not be allowed more
   than two absences per period of enrollment. (1)(2) A participant of a
   first offender program shall not be allowed more than five total
   absences per period of enrollment; (2)(3) A first offender, who has
   been ordered by the court to participate in a multiple offender program
   for six months or longer, shall not be allowed more than seven absences
   per period of enrollment; (3) A first offender, who has been ordered by
   the court to participate in a multiple offender program for nine
   months, shall not be allowed more than eight absences per period of
   enrollment; (4) A first offender, who has been ordered by the court to
   participate in a multiple offender program for twelve months, shall not
   be allowed more than eight absences per period of enrollment; (5)(4) A
   participant of an 18-month multiple offender program shall not be
   allowed more than ten total absences per period of enrollment; and
   (6)(5) A participant of a 30-month multiple offender program shall not
   be allowed 37 more than fifteen total absences per period of
   enrollment. (6) In the event that the participant is absent from more
   than one program activity on the same day, the absences shall be
   counted as one absence. NECESSITY: To allow program flexibility. NOTE:
   Authority cited: Sections 11755 and 11836.15, Health and Safety Code.
   Reference: Sections 11836.15, and 11837.4, Health and Safety Code. 38
   AMEND SECTION 9884 AS SHOWN BELOW: § 9884. Interprogram Transfer. (a) A
   The licensee shall inform a participant, transferring to another
   drinking driver licensed DUI program that he/she shall enroll and
   attend a face-to-face interview, an educational session, or a group
   counseling session in the new program within 21 days from the date of
   transfer from the sending program. shall report to the receiving
   program within 14 days of cessation of services by the sending program.
   (b) The following requirements apply to inter-program transfers: (1)
   Written Aapproval of transfer shall be obtained from the county alcohol
   program administrators or their designees in both the sending and
   receiving counties. (2) Written Nnotice of transfer forms shall be
   provided on Department-approved forms on the Participant Transfer Form
   (New 06/00), which is hereby incorporated by reference, to the court of
   conviction and to the county alcohol program administrators or their
   designees in both the sending and receiving counties. NECESSITY: Needed
   to clarify how notice of transfer is to be provided. New form is
   attached at end of regulations. (3) The sending program shall provide
   the receiving program with a case written history for the transferee,
   indicating the number of program activities completed. Any additional
   program information relevant to the participant shall be sent under
   separate cover marked "confidential." (4) Both the sending and
   receiving drinking driver programs shall cooperate in providing
   uninterrupted continuity of biweekly individual interviews throughout
   the transfer. The receiving program shall not accept any transferee
   that cannot enroll and commence participation within 21 days following
   the date of last activity with sending program. (5) The receiving
   program shall notify the sending program and the court of the
   transferee's enrollment or non-enrollment in the receiving program. (6)
   The sending program shall notify the court of the transferee's
   enrollment or non-enrollment in the receiving program. (7) The sending
   program shall notify the Department of Motor Vehicles if the transferee
   does not enroll in the receiving program. 39 (8) The receiving program
   shall notify the court of the participant's completion of or dismissal
   from the program. NOTE: Authority cited: Sections 11755 and 11836.15,
   Health and Safety Code. Reference: Section 11837.2, Health and Safety
   Code. 40 AMEND SECTION 9886 AS SHOWN BELOW: § 9886. Dismissal of
   Participants. (a) The drinking driver program shall dismiss from the
   program any participant who: (1) Fails to participate in required
   program activities within 21 days of transfer to another drinking
   driver program licensed by the Department; (2) Fails to maintain
   program sobriety in accordance with Section 9874; (3) Fails to comply
   with drinking driver DUI program rules; (4) Fails to comply with
   additional county requirements which have been established by the
   county alcohol program administrator and approved by the Department in
   accordance with Section 9860; (5) Fails to obtain a leave of absence,
   in accordance with Section 9876.5, when the participant is unable to
   attend any scheduled program services for 21 days or longer; 41 (6)
   Exceeds the number of absences allowed in Section 9876(d), without a
   leave of absence approved in accordance with Section 9876.5; (7) Is
   physically or verbally abusive to program staff or other program
   participants; or (b) The program may dismiss a participant that who
   fails to pay his/her program fee assessed in accordance with the
   requirements of Section 9879 or fails to reschedule and attend a
   financial assessment interview in accordance with the provisions of
   Subsection 9879(j). However, the program shall not dismiss a
   participant, who has completed all required program services, for
   failure to pay program fees. (c) If the participant was attending the
   program as a condition of probation, the licensee shall notify the
   court that the participant was dismissed from the program. The licensee
   shall not reinstate the participant without the written consent of the
   court. If the participant is required to complete the program as a
   condition of driver's license reinstatement and the court neglects to
   order reinstatement, the program may reinstate the participant on a
   voluntary basis: (1) Within sixty (60) days of the date of the first or
   second dismissal, and (2) Within ninety (90) days of the date of third
   or subsequent dismissal. (d) If the participant is not on probation or
   attending a program in accordance with a court order, the licensee may
   reinstate the participant as shown below: (1) Thirty (30) days after
   the date of first dismissal, (2) Sixty (60) days after the date of
   second dismissal, and (3) Ninety (90) days after the date of third or
   subsequent dismissal. (e) The licensee may refuse to reinstate a
   participant if the participant was dismissed because he/she was
   physically or verbally abusive to program staff or other program
   participants. The licensee shall document in the participant's record
   the circumstances under which the participant was dismissed. (f) The
   licensee shall not give credit for services attended prior to dismissal
   if the participant has not been enrolled in a licensed program for a
   period of two years or longer. The licensee shall give credit if the
   participant provides documentation verifying that he/she was unable to
   enroll in a program due to active military duty, jail, or prolonged
   debilitating illness. for services attended prior to dismissal if: (1)
   The dismissal occurred less than two years prior to re-enrollment, and
   (2) The licensee who provided the services verifies in writing that the
   services were provided to the participant. NECESSSITY: Needed to
   clarify the criteria for giving credit for prior program attendance. 42
   NOTE: Authority cited: Sections 11755 and 11836.15, Health and Safety
   Code. Reference: Section 11837.1, Health and Safety Code; and Section
   13352.5 of the Vehicle Code. 43 Department of Alcohol and Drug Programs
   Driving-Under-the-Influence Program Branch NOTIFICATION OF TRANSFER TO
   A STATE-LICENSED PROGRAM FOR DRIVING-UNDER-THE-INFLUENCE (DUI)
   OFFENDERS INSTRUCTIONS: When a participant requests a transfer to
   another state-licensed DUI program, the sending program is to complete
   Sections 1 - 7, and the Participant Information Summary on the reverse,
   and forward to the receiving program. The receiving program shall
   complete Section 8 and return a copy of the form to the sending
   program, with a copy to the court of conviction, as confirmation of the
   participant's enrollment within 21 calendar days from the date of
   transfer from the sending program. 1. NAME OF PARTICIPANT (Last)
   (First) (Middle) 2. SENDING PROGRAM Name of Program DUI Program License
   Number Address Telephone 3. RECEIVING PROGRAM Name of Program DUI
   Program License Number Address Telephone 4. PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS
   COMPLETED Hours of Education Face-to-Face Interviews (Length ) Hours of
   Group Counseling Hours of Re-entry Activities 5. ADDITIONAL PROGRAM
   REQUIREMENTS (APRs) 1 No APR Requirement Program APRs Program APRs
   Completed Court-Ordered APRs Court-ordered APRs Completed (If the
   receiving DUI program has state-approved APRs, the participant will
   only be required to complete the APRs of the receiving program. APRs
   completed in the sending program shall be credited toward meeting the
   APR requirements of the receiving program.) 6. PARTICIPANT
   CERTIFICATION I certify that the terms and conditions of a transfer to
   another state-licensed DUI program have been explained to me and I
   agree to enroll in the program identified in Section 3 by . Signature
   of Participant Date 7. SENDING PROGRAM CERTIFICATION I certify that the
   terms and conditions of a transfer to another state-licensed DUI
   program have been explained to the participant and the participant
   acknowledges receipt of the information. Signature and Title of Program
   Representative Date 8. CONFIRMATION OF TRANSFER BY RECEIVING PROGRAM I
   certify that the above-named DUI program participant 1 1 enrolled on .
   1 1 DID NOT enroll by the date specified in Section 6. Signature and
   Title of Program Representative Date G:\GROUPS2\WEB\InterNET\IN
   PROGRESS\Posthearing Changes.doc (Revised 06/00) Distribution: Original
   - Receiving Program File. Copies: Sending Program; Court of Conviction;
   County Alcohol 44 Program Administrator in sending and receiving
   counties; Participant. PARTICIPANT INFORMATION SUMMARY 1. Program Level
   1 Wet & Reckless 1 First Offender 1 First Offender Sentenced by Court
   to Complete (check one) 1 12-Month Multiple Offender 1 18-Month
   Multiple Offender 1 30-Month Multiple Offender 1 6 Months 1 9 Months 1
   12 Months 2. Enrollment Date 3. Total Participation Time (Excluding
   time on leave of (Month) (Day) (Year) absence or dismissal from
   program.) | | | | | | | | | | | Calendar Months | | Weeks 4. Total
   Number of Absences from Program_____ 5. Dismissal From Program (if
   applicable) * Date of Dismissal: * Date of Reinstatement: Reason: *
   Date of Dismissal: * Date of Reinstatement: Reason: 6. Leave of Absence
   From Program (if applicable) * Beginning Date: * Ending Date: Reason: *
   Beginning Date: * Ending Date: Reason: 7. Court of Conviction (Name,
   address) 8. Court Docket Number or Other Identifier 9. Driver's License
   Number 10. Probation 11. Alcohol Assessment 1 Yes 1 No Date Conducted:
   _____/_____/_____ 1 Formal 1 Summary 1 None Copy Attached: 1 Yes 1 No
   If no copy attached, please indicate results: 12. Additional
   Information/Comments 14. Participant's Mailing Address (a) Blood
   Alcohol Content (b) Refund due (c) Balance owed 13. Client did not
   reinstate at sending program. Receiving program will need: Home phone (
   ) _____ Current court docket with same case number as above. Work phone
   ( ) _____ Provide DMV with DL104A G:\GROUPS2\WEB\InterNET\IN
   PROGRESS\Posthearing Changes.doc (Revised 06/00) 45
