http://www.ecy.wa.gov/programs/hwtr/index.html

   [USEMAP:awlogosm.gif] [USEMAP:mt_r_banner_text.jpg]

   Ecology Home
   About Ecology
   Directory
   Public Events
   Laws and Rules
   Publications
   Public Records
   spacer
   Environmental Info.
   spacer
   Services
   spacer
   spacer
   Programs
   Air Quality
   Env. Assessment
   Hazardous Waste
   Nuclear Waste
   Shorelands
   Solid Waste
   Spills
   Toxics Cleanup
   Water Quality
   Water Resources
   spacer
   spacer
   Contracting
   Jobs
   Other Links

   Search Contact Us [LINK]-E-Mail Lists [LINK]-Site Information


   Program Mission: Foster Sustainability, Prevent Pollution and Ensure Safe
   Waste Management  Overview of the HWTR program

   Tier Two - Emergency and Hazardous Chemical Inventory Reports are Due
   March 1st. Streamline your reporting with EPCRAMAIL: Now available in a
   Runtime version and Access 2000 and Access 97.
   Tier Two Reporting   Form (pdf) Instructions
   Updated! The Local Emergency Planning Committee List for Washington
   State.
   Annual Dangerous Waste Reporting books for 2001 are now available
   online
   Updated TurboWaste Software
   Boeing Everett Permit.  On December 12, 2001, the Department of Ecology
   and the US Environmental Protection Agency issued draft permits to The
   Boeing Company to operate a hazardous waste storage facility at its
   Everett Plant in Everett, Washington. Comments on the draft permit are
   due February 11, 2002.
   Register NOW! for the Dangerous Waste Management Workshops. The
   workshops cover proper hazardous waste management and compliance
   requirements with the State Dangerous Waste Regulations. Geared toward
   generators of all sizes the workshops incorporate presentations
   interwoven with small group exercises, discussions, and question-and
   answer sessions. Come and get all your questions answered in a casual,
   friendly atmosphere.
   The Autumn Issue of  ShoptalkOnline Is now available. Topics in this
   issue are: Winners of the 2001 Governors Award, lower reporting
   requirements for lead, several new online services available and much
   more. The printed version and back issues are still available.
   Regulatory Information & Assistance. Information compiled to answer
   common questions about hazardous waste regulation in Washington.
   Questions about waste designation, management, treatment/disposal, and
   required record keeping are all addressed. Detailed information is
   provided for common types of waste (e.g., oil, batteries, etc.) and
   some specific types of industry (auto repair, printing, etc.). The
   Dangerous Waste Regulations (WAC 173-303) are also available at this
   site in a convenient hyperlinked format.
   The Toxic Release Inventory Display System (TRIDS) program download. A
   fun and informative way to view the Toxic Release Inventory Data
   submitted under the Community Right-To-Know Act.
   The final Environmental Performance Partnership Agreement (PPA)
   documents contractual commitments between the Washington Department of
   Ecology (Ecology) and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
   The proposal includes activities of the water, waste and air programs
   of Ecology and EPA for the period from July 1, 2001 to June 30, 2003.
   (Open Document)
   Online Hazardous Waste Services Directory - Information on hazardous
   waste management firms and related information.
   Demolition Debris A Guide to current Hazardous Waste rules that apply
   to building construction, renovation, and demolition sites in
   Washington State.
   Guidance for Reporting Progress in Pollution Prevention
   The pollution prevention planning process require facilities to submit
   an Annual Progress Report to Ecology. This guidance document will help
   you meet this requirement.
   (Open Document)  Word version  9338.doc

   Chemicals in Washington State Summary Report 1999 Toxic Release
   Inventory and - Hazardous Chemical Inventory  (Open Document)

   Sustainability  Inspiration and information about some of the steps
   that Ecology is taking to foster sustainable communities and natural
   resources within Washington State.

   Hazardous Waste Labels. A free labeling solution designed to assist you
   in meeting labeling requirements for hazardous waste accumulation. Free
   Download. Microsoft Word 97 format.
   Toxics Reduction Engineer Exchange Improve your business' efficiency,
   deal with less waste, and save money.
   The  Governor's Award for achievement in Pollution Prevention  and
   Description of the winners
   Updates to the Washington State Dangerous Waste Regulations adopted as
   of 6/10/00. (Open Document)
   Ecology asks EPA’s Superfund Emergency Response program to take charge
   of CleanCare, a Hazardous Waste Management Facility which as gone out
   of business.
   Hazardous Waste Generators List
   Fertilizer Website and Database
   SARA Title III: A guide for Businesses (Open Document)
   Chemicals in Washington State - Summary: 1998 (Open Document)
   Prevention Enhanced All Known, Available, and Reasonable Technologies
   Last revised: January 3, 2002.
