http://mosaic.larc.nasa.gov/business/business.htm

                                 LaRC Center


                 skip left nav NASA logo
                               Business page
                               Langley Management System
                               Procurement
                               Economic Impact
                 Technology Commercialization Program Office
                               Home
                 Freedom of Information Act



   skip top nav About Us Research News and Events Education Images
   Business with LaRC Reports and Publications Site Index

   Business with Us

   Having an Economic Impact on the Nation

      NASA Langley Research Center has a significant economic impact on the
      Nation and the State of Virginia. With the help of industry, academia
      and the public, NASA will continue to produce benefits to stakeholders,
      the American public. NASA Langley will continue to collaborate with old
      and new partners to generate knowledge and transfer that knowledge to
      its customers, including the public and the academic community.

   Langley Management System

      The Center strives for excellence and achieves success through the
      Langley Management System (LMS). The LMS establishes a set of
      controlled procedures used by Langley civil service employees to ensure
      our products and services meet customer requirements. These policies
      and procedures are outlined in the LMS policy manual.

   Procurement

      The NASA Langley procurement web site highlights business
      opportunities, links to on-line procurement forms, and provides
      information on NASA Contract Awards.

      To provide a better understanding of the NASA Langley business
      procedures and to help your company obtain business from NASA Langley,
      please visit How To Do Business With Langley Research Center.

   Technology Transfer

      In 1993, NASA Langley created the Technology Commercialization Program
      Office (TCPO). TCPO is responsible for supporting and carrying out the
      transfer of NASA Langley technologies to the commercial and private
      sectors. In support of this effort, the TCPO site contains links to
      many NASA Langley technical report servers, technology transfer
      organizations, on-line software archives, and patent and legal
      information. The site also contains information on NASA's small
      business innovation research program.

   Knowledge Transfer

      NASA Langley has been very successful at transferring the knowledge
      derived from research and development to our customers. To help this
      process, NASA Langley maintains several technical report and highlight
      servers.

      The Langley Technical Report Server (LTRS) contains formal reports
      published by Langley researchers. Customers can browse or search
      bibliographic information and view or retrieve the related abstracts
      and full text of the reports. Most reports are stored in compressed
      Postscript format or PDF format.

      The NASA Technical Report Server (NTRS) contains formal reports
      published by NASA researchers. This service allows users to search the
      many abstract and technical report servers maintained by various NASA
      centers and programs.

      The Research and Technology Highlights contains highlights of the major
      accomplishments that have been made by Langley researchers and by our
      university and industry colleagues. Many of the documents contain
      highlights of some of Langley's most important research and testing
      facilities
   manditory area for keeping the table dimensions
   Research Section Aeronautics Earth Science Space Technology Structures
                                                               and Materials

   Privacy Statement | Feedback | Freedom of Information Act | 2003
   Centennial of Flight | Researcher News online | Language Assistance
   Plan (LAP)
   NASA Responsible Official: Cheryl Cleghorn | Page Curator: Bob Allen |
   Date Last Updated: 01/29/2002
