http://www.nano.gov/2002budget.html

   [x.gif] Bypass Navigation
   [x.gif] Activities Participants NNI Reports R&D Info Education

     [x.gif] National Nanotechnology Initiative
       [x.gif]


Research and Development FY 2002

National Nanotechnology Investment
in the FY 2002 Budget Request by the President

   M.C. Roco, NSF
   Chair, National Science and Technology Council's subcommittee
   on Nanoscale Science, Engineering and Technology (NSET)

   Extras from AAAS Report XXVI, Washington, D.C., July 2001, pp. 225-233;
   updated on December 20, 2001

INTRODUCTION

   The emerging fields of nanoscale science, engineering, and technology -
   the ability to work at the molecular level, atom by atom, to create
   large structures with fundamentally new properties and functions - are
   leading to unprecedented understanding and control over the basic
   building blocks and properties of all natural and man-made things. The
   FY 2002 funding request for nanoscale science, engineering and
   technology (noted in brief - nanotechnology) research and development
   (R&D) in eight federal departments and agencies is summarized in Table
   1. The total nanotechnology budget enacted by Congress is approximately
   $568 million (The initial request to Congress was $518.9 million), 30%
   over $422 million for FY 2001. This investment is known as the National
   Nanotechnology Initiative (NNI). The National Science and Technology
   Council (NSTC) Subcommittee on Nanoscale Science, Engineering, and
   Technology (NSET) will coordinate the Federal government's multi-agency
   nanoscale R&D programs, including planning, budgeting, implementing,
   developing interagency collaboration, and reviewing the NNI to ensure
   an efficient investment with broad impact. The R&D strategy is balanced
   across five kind of activities: fundamental research, Grand Challenges,
   centers and networks of excellence, research infrastructure, as well as
   ethical, legal and social implications and workforce programs
   (http://nano.gov).

   Table 1. Summary of Federal nanotechnology investment in FY 2002 Budget
   Request (in million of dollars)

   Department/Agency

                                             FY 2000
                                             NNI Budget

                                                       FY 2001
                                                       NNI Budget

                                                                 FY 2002
                                                                 Budget Request

   Department of Defense*

                                             70

                                                       110

                                                                 144.0

   Department of Energy

                                             58

                                                       93

                                                                 114.1

   Department of Justice

                                             -

                                                       -

                                                                 1.4

   Environmental Protection Agency

                                             -

                                                       -

                                                                 5.0

   National Aeronautics and Space Admin.

                                             5

                                                       20

                                                                 46.0

   National Institutes of Health

                                             32

                                                       39

                                                                 40.8

   National Institute of Standards and Techn.

                                             8

                                                       10

                                                                 17.5

   National Science Foundation

                                             97

                                                       150

                                                                 199.0

   Total**

                                             270

                                                       422

                                                                 567.8 (+35%)

   (**) Figures are not available for four departments that participate in
   the federal nanotechnology investment starting with January 2001:
   Department of State (DOS), Department of Transportation (DOT),
   Department of Treasury (DOTreas), and US Department of Agriculture
   (USDA).

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE (DOD)

   The FY 2002 request is $144 million, $34 million over the enacted FY
   2001 budget. This represents a projection from estimated FY 2001 budget
   and is subject to change as a result of the Defense Strategy Review now
   underway in DOD. The request will continue support for the nanoscale
   science and technology R&D base of $70 million in Air Force, Army and
   Navy, and $30 million for the Office of Strategic Defense (OSD). In
   addition, this budget will include basic research funds for the
   university / DOD laboratory collaborative research programs at Air
   Force (by $10M), Army (by $10M), and Navy (by $13 million). DOD's
   priorities are aligned with its Basic Research Plan, the OSD guidance
   for basic research; and with its Joint Vision 2010, the Chairman of the
   Joint Chiefs' conceptual template for achieving new levels of
   warfighting effectiveness. These documents forecast dynamic change in
   the nature of potential adversaries and emphasize the increasingly
   critical nature of technological advances.

   The FY 2002 funding will largely be utilized to augment programs in the
   three NNI R&D Grand Challenges with prime DOD interest -
   nano-electronics, optoelectronics, and magnetics; nanostructured
   materials "by design"; and bio-nanosensor devices. The distribution of
   DOD augmented funds between these three challenges will be determined
   in collaboration with other NSET agencies: DOE and NASA in
   nanoelectronics; NSF and DOE in nanomaterials; and NSF, NIH, DOE and
   NASA in nanobiotechnology, as well as a function of the quality of
   proposals received. With its $10 million augmentation, the Army
   Research Laboratory (ARL) programs will catalyze the recently created
   ARL Nanoscience and Technology Center (NSTC). The ARL NSTC coordinates
   active 6.1 nanoscience and 6.2 nanotechnology research teams in the
   Sensors and Electron Devices Directorate, the Weapons and Materials
   Research Directorate, the Computation and Information Science
   Directorate, and the Army Research Office. With its $10 million
   augmentation, the Air Force Research Laboratory will extend its
   programs in nanostructured materials, nanofabrication technologies,
   sensor components, and simulation of nanomaterials. With its $13
   million augmentation the Navy plans to expand its collaborative
   University - Naval Research Laboratory program addressing
   interconnection and interaction between disparate nanostructures in
   complex systems. Funding for research, equipment, student fellowships
   have been requested. DOD participation in NNI is coordinated by the
   Research Director in the Office of Director, Defense Research and
   Engineering (DDR&E). The DOD nanotechnology budgets and programs are
   identified at http://nano.gov or http://www.nanosra.nrl.navy.mil .

DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (DOE)

   The FY 2002 Request of $114.1 million is an increase of $3.3 million
   over FY 2001 for the Basic Engineering Sciences (BES, total $85.3
   million) project related to the establishment of user centers for
   nanoscale science, engineering, and technology research, and of $18
   million for Office of Defense Programs (total $28.8 million). The funds
   will allow designated projects for four centers to proceed from
   conceptual design into definitive design. The base funding from FY 2001
   includes about $36 million for university and national laboratories
   R&D, and $10.5 million in the, the same as in FY 2001. The amount is an
   estimate of the work supported at Sandia, Los Alamos, and Livermore
   National Laboratories. The funding covers approximately $34 million for
   fundamental research, $29 million for NNI Grand Challenges, $15 million
   for centers, $15 million for research infrastructure. A R&D program
   solicitation of approximately $18 million for university research and
   $18 million for DOE laboratories is planned. The DOE nanotechnology
   budgets and programs are identified at http://nano.gov or
   http://www.sc.doe.gov/production/bes/BES_FY02budget.pdf).

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (DOJ)

   The FY 2002 DOJ budget for nanotechnology R&D is $1.4 million. Major
   interests are in forensic research, sensors, DNA sequencing, high
   performance computing, and data base management. The National Institute
   of Justice (NIJ) is the research agency of the U.S. Department of
   Justice. NIJ investment of $1 million will continue the DNA R&D as well
   as the demonstration of chip based or micro device technologies to
   analyze DNA in forensic applications. Nanotechnology products will be a
   significant part of the device under development that will eventually
   be integrated into the current crime laboratory processes and protocols
   to analyze forensic DNA samples. NIJ investment of $0.4 million for the
   Chemical and Biological Defense Program will include developing a
   wearable, low-cost device to provide warning of exposure to
   unanticipated chemical and biological hazards in sufficient time for
   its wearer to take effective protective measures. The current approach
   relies on an enzymatic reaction. It is based on vapor exposure of an
   immobilized enzyme surface. Nanotechnology will be used to address
   limitations of the enzymatic approach.

ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)

   The FY 2002 research request is approximately $5 million. The goal is
   improved characterization of environmental problems, significantly
   reduced environmental impacts from "cleaner" manufacturing approaches,
   and reduced material and energy use. The potential impacts of
   nanoparticles from different applications on human health and the
   environment must also be evaluated. Major nanotechnology related
   interests are in aerosols, colloids, clean air and water, measurement
   and remediation of nanoparticles in air, water, and soil. The Office of
   Research and Development (ORD) manages EPA's nanotechnology research,
   and the National Center for Environmental Research (NCER) manages the
   external grant solicitation. In addition, NCER has supported a limited
   number of nanotechnology-based projects through its Small Business
   Innovation Research (SBIR) Program. In house research currently
   includes the National Exposure Research Laboratory and the National
   Risk Management Research Laboratory, and may expand to other ORD
   laboratories in the future.

NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION (NASA)

   The FY 2002 request is $46 million, $24 million over FY 2001. The
   breakdown is approximately as follows: $11 million for materials (lead
   by the Langley Laboratory); $15 million for electronics and computing
   (Ames Laboratory); $10 million for sensors and components (including
   Jet Propulsion Laboratory with $3million); and $10 million for Basic
   Nanoscience. NASA's investment in nanoscience and nanotechnology is
   composed from contributions of several laboratories (mainly Ames,
   Langley and JPL) and externally supported research. Major themes and
   new programs in FY 2002 include: (a) Manufacturing techniques of single
   walled carbon nanotubes for structural reinforcement; electronic,
   magnetic, lubricating, and optical devices; chemical sensors and
   biosensors; (b) Tools to develop autonomous devices that articulate,
   sense, communicate, and function as a network, extending human presence
   beyond the normal senses; and (c) Robotics using nanoelectronics,
   biological sensors and artificial neural systems. Due to NASA's
   relatively modest budget, the Agency will focus primarily on
   NASA-unique needs, that is: low power devices, high strength materials
   that perform with exceptional autonomy in the hostile space
   environment. NASA looks to NSF-sponsored work for wide-ranging
   contributions in fundamental research, and emphasizes work in direct
   support of the Grand Challenge areas the agency selects for focus, some
   of them in collaboration with DOD (aerospace structural materials,
   radiation tolerant devices, high resolution imagery), NIH (non-invasive
   human health monitoring via identification and detection of molecular
   signatures, and biosensors) and DOE (lab-on-a-chip, and environmental
   monitoring). A major focus at NASA is to advance and exploit the zone
   of convergence between nanotechnology, biotechnology and information
   technology for space exploration. The Agency will spend up to $1M per
   year towards an understanding of the societal and ethical implications
   of nanotechnology, with a focus in the area of monitoring of human
   health. Opportunities will be sought with university research centers
   to arrange for student and postdoctoral fellows, including
   opportunities to work for periods of time at NASA Centers. It is the
   Agencies intent to extend international space mission collaborations
   into the arena of nanotechnology.

NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (NIH)

   The FY 2002 request is approximately $40.8 million, an increase of $1.8
   million above the approved level for FY 2001. NIH will issue several
   nanotechnology related R&D program announcements, that are subsets of
   the NIH FY 2002 Research Initiatives, of which more relevant are: (a)
   The Genetic Medicine Initiative includes large-scale sequencing to
   assist in interpreting the human sequence, and identifying and
   characterizing genes that are responsible for variations in diseases.
   An increased investment in nanotechnology research is planned to
   develop novel, revolutionary instruments that can be used to collect
   DNA sequence variation and gene expression data from individual
   patients, initially to identify genes involved in causing diseases, and
   later to diagnose exactly which form of the disease the patient has, to
   guide therapy that will actually treat that patient's disease; (b) The
   Initiative in Clinical Research to bridge basic discoveries to
   tomorrow's new treatments, including nanotechnology advances for
   development of sensors for disease signatures and diagnosis of
   diseases. Major themes and new programs in FY 2001 include:
   biomaterials, clinical diagnostic sensors, genomics sensors,
   nanoparticles and nanospheres for drug and gene delivery,
   Multidisciplinary training, Study social, ethical and legal aspects.
   The National Institute of Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering (NIBIB)
   is in formative stages at NIH and is expected to be operating by
   FY2002. The NIH Bioengineering Consortium (BECON) will coordinate
   research programs through NIBIB, including nanotechnology research.

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STANDARDS AND TECHNOLOGY (NIST)

   The FY 2002 request is $17.5 million, $7.5 million increase over the
   enacted FY 2001 budget. The funds will be distributed across the NIST
   Laboratories. NIST will develop the critical enabling infrastructural
   measurement, standards, and data for nanomagnetics,
   nanocharacterization, and new information technologies that will
   replace semiconductor electronics in the future. Nanomagnetics research
   will provide measurement and standards for current and near-term
   applications of nanotechnology in the semiconductor, communications,
   and health care industries. Nanocharacterization research will produce
   standards and tools for visualization and characterization at the
   nanoscale, which are in high demand by a broad base of U.S. industries.
   Research will be conducted to provide fundamental measurements needed
   for future generations of information technology hardware that will be
   needed to replace semiconductor electronics technology in a decade or
   so. In order to leverage internal efforts, NIST will develop stronger
   strategic alliances and collaborations with universities, businesses,
   and other government agencies that possess leading expertise in
   nanotechnology. NIST plans to extend the FY 2001 investment for
   nanotechnology funding to these external organizations to conduct much
   of the specific work required to meet the goals of this initiative and
   avoid developing costly, complex in-house capabilities that may only be
   used once. As an agency of the U.S. Department of Commerce, NIST works
   to help facilitate international trade by working with international
   standards organizations and national metrology institutes. Key issues
   in the future for international trade, with respect to nanotechnology,
   will be traceability of measurements and "harmonization" of
   international standards.

NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (NSF)

   The FY 2002 request for the Nanoscale Science and Engineering is
   approximately $199 million, $49 million increase over FY 2001. All
   research directorates participate as it is shown in Table 2.

   Table 2. NSF FY 2002 request (in millions of dollars)

   Directorate

                                                   FY 2001
                                                   Current Plan

                                                               FY 2002
                                                               Request

   Biological Sciences

                                                   2.33

                                                               2.33

   Computer and Information Science and Engineering

                                                   2.20

                                                               10.20

   Engineering

                                                   55.27

                                                               86.30

   Geosciences

                                                   6.80

                                                               6.80

   Mathematics and Physical Science

                                                   83.08

                                                               93.08

   Total, Nanoscale Science and Engineering

                                                   $149.68

                                                               $198.71

   FY 2002 investment will expand a wide range of research and education
   activities in nanoscale science and technology, in order to develop and
   strengthen critical fields and to establish the physical science and
   engineering infrastructure and prepare the workforce. Support will be
   focused on interdisciplinary research and education teams, nanoscale
   science and engineering centers, exploratory research and education and
   training. NSF five programmatic focus areas are: (a) Fundamental
   research and education ($125.50 million) with special emphasis on
   biosystems at the nanoscale ($20.0 million); nanoscale structures,
   novel phenomena and quantum control (42.22 million); device and system
   architecture ($28.00 million); Nanoscale processes in the environment
   ($10.00 million), and manufacturing processes at the nanoscale ($6.5
   million); multi-scale, multi-phenomena theory, modeling and simulation
   at the nanoscale ($18.77 million); (b) Grand Challenges ($8.71 million)
   will fund interdisciplinary activities to focus on major long-term
   challenges: nanostructured materials 'by design,' nanoscale
   electronics, optoelectronics and magnetics, nanoscale-based
   manufacturing, catalysts, chemical manufacturing, environment and
   healthcare; (c) Centers and networks of excellence ($32.50 million)
   will provide support for about 15 research and education centers, a
   multidisciplinary, multi-sectoral network for modeling and simulation
   at the nanoscale, and nanofabrication experimentation and user
   facilities; (d) Research Infrastructure ($22.00 million) for
   instrumentation and facilities for improved measurements, processing
   and manipulation at nanoscale, and equipment and software for modeling
   and simulation; (e) Societal and educational implications of science
   and technology advances ($10.00 million) for student assistantships,
   fellowships and traineeships, curriculum development on nanoscience and
   engineering and development of new teaching tools. The impact of
   nanotechnology on society will be analyzed from legal, ethical, social,
   and economic perspectives. Collaborative activities are planned with
   DOD in the area of nanostructured materials and modeling, with DOE in
   the areas of user facilities and sustainable development, with NASA in
   nanobiotechnology and nanodevices, with NIH in bioengineering and
   bionanodevices, with NIST in instrumentation development, and with
   other agencies. The Nanoscale Science and Engineering (NSE) Group
   including representatives from all directorates coordinates the NNI
   activities at NSF. The NSF nanoscale science and engineering budgets
   and programs are identified at http://nano.gov or
   http://www.nsf.gov/nano .

COLLABORATIVE ACTIVITIES in FY 2002

   The NSTC' subcommittee on Nanoscale Science, Engineering and Technology
   (NSET) will coordinate joint activities that create synergies between
   the individual agencies in a variety of topics and modalities of
   collaboration. The coordination will: identify of the most promising
   research directions, funding of complementary/synergistic fields of
   research that are critical for the advancement of the nanoscience and
   engineering field, develop a balanced infrastructure (portfolio of
   programs, development of new specific tools, instrumentation,
   simulation infrastructure, standards for nanoscale), correlate funding
   activities for centers and networks of excellence, cost share high cost
   R&D activities, develop a broad workforce trained in the many aspects
   necessary to nanotechnology, study of the diverse, complex implications
   on society such as effect of nanomaterial manufacturing on environment
   and effect of nanodevices on health, and avoid of unnecessary
   duplication of efforts. The coordination also will address NNI
   management issues.

   Examples of major collaborative NNI activities crossing the eight
   agencies with FY2002 budget request listed in Table 1 are shown in
   Table 3. DOS is contributing to international aspects on all topics.
   DOT, DOTreas and DOA also participate in their areas of interest.

   Table 3. Examples of proposed NNI interagency collaborative activities

   Agency

                                         DOD

                                            DOE

                                               DOJ

                                                  EPA

                                                     NASA

                                                         NIH

                                                            NIST

                                                                NSF

   Fundamental research

                                         x

                                            x



                                                      x

                                                         x


                                                                 x

   Nanostructured materials

                                         x

                                            x


                                                   x

                                                     x

                                                         x

                                                            x

                                                                x

   Molecular electronics

                                         x




                                                      x


                                                             x

                                                                x

   Spin electronics

                                         x




                                                      x



                                                                 x

   Lab-on-a-chip (nanocomponents)

                                         x

                                            x

                                               x


                                                      x

                                                         x

                                                            x

                                                                x

   Biosensors, bioinformatics



                                                x


                                                      x

                                                         x


                                                                x

   Bioengineering

                                         x

                                            x




                                                          x


                                                                 x

   Quantum computing

                                         x

                                            x



                                                      x


                                                             x

                                                                x

   Measurements and standards for tools

                                         x

                                            x


                                                   x


                                                          x

                                                            x

                                                                x

   Nanoscale theory, modeling, simulation

                                         x

                                            x



                                                      x



                                                                 x

   Environmental monitoring


                                            x


                                                   x

                                                     x



                                                                 x

   Nanorobotics


                                             x



                                                      x



                                                                 x

   Unmanned missions

                                         x




                                                      x




   International collaboration

                                         x

                                            x

                                               x

                                                  x

                                                     x

                                                         x

                                                            x

                                                                x

   Nanofabrication user facilities


                                             x


                                                   x

                                                     x

                                                         x

                                                            x

                                                                x


                                 [bluex.gif]
   Dr. M.C. Roco, Chair, NSET
   E-mail: mroco@nsf.gov     Carbon Nanotube Last Modified: January 14, 2002
