http://www.ne.nrcs.usda.gov/programs/index.html

   Programs and Services

   Home NE Photo Gallery Hot Topics and News Directory N R D ' s RC&D
   Helpful Links Technical Resources Programs and Services Career
   Opportunities Volunteer

   Programs and Services

   [greenba.gif] Conservation Farm Option
   [greenba.gif] Conservation Plant Materials Center
   [greenba.gif] Conservation Technical Assistance
   [greenba.gif] Emergency Watershed Protection Program
   [greenba.gif] Environmental Quality Incentives Program
   [greenba.gif] Forestry Incentives Program
   [greenba.gif] Grazing Lands Conservation Program
   [greenba.gif] Resource Conservation and Development
   [greenba.gif] Soil Survey Programs
   [greenba.gif] Watershed Protection and Flood PreventionOperations
   [greenba.gif] Watershed Surveys and Planning
   [greenba.gif] Wetlands Reserve Program
   [greenba.gif] Wildlife Habitat Incentives Program

                                [ablrule.gif]

ConservationTechnical Assistance (CTA)

   Contact: USDA, Natural Resources Conservation Service
   The purpose of the program is to assist land-users, communities, units
   of state and local government, and other Federal agencies in planning
   and implementing conservation systems. The purpose of the conservation
   systems are to reduce erosion, improve soil and water quality, improve
   and conserve wetlands, enhance fish and wildlife habitat, improve air
   quality, improve pasture and range condition, reduce upstream flooding,
   and improve woodlands.
   Objectives of the program are to:

   [or_ball.gif] Assist individual land users, communities, conservation
   districts, and other units of state and local government and federal
   agencies to meet their goals for resource stewardship and assist
   individuals to comply with state and local requirements. NRCS
   assistance to individuals is provided through conservation districts in
   accordance with the memorandum of understanding signed by the Secretary
   of Agriculture, the Governor of the State, and the conservation
   district. Assistance is provided to land users voluntarily applying
   conservation and to those who must comply with local or state laws and
   regulations.
   [or_ball.gif] Assist agricultural producers to comply with the highly
   erodible land (HEL) and wetland (Swampbuster) provisions of the 1985
   Food Security Act as amended by the Food, Agriculture, Conservation and
   Trade Act of 1990 (16 U.S.C.3801 et. seq.) and the Federal Agriculture
   Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 and wetlands requirements of Section
   404 of the Clean Water Act. NRCS makes HEL and wetland determinations
   and helps land users develop and implement conservation plans to comply
   with the law.
   [or_ball.gif] Provide technical assistance to participants in USDA
   cost-share and conservation incentive programs. (Assistance is funded
   on a reimbursable basis from the CCC.)
   [or_ball.gif] Collect, analyze, interpret, display, and disseminate
   information about the condition and trends of the Nation's soil and
   other natural resources so that people can make good decisions about
   resource use and about public policies for resource conservation.
   [or_ball.gif] Develop effective science-based technologies for natural
   resource assessment, management, and conservation.


                                [ablrule.gif]

Conservation Farm Option (CFO)

   Contact: USDA, Farm Service Agency or Natural Resources Conservation
   Service
   The Conservation Farm Option is a pilot program for producers of wheat,
   feed grains, cotton, and rice. The program's purposes include
   conservation of soil, water, and related resources, water quality
   protection and improvement, wetland restoration, protection and
   creation, wildlife habitat development and protection, or other similar
   conservation purposes. Eligibility is limited to owners and producers
   who have contract acreage enrolled in the Agricultural Market
   Transition Act program, i.e. production flexibility contracts. The CFO
   is a voluntary program. Participants are required to develop and
   implement a conservation farm plan. The plan becomes part of the CFO
   contract which covers a ten year period. CFO is not restricted as to
   what measures may be included in the conservation plan, so long as they
   provide environmental benefits. During the contract period the owner or
   producer (1.) receives annual payments for implementing the CFO
   contract and (2.) agrees to forgo payments under the Conservation
   Reserve Program, the Wetlands Reserve Program, and the Environmental
   Quality Incentives Program in exchange for one consolidated payment.

                                [ablrule.gif]

Conservation of Private Grazing Land Initiative (CPGL)

   Contact: USDA, Natural Resources Conservation Service
   The Conservation of Private Grazing Land initiative will ensure that
   technical, educational, and related assistance is provided to those who
   own private grazing lands. It is not a cost share program. This
   technical assistance will offer opportunities for: better grazing land
   management, protecting soil from erosive wind and water, using more
   energy-efficient ways to produce food and fiber, conserving water,
   providing habitat for wildlife, sustaining forage and grazing plants;
   using plants to sequester greenhouse gases and increase soil organic
   matter, and using grazing lands as a source of biomass energy and raw
   materials for industrial products.
   More information can be found at the Grazing Lands Technology
   Institute.

                                [ablrule.gif]

Conservation Plant Material Centers

   Contact: USDA, Natural Resources Conservation Service
   The purpose of the program is to provide native plants that can help
   solve natural resource problems. Beneficial uses for which plant
   material may be developed include biomass production, carbon
   sequestration, erosion reduction, wetland restoration, water quality
   improvement, streambank and riparian area protection, coastal dune
   stabilization, and other special conservation treatment needs.
   Scientists at the Plant Materials Centers seek out plants that show
   promise for meeting an identified conservation need and test their
   performance. After species are proven, they are released to the private
   sector for commercial production. The work at the 26 centers is carried
   out cooperatively with state and federal agencies, commercial
   businesses, and seed and nursery associations.

                                [ablrule.gif]

Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP)

   Contact: USDA, Natural Resources Conservation Service
   The Environmental Quality Incentives Program provides technical,
   educational, and financial assistance to eligible farmers and ranchers
   to address soil, water, and related natural resource concerns on their
   lands in an environmentally beneficial and cost-effective manner. The
   program provides assistance to farmers and ranchers in complying with
   Federal, State, and tribal environmental laws, and encourages
   environmental enhancement. The program is funded through the Commodity
   Credit Corporation. The purposes of the program are achieved through
   the implementation of a conservation plan which includes structural,
   vegetative, and land management practices on eligible land. Five to
   ten-year contracts are made with eligible producers. Cost-share
   payments may be made to implement one or more eligible structural or
   vegetative practices, such as animal waste management facilities,
   terraces, filter strips, tree planting, and permanent wildlife habitat.
   Incentive payments can be made to implement one or more land management
   practices, such as nutrient management, pest management, and grazing
   land management.
   Fifty percent of the funding available for the program will be targeted
   at natural resource concerns relating to livestock production. The
   program is carried out primarily in priority areas that may be
   watersheds, regions, or multi-state areas, and for significant
   statewide natural resource concerns that are outside of geographic
   priority areas.
   For additional information, see our Farm Policy Legislation page.

                                [ablrule.gif]

Soil Survey Programs

   Contact: USDA, Natural Resources Conservation Service
   The National Cooperative Soil Survey Program (NCSS) is a partnership
   led by NRCS of federal land management agencies, state agricultural
   experiment stations and state and local units of government that
   provide soil survey information necessary for understanding, managing,
   conserving and sustaining the nation's limited soil resources.
   Soil surveys provide an orderly, on-the-ground, scientific inventory of
   soil resources that includes maps showing the locations and extent of
   soils, data about the physical and chemical properties of those soils,
   and information derived from that data about potentialities and
   problems of use on each kind of soil in sufficient detail to meet all
   reasonable needs for farmers, agricultural technicians, community
   planners, engineers, and scientists in planning and transferring the
   findings of research and experience to specific land areas. Soil
   surveys provide the basic information needed to manage soil
   sustainably. They also provide information needed to protect water
   quality, wetlands, and wildlife habitat. Soil surveys are the basis for
   predicting the behavior of a soil under alternative uses, its potential
   erosion hazard, potential for ground water contamination, suitability
   and productivity for cultivated crops, trees, and grasses. Soil surveys
   are important to planners, engineers, zoning commissions, tax
   commissioners, homeowners, developers, as well as agricultural
   producers. Soil surveys also provide a basis to help predict the effect
   of global climate change on worldwide agricultural production and other
   land-dependent processes. The NRCS Soil Survey Division through its
   World Soil Resources Staff helps gather and interpret soil information
   for global use.
   NRCS provides the soil surveys for the privately owned lands of the
   nation and, through its National Soil Survey Center, provides
   scientific expertise to enable the NCSS to develop and maintain a
   uniform system for mapping and assessing soil resources so that soil
   information from different locations can be shared, regardless of which
   agency collects it. NRCS provides most of the training in soil survey
   to Federal agencies and assists other Federal agencies with their soil
   inventories on a reimbursable basis. NRCS is also responsible for
   developing the standards and mechanisms for providing digital soil
   information for the national spatial data infrastructure required by
   Executive Order 12906.

                                [ablrule.gif]

Forestry Incentives Program (FIP)

   Contact: USDA, Natural Resources Conservation Service
   The Forestry Incentives Program (FIP) supports good forest management
   practices on privately owned, non-industrial forest lands nationwide.
   FIP is designed to benefit the environment while meeting future demands
   for wood products. Eligible practices are tree planting, timber stand
   improvement, site preparation for natural regeneration, and other
   related activities. FIP is available in counties designated by a Forest
   Service survey of eligible private timber acreage.
   For additional information, see our Farm Policy Legislation page.

                                [ablrule.gif]

Watershed Surveys and Planning

   Contact: USDA, Natural Resources Conservation Service
   The Watershed and Flood Prevention Act, P.L. 83-566, August 4, 1954,
   (16 U.S.C. 1001-1008) authorized this program. Prior to fiscal year
   1996, small watershed planning activities and the cooperative river
   basin surveys and investigations authorized by Section 6 of the Act
   were operated as separate programs. The 1996 appropriations act
   combined the activities into a single program entitled the Watershed
   Surveys and Planning program. Activities under both programs are
   continuing under this authority.
   The purpose of the program is to assist Federal, State, and local
   agencies and tribal governments to protect watersheds from damage
   caused by erosion, floodwater, and sediment and to conserve and develop
   water and land resources. Resource concerns addressed by the program
   include water quality, opportunities for water conservation, wetland
   and water storage capacity, agricultural drought problems, rural
   development, municipal and industrial water needs, upstream flood
   damages, and water needs for fish, wildlife, and forest-based
   industries.
   Types of surveys and plans include watershed plans, river basin surveys
   and studies, flood hazard analyses, and flood plain management
   assistance. The focus of these plans is to identify solutions that use
   land treatment and nonstructural measures to solve resource problems.
   Also see the Emergency Watershed Protection Fact Sheet.

                                [ablrule.gif]

Resource Conservation & Development Program (RC&D)

   Contact: USDA, Natural Resources Conservation Service
   The purpose of the Resource Conservation and Development (RC&D) program
   is to accelerate the conservation, development and utilization of
   natural resources, improve the general level of economic activity, and
   to enhance the environment and standard of living in authorized RC&D
   areas. It improves the capability of state, tribal, and local units of
   government and local nonprofit organizations in rural areas to plan,
   develop and carry out programs for resource conservation and
   development. The program also establishes or improves coordination
   systems in rural areas. Current program objectives focus on improvement
   of quality of life achieved through natural resources conservation and
   community development which leads to sustainable communities, prudent
   use (development), and the management and conservation of natural
   resources. Authorized RC&D areas are locally sponsored areas designated
   by the Secretary of Agriculture for RC&D technical and financial
   assistance program funds. NRCS can provide grants for land
   conservation, water management, community development, and
   environmental needs in authorized RC&D areas.

                                [ablrule.gif]

Watersheds Operations--Small Watershed Program and Flood Prevention Program
(WF 08 or FP 03)

   Contact: USDA, Natural Resources Conservation Service
   The Small Watershed Program works through local government sponsors and
   helps participants solve natural resource and related economic problems
   on a watershed basis. Projects include watershed protection, flood
   prevention, erosion and sediment control, water supply, water quality,
   fish and wildlife habitat enhancement, wetlands creation and
   restoration, and public recreation in watersheds of 250,000 or fewer
   acres. Both technical and financial assistance are available. Click
   here for details.
   Also see the Emergency Watershed Protection Fact Sheet.

                                [ablrule.gif]

Wetlands Reserve Program (WRP)

   Contact: USDA, Natural Resources Conservation Service
   The Wetlands Reserve Program is a voluntary program to restore
   wetlands. Participating landowners can establish conservation easements
   of either permanent or 30-year duration, or can enter into restoration
   cost-share agreements where no easement is involved. In exchange for
   establishing a permanent easement, the landowner receives payment up to
   the agricultural value of the land and 100 percent of the restoration
   costs for restoring the wetlands The 30-year easement payment is 75
   percent of what would be provided for a permanent easement on the same
   site and 75 percent of the restoration cost. The voluntary agreements
   are for a minimum 10-year duration and provide for 75 percent of the
   cost of restoring the involved wetlands. Easements and restoration
   cost-share agreements establish wetland protection and restoration as
   the primary land use for the duration of the easement or agreement. In
   all instances, landowners continue to control access to their land.
   For additional information, see our Farm Policy Legislation page.

                                [ablrule.gif]

Wildlife Habitat Incentives Program (WHIP)

   Contact: USDA, Natural Resources Conservation Service
   The Wildlife Habitat Incentives Program provides financial incentives
   to develop habitat for fish and wildlife on private lands. Participants
   agree to implement a wildlife habitat development plan and USDA agrees
   to provide cost-share assistance for the initial implementation of
   wildlife habitat development practices. USDA and program participants
   enter into a cost-share agreement for wildlife habitat development.
   This agreement generally lasts a minimum of 10 years from the date that
   the contract is signed.
   For additional information, see our Farm Policy Legislation page.

                                [ablrule.gif]

Emergency Watershed Protection (EWP)

   Contact: USDA, Natural Resources Conservation Service
   The Emergency Watershed Protection (EWP) Program was passed by Congress
   to relieve imminent threats to life and property caused by storms,
   flooding, and erosion. It is designed to assist groups of people with a
   common problem, but individuals who are sponsored by a local unit of
   government may also qualify.
   Key Provisions:
   Provides technical and cost-sharing assistance up to 75% of project
   costs; and
   Provides a case-by-case investigation of eligible projects to develop
   remedial measures.
   Eligibility:
   EWP protects homes, businesses, highways, public facilities, and a wide
   variety of other property damaged or threatened by natural disasters or
   emergencies. Public and private landowners are eligible but they must
   be represented by a sponsoring local unit of government such as a city,
   county, or watershed authority.
   Limitations:
   EWP funds cannot be used to:
   [or_ball.gif] Solve pre-existing problems or raise the level of
                 protection that existed prior to the disaster;
   [or_ball.gif] Support operation or maintenance work, or repair
                 transportation facilities or utilities;
   [or_ball.gif] Adversely affect downstream water rights or install
                 measures not essential to hazard reduction;
   [or_ball.gif] Perform work on measures installed by another Federal
                 agency.
   How to Apply:
   If you believe your area might qualify for assistance, contact your
   city or county flood control district or emergency service authority.
   These units of government can sponsor the assistance by sending a
   letter to the NRCS State Conservationist providing the nature,
   location, and scope of the problem for which assistance is requested.
   Additional information and assistance can be obtained by contacting
   your local NRCS Field Office.



   [blue_bar.gif]
   Partner Links: NRCS | USDA | NACD | FSA | RD | FS | CSREES
   [blue_bar.gif]

   United States Department of Agriculture
   Natural Resources Conservation Service
   Nebraska State Office
   100 Centennial Mall North, Room 152
   Lincoln, NE 68508
   Webmaster
