http://www.ohio.doe.gov/fernald/release.pdf

   DOE NEWS NEWS MEDIA CONTACT FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Gary Stegner (513)
   648-3153 gary.stegner@fernald.gov Ken Morgan 937-865-3968
   ken.morgan@ohio.doe.gov DOE AWARDS FERNALD CLOSURE CONTRACT The
   Department of Energy (DOE) has announced that Fluor Fernald, Inc. has
   been awarded the contract for final cleanup of the Fernald
   Environmental Management Project. This new closure contract is a
   cost-plus-incentive-fee (CPIF) arrangement which provides significant
   financial incentives to Fluor Fernald to complete work at the site
   ahead of schedule and below the baseline cost. The contractor assumes
   responsibility for performance under the new contract on December 1,
   2000, and the contract is effective through completion of the site
   cleanup. In addition to Fluor, the Fernald team will consist of: Jacobs
   Engineering, Waste Management Federal Services, Nuclear Fuel Services,
   and TRS Staffing Solutions. Fernald is a DOE-owned former uranium
   production facility located approximately 18 miles northwest of
   Cincinnati. This closure contract is being awarded following the
   receipt and evaluation of Fluor Fernald=s proposal in response to the
   competitive Request for Proposals which the Department of Energy issued
   to industry on May 19, 2000. The Department of Energy is committed to
   completing closure of the site by 2006, and believes this contract will
   provide incentives for Fluor Fernald to achieve this goal. Although the
   contract target date for site completion is December 31, 2010, Fluor
   Fernald will earn maximum incentive fee if it completes the site by
   December 31, 2006. The contract target cost is $2.4 billion with a
   target fee of $120 million. The contract provides for greater
   accountability by Fluor Fernald than in the current contract, so that
   cost increases and schedule delays reduce the amount of fee earned. The
   Department has agreed with exceptions for occurrences beyond the
   contractor=s control, and Fluor Fernald has accepted the risk of any
   increases in cost based on an 80/20 share arrangement. Major provisions
   of the contract include: * A specific and well-defined scope of work
   which includes completion, restoration and closure of the site in
   accordance with existing agreements and schedules. * A fee structure
   that provides strong incentives for completing the job ahead of
   schedule and at or below target cost. The contract continues until the
   scope of work is complete, with the fee, reward and risk structure all
   heavily weighted toward a safe closure. * Significant penalties for
   failure to achieve environmental, safety and health requirements. *
   Contractor responsibility for 20 percent of cost overruns, and
   contractor sharing in 20 percent of cost savings, providing a
   significant incentive to complete projects on schedule and within
   budget. * A project management system that tracks contractor
   performance based on tangible, quantifiable progress toward closure,
   and ensures clarity and objectivity in DOE assessments of contractor
   performance. * Fluor Fernald, Inc. will be the single contractor
   responsible for management and integration of site work, with specific
   cleanup activities conducted by teaming partners and subcontractors. *
   The new contract replaces the annual performance measure structure of
   the existing contract with an emphasis on completion of the total
   project. Under the new contract, fee is paid provisionally on a
   quarterly basis until total project completion is achieved. DOE retains
   the right to withhold or recover fee based on overall project
   completion. In awarding the contract, DOE Assistant Secretary Carolyn
   Huntoon said, AWe are pleased to award the contract to Fluor Fernald.
   Fluor Fernald has an excellent track record at the site, with visible
   progress being made in every major project. This innovative closure
   contract provides the Department with its best opportunity to achieve
   the 2006 closure date.@ Fluor Fernald has managed the cleanup of
   Fernald since November, 1992. Since that time all Records of Decision
   (RODs) characterizing the type and extent of contamination and
   outlining the cleanup remedies have been executed. Also, extensive
   environmental remediation activities have been undertaken for all of
   Fernald=s major cleanup projects. Since 1992, this major Department of
   Energy project has: * Begun excavation of the waste pits and shipped
   nearly 175,000 tons of Waste Pits material to the Envirocare facility
   in Utah. * Completed all Safe Shutdown activities and demolished 90 of
   200 former production facilities. * Removed more than half of Fernald=
   s total of 32 million pounds of uranium metal inventory. * Placed
   nearly 600,000 cubic yards of material into the On-Site Disposal
   Facility. * Treated over 6.5 billion gallons of contaminated ground and
   surface water. * Excavated 750,000 cubic yards out of 1.8 million cubic
   yards of contaminated soil. Steve McCracken, the newly appointed
   DOE-Fernald Site Director said, "This contract will allow Fernald to
   continue an accelerated pace of remediation, and provide our
   neighboring communities with a safe, efficient and thorough cleanup.@
   ###
