http://www.nist.gov/public_affairs/public.htm

   General Public

                                     ""

         The National Institute of Standards and Technology develops
       technologies, measurement methods and standards that help U.S.
    companies compete in the global marketplace. Congress created NIST in
        1901 at the start of the industrial revolution to provide the
   measurements and standards needed to resolve and prevent disputes over
       trade and to encourage standardization. That's why you can have
      confidence that a gallon of milk contains one gallon and that the
   electric meter at your house accurately gauges how much electricity you
                                    use.

    Today NIST continues to develop measurements and standards needed by
    industry, and also develops technologies that help our nation remain
    prosperous. Companies can apply for co-funding to develop innovative
        new technologies. NIST also helps manufacturers improve their
    productivity through a nationwide network of assistance centers. The
    Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award is another way NIST promotes
     organizational performance excellence. To learn more, check out the
                             links listed below.
               General NIST information The official U.S. time
   NIST in Your Community--explore how NIST works to help make everyone's
     life a little better each day Frequenty asked questions about time
      NIST in Your House -- shows where NIST has an unseen role Metric
                                 information
    NIST and Your City -- gives the NIST connection to many components of
                                   society
                             Visitor information
    Taking America's Measure--enjoy fun activities for kids How to get to
                           NIST, Gaithersburg, Md.
   NIST is 100; check out NIST history How to get to NIST, Boulder, Colo.
             NIST virtual museum Photo gallery of NIST projects
    How the Declaration of Independence and other Charters of Freedom are
                            preserved NIST videos
           A Walk Through Time - the evolution of time measurement


   See also: About NIST, A-Z Subject Index, NIST Home Page

   Date created: 9/6/00
   Last updated: 12/7//01
   Contact: inquiries@nist.gov
