http://crapo.senate.gov/pressreleases/2001/December/pr12102001.htm

   [USEMAP:flag_front_page_contents.jpg]

                                 [crapo.gif]

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

                                                                 CONTACTS:      Susan Wheeler

                                                                               (202) 224-5150
December 10, 2001

                                                                              Lindsay Nothern

                                                                               (208) 334-1776

      CRAPO POISED TO OFFER AMENDMENT TO STRIKE NATIONAL DAIRY PROGRAM

       Costs of provision would add $2 billion to the taxpayers' bill


   Washington, DC - Idaho Senator Mike Crapo is proceeding with plans to
   offer an amendment that will strike the national dairy program from the
   Farm Bill. The amendment, which is co-sponsored by Senators Jeff
   Bingaman (D-New Mexico), Pete Domenici (R-New Mexico), Dianne Feinstein
   (D-California), Larry Craig (R-Idaho), and Sam Brownback (R-Kansas),
   will strike the national dairy program, which is currently estimated to
   cost $2 billion over ten years from the Treasury, and replace it with a
   study on the impacts of federal dairy policy on farmers and consumers.

   "Although there have been changes in the original proposal, I remain
   concerned about the detrimental effects this national dairy program
   will have on dairy farmers and taxpayers," Crapo said. "The program
   will likely increase production, which will end in a surplus on milk on
   the market, forcing prices down. Ultimately, taxpayers, who are now
   funding the program, will also end up paying more when low prices force
   government purchases of surplus dairy products or when producers look
   to the government for continued support. The bottom line is that the
   proposal will cause great harm to Idaho dairy producers as well as
   others throughout the country, and it will negatively affect those
   responsible for 90 percent of the milk production in the country.
   Congress has a responsibility to encourage policies that foster growth
   and innovation in the industry; this program is bad policy from the
   very beginning."

   Crapo said. "At present the dairy industry is doing better than most
   others farms and other segments of our economy. A recent USDA Economic
   Research Service report indicates that 'dairy operations are projected
   to show the most improvement in 2001, with average net cash income
   rising almost $40,000 per farm.' Additionally, USDA found that dairy
   producers net cash incomes are also on the rise. We simply must make
   certain that policies adopted in the Farm Bill help, not harm,
   producers and are beneficial to consumers and taxpayers."

   The U.S. Senate is debating the Farm Bill this week. Crapo is expected
   to offer his amendment on Tuesday.

                                    # # #

      This page was updated on 01/07/2002 .  Contact Webmaster with any
                           comments or suggestions
