http://www.skillsnetwork.gov/results.cfm?ID=35

   REFRESH(200 sec): file://localhost/


   Welcome

   Meet
   the Skills
   Network

   Find Your State

   Home

   [logo2.jpg]

   Workforce Investment Act

   Measure Results



   Information and resources related to the Workforce Investment Act


   Easy-to-Read WIA

   Plain language version of the Workforce Investment Act

   Gateway to WIA Resources

   The U. S. Department of Labor's official gateway for news, guidelines,
   tools, and resources on the Workforce Investment Act.
   Index of WIA Tools and Resouces

   Links to State One Stop Web Sites

   Map of One Stop Centers with web sites.

   National Governors Association & NGA Center for Best Practices

   NGA is the only bipartisan national organization of, by, and for the
   nations' governors. Through NGA, the governors identify priority issues
   and address public policy and governance issues at both the national
   and state levels. A current focus is the Workforce Investment Act and
   Welfare Reform.

   The Workforce ATM

   The website of the Interstate Conference of Employment Security
   Agencies, the national organization of the publicly-funded state
   workforce agencies responsible for implementing the Workforce
   Investment Act. Check the home page for a great listing of current
   news, articles and grants related to WIA.

   U. S. Department of Labor's Implementing WIA Presentation

   The Department of Labor's slide show presentation on WIA issues and
   strategies for implementation

   U. S. Department of Labor's WIA Training Modules

   Official training modules including WIA overview, governance,
   comprehensive services, customer satisfaction and measurement.

   WIA Performance Measures

   U. S. Department of Labor's technical guidance on core and customer
   satsifaction measures

   Workers.gov

   This comprehensive website is a gateway to government information and
   services for American workers and their families. You will find
   information about jobs, learning, family health, housing and
   transportation, money management, rights and protections, disabilities
   resources, citizenship, and even recreation and travel.

   Workforce Excellence Network

   Public-private partnership, sponsored by the U. S. Department of Labor,
   to promote continuous quality improvement in the workforce investment
   system.

   Workforce Investment Act

   An initiative to design, with states and local communities, a
   revitalized, workforce investment system that provides workers with the
   information, advice, job search assistance, and training they need to
   get and keep good jobs and provides employers with skilled workers.

   Workforce Investment Act of 1998

   An electronic version of the public law

   Text Only | Admin | Talk With Us | Privacy Statement | Home
