http://www.energy2001.ee.doe.gov/tracks.htm

                    Energy 2001 Workshop Tracks Overview


                    Energy 2001 Home
                    Who should attend Energy 2001?
                    Energy 2001 General Information
                    Energy 2001 is a Green Meeting
                    Energy 2001 Program Sponsors
                    Energy 2001 Exhibitor Information
                    Energy 2001 Plenary Speakers
                    Energy 2001 Registration Information
                    Updated Information for Energy 2001

                    [tracks2.gif]
                    [attendee1.gif]

      To view presentations, click on the track you are interested in.
    Presentations are posted for names that are underlined. Click on the
    name for a copy of the presentation. More presentations will be added
                            as they are received.

   Specialized Learning Tracks


   Acquisition Track Logo Acquisition
   The Acquisition Track will be composed of presentations on the
   acquisition of energy-related products and services, concentrating on
   areas which are currently of particular interest in the federal
   acquisition community. These will include energy savings performance
   contracting, green and energy efficient products procurement, DOD
   utility privatization and procurement of energy products and related
   services against GSA contracts.

   Electric Utility Deregulation logo Electric Utility Deregulation
   Utility companies have sold off generation plants; distribution is
   occurring differently state-by-state. Learn whats in store for you from
   your Public Utility Commission. Learn what distribution services may be
   offered from local distribution companies. Curious about Power Brokers?
   Learn the economics of generation. Ask questions during a no-holds
   panel discussion. This track will provide the latest information for
   your future electric purchases.

   Energy 101 Track logo Energy 101
   New energy managers, are you in the dark? Old energy dogs, learn new
   tricks and get back up to speed! Become a mission-critical person to
   your agency by learning the basics of energy management concepts. Learn
   about tools and resources for getting your facilitys needs and agency
   energy projects evaluated, financed, and managed. Gain skill in selling
   your ideas to your agencys procurement, legal, finance, and management
   staff. Find out how your peers are tackling their energy management
   issues and projects. You can do it, too.

   Facility Operations and Maintenance Track logo Facility Operations and
   Maintenance
   Facility managers are responsible for much more than just turning a
   building on or off and maintaining the facility equipment. In an era of
   budgetary tightening, high emphasis on customer service, and ever
   changing technologies, a facility manager must learn from others in the
   industry. This track will showcase real world examples of innovative
   approaches to Indoor Air Quality, Controls, Energy Audits,
   Commissioning, Measurement and Verification, and Water Efficiency.

   Laboratories and Industrial Facilities Track logo Laboratories &
   Industrial Facilities
   Laboratories and industrial facilities are often energy intensive and
   expensive to operate. Executive Order 13123 now requires agencies to
   reduce energy consumption in these facilities by 20% by 2005 and 25% by
   2010 relative to 1990. It also removed the exemption for most of these
   types of facilities. This track will help participants identify
   opportunities to improve the performance in energy intensive
   facilities. It will provide tools and case studies as well as introduce
   participants to resources including a new network of professionals
   involved in the Laboratories for the 21st Century.

   Project Financing Track logo Project Financing
   The Project Financing track will present intermediate and advanced
   level topics concerning alternative financing for federal energy
   projects. Sessions will include news you can use such as tools for
   making confident decisions on alternatively-financed projects, best
   practices, how to know you are getting the best interest rate for your
   project, agency policies impacting project financing and more. Basic
   intro to information on various project financing mechanisms will be
   available in the Energy 101 Track.

   Renewable Applications and Water Conservation Track logo Renewable
   Applications and Water Conservation
   Using renewable energy applications and water conservation strategies
   makes economic sense and is often the most cost-effective option in
   both new construction and building retrofits. Our presenters will
   examine a variety of successful applications including wind,
   geothermal, solar, biomass and other innovative technologies. We will
   look at system design, sizing, the nuts and bolts of each application,
   including financing alternatives, and what it takes to pull it all
   together for a successful project.

   Sustainable Building Design Track Logo Sustainable Building Design
   If youre a facility manager, do you want to learn how Executive Order
   13123, Sustainable Building Design requirements, have been implemented
   by your Federal peers? Want to learn actual strategies for recycled
   buildings? How old are your facilities? Step-by-step big building
   renovation for ISO 9000 compliance presentation; DDC/BACnet; Does your
   equipment talk to each other? Will you ever integrate all your
   facilities into your energy management computer program? Learn how-to
   for large and small facilities.

   Technology Track logo Technology
   Keeping up with technology and best practices is a continuous
   challenge. The sessions in this track provide an overview of
   technologies essential to an effective energy-efficiency program.
   Sessions will describe new and established technologies, provide
   essential information on their performance, success stories, what to
   avoid, and whats in the pipeline.

                      Energy 2001 Pre-Workshop Programs

                     Two optional pre-workshop programs
                        are offered on Sunday, June 3

   Energy 2001 Post-Workshop Programs

                     Two optional post-workshop programs
                      are offered Thursday and Friday,
                                 June 7 & 8

   Energy 2001 - An Energy-Efficiency Workshop and Exposition at the Hyatt
      Regency Crown Center in Kansas City, Missouri on June 3 - 6, 2001
