http://technology.jpl.nasa.gov/privacy.html


   [JPLnav_Black_Begin.gif] JPL Home Page JPL Home Page - Earth JPL Home
   Page - Solar System JPL Home Page - Stars and Galaxies JPL Home Page -
   Technology [JPLnav_Black_End.gif]
   Overview Announcements News Technology Gallery Technology Spotlight
   Awards Organization Education


   [techlogo_top.gif] Home Page Sitemap

   Go! __________
   [techlogo_bottom_new.gif]

   NASA Privacy Information This policy establishes how NASA will use
   information we gather about you from your visit to our website. The
   privacy of our customers is of utmost importance to NASA.

   If you visit a NASA site...
     * . . . to read or download information: We may collect and store
       information for statistical purposes. For example, we may count the
       number of visitors to the different sections of our site to help us
       make them more useful to visitors. Similar information is gathered
       for anonymous ftp, remote account login, or for other comparable
       types of connections.
     * . . . to send us an E-mail: By sending us an electronic mail
       message, you may be sending us personal information (e.g., name,
       address, E-mail address), as in an official Freedom of Information
       Act request. We may store the name and address of the requester in
       order to respond to the request or to otherwise resolve the subject
       matter of your E-mail.
     * . . . to register: Some of our sites ask visitors who request
       specific information to fill out a registration form. For example,
       vendors looking for marketing opportunities by visiting our
       Electronic Grants or NASA Acquisition Internet Service sites may be
       asked to "register" to obtain copies of Requests for Proposals or
       other NASA opportunities. Other information which may be collected
       at these sites through questionnaires, feedback forms, or other
       means, enable us to determine a visitor's interests, with the goal
       of providing better service to our customers.

   We want to be very clear: regardless of the information being
   transmitted to NASA, we will protect all such information consistent
   with applicable law.

   NASA Website Disclaimer Statement

          Thank you for visiting this NASA web site. NASA may provide
          links to web pages which are not part of the NASA web family, or
          nasa.gov domain. These sites are not under NASA control, and
          NASA is not responsible for the information or links you may
          find there. NASA is providing these links only as a convenience.
          The presence of these links on any NASA website is not intended
          to imply NASA endorsement of that site, but to provide a
          convenient link to relevant sites which are managed by other
          organizations, companies, or individuals.

   NASA Website Accessibility Statement

          The pages on this website have been reviewed and revised to be
          accessible to individuals with disabilities in accordance with
          provisions of Section 508 of the Workforce Investment Act and
          the Americans with Disabilities Act. If you are having a problem
          accessing a NASA website please let us know and we will work to
          ensure accessibility. If you have any difficulty viewing any
          page with adaptive technology, click here to let us know.

   Additional Information
     * JPL Picture Use Policy

   Copyright Information Privacy Statement Contact Information

   For more information on TAP programs at JPL, contact:
   Alice Wessen

   Last updated February 14, 2001

   For technical support on this page, contact:
   Cecelia Lawshe or Chris Hawley
