http://www.itl.nist.gov/div898/consult/consult.html

                             SED navigation bar

   Information About Statistical Collaboration and Consulting

      The Statistical Engineering Division seeks opportunities to collaborate
      with NIST staff on research projects where optimal experiment design,
      statistical modeling, and data analysis can play a significant role in
      improving measurement processes and gaining scientific insight. SED
      also provides general statistical consulting services to NIST
      scientists working in all aspects of NIST's mission.

      Specific SED contributions include:
        * Leadership in the establishment of a high standard of statistical
          practice within NIST via interactions with technical staff,
          publications, workshops, and seminars.
        * Design and analysis of experiments, and evaluation of measurement
          uncertainties for the NIST Standard Reference Materials (SRM) and
          Calibration Programs.
        * Design and analysis of experiments, and evaluation of protocols and
          processes associated with NIST scientific endeavors.
        * Support of NIST industrial clients engaged in the design and
          analysis of experiments.
        * Development of statistical and probabilisitic models for physical
          science and engineering applications.
        * Development of statistical methodology to enhance collaborative
          research with other NIST laboratories.
        * Advancement of statistical methodology via development of
          algorithms and software.
        * Transfer of statistically-based measurement methodology to industry
          through direct interactions with industrial clients, publications,
          workshops, and seminars.

      For further information, including help in initiating collaboration or
      consulting with SED staff, contact the Chief of the Statistical
      Engineering Division at x2839.

      Date created: 6/5/2001
      Last updated: 7/9/2001
      Please email comments on this WWW page to sedwww@cam.nist.gov.
