http://www.oc.ca.gov/supes/fourth/stateofcounty.htm

   Left Navigation Bar

   Center Image

   Supervisor, 4th District Cynthia P. Coad Logo

   State of the County Logo

   Board Homepage Link

   Mission Statement Link

   Biography Link

   Meet My Staff Link

   Contacting the Chair Link

   Photo Gallery Link

   Coad Report Link

   Press Releases Link

   State of the County Link

   Articles Link

   Links Link

   Map of District Link

   Awards/Congrats Link

   Text Only Version Link

                           Cynthia P. Coad, Ed.D.
                             Chair of the Board
                              January 16, 2002

   Fellow Board Members, Ladies and Gentlemen:
   Today I am privileged to deliver the annual State of the County
   Address, my second. Although only a year has passed, the world of
   January 2002 is very different than that of January 2001. Last year I
   noted the changes that occurred in this County in the hundred years
   between 1901 and 2001. Little did any of us know that the events of one
   day, September 11, 2001, would forever change the world, the nation,
   and Orange County. Last year we were a nation and County at peace,
   today we are at war.
   Once again men and women from Orange County are being called on to
   leave their families to defend our freedom.
   Last January we were celebrating unprecedented prosperity, today we are
   in an economic downturn. Last year a shortage of workers seemed to be a
   real possibility in some industries, particularly the tourism, travel
   and food service related businesses. Today tourism and travel are
   hurting and rising unemployment is a reality.
   So much change in such a short period of time. Dealing successfully
   with change requires flexibility and a continuity of vision. As you
   have heard me say before, my favorite Helen Keller quote is: "What good
   is sight, if you don't have vision?" My vision of a " business friendly
   and family friendly county" is just as valid today, if not more so,
   than it was a year ago.
   The cities and neighborhoods of Orange County are 3,000 miles from
   ground zero on the east coast, but as the events of 9/11 have
   demonstrated, all of our country is at risk from terrorist attacks.
   Katrina Marino 35, wife of missing firefighter Kenneth Marino of Rescue
   1, pictured with daughter Kristin, 3, and son Tyler, 1. Eleven
   firefighters from Rescue 1 responded to alarms. None returned. Katrina
   stated, "Kenny was listed as injured and I was very hopeful, but later
   they said it was a mistake. I try not to get upset front of the kids. I
   need to be there for them. My daughter has been an inspiration. It came
   to the point where I had to tell her Daddy's in heaven. She said,
   "Don't worry, Mommy, you've got me and Tyler."
   Many of us have had personal experiences associated with 9/11. My
   eldest son of my seven children is an eye surgeon with a clinic across
   the street from a lower Manhattan Fire Station. Seven firefighters from
   that station were killed . They were his friends.
   My husband and I had spent our 47th anniversary at the World Trade
   Center Marriott Hotel six weeks before the terrorist attacks. When we
   visited the site on Veteran's Day, there was no indication or
   recognizable structure to suggest that the hotel ever existed.
   F ortunately, there have been no credible threats against the County;
   nevertheless law enforcement agencies throughout the County went on a
   heightened state of alert to protect our residents. Immediately after
   the news of the attacks on New York and Washington, D.C. was known, the
   Sheriff activated the Emergency Operations Center which is now manned
   24 hours a day. At my request, the Sheriff's Department, Health Care
   Agency, District Attorney's Office, Fire Authority and the Federal
   Bureau of Investigation meet together regularly and are sharing
   important information.
   I am very proud of the way the whole County family sprang into action
   to protect the residents of Orange County. Quick and effective
   response, for example, enabled John Wayne Airport to reopen in the
   aftermath of 9/11, becoming the first commercial airport in California
   to be cleared by the Federal Aviation Administration. Recognizing the
   need to keep the public informed about the potential threat of
   terrorism and to dispel groundless rumors, the County Departments
   answered thousands of telephone calls with information and
   investigation when required.
   At my request, an informational brochure on terrorism was developed,
   which has been distributed to thousands of individuals, libraries,
   community centers, County offices, city police departments and other
   locales. It is also available on the County's Internet site. Our goal
   is to have an informed and vigilant public during this time of
   heightened national alert.
   While we must maintain vigilance, let us not forget that Orange County
   is a salad bowl of people of many racial, ethnic and religious
   backgrounds. Vigilance must be compatible with a healthy respect for
   diversity. There is no room in Orange County for stereotyping.
   As I look back on this past year, I am proud to be a member of this
   experienced Board. Yes, we have had our differences, but we have come
   together on most issues in the interest of the citizens of the County.
   We have demonstrated leadership.
   I want to recognize Supervisor Chuck Smith for his leadership in the
   area of International Business Development. The global economy is very
   important to Orange County and cultivating commercial ties to Pacific
   Rim countries, Canada and Mexico will reap economic rewards for years
   to come.
   Orange County has been blessed with an incomparable coastline. A
   magnificent 42 miles of beaches, bays, and marinas. Keeping the coastal
   waters clean so that all, resident and tourist alike, can enjoy them is
   a daunting task that will go on for years. Supervisors Jim Silva and
   Tom Wilson are to be commended for their aggressive leadership in this
   area. By obtaining money from the Clean Beaches Initiative, we are able
   to provide short-term mitigation for coastal pollution; long-term
   solutions are being studied and will require additional financial
   resources.
   I also want to thank Supervisor Silva for his work on behalf of the
   Santa Ana River flood control project. Supervisor Silva has established
   a very good working relationship with the Army Corps of Engineers and
   Congressional leaders. This is an excellent example of how experienced
   leadership played a vital role in securing federal funding to protect
   the County from the worst flood threat west of the Mississippi.
   There can be no more important function in a democracy than the voting
   process. Supervisor Todd Spitzer is to be commended for his aggressive
   leadership as Chairman of the Registration and Elections subcommittee.
   In that role, he led the charge to improve technologies used by the
   Registrar and to ensure that our elections are conducted with the
   highest amount of professionalism and credibility.
   Supervisor Spitzer's vision led to the recent adoption of the County
   Poll Worker program, which will fill the need for bilingual poll
   workers. His work in this area will have a long-term impact on the
   County.
   Achieving a Family Friendly County requires programs and initiatives
   that will go on for years. My special emphasis has been in the realm of
   neighborhood revitalization. I would like to mention a few of the
   programs that were still in their infancy last year.
   I am especially proud of the progress made in revitalizing the
   unincorporated County Islands. The Neighborhood Enhancement Team (NET)
   concept, which was just in its early stages at this time last year, has
   made great strides in empowering residents to take back possession of
   their neighborhoods from the drug dealers and gangs. Among the success
   stories is El Modena, an unincorporated island adjacent to the City of
   Orange. As a result of Community Oriented Policing, community code
   enforcement and partnership with the residents, crime has been reduced.
   Gang Prevention/Youth Development Programs are in their fourth
   successful year. The La Colonia community reports that gangs are gone!
   Neighborhoods not only need to be safe, they need to look safe in
   appearance, thus preventing the "broken window" syndrome which leads to
   crime and a lack of community pride.
   Local grass roots involvement is turning blighted neighborhoods into
   communities of hope. This effort will eventually increase property
   values in the community as well as in adjacent areas.
   Another successful program that not only enhances the quality of life
   in the unincorporated areas but also helps protect our beaches from
   pollution, is street sweeping, which I initiated two years ago.
   All the streets in the County ultimately drain into the Pacific Ocean.
   For example, diesel particles, battery acid and motor oil deposited on
   the streets during the dry months will end up at the beach when the
   rains come.
   Last fiscal year the streets in the unincorporated County were swept
   only once a month, and before that, never. This fiscal year, street
   sweeping has been increased to twice a month. Consequently, the monthly
   debris collection has risen from 70 tons per month to 92 tons per month
   in the first quarter of FY 2001-2002. Projecting that monthly volume
   over the whole fiscal year will result in the removal of about 1,100
   tons of debris. In addition, about 15,600 tons of debris were recovered
   from Flood Control channels, preparing them for winter storms and also
   preventing contamination from reaching the shore.
   There are many Neighborhood Revitalization projects that receive little
   attention but which enhance the quality of life in the County. Among
   them are family resource centers, expanded street lighting, road and
   street resurfacing, drainage projects and our new ordinance that
   provides for strict regulation of massage parlors in County Islands.
   A Business Friendly, Family Friendly County has to be safe. All the
   efforts to improve the quality of life in the unincorporated County
   areas, and for that matter anywhere in the County, would be useless
   without aggressive efforts to enhance public safety.
   The construction of the Theo Lacy Branch Jail, Phase II is complete.
   This expansion adds 509 much needed beds, including 125 hospital beds,
   to our jail system. The jail expansion will be fully operational by
   June 2002.
   Many of the inmates in our County jail system are substance abusers who
   will return to jail over and over again. Recognizing that, the Sheriff
   and I initiated, and the Board approved, "The Best Choice Program" for
   incarcerated men. This is a secured voluntary drug rehabilitation
   program that has resulted in slowing the "revolving door".
   A Family Friendly County ideally, would have affordable housing
   available for all its families. Orange County has a shortage of decent
   affordable housing; this Board recognized that, when it made Affordable
   Housing a top priority in the 2001 Strategic Financial Plan.
   Although we have a long way to go, considerable progress has been made
   in the last year. Since last January 2001, the Orange County Housing
   Authority (OCHA) assisted over 8,300 Orange County households with
   monthly rent payments through the Section 8 rental assistance program.
   Additionally, the County was successful in receiving $8.8 million in
   funds through the 2001 Homeless Continuum of Care Application process.
   This resulted in preserving 208 transitional beds and over 3,000
   supportive service opportunities for about 1,300 families and 600
   single individuals. Supervisors Smith and Wilson are to be commended
   for the time they have dedicated to addressing concerns about
   homelessness in Orange County.
   The Housing and Community Development Department also administers
   grants for homeowner assistance programs and low cost home improvement
   loans. These programs, which encourage home ownership and maintenance,
   have proven to be very beneficial in revitalizing communities.
   Yes, we have made progress towards achieving a Business Friendly and
   Family Friendly County, but many internal challenges remain such as the
   need for adequate jail capacity, more affordable housing, juvenile
   facilities, availability of health care, early reduction of the 1995
   Recovery Bond debt, neighborhood revitalization and watershed
   management, among others.
   Now, I would like to focus on the coming year. In addition to the
   internal challenges, which this Board has recognized through the annual
   Strategic Financial Planning process, there are external fiscal
   challenges looming for the County. If I could chose one word to
   describe those challenges, it would be uncertainty. Although the County
   has thus far avoided a serious recession, we have local businesses that
   are struggling with the current economic downturn and high energy
   costs. If the national recession lasts for a long period of time, it
   has the potential of stifling job growth and pushing Orange County in
   to a deeper recession.
   Most economists including Dr. Adibi of Chapman University, who prepares
   the forecast for the County's annual Strategic Financial Plan, are
   forecasting a short national recession with recovery beginning in the
   second quarter of this year. A big unknown is the War on Terrorism: the
   unexpected could make the recession worse and delay the recovery. On
   the other hand increased federal spending could help fuel job growth in
   Orange County as the federal government awards defense contracts to
   Southern California firms. Although unemployment in Orange County has
   risen since September 2001, it is still lower than that of California
   or the nation as a whole. The housing market, although slowing, is
   still showing positive growth in value.
   Clouding the County's future is the State Budget crisis. The State may
   be billions of dollars in the red. Sometimes a fiscal crisis in
   Sacramento translates into cuts and/or increased mandates for local
   government. We must be able to respond quickly to any change in State
   funding for the County. On January 10, 2002, the Governor presented his
   budget for FY 2002-2003. The County Executive Officer and the
   department heads are currently reviewing the proposed State Budget for
   local impacts.
   Compounding the external fiscal challenges is a recent court decision
   concerning the methodology used in determining real estate assessed
   valuation. Although some taxpayers may see refunds, this court
   challenge may negatively impact the County's property tax revenue,
   which may equate to reduced services.
   Serving on the Board of Supervisors requires us to provide both
   representation and leadership for our constituents. It also challenges
   us to effectively deal with difficult issues. Deciding the best reuse
   for the former Marine Corps Air Station (MCAS) El Toro is a prime
   example. On this issue we have legitimate differences as to what is
   best for all the residents of Orange County.
   Despite the ups and downs encountered during the most comprehensive
   environmental review and planning process ever undertaken by the
   County, the end result is something we should all be proud of: the
   certification of EIR 573 and the approval of the Airport System Master
   Plan (ASMP). It took seven years of hard work by our Board and the
   Local Redevelopment Agency (LRA) to accomplish this huge task..but with
   dedication and perseverance, we did it! The democratic process is
   pregnant and complicated but when allowed to go full term it is still
   the best in the world.
   We must always remember that this form of representative government was
   designed to benefit the greatest number of our County residents.
   Ok, so the future holds challenges for this Board and this County. That
   will always be the case. This year the challenges are shrouded by a
   great degree of uncertainty. While we can't prevent external
   challenges, we can manage them. We have the experience and we have the
   tools. These tools include annual business plans, the budget with
   measurable objectives and unique to Orange County, an annual strategic
   financial plan. A very wise man once said "One of the tests of
   leadership is the ability to recognize a problem before it becomes an
   emergency."
   The Strategic Financial Plan gives us the ability to recognize looming
   problems, before they become emergencies. The 2002 Strategic Financial
   Plan demonstrates that even without the impacts of 9/11, uses of
   general purpose revenue would outstrip sources, beginning in FY
   2006-2007. This "early warning" allows us to make reasoned "mid-course"
   corrections that will allow the County to avoid a meat axe approach to
   cost reductions, if the projected gap materializes. Now faced with
   external challenges not factored in to the 2001 forecast, the Strategic
   Financial Plan is a tool that will be used to manage those challenges.
   Teamwork makes it happen! We all play a large part in the success of
   the County and I want to express my appreciation to the efforts of the
   County Family the over 17,000 individuals dedicated to service and
   excellence. They are the "quiet heroes" who go about their business
   every day, carrying out the mission of the County and operating its
   core businesses: the office professionals, the groundskeepers, the
   engineers, the deputy district attorneys, the public defenders, the
   deputy sheriffs, the plumbers, the department heads, the janitors, the
   managers, the painters, the social workers and many others. I want to
   express my special thanks to this Board. I am proud to chair a Board of
   dedicated and experienced individuals who exemplify public service.
   I would also like to thank Supervisor Silva for his service this past
   year as Vice Chair and my congratulations to Supervisor Wilson on his
   election to Vice Chair for the coming year.
   We are all living through a time of great uncertainty, but also of
   hope. Today, once again our young people in the armed services are
   called on to fight and possibly sacrifice their lives in far away and
   dangerous places. Unlike in previous wars, we civilians too are on the
   front lines in the war against terrorism. The memorial service for the
   victims of 9/11, which was held on Friday, September 14th at the
   request of President Bush, demonstrated the unity of spirit in Orange
   County. I want to thank the veterans who enthusiastically helped
   organize the service on very short notice. These men and women who
   defended freedom in World War II, Korea, Vietnam and Desert Storm and
   who rightfully deserve to rest on their laurels, no doubt would fight
   again if they could.
   I would strongly warn our enemies to beware: the courage of ordinary
   Americans is a mighty powerful weapon in the war against terrorism! We
   know that Freedom isn't free!
   I look forward to serving on this Board in the coming years, meeting
   the challenges and making the decisions that will improve the quality
   of life for the residents of this very special place, Orange County,
   California. God bless you! God bless Orange County, and God bless
   America!
