http://www.ars.usda.gov/is/AR/archive/mar99/meth0399.htm

                        Agricultural Research Service
           U.S. Department of Agriculture ARS News and Information


                                  Contents


             ...From the pages of Agricultural Research magazine

                        Natural Plant Extracts Might
                           Sub for Methyl Bromide

                               [k8345-1i.jpg]
            Essence of peach sounds like a perfume or flavoring.

   It is, actually. But the scientific name for this colorless, nontoxic,
          aromatic liquid found in essential oils of peach seeds is
     "benzaldehyde." Many such volatile oils, like lemon, cinnamon, and
       peppermint, are extracted and distilled from plants. Naturally
    occurring benzaldehyde is used commercially in perfumes, flavorings,
                         pharmaceuticals, and dyes.

   But Charles L. Wilson, a plant pathologist at the ARS Appalachian Fruit
   Research Station in Kearneysville, West Virginia, has found a potential
    new use for this compound. He has been testing benzaldehyde and other
     natural plant volatiles as possible alternatives to methyl bromide
                                 fumigation.

    The research is collaborative with scientists from the Volcani Center
    in Bet Dagan, Israel, and the INFRUTEC Center for Fruit Technology at
      the Fruit, Vine, and Wine Research Institute of the Agricultural
               Research Council in Stellenbosch, South Africa.

   Methyl bromide is critical to agriculture worldwide as a soil fumigant,
     postharvest storage protectant, and quarantine treatment to control
    many pests on various crops. The primary use for this chemical is to
    fumigate soil to destroy soilborne pests. However, the escape of some
   of the fumigant from the soil into the atmosphere has led to its being
        declared an ozone depletor. So, under the U.S. Clean Air Act,
     production and importation of methyl bromide will be banned in the
                           United States in 2005.

    "For several years now, we've been diligently searching for practical
    and effective alternatives to methyl bromide," says ARS administrator
      Floyd P. Horn. "This fumigant is used on more than 100 crops. And
   differences in soil types, weather, importing country requirements, and
                  many other factors complicate the issue."

     "Our collaboration with industry, universities, state agencies, and
    international organizations is vitally important to our search," Horn
   says. "This joint work with Israel and South Africa could lead not only
      to viable alternatives to methyl bromide, but to jointly patented
                        commercial products as well."

      In lab studies at Kearneysville, Wilson and colleagues have found
      several natural plant volatiles that have fungicidal properties.

    "We protected fruit against postharvest decay with these compounds,"
   says Wilson. "We found one—benzaldehyde—to be particularly effective.
   Then we went a step further and used benzaldehyde to fumigate soil and
          found it very effective against several soil pathogens."

   This work is collaborative with Deborah R. Fravel, a plant pathologist
     with the ARS Biocontrol of Plant Diseases Laboratory in Beltsville,
   Maryland. Wilson and another associate, Jose Solar, have applied for a
     patent on a time-release formula of benzaldehyde to fumigate fruit,
                              grain, and soil.

    "Since it is inexpensive, easily biodegradable, and breaks down into
    products that aren't harmful to humans, animals, or the environment,
    benzaldehyde would be a desirable alternative to methyl bromide as a
                        soil fumigant," Wilson says.

   He and Fravel found that soil fumigated with benzaldehyde initially had
   significantly lower pH values. However, within 2 weeks, the pH returned
    to previous, nonfumigated, levels. Says Wilson, "This showed that the
    changes in soil pH are readily reversed and should not interfere with
                              crop production."

    Wilson and colleagues have found several natural plant volatiles that
    are effective against soilborne pathogens such as Fusarium oxysporum,
     Rhizoctonia solani, Pythium aphanidermatum, and Sclerotinia minor.

     To find potential alternatives to methyl bromide, more research is
      needed on the destructive, or biocidal, activity of natural plant
      compounds against a wide range of pathogens, insects, and weeds.

                      A Quick, Easy Test for Fumigants

   In addition to comparing the efficacy of natural fumigants in different
   soil types and different applications, scientists will need to evaluate
                       delivery systems, Wilson says.

    "The first order of business is to find, in the lab, the compound or
       combination of compounds that will control soilborne pests and
     diseases," he explains. "Then, we'll need to test these in soil and
   eventually begin field tests to complete the research. We already have
                       several interested companies."

    It is difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of fumigants on soil in
                   planting beds or greenhouse containers.

      To test a fumigant's effectiveness, large volumes of soil must be
   fumigated, and elaborate evaluation procedures need to be devised. With
     the help of Fravel, Wilson built an apparatus to quickly and easily
                 test soil fumigants against soil pathogens.

      "Simple to use, this equipment allows the soil to retain uniform
        amounts of a fumigant for a definite period. Once the soil is
     fumigated, it can be tested for pathogen activity," Wilson reports.

   Wilson and Fravel successfully used it to evaluate the effectiveness of
              benzaldehyde and nitrogen against soil pathogens.

                     Partnering Up To Find Alternatives

      Eli Shaaya, who is with the Department of Stored Products at the
     Volcani Center, works closely with Wilson on the search for natural
                compounds that might replace methyl bromide.

   He and colleagues have identified several essential oils extracted from
     herb and spice plants that have proven effective as fumigants. They
     have used these extracts to control the most common stored-product
   insects—the rice weevil, lesser grain borer, sawtoothed grain beetle,
                            and red flour beetle.

      Shaaya also found that several of the essential oils were active
             against cut-flower insects, including the whitefly.

   Wilson has also been working with Johan Combrink of INFRUTEC. Essential
     oils from indigenous South African plants are now being marketed as
                       flavor and fragrance compounds.

                               [k8343-1i.jpg]
   "These oils could also provide a rich source of new compounds that may
     fumigate soil, agricultural commodities, and physical structures,"
                                Wilson says.

   Combrink and colleagues are seeking natural plant compounds that fight
   Botrytis cinerea, Penicillium expansum, Mucor piriformis, and Rhizopus
    nigricans—pathogens that attack pome fruit, such as apples. They are
                       now controlled with chemicals.

   When the research project gets in full swing in South Africa, Combrink
    and colleagues plan to test natural compounds on controlling weevils,
        the dried fruit moth, and mites on dried fruit. They'll also
   investigate controlling the root-knot nematode—a worldwide pest and one
      of the most significant nematode pests—on a wide range of crops,
     including stone fruits and vegetables. They will also test natural
   compounds on the ring nematode, a serious pest of stone fruit and peach
   orchards not only in South Africa, but in Georgia and South Carolina as
                                    well.

    In addition, they will fumigate with new natural compounds to control
    Fusarium wilt on melons, root rot on strawberries, Phytophthora root
     rot on citrus, replant syndrome on apples, clubroot on cabbage, and
                       damping-off on vegetable crops.

      Two South African companies, Ulimocor and the Ciskei Agricultural
      Corporation, are interested in this research, as is the Maktishim
   Chemical Company in Israel. Wilson has also been talking with a couple
                  of U.S. companies about research results.

                        A Reprieve for Methyl Bromide

     Legislation passed with the FY 1999 Agriculture Appropriations Bill
     delays the ban on methyl bromide because U.S. growers have very few
       viable alternatives to this heavily relied-on chemical. The new
    legislation ensures that regulations governing U.S. use, production,
        import, or export of methyl bromide are no more stringent or
    restrictive than those required by the Montreal Protocol. Instead of
    the earlier January 1, 2001, target cutoff date, U.S. growers may now
                       use methyl bromide until 2005.

    "This reprieve makes our research even more critical, Wilson says. It
     gives us a little more time to find and test more natural compounds
   that may replace methyl bromide." —By Doris Stanley Lowe, Agricultural
                     Research Service Information Staff.

    This research is part of Methyl Bromide Alternatives, an ARS National
                 Program described on the World Wide Web at
               http://www.nps.ars.usda.gov/programs/cppvs.htm.

       Charles L. Wilson is at the USDA-ARS Appalachian Fruit Research
    Station, 45 Wiltshire Rd., Kearneysville, WV 25430-9425; phone (304)
                     725-3451, X330, fax (304) 728-2340.

   "Natural Plant Extracts Might Sub for Methyl Bromide" was published in
           the March 1999 issue of Agricultural Research magazine.

                   Top | Editorial staff | Subscriptions

         Bottom menu

         Home | News | Pubs | Magazine | Photos | Sci4Kids | Search
         About ARS Info | Site map | Policies | E-mail us
