http://levin.senate.gov/releases/012802pr1.htm

   HOME


                          Carl Levin Press Release


   FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
   January 28, 2002                        CONTACT: Press Office
                         http://levin.senate.gov
                         202-224-6221

              Levin Web Site Named One of the Best in Congress
            http://levin.senate.gov receives "Silver Mouse Award"

   WASHINGTON The web site of Senator Carl Levin, D-Mich., today was named
   one of the 35 best sites on Capitol Hill by the Congress Online
   Project. The site, http://levin.senate.gov, received a Congress Online
   Silver Mouse Award for its comprehensive issue information. The
   Congress Online Project is a joint research project of the
   Congressional Management Foundation and the George Washington
   University and is funded by a grant from the Pew Charitable Trusts.

   According to the CMF report, Congress Online: Assessing and Improving
   Capitol Hill Web Sites, "Senator Levin's Web site is thorough and
   informative, and it provides some of the most comprehensive issue
   information we found on a congressional Web site. The home page
   features links to information on 25 current and committee-related
   issues. Each issue page explores a topic in detail in the first person
   and describes the Senator's position and work he has done on the issue.
   Links to additional resources, such as press releases, statements,
   audio and video clips, and external links are also frequently included
   to enable visitors to learn more, if they choose. Thus, the Senator
   provides his audiences with ample resources to understand his stance on
   the issues and collect the information they need to form their own
   opinions."

   "I view my web site as my online office," said Levin. "Through my site
   I am able to communicate directly with the people of Michigan about the
   crucial issues we are facing. I am honored that the Congress Online
   Project has recognized my web site, and we'll keep working to make it
   even better."

   The Congressional Management Foundation surveyed 605 web sites in
   Congress, including the sites of all senators, representatives and
   committees as well as the House and Senate leadership web sites. Only
   10% of congressional web sites received a grade of A or B while the
   other 90% received grades of C, D or F.

   The Congressional Management Foundation is a nonpartisan, nonprofit
   organization that provides management publications, programs and
   services to House and Senate offices. The report may be found at
   http://www.congressonlineproject.org.

                                    # # #

                                [brblgrv.gif]

        Carl's Bio* Photo Gallery* Michigan Services* Senate Activity

            Press Page* Federal Links* Student Info* Contact Carl
