http://developers.ivv.nasa.gov/collab/pubs/bulletin/vol4/ltp_1199.pdf

   Volume 4 Number 11 Supporting NASA's LTP November 1999 NewsBytes LDAPS
   Activities around Nation The LDAPS curriculum is in the pro- Ben Erwin
   cess of becoming a part of the curriculum berwin@tufts.edu of the
   Boston Public School System and many other schools across the country.
   NASA Quest's LTC Distributing Elementary school parents of LDAPS
   teachers in Lincoln, MA, got a taste of what Programs via RealMedia
   Servers it's like to design and program with LEGO Aviation Academy 2000
   Alive and at a hands-on parent night session. Parents Well Kate
   Weisberg designed a Mars colony that could sustain
   kweisberg@mail.arc.nasa.gov human life and that their kids will finish
   as a Tom D. Schieffer part of their curriculum. tschieff@mecca.org NASA
   Quest's LTC has been distribut- The LDAPS site is being transported ing
   three major programming series via Live- from West Virginia to NASA
   Ames in Cali- Aviation Academy 2000 grantees are On-The-Net's network
   of RealMedia serv- fornia, where it will join other robotics Web alive
   and doing fine. The high school classes ers. The 1999-2000 series
   events (All About sites such as http://robotics.arc.nasa.gov. are
   flying twice a year and Wooddale will the Sun, a cooperative program
   with At an event called Mindfest at the MIT start its second Aviation
   Ground School in Stanford SOLAR Center; Countdown, Media Lab, LEGO
   software and curriculum January 2000. Landing to Launch, a Space Team
   Online ideas developed by LDAPS members were We are assisting Women In
   Aviation, and Kennedy Space Center effort; and NASA on display and a
   part of panel discussions International with their national conference,
   Connect, from Langley Research Center at
   http://www.tufts.edu/~berwin/mind which will be held in Memphis from
   March [LaRC]) have all been big hits. The first in- fest/. LDAPS
   members are also coaching 9 - 11, 2000. The Wooddale Aviation Advi-
   troduction of the series events brought an es- two teams in the FIRST
   LEGO league this sory Group will make a presentation to the timated
   25,000 hits to each of the pages and season. The teams will be at the
   Museum of assembly and the visiting educators will be as many as 2,000
   streams per program. Science on December 4 for the state tour- given a
   tour of the NASA-Wooddale Avia- nament! tion and Travel Program at the
   campus. othin' N know exactly what you're looking for, just the parts.
   This allows the search engine to about any search engine will do. Say
   you're search for all parts and will only return links but Net looking
   for NASA Web sites but you don't that include all parts of your search.
   You can know any URLs. Go to any search engine also use OR in your
   search statements. Us- Search Engines: (like Yahoo) and type what
   you're looking ing OR instead of AND in your search will How to Know
   Which to Use for in quotes ("NASA"). This will give you give you
   results that include either part of a place to start looking. A lot of
   simple the requested query. searches can be done in this fashion, but
   The question still lingers about which Rudy Hoffert some things are a
   little harder to find. search engine to use. One of the most use-
   rhoffert@rspac.ivv.nasa.gov Putting what you're looking for in ful
   search engines is Dogpile.com. Dogpile quotes tells the search engine
   to search for searches several search engines for you, and Yahoo, Alta
   Vista, Dogpile, that exact string of words. If you're looking it's
   really helpful to know that all the infor- NorthernLight,
   WebCrawler...which one do for multiple things, just putting your search
   mation you are looking for isn't only on one you use? There are so many
   different search in quotes won't always work. Breaking the domain. If
   you search with Yahoo.com you engines on the World Wide Web that choos-
   words up can help. Put each part of the may miss information on
   About.com and ing one can almost be impossible. If you search into
   quotes and use AND between (continued on page 2) othin' www.lycos.com N
   categorizes the results. This can make find- www.altavista.com but Net
   ing the information for your research paper www.yahoo.com much easier.
   www.whatuseek.com www.northernlight.com (contineud from page 1) Most
   search engines work the same way, so choosing one can be difficult. The
   best www.excite.com vice-versa. Dogpile searches twelve differ- advice
   I can give is to just try them all and www.webcrawler.com ent search
   engines, giving you a better when you find one you like, stick to it.
   When chance of finding what you want. a new search engine surfaces,
   don't forget Sometimes Dogpile can give over- to try it too. Here are
   some search engines to If you would like to be on the LTP whelming
   results. You may need some in- try now. Happy surfing! Bulletin mailing
   list, please send e- formation for a research paper and with mail to
   John S. Trent III at: Dogpile the query results can be too much
   www.looksmart.com jtrent@rspac.ivv.nasa.gov, or write to look through
   to find what you need. You www.goto.com to: TRW/RSPAC, 100 University
   might end up asking yourself, "Where do I www.directhit.com Drive,
   Fairmont, WV 26554. start?" This can be a bad thing. One of the
   www.about.com Phone: (304) 367-8347, fax: (304) newer search engines on
   the Web is www.centraal.com 367-8377. Northernlight.com. It searches
   the Web and infoseek.go.com News from awarded $6,000 will be
   "disadvantaged," as grant-winning schools. In all, more than 300 NASA
   defined by the US Department of Education. schools will participate in
   the games. Each winning school will receive a $5,000 FIRST's Web site
   is at http://www. credit toward registration fees. The grant will
   usfirst.org/. NASA to Grant $480,000 to also provide about $1,000 to
   each winning Detailed requirements of the robotic games will be
   carefully guarded until they Inspire High School Youth school for
   lodging and travel to the national are announced at the kickoff
   ceremony. Fol- lowing the ceremony, students and their ad- John Bluck
   visors will design and construct remote con- Jbluck@mail.arc.nasa.gov
   trol robots in six weeks using identical kits of materials. Advisors
   are often professional NASA is providing $480,000 in grants engineers
   from private industry, government, to 80 high schools across the nation
   in a and universities. unique robotics program to inspire students NASA
   is awarding a total of 80 grants to follow careers in science and
   technology. to the schools, with 20 grants in four of The challenge for
   students from each FIRST's ten regions. The four NASA regions of the
   approximately 300 competing schools include the NASA Langley/Virginia
   Com- is to design a robot to accomplish a series monwealth University
   (VCU) region, the of tasks quickly and efficiently. The robots
   Southeast region, the Lone Star region, and are then allowed to compete
   in an arena set- the NASA Ames region. ting to determine a winner. In
   the NASA Ames region, student- "During the next few decades NASA made
   robots will "clash" in competitions to will be launching a fleet of
   automated ro- robotics games "kickoff" ceremony to be be held March 30
   - April 1, 2000, at the San bots to explore the solar system. We want
   held January 8, 2000, in Manchester, NH. Jose State University Event
   Center in San to empower the next generation of students The grant
   money will be paid to the non- Jose, CA. This region includes Alaska,
   Ari- to be the designers of these intelligent ma- profit organization
   For Inspiration and Rec- zona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho,
   chines," said Mark León of NASA's Ames ognition of Science and
   Technology (FIRST) Montana, Nevada, Oregon, Utah, Washing- Research
   Center at Moffett Field, CA. of Manchester, NH. It will provide a basic
   ton, and Wyoming. NASA engineers will evaluate the ap- robot parts kit,
   a remote control, and other The NASA-sponsored Southeast re- plications
   and winners will be notified by e- necessary items to each grantee.
   FIRST will gional games will take place at the Kennedy mail no later
   than December 3, according also arrange travel to the kickoff ceremony
   to organizers. Half of the schools to be for one representative from
   each of the 80 (continued on page 3) page 2 LTP Bulletin Highlights
   nior executives a rare opportunity to net- work with industry
   luminaries, to learn, and & Happenings GII awards and the Council for
   Internet Commerce. "The GII awards are the to discuss the role of the
   Internet in their world's leading forum to define, recognize,
   businesses' future. and promote best practices and new mod- "From a
   Distance" Named SSC's "From A Distance" Web site els in the application
   of Internet and net- (http://education.ssc.nasa.gov/ltp) was work
   technology." Semifinalist for GII Award developed through NASA's
   Learning Tech- The fourth annual GII awards recog- nologies Project and
   features lesson plans nize achievement in 10 categories central Ken
   Christian created by classroom teachers about re- to the way people
   live, work, and play: Arts Kenneth.Christian@ssc.nasa.gov & Culture;
   Children; Commerce; Commu- nity; Education; Entertainment; Govern- John
   C. Stennis Space Center's (SSC) ment; Health; Netpreneur; and News &
   "From a Distance" Web site was recently Media. recognized as a leader
   in the digital revo- The GII awards program is a non-par- lution when
   SSC Education & University tisan, private-sector initiative sponsored
   by Affairs was named as a semifinalist for a leading corporations,
   organizations, pub- Global Information Infrastructure (GII) lishers,
   and government agencies. The GII award. Semifinalists are recognized
   for awards program is dedicated to helping their innovative use of
   technology to im- people reach new levels of prosperity, prove business
   and society. community, and health in the Communi- The GII awards,
   sponsored by Ziff- cations Age by learning from others whose Davis
   (ZD), will be presented on Decem- efforts and accomplishments serve as
   mod- ber 14 at a gala event in San Francisco in els of excellence. Vice
   President Al Gore conjunction with ZD Studios' has described the awards
   as "...an inno- Nextravaganza. This conference will fea- mote sensing,
   GPS, and GIS. The lesson vation that is important to our future." The
   ture Internet experts, visionaries, and ce- plans make use of Internet
   resources and GII awards is currently the world's lead- lebrities
   exploring the developments, chal- are tied to the National Education
   Stan- ing forum to define, recognize, and pro- lenges, and
   opportunities of the Internet dards framework. mote best practices and
   new models in the in the new millennium in an enlightening "The GII
   awards honor people in all application of Internet and network tech-
   and entertaining environment. The unique areas of society and industry
   who use the nology. format of an established and respected Internet to
   create extraordinary results, Additional information about the GII
   awards celebration combined with a from making money to making a
   differ- awards category semifinalists is available thought-provoking
   conference offers se- ence," said James Hake, founder of the at
   http://www.gii.com. News from The deadline for application is Novem-
   Technology Professor Woodie Flowers' en- ber 30, 1999. NASA will accept
   all applica- NASA gineering design course. tions via the Internet at
   http://robotics. Tom Dyson (650/604-6601) and Joseph (continued from
   page 2) nasa.gov/. Hering (650/604-2008), both of Ames, have Regional
   winners are eligible to compete additional information about the NASA-
   Space Center in Florida from March 9 - 11, in the national championship
   robotic games FIRST regional robotics games. 2000. The Lone Star games
   will be at the to be held April 6 - 8, 2000, at Walt Disney Astro Arena
   in Houston, TX, from March World's EPCOT Center in Orlando, FL. The 16
   - 18, 2000, and are sponsored by NASA's national games require an
   additional regis- Johnson Space Center in Houston, TX. tration fee.
   This bulletin will also be available in NASA's Langley Research Center
   in Hamp- FIRST was started in 1989 by inventor Adobe Acrobat format on
   the Develop- ton, VA, will sponsor the Langley/VCU re- Dean Kamen to
   persuade American youth ers' Workshop Web site at: http:// gional games
   March 16 - 18, 2000, at Vir- that engineering and technology are excit-
   developers.ivv.nasa.gov/collab/pubs/ ginia Commonwealth University in
   Rich- ing fields. The annual robotics competition bulletin/ mond, VA.
   is patterned after Massachusetts Institute of page 3 LTP Bulletin
   NASA's Learning Technologies Project (LTP) Bulletin is a monthly
   publication produced by the Remote Sensing Public Access Center
   (RSPAC). RSPAC is a cooperative project of NASA's Office of Aeronau-
   tics' High Performance Computing and Communications (HPCC) program,
   TRW, and West Virginia Uni- versity. RSPAC is located at the NASA
   Software Independent Verification and Validation (IV&V) facility in
   Fairmont, West Virginia. RSPAC/TRW WVU/NASA IV&V Facility 100
   University Drive Fairmont, WV 26554 November 1999 ADDRESS CORRECTION
   REQUESTED
