http://www.edsitement.neh.gov/about.html

   [USEMAP:titlebar_new.gif]

   Young Boy Studying -- About EDSITEment
   Home
   Search
   Disclaimer

   About EDSITEment
   EDSITEment is the product of a partnership forged in Spring 1997 among
   the National Endowment for the Humanities, the Council of the Great
   City Schools, WorldCom Foundation and the National Trust for the
   Humanities.

   The purpose of EDSITEment is to offer a gateway for teachers, students,
   and parents searching for high-quality material on the Internet in the
   subject areas of literature and language arts, foreign languages, art
   and culture, and history and social studies.

   All sites linked to EDSITEment have been reviewed for content, design,
   and likely impact in the classroom. They cover a wide range of
   humanities subjects, from American history to literature, world history
   and culture, language, art, and archaeology, and have been judged by
   humanities specialists to be of high intellectual quality. EDSITEment
   is not intended to represent a complete curriculum in the humanities,
   nor does it prescribe any specific course of study.

   The EDSITEment experience includes:
     * a user-friendly website with links to over 100 of the top
       humanities sites
     * online lesson plans which bring EDSITEment to life for teachers,
       students, and their families.

   EDSITEment was selected as one of five finalists in the Education and
   Academia category of a Computerworld Smithsonian award for Innovation
   Network. As a finalist, the EDSITEment website has been accepted into
   the Smithsonian Institution's Permanent Research Collection of
   Information Technology. The permanent collection is the world's premier
   historical record of computing applications and innovations. Finalists
   demonstrate clearly how information technology is being used to improve
   society.


   Subtopics
   Conditions of Use
   Criteria for Selecting Sites
   Disclaimer
   EDSITEment Partners
   Nomination and Review Process
   Peer Review Panelists
   Privacy
