http://propulsid.laed.uscourts.gov/Orders/order16.pdf

   UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA : MDL NO.
   1355 IN RE: PROPULSID : PRODUCTS LIABILITY LITIGATION : SECTION: L ::
   JUDGE FALLON : MAG. JUDGE AFRICK :: .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
   .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. : THIS DOCUMENT RELATES
   TO ALL CASES PRE TRIAL ORDER NO. 16 (ESTABLISHING PLAINTIFFS'
   LITIGATION EXPENSE FUND TO COMPENSATE AND REIMBURSE ATTORNEYS FOR
   SERVICES PERFORMED AND EXPENSES INCURRED FOR COMMON BENEFIT) This order
   is entered to provide for the fair and equitable sharing among
   plaintiffs of the cost of special services performed and expenses
   incurred by attorneys acting for the common benefit of all plaintiffs
   in this complex litigation. 1. Plaintiffs Litigation Expense Fund to be
   Established. Plaintiffs' Liaison Counsel (Russ M. Herman) and
   Defendants' Liaison Counsel (James B. Irwin) are directed to establish
   an interest-bearing account to receive and disburse funds as provided
   in this order. Counsel shall agree on and designate an escrow agent for
   this purpose. These funds will be held as funds subject to the
   direction of the Court. No party or attorney has any individual right
   to any of these funds except to the extent of amounts directed to be
   disbursed to such person by order of the Court. These funds will not
   constitute the separate property of any party or attorney or be subject
   to garnishment or attachment for the debts of any party or attorney
   except when and as directed to be disbursed as provided by court order
   to a specific person. These limitations do not preclude a party or
   attorney from transferring, assigning, or creating a security interest
   in potential disbursements from the fund if permitted by applicable
   state laws and if subject to the conditions and contingencies of this
   order. 2. Assessment. (a) All plaintiffs and their attorneys who,
   either agree or have agreed  for a monetary consideration  to settle,
   compromise, dismiss, or reduce the amount of a claim or, with or
   without a trial, recover a judgment for monetary damages or other
   monetary relief, including such compensatory and punitive damages, with
   respect to a Cisapride (Propulsid) claim are subject to an assessment
   of the "gross monetary recovery," as provided herein. (b) Defendants
   are directed to withhold this assessment from amounts paid to
   plaintiffs and their counsel, and to pay the assessment directly into
   the fund as a credit against the settlement or judgment. If for any
   reason the assessment is not or has not been so withheld, the plaintiff
   and his counsel are jointly responsible for paying the assessment into
   the fund promptly. (c) No orders of dismissal of any plaintiffs claim,
   subject to this order, shall be filed unless accompanied by a
   certificate of plaintiffs and defendants counsel that the assessment
   has been withheld and deposited into the fund. (d) The Plaintiff's
   Steering Committee shall provide Defendants' Liaison Counsel,
   plaintiff's counsel, the escrow agent, the Court or its designee with a
   list of cases and/or counsel 2 who have entered into written agreements
   with the Plaintiff's Steering Committee. In the event there is a
   dispute as to whether a case should be on the list, the Plaintiff's
   Steering Committee shall resolve the matter with the particular
   plaintiff's counsel either informally or upon motion. (e) In measuring
   the "gross monetary recovery": (1) Exclude court costs that are to be
   paid by the defendant. (2) Exclude any payments to be made by the
   defendant on an intervention asserted by third-parties, such as to
   physicians, hospitals, and other health-care providers in subrogation
   related to treatment of plaintiff. (3) Include the present value of any
   fixed and certain payments to be made in the future (except that, in
   lieu thereof, a plaintiff may agree to be assessed the appropriate
   percentage when and as future payments are received). (f) This
   obligation: (1) Applies to all cases now pending, or later filed in,
   transferred to, or removed to, this court and treated as part of the
   coordinated proceeding known as In re: Propulsid Products Liability
   Litigation including cases later remanded to a state court. The
   assessment in such cases shall be six (6) percent of the "gross
   monetary recovery," except for those cases described in subsections 3
   and 4 below. (2) Applies to other federal Cisapride (Propulsid) cases
   which are not transferred to this court under MDL-1355 or which are
   transferred back to a transferor court by this Court or by the MDL
   panel for further proceedings. The 3 assessment in such cases shall be
   six (6) percent of the "gross monetary recovery," except for those
   cases described in subsections 3 and 4 below. (3) Applies to cases in a
   state court to the extent so ordered by the presiding judge of that
   court, or in the event a state court plaintiff, through counsel,
   consents, by written agreement with the Plaintiff's Steering Committee
   or Plaintiff's Liaison Counsel, to be subject to an MDL fee assessment.
   The assessment in such state court cases is limited to four (4) percent
   of the "gross monetary recovery." (4) Shall not apply to cases removed
   from state court to federal court and then remanded to state court
   (based upon an order of improper removal) that have not at any time
   been transferred to MDL-1355. (g) Relief from obligation. The Court
   reserves the right to relieve, wholly or partly, a plaintiff from the
   obligation of this order upon a showing of exceptional circumstances.
   3. Disbursements. (a) Upon order of the Court, payments may be made
   from the fund to attorneys who provide services or incur expenses for
   the joint and common benefit of plaintiffs in addition to their own
   client or clients. Attorneys eligible are limited to Plaintiffs'
   Liaison Counsel and members of the Plaintiffs' Steering Committee, and
   other attorneys called upon by them to assist in performing their
   responsibilities, State Liaison Counsel, and other attorneys performing
   similar responsibilities in state court actions in which the presiding
   state court judge has imposed similar obligations upon plaintiffs to
   contribute to this fund. All time and expenses are subject to proper
   and timely submission (each 4 month) of contemporaneous records
   certified to have been timely received by Wegmann Dazet & Company in
   accord with this Court's prior orders. (b) Payments will be allowed
   only to companies for special services performed, and to reimburse for
   special expenses incurred, for the joint and common benefit of all
   plaintiffs. (c) Payment may, for example, be made for services and
   expenses related to the obtaining, reviewing, indexing and paying for
   hard copies or computerized images of documents from the defendants; to
   conducting "national" or "state" depositions; and to activities
   connected with the coordination of federal and state litigation. The
   fund will not, however, be used to pay for services and expenses
   primarily related to a particular case, such as the deposition of a
   treating physician, if such activity results in some incidental and
   consequential benefit to other plaintiffs. (d) Payments will not exceed
   the fair value of the services performed or the reasonable amount of
   the expenses incurred, and, depending upon the amount of the fund, may
   be limited to a part of the value of such services and expenses. (e) No
   amounts will be disbursed without review and approval by the Court or
   such other mechanism as the Court may order. Defense Counsel shall
   provide at least quarterly notice to the Court or its designee the
   names and docket numbers of the cases for which it has made an
   assessment. Details of any individual settlement agreement, individual
   settlement amount and individual amounts deposited into escrow shall be
   confidential and shall not be disclosed to the Plaintiff's Steering
   Committee, the Court, 5 or the Court's designee, however, the monthly
   statements from the escrow agent shall be provided to Plaintiff's
   Liaison Counsel, Defense Liaison Counsel, the Court, and the Court's
   designee showing only the aggregate of the monthly deposits,
   disbursements, interest earned, financial institution charges, if any,
   and current balance. (f) If the fund exceeds the amount needed to make
   payments as provided in this order, the Court may order a refund to
   those who have contributed to the fund. Any such refund will be made in
   proportion to the amount of the contributions. 4. Modification. The
   Court reserves the power to modify the terms of this order, but no
   changes imposing any additional burden or obligation on plaintiffs in
   actions in a state court that has imposed this obligation on such
   parties will be made without the approval of the presiding state court
   judge. NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA, this 26th day of December, 2001. /s/
   Eldon E. Fallon UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT JUDGE 6
