http://eeirc.nwrc.gov/pubs/e-newsletter/news02.htm

   Energy & Environmental Information Resources Center
   e-Newsletter #2, March 1999

   e-newsletter_banner_small.gif (2254 bytes)

  1. EE-IR Center Joins CORC
  2. Integrating CORC
  3. New EE-IR Center Metadata
  4. EE-IR Center Presentation at LA. RS/GIS Workshop
  5. Dan Foley Presents at LLA
  6. Feature: Review of AQUIRE and TOXNET Databases

    [1. EE-IR Center Joins CORC ]

   Metadata for Internet Resources by Dan Foley, Metadata Librarian

   The EE-IR Center is one of thirty-six libraries participating in the
   Cooperative Online Resource Catalog (CORC) project, an initiative of
   the Online Computer Library Center (OCLC) to develop software tools for
   the creation of shared metadata for Internet resources.

   CORC focuses on the creation of metadata in both Dublin Core (DC) and
   USMARC formats. Dublin Core is a metadata standard of fifteen optional
   and repeatable elements that is rapidly emerging as an international
   standard for description of Internet resources. USMARC was developed by
   the Library of Congress and is currently used in WorldCat, a
   bibliographic database of over 40 million records created by more than
   25,000 libraries worldwide. WorldCat is maintained by OCLC.

   One of the principal objectives of CORC is the integration of DC and
   USMARC into a single system. Other CORC features being tested at the
   EE-IR Center and other participating libraries include: editing
   metadata records via DC and USMARC views; import/export of DC and
   USMARC records; import/export using the Resource Description Framework
   with XML; automatic keyword extraction; authority control for name and
   subject keywords; and automated data extraction.

   The EE-IR Center, other participating libraries [for example,
   University of Chicago, MIT, St. Joseph County Public Library, Nebraska
   Library Commission, Smithsonian Institute, Colorado Alliance of
   Research Libraries], and OCLC communicate via an e-mail list (CORC-L).
   Two or more working meetings are also planned. The CORC project began
   last month and is expected to continue for 12 to 18 months, until
   testing and development are completed, when CORC software will become
   available to all OCLC member libraries.

   References:

   1) CORC-Cooperative Online Resources Catalog:
   http://www.oclc.org/oclc/research/projects/corc/

   2) Dublin Core Metadata Initiative: http://www.purl.org/DC/

    [2. Integrating CORC ]

   The collection building function of the EE-IR Center is currently
   undergoing a metamorphous. Since we switched from using a Web form
   located in Sweden to a Java servlet-based system created as a research
   project at the Online Computer Library Center (OCLC), our workflow in
   the library has changed. The CORC system we now use is more
   sophisticated. It allows us to switch between Dublin Core metadata view
   (15 elements) to the established, more complicated, USMARC view. USMARC
   is the metadata standard used across the country in libraries.

   We sent all of our EE-IR Center Dublin Core (DC) type metadata to OCLC,
   and they are in the process of importing our records into the
   experimental CORC system. Once there, we will be able to export them
   back out as either MARC or DC versions, or use them to create what they
   call "pathfinders". In the months ahead, CORC is expected to have the
   ability to export into other formats, such as XML.

   CORC does not at this time have the capacity to work with the Federal
   Geographic Data Committee (FGDC) metadata standard. The EE-IR Center
   librarians are working with Dr. Aladdin Hafez of CACS on a tool to
   convert from FGDC to MARC or DC. A DC to MARC version of this converter
   is nearly finished; adding FGDC as an import standard is straight
   forward, and should be completed soon. From there we will do testing
   and hopefully offer it to others later this year, perhaps as a
   Java-based tool that institutions creating FGDC metadata may use to
   convert their records to the most widely used metadata standard, MARC.

    [3. Newest EE-IR Center Metadata ]

   Atlantic Oceanographic and Meteorological Laboratory, Hurricane
   Research Division. http://eeirc.nwrc.gov/metadata/10.htm

   1995 Aerial Photography for the State of Louisiana Coastal Parishes.
   http://eeirc.nwrc.gov/metadata/125.htm

   Astronomical High Tide Line for Louisiana Oil Spill Contingency Plan
   Map. http://eeirc.nwrc.gov/metadata/126.htm

   Photofinder. http://eeirc.nwrc.gov/metadata/127.htm

   MapFinder. http://eeirc.nwrc.gov/metadata/128.htm

    [4. EE-IR Center Presentation at LA. RS/GIS Workshop ]

   Suzanne Harrison and Larry Handley will be speaking together at the
   1999 Louisiana Remote Sensing and Geographic Information Systems
   Workshop. The annual event will again be held in the Cajundome here in
   Lafayette, 13-15 April. Registration information and other details are
   available at: http://rac.usl.edu/rsgis/index.html .

    [5. Dan Foley Presents at LLA ]

   On Thursday, 18 March, Dan Foley presented a talk at the annual
   Louisiana Library Association conference in Baton Rouge. The title was
   "What is Metadata? Generalities, Dublin Core, and Geospatial Metadata".

    [6. Feature: Review of AQUIRE and TOXNET Databases ]

   by Judy Buys, Reference Librarian

   The Internet continues to make data freely available to the public.
   Until this month the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) AQUIRE
   database was searchable only through commercial database vendors such
   as DIALOG or the National Technical Information Services and by paying
   online connect charges plus a charge for items retrieved. Passwords
   were assigned to Federal researchers by written request. AQUIRE is now
   freely available as part of the Ecotox databases at
   http://www.epa.gov/ecotox. EPA has taken information that is
   complicated to find and made it very accessible. Ecotox is three
   databases; the other databases, PHYTOTOX and TERRETOX will be freely
   available and updated at the end of 1999. If you need search results
   from these databases, please contact the EE-IR Center. TERRETOX contain
   information on toxicity to terrestrial wildlife, and PHYTOTOX is
   primarily toxicity to agricultural chemicals by terrestrial plants.

   AQUIRE (AQUatic toxicity Information REtrieval) is used as a reference
   database for information on the toxicity to aquatic plants and animals
   and as a risk assessment tool to evaluate and prioritize the hazards of
   industrial chemicals and pesticides for impact assessments of effluent
   and leachate discharges.

   The database was started in 1970 and now has more than 177,000
   individual test records for approximately 6,500 chemicals and 3,568
   freshwater and marine organisms. It is updated quarterly with
   additional data and references. Each toxicity test record contains
   information about the test chemical, species, effect endpoint,
   concentrations, and conditions under which the toxicity test was
   conducted. Test results and data are taken from aquatic toxicity
   literature. Each result is documented with the literature citations or
   from data files which undergo a quality assurance test to make sure the
   data is well documented with all of the data elements used by the
   database: CAS number, chemical name, text organism, effect, exposure
   duration, effect concentration and with documentation describing the
   methods used. Data from the published literature is encoded by document
   abstractors and a sample is reviewed by independent reviews for quality
   control on the literature used. Each exposure result includes one or
   more literature citations.

   The database is searchable by a menu and decision tree that allows a
   very broad search by chemical type or specific search by chemical name
   combined with species name as a common name or scientific name.
   Toxicity tests can be limited to freshwater or marine conditions and
   results displayed in a report format or exported as an ascii file.
   Results can be sorted by a number of data elements specific by field
   conditions or laboratory conditions.

   TOXNET offered by the National Institutes of Health at
   http://toxnet.nlm.nih.gov also contains literature citations for plants
   and animals as bioindicators and should be included in a search for
   information on specific chemicals. The TOXNET interface allows a search
   by chemical name and subject or species, but the TOXNET databases are
   primarily to document human exposures rather than ecological effects to
   bioindicators of exposures to toxic chemicals. Literature citation in
   TOXNET include abstracts and AQUIRE includes only the bibliographic
   citation. Results from a TOXNET search are not displayed in the tabular
   format but as text citations and abstracts containing the information.
   TOXNET is also a reviewed database containing data that is verified by
   abstractors.
