http://www.boston.feb.gov/newfeb/Regional%20Powerhouses.pdf

   Regional Powerhouses Once little more than social clubs for executives
   working in the field, Federal Executive Boards have become models for
   the partnership-based government of the next century. by Anne Laurent
   Federal executive boards (FEBs) are Uncle Sam's unsung heroes. They
   kicked off the campaign that won pay reform in 1990. They are the
   lifeblood of reinvention. They held federal agencies together during
   the earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, snowstorms, bombings and shutdowns
   of recent years. Now these regional powerhouses may well become the
   models for the stripped down, tight-fisted, devolved and
   partnership-based government of the 21st century. The boards, which
   group the top executives of all federal agencies represented in a city
   or state, were created by President John F. Kennedy 35 years ago this
   month to improve communications between field offices and his
   Administration. But whether you work in a Washington headquarters
   office, or are among the 85 percent of employees in the field, federal
   executive boards have helped improve your working conditions and may
   loom even larger in your future. Without the boards, pay reform might
   have come far more slowly or not at all, for example. About nine years
   ago, agencies represented by the New York and Los Angeles boards hit a
   hiring brick wall. High living costs in the two metropolises had
   inflated private sector salaries to the point where federal agencies no
   longer could compete, nor could they persuade employees working
   elsewhere to transfer into the two costly cities. In New York, the FBI
   already had won a special 25 percent salary add-on for its staffers,
   remembers Susan Kossin, executive director of the New York FEB since
   1975. "No one would come to New York. We put a group together to study
   it. We went to [the Office of Personnel Management] with a proposal for
   locality pay because the FBI had gotten it," Kossin recalls. The
   resulting report, "New York's Not So Quiet Employment Crisis," landed
   on desks at OPM just about the same time as a similar report from Los
   Angeles. " In Los Angeles we said we didn't want 25 percent [because]
   in some cases people were 150 percent below private sector [salaries],
   particularly in technical jobs, accountants and some administrative
   people," says Sherry Rollman, longtime executive director of the Los
   Angeles board, "The IRS couldn't even hire accountants here." So in the
   late 1980s, the board put together a team of IRS auditors to study
   similar positions in the private, local government and federal sectors
   to measure the pay gap and prove it. The combination of media coverage
   of the reports and help in Congress-New York Democrat Gary Ackerman
   chaired the House Post Office and Civil Service compensation
   subcommittee at the time-created enough pressure to win special 8
   percent pay boosts for three high-cost centers: New York, Los Angeles
   and San Francisco. Those locality add-ons galvanized the drive for
   federal pay reform that ended in the current system, enacted in 1990,
   in which labor costs are surveyed in specific areas to set pay levels
   that vary by locality. Mastering Disaster When disaster strikes federal
   field offices, the boards often are the only ones coordinating aid to
   federal workers and agencies. In the hours and days immediately after
   9:04 a.m. on April 19, 1995, the Oklahoma executive board demonstrated
   this vital service. LeAnn Jenkins, the Oklahoma board's executive
   director, was the only person in America who could give rescuers, law
   enforcement officers, survivors, families, the rest of the government
   and the news media the names, agencies and locations of employees
   working in the Alfred P. Murrah federal building that day. Without
   Jenkins' list, identifying survivors and those remaining in the broken
   building could have taken weeks. Jenkins spent many nights at the
   bombing relief center consoling family members, posting notices of
   available aid and seeing to families' needs. Her days were spent
   getting agency phones forwarded out of the Murrah building and finding
   office space to get agencies up and running again. In the aftermath of
   Oklahoma City, boards nationwide are shoring up their emergency
   preparedness plans. "No agency has the internal management of the
   federal government as its role in an emergency," says New York's
   Kossin. In most cities, agencies and employees have nowhere to go but
   to the board when their offices are destroyed by hurricanes, floods or
   earthquakes. "I don't know who else besides the FEB would provide that
   kind of support if another building blew up," says H.C. "Mac" McClure,
   chairman of the Oklahoma board. In addition to continuing to coordinate
   response to the bombing and the trial of suspected bombers Timothy
   McVeigh and Terry Nichols, Jenkins has been traveling from board to
   board speaking on ways to prepare for the worst. "We've become the
   guiding light about being ready and being prepared," McClure says. In
   the days after the Murrah building attack, other federal buildings
   received bomb threats, among them New York's Jacob Javits building.
   Kossin, the board director there, is no stranger to adversity. In 1980,
   she developed an alternative transportation plan to get federal
   employees to work during the New York transit strike. She coordinated
   the board's planning after the World Trade Center bombing in 1993, and
   in 1995, set up a council of security officers from local agency
   offices. The New York board now runs a year-round, 24- hour, automated
   communications system out of the Federal Aviation Administration's
   operations center. Into the Breach It's not just during emergencies
   that the boards step into the breach for workers in the field. They
   have become, by default, human resources offices for many agencies,
   helping them share costs and slots in training sessions; contracting
   for citywide employee assistance programs (EAPs), child-care and other
   aid; and creating consortia to provide alternative dispute resolution
   services, among other things. First in Seattle and now in St. Louis and
   other cities, the boards have contracted with state and local
   governments and universities to train federal employees as mediators so
   they can serve as free or inexpensive facilitators during disputes
   about race or sex bias, union contracts, contract awards, benefit
   claims and other matters. The New York board has taken the lead on
   work-family issues, says Kossin. "My overall concern is that there is
   no advocacy in the federal government for the people that work for us,
   especially since OPM has been downsized almost out of existence." Thus,
   starting in the 1970s, the New York board was the first to contract for
   comprehensive, citywide, interagency EAP services. In the 1980s, the
   board created Fed Kids at 26 Federal Plaza in lower Manhattan, one of
   the first federal child-care centers and the first child-care center of
   any kind to be housed in a downtown New York office building. In 1993,
   Kossin got federal funding for the New York Working Family's Institute,
   which offers free parenting workshops-covering topics such as dealing
   with anger, helping children learn in elementary school and
   discipline-every six weeks for federal employees. The board recently
   printed copies of an education and resource booklet, "Domestic
   Violence: Finding Safety and Support," for every federal worker in the
   New York-New Jersey area. "We've known there have been [domestic
   violence] incidents in the [federal] workplace," Kossin says. "We had a
   [domestic violence-related] death at a Social Security office this year
   in a hostage situation." She anticipates the need for employee support
   will grow as downsizing increases stress on staffers and agencies.
   "Agency headquarters are pulling out of EAPs and doing 800 [hot line]
   numbers because they're cheaper, just as workplace issues are getting
   worse. We know when the talk of furloughs started [late last year] we
   had more incidents of workplace violence here." This year's long,
   painful budget battle left field offices wounded by furloughs and
   broken morale. In most cases, FEBs were responsible for the only bright
   spot in a gloomy winter and spring: a sympathy-induced bounce in the
   image of federal workers. The boards fed the unquenchable appetites of
   reporters hungry to know who was working and who wasn't and to hear the
   personal experiences of civil servants. The resulting stories humanized
   bureaucrats and increased pressure on legislators to solve the budget
   impasse. Discovered by Clinton As FEBs grapple with funding and staff
   cuts at agency field offices, they also must juggle a pile of new
   responsibilities assigned by the Clinton Administration. Thanks
   primarily to the National Performance Review, the boards have gotten
   more attention from this Administration than from any other in recent
   memory. "Every administration takes a year or two to find the FEBs,"
   says Jack Ratcliffe, executive director of the Philadelphia board.
   "When they do, they create things for us to do for them. Then things
   change, and we're off the radar. Then we pop up again in the next
   administration. It's a very cyclical process." But the Clinton
   Administration was different, according to Paula Bridgham, OPM's
   federal executive board liaison for the last seven years. "This
   Administration discovered FEBs six months after they came in," Bridgham
   says. "Through the NPR they wanted to recognize heroes of reinvention.
   NPR picked up on the value of the FEBs as organizations that had
   outreach to the field, to the people on the front lines doing service
   delivery." From then on, the NPR established tight relations with the
   boards, using them to help host the Vice President's town meetings with
   employees and to identify Hammer Award candidates. By Dec. 8, 1994,
   President Clinton had written to the boards asking them to throw their
   weight behind the reinvention effort by working to carry out his
   executive order on improving customer service. Last year, the Vice
   President wrote to agency heads asking them to support FEB customer
   service initiatives by letting regional and field executives waive
   agency rules and regulations. This April, Clinton ordered agencies to
   transfer excess and surplus computer equipment to schools and nonprofit
   groups and specifically nominated the boards as conduits for these
   donations. "I don't ever remember an administration that has made
   changes that affected people in the field like this," says Lea Chapan,
   executive director of the Denver board. "Years ago, when President
   Kennedy put out his memorandum [creating the boards], this was the way
   it was supposed to work." Reinvention's Seedbeds Indeed, Gore's
   reinvention group has used the boards as sources and seedbeds for its
   projects. The Denver board answered the President's call for customer
   service with an idea the NPR soon will take national. The board teamed
   with Denver telephone directory publisher U S West to make the "blue
   pages"-those listing government agency phone numbers-more user-friendly
   by creating an alphabetical list of federal services, as well as the
   traditional agency listing. The first improved listing was published
   one year ago. NPR soon will kick off a national blue pages project in
   other cities. "We're redesigning the telephone book blue pages so that
   you'll be able to look under "P" for passports, not "S" for State
   Department," Vice President Gore explained in a March 4 address,
   "Governing in a Balanced Budget World," at the National Press Club in
   Washington. In Houston, the FEB joined state and local agencies,
   nonprofit groups and businesses to open the U.S. General Store for
   Small Business in July 1995. The store offers customers a single stop
   for help getting loans; finding out what the federal government is
   buying; solving tax problems; and meeting safety, immigration, equal
   opportunity, and city and state licensing regulations. The store is
   housed in a city-owned shopping center built with funds channeled
   through the Housing and Urban Development Department. It's staffed by
   employees of the Small Business Administration, IRS, General Services
   Administration, City of Houston, County Clerk's office, Occupational
   Safety and Health Administration, and Senior Corps of Retired
   Executives, a nonprofit, private sector group. Staff and equipment were
   donated. Philadelphia's Ratcliffe hopes to go Houston one better by
   helping government customers get services without leaving home. "The
   store is a good idea, but it requires you to come to me," he says. "In
   a World Wide Web environment, I can set it up so you go to the library
   or stay in your house and pick up files and apply on line." The
   Philadelphia board's Web site went live in February. Ratcliffe's dream
   is that it will become an "etherized business center." Already the site
   links to the 140 federal agencies in the area, state and city
   government sites, and is home to the schedule for Inside Government,
   the board's 5-year-old weekly radio program. Partnership's Partisans In
   his March 4 address and again in his fourth annual report on
   reinvention, "The Best Kept Secrets in Government," released Sept. 20,
   Vice President Gore repeatedly stressed partnership as the modus
   operandi for federal agencies in the new era of smaller government.
   "Been there, done that," the federal executive boards might well
   respond, since they have relied on interagency cooperation and joint
   projects with local governments, nonprofit groups and businesses for 35
   years. Begging and borrowing have become a way of life for FEBs, most
   of which are staffed by an executive director and a single
   administrative assistant. Until now, each board was sponsored by a
   single agency, a situation made more and more onerous as budgets
   shrink. But a new funding provision should ease the situation. A
   section of the 1997 omnibus appropriations bill permits interagency
   financing of the boards so all federal agencies in a city can be tapped
   for contributions. The federal executive boards can offer a long list
   of examples for the coming partnership era. Cooperative administrative
   support units, for example, began in 1986 under the auspices of the
   Seattle and Chicago boards. They have spread to many cities where they
   provide inexpensive, shared photocopying, printing, audiovisual, mail
   room and other services to all agencies. The San Antonio board recently
   won a Hammer Award for a partnership with corporations, service groups,
   chambers of commerce and public schools. The project surveys all area
   public schools annually and publishes their needs. Schools have
   received more than 1,000 computers and a variety of other equipment and
   offers of classroom assistance through the project, which spends no
   appropriated funds and has no full-time paid staff or marketing budget.
   Likewise, Houston's general store, New York's domestic violence
   booklet, Seattle's alternative dispute resolution consortium, Oklahoma
   City's disaster recovery and Denver's blue pages renovation all involve
   significant partnership with nonfederal groups and operate on tiny
   budgets. For the future, Gore has called on agencies to make
   partnerships with the private sector, local communities and other
   governments "the goal, not the exception." For the federal executive
   boards it simply will be business as usual.
