http://www.aesdirect.gov/pclink.html


   [top_100-2.jpg]
   Home
   Getting Started
   . Tour
   . How To Register
   . Registration Form
   . Terms & Conditions
   . Privacy Policy
   Log-In
   . Tutorial & Quiz
   . AESDirect
   Using AESDirect
   . User Guide
   . Support Center
   . Browser Support
   . Developers Center
   . News
   AESPcLink
   . About AESPcLink
   . Getting Started
   . News
   . Download
   . Request CD
   . Terms & Conditions
   Related Sites
   . AES
   . Census Bureau
   . U.S. Customs
   . USATrade.gov
   . Partner Sites
   --- About AESPcLink ---

   AESPcLink lets you manage your SED filings locally from your desktop
   computer. It has been designed as an integral component of AESDirect.

   Using AESPcLink, you can:
     * Complete SEDs at your own pace, without tying up your phone line or
       incurring the additional expense of extensive telephone
       connections.
     * Save SEDs as templates on your desktop (even if they are
       incomplete) and never lose any information you have entered.
     * Save USPPI, Consignee, and Freight Forwarder profiles as well as
       SED templates to eliminate re-keying information for shipments to
       your regular customers.
     * Eliminate the need to create USPPI profiles for new customers
       because they are automatically created and assigned codes by
       AESDirect when you submit an SED.
     * File your SEDs in batches, not one at a time.
     * Retrieve, amend, and delete shipments from AESDirect.
     * Access the Shipment Reporting section of AESDirect to review the
       status of all your SED filings.

   How to Obtain AESPcLink

   You can obtain AESPcLink either by downloading the software from
   AESDirect, or requesting it on a CD-Rom from the U.S. Census Bureau.
   Choose either option from the menu of the left of this screen.

   Please note the following:

   Downloading AESPcLink is only recommended for users with a high speed
   internet connection (Cable Modem, DSL Line, T-1, etc..). If you do not
   have a high speed connection request a copy of AESPcLink on CD-Rom.

   Downloading AESPcLink is restricted to authorized AESDirect users. You
   will need to enter your AESDirect username and password to access the
   download capability.
   U.S. Census Bureau Foreign Trade Logo U.S. Department of Commerce
