http://atmos.jpl.nasa.gov/pasadena/more.htm

                          Total Ozone Over Pasadena

   The total amount of ozone over Pasadena was 261 Dobson units on 27 Dec
   2001.

   This is 32 Dobson units less than normal for this date.

                              The Observations

   Global maps of total ozone abundance are obtained by the NASA Total
   Ozone Mapping Spectrometer instrument, which flies on the Earth Probe
   satellite. We have used these space-borne observations to compile a
   time series of total ozone over Pasadena. The graph below shows
   measurements of total ozone for the year to date over Pasadena (red
   curve) compared to typical values of ozone for each day of year (black
   curves).

                             [fig_daily_pdf.gif]

   For the black curves in the above chart, the solid line shows the
   average value of total ozone for a 10 year period and dotted lines show
   the range of expected values (1 standard deviation variance about the
   mean).

   This graph has many interesting aspects, which are discussed below.

                          Definition of Total Ozone

   Total ozone is a measure of the number of ozone molecules between the
   ground and the top of the atmosphere. The concentration of ozone is
   typically expressed as the number of molecules per unit volume. For
   those with a mathematical background, total ozone is simply the
   integral of the ozone concentration with respect to height. Total ozone
   is recorded in "Dobson units", a unit of measure with special physical
   significance that honors a pioneering scientist (click here for more
   information on Dobson units).

   The largest contribution to total ozone, typically 90% or more, is from
   ozone molecules that reside in Earth's stratosphere.

                        The Importance of Total Ozone

   Scientists monitor total ozone because the amount of biologically
   active ultraviolet (UV) radiation reaching the surface varies inversely
   with total ozone. In other words, more UV radiation reaches the surface
   on days when total ozone is low. Excessive exposure to UV radiation
   over periods of time has been linked to increased rates of skin cancer
   (click here for more information on the links between ozone, UV
   radiation, and human health). All else being equal, days with low
   values of total ozone over Pasadena (e.g., 268 Dobson units of ozone on
   21 February 2001) will have larger levels of UV radiation at the
   surface than days with higher values of total ozone (e.g., 397 Dobson
   units on 13 February 2001).

                            Day-to-Day Variations

   The most striking aspect of the chart at the top of this page is the
   extraordinary day-to-day variation in total ozone over Pasadena. This
   variation is real: the TOMS measurement of total ozone is accurate to
   within a few percent. As we will illustrate below, these variations are
   due to the combination of Pasadena's location and stratospheric weather
   patterns.

   In the northern hemisphere, total ozone tends to be largest at middle
   and high latitudes during late winter and early spring. The
   distribution of total ozone with respect to latitude and season has
   been known for quite some time. The following chart, reproduced from
   the pioneering work of Hans Dütsch, shows a map of total ozone (in
   Dobson units) versus latitude and time of year. This chart, produced
   from ground based and balloon-borne observations, was published in the
   Canadian Journal of Chemistry in 1974.

                                [dutsch.gif]

   The chart shows that total ozone is more abundant at middle and high
   latitudes than at tropical latitudes. In general terms, this occurs
   because air first enters the stratosphere in the tropical regions and
   this newly minted stratospheric air tends to have small amounts of
   ozone. Ozone accumulates in stratospheric air parcels as they rise and
   spread to middle latitudes. These air parcels tend to sink at
   mid-latitudes due to the general circulation of the stratosphere. Ozone
   becomes more concentrated in these sinking air parcels because the air
   becomes compressed and also because chemical loss mechanisms for ozone
   tend to shut down as the air sinks, due to smaller amounts of
   ultraviolet radiation at lower altitudes.

   Pasadena, at a latitude of 34.15°N, is located at the southern edge of
   the ozone rich region of the northern hemisphere.

   The TOMS measurement of the global distribution of total ozone on 21
   February 2001, shown below, illustrates the tendency for larger levels
   of ozone to accumulate at middle to high northerly latitudes.

                              21 February 2001
                                 [feb21.gif]
                                [legend.gif]

     Note the large gradients of total ozone along the U.S. west coast on
     this day:

      City

                                                 Latitude

                                                               Total Ozone on 21 Feb.
  Pasadena, CA          34.15°N          268   Dobson units
San Francisco, CA       37.76°N          322   Dobson units
   Seattle, WA          47.45°N          378   Dobson units

   As mentioned above, the day-to-day variation in total ozone over
   Pasadena is mainly due to its geographic location and stratospheric
   weather. We have seen that ozone rich air tends to accumulate at
   mid-latitudes during late winter and early spring. The position of this
   lobe of ozone rich air can be altered by stratospheric winds. On some
   days, this ozone rich air can be pulled as far south as Pasadena. The
   TOMS observations on 6 March 2001, shown below, provide a dramatic
   example of stratospheric winds pulling this ozone rich air over
   southern California (total ozone over Pasadena was 452 Dobson units on
   this day):

                                6 March 2001
                                 [mar06.gif]
                                [legend.gif]


                                   A Movie

   We have compiled a movie of TOMS images for a 60 day period in 2001
   that illustrates how total ozone over Pasadena is affected by
   stratospheric winds. Click here for this movie, best viewed using a
   high speed internet connection. The chart shown at the bottom of the
   movie shows that total ozone over Pasadena can vary by more than 100
   Dobson units over a several week period of time. The satellite images
   of total ozone at the top of the movie illustrate that stratospheric
   winds, by advecting either ozone rich air from higher latitudes or
   ozone poor air from lower latitudes to the southern Calif. area, are
   largely responsible for these short-term fluctuations.


                            A Dramatic Exception

   There is a dramatic exception to the tendency for ozone rich air to
   accumulate at middle and high latitudes during winter. Air masses
   confined to southern polar regions experience rapid, nearly complete
   loss of ozone during late winter/early spring. This ozone loss occurs
   due to interactions between chlorine compounds, stratospheric clouds,
   and sunlight. The sequence of events that occur above Antarctica each
   spring leads to the so-called Antarctic ozone hole. Observations
   obtained by the JPL Microwave Limb Sounder (MLS) instrument, showing
   the association between air with high levels of chlorine monoxide (ClO)
   and low levels of ozone (O[3]):

                             [mls_clo_ozone.jpg]

   provide scientific evidence that chlorine dervied from industrial
   activities is the cause of the Antarctic ozone hole. A compelling
   observation obtained in the Antarctic stratosphere by instruments
   onboard the NASA ER-2 high altitude research aircraft, showing the
   association between pockets of air with high amounts of ClO and low
   levels of ozone on a variety of spatial scales, has been honored by
   depiction on a postage stamp.

   Why is there an ozone hole over Antarctica, but not the Arctic?
   Stratospheric temperatures tend to be colder over Antarctica than the
   Arctic. Colder temperatures in the Antarctic stratosphere lead to more
   occurrences of clouds. Typically, clouds form in the lower atmosphere,
   or troposphere. However, if temperature becomes cold enough, these
   so-called polar stratospheric clouds can form, at an altitude of
   ~70,000 ft. These clouds are an essential ingredient of polar ozone
   loss because reactions that occur on the surface of these clouds
   convert chlorine from unreactive forms to highly reactive compounds
   (e.g., ClO) that cause rapid ozone depletion. The colder temperatures
   of the Antarctic stratosphere lead to more clouds, and hence greater
   levels of ozone depletion, than occurs in the Arctic stratosphere.

   Recently, the Arctic stratosphere has become colder and as a
   consequence more clouds, and larger amounts of ozone depletion, have
   been recorded. Presently, a major focus of stratospheric research is
   directed towards understanding if this apparent trend towards colder
   conditions is linked to climate change.

   Information regarding the development of the Antarctic ozone hole this
   year can be can be obtained from websites supported by the NASA Goddard
   Space Flight Center and another site sponsored by the NOAA Climate
   Monitoring and Diagnostics Laboratory.

                              Long-Term Trends

   Data from the TOMS satellite provides an opportunity to examine trends
   in total ozone above Pasadena between the end of 1978 and the present
   time. The following chart shows the entire data record:

                         [fig_long_term_series.jpg]

   Lowest levels of total ozone over Pasadena occur every year during
   mid-November (the vertical lines on the chart are drawn at 15 November
   for each year). This seasonal low in ozone is related to more efficient
   chemical loss during summer as well as less isolation of air at middle
   to high latitudes during late fall compared to early spring. Even
   though total ozone reaches a minimum during November, the amount of
   ultraviolet radiation reaching the surface is larger during summer
   because, at this time, the sun is higher in the sky (attentuation of
   ultraviolet radiation depends on the total ozone and sun angle, or the
   position of the sun in the sky. On any given day, peak ultraviolet
   exposure occurs near noon, the time at which the sun is highest in the
   sky).

   This 23 year data record data record can be examined to address whether
   ozone levels over Pasadena have declined during the past decade. The
   chart below compares the seasonal variation of ozone over Pasadena for
   two time periods. The black curves show data collected from 1978 to
   1989. The red curves show observations from from 1990 to 2000. The
   solid curves show the average amount of total ozone over Pasadena for
   each time periods. The dotted curves show the variance of ozone,
   defined as one standard deviation of the mean. All curves shown below
   have been smoothed with a 20 day running average so that long term
   changes are more apparent.

                         [fig_long_term_change.jpg]

   This chart reveals that ozone over Pasadena was lower during the 1990s
   than during the 1980s. Lower amounts of ozone are apparent throughout
   most of the year. The difference reaches a maximum of about 10 Dobson
   units during spring (days 90 to 150). This difference would, all else
   being equal, result in 4 to 6% more ultraviolet radiation reaching the
   surface during the 1990s than for the 1980s. Measurements collected at
   other sights have shown a clear association between decreases in
   stratospheric ozone and increases in ultraviolet radiation.

   Averaged over the course of the year, the data record shows total ozone
   over Pasadena was 2% lower during the 1990s compared to the 1980s. This
   amount of ozone depletion is in good agreement with a more
   sophisticated analysis of trends in global ozone, as reported in the
   1998 WMO Scientific Assessment of Ozone Depletion report. Scientific
   studies using computer models that simulate stratospheric chemistry and
   meteorology, summarized in the same report, conclude that this amount
   of ozone depletion is consistent with the expected change due to the
   build-up of stratospheric chlorine that has resulted from the release
   of CFCs and other halocarbons during the past several decades.

   The above chart also shows that the difference in ozone between the
   1990s and 1980s is small compared to the observed variance for either
   decade. The fact that stratospheric winds can induce large day-to day
   variations in total ozone over places such as Pasadena has been
   emphasized throughout this page. Thus, for an individual concerned with
   exposure to ultraviolet radiation, it is important to have information
   about local conditions on a particular day. Such information is often
   given as the UV exposure index in the weather section of newspapers.
   Click here to find the UV exposure index at your location, a service
   provided by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).

   Finally, it must be stressed that any serious attempt to define ozone
   depletion would not consider data at a single sight. A shift in
   stratospheric winds, due either to the vagaries of weather or perhaps a
   persistent change in climate, could potentially lead to trends in total
   ozone over Pasadena due to slight changes in the frequency of
   appearance overhead of high latitude (ozone rich) or tropical (ozone
   poor) air stratospheric air masses. Similarly, a scientist studying
   climate change would be remiss to only examine a temperature record
   from a single sight. Nonetheless, exposure of Pasadena residents to
   ultraviolet radiation is governed by the abundance of total ozone at
   this single sight! It is interesting, but perhaps coincidental, that
   trends in total ozone over Pasadena found by this simple analysis,
   about 2% depletion per decade, agree so well with trends in total ozone
   found by more sophisticated analyses that examine global data.

   [Back to Top]
   [Back to the Atmospheric Chemistry Homepage]

   Author: Ross J. Salawitch
   Page Design: Aaron B. Milam
   Revised:  28 December 2001
