http://www.nidcd.nih.gov/tools/faq.htm

   [USEMAP:toolshead.gif]

   [space.gif]
   Still have questions?
   Contact Us
   Search this site
   _________ Go!
   [space.gif] [space.gif]
   Frequently Asked Questions
     * National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders
       (NIDCD)
     * Disorders
     * Referrals
     * Combined Health Information Database (CHID) Online
     * NIDCD Publications

   Questions about NIDCD [uparrow.gif]
   Q: What is NIDCD?
   A: The National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders
      (NIDCD) is part of the National Institutes of Health (NIH). We are part
      of the U.S. Government, under the Department of Health and Human
      Services (HHS).
   Q: Does NIDCD fund research?
   A: Applications for individual research grants go to the NIH Center for
      Scientific Review (CSR), where they are assigned to the appropriate
      Institutes (e.g., NIDCD) and to scientific review groups for
      consideration of their scientific and technical merit. Once reviewed,
      NIDCD applications are referred for further review by the National
      Deafness and Other Communication Disorders Advisory Council. The
      Advisory Council then makes funding recommendations to the Institute
      Director. For more information, see the NIH Grants and Contracts web
      page.
   Questions about disorders [uparrow.gif]
   Q: What should I do if I think I'm losing my hearing?
   A: The NIDCD Information Clearinghouse distributes Ten Ways To
      Recognize Hearing Loss and other information materials to help you
      determine if you need to have your hearing evaluated. You may wish to
      search the NIDCD Directory of Organizations: Information Resources for
      Human Communication Disorders for organizations with information on
      hearing loss. The Combined Health Information Database (CHID) Online is
      another valuable source of information.
   Q: Where can I find information on ear infections?
   A: Ear infections, also known as otitis media, account for more than 20
      million doctor's office visits every year. Ear infections are the
      leading cause of hearing loss in children. The NIDCD Information
      Clearinghouse distributes a factsheet on otitis media as well as an
      information packet on ear infections. The NIDCD Directory of
      Organizations: Information Resources for Human Communication Disorders
      lists other organizations that have information on ear infections. The
      Combined Health Information Database (CHID) Online is another valuable
      source of information.
   Q: Where can I find information on dizziness?
   A: Dizziness may be caused by a number of reasons. The NIDCD
      Information Clearinghouse distributes two publications on this topic:
      Acoustic Neurinoma Fact Sheet and Update on Dizziness. Please use the
      Publications List to obtain a copy of Update on Dizziness. For lists of
      other organizations that provide useful information, you may wish to
      refer to the NIDCD Directory of Organizations: Information Resources
      for Human Communication Disorders. The Combined Health Information
      Database (CHID) Online is another valuable source of information.
   Q: Are there any support groups for people with Ménière's disease?
   A: Support groups can be located by contacting the Ménière's Network
      through the Ear Foundation.
   Questions about referrals [uparrow.gif]
   Q: Can you refer me to a specialist?
   A: The Institute does not provide physician referrals. Contact your
      primary physician or a local medical society for a listing of
      specialists. We recommend seeking a specialist associated with a
      university-affiliated or teaching hospital if one is in your area.

      The physician you select should be board-certified. Refer to the
      American Board of Medical Specialties (ABMS) Public Education Program's
      Certified Doctor Verification Service to verify a physician's
      credentials.

      Certified specialists are also listed in The Official ABMS Directory of
      Board Certified Medical Specialists, which is published by Marquis
      Who's Who and is available in most public libraries.
   Q: How can I find an ear, nose, and throat doctor (otolaryngologist) in
      my area?
   A: The American Academy of Otolaryngology--Head and Neck Surgery
      (AAO-HNS) is one of several organizations in the NIDCD Directory of
      Organizations: Information Resources for Human Communication Disorders
      that may be of assistance in finding a specialist in your area.

      Another way to find a specialist is to contact a university hospital's
      Department of Otolaryngology or refer to The Official ABMS Directory of
      Board Certified Medical Specialists, published by Marquis Who's Who,
      and available at most local libraries.
   Questions about the Combined Health Information Database (CHID) Online
   [uparrow.gif]
   Q: What is CHID?
   A: The Combined Health Information Database (CHID) Online is a
      reference tool that leads health professionals, patients, and the
      general public to thousands of journal articles and patient education
      materials that contain information about different health topics.
   Q: What type of information will I find in CHID?
   A: CHID has 16 subject areas or "subfiles." Each of these subfiles is a
      rich source of hard-to-find literature that is not often referenced in
      other databases. For example, brochures or newsletters produced by
      patient-advocacy organizations, or booklets produced by Federal health
      agencies are items listed in CHID. Health literature and educational
      resources for special populations are other examples of items cited in
      CHID. The Deafness and Communication Disorders subfile of CHID contains
      citations to more than 4,000 publications.
   Q: Can I conduct my own searches?
   A: If you have access to the Internet, CHID and the Deafness and
      Communication Disorders subfile are available online at
      http://chid.nih.gov. Use of the database is free.
   Questions about NIDCD publications [uparrow.gif]
   Q: How can I receive the NIDCD Information Clearinghouse's newsletter,
      Inside?
   A: Inside is available at this web site. The online version includes an
      archives page with a subject index linking to both the current issue
      and back issues. A printed version is available from the NIDCD
      Information Clearinghouse. Please use the Publications List to order a
      printed copy of Inside, or call the Clearinghouse at 1-800-241-1044
      (Voice) or 1-800-241-1055 (TTY) to be placed on the mailing list for
      this biannual newsletter.
   Q: Can materials from NIDCD be photocopied?
   A: Government publications are not subject to copyright restrictions
      and may be reproduced.

   Health Information |  Strategic Planning |  Research Funding |
   Intramural Research |  News & Events |  About NIDCD |
   FAQs |  Site Index |  Search |  Contact Us |  Home
   [dots.gif]
   Text-only version
   Web Privacy Policy
   Site Information
   top
   [space.gif]
   National Institute on Deafness and
   Other Communication Disorders
   National Institutes of Health
   31 Center Drive, MSC 2320
   Bethesda, MD USA 20892-2320
