http://blackstone.ojp.usdoj.gov/lawenforcement/whats_new.htm

   Link to DOJ OJP home Search Help
                        ________________ search
                                    Advanced search


   Topics Related
   to Law Enforcement:
   star (bullet) Managing Offenders
   star (bullet) Prosecution
   star (bullet) Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS)
   star (bullet) Office of the Police Corps and Law Enforcement Education
   star (bullet) OJP Law Enforcement Publications
   Of Interest
   at OJP:
   star (bullet) Grants/Funding
   star (bullet) State Program Administering Agencies
   star (bullet) T. A./Training
   star (bullet) OJP Guides and Reports

                                                          Law Enforcement

                       What's New | Conferences | Funding | T. A./Training
            Fielded Programs | Research and Statistics | Links Outside OJP

   star (bullet) What's New

     project safe neighborhoods image and link to website Project Safe
     Neighborhoods is a nationwide commitment to reduce gun crime in
     America by networking existing local programs that target gun crime
     and providing those programs with additional tools necessary to be
     successful. The Bush Administration will seek to commit $558.8
     million to this effort over two years, including $233.6 million
     already available for this year. This funding will be used to hire
     new federal and state prosecutors, support investigators, provide
     training, and develop and promote community outreach efforts.

     Bulletproof Vest Partnership (Deadline April 13, 2002)
   offers help to States and units of local government and tribal
   governments to equip their law enforcement officers with armor vests.

     An Introduction to Biological Agent Detection Equipment for Emergency
   First Responders, NIJ Guide 101-00 (NIJ) (Dec. 2001) (PDF or Separately
   Section 1, Section 2, or Section 3) Provides emergency first responders
   with information to aid them in their understanding of biological agent
   detection equipment. Among the topics discussed include: the four most
   common classes of biological agents, challenges to biological agent
   detection, biological agent detection system components and
   technologies, and preparation for a biological incident.

     Traffic Stop Data Collection Policies for State Police, 2001
   (BJS)(Dec. 2001)

     ADAM Preliminary 2000 Findings on Drug Use & Drug Markets: Adult Male
   Arrestees (NIJ) (Dec. 2001) (TXT or PDF)

     FY2002 Applications are now being accepted from states for the
   Enforcing Underage Drinking Laws Program. Local governments and
   community groups should contact their state representatives to apply
   for assistance in setting up a program in their area.

     Pepper Spray's Effects on a Suspect's Ability to Breathe (NIJ) (Dec.
   2001) (TXT or PDF) Oleoresin capsicum (OC), or pepper spray, has gained
   wide acceptance in law enforcement as a swift and effective way to
   subdue violent and dangerous suspects in the field with relatively
   little force. However, it has been argued that OC spray, when used in
   combination with physical restraints, can lead to significant
   respiratory compromise, including asphyxiation and death. This Brief
   discusses the effect of OC on respiration, particularly when combined
   with positional restraint.

     Grants to Encourage Arrest Policies and Enforcement of Protection
   Orders Program (Letters of Intent due: January 10, 2002. Please fax
   Letters of Intent to 202/305-2589, ATTN: Marylouise Kelley; Deadline to
   register in the Grants Management System (GMS): January 17, 2002;
   Deadline to submit application: January 31, 2002. Only applications
   submitted online to the GMS will be accepted. (Text or PDF versions of
   the application). Eligible applicants include: States, Indian tribal
   governments, State and local courts, and units of local government.

     First Response to Victims of Crime (OVC) (December 2001) This
   handbook for law enforcement officers describes how to approach and
   help different types of crime victims. It is designed as a field guide
   for personnel who respond first to crime victims and includes contacts
   for assistance.

     Michigan State Police Tests 2002 Patrol Vehicles: This NLECTC
   bulletin contaiins a synopsis of the test results from the Michigan
   State Police 2002 model year patrol vehicle evaluations. Available in
   ASCII text and Adobe Acrobat files.

     Police Integrity: Principles and Collected DOJ Materials

     Mental Illness and Law Enforcement: Collected Publications

   To:    OJP path right Top

   Credits | Comments or Questions? DOJ home Privacy statement | FOIA
