http://www.geo.nsf.gov/cgi-bin/announce.pl

   [spacer.gif] [spacer.gif] [spacer.gif] [spacer.gif] [spacer.gif]
   [spacer.gif] [spacer.gif]
   Geo Home Geoscience Staff Site Map and Search Contact Webmasters
   www.nsf.gov
   Atmospheric Sciences Earth Sciences Ocean Sciences

   Important Announcements

   About the Directorate About the Directorate
   Overview
   Vacancies
   Directorate Activities Directorate Activities
   Advisory Committee
   Interdisciplinary
   International
   Initiatives
   Budget
   Initiatives Initiatives
   GEO 2000
   GEO DIversity
   GEO ITR
   GEO NANOTECHNOLOGY
   International
   GEO Education
   Funding Funding
   Opportunities
   Proposal Information
   Dates and Deadlines
   Awards Search
   What is Geoscience? What is Geoscience?
   Important Announcments Important Announcements
   Research Highlights Research Highlights
   Share Research Results

   Geo Highlights
   U.S. and EC Officials Sign Agreement to Foster Scientific Collaboration
   [Drs. Colwell, Leinen, and Patermann with Cooperative Agreement] The
   National Science Foundation (NSF) and the European Commission (EC)
   today signed an Implementing Arrangement for Cooperative Activities in
   the areas of climate research, marine science and technology, seismic
   risk and hazards reduction, Arctic research and environmental biology.
   The signing ceremony took place at a meeting of NSF's Advisory
   Committee for Environmental Research and Education. Margaret Leinen,
   NSF's assistant director for geosciences, and Christian Patermann, the
   ECs director of environment and sustainable development, signed the
   document. (October 2001)

   Atmospheric Sciences
   NSF to require FastLane for all proposals submissions
   Beginning on October 1, 2000 all proposals, reviews, requests, and
   business transactions with NSF are required to be done through
   FastLane. For more details see link in title.

   Earth Sciences
   NSF to require FastLane for all proposal submissions
   Beginning on October 1, 2000 all proposals, reviews, requests, and
   business transactions with NSF are required to be done through
   FastLane. For more details see link in title.

   Ocean Sciences
   Dr. James Yoder Appointed Division Director
   We are pleased to announce that Dr. James A. Yoder has been appointed
   as Division Director for Ocean Sciences effective October 1, 2001. Dr.
   Yoder comes to the Foundation from the University of Rhode Island where
   he served as Interim Dean and Associate Dean of the Graduate School of
   Oceanography. He has participated extensively on national and
   international committees and panels, including membership on the CORE
   Board of Governors, the U.S. Carbon and Climate Committee, and as Chair
   of the International JGOFS Task Team on Remote Sensing. In 2000, Dr.
   Yoder began serving as President of The Oceanography Society.
   NSF requires FastLane for all proposal submissions
   Beginning on October 1, 2000 all proposals, reviews, requests, and
   business transactions with NSF are required to be done through
   FastLane.
   Ocean Sciences at the New Millennium Report Now Available
   A report describing the most important and promising opportunites for
   discovery and new understanding in the ocean sciences over the next
   decade was recently published. The report was prepared by the Ocean
   Sciences Decadal Committee, chaired by Peter Brewer and Ted Moore, with
   extensive community input. Please email Elana Khanna if you would like
   a hard copy mailed to you. A high resolution web version is also
   available.

   NSF Celebrating 50 Years Directorate for Geosciences, NSF
   4201 Wilson Boulevard, Room 705, Arlington, Virginia, 22230
   Tel: 703.292.8500 | FAX: 703.292.9042

                                                        NSF Privacy Policy
