http://technology.ssc.nasa.gov/act.html

   Skip to Main Content
   Overview Activities Opportunities Successes Hot Links Forms Contact Us
   Activities
                             SSC Commercial Technology Program Home Page

   Industry Partnerships

   Small Business Innovation Research Program

   Small Business Technology Transfer Program

   Technology Assistance

   Licensing

   Upcoming Events

   The Commercial Technology Program at Stennis Space Center assists in
   the transfer and commercialization of NASA-developed technologies into
   the private sector. These technologies often meet needs in industry or
   address specific problems in areas of national concern. The program
   identifies technologies at the Center with good commercial potential
   and facilitates in their development as a commercial product. NASA
   offers the public access to these technologies in several ways:

   Industry Partnerships - NASA seeks commercial partners to share in the
   time and costs of co-developing a technology into a useful government
   and/or commercial product. U.S. business and industry can also enter
   into a variety of agreements with NASA to develop new products or
   applications, find better ways to do business, and solve technical
   problems using Stennis expertise.

   SBIR / STTR Programs - The Commercial Technology Program manages the
   Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) Program and the Small
   Business Technology Transfer (STTR) Program for the Center. These
   programs offer opportunities for U.S. small businesses to make money
   performing research projects of value to NASA. The goal is for
   companies to develop a functioning commercial product that NASA can use
   to solve a problem and that commercial industries will also find
   beneficial.

   Technology Assistance - NASA provides technical assistance to domestic
   companies in areas unique to NASA's mission. NASA in no way competes
   with commercial companies that provide similar services.

   Licensing Opportunities - Companies can purchase an exclusive or
   nonexclusive license to use a NASA-developed technology. This license
   can be for a specific application of the technology or all-inclusive.

   Public Events and Demonstrations - The Commercial Technology Program
   participates and sponsors events across the country at which new
   technologies are demonstrated and agents are on-hand to discuss
   partnership and contracting opportunities.

                        Stennis Space Center Commercial Technology Program
                                  Responsible NASA Official: Kirk V. Sharp
                                                    Curator: Jeff Eberhart
                                                       NASA Privacy Policy
