http://www.skillsnetwork.gov/topics.cfm?ID=60


   Welcome

   Meet
   the Skills
   Network

   Find Your State

   Home

   [logo2.jpg]

   Basic Skills

   work together



   These links to comprehensive directories and gateways will support the
   organizations that help adults achieve the basic reading, writing, math
   and computer literacy skills needed to succeed in the 21st Century.


   Adult Education Resource Materials

   The Bibliography of Resource Materials provides a listing of articles
   and publications that either deal directly with the State-administered
   adult education program funded under the Adult Education and Family
   Literacy Act of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 or provide support
   to adult education and literacy activities.

   Adult Education: State Grant Program

   Objectives: To create a partnership among the Federal Government,
   States, and localities to provide, on a voluntary basis, adult
   education and literacy services, in order to assist adults to become
   literate and obtain the knowledge and skills necessary for employment
   and self-sufficiency; assist adults who are parents to obtain the
   educational skills necessary to become full partners in the educational
   development of their children; and assist adults in the completion of a
   secondary school education.

   Adult ESL Special Collection

   This site is dedicated to providing adult ESL curricular materials and
   resources, news in the field, and a forum for adult ESL issues.

   Arkansas Adult Leraning Resource Center

   The Arkansas Adult Learning Resource Center (AALRC) assists the
   Arkansas adult learning community providing services to adults, and
   serves as a link between the National Institute for Literacy and the
   Arkansas adult learning and literacy community.

   California Distance Learning Project

   The California Distance Learning Project has been created to usher in a
   new era of distance learning. For many years, most distance education
   has focused on one- or two-way communications through video and
   television. Emerging technologies have opened up other avenues for
   distance learning delivery. This project focuses on using communication
   through computers as a vehicle for student and teacher interaction. The
   project goal is to increase access to adult basic learning services.
   The objective is to help lay the groundwork for a California adult
   basic education distance learning infrastructure.

   Capitol Region Education Council

   CREC: A Regional Educational Service Center created to improve the
   quality of public education.

   Cyber Learning

   This site provides online educational resources for those seeking K-12
   skills, from basic math to SAT prep.

   Department of Educations Free Education Links

   Links to free education online learning in the arts, sciences, social
   studies and more.

   English as a Second Language (ESL)

   Links to free ESL learning materials on the Internet

   Family Literacy Special Collection

   The Family Literacy Special Collections provides individuals working
   with families a means to access a variety of resources electronically.
   At this site you can explore parenting issues, children's activities,
   and classroom materials. You will also discover professional
   development topics and current event information. Whether you want to
   browse the site for developing curriculum or to download classroom
   activities, the Family Literacy Special Collections is one-stop
   shopping.

   General Equivalency Diploma (GED)

   Learn what the GED tests cover, how to prepare and where to get more
   information

   Illinois Literacy Development Resource Center

   The Illinois Literacy Resource Development Center is dedicated to
   improving literacy policy and practice at the local, state and national
   levels.The Illinois Literacy Resource Development Center (ILRDC) is a
   non-profit organization supporting literacy and adult education efforts
   throughout Illinois and the nation. One key to its success has been its
   ability to build partnerships among the organizations, individuals and
   agencies working in the literacy arena - from the local to the national
   level.

   Iowa Literacy Resource Center

   The Center provides a link to resource materials in Iowa and at a
   regional and national level for adult literacy practitioners and
   students. These resources are available in many formats; including
   print, audio, video and online.

   Jobs for the Future

   This guide provides concrete assistance for family literacy and adult
   education organizations to help integrate work and learning.

   Learning About Money Management

   Money management lessons to use with adult learners and ESL students
   from NashvilleREADS

   LINCS- Literacy Information

   LINCS - the Literacy Information aNd Communication System -- is a
   cooperative electronic network of the several major national literacy
   organizations. The LINCS Network provides a single focal point for
   adult literacy resources, knowledge, and expertise. The coordinated
   efforts of the LINCS partners have made LINCS a nationally recognized
   one-stop site for literacy information retrieval and communication
   among literacy stakeholders.
   Grants and Funding

   Literacy Links for Adult Learners

   Learning activities and resources for adults

   Literacy Online

   An online resource for information on literacy research and innovation

   National Clearinghouse for ESL Literacy Education

   The National Clearinghouse for ESL Literacy Education (NCLE), the only
   national information center focusing on the language and literacy
   education of adults and out-of-school youth learning English, works to
   support those providing such services. For over ten years, NCLE has
   provided information on adult ESL literacy education to teachers and
   tutors, program directors, researchers, and policymakers interested in
   the education of refugees, immigrants, and other U.S. residents whose
   native language is other than English. This population includes adults
   who are low-literate and low-skilled, as well as those who are more
   educated but need to improve their English language skills.

   National LINCS

   Adult education and literacy resources from the National Institute for
   Literacy

   Serving Families Through TANF Funds

   States are finding creative uses for Temporary Assistance for Needy
   Families (TANF) funds to support families. This National Governors'
   Association (NGA) Issue Brief gives examples and helpful hints for
   administrators, including ways to fund familiy literacy and workplace
   skills training for needy families.

   STEP°Star Network

   In January 1997, the STEP°Star Network began production of live,
   interactive broadcast courses in adult basic education / adult
   literacy. The programs were disseminated nationwide via satellite and
   cable. Today, the Adult Education Program continues the development and
   production of these live, interactive courses for adults and
   alternative education students. We continue to expand our course
   content and offerings to meet the interests and needs of our
   participants throughout the nation.

   Technology and Adult Literacy

   The Harnessing Technology Web pages help adult literacy education
   (ABE/GED/ESL/ESOL) teachers and learners to use computers, television,
   audio and video cassettes, and other electronic technology to help
   solve learning and instructional problems. The Web pages grow and
   improve as practitioners and learners describe problems and contribute
   good solutions which use technology. Problems and solutions which are
   unattributed are those of David J. Rosen. The most recent ones are
   marked with a icon.

   The Learning Activities Bank: The LAB

   Comprehensive, quality lesson plans that focus on 21st Century
   workplace skills. Categories include Communication and Problem Solving,
   Writing, Teamwork, Decision Making, Interpersonal Learning, Listen
   Actively, Read with Understanding, Reflect and Evaluate, Speak So
   Others Can Understand, Understanding the News, Reading Production
   Graphs, Interpreting Workplace Notices, and Understanding Job Listings
   in the Newspapers.

   The Literacy List

   A free, online professional development guide to integrating the World
   Wide Web into adult literacy instruction. Designed for staff
   developers, it can also be used by teachers. Its main objective is to
   help teachers learn how to construct meaningful Web-based instructional
   activities and projects.

   Workers.gov- On-line Learning Modules

   Free, quality on line learning lessons, links and gateways in reading,
   math, science, history, the arts and a special section on computer
   literacy.

   Workforce Education

   This site is a comprehensive collection of workforce education
   resources that focus the basic skills and literacy needs of the
   workforce. Through this single access point, instructors,
   administrators, and adult learners can find activities and links
   exclusively related to workforce education.

   Workplace Skills

   The Public Broadcasting System (PBS) program on Literacy and essential
   Workplace Skills - delivered via TV and the Internet for pre-GED adult
   learners. Organized for adult learners, instructors and visitors.

   Text Only | Admin | Talk With Us | Privacy Statement | Home
