http://travel.state.gov/vwp.html

                          VISA WAIVER PROGRAM (VWP)

   What is the Visa Waiver Program?

   The Visa Waiver Program (VWP) enables citizens of participating
   countries to travel to the U.S. for tourism or business for 90 days or
   less without obtaining a U.S. visa. The VWP is administered by the
   Attorney General in consultation with the Secretary of State. The Visa
   Waiver Program (VWP) was created by an act of Congress as a pilot
   program in 1986 and implemented in 1988. Congress passed legislation to
   make the program permanent in October 2000, and the President signed
   the legislation on October 30, 2000.

   Currently there are 29 participating countries in the VWP: Andorra,
   Argentina, Austria, Australia, Belgium, Brunei, Denmark, Finland,
   France, Germany, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Liechtenstein,
   Luxembourg, Monaco, The Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, San
   Marino, Singapore, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United
   Kingdom and Uruguay.

   How can travelers enter the U.S. on VWP?

   To enter the U.S. on VWP, travelers from participating countries must:
     * Have a valid passport issued by the participating country and be a
       citizen (not merely a resident) of that country. As of October 1,
       2007, the passport presented at the US port of entry must be a
       machine readable passport;

     * Be seeking entry for 90 days or less as a temporary visitor;

     * If entering by air or sea, have a round-trip transportation ticket
       issued on a carrier that has signed an agreement with the U.S.
       government to participate in the VWP, and arrive in the United
       States aboard such a carrier.

     * Have proof of financial solvency and hold a completed and signed
       visa waiver arrival/departure form (I-94W), on which he/she has
       waived the right to a hearing of exclusion or deportation. These
       forms are available from participating carriers, from travel
       agents, and at land-border ports-of-entry. (Travelers should
       consult carriers to verify which ones are participating before
       making travel arrangements.)

   Entry at a land border crossing point from Canada or Mexico is
   permitted under the VWP. Travelers who apply for entry at a land border
   crossing point are not required to present round-trip transportation
   tickets or arrive at the border entry point aboard a carrier who has
   signed an agreement with the U.S. to participate in the VWP. All other
   VWP requirements apply to such travelers.

   How long may travelers stay in the U.S. on VWP?

   Visitors applying for entry under this program are allowed to remain 90
   days. No extensions of stay can be granted, and VWP travelers cannot
   change their status. Consistent with regulations pertaining to B1/B2
   temporary visitor visas, travelers coming under the VWP cannot work or
   study.

   Would a citizen of a VWP country ever need to apply for a visa?

   Certain travelers still need to apply for a visa, such as those who
   plan to work or study in the U.S., stay more than 90 days, or who might
   otherwise be ineligible for a visa. Travelers previously denied visas,
   or who have criminal records, or who believe they may be ineligible to
   enter the U.S. on the VWP, should contact the nearest U.S. Embassy or
   Consulate before attempting to travel on the VWP.

   How does a country qualify for VWP participation?
     * Refusal rate: In order to qualify for VWP participation, the
       nonimmigrant visitor ("B-1/B-2" visa category) refusal rate for
       nationals of a country who have applied at a U.S. Embassy or
       Consulate in that country must average less than 3% for the
       previous fiscal year.
       Once a country meets the refusal rate criteria, a number of other
       factors must be evaluated before a decision on VWP nomination can
       be made:
     * Reciprocity: VWP candidate countries must provide reciprocal
       visa-free travel for U.S. citizens.
     * Passport security: A country must have a machine readable passport
       (MRP) program in place in order to qualify for VWP participation.
       In addition, VWP candidate countries must demonstrate that adequate
       safeguards against fraudulent use of their passports are in place,
       including proper storage of blank passports and sufficient
       screening of passport applicants. Consideration will also be given
       to the ease with which host country citizenship can be obtained.
     * Political and economic stability: Countries under consideration for
       VWP participation must be sufficiently stable to ensure that
       conditions which could affect VWP qualifying criteria (such as
       overstay rates in the U.S.) are not likely to change dramatically
       in the future.
     * Border controls: VWP candidate countries must demonstrate that
       effective border controls are in place for all territory under
       their control. Factors taken into consideration include the
       thoroughness and consistency of entry checks as well as the extent
       to which the country's territory is used as a transit point for
       alien smugglers.
     * Law-enforcement cooperation: The degree to which host country law
       enforcement agencies cooperate with U.S. counterparts as well as
       international entities such as Interpol will be considered. The
       Attorney General, in consultation with the Secretary of State, must
       evaluate the nominee country's interest in enforcement of U.S.
       immigration laws, and the existence and effectiveness of
       extradition agreements with the U.S., including extradition of its
       own nationals who violate US laws. The Attorney General must submit
       a report to Congress on the country's qualification for designation
       that includes an explanation of a favorable determination.

     * Security concerns: Any security concerns that could be raised by a
       country's admission into the VWP program will be considered.

   Is there a probationary program for VWP entry?

   No. The probationary status entry program, designed for countries with
   a refusal rate of less than 3.5 percent but more than 2 percent, was
   eliminated by the new immigration legislation signed into law in
   September 1996. Therefore, no more countries may be admitted in
   probationary status.

   How does the nomination process work?

   The nomination process is based on a 1997 protocol established between
   the Departments of State and Justice. Under this protocol, the State
   Department initiates the process by advising the Department of Justice
   of its intent to nominate a country for consideration for inclusion in
   the VWP. The Department of State may only nominate a country once it
   determines that each the first three qualifications listed above
   (including refusal rate below 3%, reciprocal treatment for American
   citizens, and machine readable passport program in place) have been
   met. If all three of these criteria have not been met, or if the
   Department of State believes that deficiencies in the other
   qualification areas are significant, the Department will not nominate a
   country.

   Once the Department of State has advised the Department of Justice of
   its intent to nominate a country, an interagency team reviews the
   nomination, focusing on the impact inclusion of the country in VWP
   would have on law enforcement, national security, and immigration
   control. If no clearly disqualifying objections are raised during this
   prenomination review, the Secretary of State submits a formal written
   nomination to the Attorney General.

   After a country is formally nominated, INS leads a site team of
   representatives from interested agencies to visit the nominated
   country. The team reviews the nominee country’s political, social, and
   economic condition; the security of its passport and national identity
   documents; its border controls, immigration and nationality laws, and
   law enforcement policies and practices; and other matters that nay be
   of law enforcement, immigration, or national security concern. Based on
   the prenomination review and site visit, the interagency working group
   submits a recommendation to the Attorney General, who then makes the
   ultimate decision on VWP participation.

   11/06/00

   Return to Visa Services Page
