http://www.boc.ca.gov/PressRel/GovRel2.htm


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




   California Victim Compensation and Government Claims Board Home Page
   Victim Application for Crime Victim Compensation
   Victim Compensation
   Government Claims
   Revenue Recovery and Compliance Branch
   Latest Public Notice
   Download VCGC Board Forms and Publications
   California State Employees Charitable Campaign
   Missing Children Reward Program
   Job Opportunities
   Send your comments to the VCGC Board
   Survey
   California State Seal


   CALIFORNIA VICTIM COMPENSATION AND GOVERNMENT CLAIMS BOARD



                                                             __________ search
                                                                (*)  My CA


   Press Release - Governor Davis' Office

   September 12, 2001
   GOVERNOR DAVIS ANNOUNCES STATE PROGRAM IS AVAILABLE TO ASSIST FAMILIES
   OF TERRORISM VICTIMS
   Sacramento, CA - Governor Gray Davis announced today that financial
   help is available for the families of those killed or injured during
   Tuesday's terrorist attacks through the California Victim Compensation
   Program. California victims or their families are urged to call (800)
   777-9229 for more information and to receive an application.
   "This is a terrible tragedy that has occurred, and my heart goes out to
   all of the survivors and the families who have lost loved ones,"
   Governor Davis said. "We will do whatever we can to assist families
   through this difficult time."
   The Victim Compensation Program is increasing its staffing and
   upgrading the capacity on its toll-free telephone lines to assist
   victims and their family members in receiving financial reimbursement
   for expenses incurred as a result of this tragedy. The program and the
   toll-free hotline can accommodate victims or their family members who
   speak any language. A TDD/TDY line is also available for the hearing
   impaired at, (800) 735-2929. Beginning Thursday, September 13, both
   toll-free phone lines will be open from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m.
   California residents are eligible for up to $70,000 for loss of
   support, mental health counseling, funeral costs, and possibly other
   expenses. Victims and family members can also contact the federal
   Office for Victims of Crime at (800) 331-0075 for referral numbers to
   compensation programs in every state.
   All 50 states have victim compensation programs similar to
   California's. Victim Compensation Program staff can assist families in
   receiving assistance from other state programs.
   The State Victim Compensation Program assists eligible crime victims in
   securing reimbursement for expenses incurred as a result of the crime,
   including acts of terrorism.
   For additional information and resources available to victims, please
   consult the Victim Compensation and Government Claims Board's Web site
   at the link below.
   Please link below to view the Victim Compensation Program fact sheet.
   Victim Compensation Program fact sheet
   Victim Compensation and Government Claims Program

                             Back to Top of Page
      2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
