http://hou.lbl.gov/howtojoin/index.html

   Hands-On Universe, Lawrence Hall of Science, University of California,
   Berkeley

   High School Teachers --

   Join our Research Study on New Methods of Professional Development!

   Register online for HOU courses to be offered in the summer of 2002,
   with online courses contining into the fall.

   With Hands-On Universe (HOU), teachers and students at all ability
   levels use high quality astronomical images to explore central concepts
   in science, math, and technology. By analyzing real astronomical images
   with HOU image processing software, similar to the software
   professional astronomers use, students become more engaged and more
   excited about math and science.

   HOU is conducting a study of the relative effectiveness of different
   professional development strategies. If you join our study, you will be
   in one of our HOU courses to learn to implement the HOU curriculum in
   your classroom. The key measure of effectiveness will be student
   performance, so you will be required to administer assessments to your
   students.
   Our assessor/evaluator partner is Third International Mathematics and
   Science Study (TIMSS) team who made headlines with their
   ground-breaking findings on how U.S. students compare in math and
   science education to their global counterparts.

   For more information: What is the HOU high school curriculum?
                         Benefits to Participants
                         (Check out the STIPEND!)
                         Requirements for Participation

   Download a flier in .pdf format
   about HOU High School Teacher Courses for summer of 2002.

   If you are interested in registering, FIRST go get your calendar (and
   your spouse's calendar, if necessary), so you can be prepared to make
   commitments for the scheduled dates of courses. You will see the types
   of courses, schedules, and locations listed within the registration
   form.

   Please be sure to provide information so that we can contact you by
   phone and e-mail. This is required in order to complete your
   registration. An application fee of $25 is also required. After you
   have registered, you will receive an information package via postal
   mail to your home address.

   When you are ready to register in an HOU course, please visit our
   Registration Page

   Questions?

   [mailicon.GIF]
   E-Mail HOU Staff Or call
                    Amelia Marshall
                    (510) 642-7500 Hands-On Universe
                                   Lawrence Hall of Science #5200
                                   University of California
                                   Berkeley, CA 94720-5200

                           Return to HOU Home Page

   HOU Home   General Information    News    Teacher Resources    Student
        Research    Global HOU   Images   Explorations   Contact HOU
      Home URL: hou.lbl.gov      Lawrence Hall of Science       © 2001
   Regents of the University of California       Updated December 21, 2001
