http://www-pao.ksc.nasa.gov/kscpao/visit/kscovrv.htm


          John F. Kennedy Space Center - Alligators and Rocketships


     KSC Home Page   Site Search FAQ's Site Survey Customer Forum NASA Centers
   Privacy Statement  Headlines



                          National Wildlife Refuge
   Space Vehicles The OPF VAB & SRB Pre Launch Launch & Recovery Mission
   Complete

                          National Wildlife Refuge

                               Merritt Island
                               Merritt Island

   KSC is located on a barrier island, called Merritt Island, about 34
          miles long and varying in width from five to 10 miles. The total
          land and water area covers just over 140,000 acres, however,
          only 6,000 acres are actually used for space shuttle operations.

   Many people don't realize that Kennedy Space Center is also a
          National Wildlife Refuge.

                      KSC is a National Wildlife Refuge
                              KSC is a National
                               Wildlife Refuge

   Since August of 1963, Merritt Island's National Wildlife Refuge has
   shared a common boundary with the John F. Kennedy Space Center on the
   east coast of Florida. Just south of launch pad 39A, manatees graze
   protected in a sanctuary in the northern end of Banana River. Between
   May and September, thousands of endangered sea turtles come ashore on
   this barrier island in the dark of night to lay their eggs. Merritt
   Island's strategic location along the Atlantic Flyway provides a
   resting and feeding place for thousands of wading birds, shorebirds,
   and songbirds. Diverse habitats that include brackish marshes, salt
   water estuaries, and hardwood hammocks provide homes to an amazing
   diversity of more than 500 species of wildlife.
   Today these 220 square miles are managed by the Dept. of the Interior
   as a National Wildlife Refuge and National Seashore.

Another endangered species is the beloved sea turtle. Most often the
female turtles will come ashore in the calm of the night to lay their
eggs. With its protected shoreline, KSC has one of the most dense
turtle populations in the northern hemisphere.

                                                                                                   Sea Turtle
                                                                                                   Sea Turtle

                               Bald Eagle Nest
                               Bald Eagle Nest
   There are more than 15 varieties of endangered wildlife at KSC. There
   are at least five active bald eagle nests around the Center. Nests can
   reach more than six feet in diameter and are usually inhabited from
   September through May. The eagles usually produce one or two chicks per
   year.

                                    Manatee
                                   Manatee

   Manatees are also abundant at the center with more than 300 of the
   lovable creatures accounted for, thus making up around 30 percent of
   Florida's total manatee population.
   No discussion  of  wildlife  at  KSC  is  complete without mentioning
   alligators! While the interactions between man and alligator are few,
   the biggest problem is during Shuttle landings. Prior to each KSC
   Shuttle landing, it is the task of a special crew to clear the runway
   of all debris, including any alligators that might be sunning
   themselves on the runway surface.

                                  Alligator
                                  Alligator

                                 Top of Page

                                                                 Next Page

                          National Wildlife Refuge
   Space Vehicles The OPF VRB & SRB Pre Launch Launch & Recovery Mission
   Complete

     KSC Home Page   Site Search FAQ's Site Survey Customer Forum NASA Centers
   Privacy Statement  Headlines

                              Page Last Revised

                         Page & Curator Information

                                 11/29/2001

       Curator: Kay Grinter kay.grinter-1@ksc.nasa.gov / InDyne, Inc.
                 Web Development: JBOSC Web Development Team
                 A Service of the NASA/Kennedy Space Center
                          Roy D. Bridges, Director
