http://earthquakes.usgs.gov/about_us.html

   Link to USGS home page


                             Earthquake Activity


                            EQ Facts & Education


                             Products & Services


                           Hazards & Preparedness


                             Earthquake Research


                              Regional Websites


                              Seismic Networks


   spacer


       About Us

      Highlights

   Mission Statment

   Program Documents


            Earthquake Hazards Program Highlights from 2000-2001

   Compiled by Chief Scientist Mary Lou Zoback

   1. When the depths are awakened
   Earthquake scientists have traditionally held that large strike-slip
   earthquakes such as the 1906 San Francisco earthquake or, more
   recently, the 1999 Izmit, Turkey earthquake, are followed for months or
   years by continued quiet slip along the deeper extension of the fault.
   Another long-held idea is that the continental lower crust flows easily
   and isolates the motions of the upper crust (where earthquakes occur)
   from those of the underlying mantle. These tenets have been called into
   question in a study by Fred Pollitz, Chuck Wicks, and Wayne Thatcher
   published in the September 7, 2001 issue of Science.
   They examined geodetic data collected after two large earthquakes which
   struck in central Mojave Desert in the 1990s – the M7.3 1992 Landers
   earthquake and M7.1 1999 Hector Mine earthquake. These earthquakes
   occurred in the central Mojave Desert on faults which had evidently not
   ruptured for 1000s of years. The rate of crustal deformation in the
   years since each earthquake has been measured with Synthetic Aperture
   Radar (InSAR) and Global Positioning System (GPS). These data reveal
   that the deformation rates in the first few months after each
   earthquake were three to four times higher than the pre-earthquake
   strain accumulation rate, these initially high post-earthquake
   deformation rates dropped off sharply after the first few months, and
   the post-earthquake deformation included rising and sinking regions
   over large (2500 km2) areas . All of these features of the postseismic
   deformation place strong constraints on the mechanisms by which rock
   flows deep below Earth's surface. For the first 9 months after the
   Hector Mine earthquake, the study found the likely origin of this
   deformation to be vigorous flow of the upper mantle (deeper than about
   30 km).
   Their results suggest that at least for a portion of the seismic cycle,
   the mantle beneath a strike-slip fault flows vigorously and is
   connected to the motions of the upper crust through a surprisingly
   rigid lower crust. This has important implications for the prediction
   of crustal motions and the long-term consequences of a history of
   earthquakes, each of which causes immediate changes in regional stress
   followed by a long period of postseismic readjustment.
   The study depended critically on (1) SAR data from the European Space
   Agency Satellite ERS-2, made available in the WINSAR archive and (2)
   Southern California Integrated GPS Network (SCIGN) data. The WINSAR
   archive is maintained with funding by NASA, USGS, and NSF. SCIGN is
   sponsored by the W.M. Keck Foundation, USGS, NASA, NSF, and the
   Southern California Earthquake Center.
   For a slightly more detailed summary of this research complete with
   color figures, see:
   http://quake.wr.usgs.gov/research/deformation/modeling/whatsnew/index.h
   tml

   2. The squeezing of Los Angeles; a tale of earthquakes and water
   US Geological Survey and University of California Los Angeles
   geophysicists (Gerald W. Bawden , Wayne Thatcher , Ross S. Stein, all
   at USGS Menlo Park; Ken W. Hudnut, USGS Pasadena; and Gilles Peltzer )
   made two significant findings about how and why the ground moves
   beneath Los Angeles in a paper in Nature in August 2001. The
   researchers combined satellite radar images and Global Position System
   (GPS) observations to measure more accurately than ever before the
   tectonic squeezing of the region that is responsible for earthquakes
   like the 1987 M=6 Whittier Narrows and M=6.7 Northridge shocks. In the
   process, they discovered that large regions of metropolitan Los Angeles
   are rising and falling by up to 11 cm (4.3 in) every year with a large
   portion of the city of Santa Ana sinking at a rate of 12 mm (0.5 in)
   per year.
   The satellite radar images show that the 40-km (25mi) long Santa Ana
   basin (which includes the cites of Santa Ana, Anaheim, Garden Grove,
   Norwalk, Downey, Lakewood, and Fountain Valley) rises every winter and
   then drops during the summer. This ‘breathing’ of the earth’s surface
   is not caused by the tectonic forces that squeeze the Los Angeles
   basin, rather it is caused by the widespread pumping and recharge of
   groundwater, the basin reacting like a giant sponge that is annually
   drenched and drained. The magnitude and extent of these seasonal
   motions are a product of Los Angeles’ great thirst for water; they are
   unprecedented, and have not been observed elsewhere in the world.
   Since the risks for earthquakes in Los Angeles are greater than any
   other city in the United States, determining which faults are moving
   and how they move is an essential step in assessing earthquake hazards.
   After the Whittier Narrows and Northridge earthquakes revealed that
   blind thrust faults threaten metropolitan Los Angeles, an array of 250
   continuously recording GPS stations (SCIGN) was deployed to detect and
   monitor the motion associated with the movement of the blind thrust
   (inclined faults that do not reach the surface) and the surface faults.
   Gerald Bawden and his colleagues analyzed data from this network and
   found that groundwater, oil, and natural gas pumping produce motions at
   some of the GPS sites that obscure and in some cases mimic the tectonic
   signals expected from the blind thrust faults. The satellite radar
   imagery allows them to discriminate sites that contain only the
   tectonic signal from those that have a combination of tectonic and
   human-induce motions. By utilizing only the GPS sites that contain
   tectonic signal, they determined that the tectonic squeezing (4.4±0.8
   mm/yr) across Los Angeles will likely produce earthquakes on the either
   the blind Elysian Park or Puente Hills thrust faults systems.
   The seasonal rising and falling of the Los Angeles area is caused by
   the increasing demand for water throughout the region. To meet the
   growing need for water during the hot summer months, water districts in
   southern California pump water into the ground throughout the year, and
   then when the demand for water is highest (between May and September),
   water is pumped out of these large underground ‘reservoirs’. The
   repeating pattern of pumping and recharge produces the seasonal motion
   that is evident in the satellite imagery and GPS observations.
   Repeatedly lowering the water table each summer to new lower levels is
   causing the Santa Ana basin to sink, with about 84 mm (3.3 in) of
   subsidence near Santa Ana between 1993 and 1999.
   For a more detailed summary of this research complete with color
   figures, see:
   http://quake.wr.usgs.gov/research/deformation/modeling/whatsnew/index_g
   erald.html

   3. FOQUS-LA discovers active fold which may influence seawater
   contamination
   In 2001 the multi-team (Marine, Mapping, and Earthquake),
   multi-discipline (GD and WRD) FOQUS-LA (Focus on QUaternary
   Stratigraphy of the LA basin) project completed a preliminary
   sequence-stratigraphic interpretation along a N-S transect in the Long
   Beach Harbor region. The transect was constructed by integrating new
   continuous core interpretations, high-resolution marine seismic, and
   gravity data with electric log and cuttings descriptions from existing
   water and oil wells in the region. The new model suggests that the
   Silverado aquifer, the primary drinking water aquifer in the Long Beach
   region, may be vulnerable to near-surface contamination by seawater
   because of ongoing uplift and erosion caused by late Pleistocene to
   Recent activity of a blind fault that cores an anticline running
   approximately parallel to the coast. Previously, this fold was thought
   to have been inactive. We have also identified a significant
   unconformity in the section where more than 1 million years of lower
   Pleistocene sediment is missing a period of uplift and erosion not
   previously recognized; the extent of this surface throughout the
   western Los Angeles basin is now being investigated.
   In cooperation with WRD, the project secured two new contracts with
   local water managers to obtain additional new data in the region. These
   new contracts total more than $2.7M and will fund USGS installation of
   6 continuous core holes and 5 additional monitoring wells in the Los
   Angeles basin in 2002. In addition, these contracts will help support
   follow-up analyses of core data, completion of a high-resolution 3D
   geologic model of the Long Beach region, and refinement of the regional
   hydrostratigraphic model. The GD project chief for FOQUS-LA is Dan
   Ponti, in the Menlo Park Earthquake Hazards office.

   4. Earthquake Shaking—Finding the "Hot Spots"
   A Southern California Earthquake Center/ USGS study has quantified how
   local geologic conditions affect the shaking experienced in an
   earthquake. The important geologic factors at a site are (1) softness
   of the rock or soil near the surface and (2) thickness of the sediments
   above hard bedrock. Even when these "site effects" are taken into
   account, however, each earthquake exhibits unique "hotspots" of
   anomalously strong shaking. Better predictions of strong ground shaking
   will therefore require additional geologic data and more comprehensive
   computer simulations of individual earthquakes. This studied was lead
   by Ned Field, from the USGS Earthquake Hazards office in Pasadena.
   The public release of the report results of this was accompanied by a
   fact sheet:
   http://geopubs.wr.usgs.gov/fact-sheet/fs001-01/
   and a special issue of the Bulletin of the Seismological Society of
   America.

   5. Earthquake Shaking Live on the Internet!!
   David Wald of the USGS Earthquake Hazards office in Pasadena has
   brought near-real time earthquake shaking maps to the Internet.
   ShakeMap, a series of maps of measured ground motion (peak velocity and
   acceleration) obtained from seismic networks, and
   maps of shaking intensity estimated using these measurements. Maps are
   posted approximately 5-10 minutes after significant earthquakes. The
   ShakeMaps are now available in California, Washington, and Utah.
   ShakeMap now automatically generates specialized ground motion maps for
   direct inclusion in Hazards U.S. (HAZUS). Both the Federal Emergency
   Management Agency (FEMA) and the California Office of Emergency
   Response
   (OES) can now rapidly estimate losses following earthquakes based on
   accurate, direct ground motion observations.
   A second web product reporting earthquake shaking levels on the web are
   the "Did You Feel It?" Internet-based Intensity maps also conceived and
   implemented by David Wald. After the February 2001 M6.8 Nisqually
   earthquake member of the public logged on by the thousands to report on
   the shaking intensity they experienced. In total, this earthquake was
   reported felt by over 12,500 citizens (netizens?) inWashington, Oregon,
   California, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, and Utah. It was reported
   definitely Not Felt in Massachusetts, so clearly church bells did not
   ring in Boston for this one. The map can be viewed at:
   http://pasadena.wr.usgs.gov/shake/pnw/STORE/X2281854/ciim_display.html.
   The “Did You Feel It Maps” have now been implemented nationwide, the
   number of reports for earthquakes felt submitted from the public have
   now topped over 100,000. These maps provide important information on
   regional to local variations in shaking intensity and are particularly
   valuable in areas with few seismometers. Recent maps indicate humans
   are very sensitive seismometers and can report observations that on
   average constrain ground motion values to within 50%. A recent M2.6
   earthquake beneath Manhattan generated 152 responses up to Modified
   Mercallli intensity V, an earthquake this small in California would
   probably not even be felt because of higher attenuation of seismic
   waves.6. When aftershocks don’t happen: the February 28, 2001 M6.8
   Nisqually earthquake.
   Although earthquakes are always a surprise, the February 28, 2001
   Nisqually earthquake beneath Tacoma, Washington was not unexpected. New
   analysis of historic earthquake records shows us that subcrustal
   earthquakes under Puget Sound, like the 2001 Nisqually earthquake, have
   increased in number since 1949 (). This year’s earthquake was located
   very close to the 1949 event, within the downgoing Juan de Fuca slab,
   and like that event, produced only a couple of aftershocks. This
   paucity of aftershocks is undoubtedly related to the special rock/fluid
   processes that allow brittle failure at depths far greater than
   previously believed possible. Steve Kirby (USGS Menlo Park) has studied
   the intra-slab earthquakes worldwide, they all have similar mechanisms
   and few to no aftershocks.
   This earthquake is the subject of a Cascadia Regional Earthquake
   Workgroup (CREW) conference November 27-28, 2001 in Seattle, entitled
   "The Business of Earthquakes: Lessons learned from the Nisqually
   Earthquake". Craig Weaver, Scientist-in-Charge of the USGS Earthquake
   Hazards office in Seattle will give an invited talk, titled "The
   Nisqually Earthquake, Big Enough but not the Big One" which discusses
   the seismic and geologic observations from the February 28, 2001
   Nisqually earthquake. Although that event was of magnitude 6.8, the
   Seattle area is subject to much stronger shaking from earthquakes on
   the Seattle fault and other crustal faults.
   CREW is a private-public partnership dedicated to increasing earthquake
   mitigation activities in the Pacific Northwest. About 150 people will
   attend the conference, with key lessons learned from Starbucks, Boeing,
   and King County.

   6. The New Madrid-India Connection
   Following the devastating M7.6 Bhuj, India, earthquake on January 26,
   2001, scientists from the Pasadena (Susan Hough) and Memphis offices
   (Joan Gomberg, and Buddy Schweig) initiated projects to investigate
   both earthquake source properties and the distribution of damage.
   Although local instrumental recordings of the mainshock were virtually
   non-existent, analysis of aftershock recordings and detailed maps of
   damage support initial suggestions that the rupture did not reach the
   surface. The analyses are also providing important new information
   regarding the nature of ground motions produced by large, blind thrust
   earthquakes. These results have important implications for hazard from
   future large earthquakes in the United States, particularly events in
   the New Madrid Seismic Zone. Preliminary results suggest that the Bhuj
   mainshock was associated with a smaller fault rupture than plate
   boundary events of similar magnitude. This suggests that known fault
   segments in intraplate regions, such as central/eastern North America,
   might be capable of generating larger earthquakes than would be
   inferred from data from California. Events with relatively small
   rupture dimensions also generate relatively high levels of damaging
   shaking at large (300-600 km) distances, suggesting that the damage in
   places like Ahmedabad was not solely due to poor construction.7.
   Time-dependent permeability along active faults
   Permeability and strength measurements on core samples from three
   drillholes crossing the Nojima fault zone in Japan (which ruptured in
   the 1995 M=7.2 Kobe earthquake) provide the most complete documentation
   yet available of the mechanical and hydrologic properties of an active
   fault following a major earthquake. These results show that fault slip
   is localized on narrow (cm-wide) shear zones that are surrounded by
   about 30-m-wide damage zones. These damage zones, which are
   characterized by high crack density, greatly enhanced permeability and
   reduced strength, will act as conduits for fluid flow parallel to the
   fault. Based upon our laboratory measurements of the rate of
   permeability reduction at hydrothermal conditions, it is likely that at
   seismogenic depths these fluid channels will tend to reseal in the
   years following an earthquake. Indeed, microscopic examination of core
   samples from the damage zone of the Nojima fault reveal multiple cycles
   of fracturing and mineral precipitation (sealing). These results
   suggest a close relationship between the earthquake cycle, fault zone
   permeability and fluid flow, as inferred from our earlier borehole
   measurements of stress and fracture permeability along a fault-hosted
   geothermal reservoir in north central Nevada. Taken together, these
   laboratory and borehole results have important implications for the
   role of active faults as either conduits or barriers to oil and gas
   migration as well as the origin and distribution of hydrothermal
   mineral deposits and geothermal energy resources. These results
   represent the collective effort of many people in Steve Hickman’s
   Physics of Earthquakes and Faulting Megaproject in Menlo Park. Much of
   the laboratory work was done in the Rock Mechanics laboratory under the
   direction of David Lockner.8. Bay Area Earthquake Cycle: A view from
   underfoot
   Historically the Bay Area has not experienced a complete earthquake
   cycle--the interval immediately following, then leading up to and
   repeating, a 1906-type (multi-segment rupture, M7.9) San Andreas event.
   The historical record of earthquake occurrence in the Bay Area appears
   to be complete at about M5.5 back to 1850), which is less
   than half a cycle. For large events (qualitatively placed at ~M7)
   suggest the record is complete back to the founding of Spanish mission
   in the Bay Area around1776, which may represent about half a cycle.
   During the historical period only the southern Hayward fault (1868) and
   the San Andreas fault (1838,1906) have produced expected large events.
   Five other major active fault systems capable of damaging earthquakes
   have not ruptured in historic time.
   The Bay Area Paleoseismology Experiment (BAPEX) is a team of USGS,
   CDMG, Lawrence Livermore, academic, and consulting geologists headed by
   David Schwartz (USGS Earthquake Hazards, Menlo Park) whose goal is to
   develop a 2000 year slip history of active faults through trenching
   studies. The Center for Accelerator Mass Spectrometry at Lawrence
   Livermore Labs is producing near real-time (overnight in some cases)
   radiocarbon dates which aid the geologist in tying down interpretations
   while the trenches are still open. New data from this team collectively
   investigating the major active faults across the region now provide,
   forthe first time, a more complete view of the most recent pre-1906 Bay
   Area earthquake cycle. They suggest that six large earthquakes,
   including a San Andreas rupture similar to 1906, occurred between about
   1600 and 1776. These data seem to be in contradiction with 20th century
   shutoff of seismicity throughout the Bay Area after the 1906
   earthquake, hence provide important constraints of the irregularity of
   the earthquake cycle and implications for long-term fault interactions.

                              Mission Statement

     To provide and apply relevant earthquake science information and
     knowledge for reducing deaths, injuries, and property damage from
     earthquakes through understanding of their characteristics and
     effects and by providing the information and knowledge needed to
     mitigate these losses.

   The USGS Earthquake Hazards Program (EHP) of the U.S. Geological Survey
   (USGS) is part of the National Earthquake Hazards Reduction Program
   (NEHRP) lead by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).

   The USGS role in NEHRP is to provide Earth sciences information and
   products for earthquake loss reduction.  The goals of the USGS' EHP
   are:

     1).    Improve earthquake hazard identification and risk assessment
     methods and their use;
     2).    Maintain and improve comprehensive earthquake monitoring in
     the United States with focus on "real-time" systems in urban areas;
     3).    Improve the understanding of earthquakes occurrence and their
     effects and consequences.

   The USGS's EHP also supports an External Research Program, which funds
   external cooperators and awards external grants through a competitive,
   peer-reviewed proposal process. Participants in the Earthquake ERP
   include State and local government, the academic community, and the
   private sector.  Priorities for both the internal and external programs
   are guided by the Earthquake Hazards Program's Five Year Plan
   (1998-2002).

                              Program Documents

     FY2001 Program Summary(html)

     FY2001 Budget Information Sheet(pdf)

     Earthquake Hazard Program Five Year Plan 1998-2002

     An Assessment of Seismic Monitoring in the United States
     (ANSS)--Requirement for an Advanced National Seismic System

   spacer


      About Us | FAQ | Home | Latest EQs | Report an Earthquake | Search

   U.S. Geological Survey, a bureau of the U.S. Department of the Interior
   This page is brought to you by the Earthquake Hazards Program
   URL: http://earthquake.usgs.gov/
   Maintained by: Web Team
   Last modification: Tuesday, 04-Dec-2001 14:00
   Contact Us: Web_Team
   USGS Privacy Statement | | Disclaimer | | Accessibility

                                                  First Government graphic
