http://www.fema.gov/reg-iv/2002/r4_15.htm

                                Region IV Banner
       [ home | feedback | library | privacy policy | search | site help |
                                  site index ]

   FEMA Notifies Monroe County, Florida, of Impending Flood Insurance Probation

        Atlanta, G.A., January 15, 2002 -- The Federal Emergency Management
           Agency (FEMA) today informed Monroe County officials that the
       unincorporated areas of the county may soon be placed on probationary
      status with the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) due to ongoing
             deficiencies in the local floodplain management program.

        Probation will begin May 31, 2002, according to FEMA officials who
       oversee the NFIP, unless the county takes measures prior to that date
      to bring its floodplain management program into compliance with minimum
       NFIP requirements and begins to address all identified violations of
                      its flood damage prevention ordinance.

         Probation will not affect the availability of flood insurance for
      property owners in the county, but a $50 surcharge will be added to the
        premium for each new or renewed flood insurance policy sold within
        unincorporated Monroe County. This surcharge will be in place for a
        period of one year or for the duration of the probationary period,
                               whichever is longer.

       The probationary notice -- signed by Kenneth O. Burris, Jr., Regional
      Director, FEMA Region IV -- cited specific deficiencies in the county's
       floodplain management efforts, including inadequate enforcement that
       has resulted in as many as 2,000-4,000 illegal enclosures constructed
      under elevated buildings. The notice specifies actions required of the
         county to avoid probation and potential suspension from the NFIP.

       The NFIP makes federally backed flood insurance available to property
        owners in communities that adopt and enforce floodplain management
           ordinances that are designed to reduce future flood losses by
        regulating new construction. FEMA officials are concerned that the
          county's failure to adequately administer and enforce its local
       floodplain management program results in increased exposure to flood
                                       risk.

         Burris said FEMA viewed the probation action as a serious step in
         enforcing standards for safer construction in flood hazard areas.

       "Placing a community on probation is a notification to that community
        that it is regarded as noncompliant with NFIP criteria and that the
      deficiencies and violations are serious enough that they could lead to
                  eventual suspension from the program," he said.

       If Monroe County ultimately were to be suspended from the NFIP, then
      flood insurance coverage, some forms of federal disaster assistance and
      other federal grants and loans would no longer be available within the
                                    community.

       "This is significant because property owners would not be insured for
              flood losses resulting from a hurricane," Burris said.

       FEMA's regional office in Atlanta will continue to work closely with
        local officials to provide technical assistance and consultation to
       Monroe County to help it remedy the violations and achieve compliance
                with the minimum requirements of the NFIP, he said.

        The NFIP in unincorporated Monroe County has 28,799 flood insurance
         policies in force, representing more than $4 billion in property
        coverage. Since 1978 FEMA has paid $42,196,658 for 7,376 claims on
      flooded property. The program is self-supporting; claims and operating
      expenses are paid from premium income, not from taxpayer dollars. It is
      estimated that NFIP building standards prevent approximately $1 billion
                       in nationwide flood damage annually.


       Updated: January 16, 2002

                   FOOTER: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
