http://www-envirinfo.llnl.gov/ATSDR_neigh_ltr.html

   Privacy & Legal Notice

   September 23, 1999

   Dear Neighbor:

   The Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) has
   completed its study of how plutonium got to Big Trees Park. They found
   the most credible pathway was through sewage sludge placed on
   ornamental trees.

   ATSDR also found that neither air nor water was a credible pathway.
   This means LLNL operations was not a direct emissions source of the
   plutonium into the surrounding environment The source was likely a
   release of plutonium waste in a 1967 sewage discharge. LLNL confirmed
   the release at the time and reported it to the California Department of
   Health Services. CDHS did not find the release of health concern to the
   public. The sewage was dried at the Livermore water relamation plant
   and made available to the public for use as a soil amendment.

   The ATSDR also determined that there was no need for further action
   since the plutonium was below any level of regulatory concern. Earlier
   this year regulatory agencies decided, as they did in 1995, that the
   plutonium found in Big Trees Park did not represent a health risk based
   on the U.S.Enviromnental Protection Agency's regulatory criteria of not
   exceeding a one in a million risk of causing cancer.

   The study by ATSDR was part of its ongoing LLNL public health
   assessment. The Agency is charged with conducting these health
   assessments at all Department of Energy sites conducting environmental
   restoration under the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
   Compensation and Liability Act.

   Laboratory environmental scientists have also completed their rerview
   of the data from the 1998 sampling in Big Trees Park on which the ATSDR
   study is based.

   Both the ATSDR report and the Laboratory's studies may be viewed at
   http://www-envirinfo.llnl.gov/

   Please let me know if you would like a hard copy of these studies. The
   ATSDR study is still considered "draft" and has a public comment period
   which closes November 1. Any comments may be sent directly to ATSDR or
   to me and I will forward them to ATSDR.

   For copies of the studies or for any additional information call
   (925)424-4026 or contact heffner1@llnl.gov

   Sincerely,
   H.F.Heffner, Manager,
   Environmental Community Relations

   [go_up_btn.gif] Previous Page
   Modified: 31-Aug-00 10:29
   Disclaimer
