http://www.wapa.gov/interconn/intabout.htm

                                                           Skip navigation

   Western Area Power Administration logo Security & privacy policy link
   Home page button

                            Doing business button

                                      I

                                 Jobs button

                                      I

                    Electric Power Training Center button

                                      I

                                 FOIA button

                                      I

                             Media Center button

                                      I

                           Energy Services button

                                      I

                               Contact button

                           Power Marketing button

                           Power Operations button

                           Interconnecting button

                         Offices & Functions button

                             General Info button

                            Industry links button

                                                    Home > Interconnecting

                                     Interconnecting Banner expanding line


   About Interconnections

   Steps in the Interconnecting Process

   Costs

   Big Sandy Project
   Blythe Energy Project

   East Altamont Energy Center

   Interconnection Contacts

   Western accepts requests from electric utilities, firm-power customers,
   private power developers, and independent power generators to
   interconnect with its transmission system. Interconnection is a
   separate but parallel process to the transmission service request
   process detailed in Western’s Open Access Transmission Service Tariff
   (63 FR 521), the environmental review process outlined in the U.S.
   Department of Energy’s National Environmental Policy Act Implementing
   Procedures and Western’s land acquisition process. These processes may
   share steps in order to ensure an efficient interconnection. Western
   tries to make the separate processes as seamless as possible.

   We evaluate each request for interconnection separately and we’re
   subject to meeting reasonable needs of the requesting entity. Western
   assumes responsibilities to operate and maintain its interconnected
   facilities.

   Direct interconnection to Western’s facilities does not involve nor
   guarantee transmission capacity on Western’s system. Transmission
   service requests must be made following Western’s Open Access
   Transmission Service Tariff.

   For detailed information on the interconnection process, see the
   General Requirements for Interconnections booklet.

   (NOTE: To access the booklet, you must have Adobe Acrobat Reader
   installed on your computer.)
