http://www.tourism.wa.gov/Region.asp?region=3

   Washington State
                    A Little Trip to the Extraordinary
   North Cascades The Coast Olympic and Kitsap Peninsula Wine Country The
   Palouse
   Ponderosa Pine Country The Islands Volcano Country Columbia River
   Plateau Seattle
   Famous Places
   Outdoor Activities
   Cultural Attractions
   Lodging Associations
   Cities
   Visitor Information
   Festivals & Events
   Home Site Map Contact Us __________________
   Search

   As you cross the mountains from the west on your way to Wine Country,
   you emerge from the forest into the naked sun and dry, rippling hills
   of the Yakima Valley. Stretched out ahead, the Saddle Mountains wear
   little foliage and the bones of the earth are suddenly visible. The
   Yakima River cuts through arid Umtanum Ridge lined with gray-green
   shrubs that hug the dusty skin of the Earth. This is the home of the
   Yakama Nation whose cultural center welcomes you. A neighboring town
   even recreates the Old West in murals some painted in a single day
   before your eyes. And tucked amid the rolling steppes of this high
   desert, grow some of the world's most prized fruit and vegetables.

   Hops, orchards and vineyards bask in the healthy heat of summer days.
   In sharp contrast to the western slopes of the Cascades and the rain
   forests of the Olympic Peninsula, this region enjoys more than 300 days
   of sun each year. Cool nights provide the perfect respite for grapes
   and people alike. Rafting and inner tubing are also convenient escapes
   from the afternoon heat that hugs the hillsides and river canyons.

   Despite the reliable sun, snow melt from the mountains and irrigation
   from the Columbia River quench the thirst of renowned orchards and
   vineyards. It's pretty much common knowledge that Washington is the
   world leader in apple production. But few people are aware that the
   Yakima Valley also produces 75 percent of the hops grown in the U.S. Or
   that this same area is becoming famous for the asparagus, peppers,
   chiles and specialty foods found at roadside stands and farmers
   markets. In recent years, the wines of the Yakima Valley, Columbia
   Valley and Walla Walla Valley have become revered internationally,
   rivaling and even surpassing many of the best California and French
   wines. Raised in the rich volcanic soil and sharing the same latitude
   as Bordeaux, France, the wines of Washington win more awards
   proportional to production than any other wine region in the world.
   While this region of the state is justifiably famous for its vineyards
   and wineries, there are equally excellent vineyards and wineries in the
   Puget Sound and other areas of eastern Washington.

   Every couple weeks someone fulfills their passion and starts a winery
   in Washington. Ordinary people with a vision and expert winemakers from
   all over the world are coming here to plant their dreams in the rare
   combination of conditions. The wide range of varietals grown throughout
   the region includes the noble Chardonnay, Cabernet Sauvignon, Merlot,
   Riesling and Pinot Noir among others. Dozens of wineries are open for
   true aficionados and interested explorers to sample the fruits of love
   and labor. Unlike large vineyards in California and Europe, the growers
   and winemakers of Washington will often devote personal attention to
   visitors or stay long after closing to taste and discuss their craft.
   Touring the Wine Country of Washington is a uniquely intimate
   experience for the soul and the senses.

   Further east where the Columbia River winds through the U.S. Department
   of Energy Hanford Site, you can visit the last free-flowing stretch of
   the Columbia River. The 51 miles of Hanford Reach, as it's called, is
   the unexpected byproduct of security requirements for the neighboring
   nuclear power plant. Here, the unbridled river flows through a
   spectacular landscape of cliffs, dunes and shrub-steppe terrain. Along
   with the river itself, rare birds and animals find refuge in this
   protected tract of wilderness.

   If you enjoy wine and sun and escape from the air of urban existence,
   the Wine Country of Washington is a mandatory destination. Here, the
   quality of the fruit is rivaled perhaps only by the quality of life.
   The natural gifts of this region may be more subtle than the massive
   volcanoes and dense city centers just to the west. But look beneath the
   surface and discover the tasty secrets buried in the spirit of Wine
   Country.
   [spacer.gif]

   Not all cities in this region are shown above. For a complete list of
   all cities in this region, along with a city locator map, please click
   on the Cities page for each region.
   About Washington State Order Travel Information Transportation
   Press Room Survey Weather Kids

   Copyright 2000
