http://www.usfa.fema.gov/alerts/

   USFA Seal Blank Image Alerts and Advisories Banner Image


                               Safety Alerts
                  Navigation Menu Link Protective Clothing
                  Navigation Menu Link      Equipment
                  Navigation Menu Link      Apparatus
                  Navigation Menu Link        Other


SAFETY ALERTS AND ADVISORIES

   USFA posts safety alerts, recalls, press releases and other notices
   from companies and government agencies as a service to fire
   departments, consumers and other interested parties. USFA does not
   endorse either the product or the company listed.

   What's New Line




     OSHA Encourages Defibrillator Use to Revive Workers with Cardiac Arrest
     Because the use of Automated External Defibrillators (AEDs) can save
     the lives of workers who experience cardiac arrest while on the job,
     OSHA encouraged employers to consider making this equipment available
     in their workplaces.




     Compliance Directive for Bloodborne Pathogens Standard Updated
     The Occupational Safety and Health Administration issued a new
     compliance directive for enforcing the bloodborne pathogens standard
     that was revised in January. The standard became effective on April 18.




     Important User Advisory Concerning ICM^TM 2000 and ICM^TM 2000 Plus
     Units
     The Mine Safety Appliances Company (MSA) is currently investigating
     reports from customers concerning the operation of the ICM^TM 2000 and
     ICM^TM 2000 Plus Integrated Computer Modules (ICMs). These reports
     concern the user's inability to reset the PASS pre-alarm with motion,
     resulting in the unit going into a full alarm status.




     Trelleborg Viking Recalls Rotating Invalves
     Trelleborg Viking has announced the recall of all Viking rotating
     invalves marked ME2, MK6, ML7, NA1 purchased by consumers between
     September 1 1998-September 1 2000. A problem may exist with the valve
     swivel base that could be dangerous to the safety of divers.




     DOT Issues Safety Advisory on Improperly Tested SCUBA Tanks and Other
     Compressed Gas Cylinders
     The U.S. Department of Transportation's Research and Special Programs
     Administration (RSPA) is advising the public of potential dangers
     involving improperly tested self-contained underwater breathing
     apparatus (SCUBA) tanks, self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA)
     tanks, and other compressed gas cylinders.




     NHTSA Recall on Pierce Fire Truck
     Certain fire trucks built on commercial chassis with options for fuel
     tank step covers were built without drain holes in the aluminum step
     located below the fuel fill opening.




     NHTSA Recall on Spartan Motor, Inc., Fire Truck Tie Rod Ball-Socket
     Bearings
     On fire trucks equipped with certain TRW tie rod assemblies built with
     24-DL ball sockets, the tie rod ball-socket bearings have a
     below-specification case depth and/or hardness, which can lead to
     premature wear of the socket. If this condition occurs, the driver can
     lose control, possibly resulting in a crash.

         [ search | help | links | feedback | e-mail lists | home ]


    Last Updated: December 20, 2001

   FOOTER: UNITED STATES FIRE ADMINISTRATION
