http://www.absc.usgs.gov/glba/benthic_mapping.htm

   U.S.G.S. - Science for a changing world

   Side navigation bar for the Benthic Mapping project at Glacier Bay
   Mountains in Glacier Bay National Park
   Alaska Biological Science Center              Glacier Bay National Park
   Projects

    Benthic habitat mapping at Glacier Bay, Alaska: Integrating physical
                          structure and biohabitats

   Investigators:  Hooge, Philip N. & Paul R. Carlson
   Duration:   Start Date: 10/1/2000             End Date:  9/31/2004
   Facility Contact: Hooge, Philip N. (Alaska Biological Science Center)
   Facility Name:
        Alaska Biological Science Center
        Glacier Bay Field Station
        Phone: 907-697-2637
        Fax: 907-697-2654
        E-mail: philip_hooge@usgs.gov

   USGS Rebreather Evaluation Program

   PROJECT DESCRIPTION:

   By using a combination of multibeam echosounding surveys, sidescan
   sonar, and ground-truthing efforts, we will map the benthic biohabitats
   of Glacier Bay to provide crucial habitat data necessary to interpret
   and respond to multiple resource issues facing the National Park
   Service.   Multibeam technology will be used to obtain detailed
   bathymetry and reflectance data indicative of substrate type and tied
   to precise locational data.    Multibeam surveys will be conducted as
   part of a joint effort with the State of Alaska utilizing R/V Media  in
   order to reduce the survey and to foster the sharing of benthic mapping
   methodologies and data with the State of Alaska Department of Fish and
   Game.  The bathymetric data will be processed in real time aboard the
   vessel.  We anticipate complete coverage of all areas in the Bay not
   side-scanned in previous years, but will first prioritize prior study
   areas, areas closed immediately to commercial fishing, and areas of
   known species concentrations.  Bathymetric surveys will be conducted in
   2001 and 2002. Sampling in 2002 is contingent on funding.

   We will use areas previously ground-truthed by extensive dive work
   during 1999 and  2000 to calibrate the initial interpretation of
   habitat polygons.  Contingent on funding for ground-truthing efforts,
   we will conduct ground-truthing work from R/V Alaskan Gyre to test the
   predictions of preliminary habitat maps.  Ground-truthing will make use
   of multiple techniques depending on water depth, tidal currents, and
   visibility.  Areas to 160 feet depth will be ground-truthed with diver
   transects and digital videography.  Deeper areas will imaged with
   digital videography from both an ROV (remotely operated vehicle) and a
   drop camera.  Precise locational data for diver and camera-based
   ground-truthing will be obtained with a combination of differential GPS
   and sonar triangulation.  We will also submit a NURP (National Undersea
   Research Program) proposal for the Delta submersible to conduct further
   ground-truthing of deep areas.  In addition, sediment sampling will be
   performed with Shipek and Van Veen bottom grab-samplers.

   Final interpretation of habitat polygons will occur after
   ground-truthing is complete.  We will synthesize bathymetry,
   reflectance, geo-referenced ground-truthing data, sediment samples,
   hard-rock geology maps of surrounding areas, and extensive data on
   oceanographic patterns obtained since 1991, and will use geological
   interpolation and biological evaluation to determine meaningful
   habitats.

   After production of the final habitat maps, the data will be correlated
   with marine species data obtained previously from sonic- and
   radio-tagged animals, sampling surveys, and direct observation.

   APPLICATION OF RESEARCH:

   The Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act
   for Fiscal Year 1999 immediately closed parts of Glacier Bay National
   Park to commercial fishing, directed other parts to close after the
   lifetime of qualifying fishermen, and left some parts open to continued
   commercial fishing.  Senator Murkowski and the Alaska State
   Legislature, however, are challenging this legislation, and Alaska’s
   Governor, Tony Knowles, filed a lawsuit in late November 1999 against
   the Department of Interior over jurisdiction of the marine waters of
   Glacier Bay.  The result of the current legislation is a patchwork of
   marine reserve areas of varying sizes, shapes, and habitat types based
   primarily on political rather than biological criteria, with no
   information on their potential to act as reserves for commercially
   fished species.  Efforts are currently underway to examine the movement
   patterns, diet, and distribution of critical species as well as the
   oceanographic patterns of the Bay.  However, these studies are
   significantly hampered by the paucity of data on marine benthic
   biohabitats.  A unique opportunity exists at Glacier Bay for
   cooperative efforts between the Geological Division and the Biological
   Resources Division to provide critical missing information that will be
   directly used to address a management issue under intense scrutiny at
   the national level.

   By combining the fisheries and oceanographic expertise of the Glacier
   Bay Field Station with the geological expertise of the Western Region
   Coastal and Marine Geology Team, we will produce base data layers on
   marine benthic biohabitats needed for determining the efficacy of
   marine reserves at Glacier Bay, including: 1) the distribution and
   abundance of benthic habitat types within Glacier Bay; 2) the
   distribution and abundance of previously identified critical habitat,
   such as crab spawning areas; and 3) the relationships of sonic-tagged
   halibut, Tanner, king and Dungeness crab with benthic habitat types.

   In addition to addressing marine reserve issues, our data will also be
   used to understand multiple geological questions, including: 1) the
   location, distribution, and pattern of ice gouging in Glacier Bay; 2)
   patterns of the rapid and extensive glacial retreat observed in Glacier
   Bay; and 3) patterns of marine sedimentation in a recently deglaciated
   habitat.

   Finally, our data will be used to address several Hazards issues.
   Glacier Bay is the premier destination for Southeast Alaska’s large
   international cruise ship industry.  It is also a prized destination
   for many private and tour vessels, yet adequate bathymetric data do not
   exist for extensive portions of the Bay.  In addition, because of the
   rapid rates of sedimentation and uplift much of the bathymetric
   information that does exist is questionable.  For example, side-scan
   sonar work in 1998 revealed a previously unknown spire of rock that
   rises from 600 feet to a depth of 30 feet, of the surface, within one
   nautical mile of the Bay’s major cruise ship route.  In addition,
   Glacier Bay was the site of large tour vessel groundings in both 1993
   and 1999.  Besides presenting danger to the physical safety of boat
   passengers and crew, uncharted navigational hazards could result in
   significant oil spills endangering marine species throughout the Bay.

   PROGRESS:  01/01/2001

   As part of a separate SIS ( 5001252, closed in 2000), four-years of
   prior field work have been conducted side-scanning portions of Glacier
   Bay and developing protocols and methods for ground-truthing and
   determining biohabitats. The first multibeam mapping trip will be
   conducted in Glacier Bay in June of 2001.

   PRODUCTS:

   1.)    Benthic Biohabitats of Glacier Bay CDRom Set:  This is the
   primary product of this study to be used by a wide range of ancillary
   studies and resource issues.  This will be the the sidescan sonar
   mosaics, multibeam reflectance echosounding mosaics, bathymetric model,
   Groundtruthing digital point files, and interpreted geological
   polygons, oceanographic summary polygons, and benthic biohabitat map.

   2.)    Benthic mapping efforts in Glacier Bay(1996-2000): Side-scan
   sonar mosaics, ground truthing, and benthic habitat maps of selected
   areas in Glacier Bay. : This is a report of the efforts prior to the
   multibeam echosounding profiles.

   3.)    Benthic mapping efforts in Glacier Bay final report:  The final
   report detailing the methodology and results of multibeam echosounding
   and ground truthing efforts to map benthic biohabitats throughout
   Glacier Bay. This report will contrast the prior efforts utilizing just
   side-scan sonar with the combined methodologies.

                               Last Reviewed:
