http://www.amtrakreformcouncil.gov/testimonies/test022401.pdf

   ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! AMTRAK REFORM COUNCIL !!!! !!!! !!!! THE
   COUNCIL BEFORE THE SUBCOMMITTEE ON RAILROADS Gilbert E. Carmichael
   Chairman COMMITTEE ON TRANSPORTATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE UNITED STATES
   HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES Paul M. Weyrich Vice Chairman
   ___________________________________________________ Bruce Chapman Nancy
   Rutledge Connery For Release on Delivery James E. Coston Expected at
   10:00 a.m. EDT Wendell Cox Wednesday, Christopher K. Gleason July 25,
   2001 S. Lee Kling Hon. Norman Y. Mineta Charles Moneypenny Testimony of
   the Hon. John O. Norquist AMTRAK REFORM COUNCIL EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
   Thomas A. Till STATEMENT OF GILBERT E. CARMICHAEL CHAIRMAN JM-ARC, Room
   7105 Phone: (202) 366-0591 400 Seventh Street, SW Fax: (202) 493-2061
   Washington, DC 20590 ! ! ! ! The ARC is an independent federal
   commission established under the Amtrak Reform and Accountability Act
   of 1997 (P.L. 105-134) STATEMENT OF GILBERT E. CARMICHAEL, ON BEHALF OF
   THE AMTRAK REFORM COUNCIL, BEFORE THE SUBCOMMITTEE ON RAILROADS
   COMMITTEE ON TRANSPORTATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE, UNITED STATES HOUSE OF
   REPRESENTATIVES JULY 25, 2001 Mr. Chairman, thank you for inviting the
   Amtrak Reform Council to address your Committee's oversight hearing on
   Amtrak. My name is Gil Carmichael, and I am Chairman of the Council.
   Tom Till, the Council's Executive Director, accompanies me this
   morning. With your permission, Mr. Chairman, I would like to summarize
   the Council's statement for the Committee and submit the full text for
   the record. RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN AMTRAK'S EFFORTS TO ATTAIN OPERATING
   SELF-SUFFICIENCY Amtrak's FY 2000 "Budget Result" was $109 million
   below its Strategic Business Plan. Amtrak's FY 2001 performance will be
   significantly worse. Through the first six months of this fiscal year,
   Amtrak lost $214 million for purposes of self-sufficiency, which is $38
   million behind where it was for the first six months of last year. To
   stay on its glide path to self-sufficiency, Amtrak will have to turn a
   profit of $36 million in the second half of this fiscal year, which
   would represent a $250 million improvement over its performance during
   the first half of FY 2001. Continuing delays both in bringing more
   Acela Express trains into revenue service and in implementing plans for
   major cost reductions or increases in profitable revenues will make it
   more difficult for Amtrak to achieve its FY2001 projected Budget
   Result. In addition to this retrospective analysis, Mr. Chairman, two
   recent issues reflect on Amtrak's progress towards self-sufficiency
   that have received a great deal of public attention. The first is the
   mortgaging of part of the assets of Penn Station, New York City, at
   9.25 percent for 16 years, to obtain $300 million in operating cash to
   get Amtrak through the current fiscal year, which ends September 30,
   2001. This is a clear example of the difficulties Amtrak is having in
   improving its financial performance to attain self-sufficiency. A
   second, and certainly related, event is the "strategic redirection"
   just getting underway at Amtrak, as reported in the Washington Post on
   Tuesday, July 17, 2001. Over the past several years Amtrak has
   announced several major new initiatives to help it attain operational
   self- sufficiency. These efforts have obviously not provided the
   benefits that Amtrak expected. More than 20 months after the Council
   formally recommended that Amtrak begin a program of systematic
   reductions in overhead expenses, we are encouraged that Amtrak appears
   to have embarked on a program to control its burgeoning costs. The
   Council looks forward to seeing the results. Mr. Chairman, we believe
   the continuing difficulties Amtrak is having ratify the Council's
   conclusion that we need a major restructuring of our nation's program
   for intercity rail passenger service, including a corporate
   restructuring of Amtrak along the lines the Council recommends. THE
   AMTRAK REFORM COUNCIL'S PROPOSALS FOR CHANGES IN THE STRUCTURE OF
   AMTRAK AND ITS SUPPORTING INSTITUTIONS The Council recommended a major
   redesign of Amtrak and the institutions that support it. The Amtrak
   Reform Council Has Proposed a New Business Model for Amtrak The Council
   has concluded that Amtrak's current business model needs two structural
   changes: 1. First, its nationwide train operations need to be separated
   (at a minimum, from an accounting standpoint) from the management and
   funding of the Northeast Corridor infrastructure. * The Council is not
   proposing that we institute the kind of track separation that has been
   done in the United Kingdom. Unlike what was done in Britain, the
   Council is not proposing to remove the infrastructure from the majority
   user; it is not proposing private ownership of the infrastructure; and
   it is not proposing that the infrastructure organization have a board
   of directors that does not represent the users of the corridor. What
   the Council is proposing is an Amtrak-owned or U.S. Government-owned
   structure that could be likened to an East Coast passenger version of
   the Alameda Corridor  a shared asset controlled by a Board of Directors
   representing its users. * Wells Fargo and Credit Lyonnais required that
   a separate entity be carved out of Penn Station before they would lend
   $300 million in operating cash to Amtrak last month. We believe the
   taxpayers deserve the same transparency and accountability in dealing
   with a massive system of infrastructure, on which Amtrak is a minority
   user, and whose investment requirements are far beyond any rational
   capital funding that Amtrak as an integrated train operating and
   infrastructure will be given or would be able to use effectively. * The
   Council's March 2001 Report points out that combining the financial
   operations of the Northeast Corridor infrastructure with those of
   Amtrak's national intercity train operations seriously degrades the
   financial performance and ultimate accountability of Amtrak's train
   operations. Reasonable estimates indicate that the burden to Amtrak of
   its ownership of the Northeast Corridor infrastructure may place as
   much as $300 million in uncompensated cash expense on Amtrak's income
   statement, in addition to requiring a comparable annual magnitude of
   capital expenditures. Amtrak has not yet provided the Council with
   separate financial statements on the Northeast Corridor infrastructure
   to confirm these estimates, even though such statements were promised
   by early 2001 in an August 2000 letter from Amtrak. 2 2. Second,
   Amtrak's core business of passenger, mail, and express train
   operations, as well as the infrastructure, need to be insulated from
   direct political influence by consolidating existing governmental
   program functions for Amtrak in the Federal Railroad Administration or
   another appropriate federal agency or oversight entity. Such an entity
   could also take on the additional responsibilities that would accrue to
   the federal government for corridor development. With these changes,
   new and separate funding sources can be provided: 1. For equipping and
   operating the national system of intercity rail passenger services.
   This will most likely be done through appropriated funds, an excise
   tax, or a combination of these two funding mechanisms. 2. For renewing
   and improving the capacity and operating speed of the infrastructure of
   the Northeast Corridor, the other federally-designated high-speed rail
   corridors, and the network of inter-corridor trains. This will most
   likely be done through appropriated funds or some form of
   federally-subsidized bonds. THE PROPOSED HIGH-SPEED RAIL INVESTMENT ACT
    H. R. 2329 and S. 250 The "High Speed Rail Investment Act" would
   authorize Amtrak to issue $12 billion in bonds to finance high-speed
   rail projects. The Council is on record as favoring funding for the
   responsible, economic development of the emerging high-speed rail
   corridors. Regarding the proposed High Speed Rail Investment bonds, the
   Council has said that, if the bonds are the only way the Congress can
   find to fund development of the federally-designated corridors, then
   the Council would support the bonds, with the amendments set forth
   below. Twelve billion dollars would be a start. This is true for all
   but the Northeast Corridor, where high priority funding needs exceed
   substantially the amount of funding likely to be available under the
   High Speed Rail Investment Act. The Council recommends that, should the
   Congress decide to take up the bond bill, the following amendments be
   incorporated: * The funds should be used principally for infrastructure
   improvements; bond funds should only be used for equipment expenditures
   if private-sector financing is not available. * States and regional
   rail transportation authorities should also be able to issue the bonds,
   where permitted to do so by their state constitutions. * DOT and the
   states should control the selection of projects outside the NEC. Assets
   outside the NEC are not Amtrak's assets, and Amtrak no longer has a
   monopoly to provide intercity rail passenger service. * Objective
   criteria are needed for evaluating, prioritizing, and approving
   projects submitted to be funded by the bonds. 3 * Each project should
   be evaluated by an impartial government body on its own merits and free
   from any requirement that Amtrak operate the services benefiting from
   the funding. * All funds, including both state contributions and bond
   proceeds, should be under the control of an Independent Trustee and
   should not be permitted to be entangled in any manner with the internal
   finances of any issuer. Alternative High Speed Rail Investment Bonds As
   Chairman of the Amtrak Reform Council, I asked the Council staff to
   investigate whether there might be alternative high-speed rail
   investment bonds that would achieve the objectives of developing the
   corridors while addressing the Council's concerns about the current
   bond proposal. The staff talked to states, the Department of the
   Treasury, committee staff members, investment bankers, and our own
   Council members, who have experience in financial markets, and came up
   with two alternative bonds. The alternative bonds address the main
   concerns the Council identified with S. 250 and H.R. 2329, but their
   price may limit their attractiveness to the states. An alternative
   comparable in structure to the proposed high-speed bonds would have the
   states and the private railroads put up 35-38 percent in an escrow
   account, which would be invested in a special issue zero coupon U.S.
   Treasury obligation with a maturity date coinciding with the maturity
   date of the bonds being issued. Such an arrangement eliminates the
   financial risk that there would not be sufficient funds in the escrow
   fund to fully redeem the maturing bonds. Another approach would be to
   authorize special private activity, tax-exempt bonds to would be issued
   by the states but would be exempt from the U.S. Treasury Department per
   capita limitations on the amount of such obligations that states can
   issue annually ($75 per resident). Since the credit for these bonds
   would be based on the pledge of trackage rights fees by the users of
   the bonds, it would be essential for the underlying rail operators to
   be financially sound and that the inherent demand for rail improvements
   is likely to continue. We will continue to refine these alternatives
   with the goal of making them more attractive. * * * * * * * Mr.
   Chairman, before I conclude my statement, I would like to address one
   further point. Nothing in the Council's positions recommends any
   changes in the laws or contracts that affect the rights of rail labor
   with regard to rail passenger service. Changing those laws is not the
   Council's job, and it's not on our agenda. To the contrary, I believe
   that, if we can create a more effective intercity rail passenger
   system, there will be more rail passenger jobs for railway labor than
   since before the formation of Amtrak. 4 In closing, Mr. Chairman, let
   me introduce other members of the Council in attendance, James Coston,
   appointed by Senator Tom Daschle and Nancy Rutledge Connery, appointed
   by Senator Trent Lott. Thank you for inviting to the Council to
   testify. I will be pleased to answer any questions you or other members
   of the Committee might have. ### 5 SUMMARY OF THE COUNCIL'S SECOND
   ANNUAL REPORT The Amtrak Reform Council's second annual report1 reaches
   a number of conclusions about passenger rail service in America: *
   Amtrak as it is today has not and will never meet our expectations for
   improved rail passenger service, whether we are talking about
   reasonable expectations for either improvements in financial
   performance or for consistent, higher quality service for its
   customers. * While Amtrak is performing poorly, demand for rail
   passenger service is increasing as travelers face congested highways
   and frequent aviation delays. There is a strong resurgence of state
   interest in improving passenger rail service, particularly higher-speed
   service in crowded inter- urban corridors. * The Council determined
   that Amtrak's long-term failure to improve its performance is due to
   its fundamentally flawed institutional structure, and not to Amtrak's
   Board of Directors, managers, or employees. The Council's report calls
   for fundamental reforms. RECOMMENDATIONS FOR INSTITUTIONAL CHANGE AND A
   NEW BUSINESS MODEL The Council believes the root of Amtrak's
   institutional problems is in its charter legislation, the Rail
   Passenger Service Act of 1970. If passenger service is to improve and
   to grow, these flaws need to be addressed: * Amtrak was established to
   serve the commercial marketplace but operates in many important
   respects like a government agency. Political considerations keep Amtrak
   from being run as a well-run business. The Council believes, and I
   personally agree, that a major part of the reason that Amtrak does not
   act more like a business is that it has to live in a heavily
   politicized climate. Amtrak's commercial functions should be separated
   from its government functions and run like a business. * Amtrak owns,
   funds, operates, and maintains much of the Northeast Corridor (NEC)
   rail right-of- way and real estate, a burden Amtrak cannot afford. NEC
   infrastructure responsibilities also divert Amtrak's attention from its
   core business as a provider of intercity rail passenger, mail, and
   express services. Passenger train operations should be conducted by a
   customer-focused commercial enterprise shielded from political
   interference, much like a well-managed airline. Infrastructure should
   be managed by a government entity that would own, fund, operate, and
   maintain the Northeast Corridor and other infrastructure now owned by
   Amtrak. The remedy is to appropriately separate Amtrak's train
   operations from the ownership, management, and funding responsibilities
   for the Northeast Corridor. * The government needs a stronger, more
   focused government program agency to administer funds for passenger
   service, develop public policy on passenger service issues, insulate
   train operations and the infrastructure entity from political
   interference, and provide oversight. Amtrak needs an effective program
   agency that can hold its passenger train and its NEC infrastructure
   businesses accountable and insulate them from political pressure.
   Government would continue as a major source of financial support,
   principally in the form of capital funding for infrastructure. Amtrak's
   1 Amtrak Reform Council, Intercity Rail Passenger Service in America:
   Status, Problems, and Options for Reform, 2nd Annual Report to
   Congress, March 2001. 6 governmental functions, together with the
   Amtrak program responsibilities of DOT, should be consolidated in a
   single government entity  which could be a parent corporation with a
   properly-structured board of directors or a government agency. The
   government entity would not be new layer of bureaucracy; it would be a
   governing body with defined oversight responsibilities to ensure that
   the Amtrak train operating company and other Amtrak subsidiaries
   operate as effective businesses. * There is presently no secure source
   of capital funding for passenger rail service. The Council believes
   Congress should provide a stable and adequate source of federal funding
   for the capital needs of the NEC and other rail passenger assets.
   STRUCTURAL OPTIONS Various approaches exist for restructuring Amtrak to
   separate its infrastructure, train operations, and government
   functions. The Council has developed for discussion five such options
   representing points on a continuum of possible structures, not an
   exclusive list. These options range from splitting Amtrak into two or
   three companies, to involving the states more heavily in rail passenger
   service, to partial or complete privatization of Amtrak. The Council
   believes that privatization of Amtrak along the lines of the British
   model is impracticable at this time. CAPITAL FUNDING ESTIMATES This
   year Amtrak defined its 20-year capital requirements  $23.6 billion in
   funding to maintain the current system and $73.6 billion for growth,
   including the high-speed corridors, for a total of some $97 billion for
   the entire 22,000-mile national system. Amtrak is requesting that the
   federal government fund $30 billion of this total, or $1.5 billion per
   year. Of this amount, some $16 billion would be used to support current
   service and $14 billion would be used to provide "seed money" for
   high-speed rail development. The relationship between the $12 billion
   in bonds, and Amtrak's request for $30 billion is not clear. CONCLUSION
   AND NEXT STEPS This summary of our report demonstrates the Council's
   conviction that America needs a "new Amtrak" with an effective
   institutional framework, separated from the costly burden of the
   Northeast Corridor infrastructure, incentives to operate efficiently,
   and a customer-focused corporate culture. In upcoming formal hearings,
   the Council will gather comments from federal, state, and local
   officials, freight railroads, the public, Amtrak, and other interested
   parties. What we learn will help us to enhance our recommendations. Our
   goal is to provide to the Congress our detailed recommendations by
   early next year. 7 Appendix 2 THE PROPOSAL TO AUTHORIZE SPECIAL BONDS
   TO FINANCE HIGH-SPEED RAIL INVESTMENTS A possible source to fund a
   portion of the development and improvement of existing and future rail
   passenger corridors is the $12 billion of bonds in the proposed High
   Speed Rail Investment Act (S. 250 and H.R.2329).2 The new bills provide
   for $1.2 billion in bonds per year for 10 years. A minimum of 20
   percent of project costs is to be funded by state matching funds for
   each project. The states' 20 percent funding match would be invested in
   escrow accounts for 20 years with the expectation that the states'
   funds will grow through investment income to equal the par value of the
   bonds in 20 years and would be available to redeem the bonds when they
   mature. Holders of High Speed Rail Investment Act bonds would receive
   federal income tax credits quarterly in lieu of receiving cash interest
   over the 20-year lives of the bonds. Is $12 billion needed? Without a
   doubt. And considerably more, in fact, if we are serious about
   addressing existing infrastructure needs in the NEC and elsewhere and
   improving and expanding intercity rail passenger service in those
   corridors where anticipated transportation benefits and potential
   demand would justify the investment.3 Indeed, even assuming that, in
   some form and at some time, $1.2 billion per year of high-speed rail
   bonds for corridor development is provided, Amtrak would still need
   sums approaching $1 billion per year in other funds just to maintain
   its existing infrastructure and operations. The Council would not be
   doing its duty as an independent oversight agency if it did not point
   one thing out. The reason we are all facing the very difficult issues
   that these bonds pose quoting from the Council's first annual report
   is that: Unlike roads and air, however, neither local nor state
   governments nor the federal government have determined an institutional
   and financial solution for adding the track and equipment capacity to
   provide an expanded system of intercity rail passenger service. The
   privately- owned rail freight rights-of-way present unique issues
   compared to the publicly-owned and publicly-funded national systems of
   highways, airports, and airways. Rail rights-of-way, unlike other modes
   of transportation, do not have a stable funding mechanism for rail
   passenger corridor development.4 Under current transportation policy,
   Amtrak is doing what, in other modes, is done by two separate (and
   separately funded) types of organizations: one focusing on
   infrastructure and one focusing on transport operations. The
   infrastructure organization is exemplified by the roles of the Federal
   Highway Administration operating in concert with the state highway
   departments, the Federal Aviation Administration, and the Corps of
   Engineers. The role of transport operations is  in all of these other
   modes  carried out by operating companies that carry passengers, mail,
   and express. Transport companies in modes other than rail are not
   entangled with huge infrastructure funding 2 The Senate and House bills
   are essentially the same but differ in certain respects as discussed
   infra. 3 The Amtrak Reform and Accountability Act charges the Council
   with a positive mission  to recommend improvements in Amtrak and, if
   Amtrak cannot improve to the extent the Congress requires, to design an
   improved national intercity rail passenger system. The Council was
   established to determine the best way to improve our national rail
   passenger system, and the Council sees the need for a major investment
   in passenger rail service over the coming years. 4 Amtrak Reform
   Council, First Annual Report, January 2000, p.1. 8 burdens; they pay
   user fees for the use of infrastructure, and they focus their attention
   on serving the traveling public. Against this backdrop, the Council's
   concern with this proposed legislation has two dimensions  policy and
   practicality. From an overall policy standpoint, has this approach
   really been thought through thoroughly? Is this bond mechanism, aside
   from the matter of who issues them, the best way to finance passenger
   rail capital needs? It depends on what parts of those needs are being
   looked at. It is almost certainly not a sound way to fund (nor is it
   intended to fund) the capital needs of Amtrak the corporation. But it
   might well be a reasonable way to fund long-term infrastructure
   improvements to the Federally- Designated High-Speed Rail Corridors
   (FDHSRCs). That raises these specific policy issues: 1. Is Amtrak, from
   all standpoints, the best vehicle for issuing these bonds? * It does
   have about $5 billion in Net Operating Loss Carryovers (NOLs), arguably
   available to shelter future escrow fund net income from income tax
   liability, but the NOLs exist because historical government funding
   primarily was made in the form of preferred stock investments in Amtrak
   by the government. Given the low likelihood that Amtrak will ever be
   able to redeem its preferred stock, arguably the government funding
   should have been characterized as operating grants rather than capital
   investments. If such funding had been characterized as operating
   grants, Amtrak would not have any NOLs. Even if the IRS does not make
   any audit adjustments to existing Amtrak NOLs, there are not likely to
   be sufficient losses going forward to offset escrow fund interest
   income once the approximately $5 billion of NOLs are used. Going
   forward, there are 20 years (years 11 through 30 of the 30-year life of
   the proposed program) when interest earnings on the trust fund will be
   approximately $660 million per year, which will be about $250 million
   more per annum than Amtrak's likely depreciation expense. The
   combination of these two charges against the $5 billion in Net
   Operating Loss carryovers will exhaust them a number of years before
   the program is over. * There is, therefore, a significant financial
   risk that Amtrak will have to fund the shortfalls between the par
   values of the maturing bonds and the amounts that have accumulated in
   the escrow accounts. * Should Amtrak's balance sheet be burdened with
   $12 billion in debt (or with the contingent liability for such debt)
   for improvements to the infrastructure, most of which Amtrak does not
   own? What will this do to Amtrak's ability to borrow in private
   markets? * Should major program and related financing responsibilities
   be delegated to a corporation which is clearly having difficulties
   getting its core business to run well, and which is facing the need to
   achieve self-sufficiency by December 2, 2002? 2. Has there been a clear
   assessment of the best potential roles of public financing and private
   capital markets? 3. And finally, has there been any solid attempt to
   determine the best possible way for money to be invested in the
   infrastructure improvements of America's private railroads in order to
   provide the capacity and speed improvements needed to implement the
   FDHSRCs? 9 The proposed bond mechanism in effect uses Amtrak as a sort
   of Fannie Mae for selected portions of the infrastructure of the
   railroad industry which Amtrak uses. One reason for the choice is clear
    the $5 billion in NOLs that Amtrak currently holds will shelter a
   portion of the escrow Funds' taxable interest income needed to grow on
   a compounded basis and be available in 20 years to repay the bonds.
   There are, however, a number of issues surrounding the bonds that could
   increase their risk and cost. The analysis by the Joint Committee on
   Taxation of last year's $10 billion bond bill determined that the
   "scoring" cost of the bonds would only be approximately $3.5 billion,
   under rules used by the Committee that look only at the first 10 years
   that the bond program exists.5 In fact, the bonds will be outstanding
   30 years total (20 year maturity bonds issued over 10 years will result
   in a portion of these bonds being outstanding for 30 years), and,
   during that 30 year period, the $10 billion of bonds would likely cost
   federal taxpayers $16 billion and state taxpayers $2 billion, or a
   total of $18 billion. The recent General Accounting Office (GAO)
   analysis of the High-Speed Investment Act (S.250) concurs in this
   approach to estimating the actual cost of the $12 billion bond
   proposal.6 The GAO report concludes that "the tax credit for Amtrak
   bonds would cost the U.S. Treasury between $16.6 billion and $19.1
   billion (in nominal dollars) over 30 years."7 Given the $80 billion to
   $100 billion magnitude of projected rail passenger investment required
   over the upcoming 20 to 25 years (Amtrak's estimate), more expensive
   financing mechanisms will make it more difficult to implement rail
   passenger improvements, regardless of how they currently are "scored"
   for legislative purposes. A much more efficient mechanism for the
   federal government to raise rail investment funds for designated rail
   passenger corridors would be for the federal government to (1) borrow
   the funds, or repay less outstanding federal debt, and (2) provide 80
   percent grants to the projects with 20 percent matching grants provided
   by the states; the funds would go directly into the projects rather
   than into an escrow fund; and the federal government would not issue
   tax credits to bond holders; the current cost of borrowing funds to the
   federal government is approximately 6 percent long term versus a likely
   7.5 to 8 percent that the federal government would have to pay in tax
   credits on the proposed bonds. Indeed, the GAO report concludes that
   "the cost of the tax credits to the U.S. Treasury under the bond
   approach would be at least $400 million greater and could be more than
   $3 billion greater (in present value terms) than providing annual
   appropriations of an equivalent amount."8 Moreover, there would be no
   risk that (a) the escrow fund would not grow sufficiently to repay the
   bond principal in 20 years; (b) that bond proceeds were not used for
   qualified expenditures in a timely manner and therefore have to be
   repaid early; (c) that Amtrak may not have sufficient losses to shelter
   interest earnings of the escrow funds; and (d) that the administrative
   costs of issuing the bonds would be higher than anticipated. This is
   where issues of practicality come in. In the event that the Congress
   decides to pass the bond bill, the Council believes that it should be
   done with the following amendments: (a) The funds primarily should be
   used for infrastructure improvements, with 90 percent for the FDHSRCs
   and 10 percent for non-FDHSRCs (the 10 percent should be allocated to
   non- 5 The "scoring" cost is the amount of tax credits issued during
   the first ten years of the program, but the scoring methodology assumes
   that the bonds are only outstanding for 20% of the first year that each
   year's traunch of bonds is issued. 6 The GAO report (dated June 25,
   2001) was publicly released in mid-July. 7 GAO Report at 1. 8 GAO
   Report at 2. 10 Corridor states by DOT) and bond funds should only be
   used for equipment expenditures if private-sector financing of
   equipment is not available. (The Council believes that passenger
   equipment can be funded in large part by the private sector.) (b) If
   bonds are to be a possible source of funding for the development of
   high-speed rail passenger service projects, the states, including state
   and regional rail transportation authorities, should be able to issue
   the bonds in addition to Amtrak. (c) There should be adequate criteria
   for evaluating and assigning priorities to candidate projects, with DOT
   and the states playing major roles in the selection of projects. Amtrak
   should not be in the business of choosing projects outside the NEC.
   Assets outside the NEC are not Amtrak's assets, nor does Amtrak have a
   monopoly to provide rail passenger transportation, particularly outside
   of the NEC. (d) Effective oversight arrangements need to be in place
   for projects to be funded by the bonds. (e) Each project should be
   evaluated and approved by an impartial government body on its own
   merits, free from any requirement that Amtrak be the sole provider of
   the services benefiting from the funding. (f) All funds, including both
   state contributions and bond proceeds, should be under the control of
   an Independent Trustee and should not be able to be borrowed by Amtrak
   (or any other issuer), or otherwise be entangled with the internal
   finances of Amtrak and other rail service operating entities. (Under
   the Senate bill, Amtrak would directly receive and may temporarily use
   without specific statutory restriction bond proceeds for the five-year
   "temporary investment period" provided under the bill. Although the
   House bill requires that all bond proceeds be initially deposited with
   the independent trustee, the bill does not explicitly preclude Amtrak
   from withdrawing bond proceeds in advance of project funding
   requirements and "borrowing" them for the three- year "temporary
   investment period" provided in the bill.) To permit commingling of
   funds would create a risk of having the proceeds entangled in the
   internal finances of the issuer in a way that could put the bond
   proceeds and the bond escrow account at risk in the event of creditors'
   claims.9 (Moreover, discussions the Council's staff has had with
   financial experts experienced in bonds indicate that, when the
   prospectuses for these Bonds are issued, and when bond counsel is asked
   to deliver legal opinions to potential bond investors, if Bond proceeds
   can be mixed with Amtrak's internal funds, such a possibility could
   raise the perceived financial risks and interest rates of the Bonds,
   and possibly make the bonds impossible to sell without government
   guarantees.) In addition to the above modifications, there are other
   issues raised in S. 250 and H.R. 2329 that need to be addressed. 1. S.
   250 specifically provides that "State matching contributions may
   include privately funded contributions." (H.R. 2329, although silent on
   the issue, does not preclude, and presumably would also allow, the
   state match to include privately funded contributions.) Amtrak, in its
   February 15, 2001 Fiscal Year 2002 Legislative Report (at 5), takes the
   position that the 20 percent "non-federal match" that the state is
   required to contribute to each high-speed rail corridor project, "will
   come from various sources, including Amtrak, freight railroads and
   communities...."(Emphasis added.) * Amtrak should not be permitted to
   be considered a "non-federal source" for purposes of the state matching
   contribution requirement. To allow Amtrak to provide the states'
   matching fund requirement defeats the very purpose of the requirement,
   which is to ensure that the 9 In Amtrak's case, this would include the
   risk of default on its commercial debt obligations that Amtrak, in
   Appropriations testimony, has stated that it could indeed face. 11
   states (or public or private non-federal beneficiaries on behalf of the
   state) share the costs and financial risks of a project with the
   federal government (through the Amtrak bond mechanism) that they
   consider worthy of being funded. * To allow Amtrak to make 20 percent
   contributions on behalf of states renders the matching requirement
   essentially meaningless: Amtrak would be simply putting up 20 percent
   of a project's cost with funds derived at least indirectly from its
   annual federal subsidies and in return would receive back five times
   that amount in new funds via the federal tax credit supported bond
   mechanism; the bonds would run a high risk of effectively becoming a
   mechanism for funding Amtrak's internal operating requirements (e.g.,
   for progressive overhauls, capital expenditures required on corridors
   for operational reliability projects, and/or support of a portion of
   Amtrak's corporate overhead costs which could be allocated to qualified
   high-speed rail projects) rather than a mechanism for funding
   high-speed rail projects in conjunction with the states as intended.
   Both bills specifically contain a provision that provides that "State
   matching contributions shall not be derived, directly or indirectly,
   from Federal funds, including any transfers from the Highway Trust
   Fund...." This prohibition, as well as the specific requirement for
   state matching funds, arguably should be construed as precluding Amtrak
   from itself providing the matching funds. 2. Both bills eliminate the
   requirement in previously introduced bills (S.1900 and H.R. 3700) that
   the Secretary of Transportation, in approving qualified projects,
   "shall give preference to any project with a State matching
   contribution rate exceeding 20 percent." S.250 instead provides that
   the Secretary "may" give preference in such a case. * This change from
   the previous bills goes in the wrong direction. The purpose of the bond
   bill should be to provide federal funds for rail passenger projects
   that serve real transportation demands. Perhaps the best measure of a
   project's importance is the demonstrated willingness of a region, state
   or locality to contribute its own funds to the project. If a state
   agrees to contribute more than 20 percent to the cost of a project,
   that factor should be taken into account. Moreover, in making larger
   contributions, non-federal parties reduce the amount of federal funds
   that must be spent on a project and free authorized bonds for other
   needed projects. As such, state contributions above the 20 percent
   minimum should receive preference in project approval by the Secretary.
   3. S. 250 changes existing law to permit states to issue tax-exempt
   bonds for high-speed rail projects that operate "in excess of 90 mph"
   (the current 150-mph requirement would be eliminated along with the
   state volume cap for these tax-exempt bonds). The expansion of the
   states' authority to issue tax-exempt bonds for rail passenger
   transportation projects is a step in the right direction. The states
   (with federal assistance) should have the primary role in selecting,
   developing and financing rail transportation projects that will serve
   their populations. Moreover, the costs of developing existing and
   future rail corridors is enormous, and innovative financing mechanisms
   such as tax exempt state bonds can go a long way in meeting those
   financing requirements. 4. The proposed bonds provide considerable
   funding to Amtrak and specific rail corridors without addressing
   Amtrak's fundamental institutional problems. 12 5. The $12 billion in
   bonding authority provided by the bills bears no relation to, and is
   insufficient to fund, the estimated capital costs of improving and
   developing the NEC and other FDHSRCs over the next 20 years.10 6. The
   role of project selection and oversight properly belongs to a
   government agency, not Amtrak. * States will be competing for bond
   money. It is essential that states receive fair and impartial
   treatment. * Project oversight should be under the direction of the
   Department of Transportation, including the independent assessment of
   the benefits and costs of qualified projects financed by the bonds. *
   There should be clear guidelines, perhaps along the lines of the
   Federal Transit Administration's (FTA) guidelines, for the selection
   and implementation of projects that are part of the "new starts"
   program. The FTA process, among other things, ensures that selected
   projects will be seen through to completion. Under the current Amtrak
   bond legislation, there is no assurance that any individual project
   will be able to secure sufficient funds to carry a project to
   completion. What happens to these projects when the bond money runs
   out? This concern is increased under the provisions of H.R. 2329 that
   effectively commingle bond proceeds in the escrow account and allow
   Amtrak to draw on bond funds intended for a specific project for use in
   other projects; it is also increased by Amtrak's ability to temporarily
   borrow funds under the Senate bill (and, unless explicitly precluded,
   under the House bill). 7. There is perhaps a better and simpler
   alternative to Amtrak issuing the bonds. The states (or entities of the
   states) and the private railroads should issue the bonds with 30 to 35
   percent of bond principal put up initially and deposited in defeasance
   escrow accounts so that such funds with interest will be adequate to
   fully redeem the bonds in 20 years (and thus arguably not require any
   Amtrak or state guarantees). To eliminate all financial risk of having
   adequate funds for bond redemption, the U.S. Treasury Department could
   issue "zero coupon" debt which would be priced to exactly equal the par
   value of the high-speed rail investment act bonds on the redemption
   dates of the rail bonds, and which would be purchased by the
   Independent Trustee to repay the principal. Other alternative bond
   mechanisms may be simpler and better than the S. 250 proposal (e.g.,
   tax- exempt state bonds with matching funds put in an escrow account to
   repay the bonds upon maturity). 8. Neither S.250 nor H.R. 2329
   specifically provides for necessary funding of life/safety improvements
   in Penn Station, N.Y. through the Amtrak bond mechanism; at minimum
   there should be a special provision to insure the funding of these
   essential safety improvements (estimated cost $900 million) above the
   $3 billion total cap for the Northeast Corridor.11 9. The provision in
   H.R. 2329 providing for Amtrak's issuance of bonds on behalf of other
   intercity rail passenger carriers and pursuant to agreement with Amtrak
   puts Amtrak in the role of a 10 Amtrak's FY01-05 Capital Plan estimated
   this figure as high as $100 billion. The GAO Report used a range of
   $50-$70 billion (presumably assuming that certain proposed projects
   would not be undertaken) but noted that there is currently no reliable
   estimate available of the capital needs to improve and develop the
   corridors. See GAO Report at 3, 20. 11 See, e.g., December 18, 2000
   Report prepared by the U.S. Department of Transportation, Office of
   Inspector General, in response to a request by Rep. Wolf for an update
   and review of the life-safety problems in Penn Station. 13 government
   agency and empowers Amtrak to veto projects of which they are not the
   operating carrier beneficiary. Moreover, the provision bolsters
   Amtrak's de facto monopoly over intercity passenger train operations
   and appears unlikely to be used. Should these bonds not pass, it is
   likely that other ways could be found to finance high-speed rail,
   including the federally-designated high-speed rail corridors. Such
   proposals might best be developed from a well-considered effort by
   experts in transportation policy and finance to determine a modern
   Intermodal Surface Transportation Policy and an accompanying array of
   financing mechanisms to fund improvements in intercity passenger rail
   infrastructure and equipment. The Council will be ready to participate
   in any such discussion and debate about how to best do the job. 14
