http://www.opa.ca.gov

   California Home
   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree


             Governor Gray Davis
   Agency Secretary, Maria Contreras-Sweet

             Patient Advocate Home
   About the Office
   About the Patient Advocate
   A Message from the Patient Advocate
   State of California HMO Report Card
   Tips on Exercising Your HMO Rights
   HMO Terms Explained
   Mobile Information Center
   Schedule a Meeting or Speaking Engagement
   Events and Event Calendar
   Photo Gallery


         Contact Us
   Customer Service Survey
   Help with PDF
   Conditions of Use
   Privacy Policy

   The Patient Advocate Logo


                             A Voice for You
                                             __________   Search
                                             ( ) My CA     (*) This Site

                             Office of the Patient Advocate
   Martin Gallegos, D.C.
      Patient Advocate, Martin Gallegos

      As the Patient Advocate, it is my job to take the steps necessary to
      inform and assist consumers who are enrolled in a Health Maintenance
      Organization (HMO). I would like you, as an enrollee, to learn about
      your rights and responsibilities as an HMO health plan member. Also, I
      would like you to learn how to best exercise your health care rights to
      ensure that you receive the health care to which you are entitled under
      California law.

      The inspired leadership of Governor Gray Davis, California legislators,
      consumer advocates, and many other committed individuals has assured
      that the health care of Californians' is protected. Many laws have been
      written to ensure patients' health care rights. It is for this reason
      that, as the Patient Advocate, I call upon all HMO plan enrollees to
      help in our efforts to protect your health care rights and the rights
      of your loved ones. In order for us to best assist you, you need to be
      aware of your health care rights under the law. You must become an
      active participant in obtaining the health care you deserve.


                  Martin Gallegos, D.C.
   Director/Patient Advocate
   320 W 4th Street, Suite 880
   Los Angeles, CA 90013-2347
   (213) 897-0579             980 9th Street, Suite 500
                              Sacramento, CA 95814
                              (916) 324-6407

   What's New
   Get Help with Your HMO
   Have a Problem With Your HMO? Get Help
   The Department of Managed Health Care's HMO Help Center can help you
   resolve problems that you are having with your health plan, including
   issues about medical care, prescriptions, preventive testing and mental
   health services.
   The Seal of the State of California California Highway Patrol statewide
   address on biological threat safety
   Flex Your Power Logo California's Energy Challenge - Be Energy
   Efficient
   "California continues to experience electrical shortages and rolling
   blackouts. To reduce the risk of power outages, the most important
   thing you can do is reduce your demand for electricity and use energy
   more efficiently."
   © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
   Privacy Policy
