http://www1.usatrade.gov/Website/website.nsf/WebBySubj/Main_SpecialInitiatives

   Export.gov Logo

                  U. S. Commercial Service
                  About Special Initiatives

                             Find Int'l Partners

                               Market Research

                                Trade Events

                           Consulting and Advocacy

                               Trade Resources


      U.S. Commercial Service Logo

    Quick Reference
    About Us
    Employment
    Press Room
    Special Initiatives
    Contact Us
    BuyUSA Sites

   Find an Office Near You: _____ [BUTTON Input] (not implemented)__
   Enter Zip Code
   Logo for the E-Marketplace: BuyUSA

   The Presidents E Award
   The President's "E" Award was created by Executive Order of the
   President on December 5, 1961, to afford suitable recognition to
   persons, firms, or organizations which contribute significantly in the
   effort to increase United States exports.
   The President's "E Star" Award, which was authorized by the Secretary
   of Commerce on August 4, 1969, affords continuing recognition of
   noteworthy export promotion efforts.
   District Export Councils
   District Export Councils (DECs) are organizations of leaders from the
   local business community, appointed by successive Secretaries of
   Commerce, whose knowledge of international business provides a source
   of professional advice for local firms.
   Women In Trade
   The Women in International Trade Initiative works to meet the needs of
   women in international trade. This is accomplished through trade
   missions, seminars, and information sharing on export processes and
   resources.
   Global Diversity Initiative
   The Global Diversity Initiative (GDI) works to expand the capability
   and number of minority firms participating in international trade. This
   is accomplished through Market Entry Programs, partnership development,
   trade events, and e-services.
   Showcase Europe (SCE)
   Showcase Europe is a regional program representing all Commercial
   Services Offices of the United States located in Europe. Our goal is to
   increase the export of U.S. goods and services.
   Rural Export Initiative
   The Rural Export Initiative (REI) provides companies in rural areas
   with better access to export assistance and global market research, by
   facilitating their access to international trade services and
   increasing the number of companies in rural areas engaged in exporting.

                        Privacy Statement | Site Map
      BuyUSA | International Trade Administration | U.S. Department of
                                  Commerce
