http://www.placer.ca.gov/policies/privacy-statement.htm


         Air Pollution Control District
            Clean Air Funding Grants

                                       Search Site __________ submit


   Snow blankets Lake Tahoe Placer County, California -- where everyone
   would like to live A wonderful area to ...
       • Visit and play
         • Live and raise a family
           • Locate a business


        About Our
        County   Departments  Board of
                             Supervisors  Economic
                                         Development  County
                                                     Services How to
                                                              Find?

                              Privacy Statement

                                    Line

   Thank you for visiting the Placer County Web site. The county
   recognizes the public's concern about privacy on the Internet and the
   Web. This privacy statement describes how information will be gathered
   about you from your visit to our site and how it will be used by the
   county's Web site's operators. As a Web site visitor, you should be
   aware that much information submitted to Placer County is public
   information under the laws of the State of California. Under some
   circumstances, we may be required to disclose such information upon
   request, in accordance with the California Public Records Act or in
   response to other legal requirements.

   The county will make every effort to protect personal or business
   information you choose to provide on our Web site in the same way it
   protects personal and business information provided through other
   methods.

   This privacy statement is provided for informational purposes only. It
   is not meant to be a contract of any type. Placer County may change its
   privacy statement at any time, without prior notice.

   On This Site || Additional Privacy Information || Third-Party Links ||
                                Site Security
                           Disclaimer || Glossary

Information Collection on this Web Site

     If you read or download information:

     If you only browse through the Web site, read pages, or download
     information, the county Web site computer will gather and store
     certain information about your visit automatically. (This is a
     routine function of Web site computers.) We may store a "cookie" on
     your computer. (A cookie is a tiny element of data that a Web site
     computer can send to your browser. It is stored on your PC.) The
     information in this cookie is used only to identify your computer to
     our Web site, as we gather information to evaluate how users make
     use of the site so we may improve it. This information does not
     identify you personally. We automatically collect and store only the
     following information about your visit:
     * The Internet domain and IP address for the computer you use when
       visiting our Web site (for example, "xcompany.com" if you use a
       private Internet access account, or "yourschool.edu" if you connect
       from a university's domain);
     * The type of Web browser (e.g. Internet Explorer, Netscape) and
       computer operating system (e.g. Windows, Mac) used to access our
       site ;
     * Whether or not you've visited the county Web site before, and how
       long you stay;
     * The date and time you visit the site;
     * The pages you visit; and
     * If you linked to the county Web site from another site, the address
       of that site.

     We use this information to help us make our site more useful to
     visitors -- to fix problems, and to learn about the number of
     visitors to our site and the types of technology visitors use. We do
     not track or record information about individuals, except as
     described below.

     If you send email to a Placer County email address:

     By sending us an electronic mail message, you may be sending
     personal information (i.e., your name, address, email address,
     etc.). We may store your name and address, and may share your email
     with various county staff, to address your problem or concern or to
     answer your question. In addition, Placer County may be required to
     provide this information in response to a California Public Records
     Act request or a court order.

     Email is not necessarily secure and can be intercepted. Placer
     County has arrangements with some third parties for online payments
     of some county fees. Always use those secure methods to pay any
     fees, fines or to make other county payments online.

     If you use an interactive application:

     If you are filling out a form on the County Web site or using one of
     our online services, we may store a "cookie" on your computer. (A
     cookie is a tiny element of data that a Web site can send to your
     browser. It is stored on your PC.) The information in this cookie is
     used only to identify you to our online service or application, to
     make it easier for you to use this site.

     If you register with a county department or agency or request other
     specific information:

     As the county adds online services, a county department or related
     agency may ask visitors who request specific information or a
     service to fill out a registration form or establish a user ID and
     password. For example, when the county Procurement Division adds an
     online bidding system, vendors requesting access to that service
     will be asked to provide their names, addresses, email addresses and
     other pertinent information so Procurement staff can process and
     deliver the information requested.

     Other information may be collected on the county Web site through
     questionnaires, feedback forms or other means, such as cookies, to
     allow us to determine Web site visitors' interests so we can improve
     site design or service.

Privacy Statements for County Department, Division or Other Agency Web Areas

     This privacy statement describes the information-gathering practices
     and procedures of the Placer County Web site in general. However,
     our site contains many departmental and agency Web page areas, to
     provide a comprehensive and convenient information and service
     resource for Placer County residents. For this reason, department or
     agency Web areas within the Placer County Web site may have posted
     additional specific information concerning their own department or
     agency Web information-gathering practices, requirements, or
     policies.

Links to Non-County (Third Party) Web Sites

     This Web site contains links to information located on sites
     maintained by other public agencies and private organizations. Once
     you use a link to another agency, organization or company Web site,
     Placer County privacy standards no longer apply and you are subject
     to the privacy policy of that Web site.

Placer County Disclaimer of Liability

Web Site Security

     For Web site security purposes and to be sure the county Web site
     remains available to all users, this site uses software programs to
     monitor Internet network traffic to identify unauthorized attempts
     to upload or change information, or otherwise cause damage.
     Unauthorized attempts to upload information, change information, or
     cause damage on this Web site are prohibited and may be prosecuted
     and punished under current state and federal laws prohibiting
     activity of that nature.

Glossary

     Here are links to definitions for terms used in this privacy
     statement, for your convenience.
     * IP Address
     * Domain
     * Cookie

   Updated 1/16/02.

                                    Line

   Home | Search | About County | Depts | Board | Econ Develop | Services
                                | Find Info.?

                          Placer County, California
                          Telephone (530) 889-4000
     Contact Placer County || Disclaimer || Privacy Statement || Espanol


   Copyright © 1997-2002, Placer County, California. All rights reserved.
   Photos and text remain the property of their respective owners. Site
   updated 1/29/02
