http://www.nysd.uscourts.gov/gre-rpt.htm


               Report of the Southern District of New York On
                 Implementation of Second Circuit Task Force
                Report on Gender, Racial and Ethnic Fairness


             For many years the Southern District has had a Committee on
   Equal Opportunity. The committee is now constituted of Judge Harold
   Baer, Jr., Chair, and Judges Naomi Reice Buchwald, Miriam Goldman
   Cedarbaum, Charles S. Haight, Jr., Robert P. Patterson, Jr. and Shira
   A. Scheindlin, as well as Magistrate Judge Kevin N. Fox. District
   Executive Clifford P. Kirsch is also a member. The Chief Judge is a
   member ex officio. The current Committee's main charge has been to
   review the concerns enunciated in the Second Circuit Task Force Report
   on Gender, Racial and Ethnic Fairness and to implement the
   recommendations of the Circuit Implementation Committee.

                                     I.

             The laws forbidding discrimination on the basis of race,
   ethnicity and gender have been in effect for many years. Moreover, New
   York City is a place of great diversity. Consequently, it is not
   surprising that the Task Force Report contained no findings that the
   Southern District has any practices of actual gender, racial or ethnic
   discrimination. However, the Task Force Report did indicate problems of
   perception. For instance, there is some degree of perception by female
   and minority attorneys that they occasionally receive treatment that is
   directed to them because of their gender, race or ethnicity. While this
   may largely be the result of misunderstanding, the perception is there
   and cannot be ignored.

             The Equal Opportunity Committee has arranged to have two
   educational programs for court staff members. These were carried out
   with the cooperation of the Federal Judicial Center. They were
   conducted by Martha G. Miller, who has given successful programs of
   this kind to various groups. The first session in our court was last
   August, and the second this March. They were both well attended and
   well received.

             The Committee is now working to determine the best way to
   bring the problems of perception to the attention of the judges and
   magistrate judges, and to enlist their thought and effort in dealing
   with such issues.

                                     II.

             One point noted in the Second Circuit Task Force Report was
   that the courts in the circuit lack procedures to receive complaints
   from attorneys and other members of the public about discriminatory or
   biased conduct by court personnel. The Report recommends that each
   court adopt such procedures and publicize them.

             The Southern District has, of course, an Employment Dispute
   Resolution Plan. However, this applies to employees and applicants for
   employment. In order to deal with complaints by the public, the
   Committee has concluded that the main step to carry out is to provide
   reasonable notice to the public regarding the court officer to whom
   such complaints may be addressed. Consequently, the Directory near the
   main entrance to the 500 Pearl Street Courthouse lists the District
   Executive in this capacity. Also, notices are being placed in the
   Clerk's Office and the Jury Assembly Room, advising that anyone who
   believes that he or she has been treated improperly due to bias or for
   any other reason should communicate with the District Executive.

                                    III.

             Another area of concern has been diversification of
   appointments. An essential device in this regard is making sure that
   notice of job opportunities is given wide circulation. Attention is
   being given to placing notices in publications which are likely to
   reach minority groups. Also, additional organizations have been
   included in the list to which notices are being mailed. Where job
   openings would be of interest to lawyers, notices are being given to
   the presidents of each of the constituent associations which together
   form the Network of Bar Leaders. The Network, while it includes the
   Association of the Bar and the five county bar associations, is
   primarily composed of some 35 specialized bars, mostly minority and
   women's associations.

             A major area for appointments relates to bankruptcy trustees.
   The District Court has no direct appointing power, since the U.S.
   Trustee, who is designated by the Department of Justice, has the
   responsibility to make most of the trustee appointments. However,
   education is important, and the Equal Opportunity Committee has met
   with the U.S. Trustee and the Chief Bankruptcy Judge, who both
   indicated an awareness of the desirability of more appointments to
   women and minorities. The meeting undoubtedly served to emphasize the
   point.

             For some time there has been a complaint from various
   quarters about the lack of diversity in the rank of security officers
   serving the court. With the cooperation of the Chair of the Security
   Committee, there has been a discussion with those in charge of hiring
   security officers regarding the desirability of diversifying. This has
   led to the recruitment of some female, African-American and Hispanic
   officers. The trends in hiring will be monitored.

                                     IV.

             There has long been a problem regarding the lack of women and
   minority lawyers on the Criminal Justice Act panel. The Defenders'
   Services Committee has had this question under advisement for many
   years. The Committee has recently met with the Lawyers Review
   Committee, the body which recommends to the court lawyers for the CJA
   panel. There was consideration of imposing term limits to members of
   the panel in order to create openings. This proposal was not viewed
   favorably, because of the danger of arbitrarily removing attorneys who
   were needed to perform services of the proper quality to indigent
   defendants in criminal cases. However, the Defenders' Services
   Committee of the court and the Review Committee have resolved that the
   Review Committee will engage in a more intensive review of all
   applications for renewal of terms on the CJA panel, and it is believed
   that this heightened review process may well create more openings and
   allow more diversity.


   Home
