http://quest.arc.nasa.gov/space/teachers/microgravity/MGprim.html

   Header Bar Graphic

   Space Image and Icon Space Header Kids Image

     Spacer Space Icon Homepage Button What is NASA Quest Button Spacer
   Calendar of Events Button What is an Event Button How do I Participate
    Button Spacer Bios and Journals Button Spacer Pics, Flicks and Facts
       Button Archived Events Button Q and A Button News Button Spacer
                     Educators and Parents Button Spacer
                              Highlight Graphic
                 Sitemap Button Search Button Contact Button

                         Microgravity Science Primer

                                  CONTENTS
             The Microgravity Environment of Orbiting Spacecraft
                                Biotechnology
                           Protein Crystal Growth
                      Mammalian Cell and Tissue Culture
                          Fundamental Biotechnology

   We experience many manifestations of gravity on a day to day basis. If
     we drop something, it falls toward Earth. If we release a rock in a
   container of water, the rock settles to the bottom of the container. We
     experience other effects of gravity regularly, although we may not
                     think of gravity as playing a role.

    Consider what happens when a container of water is heated from below.
       As the water on the bottom is heated by conduction through the
      container, it becomes less dense than the unheated, cooler water.
   Because of gravity, the cooler, more dense water sinks to the bottom of
   the container and the heated water rises to the top due to buoyancy. A
      circulation pattern is produced that mixes the hot water with the
   colder water. This is an example of buoyancy driven (or gravity driven)
    convection. The convection causes the water to be heated more quickly
    and uniformly than if it were heated by conduction alone. This is the
   same density driven convection process to which we refer when we state
                   matter-of-factly that "hot air rises."

     In addition to mixing, density differences can also cause things to
    differentially settle through a process called sedimentation. In this
   process, the more dense components of mixtures of immiscible fluids or
    solid particles in fluids settle to the bottom of a container due to
     gravity. If you fill a bucket with very wet mud, and then leave the
    bucket sitting on the ground, over time the more dense soil particles
    will sink to the bottom of the bucket due to gravity, leaving a layer
    of water on top. When you pick up a bottle of Italian salad dressing
    from the grocery store shelf, you see several different layers in the
   bottle. The dense solids have settled to the bottom, the vinegar forms
             a middle layer, and the least dense oil is on top.

   Gravity can also mask some phenomena that scientists wish to study. An
   example is the process of diffusion. Diffusion is the intermingling of
     solids, liquids, and gases due to differences in composition. Such
    intermingling occurs in many situations, but diffusion effects can be
    easily hidden by stronger convective mixing. As an example, imagine a
    large room in which all air circulation systems are turned off and in
   which a group of women are spaced ten feet apart standing in a line. If
   an open container of ammonia were placed in front of the first woman in
    line and each woman raised her hand when she smelled the ammonia, it
     would take a considerable amount of time before everyone raised her
    hand. Also, the hand raising would occur sequentially along the line
    from closest to the ammonia to furthest from the ammonia. If the same
    experiment were performed with a fan circulating air in the room, the
     hands would be raised more quickly, and not necessarily in the same
    order. In the latter case, mixing of the ammonia gas with the air in
   the room is due to both diffusion and convection (forced convection due
      to the fan) and the effects of the two processes cannot be easily
     separated. In a similar manner, buoyancy driven convection can mask
          diffusive mixing of components in scientific experiments.

    Some behavior of liquids can also be masked by gravity. If you pour a
   liquid into a container on Earth, the liquid conforms to the bottom of
    the container due to gravity. Depending on the shape of the container
     and on the properties of the container and the liquid, some of the
    liquid may creep up the walls or become depressed along the walls due
    to the interrelated phenomena of surface tension, adhesion, cohesion,
   and capillarity. The resulting curved surface may be familiar to anyone
    who has measured water in a small diameter glass container (the water
        cups upward) or has looked at the level of mercury in a glass
   thermometer (the mercury cups downward). The distance the contact line
     between the liquid and the container moves up or down the container
                        wall is affected by gravity.

    Experiments performed on Earth often take advantage of the effects of
   gravity discussed. For many experiments, however, these effects tend to
      make the execution of experiments or the analysis of experimental
      results difficult and sometimes even impossible. Therefore, many
      researchers design experiments to be performed under microgravity
   conditions. The different scientific research areas that are studied in
   microgravity include biotechnology, combustion science, fluid physics,
     fundamental physics, and materials science. Each of these areas, or
   disciplines, is discussed below. The discipline is defined, some of the
         specific effects of gravity that illustrate the benefits of
      microgravity research are discussed, and some examples of current
       research are presented. In addition, a brief discussion of the
    microgravity environment of orbiting spacecraft is provided as is an
       introduction to the application of microgravity research to the
                    exploration and development of space.
             The Microgravity Environment of Orbiting Spacecraft

     While freefall reduces the effects of gravity, being in an orbiting
    laboratory introduces other accelerations that cause effects that are
    indistinguishable from those due to gravity. When a spacecraft is in
    orbit around Earth, the orbit is actually defined by the path of the
   center of mass of the spacecraft around the center of Earth. Any object
   in a location other than on the line traversed by the center of mass of
    the spacecraft is actually in a different orbit around Earth. Because
    of this, all objects not attached to the spacecraft move relative to
      the orbiter center of mass. Other relative motions of unattached
    objects are related to aerodynamic drag on the vehicle and spacecraft
    rotations. A spacecraft in low-Earth orbit experiences some amount of
     drag due to interactions with the atmosphere. An object within the
    vehicle, however, is protected from the atmosphere by the spacecraft
    itself and does not experience the same deceleration that the vehicle
   does. The floating object and spacecraft therefore are moving relative
     to each other. Similarly, rotation of the spacecraft due to orbital
   motion causes a force to act on objects fixed to the vehicle but not on
    objects freely floating within it. On average for the Space Shuttles,
    the quasi-steady accelerations, resulting from the sources discussed
      above (position in the spacecraft, aerodynamic drag, and vehicle
     rotation) are on the order of 1x10 ^-6 g, but vary with time due to
    variations in the atmospheric density around Earth and due to changes
                           in Shuttle orientation.

     In addition to these quasi-steady accelerations, many operations on
   spacecraft cause vibrations of the vehicle and the payloads (experiment
   apparatus). These vibrations are often referred to as g-jitter because
        their effects are similar to those that would be caused by a
    time-varying gravitational field. Typical sources for vibrations are
    experiment and spacecraft fans and pumps, motion of centrifuges, and
        thruster firings. With a crew onboard to conduct experiments,
           additional vibrations can result from crew activities.

   The combined acceleration levels that result from the quasi-steady and
    vibratory contributions are generally referred to as the microgravity
     environment of the spacecraft. On the Space Shuttles, the types of
        vibration-causing operations discussed above tend to create a
     cumulative background microgravity environment of about 1x10^ -4 g,
         considering contributions for all frequencies below 250 Hz.

                       Biotechnology Protein Crystals

      Biotechnology is an applied biological science that involves the
     research, manipulation, and manufacturing of biological molecules,
    tissues, and living organisms. With a critical and expanding role in
     health, agriculture, and environmental protection, biotechnology is
    expected to have a significant impact on our economy and our lives in
     the next century. Microgravity research focuses on three principal
    area--protein crystal growth, mammalian cell and tissue culture, and
                         fundamental biotechnology.

   Gravity significantly influences attempts to grow protein crystals and
   mammalian cell tissue on Earth. Initial research indicates that protein
        crystals grown in microgravity can yield substantially better
     structural information than can be obtained from crystals grown on
       Earth. Proteins consist of thousand--or in the case of viruses,
     millions--of atoms, which are weakly bound together, forming large
   molecules. On Earth, buoyancy-induced convection and sedimentation may
    inhibit crystal growth. In microgravity, convection and sedimentation
    are significantly reduced, allowing for the creation of structurally
                         better and larger crystals.

   The absence of sedimentation means that protein crystals do not sink to
   the bottom of their growth container as they do on Earth. Consequently,
   they are not as likely to be affected by other crystals growing in the
       solution. Because convective flows are also greatly reduced in
   microgravity, crystals grow in a much more quiescent environment, which
     may be responsible for the improved structural order of space-grown
   crystals. Knowledge gained from studying the process of protein crystal
   growth under microgravity conditions will have implications for protein
                    crystal growth experiments on Earth.

   Research also shows that mammalian cells--particularly normal cell--are
      sensitive to conditions found in ground-based facilities used to
     culture (grow) them. Fluid flows caused by gravity can separate the
   cells from each other, severely limiting the number of cells that will
       aggregate (come and stay together). But tissue samples grown in
     microgravity are much larger and more representative of the way in
       which tissues are actually produced inside the human body. This
      suggests that better control of the stresses exerted on cells and
   tissues can play an important role in their culture. These stresses are
                      greatly reduced in microgravity.

                           Protein Crystal Growth


     Crystallized protein lysozome The human body contains over 100,000
   different proteins. These proteins play important roles in the everyday
   functions of the body, such as the transport of oxygen and chemicals in
    the blood, the formation of the major components of muscle and skin,
   and the fighting of disease. Researchers in this area seek to determine
       the structures of these proteins, to understand how a protein's
     structure affects its function, and ultimately to design drugs that
   intercede in protein activities (penicillin is a well-known example of
      a drug that works by blocking a protein's function). Determining
   protein structure is the key to the design and development of effective
                                   drugs.
   3 types of protein crystals

   The main purpose in growing protein crystals is to advance our
   knowledge of biological molecular structures. Researchers can use
   microgravity to help overcome a significant stumbling block in the
   determination of molecular structures: the difficulty of growing
   crystals suitable for structural analysis. Scientists use X-ray
   diffraction to determine the three-dimensional molecular structure of a
   protein. They can calculate the location of the atoms that make up the
   protein based on the intensity and position of the spots formed by the
   diffracted X-rays. From high resolution diffraction data, scientists
   can describe a protein's structure on a molecular scale and determine
   the parts of the protein that are important to its functions. Using
   computer analysis, scientists can create and manipulate
   three-dimensional models of the protein and examine the intricacies of
   its structure to create a drug that "fits" into a protein's active
   site, like inserting a key into a lock to "turn off" the protein's
   function. But X-ray diffraction requires large, homogeneous crystals
   (about the size of a grain of table salt) for analysis. Unfortunately,
   crystals grown in Earth's gravity often have internal defects that make
   analysis by X-ray diffraction difficult or impossible. Space Shuttle
   missions have shown that crystals of some proteins (and other complex
   biological molecules such as viruses) grown on orbit are larger and
   have fewer defects than those grown on Earth. The improved data from
   the space-grown crystals significantly enhance scientists'
   understanding of the protein's structure and this information can be
   used to support structure-based drug design.

   Scientists strive for a better understanding of the fundamental
   mechanisms by which proteins form crystals. A central goal of
   microgravity protein crystal growth experiments is to determine the
   basic science that controls how proteins interact and order themselves
   during the process of crystallization. To accomplish this goal, NASA
   has brought together scientists from the protein crystallography
   community, traditional crystal growers, and other physical scientists
   to form a multidisciplinary team in order to address the problems in a
   comprehensive manner.

   Mammalian Cell and Tissue Culture

   Bioreactor

   Mammalian cell tissue culturing is a major area of research for the
   biotechnology community. Tissue culturing is one of the basic tools of
   medical research and is key to developing future medical technologies
   such as ex vivo (outside of the body) therapy design and tissue
   transplantation. To date, medical science has been unable to fully
   culture human tissue to the mature states of differentiation found in
   the body.

   The study of normal and cancerous mammalian tissue growth holds
   enormous promise for applications in medicine. However, conventional
   static tissue culture methods form flat sheets of growing cells (due to
   their settling on the bottom of the container) that differ in
   appearance and function from their three-dimensional counterparts
   growing in a living body. In an effort to enhance three-dimensional
   tissue formation, scientists have developed a ground-based facility for
   cell and tissue culture called a bioreactor. This instrument cultures
   cells in a slowly rotating horizontal cylinder, which produces lower
   stress levels on the growing cells than previous Earth-based
   experimental environments. The continuous rotation of the cylinder
   allows the sample to escape much of the influence of gravity, but
   because the bioreactor environment tends to be rather passive, it is
   sometimes difficult for the growing tissue to find the fresh media
   (food supply) it needs to survive.

   Another reason normal mammalian cells are sensitive to growth
   conditions found in standard bioreactors is that fluid flow causes
   shear forces that discourage cell aggregation. This limits both the
   development of the tissue and the degree to which it possesses
   structures and functions similar to those found in the human body.
   Tissue cultures of the size that can be grown in these bioreactors
   allow tests of new treatments on cultures grown from cells from the
   patient rather than on patients themselves. In the future, this
   technology will enable quicker, more thorough testing of larger numbers
   of drugs and treatments. Ultimately, the bioreactor is expected to
   produce even better results when used in a microgravity environment.

   In cooperation with the medical community, the bioreactor design is
   being used to prepare better models of human colon, prostate, breast,
   and ovarian tumors. Cells grown in conventional culture systems may not
   differentiate to form a tumor typical of cancer. In the bioreactor,
   however, these tumors grow into specimens that resemble the original
   tumor. Similar results have been observed with normal human tissues as
   well. Cartilage, bone marrow, heart muscle, skeletal muscle, pancreatic
   islet cells, liver cells, and kidney cells are examples of the normal
   tissues currently being grown in rotating bioreactors by investigators.
   In addition, laboratory models of heart and kidney diseases, as well as
   viral infections (including Norwalk virus and Human Immunodeficiency
   Virus (HIV)) are currently being developed using a modified NASA
   bioreactor experiment design with slight variations in experimental
   technique and some adjustments to hardware. Continued use of the
   bioreactor can improve our knowledge of normal and cancerous tissue
   development. NASA is beginning to explore the possibility of culturing
   tissues in microgravity, where even greater reduction in stresses on
   growing tissue samples may allow much larger tissue masses to develop.
   A bioreactor is in use on the Russian Space Station Mir in preparation
   for the International Space Station.

   Fundamental Biotechnology

   Electrophoresis has been studied on a dozen Space Shuttle flights and
   has led to additional research in fluid physics in the area of
   electrohydrodynamics. Phase partitioning experiments, which use
   interfacial energy (the energy change associated with the contact
   between two different materials) as the means of separation, have flown
   on six missions.

                     Microgravity Home         Next Page

   Spacer

                            Footer Bar Graphic
   Spacer Space Icon Aerospace Icon Astrobiology Icon Women of NASA Icon
                                  Spacer
                                Footer Info
