http://dcp.psc.gov/SGMessage.pdf

   11 September 2001 To Commissioned Officers of the US Public Health
   Service: Earlier today, Secretary Tommy Thompson sent a communication
   to all employees of the Department of Health and Human Services,
   regarding the tragic incidents this morning in New York and Washington,
   DC. In it, he asked for the prayers of all those affected by the events
   of today. I share that terrible sense of loss, and express my heartfelt
   condolences to those who have lost a loved one in this horrible act.
   While allowing non-essential Departmental employees to leave early, the
   Secretary also requested that personnel with medical experience remain
   available for activation as needed. I want to communicate to all
   Commissioned Officers that the Office of the Surgeon General has been
   in regular communication with the Secretary regarding the safety of all
   of our staff, as well as the early mobilization of the Commissioned
   Corps Readiness Force (CCRF), which I authorized this morning. Because
   of the extensive nature of this emergency, the Secretary has also
   requested that all Commissioned Officers remain ready, reachable, and
   available to respond as needed. If you are a member of the CCRF, the
   Office of Emergency Preparedness will contact you through the
   information you have maintained with them. You do not need to contact
   OEP. Furthermore, each officer must ensure that his or her supervisor
   and the Division of Commissioned Personnel have current contact
   information for you. Each active duty officer shall immediately update
   his or her contact information in the DCP database, by logging on to
   the DCP website at http://dcp.psc.gov. Go to the Secure Area, Officer
   and Liaison Activities, and log in with your ID and password. Proceed
   to Update Contact Information, and verify the accuracy of the data,
   including home, work and cell phone numbers. If you do not have, or do
   not remember, your ID and password, e-mail your updated information to:
   dcp@list.psc.dhhs.gov. You must include your name, PHS serial number,
   duty status, e-mail address, and other contact data. Do not call this
   information in to DCP, but use one of the two methods described above.
   As officers are on duty twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week,
   each of us in the Commissioned Corps must be reachable and ready to
   respond if necessary. Please share this memorandum to all Corps
   officers in your program. Thank you for your dedication to the mission
   of the Department and commitment to the Commissioned Corps. David
   Satcher, M.D., Ph.D. Surgeon General
