http://www.fppc.ca.gov/pdf/advice.pdf

   How Do I Get Advice From the FPPC? A Basic Overview of Telephone and
   Written Advice Services Fair Political Practices Commission 428 J
   Street, Suite 620 Sacramento, CA 95814 Toll-free advice line: 1 (866)
   ASK-FPPC Web site: www.fppc.ca.gov Fair Political Practices Commission
   How Do I Get Advice From the FPPC? "I'm running for city council. What
   campaign reports do I need to file?" "My home is near the proposed
   park. Can I vote on the issue at next month's planning commission
   meeting?" "I was just appointed to a government commission. Do I need
   to disclose my personal financial interests?" Many of you in the public
   and political arenas may have faced similar questions. But where can
   you turn for advice? The Fair Political Practices Commission
   administers and enforces the Political Reform Act  the state law gov-
   erning campaign finances, lobbying, conflicts of interest, gift limits,
   and post-government employment restrictions. If you have a specific
   question about how the Political Reform Act applies to you, you should
   consult the Act, FPPC regulations and your legal counsel  and you can
   ask the FPPC for telephone or written advice. We answer thousands of
   calls for telephone advice monthly, issue hundreds of advice letters
   each year and host educational seminars around the state. The Act is
   found in California Government Code sec- tions 81000-91015. FPPC
   regulations are contained in Title 2, Division 6 of the California Code
   of Regulations. FPPC 1 (1/2002) A good idea - Call for toll-free advice
   at: 1-866-ASK-FPPC (1-866-275-3772) The FPPC web site, www.fppc.gov,
   offers the Act and regulations as well as fact sheets, forms, meeting
   agen- das, schedules of upcoming seminars and other helpful documents
   and publications. FPPC staff members con- duct training seminars
   throughout the state on such topics as campaign treasurer duties and
   conflicts of interest. The FPPC also offers a toll-free help number for
   those with obligations under the Political Reform Act  1-866- ASK-FPPC
   (1-866-275-3772). Generally, telephone advice is more appropriate for
   routine inquiries, while written advice or formal Commis- sion opinions
   are more suitable for complex inquiries and issues under the Political
   Reform Act. Seminars are in- tended to provide a general introduction
   and overview of your obligations, such as tips on how to fill out
   campaign disclosure forms. FPPC 2 (1/2002) Note: the FPPC has
   discontinued its fax-on-demand system. All materials that were
   available through fax-on- demand are now available on the FPPC's web
   site in a user-friendly, printable format. Who can ask for advice? A
   public official, candidate, lobbyist or other person who has duties or
   obligations under the Act (or his or her authorized representative) can
   ask the FPPC for tele- phone or written advice. Examples of authorized
   repre- sentatives include city attorneys, campaign treasurers, lawyers,
   and agency counsels. Examples of the types of questions frequently re-
   ceived by the FPPC include: ÿ "Can I vote on the mall expansion plan at
   next month's meeting?" ÿ "How do I report this contribution?" ÿ "What
   sender identification should I put on my cam- paign mailer?" No
   third-party advice If you are calling or writing to ask about someone
   else's actions, and you are not authorized to represent that person,
   the FPPC's Technical Assistance Division and Legal Division cannot give
   you advice about the re- quirements of the Act. For example, we would
   not be able to provide advice if your fellow planning commissioner
   voted for a project and you suspect he or she may have had a conflict
   of interest. If you think someone may have violated a provision of FPPC
   3 (1/2002) the Act, you may file a complaint with the Enforcement
   Division. The toll-free FPPC enforcement hot-line number is
   1-800-561-1861. See the FPPC fact sheet on filing a complaint and the
   FPPC brochure, "What Happens After I File A Complaint With The FPPC?"
   Both are available on the web site, www.fppc.ca.gov, or by calling
   toll-free 1- 866-ASK-FPPC. More details about FPPC telephone advice As
   far in advance of the ac- tion as possible, call the FPPC's toll-free
   help line (1-866- ASK-FPPC) and speak with one of the consultants in
   the Techni- cal Assistance Division. Consultants are available Mon- day
   through Friday (except holi- days) from 9:00 a.m. until noon and
   1:30-4:30 p.m. During ex- ceptionally busy periods, you may have to
   hold for an available consultant, or you can leave a message and a
   consultant will call you back. If you call after regular business
   hours, you can leave your name, phone number and the nature of your
   call, and a consultant will contact you the next business day. When
   will I get an answer? Most calls for telephone advice are answered on
   the same day. If you are calling during an exceptionally busy period -
   such as before a statement filing deadline or an election - or if the
   con- sultant needs to conduct research, a response to your call may
   take longer. If your question is factually complicated or presents a
   novel issue we have not advised on before, the consultant may not be
   able to give phone advice and FPPC 4 (1/2002) may ask you to request
   written advice instead. Does telephone advice provide immunity? No.
   Telephone advice can provide you with valuable guidance and answers to
   routinely asked questions under the Act. But telephone advice does not
   provide the caller with im- munity from prosecution under the Act. Only
   formal writ- ten advice confers limited statutory immunity on the re-
   questor (California Government Code section 83114). Does the Commission
   provide written confirma- tion of telephone advice? No. You have the
   choice of requesting telephone or written advice. If you choose tele-
   phone advice, the Commission will not provide written confirmation. May
   the FPPC decline to provide advice? If a ques- tion concerns past
   conduct, is purely hypothetical, is not related to the Act, presents
   vague facts, is too complex, or if the requestor is asking for
   anonymous advice, the Commission may decline to provide telephone or
   informal Call as far in advance of the action as possible - not after
   the fact! FPPC 5 (1/2002) written assistance. Or we may limit our
   assistance to a general explanation of the requirements of the Act
   (Reg. 18329(c)(4)). More details about FPPC written advice If you have
   a more complicated or non-routine ques- tion, or are seeking limited
   immunity, you may want to re- quest written advice from the FPPC. To
   request written advice, write a letter to: General Counsel Fair
   Political Practices Commission 428 J Street, Suite 620 Sacramento, CA
   95814 Your letter should include the following information: ÿ Your
   name, title or position, and mailing address. If you are requesting
   advice on behalf of someone other than yourself, the letter must
   specifically state that you are authorized to represent that person. ÿ
   The question. Clearly state the question(s) you want answered. ÿ The
   facts. Provide all of the material facts and infor- mation related to
   your question in a clear and concise manner. Summarize relevant parts
   of attachments and enclosures in the request. Some frequently asked
   questions about written advice include: What is the difference between
   "formal" and "informal" written advice? "Formal" written advice letters
   from the FPPC apply provisions of the Political Reform Act to very
   specific fac- tual situations involving particular public officials.
   FPPC 6 (1/2002) "Informal" written advice letters provide answers to
   gen- eral questions about the Act. Requests for written advice that
   seek general guidance and do not provide specific facts are treated as
   requests for informal written assis- tance. Formal written advice
   confers limited immunity on the requestor; informal written advice does
   not. Formal written advice is noted by the file prefix "A" in the FPPC
   file number of the letter, and informal written advice is noted by the
   prefix "I." When will I get an answer? The Act directs the Commission
   to respond to a re- quest for "formal" written advice within 21
   business days of receipt. If a staff member needs to contact you to get
   more facts to prepare the reply, or if your request poses a
   particularly complex legal question, the 21-day period may be extended.
   The 21-day deadline does not apply to "informal" written advice. What
   happens to a request for written advice once the FPPC receives it? Upon
   receiving your request, the Commission sends you a written
   acknowledgment that provides the name of the staff person who will
   prepare the response. Commis- FPPC 7 (1/2002) sion staff may contact
   you to request additional facts or information needed to answer your
   request. Outgoing ad- vice letters are reviewed and approved by a
   senior staff counsel, the General Counsel, or both. Once issued, are
   advice letters made public? Yes. The Commission publishes advice letter
   summa- ries in its Bulletin newsletter. We send copies of the ad- vice
   letters to the Attorney General, Secretary of State, the Franchise Tax
   Board and private parties who have paid subscriptions. The advice
   letters are published on Westlaw and Lexis and are made available to
   interested parties on request. Does written advice provide immunity?
   Formal written advice based upon accurate and com- plete facts provides
   immunity to the requestor from any enforcement action initiated by the
   Commission and is evidence of good faith in any other proceeding if the
   re- questor relies upon the advice in good faith (section 83114(b)).
   Formal written advice is not a declaration of policy by the Commission.
   It is the application of law to a particular set of facts. Though the
   advice may provide guidance to others, the immunity provided by formal
   writ- ten advice is limited to the requestor under the specific facts
   described in the letter. As discussed above, tele- phone advice and
   informal written advice do not confer immunity on the requestor. May a
   requestor ask for reconsideration of written ad- vice? Yes. The request
   for reconsideration should be made to the general counsel. If the
   requestor wishes the com- missioners to consider the matter, he or she
   should so state and the letter may be placed on the Commission's agenda
   for consideration. May the Commission decline to provide advice? The
   Commission may decline to provide formal written FPPC 8 (1/2002) advice
   if the requestor does not provide all of the material facts. The
   Commission may also decline to provide formal written advice if the
   request relates to past conduct, does not relate to the Act, is purely
   hypothetical, or presents issues requiring a policy interpretation best
   made through a Commission opinion or adoption of a regulation (Reg.
   18329(b)(8)). Tips for advice-seekers: ÿ Ask for advice before you act.
   FPPC staff members can provide you with phone or writ- ten advice about
   future con- duct only, not about actions already taken. Similarly,
   staff members do not provide ad- vice about matters in litigation or
   about which a complaint has been filed with the FPPC. ÿ Call or write
   as early as pos- sible in advance of your deadline. Our staff members
   make every effort to re- spond within your time frame. But some
   questions may raise complex issues that require research, so try to
   call or write as early as possible prior to the action in question. ÿ
   Describe the facts fully. To receive the most accu- rate advice
   possible, identify yourself and the official or entities involved,
   state a clear question, and pro- vide as many facts as possible.
   Examples include: For campaign reporting questions, identify the
   candidate, committee name and type, and de- scribe your activity in
   detail. FPPC 9 (1/2002) FPPC On Line www.fppc.ca.gov The FPPC, as part
   of its public education pro- gram, has expanded and upgraded its web
   site. The emphasis is not on flashy graphics but on providing users
   with a fully accessible site that provides the most complete,
   up-to-date information possible. The site includes, among other things:
   * Fact sheets outlining the rules concerning: cam- paign disclosure,
   lobbyists, conflicts of interest, and gift limitations * Updated
   information on Proposition 34 * Summaries of enforcement decisions *
   Downloadable forms and publications * The Political Reform Act * FPPC
   regulations, including newly adopted rules * Meeting agendas and
   summaries * Current and past issues of the FPPC Bulletin FPPC 10
   (1/2002) For questions relating to conflicts of interest, identify the
   public official involved, the govern- mental decision the official is
   making, and the official's economic interests (property, income, or
   gifts) that may cause a conflict of interest. ÿ We can't provide advice
   on hypothetical situa- tions. Ask for advice about a real transaction
   you plan to undertake or a specific decision coming before you. FPPC
   staff members cannot provide advice about speculative "what-if"
   scenarios. ÿ Check previous FPPC advice letters. We may have already
   answered a question similar to yours in a pre- vious advice letter. The
   Commission's advice letters are available on the legal research
   services Westlaw and Lexis. Commission Opinions The Commission,
   following a process outlined in its regulations, may issue formal
   opinions. Such opinions typically involve matters of significant public
   interest and substantial questions of interpretation of the Political
   Re- form Act. The procedure for requesting and issuing formal opin-
   ions is detailed in FPPC Regulations 18320-18326. Requesting an opinion
   Requests for formal opinions may be submitted to the Commission by any
   person whose duties under the Act are in question, or that person's
   authorized representa- tive. The procedure for requesting a formal
   opinion, and the Commission's procedure for granting or denying such
   requests, is outlined in Regulation 18320. FPPC 11 (1/2002) To request
   a formal opinion, write a letter to: Executive Director Fair Political
   Practices Commission 428 J Street, Suite 620 Sacramento, CA 95814 Try
   to state the question and all relevant facts as con- cisely as
   possible. The executive director determines whether to grant or deny
   opinion requests. A denial can be appealed by the person requesting the
   opinion. Requests for opinions received by the FPPC are pub- lic
   records and are open to public inspection. Public hearings held When
   the Commission has agreed to issue an opin- ion, a public hearing is
   held. The opinion requestor, inter- ested persons and members of the
   public are given an opportunity to provide both written and oral input
   before the opinion is adopted. The Commission adopts formal opinions at
   a public meeting. Before the meeting, a draft of the opinion is pro-
   vided to members of the Commission, the person re- questing the
   opinion, the state Attorney General, the Franchise Tax Board, the
   Secretary of State and other in- terested persons, and is made
   available to the public. Opinions published Opinions adopted by the
   Commission, along with any dissenting or concurring opinions by
   commissioners, are public and are published on Westlaw and Lexis. May
   the person requesting the opinion ask for a re- hearing? Yes. Within 14
   days after the adoption of a formal FPPC 12 (1/2002) opinion by the
   Commission, the person who submitted the opinion request, a
   commissioner or the executive di- rector may petition the Commission to
   grant a rehearing. The purposes of California's Political Reform Act
   are described in the initiative's preamble, including: "Receipts and
   expenditures in elec- tion campaigns should be fully and truth- fully
   disclosed in order that the voters may be fully informed and improper
   prac- tices may be inhibited." "The activities of lobbyists should be
   regulated and their finances disclosed in order that improper
   influences will not be directed at public officials." "Assets and
   income of public offi- cials which may be materially affected by their
   official actions should be disclosed and in appropriate circumstances
   the offi- cials should be disqualified from acting in order that
   conflicts of interest may be avoided." FPPC 13 (1/2002) How To Contact
   Us: By mail: Fair Political Practices Commission 428 J Street, Suite
   620 Sacramento, CA 95814 Internet: www.fppc.ca.gov By telephone:
   Toll-free advice line: 1-866-ASK-FPPC (1-866-275-3772) Regular line:
   1-916-322-5660 Enforcement hot line: 1-800-561-1861 California Fair
   Political Practices Commission
