http://www.nist.gov/public_affairs/general2.htm

   General Information, NIST, navigation links

                                     ""

      | Our Organization | Find a Specific NIST Program | What We Do |
           | Quotes, Speeches, Testimony | Impacts, FAQs, Links |

     From automated teller machines and atomic clocks to mammograms and
    semiconductors, innumerable products and services rely in some way on
      technology, measurements, and standards provided by the National
                   Institute of Standards and Technology.

     Founded in 1901, NIST is a non-regulatory federal agency within the
   U.S. Commerce Department's Technology Administration. NIST's mission is
      to develop and promote measurements, standards, and technology to
     enhance productivity, facilitate trade, and improve the quality of
      life. NIST carries out its mission in four cooperative programs:
     * the NIST Laboratories, conducting research that advances the
       nation's technology infrastructure and is needed by U.S. industry
       to continually improve products and services;
     * the Baldrige National Quality Program, which promotes performance
       excellence among U.S. manufacturers, service companies, educational
       institutions, and health care providers; conducts outreach programs
       and manages the annual Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award
       which recognizes performance excellence and quality achievement;
     * the Manufacturing Extension Partnership, a nationwide network of
       local centers offering technical and business assistance to small
       manufacturers; and
     * the Advanced Technology Program, which accelerates the development
       of innovative technologies for broad national benefit by co-funding
       R&D partnerships with the private sector.

   NIST has an operating budget of about $812 million and operates in two
      locations: Gaithersburg, Md., (headquarters-234-hectare/578-acre
    campus) and Boulder Colo., (84-hectare/208-acre campus). NIST employs
       about 3,000 scientists, engineers, technicians, and support and
   administrative personnel. About 1,600 guest researchers complement the
   staff. In addition, NIST partners with 2,000 manufacturing specialists
             and staff at affiliated centers around the country.

                              Our Organization

   Mission, Vision, Values          Employment Information
   Organizational Chart             NIST Tours
   NIST Boulder, Colo., home page

   Find a Specific NIST Program

   Learn How NIST Helps Various Industry Sectors Brief Descriptions of
   NIST's Major Programs
   Guide to NIST - short, technical descriptions of NIST projects Fact
   Sheets

   What We Do
   NIST in Your Community   NIST Centennial
   NIST in Your House       NIST Educational Activities
   NIST and Your City       For Kids
   NIST Photo Gallery

   Quotes, Speeches, Testimony
   What Others Say About NIST                    Speeches by NIST Officials
   Testimony by NIST/DOC officials to Congress

   Impacts, FAQs, Links
   Frequently Asked Questions NIST Impacts in Your State
   Links to Related Web Sites Freedom of Information Act procedures


   See also: NIST Programs, NIST Products and Services, Work With Us, A-Z
   Subject Index, NIST Home Page

   Date created: 11/2/01
   Last updated: 1/10/02
   Contact: inquiries@nist.gov
