http://d3d.fsl.noaa.gov/symposium/edszokepaper_forwebnew.html

Published (Paper J5.1) in the Interactive Symposium on AWIPS, Orlando, Florida,
             American Meteorological Society;   13-17 January 2002.



                    D3D: OVERVIEW, UPDATE, AND FUTURE PLANS

                                                                Ed
   Szoke^1,2   U. Herbert Grote, Paula T. McCaslin, and Philip A. McDonald

                                                                NOAA
   Forecast Systems Laboratory

                                                                Boulder,
   Colorado   80303



   ^1Corresponding Author address:
          Ed Szoke, 325 Broadway, R/E/FS1, Boulder, CO 80303.
          Email: szoke@fsl.noaa.gov


   ^2In collaboration with the Cooperative Institute for Research in the

         Atmosphere, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, Colorado





1. INTRODUCTION

   The NOAA Forecast Systems Laboratory (FSL) is tasked with evaluating
   and transferring potentially useful applications that may be present
   within the research community into operations. One such application
   that is currently being evaluated at FSL is a visualization tool from
   the University of Wisconsin known as Vis5D (Hibbard and Santek 1991).
   FSL has taken the Vis5D software package, with enthusiastic support
   from Bill Hibbard at the University of Wisconsin, and developed it into
   an application known as D3D (Display in three Dimensions), which could
   potentially add 3D visualization capabilities to National Weather
   Service (NWS) Weather Forecast Offices (WFOs). Vis5D and D3D can
   display 3-D grids of meteorological data using tools that include both
   3-D displays and interactive 2-D displays.

   This paper gives an overview of D3D, including a description of its
   components, history at FSL, present status in operations, and future
   plans. We are pleased that the interest in D3D has grown to the point
   that the Visualization Session at the Interactive Symposium on the
   Advanced Weather Interactive Processing System (AWIPS, Wakefield, 1998)
   will contain a number of papers discussing D3D. Most of the papers to
   follow in this session will discuss the use and initial impressions of
   D3D at some WFOs where it has been deployed. This paper serves as an
   introduction to the session.

2. OVERVIEW OF THE D3D TOOLS

   The Vis5D software package is really a collection of tools, some of
   which are true 3-D displays, while others are just 2-D displays that
   can be used in a highly interactive manner. A summary of the tools in
   D3D is given in Table 1, and most are illustrated in Fig. 1a-d. It must
   be noted that tools can easily be combined, and one is not restricted
   to just displaying one field or one cross section at a time. Full color
   illustrations of these tools, along with much more information on D3D,
   can be found on our homepage at http://d3d.fsl.noaa.gov/. Figure 1a
   shows an example of an isosurface of vorticity (a surface that encloses
   vorticity with values between 0 and 15 x 10-5s-1 ). The image is tilted
   to show the 3-D structure of the vorticity field as revealed by the
   isosurface. The data is from the Eta model's analysis field for the
   1200 UTC run on 26 September 2001, when a deep upper-level closed low
   was positioned over the Great Lakes, with another in the Gulf of
   Alaska. The isosurface is the basic 3-D tool that is quite different
   from anything the forecaster currently has available in D2D (AWIPS).
   Two of the D3D "2-D" type tools are also shown in Fig. 1a, the plan
   view and the cross section. The plan view is of 500 mb height contours
   at intervals of 30 dm, while the cross section shows both vorticity
   contours and an image of vorticity, linked together into one cross
   section that is aligned in a skewed direction to emphasize the
   flexibility in orientation.

   CAPTION:

Table 1: D3D tools

           Tool

                       Description

                                                      Example

   Isosurface

                       3D surface of a field

                                                      Fig. 1a

   Plan view

                       Horizontal 2-D display

                                                      Fig. 1a

   Cross-section

                       Vertical 2-D display

                                                      Fig. 1a

   Sounding

                       SkewT, hodograph, vertical plot

                                                      Fig. 1b

   Probe

                       Point display of data

                                                      none

   Trajectory

                       Forward/backward trajectories

                                                      Fig. 1c

   Volume Visualization

                       3D "fog" type display

                                                      Fig. 1d


   [mypaper_fig1a_new1.gif]

    Figure 1a. A combined D3D view showing an isosurface of vorticity, a
   plan view of 500 mb height, and a vertical cross section of vorticity
   displayed as both contours and as an image. The view is tilted to show
   structure in the isosurface and to view the cross section.

   Another 2-D tool that has been modified considerably by FSL is the
   Sounding tool, illustrated in Fig. 1b. The interactive part of this
   tool allows one to change the sounding location as desired with an
   instant update to the entire display. In addition, one can display any
   of the four components (SkewT, Vertical Plots, Hodograph, or
   Parameters) by themselves, or in any combination. The vertical plots
   option allows for display of any available field plotted against
   height, for up to three fields at once. The Probe tool (not shown)
   works like the sounding tool in that one can select any location for
   the probe, however, it simply displays the value of as many fields as
   desired for just a single point in space, rather than a vertical
   profile. While this limits the utility of the probe, there are some
   special applications where it may be of use, given the ability to
   impose certain restrictions on the probe location, such as fixing it to
   a specific height or pressure level in the vertical as its horizontal
   location is changed.


   [mypaper_fig1b_new2.gif]


    Fig. 1b. Example of the D3D sounding tool, with the cursor positioned
   over New England, for the 12 h Eta forecast.

   An additional feature of D3D and Vis5D is the ability to construct
   trajectories, with the option of tracing a trajectory from a given
   point forward in time, or examining the trajectory that traces air that
   reaches a given point. The trajectories can be displayed as lines or
   ribbons, and can be colored by another variable. This interesting tool
   is familiar to meteorologists, but they are unable to construct them in
   operations. Therefore, the D3D trajectory product will be somewhat like
   the isosurface in that it may take time for forecasters to determine
   what value trajectories have in operational forecasting and how best to
   utilize them. The paper by Barjenbruch et al. (2002, this session)
   discusses some potential operational uses of trajectories at the
   Boulder WFO. Examples of several different trajectory products
   available within D3D are shown in Fig. 1c. One of the most recent
   software changes was to create a new Graphical User Interface (GUI) for
   the trajectory application, shown on the left side of Fig. 1c, that
   allows one to easily create five different types of trajectories: 1)
   "point," where one can launch a trajectory from a selected level (the
   ribbon from Indiana to New England in Fig. 1c); 2) "levels," a
   predefined script that launches trajectories at one location at 50 mb
   intervals in the vertical (this is illustrated for the streamer of
   trajectories eminating from a point over northeastern Minnesota; 3)
   "column," another script that launches trajectories at a given level at
   intervals along a north-south line; 4) "row," which does the same for
   an east-west line, as illustrated for the trajectories along the row
   from Texas east into the Atlantic; and 5) "series," which automatically
   launches a point type trajectory at each available model time interval
   (6 h for the Eta, for example).


   [mypaper_fig1c_color.gif]


    Fig. 1c. D3D trajectories showing three options.

   The last D3D tool is called Volume Visualization, which is a true 3-D
   type product, but unlike the isosurface that encloses a field at a
   prescribed level, it displays the entire range of data as a "fog" or
   "haze" type product. An example is shown in Fig. 1d for relative
   humidity, and although much of the potential utility of the product is
   lost with a black and white figure, one gets a flavor for how the
   product works, in this case making the display of relative humidity
   appear much like a water vapor satellite image. One of the main
   difficulties with this application is that it uses a lot of computer
   resources, especially when the images are software rendered (as in the
   current setup). This makes it too slow to use operationally at this
   time under most machines in place, although with computer power
   increasing this limitation should diminish in the future.


   [mypaper_fig1d_color.gif]


    Fig. 1d. Volume Visualization of Eta relative humidity.

3. HISTORY OF D3D AT FSL

3.1 Early work with visualization

   In early planning for AWIPS the idea of having visualization as part of
   the overall AWIPS display package was discussed and planned for as a
   future component. Exploratory work with visualization at FSL began
   around 1990 using commercial software for some research applications. A
   commercial package called Application Visualization System (AVS5) was
   used extensively, including as a display tool for analyses from the
   Local Analysis and Prediction System (LAPS, McGinley et al. 1991) that
   are displayed on the FSL web page (http://laps.fsl.noaa.gov). After
   several years of exploration we decided to use the University of
   Wisconsin's Vis5D package, with its superior animation capabilities,
   and long history in the meteorological research community. As a plus,
   Vis5D had already been exposed to the NWS through a COMET training
   module that used Vis5D to produce 3-D displays of pseudo-reflectivity
   for convective storms simulated by a research numerical model
   (Anticipating Convective Storm Structure and Evolution, released in
   1996; see http://www.comet.ucar.edu).


3.2 Preliminary evaluation of D3D

   After the decision in early 1997 to use Vis5D as the core software for
   D3D development, the next step was to decide what portions of the
   existing software should be modified. Since Vis5D was designed for use
   in meteorological research, the basic tools were already well thought
   out and were known to be useful for meteorological analysis. So the
   main focus was on the interfaces that Vis5D used to select fields,
   change colors, or otherwise interact with the data. While the methods
   employed by Vis5D were effective, they differed considerably from
   similar tools that are in AWIPS D2D, which is the basic workstation
   used in every WFO. In order to minimize any learning curve associated
   with using D3D, it made sense to make it physically look like D2D, and
   to have similar methods of accessing and manipulating data that were
   already known to operational forecasters. So the first main software
   push was to replace the Vis5D product selection matrix (Fig. 2a) with a
   D2D-like Volume Browser (Fig. 2b)


   [mypaper_fig2a.gif]

    Fig. 2a. Vis5D product selector.


   [mypaper_fig2b_color.gif]

    Fig. 2b. D3D Volume Browser, meant to replace what is shown in Fig.
   2a.

   Besides the changes necessary to make product selection using the
   Volume Browser, the redesign of the Volume Browser for D3D needed to
   incorporate the numerous editing functions for the D3D products. In
   Vis5D the editing functions are controlled by individual GUIs that
   become active with different mouse clicks on a product in the product
   selector matrix. As with the overall Vis5D product selector, these
   Vis5D tools were certainly effective enough, but their methods of
   editing fields (color, for example) were quite different than similar
   methods used in D2D, and so were also prime candidates for software
   changes as work began with D3D. Since certain parameters in D3D need
   specification that is not required in D2D, such as a value to prescribe
   for an isosurface, the D3D Volume Browser editing functions could not
   be exactly like their D2D counterparts. An example of how the D3D
   Volume Browser looks when editing an isosurface product (field) is
   shown in Fig. 3.


   [mypaper_fig2b_color.gif]


    Fig. 2b. D3D Volume Browser, meant to replace what is shown in Fig.
   2a.

   Besides the changes necessary to make product selection using the
   Volume Browser, the redesign of the Volume Browser for D3D needed to
   incorporate the numerous editing functions for the D3D products. In
   Vis5D the editing functions are controlled by individual GUIs that
   become active with different mouse clicks on a product in the product
   selector matrix. As with the overall Vis5D product selector, these
   Vis5D tools were certainly effective enough, but their methods of
   editing fields (color, for example) were quite different than similar
   methods used in D2D, and so were also prime candidates for software
   changes as work began with D3D. Since certain parameters in D3D need
   specification that is not required in D2D, such as a value to prescribe
   for an isosurface, the D3D Volume Browser editing functions could not
   be exactly like their D2D counterparts. An example of how the D3D
   Volume Browser looks when editing an isosurface product (field) is
   shown in Fig. 3.


   [mypaper_fig3.gif]


     Fig. 3. D3D Volume Browser in "edit mode" for editing an isosurface
   of vorticity. A value to display for the isosurface is controlled by
   the toolbar. Other editing functions like color selection and other
   features are invoked by other GUIs through the boxes on the right.

   There were other important changes to Vis5D and how it interacted with
   the database that were required for an operational type setting. These
   are detailed in McCaslin et al. (1999, 2000), and basically involved
   how the application accessed the same files that D2D uses.
   Additionally, changes were made to enable one to switch to a different
   model in D3D without restarting the application. Other changes refined
   and enhanced Vis5D's display capabilities. After sufficient changes
   were made to the application to allow it to reliably be used on an
   AWIPS platform (Hewlett Packard Unix workstation), we began to evaluate
   D3D at FSL, looking at both its performance as well as exploring the
   potential utility of the application for weather forecasting. A natural
   means to accomplish this initial more informal evaluation was available
   at FSL through our Daily Weather Briefing (DWB) program, a longstanding
   (since the early 1980s) program that involves a meteorologist giving a
   regularly-scheduled daily 30-min weather briefing to anyone interested
   in attending. The DWB allows for informal evaluatuon of new
   technologies such as D3D in a non-operational setting, and its use in
   the DWB began in the fall of 1997, from which we were able to receive a
   good deal of feedback that was useful in our initial development and
   refinement of D3D. After about a year of this effort, however, we felt
   even more could be accomplished with a more organized forecasting
   experiment, of the type that FSL employed frequently over the last 20
   years in developing D2D. So in the summer of 1998 a real-time forecast
   exercise (RT98) was carried out using FSL meteorologists as well as a
   few forecasters from the nearby (now collocated) Denver WFO. RT98 did
   produce a higher level of useful evaluation, and again changes were
   made to encorporate some of the feedback we received.


3.3 Real-time Exercise-1999

   After digesting much of the feedback from the RT98, which included a
   generally positive response to D3D, the next logical step in D3D
   development would be to expose the package to a wider variety of users
   via a more formal forecast exercise, again in the spirit of the early
   development days of D2D at FSL. The RT99 exercise was carried out from
   October to December 1999 at FSL. An invitation was sent to each of the
   six NWS regions and to all the National Centers to send one forecaster
   from each location to FSL for a period of two weeks. The response to
   the invitations to participate was excellent, as shown in Table 2. More
   information on RT99 can be found in Szoke et al. (2001).

   CAPTION:

Table 2: RT99 Attendees (NWS Region in parentheses)

              Organization

                                     Date

   NCEP/Environmental Modeling Center

                                     25 Oct-5 Nov

   NCEP/Storm Prediction Center

   WFO/Missoula, Montana (Western)

   WFO/Amarillo, Texas (Southern)

   NWS Office of Meteorology

                                     Nov 8-19

   WFO/Gray, Maine (Eastern)

   WFO/Dodge City, Kansas (Central)

   WFO/Boulder, Colorado (Central)

                                     Nov 8-12

   WFO/Anchorage, Alaska (Alaska)

                                     Nov 15-19

   NCEP/Aviation Weather Center

                                     Dec 13-17

   NWS Headquarters

   NCEP/Tropical Prediction Center

   The first two sessions were two weeks long to allow for a more relaxed
   but comprehensive exercise. The shorter final session was all that
   could be arranged to accommodate the last three participants who could
   not commit to a full two weeks. Week 1 focused on training users to
   become proficient with the system using specific exercises with
   real-time and case data, introducing each D3D tool separately to allow
   adequate time for individual evaluation, and for each tool comparing to
   what one could discern using similar (where applicable) features in
   D2D. Week 2 focused on evaluating D3D as part of an operational
   forecast system using three cases run in "delayed real-time" (DRT)
   mode. Extensive online evaluation was conducted daily using detailed
   questionnaires designed by the FSL evaluation team, with similar
   experience in evaluating D2D. Additionally, participants could enter
   freeform comments online at any time, a feature that turned out to be a
   very popular way to record their evaluation. For the shorter, final
   phase we tried to include most of the important features of the full
   exercise.

   Although we compiled a large number of suggestions for improvement of
   D3D (FSL E-Team 2000), the overall feedback from RT99 was extremely
   positive, and many participants wanted to take the application back to
   their WFO or Regional Office in its current state. Because of some
   workstation limitations that did not allow for Volume Visualization to
   be adequately addressed during RT99, the main three dimensional tool
   not available in D2D was the isosurface. The forecasters in RT99 found
   that isosurfaces were certainly very illustrative in terms of
   visualizing the atmosphere as well as quickly finding features, but
   they also noted that it would take some time for forecasters to
   determine how best to use them. Clearly the atmosphere is
   three-dimensional, and the isosurface allows one to view it as such,
   but it was still difficult to overcome the tendency to want to view
   fields in the traditional 2-D manner, plus there were problems such as
   georeferencing in some situations that made them more difficult to
   quantiatively use.

   While intrigued by the potential of isosurfaces, participants were also
   impressed with the other applications in the D3D package, including the
   movable cross sections and plan views, and the very popular sounding
   tool. While each of these have analogous D2D features, the manner by
   which one interacts with these tools in D3D enables the forecaster to
   quickly and effectively peruse a large volume of model output. A
   general consensus was that this should allow operational forecasters to
   better focus on the important aspects of a forecast more quickly and
   with less chance of missing some critical feature because they failed
   to examine the "correct" level or the most appropriate cross section.

   In addition to various suggestions to improve D3D, some of the main
   criticisms included the desire to also display observed data, and the
   need to be able to examine more than one model at a time. Both of these
   issues could potentially be addressed with modifications in the future.
   Specific improvements were suggested to the Sounding tool, while a
   general consensus was to continue to make the D3D GUIs appear more like
   D2D, if possible. This was viewed as important in order to reduce the
   amount of forecaster training needed to use the system, allowing
   instead for the training to concentrate more on the meteorological use
   of features like isosurfaces.


3.4 Post-RT99 D3D development at FSL

   We are limited at this time in the effort we are able to put towards
   D3D, so priorities have been chosen based on as much consensus as could
   be derived from RT99. The major changes were to complete the Sounding
   tool to where it is now (Fig. 1b), and to complete the replacement of
   all Vis5D interfaces with more D2D-like GUIs (both completed in an
   October 2001 release).

   A very major development after RT99 was porting D3D from the AWIPS
   HP-Unix platform to a PC platform using Linux, which has also been
   developed at FSL for D2D as a potential replacement for the current
   AWIPS workstations. The significant advantage to this switch was to
   utilize the low cost but high performance of rapidly evolving PCs,
   which can easily be upgraded to take advantage of new computing power.
   Two important D3D issues were solved by porting to a Linux PC: 1) the
   potential problem of slow response to the highly interactive D3D, which
   can easily frustrate the user; and 2) an inexpensive way for a WFO to
   try D3D, since a WFO can now add an inexpensive PC to experiment with
   D3D without any impact on operations.


   4. CURRENT FIELD STATUS OF D3D


   We noted that participants in RT99 often wished to take D3D back with
   them and install it at their WFO. This was not possible at the time
   because the AWIPS Unix workstations were only barely able to support
   D3D, and we believed that slow performance would be a significant
   detriment to D3D acceptability, based on RT99 results. Once the port to
   a Linux PC was complete, we announced the availability of the software
   to those who participated in RT99 (since they would be able to train
   their own staff), and many of the locations had an available Linux PC
   already, or were prepared to purchase one. The main stumbling block
   then was to hook the machine up to the real-time AWIPS database, which
   involved the WFO making the necessary arrangements with Regional
   Headquarters and the AWIPS Program Office. We tried to assist by
   running tests to assure that D3D would not have a negative impact on
   operations in terms of slowing down AWIPS D2D performance. Our tests
   showed there was a minimum impact when using D3D, and no impact at all
   if the application is simply left idle. Additionally, D3D can be easily
   shut down and quickly restarted.

   Initially two WFOs (Gray, Maine, and Dodge City, Kansas) pursued D3D in
   a lengthy but eventually (by early 2001) successful effort to
   incorporate it into their operations. The Gray WFO worked closely with
   Eastern Region Headquarters, which also has D3D. Their experiences with
   D3D thusfar are discussed in papers in this session (Hayes et al. 2002,
   and Johnson 2002). Other WFOs have also expressed interest in the
   application. FSL held a technology workshop for the NWS Southern Region
   late in 2000, and following this several of their WFOs sent
   representatives for a 3-day D3D training session in January 2001. This
   has resulted in the installation of D3D at WFOs in Talahassee, Florida
   (see Watson et al. 2002, two papers), Tulsa, Oklahoma, and Amarillo,
   Texas, and at Southern Region Headquarters. FSL closely works with the
   Boulder WFO, and they have had D3D since May 2001 (Barjenbruch et al.,
   2002). FSL also works with weather services around the world, and the
   Central Weather Bureau in Taiwan recently acquired a Linux-PC version
   of D3D for testing.


   5. FUTURE PLANS


   At this time D3D is not formally in the AWIPS development plans, though
   it may evolve into them in time if further evaluation finds the
   software to be useful for operational forecasting. Without this formal
   acceptance, funding for further development is limited, so we cannot
   make all the changes suggested by RT99 or the continuing feedback from
   the field. The next major software efforts will be towards making the
   application more flexible to different AWIPS databases, and eventually
   addressing issues like the incorporation of actual observations (point
   data or radar), as well as multiple model displays.

   We are encouraged by the interest that has already occurred within the
   NWS in trying D3D at some WFOs. The availability of D3D on an
   inexpensive Linux PC platform, and the recent move toward installing at
   least one such platform to run AWIPS at many WFOs, should make it
   relatively easy for additional WFOs to try D3D. It is our strong belief
   that widespread experimental use of D3D by a variety of users, under a
   range of weather problems, is the best way to yield a broad range of
   input that should eventually lead to an application that can be of
   value to NWS forecast operations. The increasing use of local models
   among WFOs yields new parameters that forecasters are not accustomed to
   examining with forecast models, such as model-generated reflectivity
   and cloud forecasts, naturals for displaying in 3-D. We will need to
   devise new ways to make it easier for those who have D3D in operations
   to evaluate the software and suggest changes to us, likely through
   changes to our evolving D3D homepage at http://d3d.fsl.noaa.gov. So far
   we have established a forum for exchange of email among users.

   D3D is currently in use at two Regional Headquarters (Eastern and
   Southern), but not yet at any National Centers, even though they sent
   representatives to RT99. The Storm Prediction Center is a logical first
   choice, as their RT99 participant was quite enthusiastic about the
   Sounding tool, which has just been updated in the new release. Our
   future efforts will also involve continuing to spread the word about
   D3D, through appearances at conferences and workshops. We are
   interacting with COMET, where they have installed D3D in their training
   facility. The number of D3D papers at this session represents the most
   discussion that the application has had thus far, and is an encouraging
   sign that there is interest in pursuing this potential operational
   application.


   6. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS


   We wish to thank Dennis Rodgers of FSL for a review of this paper, and
   Nita Fullerton (FSL) for a technical review.


   7. REFERENCES



   Barjenbruch, D.B., E. R. Thaler and E. Szoke, 2002: Operational
   applications of three-dimensional air parcel trajectories using AWIPS
   D3D. Preprints, Interactive Symposium on AWIPS , Orlando, FL. Amer.
   Meteor. Soc. J5.5.

   Forecast Systems Laboratory Evaluation Team, 2000: RT99 D3D Evaluation
   Final Questionnaire Catalog of Results, 130 pp.

   Hayes, J.C., J. W. Cannon and J. Watson, 2002: Applying D3D in an
   operational environment. Preprints, Interactive Symposium on AWIPS ,
   Orlando, FL. Amer. Meteor. Soc. J5.2.

   Hibbard, W. R. and D. Santek, 1991: The Vis5D system for easy
   interactive visualization. Preprints, 7th International Conference on
   Interactive Information and Processing Systems for Meteorology,
   Oceanography, and Hydrology , New Orleans, LA. Amer. Meteor. Soc.,
   129-134.

   Johnson, J.R., 2002: Numerical model visualization using the FSL D3D: A
   paradigm shift for operational forecasters. Preprints, Interactive
   Symposium on AWIPS , Orlando, FL. Amer. Met. Soc. J5.3.

   McCaslin, P.T., P. A. McDonald, and E. J. Szoke, 1999: Developing and
   Testing a 3D Visualization Workstation Application at FSL. Preprints,
   15th International Conference on Interactive Information and Processing
   Systems for Meteorology, Oceanography, and Hydrology , Dallas, TX.
   Amer. Meteor. Soc., 498-501.

   McCaslin, P.T., P. A. McDonald, and E. J. Szoke, 2000: 3D Visualization
   Development at NOAA Forecast Systems Laboratory. AMC SIGGRAPH Computer
   Graphics, Feb 2000, Vol. 34 No. 1, 41-44.

   McGinley, J.A., S.C. Albers, and P.A. Stamus, 1991: Validation of a
   composite convective index as defined by a real-time local analysis
   system. Weather and Forecasting. 6, 337-356.

   Szoke, E.J., U.H. Grote, P.C. Kucera, P.T. McCaslin, P.A. McDonald, and
   W.F. Roberts, 2001: D3D: A potential 3D visualization tool for the
   National Weather Service. Preprints, 17th International Conference on
   Interactive Information and Processing Systems for Meteorology,
   Oceanography, and Hydrology , Albuquerque, NM. Amer. Meteor. Soc.,
   10-14.

   Wakefield, J.S., 1998: Operational Risk Reduction: Easing AWIPS into
   the Field. Preprints, 14th International Conference on Interactive
   Information and Processing Systems for Meteorology, Oceanography, and
   Hydrology , Phoenix, AZ. Amer. Met.. Soc., 389-391.

   Watson, A.I., J. D. Fournier, T. P. Lericos, and E. J. Szoke, 2002: The
   use of D3D when examining tropical cyclones. Preprints, Interactive
   Symposium on AWIPS , Orlando, FL. Amer. Meteor. Soc. J5.4.

   Watson, A.I., T. P. Lericos, J. D. Fournier, and E. J. Szoke, 2002:
   Better understanding of QG theory through the use of D3D. Preprints,
   Interactive Symposium on AWIPS , Orlando, FL. Amer. Meteor. Soc. J8.8.
