http://centuryfarms.fsa.usda.gov/links.htm

                     Celebrating America's Century Farms
   Home Listing Photo Gallery Links


   USDA Millennium Calendar
   USDA Millennium Calendar
   The Department of Agriculture Employee Services and Recreation
   Association (ESRA) takes great pride in producing a special Millennium
   tribute to the "Century Farms of America." This Millennium calendar
   features just a few of
   the over 65,000 farms in America that have been in continuous operation
   by the same family for over 100 years. In some cases, these farms have
   been in existence prior to the birth of our nation.
   This unprecedented calendar will become a collectible item, and will be
   the first of a series of calendars produced by ESRA celebrating
   agriculture in America. The highest quality archival reproduction and
   printing techniques, coupled with outstanding photography and
   narration, make this calendar an exceptional piece. Shipping on this
   calendar is $2.50. If you order 5 or more, shipping is $12.00 for the
   entire order. Orders of 200 or more will be discounted 10%. You may
   have your agency name embossed on the calendar cover for an additional
   fee. Please call ESRA for pricing.
   The Virginia Century Farm Program -
   Honoring the Enduring Spirit of Agriculture and Virginia's Farm
   Families
   Virginia Century Farm Program
   Ohio's Outstanding Century Farm Award's Program
   Ohio's Outstanding Century Farm Award's Program

   The Ohio's Outstanding Century Farm Award program is sponsored by the
   Ohio Department of Agriculture, Ohio's Country Journal, and the Ohio
   Historical Society.
   Maryland Century Farm Program


   Maryland Century Farm Program

   Taking Pride In
   Our Rural Heritage
   Maryland's family farms and rural traditions have played a key role in
   our state's development from its original
   colonial days.
   Today, while agriculture is quite different from years past, the farm
   family and their traditions continue to provide
   Maryland with its leading industry and contribute greatly to a
   lifestyle rich in values, determination and tradition.
   Ownership and operation of a farm by members of the same family for one
   hundred years or more is a significant
   accomplishment. The Maryland Department of Agriculture established the
   Century Farm Program to honor these farm families for their dedication
   in maintaining agriculture as a viable industry in Maryland and
   providing a way of life for future generations.

   The Tennessee Century Farm Program
   The Tennessee Century Farm Program
   In 1975 and 1976, the Tennessee Department of Agriculture established
   the Century Farm Program to recognize the dedication and contributions
   of families who had retained ownership of the same farm for over 100
   years. To date, over 800 farms, representing 93 of the state's 95
   counties, have been identified as Century Farms. While some farms are
   as old as 200 years and are now much reduced in size from the original
   acreage, each farm has at least ten acres and produces at least $1,000
   in farm
   income annually.
   Through good and bad times, the century farmers have been the mainstay
   of Tennessee's number-one industry--agriculture. Representing all
   Tennessee farmers, past, present, and future, the Century Farms are the
   product of the tenacious spirit of the first settlers and the
   perseverance of those succeeding generations who coped with wars,
   floods, droughts, economic crises, and other obstacles presented by
   natural and human intervention. This project is a continuation of the
   Century Farm
   Program and a tribute to the farm families of Tennessee.
   Submit a link


   USDA Celebrating the Millennium
