http://www-tdo.lanl.gov/moller.shtml

        Theoretical (T) Division                           publications
           [bg1w2hffcc99.gif]               [bg1w2hffcc99.gif]
     Los Alamos National Laboratory Lab home LANL phone directory Search
                                                 LANL Web




                           [line122w1h660000.gif]
                           Home
                           [line122w1h660000.gif]
                           Groups
                           [line122w1h660000.gif]
                           Personnel
                           [line122w1h660000.gif]
                           P/T Colloquium
                           [line122w1h660000.gif]
                           Publications




   A new look at old fission mysteries

   When theoretical physicist Peter Möller of Nuclear Physics (T-16)
   worked on his thesis at Los Alamos in 1973, his calculation of the
   nuclear potential energy for 175 different nuclear shapes, or grid
   points, pushed the limits of existing computational power. Using one
   IBM computer punch card to define each grid point, Möller's total input
   data card deck for the calculation was about one inch thick.

   Much has changed in the field of high-performance computing and
   modeling since Möller did that calculation. Punched cards are obsolete,
   computing has become ubiquitous and Laboratory physicists like Möller
   now use computers to explore their theoretical models in previously
   unimaginable detail. Faster, more powerful computers mean that the
   number of grid points or data sets (in this case the number of nuclear
   shapes) that can be investigated can now run in the hundreds of
   thousands or even millions.

   Recently, Möller, together with David Madland and Arnold Sierk, both of
   T-16, and Akira Iwamoto of the Japan Atomic Energy Research Institute,
   had yet another chance to push the limits of computational power at Los
   Alamos and at the same time help to further unravel one of the great
   mysteries in nuclear science - the process of nuclear fission.

   Since its discovery in 1938, the phenomenon of fission has frequently
   been explained in terms of a liquid drop. In such a depiction, when a
   nucleus starts to deform, the energy increases caused by the surface
   tension of the drop. If the nucleus deforms but is stopped early in the
   deformation process, it snaps back to its original shape just like a
   rubber band that is pulled out and released. But if the nucleus is
   deformed beyond a certain configuration, beyond a point of no return,
   it snaps and, like the rubber band, the two fragments fly apart.

   Möller's computer model is based upon a similar analogy of a ball being
   pushed up toward a mountain pass. The pass itself represents the point
   of no return: after being crossed the ball will roll down into another
   mountain valley. The height of the mountain pass corresponds to the
   threshold energy of the fissioning nucleus. Since a five-dimensional
   energy landscape cannot be visualized on a two-dimensional sheet of
   paper, unlike that of a geographical map, a challenge in the group's
   research was to establish which of the many passes in the
   five-dimensional energy landscape represented the relevant fission
   threshold. This problem was solved by considering, in the computer
   model, imaginary water flowing in five dimensions.

   Möller's model used nearly three million physical grid points to define
   critical shape coordinates related to various aspects of elongation,
   neck diameter, emerging fragment deformation and mass division in the
   fission of radium and fermium.

   Because several million grid points and five shape dimensions are
   required to reach a sufficient level of physical detail to adequately
   describe fission, structures such as those revealed in the calculation
   by Möller and his collaborators had never before been seen or
   identified in nuclear structure calculations.

   The results of this groundbreaking research have allowed a number of
   fundamental conclusions to be drawn about the fission process. First,
   there are several fission paths possible for most heavier nuclei, which
   means the fission process is more complex than is accounted for in most
   existing models. Second, for lighter actinide elements like radium and
   thorium, two paths dominate: one mass asymmetric, with division into
   unequal fragment masses, and another mass symmetric with equal fragment
   masses. Finally, the calculations are in agreement with experimental
   observations for elements lighter than fermium - that agreement being
   that the average kinetic energy is higher for the asymmetric mode than
   for the symmetric mode. The calculations also reproduce, for the first
   time, the average fragment masses observed in fission. A detailed
   account of the work appeared in the Feb. 15 issue of the journal
   Nature.

   The net result of this research is a greater and more comprehensive
   understanding of nuclear structure and the underlying mechanisms behind
   nuclear fission. The new insight into fission obtained from the
   computer studies by Möller and his colleagues are expected to lead to
   improvements in related models associated with science-based stockpile
   stewardship, the safe storage of nuclear waste and even the synthesis
   of elements in supernovae.The group's most recent calculations required
   about 2,000 CPU days of computer time to process and were performed on
   the Avalon cluster at Los Alamos - a group of 144 interconnected
   computers running at 500 megahertz each. Funding from the Department of
   Energy's Offices of Defense Programs and Science supported Möller's
   work.

   --Todd Hanson





        [1w4hffcc99.gif] [1w4hffcc99.gif] [1w8hffcc99.gif]


   Los Alamos National Laboratory


    Operated by the University of California for the National Nuclear
    Security Administration,
    of the US Department of Energy.     Copyright © 2001 UC |
    Disclaimer/Privacy





           tdiv-webmaster@lanl.gov : Last Modified: October 25, 2001
