http://fire.pppl.gov/japan_allocate_resource.pdf

   (English Translation by JAERI) Report on the Allocation of Resources
   for Research and the Sharing of Responsibilities in International
   Co-operation June 2000 CONTENTS
   Introduction...........................................................
   ................................2 1. Allocation of Resources for
   Research..................................................3 1.1 Basis
   for Consideration on the Problem of the Allocation of Resources for
   National Research Activities in Science....................3 1.2 The
   Problem of the Allocation of Resources for Research
   Activities.............................................................
   ............................7 1.3 Allocation of Resources for
   ITER..................................................14 2. Sharing of
   Responsibilities in International Co-operations..............17 2.1
   Incentives of Conducting International Co-operations................17
   2.2 Types of International Co-operation in Scientific
   Researches......17 2.3 Sharing of Responsibilities in International
   Co-operations..........18 1 Introduction The Special Committee on the
   ITER Project of the Atomic Energy Commission has been established in
   December 1996 under the Chairmanship of Prof. Hiroyuki Yoshikawa,
   Chairman of the Science Council of Japan, in order to investigate
   widely how to deal with the ITER project from various view points such
   as Japan's long-term role in the international community as well as its
   social and economic aspects. In March 1998, the Committee summarized
   the results in an Interim Report entitled " Discussion points and
   further consideration in the Special Committee on ITER Project" and
   clarified the issues to be discussed in future. The Interim report
   stated that "the Committee understands the great significance of Japan
   becoming the host country of the ITER Program," but on the other hand
   it stated that "through examination of problems, we identified subject
   areas requiring clarification in order for Japan to determine whether
   or not to become the host country," and presented six subject areas as
   follows: (1) Survey on long-term energy supply and demand (2)
   Feasibility study on alternative energy sources (3) Technical
   feasibility of fusion energy (4) Fundamental research as scientific
   basis of the project (5) Allocation of resources for research (6)
   International relations The current committee was requested to
   investigate subjects (5) and (6). Regarding subject (5), it was
   indicated in the Interim Report that: "Many research fields need public
   funding. Although the final allocation of funds across these fields
   should be made in accordance with a policy based on sound basic
   strategy, the basic concept of the general rule for the allocation
   should be established. In particular, the trade-off between
   front-developing type and mankind-sustaining type researches is
   important. These are by no means antinomy against each other.
   Clarifying the fundamental relationship between these researches, the
   basic idea on the allocation of research resources should be created by
   reflecting the current trend of increasing demand for the latter type
   of research." Regarding subject (6), the Interim Report said: "With
   respect to the sharing of responsibility for international
   co-operation, any of several possible criteria might be used, depending
   on the type of project. Our aim is to establish a basic guideline for
   an actual project. For this task, discussions in the Mega-science
   Forum, established by the OECD- CSTP (Organization for Economic
   Co-operation and Development - Committee for Science and Technology
   Policy), would be useful as a reference." This report summarizes the
   results of investigations based on these indications. 2 1. Allocation
   of Resources for Research 1.1 Basis for Consideration on the Problem of
   the Allocation of Resources for National Research Activities in Science
   (1) The Case of Prototypic Science In the 19th century, during the
   course of systematizing science, a prototypic pattern and a structure
   of scientific research was formed. One can recognize that the most
   significant feature of the basic structure was its self-closed,
   self-sufficient and self-contained characteristics of the scientific
   research. Scientists organized their own community as a professional
   group, and their research activities were completely self-contained,
   self-sufficient in their community. This was the essential feature of
   the structure. The knowledge produced as a result of research
   activities was circulated, consumed, used, and evaluated only inside
   the community of scientists. Other groups of educated professionals,
   such as clergymen, medical doctors, and lawyers, also organized
   themselves as professional groups, which were exclusive and tightly
   united. However, there was a decisive difference between the scientists
   and other groups: the other groups had clients outside of the group, to
   whom they were accountable, while scientists did not. For instance,
   clergymen had as clients believers and seekers after truth. Medical
   doctors had as clients patients. And lawyers had clients fighting for
   their legal rights. Without clients, these professions simply would not
   have existed. Scientists, by contrast, performed their work to satisfy
   their own curiosity and were not accountable to outsiders. Moreover,
   the scientific community was limited to individuals who shared the same
   scientific curiosity. Objectives of their researches existed only
   inside themselves. When they achieved their research objectives, a
   cycle of research was terminated. This type of research may be called
   "self-contained prototypic scientific research." In the case of
   self-contained prototypic scientific research, problems related to the
   allocation of resources simply did not arise. Historically, in the 19th
   century, almost all scientific research (including research at
   universities) was self- funded or supported financially by wealthy
   patrons who had curiosity in science, but were not involved in research
   itself. In one way or another, individual scientists raised their own
   research funds. In the 20th century, scientific research gradually
   gained public recognition. Foundations were established to support
   scientific research systematically. The principle of the support was
   "Philanthropy". Research resources were allocated based on the merits
   of each individual research program. Moreover, at the beginning of the
   20th century, private enterprise, with the exception of a few chemical
   organizations, did not try to profit from the fruits of scientific
   research. Scientific research at this stage relied on independent
   scientists and their self-management. Therefore, scientists had few
   problems related to the 3 allocation of resources including human
   resources. Today, this system is still to be found, particularly in the
   area of pure research. For example, this can be seen in the examination
   of general researches in the Government Subsidy for Promoting
   Scientific Research, where researches are evaluated and selected on the
   basis of the internal propriety rather than the priority of research
   themes. In addition, the outcomes of the research are evaluated by the
   researchers themselves. There is no final evaluation system in
   principle. These evidences suggest that such an understanding be
   accepted in the area of pure research. (2) Science Based on the Bush
   Principle Over time, changes occurred in the structure of scientific
   research. The most dramatic change was the rise of the so-called Bush
   Principle, based on a report, entitled "Science: The Endless Frontier"
   (1945) by Vannevar Bush, Secretary General of the Research and
   Development Division of the Defense Department at that time, which was
   written at the request of Mr. Roosevelt, the President of the United
   States. The Bush Principle was based on experiences during World War
   II. The Roosevelt Administration had sought to use the fruits of
   scientific research and scientists' effort as an important key to win
   the war coping with the outbreak of the war in Europe in 1939 and that
   against Japan in 1941. Dr. Bush was appointed as Secretary General of
   the Research and Development Division of the Defense Department in
   1941, and played a leading role in this effort. By the end of 1944,
   when the Manhattan project was near completion, Mr. Roosevelt was very
   pleased with the service of Dr. Bush who was executing successfully the
   unprecedented work where all scientists joined for the national
   objectives in the emergency. Anticipating the end of the war, the
   president wrote to Dr. Bush and asked what should be done to maintain a
   system similar to that which the central government had used so
   successfully during wartime for the national objectives during
   peacetime. Dr. Bush's response to this letter was the so-called Bush
   Report. Based on his wartime experience, Dr. Bush recommended the
   systematic and organized use of scientific research through the central
   government as a national policy of the United States. Dr. Bush believed
   that governmental support of research and development and the resulting
   increase of knowledge of nature would advance peacetime national
   objectives, such as reducing poverty, increasing employment, creating
   new industries, and battling disease. This understanding was absorbed
   by Japan, where the Bush Principle still underlies the basic law of the
   present Japanese Science and Technology and the enactment of its basic
   plans. It should be noted, however, that the Bush Principle is
   controversial, and many believe it to be obsolete. After World War II,
   the United States applied the Bush Principle in the execution of many
   large-scale projects, such as the further development of nuclear
   weapons, the development of intercontinental ballistic missiles, and
   the many space-exploration projects of NASA. After the end of the Cold
   War, however, such projects diminished. This might be called "the end
   of the Bush Principle." 4 However, this view ignores the fact or
   historical coincidence that the original Roosevelt-Bush concept was not
   actually applied due to the postwar military conflict with the Soviet
   Union. Whereas the aim of Roosevelt and Bush was to increase public
   welfare by applying the Bush Principle, postwar research and
   development was influenced by the military competition with the Soviet
   Union. Considering this, the Bush Principle was applied in a pure form,
   so one cannot easily claim it is obsolete. In any event, it is clear to
   see that the Bush Principle produced a new phase of scientific
   research. The self-contained structure of prototypic scientific
   research changed to a new structure with clients outside the community
   of scientists. And, the powerful central government is a representative
   of the clients. (3) The Gap between the Bottom-Up and Top-Down
   Approaches In the application of the Bush Principle, a problem arises.
   On one hand, the attitudes of scientists toward their research are
   still basically self-reliant and self- contained. The selection of
   research themes is still decided fundamentally by the spontaneous
   curiosity of individual scientists. On the other hand, the nation, as a
   client, establishes themes (the missions) as tools to advance national
   policies, and tries to direct the efforts of the scientists. Sometimes,
   there is a happy accordance between the wishes of each. But, at other
   times, there is a conflict. When the government controls the work of
   scientists, resources are allocated in accordance with research themes
   that advance the goals of national policy. In the case of government
   direction of research, two different principles of resource allocation
   coexist. One principle is "top-down direction," wherein research themes
   are selected primarily according to national policy and goals. The
   other principle is bottom-up direction, wherein research themes are
   selected by scientists according to their own interests. In the case of
   prototypic scientific research, research resources once were furnished
   by the scientists themselves. But this means of support is not
   sufficient to meet the needs of large-scale research. At present,
   therefore, it is reasonable that the nation provides a fair amount of
   research resources, even for research projects that originate from the
   curiosity of individual scientists. (4) Principles of Resource
   Allocation for Prototypic Science As mentioned above, it is reasonable
   for a nation to allocate a certain share of research resources for
   projects stemming from the curiosity of individual scientists. However,
   this principle must be applied with care, particularly in comparison
   with other cultural activities. When scientific research is based on
   the curiosity of scientists, it should be based on the principle of
   philanthropy. After all, the allocation is based on the recognition
   that scientific research is useful to expand the width and depth of
   human beings. Of course, fine arts such as literature, poetry,
   painting, sculpture, and 5 dancing are also useful for that same
   purpose, but for the most part the government does not give financial
   support for creative arts. Novelists and painters, even if they are
   very poor, do not demand financial help from the nation for their
   creative activities. An exception is the fields of opera and Kabuki,
   where a movement has begun to provide government support for building
   national theaters and preparing the infrastructure of these artistic
   activities. If prototypic science is driven by the curiosity of
   researchers, it should be discussed whether the project should be
   financially supported by the nation's taxpayers or not, even if a
   research project is large in financial and human resources. The
   rationale for that support is not significantly clear compared with
   that for supporting artistic activities. If the results of scientific
   research bring "national benefits" such as winning the Novel Prize and
   enhancing Japan's international prestige, this is an additional benefit
   and an additional rationale for the use of government funds. However,
   world-famous novels, poems, paintings, or sculptures, all of which can
   be produced with the support of government funds, would also raise
   Japan's international prestige. In the light of the foregoing
   discussion, it would be hard to argue that there is a unique rationale
   to provide government support for prototypic scientific research.
   Rather, the question of support must be considered within a broader
   context of how and to what extent the government should give financial
   support for cultural activities. (5) Research Resources in Private
   Organizations Another basis for consideration of research resources is
   investments in research and development by private organizations. After
   basic science had been established in the 19th century, research was
   confined mostly to universities and private laboratories owned by the
   wealthy. At that time, scientists did conduct some research in private
   industrial organizations. Industries did not have means to use the
   research results of scientists. The government had divisions handling
   national standards and regulations, international standards, or
   patents. These divisions included the Bureau of Weights and Measures,
   and Bureau of Standards. A very small portion of scientists was
   employed by these divisions. For instance, Dr. Einstein worked as a
   scientist in the patent office in Bern. About 1920, a new pattern was
   born, in which private organizations employed scientists in their
   in-house laboratories to conduct research aimed at the development of
   new products. During World War II, a structure was formed in which
   private companies sharply increased their investments in research and
   development, and the government relied upon their success. In other
   words, private companies cooperated with government entities for
   war-related goals. The Bush Report, interestingly enough, discussed the
   question of the proper ratio of the research in government
   organizations to that of private ones. As will be explained shortly, it
   is widely known that the research and development activities in Japan,
   as compared to other developed countries, are considerably biased
   toward those of private organizations. 6 1.2 The Problem of the
   Allocation of Resources for Research Activities (1) Allocation of
   Funding Sources of Nation for Research and Development A key question
   is the optimal relative contributions of public and private resources
   to a nation's total research and development expenditures.
   International data on the current situation are presented in Figures 1
   and 2. As can be seen, Japan has the world's highest ratio of research
   and development to GDP, as well as a unique pattern of funding sources
   compared with other developed countries. In Japan, private resources
   account for about 80% of total research and development, and government
   investment about 20%. In the United States, government investment in
   the United States is about 30% of the total, and in France, the
   government share is over 40%. Of course, one cannot say what ratio is
   optimal. These patterns are a product of historical accidents rather
   than intentional designs. Therefore, one cannot say, because Japan's
   pattern is unique, that it entails some sort of "imbalance."
   Nevertheless, the unusual Japanese pattern exhibited for many years has
   frequently been a subject of discussion, as a strange example,
   internationally. In this situation, it is possible to recommend
   particular goals, such as to increase the government investment up to
   25% of the all research expenditures over the next ten years. The
   rationale for this recommendation is not clear, but any reason that it
   is not unreasonable cannot be found. To take this example, assume that
   the gross domestic product will increase by 1% every year, and that the
   ratio of research expenditure to GDP will remain at 3%. Then the
   situation in 2009, compared with 1997, would be roughly as shown below.
   Total Research Government Government GDP Research as Share Research
   Share of (trillion yen) Expenditure of GDP Expenditure Research
   (trillion yen) (%) (trillion yen) (%) 1997 505 15.7 3.12 3.20 20.4 2009
   560 17.0 3.03 4.25 25.0 Increasing government expenditure to 4.25
   trillion yen over ten years would require an annual growth rate of
   slightly less than 5%. Of course, it might be necessary to assume that
   private investment in development would decrease from the present
   level. In any event, these figures for 2009 are not unrealistic. This
   recommendation is worth investigating at least as a policy issue. 7 It
   is not our intention to base further discussions on these estimates for
   the year 2009. Considerations of the case wherein the government share
   increases by the amount shown above would be somewhat related to the
   discussions concerning the realistic allocation of resources. We cannot
   avoid having discussions on what would be the purposes for increasing
   the government share. (2) Uses of Government Resources Let us assume
   that the Bush Principle continues to govern practice in Japan. In this
   case, the Science and Technology Basic Law and Basic Plan of Japan will
   be maintained for a considerable time. The government share of support
   for research and development will be decided primarily within the
   framework of using science to improve the level of public welfare
   including the promotion of industries, employment problems, and medical
   care. The government share of support for research and development will
   be based on the principle that research themes will be in accordance
   with government policies. As described above, a major portion of the
   resources should be allocated to advance the national policies, even
   though it is fair to support prototypic scientific research. As a basis
   for discussion on the execution of national policy, it is essential to
   think of the area of roles of a nation needed to function as a nation.
   In the field of research and development based on the Bush Principle,
   there are several fields in which the government cannot rely on local
   governments, private organizations, or individuals. By order of
   priority, these fields are: (1) National security from the standpoint
   of the entire nation (2) International functions of the nation (3)
   Support for the research and development, which is scientifically
   necessary, but is unlikely to be supported by sub-national
   organizations. (4) Support for the development of leading industrial
   technologies (5) Research and development by requests of (part of) the
   public Field (1), "national security," includes the following
   subfields: (i) defense strategies; (ii) the security of essential
   public utilities; (iii) countermeasures against national disasters;
   (iv) the security of energy sources for the stable public life; (v)
   medical science of national interest (e.g., cancers, fatal accidents,
   allergies, incurable diseases, mental disorders, etc.); (vi) health
   systems; (vii) security (including quantity, quality, and safety) of
   the domestic food supply; (viii) crime and terrorism, and (ix) the
   waste treatment. These may be a present-day expression of issues that
   have been within the purview of "historical issues of nation". In the
   past, the list included such items as "enrichment and military
   strength," "development and expansion," and 8 "industrialization." In
   the future, the general goal will be "the promotion of an appreciation
   of values to free ourselves from a large amount of consumption of
   material and energy". Field (2), "international functions," includes
   the sharing of international functions which Japan can be expected to
   assume as a developed country. More specifically, Japan can contribute
   to international co-operation and large-scale research in the following
   subjects: (i) world environmental problems, (ii) support for industrial
   technologies and medical care in developing countries, (iii) space
   development, and (iv) ocean development. Field (3), "research and
   development, which is scientifically necessary, but is unlikely to be
   supported by sub-national organizations," is mainly related to
   prototypic scientific research. Such research should be recognized as a
   part of a wide range of cultural activities. Therefore, such research
   must be balanced with the support for the cultural and social sciences,
   and the arts. Field (4), "leading industrial technologies," includes
   subjects for which the government takes the initiative to promote
   competitiveness and accelerate the maturation of private Japanese
   organizations. Field (5), "requests by the public," includes subjects
   that the citizenry proposes. The subjects include (i) environmental
   problems, (ii) private certification systems for food, medicine, and
   other necessities, and (iii) the construction of viable communities.
   (In the 21st century, research and development in these subjects will
   probably increase as more attention is paid to "citizens" as active
   clients.) Needless to say, these five categories cannot be strictly
   separated. In some cases, research and development, which starts in one
   category, will migrate into other category with the progress of the
   research. In other cases, a single subject of research will span
   several different fields. Regarding government investment in those
   categories, several facts are noteworthy. First, the United States has
   canceled its Superconducting Super Collider (SSC) project, and is now
   concentrating its efforts to striving to lead in the areas of
   information technology, and life-science technology. The fact that
   Japan is behind in these two areas has become a serious problem. In
   light of this situation, Japan must focus its own "strategy" on these
   areas to compete with the United States. However, to adopt this focus
   as a Japanese strategy is only to reveal that Japan has no original
   strategy of its own, but is merely following the United States. Second,
   Japan's future will be greatly influenced by how the Japanese
   government maps out an original strategy and how it directs its science
   and technology policy in the 21st century. In this respect, we believe
   that the Japanese government has not functioned satisfactorily thus
   far. For example, it is rare to observe the Science and Technology
   Agency independently planning, designing, and promoting a science and
   technology policy based on consistent ideas and actively directing the
   policy of the entire government. 9 Moreover, we are concerned with
   several problems. First, even the Agency's own projects were not always
   conducted on the basis of a well-defined agenda. Presumably this
   problem is not limited to the field of science and technology. Similar
   problems exist in any of the other agencies and ministries. Second, it
   is increasingly important for Japan to settle on a "strategy." The
   planning of such a strategy is the very function assigned to the
   General Council for Science and Technology to be renewed at the time of
   the administrative reform. Up to now, the Council for Science and
   Technology has been a consultative organization for the Prime Minister.
   At present, the Council submits reports when asked. The new function,
   i.e., the planning of strategy, which will be added to the newly
   reformed Council, must be given a high priority. Suppose that Japan
   already had an original strategy. Then a question would be what is the
   next step? It is important to realize that Japan does not need to
   follow the strategy of the United States. With regard to national
   security and economic structure, Japan should cooperate with the United
   Stated from the standpoint of mutual dependence. But with regard to
   research and development, we are free to do something other than follow
   in the footsteps of the United States. We should have a flexible
   attitude and sometimes select a course different from that of the
   United States or a course supplementary to the United States. From both
   the theoretical and practical points of view, in information technology
   and life science and technology, the fields of which the United States
   is in the lead, Japan has many possibilities of developing a prosperous
   future. Thus, it is quite natural that research and development in
   these fields attract much attention, and there is no reason not to
   highlight these fields as a matter of policy. These fields indeed have
   a bright future. This is because research in the fields is expected to
   be so fruitful as to open up a new field of knowledge beyond fully
   established sciences, and to contribute greatly to the happiness of
   humankind, now and in the future. Choosing the independent course
   mentioned above is not because Japan intends, for some "strategic"
   reason, to avoid a position subordinate to the United States. From the
   standpoint of urgency and fundamental importance, energy technology
   simply cannot compete with life sciences and technology, and
   information technology as a short-range priority. However, for the long
   term, continuous and stable progress of mankind, clearly energy
   technology has a fundamental importance. Moreover, private
   organizations are investing actively in the areas of genome research
   and technologies related to computers and networking, and recently this
   activity has becoming more prominent. Therefore, the need for
   government support in these fields should be discussed and evaluated
   from the viewpoint of sharing the roles of government and private
   organizations. Now is time for Japan to have a reasonable share in the
   progress of knowledge. For instance, in "the Subaru project",
   remarkable results have already been obtained at a preliminary stage of
   the research. And "the Reizer 10 drilling-ship project", Japan is
   expected to play a major role for the hardware construction and
   management of the project as a contribution to "the Ocean Drilling
   Program (ODP)". Many Japanese researchers have achieved various kinds
   of success in science using the facilities and equipment of other
   countries. However, we have few such cases in which Japan has invested
   in the facilities and systems to attract researchers of the world and
   that the outcomes obtained using the facilities and systems contributed
   to enrich the intellectual properties of mankind beyond the boundaries
   of Japan. In fact, for the past ten years, the Ministry of Education
   and the Science and Technology Agency have put forward a plan named
   "Centers of Excellence" (COE). The main idea is to develop research
   sites of the highest quality, similar to the National Institutes of
   Health (NIH) in the United States. As currently designed, however, COE
   would be built on the basis of "Comparison and Equality." In this case
   we do not think we can have true COE. It may be adequate for Japan to
   have several research sites where researchers of the world can devote
   themselves to their research with ample time and funds, being
   unconscious of direct propagative effects of the results of their
   research over industries and economy. The installations and effective
   uses of the facilities would result in giving remarkable contributions
   to the international society by providing the world with open research
   sites and by accumulating intellectual properties of mankind under the
   leadership of Japan. (3) Principles of the Allocation of Government
   Research Funds In the beginning of the previous section, we listed five
   research categories that merit government support. Except for field (3)
   (research and development which is scientifically necessary, but is
   unlikely to be supported by sub-national organizations), the allocation
   of funds to each field and within each field should be guided by the
   following two principles. First, allocations within each field should
   be based on a well-defined government policy. Second, competition
   between and among the fields should be discouraged. This applies with
   special force between fields (1) and (2), on one side, and field (3),
   on the other. Regarding field (3), priorities should be decided by a
   peer-review process conducted by the Science Council of Japan or a
   similar organization. As a basic rule, policy considerations should not
   be introduced into decision-making. As discussed above in the section
   1.2 (1) "Allocation of Funding Sources of Nation for Research and
   Development," we assume that the government's contribution rises. The
   question then arises as to which category the increment should be
   allocated. Also, the allocation among these categories is the most
   difficult policy issue. At this point, we have to recognize that there
   are no grounds on which we can choose a rational allocation. One
   possibility would be to simply modify funding for each category based
   on the present allocation. Unfortunately, since no data are available
   in which the expenditures of research and development were categorized
   in the manner shown above, even this simple approach is problematic.
   Figure 3 shows data arranged in categories somewhat similar to the 11
   categories above. Based on these data, rough estimates can be made of
   the present allocation of government funding into the categories above:
   (1) 52 % (2) 13 % (3) 13 % (4) 22 % (5) 0 % It is no wonder that there
   is a current lack of funding for category (5). There are various views
   on this ratio, which is simply due to the result of historical
   coincidence. To change the balance of funds for this category,
   allocations to other categories might be reduced in accordance with
   several possible rationales. For instance, category (4) could be
   reduced since there are currently incentives to promote research and
   development in this category by private organizations, and the
   government should not intervene in the activities of private
   organizations. It is suggested here that the allocation to category (4)
   could simply be set at the same level as category (2) or (3). If the
   ratio of the category (1) were left unchanged, and if categories (2)
   and (3) were increased slightly, the following allocation might result:
   (1) 52% (2) 15% (3) 15% (4) 15% (5) 3% Once again, it should be
   stressed that there are no rational grounds supporting this allocation.
   Conversely, there are no grounds to call the allocation irrational. In
   view of this, the ratios proposed above should be discussed extensively
   in various fora, e.g., the Science Council of Japan and the Federation
   of Economic Organizations. The following points merit re-emphasis.
   First, after the allocation of funds to each category has been decided,
   then it is possible to discuss allocations, based on explicit policies,
   within the categories. Second, explicit policies will tend to minimize
   random allocations and forestall useless opposition or unnecessary
   competition, both of which are seen in funding discussions for projects
   belonging to the different categories. Such projects are exemplified by
   the prototypic scientific research and the research and development
   needed to construct national infrastructure. At this point, in deciding
   the allocation or in discussing policy issues, it should be added that,
   whereas in the past, science research was conducted in a close space
   occupied by specific scientists who are directly associated with the
   research, now research is becoming more open and socialized. We think
   that, in the future, this openness should increase, for the following
   reasons. First, government support for research activities is at the
   expense of individual, tax-paying citizens. Second, the fruits of
   research have direct or indirect influences on the social 12 lives of
   the people. The results of scientific research can be seen in many
   facets of society. Research is closely related to social and political
   problems, as well as to problems of foreign affairs, defense, and
   medicare. It is necessary for the government to share with the people
   its visions regarding what research should be undertaken, what problems
   are involved with the research, and what questions and issues can be
   enlightened. With the power to choose come responsibilities. On the
   side of the people, it is needed for the people to have acute sights to
   perceive the fascinations and advantages of science and technology and
   such potential risks experienced with nuclear physics research, which
   furnished nuclear weapons, and to have sound judgements concerning
   these matters. This also goes with responsibilities. The acuteness and
   soundness should be in relation with human society. In this sense, it
   is important to give a basic science education to those who aim to go
   into non-scientific, non-technical fields in an educational course
   ranging from elementary to higher education. It is also important to
   educate those who would like to have jobs in the fields of science and
   technology for obtaining a basic knowledge on society and mankind.
   Hopefully, the people have deep concern with and consciousness of
   science and technology as fields having profound daily influences on
   individual and society and, moreover, the future of mankind. The
   following should be fully recognized: The government and administration
   have responsibilities on the visions which they showed. On the side of
   the people, similarly, an individual person has responsibility for his
   or her judgement in a sense that the judgement could have an influence
   on the direction of national science research and, in turn, on what the
   society and economy of Japan should be in his or her day and in the
   coming days. For advancing scientific research, particularly, the
   project-type research supported by the government, it is important to
   repeatedly evaluate the research results. The evaluations include
   pre-initiation, post-completion, and interim- assessment of long-term
   research. Since project-type research is generally performed by
   investing large amounts of money, strict and multiple evaluations are
   justified. The evaluation criteria include the adequacy of the targets,
   the chances for success, whether progress is continuing, the effects,
   positive or negative, on society when the fruits of the research are
   utilized, and the magnitude of the effects. In addition to the
   evaluation by scientific peers, it may be necessary to include others
   in the evaluation. More specifically, the people are investors in the
   research, who have a stake in the success or failure. At present,
   however, more efforts are needed to improve this situation, though it
   might be a general problem of science and technology in Japan.
   Moreover, risk assessments are also important. In international
   projects there are other sources of uncertainly, including the
   withdrawal of foreign participants and a change in people's interest
   which may result in changes of project targets. This has been the case
   in some past projects. In international projects, therefore, the
   research should be reviewed at least once every few years, with the
   projects viewed as investments carrying risks, and with the
   understanding that original plans may need to be changed. In the worst
   case, projects might be discontinued. 13 1.3 Allocation of Resources
   for ITER It is beyond the function of this Committee to discuss
   conclusively the ITER project. However, it is possible to touch upon
   the fundamental points of this issue in conjunction with discussions
   given in the previous sections. In section 1.2 (2) above, five
   categories of research that the government should support were listed.
   Support for ITER falls in the two, highest priority categories, (1)
   National security and (2) International functions. Support for ITER
   also bears to a lessor extend on category (3), (3) Research and
   development, which is scientifically necessary, but is unlikely to be
   supported by sub-national organizations. ITER is expected to play a
   role as the first step in securing a long-term energy source for Japan,
   that is, in insuring the security of energy for resource- scarce Japan.
   The ITER project cannot be carried out by private organizations for the
   following reasons. First, the project entails advanced technologies and
   further progress can be realized only through the construction of
   large-scale and enormously expensive research facilities. In fact, the
   huge expense is one reason the project is a candidate for international
   co-operation. Second, the project falls within the domain of nuclear
   fusion. This is a field for which Japan is able to play a leading role.
   The ITER project is of large scientific significance. Even if the ITER
   project does not entail prototypic scientific research, it still is
   significant within the framework set out by Dr. Bush. The Subaru
   project, by contrast, is one entailing largely pure prototypic
   research. It is a typical example of a project belonging to category
   (3). The project was first discussed in the Science Council of Japan as
   a researcher-initiative plan and, then, decision-making was performed
   on the basis of a peer-review of the Council. The project gained added
   support because it was recognized for its secondary importance in
   category (2). As a result, the project was finally approved as a
   national project. In contrast to the Subaru project, the final goal of
   fusion projects including the ITER project is to construct a commercial
   reactor, the "thermonuclear fusion reactor." Still, ITER would be an
   experimental reactor, and would serve as only one step in a series of
   steps, which eventually would include prototype and demonstration
   reactors. ITER could be widely shared and used by researchers
   affiliated with universities and other organizations to conduct
   research on burning plasma and studies of extreme conditions. Thus,
   there would be a large potential to advance knowledge and information
   in the fields of physics, including plasma physics and material
   science. Therefore, there is every reason to expect ITER to have great
   scientific significance. 14 However, one should not ignore the fact
   that the ITER project is one of energy development. In that sense, the
   pre-, post-, and interim- evaluations and the risk assessments should
   be regarded as the essential parts of government- supported projects,
   rather than mere administrative procedures. In this respect, the
   administration and those who are related to fusion projects should
   remain mindful of public criticism. The ITER project is only one part
   of a larger program to develop nuclear fusion. The government expects
   that many years will be needed to complete the research on this
   ultimate source of energy. It is indispensable that the public
   understands this long-term nature of the project. An examination of the
   progress made so far reveals the following. First, actual achievements
   have diverged from the targets set originally for the construction of
   an experimental reactor and a prototype reactor. It is unavoidable that
   the public would feel disappointed. If ITER were built, we expect
   results sufficient to improve public attitudes toward this type of
   research, and earnest efforts of the researchers to gain public
   understanding, provided the public is shown signs of progress. Toward
   this end, the researchers must understand what was wrong with the past
   efforts and make full use of lessons learned from the past in future
   activities. If the ITER project proceeds, certain points should be
   considered. Since these points have been already discussed in other
   special fields, we would like to mention them only very briefly. First,
   there are problems related to materials. ITER, i.e., an experimental
   reactor, does not present the problems, but a prototype, demonstration,
   and commercial reactor, all of which follow the experimental reactor,
   will encounter the problem of severe neutron irradiation. As a
   consequence, the structural materials of the reactors are
   radioactivated and tend to become brittle. This will produce a large
   amount of radioactive waste material and frequent replacement of the
   materials. This will tend to increase operating costs. Regarding the
   plasma-facing first wall, which will be under excessively severe
   conditions, but reportedly, candidate materials have already been
   found, the development of low activation materials should be conducted
   steadily toward the development of a demonstration reactor and later.
   Second, there are issues related to safety. Out of necessity, careful
   attention was paid to the safety of ITER during its design, with
   special attention to the following points. First, ITER has a large
   amount of a radioactive substance named tritium. Second, a considerable
   amount of high-energy neutrons are produced. Third, ITER is a
   large-scale fusion machine to produce a large amount of energy by a
   thermonuclear fusion reaction, which mankind has never handled before.
   The third issue is the professional people who can play a leading role
   in the management, scientific and technical areas of the international
   project such as ITER. If Japan is to play a leading role, it must start
   training personnel able to play this role. 15 Finally, it is important
   to consider the resource allocation for the ITER project on the basis
   of historical context. Japan succeeded in strengthening her industrial
   competitiveness by assiduously gathering scientific and technological
   knowledge and information from Europe and America. By this means, Japan
   achieved its present prosperity as a trading country in a favorable
   international environment. The environment comprised both an economic
   system based on free trade, and a well functioning security system,
   both of which were built by Europe and America. As a consequence, it
   can be said that Japan is indebted to those countries and is obligated
   to repay this debt. This is the reason why the Subaru project was
   accepted as a national project. For the research in the field of
   nuclear fusion, Japan has a high valuation in the world and seems to
   have obtained the international right to speak on the research. The
   ITER project will provide the best opportunity to fulfil Japan's
   responsibility for such intentional co-operations. 16 2. Sharing of
   Responsibilities in International Co-operations 2.1 Incentives of
   Conducting International Co-operations Research and projects can be
   advanced by international co-operations in the field of science and
   technology. We can list the main incentives for the co- operations as
   follows. First, the basic problem of finite natural resources must be
   solved if mankind is to achieve sustainable development. The problem is
   global in nature. All of mankind faces this problem, and a global
   effort is needed to solve the problem. Thus, the nature of the problem
   calls for international co- operations. Second, it is well understood
   that more of mankind could enjoy the fruits of science and technology.
   But present scientific research often requires large-scale investment.
   The fruits of this scientific research are international common
   properties. There is an increased need to cope with the research by the
   international co-operations. The co-operation is needed to pay expenses
   proportional to the benefits. Recently, certain trends are emerging.
   First, due to the rapid progress of science and technology, it is
   rather difficult for any one country to be a leader in all fields of
   science and technology. Yet, often progress in one area requires
   technology from many fields. It follows that each country should have
   outstanding research fields to contribute, in order not only to use
   effectively the worldwide potentials, but also to make the global
   progress in science and technology. International co-operations will
   inevitably entail first-line scientists by giving increased
   opportunities for the exchange of views and the intellectual
   stimulation by discussions. More such opportunities increase chances of
   advancing science and technology. Second, recent scientific research
   requires a vast amount of investment to construct a large-scale and
   high-grade infrastructure. This can be seen in the field of space
   programs and accelerator sciences. In addition, the developed countries
   that play a major role in science research are constantly suffering
   from a low economic growth rate. In future, we cannot expect to have an
   economic growth rate of two figures. As a consequence of slow economic
   growth, a substantial increase of tax revenue cannot be expected. In
   general, any country has political groups that strongly oppose
   increases in government expenditures. This serves to impede investment.
   Furthermore, the aging of national populations and the demands for
   fully supported welfare will make financial constraints on scientific
   research even more severe in the future. Under these circumstances,
   interested countries must share the cost of scientific research. 2.2
   Types of International Co-operation in Scientific Researches There are
   several different types of international co-operation in science 17
   research. One type is exemplified by the genome research. In this case,
   each country is conducting its own research with relative freedom, and
   their activities are only loosely connected between countries. The
   second type is seen in the field of accelerators. One country takes the
   initiative and builds a large-scale core facility, but allows other
   countries to join in as members. The third type is the case wherein
   there is a general interchange of research and a wide exchange of
   information. These types of co-operations vary, depending upon the
   contents of the research. Sometimes the activities are centralized, and
   sometimes they are decentralized. We can have different types of
   co-operation when we widen our view from individual projects to science
   research in specific areas. In the development of nuclear fusion, for
   example, one country plays a leadership in the field of plasma physics.
   Another country plays a leading role in the field of reactor
   engineering. Further, a different country plays a leading role in the
   construction, operation and exploitation of large-scale facility.
   Furthermore, taking an even wider perspective, beyond scientific
   research in specific areas to the whole scientific research, we see
   from an examination of micro-scale research activities of each country
   that although the country takes charge of the domestic research.
   Nevertheless, a type of international co-operation is formed. This may
   be a case wherein each country displays a leadership in the strongest
   field of the scientific research. As an example, the United States
   leads the space program and, on the contrary, Europe leads accelerator
   science. 2.3 Sharing of Responsibilities in International Co-operations
   In this section we can consider scientific, technical, financial, and
   management sharing of responsibilities. When we widen our views on
   research, as shown in the preceding section, we have a case that a
   country exhibits leadership in one field of scientific research and
   undertakes almost all other fields, including research, funding, and
   project management. From the broad point of view, this may be
   considered to form a type of responsibility sharing in international
   co-operation. In almost all cases of scientific research projects which
   are carried out under international co-operation, any country joining a
   project contributes to almost all components of the project, including
   scientific research, funding, and project management. The only
   difference may be the extent of the contribution. A question naturally
   arises. What kinds of contributions should be made, and to what extent?
   Unfortunately, there is no generalized principle applicable for all
   international scientific research projects. The method and extent of
   contributions varies from country to country. There is no one single
   form of international scientific research co-operation. However we can
   discern certain general forms, depending on the type and the nature of
   the research. Actually, 18 the appropriate form is determined by
   various factors, including the level of enthusiasm in each country, and
   economic power and political power. Even if the resulting type is less
   than ideal, it is worthwhile to consider what type of responsibility
   sharing should be selected, depending on the type of scientific
   research project. As one possible approach, it would be helpful to
   examine the type of responsibility sharing in actual cases of
   scientific research projects. First, let us consider the centralized
   project where research activities are mostly concentrated in a leading
   country. Representative examples include the International Space
   Station program, Large Hadron Collider (LHC) project of the European
   Organization for Nuclear Physics (CERN), the European Synchrotron
   Radiation Facility (ESRF), and the Neutron Reactor of the Institute
   Laue-Langevin (ILL). Examinations of these cases reveal large
   differences among them in the types of responsibility sharing, in
   particular between the International Space Station program and other
   European projects. Regarding the International Space Station project,
   an international scientific research project in which the United
   States, European countries, Japan, Russia, and Canada are working
   co-operatively, the United States carries a large share of the
   responsibility. The United States provides a major portion of the cost.
   On the technical side, the contributions of countries other than the
   United States are limited to the development of modules, which they are
   in charge, and a portion of equipment and units. For its part, the
   United States plays a major role in the development of technical
   concepts and systems for the entire space station. In addition, the
   United States plays a leadership role in unifying the whole system,
   including planning and co-ordination of the whole project, management,
   adjustment of procurements, and the system integration including
   modules developed by other member countries. The proper use of the
   space station, the assignment of boarding opportunities, and the
   allocation of resources for the use of the station are based on the
   contribution of each participating country in providing the modular
   equipment. The United States contributes the most and enjoys the
   largest share of the benefits. In the case of CERN, an international
   facility, members include about twenty European countries, while Japan
   and the United States are observers. Apparently, the sharing of
   responsibilities among the European member countries is decided either
   on the principle of the equal contribution, or the principle of the
   contribution corresponding to the national power. The allocation of the
   CERN funds is in proportional to the national income of each member
   country. Germany offers the largest contribution, with a share of
   slightly more than 20%. This percentage is considerably lower than that
   of the United Stares in the International Space Station program. For
   the scientific research and project management of CERN, the council
   plays a major role as the highest decision-making body, but voting is
   on the basis of one vote per country. The director of CERN is selected
   by the council using the forgoing procedures, and entrusted with full
   power. The ESRF was established based on the municipal law of France.
   It has about ten member countries with official contracts. Several
   other countries join as scientific partners. The type of its
   responsibility sharing basically resembles 19 that of the CERN. A board
   of directors decides important policy issues. The issues include
   personnel administration, financial issues, programs of scientific
   research, and the like. The board is composed of representatives of
   each member company, the number of which is not more than three. They
   employ a voting method of one vote per person. Motions must either be
   unanimous or have a two-third majority, depending upon the issue. This
   indicates that no single country has a major share of the
   responsibilities. The sharing of funds is similar to that of CERN, but
   France, the hosting country, offers a contribution slightly higher than
   other member countries do. It should be noted that France has a
   so-called add-on share by furnishing land, buildings, education of
   children of other member countries, and so on. Finally, there is the
   case of the Joint European Torus (JET). This is another case wherein
   the hosting country, the United Kingdom, supplies an add-on fund. A
   review of the various cases indicates that responsibility sharing
   differs greatly even within the category of centralized projects. The
   types include a type in which a country bears almost all the
   responsibilities, a type in which responsibilities are shared equally
   among the member countries, and a type in which responsibilities are
   shared based on the national power of each member country. In the case
   of the International Space Station program, the United States
   originally proposed the program with much enthusiasm. The program was
   launched in a form in which the member countries followed the United
   States. For reasons of national security, both the United States and
   Soviet Union made tremendous investments in space development such as
   the Apollo project during the Cold War, and provided researchers and
   engineers with various opportunities for the development of space
   technologies. As a result the United States became exceedingly superior
   to other countries in those aspects. Russia, on the other hand, placed
   efforts on space development to compete with the United States and
   attained a technological level comparable to that of the United States.
   However, Russia was practically defeated in the Cold War. For this
   reason, Russia had an economy having no surplus for such investments.
   Due to these circumstances and the technological ambitions of the
   United States, the United States became the sole country that was able
   to propose the International Space Station program, a large-scale
   international space development project. It was able to play a leading
   role in the areas of funding, technology, and project management. With
   respect to project funds, the United States used funds appropriated
   during the Cold War and shifted them toward the space development
   program, and was able to do so even though it was in a poor financial
   condition. In addition, the United States had the political will to
   symbolically show the end the Cold War by co-operating with Russia in
   scientific and technological researches on a large scale. With the
   exception of international scientific research projects for which a
   country has a strong incentive to drive for some reasons and in which a
   country makes investment for its fate and prestige for such reasons as
   national security, international scientific research projects usually
   attract much concern of a variety 20 of researchers of many countries.
   Regarding international scientific research projects which provide only
   civil applications, we consider that the type employed by CERN and ESRF
   furnish a common type of responsibility share. In the case of ESRF, as
   described above, France, the host country, has an add-on share by
   making a special contribution in the areas of fund sharing and other
   supporting activities. In centralized international scientific
   research, it is very important to consider how the responsibility is
   shared between the host country and non-host countries. For a study of
   this problem, the discussions conducted by the Mega-science forum of
   OECD/CSTP (the Organization for Economic Co-operation and
   Development/The Committee of Science and Technology Policy) should be
   referred to. The CSTP had broad discussions on the various problems
   related to Mega-science, and analyzed the effects of hosting
   international scientific research facilities. The discussions cannot be
   quoted in detail. The CSTP analyzed the benefits, which the host
   country enjoys, and the disadvantages, which it suffers. The results
   are summarized in the following table: Benefits and Disadvantages of
   Hosting Category Potential benefit Potential disadvantage Political *
   Prestige * Increased difficulty of * Management control withdrawal
   Economic * Effects of salary spending and tax revenue * Hosting premium
   * Regional development * Creation of infrastructure * Reduced travel
   costs * Decommissioning/closure cost Industrial * Contracting to local
   industry * Displacement from other economic * Improved technology in
   industry activities * Technological spin-off Scientific * Creation of
   COE (Center Of Excellence) * Opportunity cost to national * Ease of
   access program * Return from critical mass Employment & * Local
   administration and maintenance * Possible salary difference Skills
   staff * Opportunity cost to employment * Higher proportion of national
   scientific * Skills/expertise left over when staff facility closes *
   Prevention of brain drain * Training  PhDs, Tech., Eng. Cultural *
   European/international school * Science education/public understanding
   Environmental * Sustainable development/green policies * Destruction of
   greenfield site * Nuclear concerns Mega- science Forum, Policy Issues
   (OECD, 1995) 21 The CSTP indicates simply that the host country should
   pay careful attention to establishing a mechanism to maintain the
   balance of benefits and disadvantages, which will be brought to the
   country by hosting the project. The above indications suggest certain
   implications for the consideration of responsibility sharing in the
   international co-operation of scientific research. In the table above,
   management control, hosting premium, and creation of infrastructure are
   considered to be related to the means for responsibility sharing.
   Regarding the responsibility share, it can be easily seen that the host
   country has both potential benefits and potential disadvantages. The
   means for responsibility sharing is not limited to the items shown
   above. It also includes the offer of services needed for a smooth
   management of a project. In the case of international scientific
   research entailing the construction of a large-scale facility, it is
   inevitable to have contacts with local agencies handling various
   regulations and residents in the neighborhood of the facilities. This
   is true even in the case that the project is carried out mainly by an
   international organization or a corporate one established according to
   the municipal law of the host country. For such local dealings, advice
   from the host country is necessary. In addition, great care is needed
   in various fields such as education and welfare of the visiting
   researchers and engineers and their families. For these functions,
   needless to say, the host country is the only country that can furnish
   this help, and it must do its duty. The responsibility share in the
   international scientific research co-operation is considered to be a
   part of elements handled from the view point of benefits and
   disadvantages and the share is correlated with many other benefits and
   disadvantages. Thus, it may be rational to consider that the means for
   responsibility share have relatively strong correlation with each
   other. For the responsibility share which is most likely decided by
   discussions conducted in an international negotiation where the claims
   of countries collide, each country recognizes the sharing to be
   relatively flexible. For other benefits and disadvantages, each country
   has a tendency to grasp the benefits and disadvantages as relatively
   definite ones, even though it is hard to estimate quantitatively the
   extent of the benefits and disadvantages. In the case that an add-on
   portion of responsibility share called "hosting premium" becomes
   substantial, it is natural for the host country to demand "management
   control", the extent of which is corresponding to that of the add-on
   portion. In the case of ESRF, actually, they changed their voting
   method from the one vote per one country method to a method in which
   the contribution of funds is reflected in a decision making. The CSTP
   considers this a prudent approach, which respects the large amount of
   financial burden carried by leading member countries of a Mega-science
   project. In reality, the problems related to the responsibility share
   are more complex, even if we grasp the perceived benefits and
   disadvantages with which each country does not entrust to an
   international discussion, as relatively definite ones. As shown above,
   it is relatively difficult to make a quantitative estimation for many
   of such benefits and disadvantages. Moreover, there exists a chance to
   include a subjective judgement for their valuations. The problems are
   usually resolved through such a process that a type of responsibility
   share is converged to a 22 form by collecting the images of benefits
   and disadvantages consciously or unconsciously. Therefore, it is hard
   to accurately predict a final form of responsibility share, even if the
   opinion of the host country is close to those of other countries. We
   would like to consider the ways of responsibility share in the
   international co-operation for decentralized international scientific
   research projects. The projects are exemplified by the international
   co-operation of scientific researches in the fields of the genome and
   global change. In these projects, a large amount of funds are needed,
   but the projects are quite different from the centralized projects in
   the points shown below: not much is required to fix the working
   schedule of each country in a time table of the project and to advance
   along a straight line to the final target. Even if the extent of
   contribution of each country is slightly changed for various reasons,
   including the changes of project environments, changes of concerns of
   the project, and financial problems, the progress of the project is not
   much disturbed. This is quite contrary to centralized projects.
   Needless to say, these changes may give troubles to other member
   countries. In the decentralized co-operation of international
   scientific researches, the funds which member countries should
   contribute give almost no problems to be discussed, because of the
   characteristic of the researches. Moreover, we see very few cases where
   the ratio of fund share of each country is strictly fixed by an
   international promise. In the centralized project, on the contrary, the
   fund sharing becomes a large problem. In the decentralized
   international co-operation of scientific researches, we understand that
   the interested countries make fund contributing to a permissible
   extent, depending on changeable factors. They include the social and
   economic environments, the financial conditions, and the degrees of
   concerns for the projects. Concerning the project management, a
   centralized international co- operation of scientific research has a
   project manager at the site to conduct daily management and
   supervision. The activities of the decentralized co-operation are
   performed basically inside each country. They construct databases and
   interchange information through networks. For various co-ordinations
   and progress management it is sufficient if they conduct the
   co-ordinations and management in a timely manner wherever they are
   necessary. Regarding these who are in charge of co-ordinations and
   progress management in the centralized project, there are many cases
   that some people exhibit considerable leadership. In the decentralized
   international co-operation we have many cases that each country
   concerned plays a certain role. In this type of co-operation, needless
   to say, each country does not have such responsibilities that the host
   country inevitably takes in the centralized international co-operation.
   Presumably, therefore, the case in which the type of responsibility
   share becomes an important issue is mainly for the centralized project.
   Regarding the responsibility share for this case, the points of the
   foregoing discussions can be summarized as follows. The extent of
   responsibility share is decided on the basis of the benefits and
   disadvantages which the host country receives and the extent is partly
   settled as a product of compromise in international negotiations. Thus
   we can perform only some considerations for the type and extent of
   responsibility share on the basis of the cases of past projects and the
   specific situations of each 23 project. However, we should not give up
   efforts to pursue the type suited for the responsibility share in a
   project of international scientific research. We are requested to make
   an analysis as precisely as possible. For the analysis of benefits and
   disadvantages we have factors which are possible to handle
   quantitatively and which are almost impossible to handle
   quantitatively. The former factors include the spreading effect of
   economy and the latter ones are exemplified by the increase of national
   prestige and the deepening of public understanding on science and
   technology. For the factors for which we can conduct quantitative
   evaluations, we should place good efforts for the evaluations. For the
   factors for which quantitative evaluations are also impossible to
   perform we should evaluate the factors seriously to grasp the extent of
   both positive and negative effects, even if the results of the
   evaluations become qualitative. In relation to the benefits and
   disadvantages we should discuss how to combine the following various
   factors for responsibility share based on the characteristics of the
   project, the scientific research potential of each country, and the
   conditions of each country, and the situation of the research site. The
   factors include the extent of add-on funds contribution of the host
   country, the preparation of infrastructures, leadership in project
   management, and specific services which the host country can furnish.
   We would like to point out that the responsibility share of
   international co-operation contains facts which cannot be predicted
   from the sole standpoint of benefits and disadvantages. Let us consider
   the international co-operation to resolve the problems related to
   global warming, a problem common for humankind. If the co-operation is
   successful, all of mankind can enjoy various benefits, including
   ensuring the security of living for people who reside in an area that
   may be under a sea level as a result of the global warming, and to
   support a stable supply of food in the world by preventing a decrease
   of crop yield which is caused by the global warming and the climate
   variation of the earth, and to prevent the disorder of a balance in
   ecological system. Concerning the international co-operation shown by
   this example, all of mankind as well as our country can enjoy the
   fruits of the project, if our country joins the project. In that sense
   the benefits and disadvantages arising from this sort of project cannot
   be treated uniformly as the benefits and disadvantages with a narrow
   scope which takes account only of the benefits and disadvantages for
   our country. Instead we should have room to think of a moralistic
   motivation for Japan to play a role suitable to her position as an
   advanced country in science and technology. Finally, we would like to
   study the responsibility share for the international thermonuclear
   experimental reactor (ITER) as a model case of an international
   scientific research project. Regarding this project the benefits and
   disadvantages of the host country are summarized in the following
   table. The table is based on the report of the CSTP. The benefits,
   which the host country can enjoy, seem to be quite substantial. We
   cannot believe so unconditionally unless we fully examine various
   factors such as the extent of "burden of larger cost" and "burden for
   site preparation", and the degree of " initiative in international
   joint enterprise". 24 Benefits and Disadvantages of Hosting in ITER
   Project Category Benefit Disadvantage Science-technology Major role in
   specific scientific and technological Increased difficulty of Policy
   fields (U.S. Space station; EU: LHC) withdrawal Initiative in
   international joint enterprise Possible salary * Worldwide COE (Center
   of Excellence) differentials for scientists * Getting rid of catch-up
   of joint enterprise and engineers * Learning of implementation Surplus
   of technological * Promoter for the security of global environment and
   professional Prevention of brain drain knowledge after the Core site of
   information network closure of facilities Significance in the history
   of science and Decrease of international technology; to be stated as
   "Japan is in the first credibility due to the place in nuclear fusion"
   change of the national Science education/public understanding
   acceptability, interfering with the progress of the joint enterprise.
   Development of Initiative of administration of ITER project *
   Responsibility for the nuclear fusion * Extension of participating
   chances for domestic disposition of waste researchers; extension of the
   basis for the study on the education of human talents * Cultivation of
   the basis for independent development of nuclear-fusion energy
   Initiative for the concept of safety design of nuclear fusion * The
   concept of safety design based on Japan's safety culture leads a
   fundamental direction in the safety of a future nuclear fusion reactor
   Ease of access Energy and Security of long-term energy with low
   Problems related to the environment environmental effects and high
   specific safety radiation treatment Sustainable development/green
   policies Japan's initiative for the insurance of humankind Economic
   aspect Economic benefits due to domestic procurement * Burden of larger
   cost * Orders are placed mainly to the host country * Burden for site
   especially during the period of operation preparation Extension of
   employment opportunity Reduction of travel costs Industrial aspect
   Spin-off and technology transfer of high Displacement of other
   technology economic activities Promotion of industrial technology *
   Transmission of technology through successive orders and technological
   base of independent development Cultural aspect Promotion of the chance
   of international interchange * Daily cultural interchange with local
   residents * Introduction of Japanese culture by foreigners 25 The
   construction cost of ITER was estimated to be about half of that of the
   original estimate. Even so, a total construction cost of the main
   hardware exceeds 400 billion yen, with the inclusion of the cost for
   supplemental facilities; a total investment of about 500 billion yen
   would be needed. Issues were often presented to justify such a vast
   investment. A report prepared by the ITER Special Working Group in
   January this year shows that discussions were put forward in the
   direction that the host party had more shares than the non-host parties
   for the construction cost of ITER. The future discussions most likely
   will talk about whether or not the concrete amount of Japan's share is
   high, low, or reasonable. As described above, the share may be closely
   related to the responsibility of leading the project and other
   responsibilities. More detailed discussions will be needed to decide
   the extent of share in relation to the various benefits and
   disadvantages arising from hosting the project. Moreover we cannot
   disregard factors motivated by a moralistic point of view. These
   factors include the contribution to the welfare of humankind, even
   though the contribution cannot be measured by a scale of benefits and
   disadvantages for Japan. A final judgement of its value will be done by
   policy decision. For the preparation of the forthcoming discussions
   relative to the concrete amount of share it is required to analyze the
   merits and demerits shown in the table in a more subdivided form. In
   that sense, although we do not think that the quantification of the
   factors is possible, at present the following various analyses are
   being conducted and the activities should be evaluated: analyses
   related to the values of energy policy such as the forecast of demands
   and supplies of long-term energy of Japan and the feasibility studies
   of alternative energy, analyses of the promotion of public
   understanding and recognition and the accumulation of experiences in
   the field of science and technology. The followings may be repeated in
   part. The ITER project is a project, which responds to the most basic
   need of people, that is, the security from the standpoint of the entire
   nation. The project has many varieties of possibilities to return the
   past debts which Japan owed European countries and the United States,
   to positively contribute to a continued development of economic society
   of the world, and to help improving the welfare of people of the next
   generation. The project provides a chance to exhibit the moralistic
   spirits of our people, which are beyond the generation. In order to
   judge the rights and wrongs of hosting ITER, we should discuss the
   project from many different view points, not only the resource
   allocations of the research, share responsibility of international
   co-operation, but also whether or not nuclear fusion has the
   significance of existence in future as a long-term energy supply and
   demand, and whether or not fusion energy is technically feasible. Since
   we did not study the project from those points, we would like to
   refrain from presenting any opinions on the rights and wrongs of
   hosting the project. We expect the Special Committee on the ITER
   Project to make an adequate judgement on hosting ITER through
   discussions on the points described above. 26 Japan Japan(Natural
   Science) US Germany France United Kingdom EU (FY) Notes: 1. For the
   purpose of international comparison the research expenditure of each
   country includes the expenditures in the fields of cultural and social
   science. 2. Starting 1996, the software industry is added as an object
   of expenditure survey. 3. The values shown for the United States are
   for the calendar year. After 1998 the values are provisional ones. 4.
   The 1998 values of Germany are estimates and the 1998 values of France
   are provisional ones. 5. The values of EU are estimates of Eurostat.
   Source: Annual Report of the Promotion of Science and Technology, 1999
   Figure 1 Annual Profile of the Ratio of Research Expenditure to Gross
   Domestic Product for Selected Countries 27 (1) Financing Nations (FY)
   Government Private sector Abroad Japan (1998) Japan (1998) (natural
   science only) Japan (1998) (full-time based estimates) US(1999)
   Germany(1998) France(1998) United Kingdom(1998) EU(1997) Notes: 1. Each
   country includes cultural and social science. 2. A share other than
   government and foreign organizations is assumed to be shares of private
   organizations. 3. The values of the United States and France are
   provisional values of the calendar year and the values of Germany and
   EU are estimates. (2) Performance Government Nations(year) research
   institutes Private Universities Industries research institutes Japan
   (1998) Japan (1998) (natural science only) Japan (1998) (full-time
   based estimates) US(1999) Germany(1998) France(1998) United
   Kingdom(1998) Notes: EU(1997) 1. Each country includes cultural and
   social science. 2. The values of the United States and France are
   provisional values of the calendar year. The values of Germany and EU
   are estimates. For Germany the research expenditures of private
   research organizations are included in those of Source: Annual Report
   of the Promotion of Science and Technology, 1999 Figure 2 R&D
   Expenditures Financing and Performance Sector in Selected Countries 28
   Figure 3 Government Budget of Japan (Units %) Disaster Prevention,
   Others Living Environment, 13 % Social Infrastructure 2 % Health, Life
   Science 28 % Food Science 2 % Earth Science, Natural Environment, 5 %
   Ocean Science Energy, Development 6 % of Resources Information, 7 %
   Electronics 15 % Materials Space Development 8 % 14 % Development of
   Atomic Power Source: Survey regarding the strategic promotion of
   science and technology A survey report on the expenditure for science
   promotion,1997 Figure 3 Government Budget of Japan 29 Committee on the
   Allocation of Resources for Research and the Sharing of
   Responsibilities in International Co-operation Members (As of July
   1999) Tetsuhiko Ikegami, Vice President The University of Aizu Teruo
   Kishi Director General National Institute for Advanced
   Interdisciplinary Research Kei Takeuchi Professor Meiji Gakuin
   University Naomasa Nakajima Dean School of Engineering The University
   of Tokyo Chairman Yoichiro Murakami Professor International Christian
   University Tamito Yoshida Professor Chuo University Schedule 1st July
   9, 1999 2nd August 5, 1999 3rd September 20, 1999 4th December 29, 1999
   5th November 30. 1999 6th February 4, 2000 30
