http://www.chp.ca.gov/html/answers.html


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                          California Highway Patrol
                          Commissioner's Welcome
                          Q & A
                          Publications
                          What We Do
                          Offices
                          News and Public Notices
                          History
                          Careers
                          Traffic Incidents
                          Related Sites
                          Site Map
                            * Reference

                            * Shoulder Patch

                            * Our Badge



   CHP motto - 'Safety and Service'



   __________ search
      (*)  My CA


   Answers to Most Frequently Asked Questions

   Is it illegal to use my cellular telephone while I'm driving?

   Present California law does not prohibit the use of a wireless
   telephone while operating a vehicle. However, the CHP recommends common
   sense in its use and we urge users to familiarize themselves with their
   cellular telephone features and follow these tips:

     * If possible, dial while the car is not in motion, such as at a
       traffic light or stop sign.
     * Learn to operate the phone without looking at it.
     * Never allow a phone conversation to distract you from driving.
     * Keep calls brief.
     * While talking, keep your head up and your eyes on the road, with
       frequent checks of side and rearview mirrors.
     * Use a hands-free device when available.
     * Don't take notes or look up phone numbers while driving.
     * If you must check information, arrange to call back and do your
       research while the car is safely stopped.

   Can I put after-market tinting on the windows of my vehicle?

   The main requirements for legal window tinting in California are:

    1. The windshield and front driver's side and passenger's side windows
       cannot receive any aftermarket tinting.
    2. If the rear window of a vehicle is tinted, the vehicle must have
       outside rearview mirrors on both sides.

   The law prohibits any person from driving any motor vehicle with any
   object or material placed, displayed, installed, affixed, or applied
   upon the windshield or side or rear windows, with certain limited
   exceptions.

   However, legislation signed into law effective January 1, 1999, exempts
   from the above prohibition specified clear, colorless, and transparent
   material that is installed, affixed, or applied to the front driver and
   passenger side windows for the specific purpose of reducing ultraviolet
   rays. If, as, or when this material becomes torn, bubbled or otherwise
   worn, it must be removed or replaced.

   Can motorcycle riders "split" lanes and ride between other vehicles?

   Lane splitting by motorcycles is permissible but must be done in a safe
   and prudent manner.

   I'm pregnant. The HOV lane requires two persons in a vehicle. Now that
   I'm eating for two, can I use this lane?

   California law requires that in order to utilize the HOV lane, there
   must be two (or, if posted, three) separate individuals occupying seats
   in a vehicle. Until your "passenger" is capable of riding in his or her
   own seat, you cannot count them.

   I will be traveling to California and want to carry my weapon. I
   currently have a concealed weapon permit. How can I legally transport
   my weapon while driving through the state?

   California does not recognize Concealed Weapon Permits from other
   states. If you wish to transport a weapon during your visit, it must be
   carried unloaded in a locked container separate from the passenger
   compartment. Any ammunition must also be kept in a location which is
   separate from the weapon.

   If you have additional questions, contact the California Department of
   Justice at 916-227-3703.

   How can I find out if it's OK to bring a particular kind of plant or
   animal into California?

   This information is available at the California Department of Food and
   Agriculture website. Their URL is: http://www.cdfa.ca.gov.

   I have heard that some gangs are initiating new members by driving with
   their headlights off and when people flash their lights at them, they
   must shoot the drivers of the cars who do this. Is this true?

   The California Highway Patrol has received many inquiries from people
   who have seen this message on the Internet. The simple answer is, it is
   not true. Of course, as a law enforcement agency we would caution
   people not to do anything in their vehicles which could anger or upset
   other drivers. But to our knowledge, nothing of this sort has taken
   place.

   The San Fernando Valley Folklore Society and other organizations track
   urban myths, and attempt to explain their origins.

   I have a technical question about commercial vehicles and/or school
   buses. Where can I get an answer?

   For information of this nature, please contact our Commercial Vehicle
   Section directly. The mailing address and telephone number is:

   California Highway Patrol
   Commercial Vehicle Section/062
   P.O. Box 942898
   Sacramento, CA  94298-0001
   (916) 445-1865

   I am interested in buying items with the CHP name or logo on them.
   Where can I do this?

   A variety of CHP-related items are available through the PX at our
   Academy. You can also request a catalog which contains photos and
   descriptions of most of their stock.

   Here is the mailing address and telephone number for the PX:

   CHP Recreation Fund
   3500 Reed Avenue
   West Sacramento, CA  95605
   (916) 376-3330

   What is the 11-99 Foundation, and where can I find out more about it?

   The 11-99 Foundation is a recognized non-profit organization which
   provides financial assistance to the families of CHP officers who are
   killed in the line of duty. Their website is at http://www.chp1199.org.
   If you would like more detailed information, you may write or call:

   11-99 Foundation
   P.O. Box 3537
   La Habra, CA  90632-3537
   (562) 947-1199

   I need a police clearance letter. Where can I get one?

   These letters are available from the California Department of Justice
   (DOJ). You may call the DOJ directly at (916) 227-3832 or (916)
   445-9555, or you may write to:

   California Department of Justice
   P. O. Box 944255
   Sacramento, CA 94244-2550

   What is the telephone number to call for current road conditions? Is
   there a web site which contains this information?

   The California Department of Transportation (Caltrans) operates two
   road condition hotlines. From within California, call 800-427-ROAD
   (7623), and when you are outside the state you can receive the same
   information at (916) 445-7623.

   Caltrans also has a web page which contains several different sources
   for road information. The URL is: http://www.dot.ca.gov/hq/roadinfo/.

   I have a 4-wheel drive vehicle. Do I have to carry / use chains? What
   do the "R" ratings which are associated with chain requirements mean?

   "R" ratings on snowy roads indicate chain requirements for various
   conditions. Some vehicles may not be required to use chains under all
   conditions, but all vehicles must carry chains. Most vehicles come
   equipped with snow tires. Look for M+S (mud and snow), All Season, or
   All Terrain, on the side of the tire.

   R-1   chains required except for vehicles with snow tires (chains
   required for any vehicle pulling a trailer)

   R-2   chains required except for 4-wheel drive with snow tires

   R-3   chains required for all vehicles

   I have studded tires installed on my vehicle. Are they legal in
   California? When?

   The California Vehicle Code [Section 27454 (e)], permits studded tires
   to be used on vehicles between November 1 and April 1 of each year. The
   number of studs or the percentage of metal in contact with the roadway
   cannot exceed three percent of the total tire area in contact with the
   roadway.

   Since there could be some confusion on this issue, you may wish to
   write to the CHP. That way you will receive an official response that
   you can carry in your vehicle. The mailing address is:

   California Highway Patrol
   Office of Public Affairs
   P. O. Box 942898
   Sacramento, CA  94298-0001

   How do I file a complaint against CHP or one of its employees?

   Complaints against CHP employees may be registered at
   http://www.chp.ca.gov/html/cit_complaint.html. Instructions for filing
   against either a uniformed or non-uniformed member of the Department is
   described on that page.

   How do I get a copy of an accident report (in which I was involved)?

   Directions for completing CHP Form 190 can be found on these pages:
     * Application for Release of Information
     * Solicitud para Obtener Información


                             Back to Top of Page
   © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor.   Conditions of Use |
                               Privacy Policy
