http://www.fta.dot.gov/research/fleet/its/its.htm

   Jump to Text



   FTA graphic to the FTA Home page Federal Transit Administration
   Department of Transportation to the Research Home page
   FTA bottom graphic Bookshop Links to Other Sites Search Grantees page
                      Site Map What's New Contact FTA

   Side bar graphic
   Research and Technology Programs
   Fleet Operations Program Area
   Bus Rapid Transit
   Mixed Rail Corridor Operations
   Transit Capacity and Quality of Service Program
   Transit Intelligent Transportation Systems
   Transit Intelligent Transportation Systems Deployment Program
   Transit Intelligent Transportation Systems Electronic Fare Payment
   Systems
   Transit Intelligent Transportation Systems Evaluations
   Transit Intelligent Transportation Systems Geographical Information
   Systems
   Transit Intelligent Transportation Systems Mobile Showcase
   Transit Intelligent Transportation Systems Model Deployment Initiative
   Transit Intelligent Transportation Systems National Architecture
   Transit Intelligent Transportation Systems Operational Tests
   Transit Intelligent Transportation Systems Operation TimeSaver
   Transit Intelligent Transportation Systems Priority Corridors
   Transit Intelligent Transportation Systems Rail
   Transit Intelligent Transportation Systems Rural
   Transit Intelligent Transportation Systems Standards
   Transit Intelligent Transportation Systems Telecommunications
   Transit Intelligent Transportation Systems Transit Management Systems
   Transit Intelligent Transportation Systems Traveler Information Systems
   Transit Intelligent Transportation Systems 2002 Winter Olympics
   Transit Intelligent Transportation Systems Year 2000 Problem
                      Transit Intelligent
                    Transportation Systems

   Related Resources       |       Related Documents       |
                           Contacts

   Photo: Traffic management operators and transit bus dispatchers working
   in a highly integrated transportation management center in Rockville,
   Maryland
     Traffic management operators and transit bus dispatchers working in a
          highly integrated transportation management center in Rockville,
                Maryland (Montgomery County Department of Public Works and
                                                           Transportation)

   Overview
   Transit Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) is an element of the
   U.S. Department of Transportation's (DOT) National ITS Program. Transit
   ITS is a comprehensive approach to applying information technologies to
   transit to improve customer service and reduce system capital and
   operating costs.

   Transit ITS is organized in parallel with the U.S. DOT National ITS
   Program and has three components: Metropolitan, Rural, and Transit
   Intelligent Vehicle Initiative (IVI). The U.S. DOT National ITS Program
   also includes a Commercial Vehicle Operations component. The
   Metropolitan component of Transit ITS focuses on urban and suburban
   transportation in the areas of Traveler Information, Transit Management
    and Electronic Payment.

   The Rural component addresses these same areas to improve the
   effectiveness of transit in rural areas. The Transit IVI involves
   automating transit vehicle control and safety systems. Each of these
   three components is discussed in detail as follows.

   Over the next five years, the Metropolitan component of Transit ITS
   will continue the evolution of initiatives which have proven
   successful. Activities in this area are divided into Traveler
   Information, Transit Management, and Electronic Fare Payment systems.
   The Federal Transit Administration's (FTA) effort is also to encourage
   the local transpiration managers to establish, adopt, and integrate the
   above key components of the ITS systems.

   Photo: Passenger checking his watch against the real-time transit bus
   arrival sign in Rockville, Maryland
   Passenger checking his watch against the real-time transit bus arrival
   sign in Rockville, Maryland (W. Raymond Keng, FTA)
   Traveler Information efforts will focus on the integration of traveler
   information systems with fleet management systems and other
   operations-based systems. Anticipated technological advances will
   improve information kiosk capability and electronic bus stop signs. The
   integration of these systems will be able to provide improved levels of
   transit customer service information to the public Transit Management
   systems development will seek to improve integration with subsystems as
   well as with multiple operator systems and between transit and other
   modes. Such systems will streamline passenger counting, assist with the
   flexible routing of vehicles, enable timed-transfer for passengers,
   facilitate multiple-agency regional fleet management, and enhance
   automated vehicle diagnostics.

   Photo: Former FTA Administrator Gordon J. Linton using a smart card to
   board a bus in Washington, District of Columbia
   Former FTA Administrator Gordon J. Linton using a smart card to board a
     bus in Washington, District of Columbia (Washington Metropolitan Area
                                                        Transit Authority)

   Activities in Electronic Payment will continue to work towards the
   vision of a single cashless payment system that may be used for any
   mode of transportation, as well as for other applications including
   payment for telephone calls and retail purchasing. Integration with
   government benefits-transfer systems is also a feasible objective.
   Major activities include working with the industry to develop
   integration guidelines and system specifications, as well as highly
   focused operational tests aimed at solving specific integration issues.

   Passengers using a paratransit vehicle in Arkansas
   Passengers on a paratransit vehicle in Arkansas (Central Arkansas
   Transit Authority)
   The Rural component of Transit ITS will focus on those unique
   characteristics of rural transit operations critical to rural
   communities. These activities will improve rural mobility by dispatch
   coordination with multiple transportation agencies, fleet maintenance
   coordination within a fleet and among fleets of different providers,
   communications including emergency service fleets, geocoding and
   addressing, coordination of responses to weather-related activities
   among various fleets (transit, highway maintenance, and emergency
   services), the development of regional traveler information
   architecture, and outreach to rural public transportation communities.

        Graphic: The flows and linkage of the National ITS Architecture
        The National ITS Architecture (U. S. Department of Transportation)

   A key factor tying the elements of the Metropolitan component of
   Transit ITS together and also enabling Transit ITS to integrate with
   other transportation modes is the National Architecture for ITS. The
   National Architecture provides the framework for integration. The
   National Architecture identifies four categories of senders and
   receivers of information (in rectangular boxes) and four categories of
   communications channels (in oval boxes). The National Architecture
   itself identifies the communications relationships between ITS entities
   in complete detail. While the Architecture does not identify the
   standards or protocols through which messages are sent, it does
   identify who must communicate with whom in ITS. As a partner in the
   development of the National Architecture, FTA's Transit ITS activities
   strongly encourages, and fully supports, consistency with the National
   Architecture in all ITS deployments.

   Standards help industry share technologies, improve reliability, reduce
   the costs of maintaining a qualified and knowledgeable workforce, and
   may reduce long-term costs. The first round of the Transit
   Communications Interface Profiles (TCIP) standards development is now
   complete and as the TCIP is implemented it will be monitored, reviewed
   and revised if necessary. FTA clearly recognizes that standards are
   important and that they should come from industry. FTA will act as a
   catalyst and participate in standards development to support the ITS
   National Architecture. This includes the development of consistency
   guidance for the National Architecture, as well as the refinement of
   the TCIP, and other ITS-related efforts. In the long term, FTA and the
   American Public Transit Association (APTA) will be launching the
   Transit Standards Consortium to serve as a forum for discussing
   standards issues and prioritizing standards needs. FTA will also assist
   in the development of international standards, to seek new markets
   abroad under the same international standards, and enhance U.S. global
   competitiveness in the long run.

   Mainstreaming ITS technologies and providing technical assistance on
   the National Architecture and how advanced technologies can be used to
   re-invent transit, also plays a critical role in the departmental
   Transit ITS program over the next five years. As knowledge from the
   research areas becomes available, and experience grows, it will be
   important to disseminate the information as quickly as possible in this
   rapidly changing area. Professional Capacity Building (PCB) through
   Training courses and workshops, peer-to-peer scanning tours, sharing of
   professionals through peer-to-peer networks, and development of
   standards and best practice guidance will be used to provide support to
   the transit industry in implementing ITS systems.

   Top of Page


   Legend
   Graphic: Document and/or program with FTA sponsorship and/or
   participation - Document and/or program with FTA sponsorship and/or
   participation
   Graphic: Portable Document Format - To view a file in Portable Document
   Format (PDF), use Acrobat Reader.
   Order a copy - To order a hard copy, audio cassette or video tape,
   click on the link after the document title.

   Related Resources
   American Public Transit Association (APTA)

   Community Transportation Association of America (CTAA)

   Intelligent Transportation Society of America (ITSA)  Graphic: Document
   and/or program with FTA sponsorship and/or participation
   • Education
   • Electronic Payment
   • Intelligent Vehicle
   • International
   • Rural
   • Standards
   • System Architecture
   • Telecommunications
   • Transit
   • Traveler Information

   Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) Cooperative Deployment Network
   (ICDN)  Graphic: Document and/or program with FTA sponsorship and/or
   participation

   Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) Electronic Document Library
   (EDL)  Graphic: Document and/or program with FTA sponsorship and/or
   participation

   Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) Joint Program Office (JPO)

   Transportation Efficiency Act for the 21st Century (TEA-21)  Graphic:
   Document and/or program with FTA sponsorship and/or participation

   Top of Page

   Related Documents
   Advanced Public Transportation Systems Deployments in the United
   States, Update 1999 (January 1999)   Graphic: Document and/or program
   with FTA sponsorship and/or participation Portable Document Format (165
   KB)

   Advanced Public Transportation Systems:  the State of the Art, Update
   1998 (January 1998)    Graphic: Document and/or program with FTA
   sponsorship and/or participation Portable Document Format (578 KB)

   Benefits Assessment of Advanced Public Transportation Systems (July
   1996)  Graphic: Document and/or program with FTA sponsorship and/or
   participation Portable Document Format (1.2 MB)  Order a Copy

   Federal Register Publications  Graphic: Document and/or program with
   FTA sponsorship and/or participation
   • Request for Proposals for an Operational Test of an Electronic
   Payment System for Transportation and Other Applications (Federal
   Register - July 26, 1999)
   • Request for Letters of Interest to Participate in an Operational Test
   of an Electronic Payment System for Transit Fare Collection and Other
   Applications (Federal Register - November 24, 1998)

   Federal Transit Administration  Graphic: Document and/or program with
   FTA sponsorship and/or participation
   • FTA Strategic Plan 1998-2002

   Oversight of Fare Collection Practices. Summary Report (Federal Transit
   Administraiton - November 1997)   Graphic: Document and/or program with
   FTA sponsorship and/or participation   Order a Copy

   Participation in the Intelligent Transportation Systems Deployment
   Program (March 22, 1999)   Graphic: Document and/or program with FTA
   sponsorship and/or participation

   Smart Cards for Transit - Multi-Use Remotely Interrogated Stored-Data
   Cards for Fare and Toll Payment (Federal Transit Administration -
   1995)  Graphic: Document and/or program with FTA sponsorship and/or
   participation   Order a Copy

   Transit Cooperative Research Program (TCRP)  Graphic: Document and/or
   program with FTA sponsorship and/or participation
   • Report #11 - Impact of Radio Frequency Refarming on Transit
   Communications (1996)  Order a copy
   • Report #18 - A Handbook for Acquiring Demand-Responsive Transit
   Software (1996)   Portable Document Format (2.2 MB)   Order a copy
   • Report #32 - Multipurpose Transit Payment Media (1998)   Portable
   Document Format (2.2 MB)  Order a copy
   • Report #43 - Understanding and Applying Advanced On-Board Bus
   Electronics (1999)  Order a copy
   • Synthesis #24 - Automatic Vehicle Location (AVL) Systems for Bus
   Transit (1997)   Portable Document Format (869 KB)   Order a copy
   • Synthesis #29 - Passenger Counting Technologies and Procedures
   (1998)  Order a copy

   U.S. Department of Transportation Press Releases  Graphic: Document
   and/or program with FTA sponsorship and/or participation
   • Remarks Prepared for Delivery by Deputy Secretary of Transportation
   Mortimer Downey at the Washington Metropolitan Traveler Information
   Service Inaugural (July 1, 1997)
   • Secretary Peña Selects Four Metropolitan Areas For
   Intelligent Transportation Infrastructure Demonstrations Presents first
   award, $7.5 Million to Phoenix (October 24, 1996)
   • FHWA Forms Two Partnerships to Help Advance the Intelligent
   Transportation Infrastructure (May 28,1996)
   • Atlanta Intelligent Transportation System Opens - Traveler
   Information Showcase to Debut in Time for 1996 Olympic Games (April 11,
   1996)
   • Vice President Gore, Transportation Secretary Peña Usher in New Era
   for Travel, Time Savings and Communications with Global Positioning
   Satellite System (March 29, 1996)
   • Peña Announces First Step in Operation Timesaver Initiative - Seeks
   Several Metropolitan Areas to Serve as Model Sites for Intelligent
   Transportation Infrastructure (February 26, 1996)
   • Peña Announces National Initiative to Build Intelligent
   Transportation Infrastructure (January 10, 1996)

   U.S. Department of Transportation Strategic Plan 1997-2002  Graphic:
   Document and/or program with FTA sponsorship and/or participation

   Top of Page

   Contacts
   Please submit questions or comments regarding Transit Research and
   Technology Programs to:[research@fta.dot.gov].

   Office of Mobility Innovation, TRI-10
   Federal Transit Administration
   400 7th Street, SW
   Washington, DC 20590
   202-366-4991

   Advanced Public Transportation Systems Division, TRI-11
   Federal Transit Administration
   400 7th Street, SW
   Washington, DC 20590
   202-366-4991

   Top of Page

              http://www.fta.dot.gov/research/fleet/its/its.htm

                           FTA Navigational Links
   Bookshop Links to Other Sites Search Grantees Page Site Map What's New
