http://www.boost4kids.gov/welcome.htm

   REFRESH(200 sec): file://localhost/


   Welcome

   Meet B4K Network

   Find Your State

   Home



   Boost 4 Kids

   HOME

Welcome

   [welcome.gif]

   Welcome to the Boost 4 Kids web site--a place where people who want to
   make a difference for America's children can learn from each other,
   work together to solve problems, and measure how we are doing to
   protect and nurture our nation's children.

   Boost 4 Kids began in Nashville, Tennessee in June 1998 at Family
   Re-Union 7, when Dr. Robert Ross described to Vice President Gore how
   San Diego County had cut overhead, streamlined administrative
   procedures, measured progress and was now able to reinvest savings in
   increased services for children and families. On the spot, Vice
   President Gore asked his National Partnership for Reinventing
   Government to look at applying the San Diego model to national programs
   for children and families. In January 1999, Vice President Gore
   formally announced this initiative, calling it Boost 4 Kids. He invited
   local, state, and federal partners to "use existing resources more
   effectively and put our children, not paperwork, first."

   Thirteen performance partnerships were announced on May 13, 1999. Each
   performance partnership has community, state, and federal
   representatives and each has a federal champion to help measure results
   and cut red tape. The 13 performance partnerships and 20 charter
   members of the Network attended Family Re-Union 8 in June 1999 and were
   recognized by Vice President Gore. Family Re-Union is a series of
   annual conferences moderated by Vice President and Mrs. Gore that bring
   together families and those who work with them to discuss and design
   better ways to strengthen family life in America.

   In addition, all communities that submitted Boost 4 Kids proposals, and
   others who have since heard about this project, have all been invited
   to help create a Boost 4 Kids Network, which now includes over 75
   communities.

   Goals of Boost 4 Kids:
    1. Cut red tape and streamline services to get better results for our
       nation's children.
    2. Achieve specific targets and results identified by performance
       partners.
    3. Create better models for cross-government delivery of services for
       children.
    4. Identify and resolve barriers at the federal, state and local
       levels.
    5. Learn promising practices to better manage for results and maximize
       resources.
    6. Provide a way for local, state, and federal partners to share
       lessons learned.
