http://ora.ca.gov/newsdocs/press_release_final.doc

   California Public Utilities Commission 505 Van Ness Avenue, San
   Francisco, CA 94102 - 3298 NEWS RELEASE __ Office of Ratepayer
   Advocates CONTACT: Regina Birdsell December 12, 2001 415-703-2544 THE
   OFFICE OF RATEPAYER ADVOCATES ADVISED THE LEGISLATURE NOT TO RUSH TO
   JUDGMENT IN DEREGULATING LOCAL TELEPHONE COMPANIES The Office of
   Ratepayer Advocates (ORA) of the California Public Utilities Commission
   (Commission) today testified before the Assembly Committee on Utilities
   and Commerce that the Commission should maintain its current regulatory
   framework for incumbent Local Exchange Carriers (ILECs) in California,
   Pacific Bell, Verizon (formerly GTEC), Citizens Telephone Company of
   California, and Roseville Telephone Company. ORA has a
   multidisciplinary staff with expertise in economics, finance,
   accounting and engineering. ORA is charged with the responsibility of
   independently representing the interest of consumers before the
   Commission. ORA's views do not necessarily reflect those of the
   Commission. Over the past decade, the Commission regulated the four
   local telephone companies using a regulatory tool called the New
   Regulatory Framework (NRF). This framework is an incentive regulation
   mechanism that allows local phone companies to keep extra earnings as
   an incentive to operate efficiently. In addition, prices for local
   exchange phone services are capped and can only be raised by Commission
   authorization. Under this incentive regulation, customers have enjoyed
   affordable basic service rates and an increasing variety of phone
   services while the local phone companies have realized healthy
   earnings. ``On the whole, the Commission's NRF has advantages and
   should be retained and built upon, not ended or weakened,'' said Regina
   Birdsell, ORA's Director. She added, ``NRF recognizes that we need a
   hybrid regulatory structure, one that provides incentives for cost
   reduction and competitive entry while also being realistic about the
   residual market power of local phone companies.'' While NRF has been a
   success in many respects, ORA will ask the Commission to review some
   problem areas in the current NRF review. Pacific Bell's quality of
   service has deteriorated during the NRF period. A recent proposed
   decision in a formal complaint brought by ORA, a Commission Law Judge
   reached a preliminary finding that Pacific Bell's repair service
   response time has increased to an unreasonable level which violating
   the SBC-Pacific Bell's merger agreement with the Commission. Pacific
   Bell has moved services from regulatory controlled, price-capped
   services to fully competitive services under Commission authority. Once
   granted the authority, Pacific Bell has then exercised its market power
   to raise the rates. For instance, Pacific Bell has raised its inside
   wire service price more than 400% between 1999 and 2001, and raised its
   business toll rates by about 50% in less than a year. Pacific has also
   increased its directory assistance per call rates by 84% and has a
   proceeding pending to raise its business basic exchange rates. Since
   1995, when California opened the telecommunications market to
   competition, and passage of the 1996 Telecommunications Act,
   residential and small business customers have paid millions to jump
   start local competition, but have gotten few of the promised benefits.
   The Commission should resist the NRF companies' proposals to end NRF.
   On the contrary, the Commission should raise the bar on what it takes
   to get its approval for ``full pricing flexibility'' for services and
   toughen its audits of the NRF companies. In the energy arena, the rush
   to deregulate electricity led to the Commission's loss of regulatory
   control over power generation. Claims of effective competition were
   made for the energy industry and we are now hearing them made for the
   telecommunications industry. Then, as now, deregulation pundits assured
   us that consumers would soon see the benefits of ever-lowering
   competitive prices. That promise has yet to be realized. Instead,
   consumers and, indeed, the state,
   will???????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????
   ? ?????????????????????????????????????????????????
