http://atlas-csc.inst.bnl.gov/RHAWG071299.pdf

   ATLAS Technical Coordination Radiation Hardness Assurance Working Group
   Coordinator: M. Dentan. Report of the Second meeting of the ATLAS
   Radiation Hardness Assurance Working Group CERN, 593-R-10, 7 December
   1999, 9:00-16:30. The main purpose of this meeting was to prepare the
   revision 2 of the ATLAS policy on Radiation Tolerant Electronics.
   Agenda: I. Introduction: low dose rate effects on bipolar transistors:
   - Facts; explanations of the mechanisms. II. Proposed strategy for
   pre-selecting components and qualifying batches. - Radiation
   constraint; radiation hardness required; - Existing test methods; -
   Procurement strategy. III. Proposed standard test methods for ATLAS: -
   Total ionising dose, displacement damages, single event effects. IV.
   Radiation constraints in ATLAS detector and cavern. - Available data;
   improvements required. V. List of the components used in each ATLAS
   sub-system. - Frame of the ATLAS electronics components data base. VI.
   Irradiation facilities. - Preliminary list. VII. RHA-WG members. -
   Official list. Attendees: Marie-Laure Andrieux (Grenoble / Atlas LARG),
   Francis Anghinolfi (CERN / Atlas SCT), Pierre Borgeaud (Saclay / Atlas
   LARG), Martin Dentan (CERN/ Atlas TC), Federico Faccio (CERN / COTS),
   Philippe Farthouat (CERN / Atlas TC), Philippe Grenier (Clermont /
   Atlas Tile), Bjorn Hallgren (CERN / Atlas DCS), Pierre Jarron (CERN /
   COTS), Werner Kubischta (CERN / Atlas cryogenics), Jose Pascual (Saclay
   / Atlas LARG), Vinnie Polychronakos (BNL / Moun CSC), Robert Richter
   (Munchen / Atlas Muons MDT), Giorgio Stefanini (CERN / CMS), Riccardo
   Vari (INFN Roma / Atlas Muons RPC). I. INTRODUCTION: LOW DOSE RATE
   EFFECTS ON BIPOLAR TRANSISTORS I.1. Facts: P. Jarron reported the main
   results of a study of low dose rate effects on bipolar transistors made
   by Allan Johnston (Jet Propulsion Laboratory). The degradation induced
   on bipolar transistors by Total Ionising Dose (TID) increases when the
   dose rate decreases. This phenomenon called Low Dose Rate Effect (LDRE)
   becomes significant with a dose rate of about 50 rad/s; it increases
   continuously when the dose rate decreases down to 0.001 rad/s or less.
   LDRE occurs even for very low TID (1 or 2 krads). LDRE depends on the
   technology (structure and thickness of the oxide surrounding the
   emitter), on the type of devices (LDRE are generally more severe on pnp
   than on npn transistors), on the biasing conditions (worst case: biased
   devices), on the design (lateral or vertical transistors). For the same
   device, LDRE varies strongly between manufacturers (factor 10 or more).
   No recovery is observed after irradiation on devices irradiated at low
   dose rate. On elementary bipolar transistors, LDRE increases the
   degradation of the gain induced by TID. On bipolar circuits, LDRE
   increases the degradation of the gain of amplifiers, of the input bias
   currents, of the input offset voltages, etc. I.2. Brief explanation of
   the mechanisms: M. Dentan gave a brief explanation of the mechanisms
   responsible for low dose rate effects on CMOS and bipolar transistors.
   This explanation is summarised in appendix I. II. PROPOSED STRATEGY FOR
   PRE-SELECTING COMPONENTS AND QUALIFYING BATCHES II.1. Radiations
   constraints Three types of radiation constraints will affect ATLAS
   electronics components: Particles producing ionisation in silicon
   oxide: photons, protons, pions, ions, (...).The unit to represent these
   particles is the total ionizing dose (TID) expressed in Gray. Particles
   producing atomic displacements in silicon: hadrons. The unit to
   represent these particles is the 1 MeV equivalent neutron fluence.
   Particles producing Single Event Effects (including SEU = single event
   upsets, SEL = single event latch-up, SEB = single event burn-out, SEGR
   = single event gate rupture). These particles can be incident
   particles, or particles resulting from interactions of incident
   particles with the material of the electronics components. The unit
   used to represent these particles is the linear energy transfer (LET).
   The units used to represent the sensitivity of a given device to SEE
   are the threshold LET (minimum LET required to produce a SEE) and the
   saturated cross section (surface of the sensitive nodes). II.2.
   Radiation hardness required at test level: Radiation levels have been
   simulated by Mike Shupe (University of Arizona) for the various regions
   of ATLAS where electronics systems will be located. Safety factors (SF)
   must be applied on these simulated radiation level to estimate the
   radiation hardness required at test level for the electronics
   components of the various electronics systems: ¡ SF1 = 4 to 6
   represents the inaccuracy of the simulation (description of the system,
   ...); ¡ SF2 = 5 represents LDRE (when no experimental approach exists);
   ¡ SF3 = 2 to 4 represents the radiation tolerance variation from lot to
   lot and within lots. II.3. Existing test methods: Standard test methods
   have been developed by the US DOD and by the ESA to estimate the
   radiation hardness of electronics components. Table 1 summarises the
   main effects of the radiation constraints on electronics components and
   the test methods suitable to evaluate these effects. Particles Basic
   effects Main units Sensitive Main Test method devices Effects
   Displacement 1 MeV eq. Bipolar ¢ Beta MIL 883 - 1017.2 Hadrons damage
   neutron / cm2 Diodes ¢ I(V) MIL 883 - 1017.2 fluence JFETs ¢ Vp MIL 883
   - 1017.2 Oxide ionisation Dose (Gy) CMOS ¢ Vt, ESA spec. 22900 @ high
   dose rate dose rate (Gy/s) I leakage MIL 883 - 1019.5 Photons, Bipolar
   ¢ Beta, ESA spec. 22900 Electrons, I leakage MIL 883 - 1019.5 Charged
   Oxide ionisation Dose (Gy) CMOS ¢ Vt, ESA spec. 22900 Hadrons. @ low
   dose rate dose rate (Gy/s) I leakage MIL 883 - 1019.5 Bipolar ¢ Beta
   JPL approach ? Protons, SEU Flux, LET Logic circuits Errors ESA spec.
   25100 Pions, // Memories upsets ESA spec. 25100 Energetic SEL // CMOS
   circuits short circuit ESA spec. 25100 Neutrons, SEGR // CMOS short
   circuit ? Ions. SEB // CMOS, bipolar short circuit ? Table 1. £
   Standard test methods derived from DOD or ESA test methods must be
   defined and applied for the selection and the procurement of the
   components required by each ATLAS sub-systems (see section III). II.4.
   Procurement strategy: The participants to this RHA-WG meeting have
   defined a components procurement strategy in four steps. They agree to
   propose it to the ATLAS Executive Board, with the aim to use it as a
   standard for ATLAS. Step one: listing of all the components types (part
   number PN, manufacturer) required to build the various electronics
   systems of ATLAS, with mention of the required quantities and the
   required radiation hardness (see details in appendix II). Step two
   (fig. 1) : pre-selection of the components types (same part number,
   same manufacturer) which may withstand the required radiation hardness.
   This pre-selection must be based on ATLAS standard test procedures (see
   section III). It must be made by sampling. The population sample must
   be large enough to enable statistical analysis (see standard test
   procedures). Ideally, components must come from a known production
   line. However, in most of the cases, the customer only knows the name
   of the manufacturer, but he does not know if the components come from
   one or several production plant from the manufacturer around the world,
   or from another unknown manufacturer but with the stamp of the known
   manufacturer on the top of the package. The safety factor SF3
   representing the variation of the radiation tolerance from lot to lot
   and within lots should cover these uncertainties. PN, manufacturer
   sample test 0 reject PN 1 accept PN Figure 1. Step three (fig. 2) :
   qualification of the lots of components to be mounted in ATLAS
   electronics boards. As for the pre-selection step, the qualification of
   lots of components must be based on ATLAS standard test procedures and
   must be made by sampling with a population sample large enough to
   enable statistical analysis. Ideally, lots of components must come from
   a known production line and must have the same date and diffusion code.
   When this is not clearly stated, a commercial lot of components having
   the same part number and the same manufacturer name on their package
   can randomly contain components issued from several diffusion lots
   which could come from several production lines from several
   manufacturers. As for the pre- selection step, these uncertainties on
   the origin of the components must be covered by the safety factor SF3
   representing the variation of the radiation tolerance from lot to lot
   and within lots. PN, manufacturer, lot sample test 0 reject lot 1
   accept lot Figure 2. Step four: Purchasing of the lots of components.
   Ideally, step four must be made after step three. This requires good
   relations with the vendor, which must agree to "freeze" lots and to
   provide samples which the customer will test before deciding to
   purchase or to reject the frozen lots. Most of the time, vendors cannot
   "freeze" lots and step 4 must be made before step 3. This induces the
   risk of purchasing bad commercial lots. To reduce this risk, if no
   "test and purchase" agreement can be found with the vendor, the
   population sample in step 2 must be significantly higher than the
   minimum recommended in the standard test procedures. Result: these four
   steps lead to lots of known good components, ie components which are
   known to satisfy the required radiation hardness level. III. PROPOSED
   STANDARD TEST METHODS FOR ATLAS The participants to this RHA-WG meeting
   have examined in details three radiation test methods issued from DOD
   and ESA. They agree to propose them with several minor adaptations to
   the ATLAS executive board, with the aim to apply them as standard test
   methods, associated with the components procurement strategy presented
   in section II.4. The original DOD and ESA test methods are: ¤ DOD MIL
   STD 883 test method 1017.2 (displacement damage test method); ¤ ESA SCC
   basic specification no 22900 (total ionising dose test method); ¤ ESA
   SCC basic specification no 25100 (SEU and latch-up test method). They
   are available on the ATLAS Front-End Electronics web page
   (http://www.cern.ch/Atlas/GROUPS/FRONTEND/radhard.htm) : ¤
   http://www.cern.ch/Atlas/GROUPS/FRONTEND/WWW/milstd~1.pdf ¤
   http://www.cern.ch/Atlas/GROUPS/FRONTEND/WWW/22900.pdf ¤
   http://www.cern.ch/Atlas/GROUPS/FRONTEND/WWW/25100.pdf IV. RADIATION
   CONSTRAINTS IN ATLAS DETECTOR AND CAVERN The ATLAS radiation
   environment has been simulated first by Paula Sala and Alfredo Ferrari
   (CERN), then by Mike Shupe (University of Arizona). Currently available
   data: The list of the available data on the ATLAS radiation environment
   is given in appendix III. These data include the TID required for total
   ionising dose tests and the 1 MeV equivalent neutron fluence required
   for displacement damage tests. However, they don't include the total
   fluence of hadrons above 20 MeV required for SEE tests based on
   protons, nor the precise particle energy spectrums (maps with energy
   cuts) in the range 1 Mev  20 MeV required for SEE tests based on
   neutrons. Problems of accuracy : Difference between two simulation
   codes The simulations made by Mike Shupe give more optimistic results
   (lower radiation levels) than those made by Paula Sala and Alfredo
   Ferrari. These two families of simulations have been made with two
   different codes. The difference between their results is large
   sometimes: a factor 5 on the neutron fluence, and a factor 2 on the
   total ionising dose. These differences show that simulated radiation
   levels should in no way be used as exact values, and that they must be
   used very cautiously. Possible errors Simulations made by Mike Shupe
   show no photons in the range 1 keV  10 keV, whereas they show photons
   below 1 keV and beyond 10 keV. This probably results from an error.
   Obsolete results The data currently available result from simulation
   taking into account the main materials constituting ATLAS. However,
   when these simulations were performed, the final structure of some of
   the sub-systems was not decided. The final choice made on these
   sub-systems makes the simulation obsolete. New simulations could be
   necessary to avoid over-estimation of the radiation constraint in these
   sub-systems. This is particularly requested by the Tile Collaboration
   (see details in appendix IV). New simulations required : New
   simulations must be performed as soon as possible to provide ATLAS
   sub-systems with the missing data required for SEE tests and to correct
   the problems of accuracy mentioned above. Such simulations must be done
   by a person or a team willing to do this work and to improve it,
   according to ATLAS needs, during the next four years. Vinnie
   Polychronakos (BNL) proposes to ask both Sue Willis (Northern Illinois
   University) and Mike shupe to perform these new simulations. The new
   simulated radiation maps immediately required are: Test Required map
   Displacement damage - total fluence of 1 MeV equivalent neutrons, per
   year Total Ionising Dose - total ionising dose (Gy) , per year Single
   Event Effects - total fluence of hadrons above 20 MeV, per year tested
   with protons Single Event Effects - fluence of neutron with energy
   cuts, per year; tested with neutrons - fluence of electrons with energy
   cuts, per year; - fluence of total charged particles with energy cuts,
   per year; all these maps with the following energy cuts: ¥ < 1 keV (1
   map); ¥ 1 keV  10 keV (1 map); ¥ 10 keV  100 keV (1 map); ¥ 100 keV  1
   MeV (1 map); ¥ 1 MeV  20 MeV by steps of 1 or 2 MeV (11 to 20 maps); ¥
   > 20 MeV (1 map). V. LIST OF THE COMPONENTS USED IN EACH ATLAS
   SUB-SYSTEM A preliminary frame of the ATLAS electronics components data
   base is given in appendix II. The final frame will be given in revision
   2 of the ATLAS policy on radiation tolerant electronics. VI.
   IRRADIATION FACILITIES A preliminary list of some irradiation
   facilities is given in appendix V. A more complete list will be given
   in revision 2 of the ATLAS policy on radiation tolerant electronics.
   VII. RHA-WG MEMBERS The official representatives of all the ATLAS
   sub-systems have been designated by the coordinators of the
   sub-systems. The list of the members of the RHA-WG is given in appendix
   VI. ______________________________ Appendix I Mechanisms responsible
   for LDRE in CMOS and bipolar devices LDRE occur in every device using
   silicon oxide, in particular MOS and bipolar transistors. I. MOS
   transistors: Ionising particles (photons, ions) induce electron-hole
   pairs in MOS gate oxide. Electrons have a high mobility and quickly
   leave the oxide. Holes have a low mobility and diffuse slowly; most of
   them are finally long-term trapped in the oxide near the edge of the
   oxide. These trapped holes produce an electrical field which induces a
   negative shift of the threshold voltage (Vt) of both NMOS and PMOS
   transistors. However, before leaving the oxide, some of the electrons
   are recombined with some of the holes. This recombination mechanism
   reduces the total quantity of holes which will be trapped in the oxide,
   and then reduces the negative Vt shift induced by the total absorbed
   dose. The recombination rate depends on the dose rate. A high dose rate
   induces a high instantaneous density of electron-hole pairs which
   enhances the recombination rate. A low dose rate induces a low
   instantaneous density of electron-hole pairs (electrons quickly leave
   the oxide) which minimises the recombination rate. A second mechanism
   occurs in addition to the hole generation and trapping described below.
   Indeed, a fraction of the holes accumulated near the edge of the oxide
   will finally leave the oxide. When they leave the oxide at the
   interface between oxide and silicon, they produce defects in the
   silicon near this interface. These defects called interface states
   reduce the mobility of the carriers in the channel of MOS devices. They
   also trap electrical charges, according to the electrical bias applied
   on the gate. In PMOS devices, the gate is negatively biased and the
   charges trapped in interface states are positive (like the holes
   trapped in the gate oxide). These positive trapped charges produce an
   electrical field which induces a negative Vt shift, which then
   increases the negative Vt shift produced by the gate oxide trapped
   holes. In NMOS devices, the gate is positively biased and the charges
   trapped at the interface are negative (unlike the holes trapped in the
   gate oxide). These negative trapped charges produce an electrical field
   which induces a positive Vt shift, which then decreases the negative Vt
   shift produced by the holes trapped in the gate oxide. The global Vt
   shift of NMOS transistors depends on the ratio of the oxide charge
   density over the interface charge density. The magnitude of the Vt
   shifts induced by interface trapped charges depends on the density of
   the interface states, which depends on the density of holes accumulated
   in the gate oxide near the oxide-silicon interface, which is controlled
   by the dose rate. In PMOS devices, the global Vt shift is always
   negative; it increases when the dose rate decreases. In NMOS devices,
   the sign and the magnitude of the global Vt shift depends on the ratio
   of the oxide charge density over the interface charge density, which is
   controlled by the TID and by the dose rate. Figure 3 illustrates the
   evolution of the NMOS Vt shift with the TID, in case of high dose rate
   and in case of low dose rate. low dose rate § Vt (NMOS) high dose rate
   0 Dose 0 Figure 3: NMOS Vt shift versus dose, for low and high dose
   rates. LDRE are important in the case of non rad-hard devices; they are
   small in the case of devices produced with a rad-hard technology. II.
   Bipolar transistors: As explained before, TID induces energy states in
   the oxides and in the silicon near the silicon-oxide interface. The
   density of oxide states and of interface states increases when the dose
   rate decreases. Bipolar transistors involve oxide in their
   architecture. The emitter of lateral or vertical bipolar transistors is
   always surrounded by an oxide. Before irradiation, the density of
   energy states at the interface between silicon and the oxide
   surrounding the emitter is very low, and the recombination of minority
   carriers (injected from the emitter into the base) on these interface
   states is negligible. The collector current Ic is the flux of carriers
   injected from the emitter into the base (these carriers diffuse through
   the base and reach the collector). The base current Ib is the flux of
   carriers injected from the base into the emitter. The gain of the
   bipolar is: ¦ pre-rad = Ic/Ib. After irradiation, the density of energy
   states at the interface between silicon and the oxide surrounding the
   emitter is high, it induces a significant recombination of minority
   carriers (injected from the emitter into the base) with majority
   carriers (coming from the base). This recombination current constitutes
   a parasitic base current (Ib') which adds to the regular base current
   Ib. The total base current (Ib+Ib') becomes significantly greater than
   the regular base current Ib. The gain of the bipolar transistor
   becomes: ¦ post-rad = Ic/( Ib+Ib') At high collector current, the
   interface states are saturated by the carriers issued from the emitter
   (which recombines with the majority carriers issued from the base). The
   parasitic base current reach a saturation value Ib'sat which becomes
   more and more negligible (by comparison with Ib) when Ic (and Ib)
   increases. Consequently, at high collector current, the
   post-irradiation gain becomes close to the pre-irradiation gain.
   Inversely, at low collector current, there is no saturation of the
   interface states and thus the post-irradiation gain is strongly
   degraded by the parasitic recombination current Ib'. TID induces
   interface state density which produces the gain decrease. As explained
   in the case of CMOS devices, the interface state density induced by TID
   is higher at low dose rate than at high dose rate. Consequently, the
   degradation of the gain induced by TID is higher at low dose rate than
   at high dose rate. Figure 4 illustrates the evolution of the gain with
   the TID, in case of high dose rate and in case of low dose rate. ¨ 100
   pre-rad 75 50 high dose rate 25 low dose rate 0 Ic (A) -7 -6 -5 -4 -3
   10 10 10 10 10 Figure 4: (Ic) before irradiation and after irradiation
   at low and high dose rate. ¨ Appendix II Frame of the ATLAS electronics
   components data base (draft) For each type of component, the following
   data are requested (when available): General: © Part number; © Serial
   number; © Manufacturer: - Name; - Address. © Technology: - Type (CMOS,
   bipolar, BiCMOS, ...); - Minimum geometry available; - Maximum number
   of interconnection layers available - Date of first commercial
   availability of the technology; - Date of end of life of the technology
   (if known). © Packaging: - Type; - Number of pin; - Material. Radiation
   hardness: © Identification of the tested samples: - Production plant
   from where the tested samples come; - Date of manufacturing of the
   tested samples (date code); - Reference of the diffusion batch from
   which the tested samples come; © Hardness to Total Ionising Dose: -
   Test method, radiation source, dose and dose rate used for the tests; -
   Total Ionising Dose producing the failure; - Failure mechanism(s). ©
   Hardness to displacement damages: - Test method, radiation source,
   fluence and flux used for the tests; - Total 1 MeV eq. neutron fluence
   producing failure; - Failure mechanism(s). © Hardness to Single Event
   Effects: - Test method, radiation source, fluence and flux used for the
   tests; - For each type of SEE observed (SEU, SEL, SEB, SEGR): value of
   the LET threshold and of the saturation cross section. Foreseen
   application: © For each ATLAS sub-system: - Total number of parts
   required; - Radiation hardness required; - Contact person (address,
   phone, Email). Appendix III List of the available data on ATLAS
   radiation environment (December 1999) Data available in the ATLAS
   Policy on Radiation Tolerant Electronics version 1: Total neutron
   fluence in the best and worst ATLAS locations; 1 MeV equivalent neutron
   fluence in the best and worst ATLAS locations; 1 MeV equivalent neutron
   fluence map; Total ionising dose in the best and worst ATLAS locations;
   Total ionising dose map. Maps available in the web site
   http://isnwww.in2p3.fr/atlas/andrieux/mshupe.html Total neutron flux; >
   100 keV neutron flux; Total charged particles; Total deposited energy;
   Total ionisation dose; Photon above 30 keV; Photon above 300 keV; Total
   electron flux; Total muon flux; Star density. Appendix IV Material from
   the Tile Calorimeter which must be taken into account in new simulation
   of the radiation environment. Figure 5 : radiation levels must be
   accurately calculated in the regions were the Tile Cal electronics will
   be located, ie on the top and on the bottom of the 70 mm thick
   aluminium drawers, inside the 175 mm square of the steel girders.
   Figure 6 : the fingers (horizontally hachured region between the barrel
   and the extended barrel) will be full of cables and various electronics
   racks. The polyethylene blocks will contribute to reduce the neutron
   flux coming from the fingers into the drawers. Figure 5 Figure 6
   Appendix V Some irradiation facilities (draft) Gamma irradiations:
   DELTA (DEIN) : Contact person: Jean-Pierre Le Gac, Tel. +33 (0)1 69 08
   67 45 Source : Co60 (340 mCi) Volume: 100 dm3 Dose rates : 0.015 to 1.5
   Gy/h SIGMA (DEIN) : Contact person: Jean-Pierre Le Gac, Tel. +33 (0)1
   69 08 67 45 Source : Co60 (100 Ci) Volume : 40 dm3 Dose rates : 23 to
   260 Gy/h IRMA (IPSN) : Contact person: Jean-Pierre Le Gac, Tel. +33
   (0)1 69 08 67 45 Source : Co60 (9510 Ci) Volume : 24 m3 Dose rates : 25
   to 8000 Gy/h PAGURE (Cis Bio Industrie) : Contact person: Technical:
   Alexandre Battung, Tel. +33 (0)1 69 85 71 17 Marketing: M. Duval, Tel.
   +33 (0)1 69 85 71 80 Source : Co60 Volume : room = 5 m length, 5m
   width, 3 m high Dose rates : 20 kGy/h (inner region); 2 kGy/h (10 cm),
   1 Gy/h (2.5 m). GALAXIE (Cis-Bio Industrie): Contact person: Technical:
   Alexandre Battung, Tel. +33 (0)1 69 85 71 17 Marketing: M. Duval, Tel.
   +33 (0)1 69 85 71 80 Source : Co60 Volume : 40 cm diameter, 50 cm high.
   Dose rates : 2 kGy/h (mini), 5 Gy/h (maxi). Neutron irradiations:
   PROSPERO (DAM): Location: Valduc (France) Contact person: P. Zyromski,
   Tel. +33 (0)3 80 23 43 21 Source : Reactor Volume: room = 10 m length,
   8 m width, 6.5 m high Mean energy: 0.75 MeV Maximum flux: 0.8 E14
   n.cm2/hour (1 MeV equivalent neutrons) Very low gamma residual dose;
   accurate dosimetry. See also M.L. Andrieux's web site:
   http://isnwww.in2p3.fr/atlas/andrieux/radfac.html#radfac Appendix VI
   RHA-WG members Collaboration Surname First Name Institute Phone Email
   Pixel ATLAS Sicho Petr Prague +420 266 05 21 43 Petr.Sicho@cern.ch
   Silicon Strip Mandic Igor Lubljana Igor.Mandic@ijs.si Silicon Strip
   Anghinolfi Francis CERN +41 22 76 90 84 Francis.Anghinolfi@cern.ch
   Silicon Strip Kaplon Jan CERN +41 22 767 81 21 Jan.Kaplon@cern.ch TRT +
   ATLAS TC Farthouat Philippe CERN +41 22 767 62 21
   Philippe.Farthouat@cern.ch Larg calorimeter Delataille Christophe LAL
   Orsay +33 01 64 46 89 39 Taille@lal.in2p3.fr Larg calorimeter Borgeaud
   Pierre CEA Saclay +33 01 69 08 61 65 borgeaud@hep.saclay.cea.fr Larg
   calorimeter Andrieux Marie-Laure ISN Grenoble +33 04 76 28 41 28
   andrieux@isn.in2p3.fr Tile calorimeter Grenier Philippe Clermont Fd +33
   04 73 40 77 93 grenier@clrhp04.in2p3.fr Muon / CSC O'Connor Paul BNL
   poc@marlin.inst.bnl.gov Muon / MDT Richter Robert MPI Munchen +49 89 32
   354 358 Robert.Richter@cern.ch Muon / TGC Sasaki Osamu KEK +81 298 64
   54 36 sosamu@post.kek.jp Muon / RPC Vari Riccardo INFN Roma
   Riccardo.vari@cern.ch Magnet Control Tyrvainen Harri
   Harri.Tyrvainen@cern.ch DCS Hallgren Bjorn CERN +41 22 767 34 44
   Bjorn.Inge.Hallgren@cern.ch Crane Inigo-Golfin Joaquin
   Joaquin.Inigo-Golfin@cern.ch Cryogenics Kubischta Werner CERN +41 22
   767 57 67 Werner.Kubischta@cern.ch Radiation constraint Shupe Mike Uni
   Arizona +1 520 621 26 79 Shupe@uazhep.physics.arizona.edu ATLAS TC
   Dentan Martin CERN +41 22 767 59 34 Martin.Dentan@cern.ch
