http://wrf.fsl.noaa.gov/public_main.html

                                  [wrf.gif]

                                 [line.gif]

   WRF HOME

           PUBLIC INFO

                      ADMIN

                           CALENDAR

                                   GROUP HOME PAGES

                                                   DIRECTORY

                                                            USERS

                                                                 DOCS
                                                                 TALKS

                                                                      FORUM

                                                                           REAL
                                                                           TIME
                                                                           FCSTS

                                 [line.gif]

                      WRF PUBLIC INFORMATION HOME PAGE

   The WRF (Weather Research and Forecasting) Modeling System development
    project is a multi-year project being undertaken by several agencies.

   AFWA
          The USAF Air Force Weather Agency delivers tens of thousands of
          weather related products daily for their operational theaters in
          support of their charge to provide comprehensive forecast
          information to the US Air Force. This group will establish an
          early testbed for all aspects of the WRF modeling system.

   FSL
          The Forecast Systems Laboratory in NOAA (National Oceanic and
          Atmospheric Administration) integrates research efforts into
          operational activities. They lead efforts primarily in model
          initialization and physics parameterizations.

   NCAR
          The National Center for Atmospheric Research is charged with
          conducting basic research in the atmospheric sciences. This
          group provides expertise in the dynamics and physics of the
          code, and is responsible for the overall software architecture
          of the WRF model.

   NCEP
          The National Centers for Environmental Prediction provide the
          operational support for the civilian weather prediction for the
          US. This group is reponsible for the final deployment of the WRF
          model as an operational system.

   NSSL
          The National Severe Storms Laboratory focuses on testing
          real-time WRF forecasts in cooperation with other members of the
          Oklahoma Weather Center with a particular emphasis on severe
          weather and precipitation forecasts. This groups contributes to
          the development of new algorithms for the dynamical and physical
          cores, research on precipitation verification, and development
          of new analysis methods.

   OU
          The University of Oklahoma CAPS (Center for Analysis and
          Prediction of Storms) provides cutting edge use of
          instrumentation for very fine scale, short range severe storm
          forecasts. The CAPS expertise lies in radar assimilation, model
          testing and verification, and model physics.

                        [animail.gif]

           Send email to gill@ucar.edu for comments on this page.
