http://wincomm.grc.nasa.gov/about/index.shtml

   [Top01.gif]
   WINCOMM: Weather Information Communications NASA Glenn Research Center,
   Project Manager: Konstantinos Martzaklis [whtbox.gif]
   [Top03.gif] Aviation Safety Program Glenn Research Center NASA
   [whtbox.gif]

                                About News and Events Related Links


   About WINCOMM

   Overview
   Goals
   Objectives
   Approach
   Organization
   Contact Us


   Overview [ The Challenge • AWIN & WINCOMM • WINCOMM's Role ]

   The Challenge

   It is well accepted that air travel is one of the safest modes of
   transportation.  Aviation has enjoyed one of the best safety records of
   any form of transportation.  Although the aviation accident rate is
   extremely low, the projected growth in air travel through the early
   part of this century poses a serious safety challenge to the aviation
   community.

   The challenge is that the number of aviation accidents will
   significantly increase if the accident rate does not decline.  On
   February 12, 1997 the President called for an 80% reduction in the rate
   of fatal accidents within 10 years and a 90% reduction within 20
   years.  In response, NASA initiated the Aviation Safety Program in
   partnership with industry and other government agencies to address the
   Presidents National Aviation Safety Goal.  The Aviation Safety Program
   is a Level I program of NASAs Office of Aerospace Technology (OAT).

   The NASA Aviation Safety Program (AvSP) addresses the OAT Enabling
   Technology Goal of "reducing the aircraft accident rate by a factor of
   five within 10 years, and by a factor of 10 within 25 years."

   In 1997, shortly after the President announced the National Aviation
   Safety Goal, the Aeronautics Safety Investment Strategy Team (ASIST)
   defined many of the technical objectives of what was to become the
   AvSP.  The team recognized that weather was a major contributing factor
   in aviation incidents and accidents.  A key recommendation of the ASIST
   activity was for a significant effort in weather accident prevention.

   As a result, weather accident prevention (WxAP) has been incorporated
   as a Level II project of the AvSP.  Furthermore, the ASIST weather team
   produced a prioritized list of investment areas under weather accident
   prevention.  Weather data dissemination was considered to be the most
   critical and highest ranked priority on the list.





                           [ Home • About • News & Events • Links ]


         Responsible NASA Official: Bernice Beznoska,
         Bernice.A.Beznoska@grc.nasa.gov
         NASA Glenn Research Center, Cleveland, Ohio
         NASA Privacy Statement
         Site designed by Zin Technologies
         Site Curator: Joe Banks, joe.banks@zin-tech.com
