http://international.dep.anl.gov/TrainingCourses.htm

   expbannd.gif (1160 bytes)

                          exphombd.gif (189 bytes)

                               [exphorsa.gif]

     Argonne National Laboratory (ANL) has actively supported the
     transfer of peaceful applications of nuclear technology on an
     international scale throughout its existence.    ANL established its
     first international training activities shortly after the Laboratory
     was founded in 1946.   These activities were a part of the
     Eisenhower Atoms for Peace Program and were organized and
     administered under the International School of Nuclear Science and
     Engineering, which eventually became the Division of Educational
     Programs (DEP).   Participants in the International School came from
     throughout the world to learn about the new and rapidly developing
     field of nuclear reactor technology.   Many graduates of the
     International School later became the leaders of national programs
     involving peaceful applications of nuclear technology in their own
     countries.

     In 1976, ANL was designated by the Department of State as the host
     institution for U.S. participation in the International Atomic
     Energy Agencys new Nuclear Power Training Program.   This and the
     program that has evolved from this has been operated continuously
     for the past 24 years, and during this time 103 joint U.S./IAEA
     training courses have been organized and presented at Argonne.
     Nearly 3000 persons from approximately 120 countries have
     participated in these courses.   In the early years of the program
     the program covered a full range of topics in nuclear power.   More
     recently, courses have been focused on nuclear safety, including
     operational safety and radiation protection, and also on non-power
     topics such as energy planning and comparative analysis, nuclear
     electronics, project and program design, and environmental
     monitoring.   Each of the courses is evaluated at the conclusion of
     the course and, later and independently, by the IAEA.   Courses at
     Argonne are consistently highly rated by all concerned.

     From the early concentration on training, support provided by
     Argonne for U.S. participation in the IAEA has gradually broadened
     into other areas of the Agencys Technical Cooperation Program.
     Argonne first added the task of assisting the Agency in the
     recruitment of U.S. experts needed in the implementation of projects
     funded by the Agencys Department of Technical Cooperation (TC), and
     also began to assist the U.S. Department of State with the review
     and selection of projects for U.S. funding under the Footnote a\
     program.   These and other activities formally became a part of the
     Argonne program in 1985 when the interagency group known as the
     International Nuclear Technology Liaison Office (INTLO) was
     formed.   Under the charter of this program, Argonne began work to
     compile comprehensive information in database and normal file form
     on U.S. participation in the IAEA.   At the same time, an Argonne
     office was established in Washington with the responsibility to act
     as a general clearing house and point of coordination for
     participation by several U.S. agencies in the IAEA.   More recently,
     Argonne has provided a significant level of support for U.S. efforts
     to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the Agencys Technical
     Cooperation Program.

                                [exphorsa.gif]

                                Sponsored by:

                      United States Department of State
                                Washington, DC
                      International Atomic Energy Agency
                               Vienna, Austria
                         Argonne National Laboratory
                                 Argonne, IL

                                [exphorsa.gif]

                          exphombd.gif (189 bytes)
