http://www.cdc.gov/foodsafety/


   Centers for Disease Control and Prevention

   CDC Home Search Health Topics A-Z
   Food Safety Office

   CDC's role

             FAQs

                 Hot topics

                           Search

                                 About us


                        • Home
                        • Diseases/Pathogens
                        • Environmental Hazards
                        • Foods and high-risk groups
                        • Outbreak investigations
                        • Labs and surveillance
                        • Educational resources
                        • Technical information
                        • Publications and articles
                        • Food safety image library
                        • Congressional Testimonies
                        • Partners
                        • Additional links
                        • Feedback

   Many people do not think about food safety until a food-related illness
   affects them or a family member. While the food supply in the United
   States is one of the safest in the world, CDC estimates that 76 million
   people get sick, more than 300,000 are hospitalized, and 5,000
   Americans die each year from foodborne illness. Preventing foodborne
   illness and death remains a major public health challenge.


   Listeriosis and Pregnancy: What is your risk?

   Overview of CDC Food Safety Programs and Activities

   Diagnosis and Management of Foodborne Illness: A Primer for Physicians

   Gateway to Government Food Safety Information

   Reporting Foodborne Illness



   Fight BAC! and the Partnership for Food Safety Education
                 win CDC/ATSDR Horizon Award!

   Congratulations to Fight BAC! and the Partnership for Food Safety
   Education which received the CDC/ATSDR Horizon Award at CDC's Health
   Education Day on Thursday, November 29, 2001. The Horizon Award is
   awarded to a program developed by CDC or in collaboration with
   partners, which has been in existence for two to four years and which
   exhibits significant potential to substantially and positively affect
   the practice of health education.

   The Partnership, formed in 1997, is a public-private coalition
   dedicated to educating the public about safe food handling to help
   reduce foodborne illness. Members represent industry, government and
   consumer groups, as well as alliances with corporate America. Members
   also represent all aspects of the food and consumer industry from meat
   and produce to marketers, and allied trade as well as government. The
   Fight BAC! campaign, developed in conjunction with the President's
   National Food Safety Initiative, is a far-reaching, ambitious and
   consumer-friendly public education campaign focused on safe food
   handling. The goal of the Fight BAC! campaign is to educate consumers
   on four simple steps they can take to fight foodborne bacteria and
   reduce their risk of foodborne illness.

                               FightBac! logo


                Accessibility | Privacy Policy Notice | FOIA

                    CDC Home | Search | Health Topics A-Z

                   This page last reviewed August 4, 2001

                 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
                   National Center for Infectious Diseases
                 Division of Bacterial and Mycotic Diseases
