http://daschle.senate.gov/privacy.html


   [760_r1_c1.jpg]                  [spacer.gif]
   Banner Photographs by Greg Latza [spacer.gif]
   [USEMAP:760_r3_c1.jpg]           [spacer.gif]


                               Privacy Policy

   Thank you for visiting my web site. Protecting the personal privacy of
        individuals who use the Internet is a priority of mine, and I
    appreciate the opportunity to describe to you the policies I have put
   in place to safeguard the privacy of individuals who visit my Web site.
   If you have questions or concerns about my Internet privacy policy, or
   any other issues involving the Internet, I want to hear about them and
    hope you will contact me, by electronic mail, telephone, or mail, to
                         let me know your opinions.

     My basic Internet privacy policy is simple: my web site collects no
      personal information about you when you visit the site unless you
    choose to provide that information to me during your visit so that I
      can contact you about an issue you have raised or help you with a
   problem. Let me describe more specifically the type of information that
   may be gathered when you visit my web site and how that information is
                                  handled.

               Information Collected and Stored Automatically

     The U.S. Senate collects aggregate data about visits to Senate web
    sites, such as statistics that show which parts of each web site were
   visited the most. The following information is also collected when you
    visit any U.S. Senate web site: the domain from which you access the
   Senate web site, the date and time of your visit, the pages you visit,
    and the address of the web site, if any, that provided the link from
    which you reached the Senate site. This information is gathered only
   for the purpose of enabling us to improve the online service we provide
                      to visitors to Senate web sites.

    No individual identifying or personal information (such as your name)
    is automatically gathered when you visit any Senate web site. My web
    site does not use 'cookies' or other means to track your visit to my
   site in any way. To learn more about the Senate's Internet security and
              privacy policy online, please go to this address:
                    http://www.senate.gov/security.html.

                     If You Send Us Personal Information

   My web site is set up not to collect any personal information about you
    when you visit the site unless you choose to provide that information
    to us. My web site has an online web form that you can use to contact
    me by sending me an electronic mail message expressing your views or
   concerns or asking for assistance with a particular problem involving a
     federal agency. To send me e-mail, the online web form asks you for
   your name, address, e-mail address, and, if you wish, your home or work
    telephone numbers. I use this information provided by you to contact
   you about the matter you expressed your views about and to provide any
   casework assistance I can regarding problems you may be experiencing in
   dealing with a government agency. This information will be available to
    members of my staff so they can help me in responding to your message
                                 or request.

      If you are requesting help with a casework matter, it also may be
    necessary for my office to share the information you provide with the
   government agency from which you are requesting assistance, in order to
   respond to your request. Other than when needed to perform constituent
       casework at your request, or in the course of an authorized law
      enforcement investigation or emergency posing an imminent risk to
         public safety, my office will share no personal information
      communicated through my web site with any outside organization or
                                 individual.

    My office tabulates comments received through my web site concerning
      legislation and government policy issues so that I will be fully
     informed about the views of constituents. From time to time, I come
    across a comment made by a constituent, or a situation described by a
   constituent, in an e-mail message (as well as postal mail, phone calls,
    and faxes) that I feel makes a point of such general interest that I
         would like to refer to it in a speech, or include it in the
        Congressional Record, or make some other use of it, either in
   connection with debate in the Senate or by sharing it with the relevant
   government agency. My staff makes every effort in such cases to contact
    the author first. If you intend your message to be confidential, and
     would prefer that it not be used in such a way, please feel free to
      advise me of your preference in the message, so I can be sure to
   respect your wishes and see that your views are held entirely within my
                                   office.

                            Links to Other Sites

   My web site has links to other useful sites on the Internet, including
   sites of other government agencies and sites relating to South Dakota.
      If you follow any link that takes you to a location that does not
   include 'senate.gov' in the address, you will have left the Senate web
    server and you will need to refer to that site's own privacy policy.

   [grass.jpg]
