http://www.ots.ca.gov/boosters/cpswcontest.asp

      Welcome to California California Home Wednesday, January 30, 2002
                            Welcome to California
   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
                skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree



                          Office of Traffic Safety

                                OTS Profile
                           Campaigns & Coalitions
                               OTS Kids Site
                           Grants & Program Info
                                 Press Room
                                Traffic Talk
                           OTS Newsletter Tracks
                                 Statistics
                                  HotLinks
                                Kids N Cars
                              Customer Survey


                                  OTS logo


     Many of our publications require the use of Acobat Reader Adobe PDF
          (pdf) format. You can download the Adobe Reader for free.




          Office of Traffic Safety



                                         __________ search
                                     ( )  My CA (*)  OTS' Web Site

   Child Passenger Safety Poster Contest

   buckle-up

   Hey kids, we're looking for your best traffic safety artwork! Just in
   time for Child Passenger Safety Week, the OTS is holding a poster
   contest to the best artwork that illustrates correct traffic safety
   habits. We want to see your creative designs that show how to ride
   safely in the car and on the road using a seat belt, child safety seat
   or booster seat. You can use one of our slogans or come up with your
   own.

   Entries are due by January 27th, so pick up your pens and pencils and
   show us your best traffic safety art. Winning entries will be displayed
   at a Sacramento area DMV office. Be sure to read our contest rules
   below and good luck!

                    CHILD PASSENGER SAFETY POSTER CONTEST
              Child Passenger Safety Week February 10-16, 2002

   Eligibility: The contest is open to students K-6 grades.
   Categories: K-3 and 4-6 grades
   Rules: Minimum 8 " X 11" to maximum 16" X 20"
   No thicker than ½ inch
   Hand drawn by students only
   No stickers allowed
   No copyrighted materials
   Illustrations must be "buckle-up" related
   Use an existing or original Child Passenger Safety slogan with positive
   and correct safety behavior.
   Slogans: "Boosters are for Big Kids"
   "Buckle upKids in Back"
   "Love Me, Buckle Me"
   "Car Seats Give Babies the Best Hug"
   Any other slogans created by participating students
   Entry form information: Please include the following information on the
   back of each poster:

   Child's name
   School name
   Age
   Grade
   Teacher's name
   Name, phone number and email address of the school contact person

   Please mail entries to:

   Janet Lane
   California Office of Traffic Safety
   7000 Franklin Blvd., Suite 440
   Sacramento, CA 95823

   All entries must be received no later than January 27, 2002. Winners
   will be announced February 7, 2002.
   Prizes: Bicycle helmets
   Child safety seats and booster seats
   Sweatshirts
   Other prizes

                                     ###

                  Back to Top of Page
   © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor.
   Conditions of Use | Privacy Policy | Contact Us
