http://sflwww.er.usgs.gov/publications/fs/49-01/

   USGS
   South Florida Information Access





   SOFIA home


   Searching for something?
   __________ Go
   Site Map
   Help


   Projects
   by Title
   by Investigator
   by Region
   by Topic
   by Program


   Products
   Publications
   Results
   Synthesis


   Information
   Personnel
   About SOFIA
   Education
   Upcoming Events


   Data
   Database
   Data Exchange
   Metadata
   publications > fact sheet > FS-49-01

   U.S. Department of the Interior
   U.S. Geological Survey
   FS-49-01

An Investigation of the Interrelation of Everglades Hydrology and Florida Bay
              Dynamics to Ecosystem Processes in South Florida

     The vast freshwater-wetland and coastal-marine ecosystems of south
       Florida have been subjected to major disturbances over the last
      century. In addition to dynamic changes caused by acts of nature
      (fires, storms, floods, droughts, freezes), these ecosystems have
       undergone numerous human-imposed transformations, ranging from
     alteration of flow quantities and drainage patterns to expansion of
      agricultural activity to introduction of exotic species. However,
   despite recognition of the effects that these natural and human-imposed
      disturbances and their supporting infrastructure (canals, levees,
     highways) have on these ecosystems, hydrologic responses and biotic
            shifts caused by them have not been well documented.

INTRODUCTION


     satellite image of the souther inland and coastal systems study area
      Figure 1. Satellite image of the Southern Inland and Coastal Systems
   study area. (White rectangle identifies area photographed in figure 2.)
                                                           [larger image]

   This project is part of the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) South Florida
   Ecosystem Program (McPherson and others, 1999). The primary goal of the
   project is to identify and document the interrelation of the responses
   of freshwater-wetland and coastal-marine ecosystems to past and present
   disturbances, both natural and human imposed. The project is
   synthesizing findings of geological, hydrological, and ecological
   investigations within the Southern Inland and Coastal Systems (SICS)
   study area that encompasses the interface of the Taylor Slough and
   C-111 drainage basins of the Everglades with nearshore embayments of
   Florida Bay (fig. 1). The objectives of the project are to: 1) document
   the historical effects of past disturbances, 2) provide background
   scientific insight needed for ecological analyses of species habitat
   and sustainability, 3) identify cause-and-effect hydrological and
   ecological linkages, and 4) produce a summary report that presents any
   findings that link hydrological and ecological changes to past
   management practices. An overview of the project is presented in this
   Fact Sheet.

PROJECT APPROACH

   The following tasks are being conducted to fulfill the project
   objectives:
     * Historical pre-development (1850 vs. 1930) vegetative and
       hydrologic conditions and linkages are being reconstructed by
       examining pollen in radiometrically dated cores and by analyses of
       aerial photographs (Willard and others, 2001).
     * Recent (1996-2000) hydrologic conditions--flow paths, water
       budgets, hydroperiods (average annual periods of inundation of
       specific areas)--are being simulated by Geographic Information
       System (GIS) techniques (Ball and Schaffranek, 2000) and a
       hydrodynamic model (Swain, 1999) that incorporates recent
       hydrologic process-study findings (Schaffranek, 1999).
     * Characteristics of the flora and fauna (species composition,
       distribution and their changes through time) are being studied and
       documented from aerial photography and recent field surveys. These
       findings are being used in support of ecological analyses based on
       Across Trophic Level System Simulation (ATLSS) models (Comiskey and
       Gross, 2000). See http://atlss.org/.
     * Critical parameters and interrelations, especially those subject to
       the effects of regulation, that function within the SICS ecosystem
       to control hydrological and ecological linkages, are being
       investigated by performing sensitivity analyses using the
       hydrodynamic model (Swain, 1999) coupled with appropriate ATLSS
       models or their derivatives, such as crocodile, estuarine fish
       (Cline and others, 2000), and wading bird species.

INTEGRATED PROJECT COMPONENTS

   This synthesis project consists of three integrated complementary
   components: 1) investigation of the timing of past hydrological and
   ecological changes in the historical component, 2) reconstruction of
   past and recent wetland hydroperiods in the hydrological component, and
   3) analysis of the correlation of noted hydrological changes to shifts
   in biotic species in the ecological component. Scientists from the
   Biological Resources, Geologic, and Water Resources Divisions of the
   USGS are contributing historical hydrological, and ecological findings
   and data to this effort.


   aerial photo taken in 1940 showing mangrove marsh    aerial photo taken in
                                                     1994 showing mangrove marsh
   Figure 2. Aerial photographs taken in 1940 and 1994 showing mangrove
   marsh transformation. (A star in the photographs identifies the
   location of a core taken in 1995 for pollen and isotopic analyses.)
   [click on photos for larger version.]

Historical Component

   Floral and faunal records are being analyzed and correlated with the
   hydrologic record since the early 1900's as determined by isotopic
   analysis (Holmes and others, 1997). This effort is supplying important
   information about the magnitude of sea-level rise and timing of storm
   events in the mangrove marsh ecotone of the SICS ecosystem. Core
   analyses indicate that much of the vegetation transformation along the
   mangrove fringe of Florida Bay occurred in the early to mid 20th
   century and appears to be the result of hydrological shifts unrelated
   to sea-level rise (Willard and others, 2001). Analysis of historical
   aerial photographs of the southwest coast of Everglades National Park
   reveals that the position of the mangrove marsh ecotone has migrated
   substantially at some locations and minimally at others (Smith, 1999).
   Evidence of the transformation of a mangrove marsh ecotone is
   illustrated in the 1940 and 1994 aerial photographs shown in figure 2.
   The area pictured in the photographs is a 1 by 1.2 km region (see white
   rectangle in figure 1) near the mouth of Taylor River that connects
   Taylor Slough with Little Madeira Bay. The inland lake outlined in the
   1940 photograph has been encroached on and transformed into a mangrove
   marsh as shown in the 1994 photograph.

Hydrological Component

   Past hydroperiods and flow conditions in the SICS ecosystem are being
   reconstructed by GIS and numerical model techniques to investigate
   correlations to natural and imposed disturbances. Daily hydroperiod
   maps for 1996 to 2000 are being generated by GIS techniques (Ball and
   Schaffranek, 2000) from continuous water-level data obtained from
   National Park Service, South Florida Water Management District, and
   USGS databases and land-surface elevation data collected by the USGS
   National Mapping Division (Desmond and others, 2000). Hydroperiod maps,
   illustrated for 1998 and 1999 in figure 3, are being used to
   investigate anthropogenic influences and to isolate any effects of
   recent management practices on hydrologic shifts. Flow conditions
   simulated by the SICS hydrodynamic model (Swain, 1999) are being used
   to investigate the interaction of hydrologic processes in the
   freshwater wetlands and dynamic forces of Florida Bay in controlling
   flow and salinity conditions in the mangrove ecotone for analysis in
   the ecological component.

Ecological Component

   Findings obtained by USGS and National Park Service scientists in
   ecological studies, both historical and recent, are being incorporated
   as an integral part of the synthesis. These ecological studies are
   providing a more precise characterization of extant vegetative
   communities based on analyses of historical aerial photographs dating
   from 1927. The vegetation classifications are providing calibration
   information to supplement sediment core analyses conducted in the
   historical component. Finer resolution hydrologic inputs also are being
   generated for development of new indicator species models in a
   collaborative effort between the SICS hydrodynamic and ATLSS ecological
   modeling groups. A multi-year SICS hydrodynamic and salinity simulation
   has been generated and prepared for input to the development of ATLSS
   crocodile and estuarine fish models.


   hydroperiod map for the SICS ecosystem in 1998 legend for hydroperiod
   maps hydroperiod map for SICS ecosystem for 1999
   Figure 3. Hydroperiod maps of the SICS ecosystem for 1998 and 1999.
   [click on graphics for larger versions.]

PLANNED PRODUCT

   The major product planned upon completion of this project is a summary
   report that describes, both for the past and present, hydrological and
   ecological aspects of the SICS ecosystem, defines the range and
   sensitivity of hydrological conditions that affect biotic shifts, and
   identifies those conditions that are amenable to either active or
   passive management to sustain or improve the ecological health of the
   ecosystem.

References

     Ball, M.H., and Schaffranek, R.W., 2000, Regional simulation of
     inundation patterns in the south Florida Everglades, in Eggleston,
     J.R., Embry, T.L., Mooney, R.H., Wedderburn, Leslie, Goodwin, C.R.,
     Henkel, H.S., Pegram, K.M., and Enright, T.J., (compilers), December
     11-15, 2000, Naples FL, U.S. Geological Survey Open-File Report
     00-449, p. 10-11.

     Cline, J.C., Lorenz, Jerome, and DeAngelis, D.L., 2000, ALFISHES: A
     size-structured and spatially-explicit model for predicting the
     impact of hydrology on the resident fishes of the Everglades
     mangrove zone of Florida Bay, in Greater Everglades Ecosystem
     Restoration (GEER) Science Conference, December 11-15, 2000, Naples,
     FL, p. 70.

     Comiskey, E.J., and Gross, L.J., 2000, Spatially-explicit species
     index models in application to Everglades restoration, in Greater
     Everglades Ecosystem Restoration (GEER) Science Conference, December
     11-15, 2000, Naples, FL, p. 384.

     Desmond, G.B., Cyran, Edward, Caruso, Vince, Schupe, Gordon, Glover,
     Robert, and Henkle, Charles, 2000, Topography of the Florida
     Everglades, in Greater Everglades Ecosystem Resoration (GEER)
     Science Conference, December 11-15, 2000, Naples, FL, p. 284-285.

     Holmes, C.W., Marot, Marci, Willard, D.A., Weimer, Lisa, and
     Brewster-Wingard, G.L., 1997, Methods to establish the timing of
     ecological changes in south Florida--good, better, best, in Gerould,
     Sarah, and Higer, Aaron, (eds.), U.S. Geological Survey Program on
     the South Florida Ecosystem--Proceedings of the Technical Symposium
     in Ft. Lauderdale, FL, August 25-27, 1997, U.S. Geological Survey
     Open-File Report 97-385, p. 33-34.

     McPherson, B.F., Gerould, Sarah, and Higer, Aaron, 1999, U.S.
     Geological Survey science for restoration of south Florida: the
     South Florida Ecosystem Program, U.S. Geological Survey Fact Sheet
     FS-061-99, 4 p.

     Schaffranek, R.W., 1999, Hydrologic studies in support of south
     Florida ecosystem restoration, in Hotchkiss, R.H., and Glade,
     Michael, (eds.), Proceedings ASCE 2000 Joint Conference on Water
     Resources Engineering and Water Resources Planning and Management,
     June 6-9, 1999, Tempe, AZ, 8 p.

     Smith III, T.J., 1999, Physical forcings and vegetation patterns
     across mangrove/marsh ecotones in southwest Florida, in Program &
     Abstracts 1999 Florida Bay and Adjacent Marine Systems Science
     Conference, November 1-5, 1999, Key Largo, FL, p. 251-252.

     Swain, E.D., 1999, Numerical representation of dynamic flow and
     transport at the Everglades/Florida Bay interface, in Proceedings
     IAHR Third International Symposium on Ecohydraulics, July 13-16,
     1999, Salt Lake City, UT, 9 p.

     Willard, D.A., Holmes, C.W., and Weimer, L.M., 2001, The Florida
     Everglades ecosystem: climatic and anthropogenic impacts over the
     last two millennia, in Wardlaw, B.R., (ed.), Paleoecology of South
     Florida, Bulletins of American Paleontology, v. 361.


   For more information contact:
   Raymond W. Schaffranek
   U.S. Geological Survey
   12201 Sunrise Valley Drive
   National Center, Mail Stop 430
   Reston, Virginia 20192
   (703) 648-5891 (voice);
   (703) 648-5484 (fax);
   rws@usgs.gov Thomas J. Smith III
   U.S. Geological Survey
   Center for Coastal Geology and Regional Marine Studies
   600 Fourth Street South
   St. Petersburg, FL 33701
   (727) 803-8747 x3130 (voice);
   (727) 803-2032 (fax);
   Tom_J_Smith@usgs.gov
   Charles W. Holmes
   U.S. Geological Survey
   Center for Coastal Geology and Regional Marine Studies
   600 Fourth Street South
   St. Petersburg, FL 33701
   (727) 893-3100 (voice); (727) 803-2032 (fax); cholmes@usgs.gov

                        Or visit related websites at:
      http://atlss.org, http://time.er.usgs.gov, http://sofia.usgs.gov.

   National Park Service logo Partial funding for some projects
   contributing scientific findings and (or) data to this investigation
   has been provided by the Department of the Interior's Critical
   Ecosystems Studies Initiative administered by the National Park
   Service.
              _________________________________________________

   Click here for a printable version of this fact sheet (note: document
   will open in a new browser window)

   For more information contact:

   Related information:

     SOFIA Project: Interrelation of Everglades Hydrology and Florida Bay
     Dynamics to Ecosystem Processes in South Florida

     SOFIA Project: Tides and Inflows in the Mangrove Ecotone (TIME)
     Model Development

   U.S. Department of the Interior, U.S. Geological Survey, Center for
   Coastal Geology
   This page is: http://sofia.usgs.gov/publications/fs/49-01/
   Comments and suggestions? Contact: Heather Henkel - Webmaster
   Last updated: 20 December, 2001 @ 02:59 PM (KP)
