http://www.florence.ars.usda.gov/history.htm

                            About Coastal Plains

    Mission Statement

   Our mission is to anticipate, identify, and solve natural resource
   problems in agriculture that are important to the USA in general and
   the SE Coastal Plain in particular. The staff conducts both basic and
   applied research, emphasizes total resource management, and currently
   focuses on three issues. In soil management, we solve problems of
   erosion, soil strength, and soil fertility. In water management, we
   solve problems caused by too much or too little rain, by
   non-point-source agricultural pollution, and by difficulties disposing
   of animal waste. In plant management, we improve cotton germplasm and
   increase both sustainability and competitiveness of crop production. We
   investigate these issues on major field crops (cotton, corn, soybeans,
   small grains) and high-value horticultural crops. Our mission is
   pursued in cooperation with other agencies, universities, and private
   industry.

    History

   In 1959, the Committee on Appropriations of the U.S. Senate requested
   the Secretary of Agriculture to report on the scope of research results
   expected from existing facilities and the feasibility of additional
   facilities. Results of this study were published in Senate Document 59,
   86th Congress, entitled "Facility Needs - Soil and Water Conservation
   Research." This document sets forth research and facility needs for
   each region and physiographic area in the United States. The needs
   included a facility for the Atlantic Coastal Plains, preferably at the
   Pee Dee Experiment Station, which was operated by the South Carolina
   Agricultural Experiment Station. The facilities would provide offices,
   laboratories, greenhouses, and equipment to support a research program
   to attack the many diverse problems of soil and water management in the
   southeastern Coastal Plains. In 1961, Congress made funds available for
   the design and construction, and the Coastal Plains Soil and Water
   Conservation Research Center was completed in January 1964.

   Return to ARS Florence Home Page
