http://www.vetapp.uscourts.gov/Home/ReportofSixthJudicialConference.pdf

   United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims THE SIXTH JUDICIAL
   CONFERENCE OF THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR VETERANS CLAIMS
   Monday and Tuesday September 18-19, 2000 The Crystal City Sheraton
   Alexandria, Virginia 1 SIXTH JUDICIAL CONFERENCE CONFERENCE SCHEDULE OF
   EVENTS First Plenary Session Opening Ceremony Remarks The Honorable
   William H. Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the United States State of the
   Court Chief Judge Frank Q. Nebeker Rules of Practice and Procedure
   Robert F. Comeau, Clerk of the Court Morning Breakout Sessions
   Compensation & Pension Examinations: Expert Testimony or Physical
   Assessment? Lewis R. Coulson, M.D., VA Chicago Health Care System
   Evolving and Expanding Role of Veterans Benefits Jurisprudence of the
   Federal Circuit. Professor James T. O'Reilly, College of Law,
   University of Cincinnati (Chair) Mr. Ronald Flagg, Sidley & Austin,
   Washington, D.C. Mr. Richard J. Hipolit, Office of VA General Counsel
   Mr. Todd Hughes, Commercial Litigation Branch, Department of Justice
   Approximately 16% of BVA Denials are Appealed to the CAVC: Are
   Meritorious Appeals Falling Through the Cracks? Mr. David Landers,
   Disabled American Veterans (Chair) Mr. Ronald Abrams, National Veterans
   Legal Service Program Mr. Brian Robertson, The Veterans Consortium Pro
   Bono Program Mr. Keith D. Snyder, Olney, MD Quality Control of Veterans
   Benefits Decisions Mr. Richard B. Standefer, Board of Veterans' Appeals
   Mr. Robert Epley, Compensation and Pension Service, Department of
   Veterans Affairs Ms. Ruth Whichard, Compensation and Pension Service,
   Department of Veterans Affairs Update on Section 5904 Fees and EAJA
   Issues Mr. Ron Garvin, Office of VA General Counsel (Chair) Mr. Barton
   Stichman, National Veterans Legal Service Program Ms. Julie Clifford,
   Alexandria, VA 2 SIXTH JUDICIAL CONFERENCE Second Plenary Session
   Restructuring the VBA Joseph Thompson, Under Secretary for Benefits,
   Department of Veterans Affairs Afternoon Breakout Sessions Compensation
   & Pension Examinations: Expert Testimony or Physical Assessment? Lewis
   R. Coulson, M.D., VA Chicago Health Care System Evolving and Expanding
   Role of Veterans Benefits Jurisprudence of the Federal Circuit.
   Professor James T. O'Reilly, College of Law, University of Cincinnati
   (Chair) Mr. Ronald Flagg, Sidley & Austin, Washington, D.C. Mr. Richard
   J. Hipolit, Office of VA General Counsel Mr. Todd Hughes, Commercial
   Litigation Branch, Department of Justice Approximately 16% of BVA
   Denials are Appealed to the CAVC: Are Meritorious Appeals Falling
   Through the Cracks? Mr. David Landers, Disabled American Veterans
   (Chair) Mr. Ronald Abrams, National Veterans Legal Service Program Mr.
   Brian Robertson, The Veterans Consortium Pro Bono Program Mr. Keith D.
   Snyder, Olney, MD Quality Control of Veterans Benefits Decisions Mr.
   Richard B. Standefer, Board of Veterans' Appeals Mr. Robert Epley,
   Compensation and Pension Service, Department of Veterans Affairs Ms.
   Ruth Whichard, Compensation and Pension Service, Department of Veterans
   Affairs Update on Section 5904 Fees and EAJA Issues Mr. Ron Garvin,
   Office of VA General Counsel (Chair) Mr. Barton Stichman, National
   Veterans Legal Service Program Ms. Julie Clifford, Alexandria, VA Third
   Plenary Session Court Jurisprudence and History Professor William Fox,
   Columbus School of Law, Catholic University Fourth Plenary Session 3
   SIXTH JUDICIAL CONFERENCE Application and Enforcement of the Court's
   Procedural Rules. Ms. Sandra Montrose, U.S. Court of Appeals for
   Veterans Claims (Moderator) Ms. Joan Moriarty, Office of VA General
   Counsel Mr. Ronald L. Smith, Disabled American Veterans Ms. Barbara
   Cook, Cincinnati, OH Ethics Colonel Charles Myers, USAF Retired, U.S.
   Air Force Academy Closing Remarks PROCEEDINGS September 18, 2000 FIRST
   PLENARY SESSION JUDGE GREENE: We are grateful to the Disabled American
   Veterans color guard from Chapter 10, Arlington-Fairfax, for
   presentation of the colors. Please be seated. Good morning, and it is a
   beautiful morning. Welcome to the United States Court of Appeals for
   Veterans Claims, Sixth Judicial Conference, Judicial Conference 2000.
   As you recall from our last conference, Chief Judge Nebeker appointed
   me as the chairman, and I accepted that graciously as the junior judge,
   and I promised you that we would meet elsewhere, so I took five trips
   to Hawaii to find the appropriate setting, but none I found better than
   this. So I'd like to thank all of you for attending, and on behalf of
   the Chief Judge and the judges of the Court, I will convene the
   conference. This conference has been called under Section 7286 of Title
   38, United States Code, to consider the business of the Court and the
   improvement of the administration of justice within the Court's
   jurisdiction. The judges of the Court, members of the Court's bar, and
   other persons active in the legal profession and veterans affairs being
   present, this conference is ready to proceed. All of you are very
   important people. I do have, however, a few individuals I would like to
   point out who are present with us today, and ask them to stand briefly.
   The Honorable Leigh Bradley, General Counsel, Department of Veterans
   Affairs. (Applause.) 4 SIXTH JUDICIAL CONFERENCE JUDGE GREENE: Her
   Deputy General Counsel, John Thompson -- Jack Thompson. (Applause.)
   JUDGE GREENE: I haven't had a chance to see him this morning, but the
   Chairman of the Board of Veterans' Appeals, Dane Clark. (Applause.)
   JUDGE GREENE: Welcome, Dane. Mr. David Addlestone, Chair of the Court
   of Appeals for the Veterans Claims Committee on Admissions and
   Practice. (Applause.) JUDGE GREENE: Mike Hannon, Chair of the Court of
   Appeals for Veterans Claims, Committee on Rules. (Applause.) JUDGE
   GREENE: And, of course, as a junior judge, I would be remiss if I did
   not introduce my fellow colleagues on the Court, starting with the next
   junior judge, Jonathan Steinberg. (Applause.) JUDGE GREENE: Judge Don
   Ivers. (Applause.) JUDGE GREENE: Judge Ron Holdaway. (Applause.) JUDGE
   GREENE: Judge Jack Farley. (Applause.) JUDGE GREENE: Judge Ken Kramer.
   (Applause.) JUDGE GREENE: And certainly not least, Chief Judge Frank Q.
   Nebeker, who will introduce our very special guest to you this morning.
   (Applause.) CHIEF JUDGE NEBEKER: Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. A
   veteran, the Chief Justice of 5 SIXTH JUDICIAL CONFERENCE the United
   States. (Applause.) CHIEF JUSTICE REHNQUIST: Thank you, Chief Judge
   Nebeker, for your kind introduction. I hope you'll forgive me my rather
   hoarse voice. I'm in the midst of a cold. It's a pleasure to join you
   today for the Sixth Judicial Conference and to celebrate the 10th
   anniversary of the United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims.
   In October, 1989, I had the honor of presiding over the convocation of
   this Court, swearing in Judge Farley and Judge Kramer. That event,
   attended by some 250 lawyers and veterans, took place in the ceremonial
   courtroom of the United States Courthouse across the river. There was
   much enthusiasm that day among the supporters who gathered together for
   the ceremonies, and I'm very pleased to observe from the vantage point
   of over a decade now that this enthusiasm was well founded. The Court
   has not only met, but exceeded the hopeful designs of its creators.
   Before the establishment of this Court, veterans whose claims for
   benefits were denied by the Veterans' Administration were afforded no
   independent review of these decisions. The Board of Veterans' Appeals
   provided the final forum at the conclusion of what could be an arduous
   process. Many people felt that veterans were being denied the right
   accorded many other citizens to go to court and challenge similar
   agency decisions. It's easy to see why the process left many veterans
   feeling frustrated and powerless. Legislation subjecting BVA benefits
   decisions to judicial review was considered by Congress as early as
   1952, and the span between the time of first consideration and final
   enactment simply illustrates the old maxim that "judicial reform is no
   sport for the short winded." But the status quo persisted until a crush
   of post-Vietnam claims in the 1970s and '80s turned the spotlight on a
   process in need of reform. Individual veterans and several veterans'
   advocacy groups increasingly pressed for some sort of judicial review.
   So for the sixth time in the nation's history, Congress established a
   court of national jurisdiction without geographical limits. It was
   called at its inception the United States Court of Veterans Appeals.
   Since March 1st, 1999, it's been known as the United States Court of
   Appeals for Veterans Claims. This new court saw immediate action, and
   in its first five years, over 7,000 appeals were filed. In the second
   five years, the pace increased with almost 10,000 cases filed. Even so,
   since 1995, the Court has actually reduced the average time from filing
   to disposition while dealing with a significantly greater case load.
   The Court's work has also changed the way the BVA decides claims. In
   the decade prior to this Court's existence, the Board of Veterans'
   Appeals denied well over 60 6 SIXTH JUDICIAL CONFERENCE percent of
   claims. In the decade since this Court's creation, the Board has denied
   fewer than 40 percent of the claims before it. Far more important than
   bare statistics, of course, are the lives of the individuals
   represented in each of those cases. As one writer has recently
   observed, this Court's work has resulted in veterans being granted
   benefits "in thousands of claims which would have been denied before
   judicial review. For many disabled veterans and their families, this
   has meant the difference between a life with dignity and a life without
   it." I commend all those who have been responsible for the remarkable
   successes of this Court during its first decade. May it continue to
   fill its promise in the years to come. Thank you. (Applause.) JUDGE
   GREENE: It is quite a historical event and a pleasure to have the Chief
   Justice with us today. It's not often that we can celebrate a 10th
   anniversary three times. As you recall, the statute created the Court
   in 1988. The first three judges came on board in 1989, and then all
   seven judges were brought on board as a full court in August of 1990.
   Thus, the 10th anniversary again. So the state of the Court is good,
   and I now present to you our Chief Judge, who will tell you about that.
   (Applause.) CHIEF JUDGE NEBEKER: Good morning, and welcome to all of
   you. This, as you were told, is a State of the Court Address that
   serves both as a hail and a farewell. I'm happy to have the opportunity
   to greet and to address you. That's the hail part. The farewell part,
   of course, is that this will be my final State of the Court of Address.
   As most of you probably know, I'm going to retire from the Court on the
   6th of October after having completed over ten years. I consider it a
   special and unique privilege to have served as the Chief Judge of the
   Court for this past, and its first, decade. Particularly, I pay tribute
   to the Court staff, the finest staff ever to serve a court, and I think
   we should acknowledge that right now. (Applause.) CHIEF JUDGE NEBEKER:
   I will soon hand over the symbolic gavel to Judge Kenneth B. Kramer,
   who has escorted the Chief Justice out of the room and out of the
   building. Ken, I wish you well. You have five wonderful and brilliant
   colleagues. Treat them and the staff well. Now, by the way, speaking of
   my colleagues, I hope that even after I've left, they will continue to
   operate under our mutual and informal agreement to refrain from using
   footnotes in opinions. 7 SIXTH JUDICIAL CONFERENCE (Laughter.) CHIEF
   JUDGE NEBEKER: We are the second court -- there are only two courts in
   the United States that refrain from footnotes in the opinions of the
   Court. Such a practice is appropriate, particularly here where our
   mission is to apply the rule of law in a way that is clear and
   understandable to everyone, even those who are not trained in the law.
   I remind my colleagues of a story I told them some time ago. You know,
   a footnote in a judicial opinion is like a knock on your door in the
   middle of the night on your wedding night. You'll get up and answer it,
   but it better be damned important. (Laughter.) CHIEF JUDGE NEBEKER:
   Now, let me speak of what the Court has done in getting to our 11th
   year of operation. We have 13 volumes and we're working on the 14th of
   precedent opinions. As of July, 2000, there were 17,335 cases decided
   both on the merits and by dismissals. The Supreme Court granted
   certiorari in one case and affirmed. I challenge any other court in
   United States to that record in ten years. Based on the present number
   of notices of appeal -- over 200 a month -- we can expect the Court's
   future case load to run about 2400 to 2500 cases per year. While the
   Court's case load is continuing at its relatively high rate, it is
   important that the Court continue to operate at full strength. I hope
   that after the incoming President takes office, there will not be a
   long wait as there has been in the past for an appointment to fill the
   vacancy created by my retirement. During the years 2004 and 2005 , the
   terms of five of the remaining six judges will expire, and that raises
   the specter of a grave institutional crisis. When I last spoke to you
   in September of 1998, I brought you up-to-date on bills then pending in
   Congress that would have permitted early retirement of two associate
   judges opting by seniority, thus to stagger at least two of the
   positions. The legislation then pending was never enacted. The
   enactment that was adopted proved to be of no help whatsoever. The
   legislation has not really solved the problem and something must be
   done or Judge Greene and my successor will be all alone in the Court in
   mid-September, 2005. And under Title 38, a two-judge court is not
   provided for. Even a three-judge court would be unable to keep up with
   the anticipated case load. Our year 2005 problem looms darkly and needs
   a meaningful response by the Congress and the President. There's
   another factor that now make significant contributions to the Court's
   workload. It's a subject that's dear to the hearts of many of you here.
   I'm talking about attorneys fees. Litigation over attorneys fees under
   contingency contracts and under the Equal Access to Justice Act raises
   issues that can be highly complex. The litigation expends much of our
   judicial resources that could otherwise be directed to the merits of
   claims. Attorneys do provide valuable assistance to benefits claimants,
   and I might add, to the Court, and 8 SIXTH JUDICIAL CONFERENCE must --
   they must be fairly and timely compensated. Congress has determined
   that fees, which for a long time, were five and then ten dollars,
   should be available at a "reasonable level," and that the involvement
   of attorneys in benefits litigation was beneficial to the claimants.
   That, I suggest, is evidenced by the statutes that were passed
   respecting fees for lawyers. While it is for the political branches to
   balance the policy interests as to whether to have attorney involvement
   in earlier stages of benefits litigation, such as the regional office
   and initial proceedings before the Board, I respectfully submit there
   should be legislation that would permit attorneys' fees for work at
   those levels as well. Such legislation would do much to avoid errors
   and speed the adjudication process, which today is tragically slow and
   fraught with avoidable error. Six years ago, I stood before this
   conference to suggest that a restructuring of the benefits
   administration for the Department of Veterans Affairs was in order.
   This suggestion was met with some hostility from within VA, those were
   favoring the status quo. Since then, studies by numerous blue ribbon
   panels have suggested the same need. At this point and speaking
   anecdotally from the records on appeal that are filed with the Court,
   it does not appear that much has been done. I understand that the
   department is in the process of restructuring the VBA. Like you, I look
   forward to hearing our lunchtime plenary speaker, Under secretary Joe
   Thompson, and what he will tell us. It is a formidable task to bring
   about this restructuring, especially within a department that is in a
   constant state of transition. I recognize that fact. We at the Court
   are still seeing far too many cases where there have been delays
   lasting for years, resulting from misguided responses to orders of the
   Board or the Court for medical examinations or opinions. This
   emphasizes the need for close coordination between the health
   professionals and the VA adjudicators, with a workable chain of
   command. Four years ago, the then-General Counsel of VA spoke at this
   conference of an ambitious undertaking to rewrite the vast body of
   benefits regulations. Again, I speak as an outsider as concerns VA's
   internal workings, but to the world at large, it appears that that
   comprehensive undertaking unfortunately died with a weak whimper. For
   my final point, I saved the most important. It is what I mentioned when
   I began this address: The very reason why the Court exists and why
   we're here today. From its creation, the Court was charged with one
   duty: To see that the rule of law governed the veterans benefits
   process. The Court, unlike VA, must be neutral in deciding disputes
   between applicants and the Secretary. We must apply the law as written.
   I like to think we have. Also, even though the Court process is
   adversarial, it is our task to insure that under the rule of law, the
   non-adversarial process at VA has been maintained. This duty of
   neutrality seemed strange and somewhat out of place to some used to the
   pro-claimant VA process. But nonetheless, it was a process that was
   commanded by the enactment of the VJRA. 9 SIXTH JUDICIAL CONFERENCE
   Prior to the creation of the Court, those dealing with VA benefits
   systems have dealt with the two political branches of government.
   Commentators on our constitutional system have noted that these two
   political branches have potent powers and that the judicial branch
   lacks such power. Alexander Hamilton in Federalist Paper 78 sought to
   convince his countrymen that they had nothing to fear from what he
   called the least dangerous branch. He wrote the following: "The
   judiciary, from the nature of its function, will always be the least
   dangerous to the political rights of the Constitution because it will
   be least in a capacity to annoy or injure them. The executive not only
   dispenses the honors, but holds the sword of the community. The
   legislature not only commands the purse, but prescribes the rules by
   which the duties and rights of every citizen are to be regulated." As
   Hamilton commented, and others have since observed, judges lacked the
   power of the purse and the power to enforce, yet they serve in a branch
   of the government that the United States Constitution established to
   provide the checks and balances essential to our government system.
   Federal courts are empowered to tell Congress that legislation is
   unconstitutional and department secretaries that their acts exceed
   their authority. Nevertheless, the balance among the branches may
   appear unequal because the only power base into which the third branch
   can tap is our citizens and their respect for the rule of law. In every
   lawsuit, including those before our Court, one party wins and one party
   loses. In an article entitled, "Doing the Right Thing and Giving Public
   Satisfaction," in the fall issue of the Court Review -- that's a
   journal of the American Judges Association -- our Chief Justice
   commented on this matter. He said, "Many of the losers will
   understandably be disappointed and some may feel that they got a raw
   deal from the Court. But there will always be criticism of particular
   decisions of courts not only by losing litigants, but by lawyers,
   laymen, educational commentators, and legal journals which disagree
   with the doctrine which underlies the particular decision." He went on
   to say that this is the price to be paid for an independent judiciary.
   He said, "Whatever may be the merits or demerits of a public
   poll-driven executive or a poll-driven legislature, the specter of a
   poll-driven judiciary is not an appealing one." This Court was created
   12 years ago under Article 1 of the Constitution and it is beyond
   dispute that Congress intended the Court to function as an independent
   judicial entity. I close with a suggestion and a reminder: Every so
   often, I implore you, read all of the Declaration of Independence, not
   just the preamble, which you probably memorized when you were in
   school. That Declaration tells you the type of government and court we
   do not and cannot want. Note the two counts against King George III,
   respecting the judiciary. "He has obstructed the administration of
   justice by refusing his assent to laws establishing judicial powers. He
   has made judges dependent on his will alone for the tenure of their
   office and the amount and payment of their salaries. Those were the two
   counts in the indictment brought against Great Britain that dealt with
   the judicial function of government which the colonists had been
   deprived of by the Crown. 10 SIXTH JUDICIAL CONFERENCE Well, we are
   living in an era when independence of our courts, both state and
   federal, is being challenged almost daily. These attacks do not just
   emanate from individuals. The other branches of government sometimes
   lead in these coercive attacks, all the way from impeachment, or the
   like, recall petitions, and so forth, to underfunding. I'm proud to say
   that for the 11-plus years of its existence, this Court, through its
   judges, has with appropriate and unhindered exercise of independence,
   brought the administration of veterans benefits under the rule of law.
   I leave the Court next month with respect for and thanks to my
   colleagues, judicial and non-judicial, and with confidence that they
   will carry on in the finest tradition of the judiciary. Thank you.
   (Applause.) JUDGE GREENE: If you get a chance to shake hands with the
   Chief today, I think you will get a clue as to what he is planning to
   do when he retires, if you just look at his tie. Our next speaker is no
   stranger to any of you. He is the person that runs the everyday
   operation of the Court, and so much so that when he says, "Give the
   person another kick, he took that literally." So he's on crutches
   today. I'd like at this time to present to you our Clerk of Court, Bob
   Comeau. (Applause.) MR. COMEAU: Thank you, Judge. Let the record
   reflect that this is not a service-connected injury, unless 30 years in
   combat boots gives you bunions, and I did not get run over by a truck.
   In fact, I volunteered for this process. There have been a few rules
   changes since we last met two years ago. First, let me remind you that
   the current paper version of the Rules, that have changed many times
   over the years, has a dark green cover. And the current version is also
   on our website, the address of which is on this little calendar before
   you. There is also a copy of the current Rules at Tab 4H of your
   conference materials. In May, 1999, Rules 3 and 46 were changed. First,
   a limited appearance is now available only to a practitioner who is
   filing a notice of appeal only to prevent the running of the Statute of
   Limitations. A miscellaneous order also allows the Pro Bono Program,
   and only the Pro Bono Program, to enter a limited appearance for the
   purpose of screening a case. Otherwise, all practitioners must file a
   notice of appearance in the detail provided in the new Form 3, which is
   at the back of the Rules. That form requires you to specify your bar
   status before the 11 SIXTH JUDICIAL CONFERENCE Court, your
   representational status, because we only contact and require the
   Secretary to serve the representative of record, and third, the terms
   of your representation. If you're representing the client for a fee, it
   requires a copy of your fee agreement up front. The conditions of
   withdrawal have been imposed by the Court for some time, and they are
   now moved into Rule 46 itself. So that should eliminate some of the
   delay in withdrawing from a case because you know precisely what you
   have to give us when you do withdraw. In June of this year, the
   longstanding prohibition against citing non-precedential materials as
   precedential, which has been buried -- in an obscure location in Rule
   28(i), has been rearranged for clarity and given more prominence in the
   previously unused Rule 30. Our Rules Advisory Committee is now
   reviewing the most recent changes in the Federal Rules of Appellate
   Procedure to see if any of them should be part of our rules. As you
   know, our enabling legislation doesn't require us to follow the Federal
   Rules of Appellate Procedure, and many of those rules are indeed
   inapplicable to our process. In addition, the Committee has some other
   issues under consideration and always welcomes suggestions from the
   bar. You may send those suggestions to me, and I'll promptly refer them
   to the Committee. Now, as has been my custom at these conferences, I
   would like to give you a statistical picture of the Court's operation
   this year. Like other Federal courts, we report by fiscal year, and my
   projections are based on numbers that I have through the end of July.
   Annual reports for fiscal years 1995 through '99 are on our website,
   and the current year's report probably will be posted about mid-
   November. That's when our numbers stabilize at the end of the year. I
   expect that our intake this fiscal year will be about 2460 cases, the
   highest to date, and an increase of about two and a half percent over
   last year, when we experienced only a slight increase over the year
   before. I expect that we'll terminate 2195 cases, only 77 percent of
   last year's figure, and as a result, our backlog will increase by 11
   percent to about 2240 cases. Moreover, that backlog probably will
   continue to grow between the Chief Judge's departure and the
   appointment of a new judge. The average processing time from case
   opening to decision has increased from one year, about a year ago, to
   about 14 months for cases decided in June. That figure also will remain
   high for the same reason. Now, as to the manner of termination, I'm
   pleased to note that last year, the latest for which I have complete
   figures, only 21 percent of our cases were terminated on procedural
   grounds, that is predominantly for lack of jurisdiction or default --
   failure to follow the rules -- and in some cases, voluntary withdrawal.
   That's a substantial drop from previous years, and is a credit to those
   of you who are screening cases early. It's obvious that these cases are
   being vetted early on. Ones that lack 12 SIXTH JUDICIAL CONFERENCE
   jurisdiction are not being brought forward, and people are in better
   hands in terms of following the rules. Of those cases that went to a
   decision on the merits, about 61 percent were remanded, in whole or
   part, a rate that, unfortunately, has remained relatively constant over
   the years. The pro se rate for new cases is about 69 percent, only a
   slight increase from last year. However, the efforts of the private
   bar, veterans' organizations, and the Pro Bono Program have reduced
   that rate to 37 percent by the time cases were decided, down
   substantially from last year, and the lowest rate in the Court's
   history. Again, congratulations to you all. Of course, the numbers
   don't tell the whole story. For the past ten years, I've kept in my
   office a framed quotation by General Omar Bradley, post-World War II
   Administrator of Veterans Affairs, and, incidentally, the grandfather
   of my predecessor, the first Clerk of this Court. That quote serves as
   my constant reminder that we're dealing with veterans, not numbers, and
   that their problems are ours. Now, that doesn't mean that we on the
   Court staff should tip the scales out of balance, but we should make
   extra efforts to insure that veterans have meaningful access to
   justice. For me, that has meant helping them navigate through an often
   confusing appellate process by making it more understandable through
   simplified rules, orders, and notices, and through clear and helpful
   explanations over the phone, and occasionally, in person. And I'm proud
   that this vision is shared by the Court's public office staff and
   central legal staff, so I'm comfortable in leaving this task in their
   hands when I retire at the end of October after 40 years of Federal
   service, and reclaim my primary title as "veteran." I've enjoyed these
   last ten years. You've made it . . . interesting. (Laughter.) MR.
   COMEAU: Good luck in your work in the challenging world of judicial
   review. Thanks. (Applause.) JUDGE GREENE: Thank you, Bob. Forty years
   is quite a long time, and we're honored to have had your presence on
   the Court for ten of those 40 years. Let's give him another round of
   applause. (Applause.) JUDGE GREENE: Of course, I've had the pleasure of
   being your colleague in the JAG Corps. Well, we're going along great on
   time. No one is here from the Federal Circuit. I think that maybe I had
   two or three people from their Central Legal Staff. Unfortunately, none
   of the judges could 13 SIXTH JUDICIAL CONFERENCE attend. However, their
   impact on our case law is quite evident over the past years, so I'm
   sure you know they're quite present, and we will have a chance to
   discuss that this afternoon. We have breakout sessions this morning and
   this afternoon, and with that, I've got some administrative
   announcements that I'll have my clerk, Jamie Mueller, who's also
   coordinator for the conference, present those at this time. MS.
   MUELLER: Good morning. No conference would be complete without some
   administrative announcements. Take a look at your binders. Inside the
   front cover are some items that you're going to need. For those of you
   that would like CLE credits, and who wouldn't, the forms are in those
   pockets. You should complete the form and put it in a box at the
   registration table at the end of the conference tomorrow before you
   depart. We'll send the forms to the State Bar. Just remember, anything
   sent to us after the conference is over, we cannot accept. If you have
   any questions or if your state has some unusual requirements -- I
   understand Texas, Florida, and Minnesota are such states -- please see
   Mr. John Nichols. He's our CLE Coordinator. John, could you stand up,
   please? He'll take care of you if you have any questions or problems
   concerning CLE's. If you want CLE credits in more than one state,
   you'll have to fill out a form for each state. And, as I said before,
   please submit them before you leave. As is becoming more common, there
   is no smoking allowed in the meeting rooms or in the ballroom. I
   understand the only place within the hotel that there is smoking is at
   the bar -- or you could go outside, of course. And I'd also like to
   mention that we really do want your feedback on the conference. Inside
   that front panel are also some evaluation forms that you can turn in.
   There's one for each day. If you need to be reached in emergency, the
   hotel number here is 703-769-3942. Let me give it again. 703-769-3942.
   The hotel staff will get to one of our staff members, and there's a
   bulletin board outside by the registration desk. If you have any calls
   of your own to make, there are some pay phones located at the end of
   the meeting rooms, and there are some downstairs near the lobby. I'd
   like to thank all those people who sent in questions for our session,
   Application and Enforcement of the Court's Procedural Rules. That will
   be one of our plenary sessions. But for those of you that were working
   overtime and sent some questions that had nothing to do with that, but
   had to do with other things, we forwarded those questions to the
   appropriate panel. If you don't happen to be in the panel where your
   question is addressed, I'd like to remind you that transcripts will be
   made and should be available in an upcoming Vet. App. Reporter. So you
   can consult that to see if your question was actually answered. The
   concurrent panels don't begin until 10:30, which means there's plenty
   of mingling time until then. But we'd like to start the lunch session
   precisely at noon, so please wander back in a little 14 SIXTH JUDICIAL
   CONFERENCE before noon and be seated so we could start on time. The
   meeting rooms for the conferences are found at Tab 1 in your binder,
   and they're at the end of the hall. When you walk out, you go to your
   left. And we'll be starting those at 10:30. Thank you. JUDGE GREENE:
   Now, as you see, you've got mingle time. Because of all the oral
   arguments we have, I'm sure you'll get a chance to talk to the judges
   and shake the judges' hands. That will give us the time to do that. It
   will also give us time to meet each other and discuss some issues
   before the seminars begin. So mingle. Be sure to be on time for the
   seminars, and we'll see you back here at lunchtime. Morning Breakout
   Sessions COMPENSATION & PENSION EXAMINATIONS: EXPERT TESTIMONY OR
   PHYSICAL ASSESSMENT? Hosted by Mr. Richard Bednar MR. BEDNAR: We're
   going to go ahead and begin a few minutes early, and you'll be out a
   few minutes early and ready for lunch. Welcome to the first breakout
   session on C&P Examinations, Expert Testimony or Physical Assessments.
   On behalf of the Court, we'd like to welcome you. My name is Richard
   Bednar. I'm a staff attorney with the Court's Central Legal Staff. Let
   me make one or two announcements before I introduce Dr. Coulson. At the
   end of his presentation, there will be a question and answer session.
   This session is being recorded and will be printed in the Court's
   Reporter. So when you ask a question, if you would please, introduce
   yourself, and if necessary, spell your last name so it's reported
   properly. Let me introduce Dr. Coulson. He's well qualified to speak to
   us today on the subject at hand. He has notably developed a teaching
   program to educate physicians in the proper administration of recording
   the C&P exams in order to improve the timeliness and sufficiency of
   exams. He graduated from the University of Illinois' College of
   Medicine in 1973. He has served both as the Assistant Chief of Medicine
   and the Associate Chief of Staff for Ambulatory Care at the University
   of Illinois and the West Side Veterans Hospital. He is himself a
   veteran. Would you please welcome Dr. Coulson. (Applause.) 15 SIXTH
   JUDICIAL CONFERENCE DR. COULSON: Good morning. Can you hear me without
   the microphone? I have a tendency to move around a little bit, and
   without a microphone, it will make it a little bit easier. Let's set
   the stage for what I would like to talk about today. There are two
   types of physicians that many of you know are involved in the veterans
   process. One is what I call the "veterans advocate physician," a
   typical doctor that takes care of the veteran. And that doctor does two
   things: One, examines his opinion. But, of course, because they
   represent the veteran, are often biased toward the veteran. And those
   are the ones that will help you get your claim well-grounded. Now, that
   could be a private doctor or a VA doctor. The second type of doctor
   we're going to talk about today, and that is the doctor that's
   designated to actually give an unbiased opinion about the information
   in the C file and examine the veteran, and may act as an expert witness
   in a court of law. And what we're going to talk about today is my
   program that I started in Chicago and the problems with it, and what
   we've done to change it around, which will give us some ground for
   discussion later. Up until about five years ago, compensation or
   pension physicians in Chicago were indeed examining veterans, answering
   questions. But then they were getting things back from the RO saying,
   "These cases are insufficient or inadequate for any purposes." And my
   doctors, of course, being doctors, said, "Well, what do you know about
   doctoring," right? "I'm the doctor. I write good opinions. I do good
   cases, and nobody challenges me in the arena of the university or a
   treatment, so why do you rating specialists keep saying some facts are
   insufficient?" And immediately looked at the problem. We made some
   changes, and now our cases seem to be more sufficient and more
   adequate, according to the RO's schedule and their opinions. So let me
   demonstrate a little bit about what we just talked about. Now, let's
   think of this as an exam, and the doctor is asked to read the C file,
   which by the way, sometimes takes 20 minutes, an hour, two or three
   hours, depending on the size and the number of volumes, to read what
   the RO has asked for, read what the BVA remand has asked for, perform a
   history and a physical and, of course, give an opinion. And in the past
   when this was sent to the RO, the RO would look at it and say, "What is
   this? You know, here is an opinion, but it doesn't go with the history.
   It doesn't go with the physical. It doesn't answer the questions that
   we asked." So they send it back saying, "insufficient." So we sat down
   and we did a training program, and we talked to the doctors about how
   doctors think versus how lawyers think. And in one setting, you 16
   SIXTH JUDICIAL CONFERENCE use legalese. In the other, you use
   medicalese, right? And we then took the doctors and we said, "Now,
   we're going to do the very same thing. We're going to put you back into
   those cases again and see what happens." And our brain specialist, they
   worked with us. They looked. They did whatever they usually do, and
   said, "Whoa. Now, you're coming up with different types of cases. These
   are" -- (Laughter.) DR. COULSON: "These are understandable" --
   (Laughter.) DR. COULSON: -- "and we like them." (Applause.) DR.
   COULSON: I got some for you who didn't get one. So let's talk a little
   bit about what it is that we did. Could someone turn off that one light
   right on the wall there that turns off most of the lights. I'm going to
   show you a little training program that we give to our physicians. The
   first thing we did was say, "Doctors, let's sit down and let's decide
   how a doctor thinks." And when we figure that out, next we'll figure
   out how the RO thinks. We doctors all go through medical school. Four
   years in medical school, a year of internship, three years of
   residency, four years of fellowship, and even four years of advanced
   fellowship. So we're all pretty old by the time we get out and start
   actually taking care of patients. The most important thing that we
   learn in medicine is to develop a physician-patient relationship. Now,
   this is the typical physician-patient relationship in which we act as
   the advocate for the patient, very much like a private lawyer would act
   as an advocate for their client. We look at things objectively, but
   we're always biased toward our client because that's who's paying our
   bill. The second is that we are trained to use the scientific
   principle, and we'll go through that for those of you who don't know
   the scientific principle. The first thing that any scientist does is
   have a hypothesis. "What could possibly be the problem?" Second, you go
   out to gather data to find out if that really is, indeed, the problem
   or it is not the problem. You then discuss all the data that has come
   in. You develop a plan, and you finally make a 17 SIXTH JUDICIAL
   CONFERENCE conclusion. This is exactly what any scientist, whether
   they're a astronomer, a chemist, an engineer or a physician, does in a
   scientific principle. Now, if we apply that to medicine, a hypothesis
   we call a differential diagnosis. What are the possibilities? Mr. Jones
   comes to me this morning, and Mr. Jones says, "Doc, I just developed
   this terrible chest pain about two hours ago," and I know that Mr.
   Jones is 65 years old and he had a heart attack three years ago. What
   are the possibilities? Well, he could have had another heart attack. He
   could have strained himself. He could have been shot in the chest and
   be bleeding to death. He could have a tumor. He could have a pneumonia.
   I'm going to have to ask some more questions to gather some data to
   decide which of these things it is. If we move this a little bit, maybe
   we'll do some things on the screen to help. I guess we can. All right.
   The history of the physical is what doctors do to gather data. A
   history is asking the patient questions. Now, a history I can take in
   the room with a patient. I can take a history over the telephone, over
   the Internet, via letter, because a history is the patient's
   interpretation of what's going on. The patient says, "I have pain in my
   chest." "I fell down." "I had a heart attack before." These are things
   that the patient tells me so I do not have to be in the room for that,
   and the things that the patient tells me are called "symptoms." The
   other part is a physical examination, which I do. A physical is things
   that the doctor observes. You can't do a physical over the phone,
   through the Internet, through letters. You have to actually be in the
   room because it's looking, it's feeling, it's seeing reactions. And the
   things that I find in the physical are called "signs." Now, some things
   could be symptoms and signs, but some things are one or the other. If
   the patient says, "Doc, I have pain in my chest," that's a symptom. I
   can't say, "Oh, no, you don't have pain in your chest." I don't have a
   pain meter. I can't read the patient's mind. So pain is something that
   is only a symptom. Now, the patient could also say, "I had my left leg
   amputated below the knee in the War," and I can look and see, yes, the
   knee is amputated. So that could be both a symptom and a sign. He says,
   "I have an amputation," and a sign, I see an amputation. After getting
   all this from the patient we just talked about with the chest pain, I
   say to the patient, "Now, what happened two hours ago when you say this
   pain started?" And he says, "I was lifting a heavy box of books in my
   basement, and I was carrying them up the 18 SIXTH JUDICIAL CONFERENCE
   basement steps. And about four steps up, I stumbled. I fell and the
   books came tumbling down on me." That little bit of information is
   changing right now my differential diagnosis. Initially, I had heart
   attack as the number one possibility. Now, I may push up muscle strain
   or injury as a higher possibility, okay? I'm going to update my
   differential diagnosis now based on what I found, and I found the
   patient also has tenderness in the chest, okay. And I might say I think
   the number one differential diagnosis now is acute pain due to injury
   from falling and having books fall on him. Number two, it could still
   be a heart attack because there is a history of heart attack in the
   past. I don't see any evidence of gunshot wound, so I'm going to put
   that way, way, way down at the bottom. Tumor is always possible, and my
   plan is to do things to help me to decide is it more likely than not to
   be a heart attack or deep muscle injury. So my plan would be to do some
   lab tests, maybe a chest x-ray. Maybe electrocardiogram. I might even
   want to get a consult to have him see one of our cardiology
   specialists. And what I find is that on the chest x-ray, I see two ribs
   broken. The electrocardiogram is perfectly normal, okay. Now, my
   conclusion is to do a diagnosis, which is to update my differential
   diagnosis. Now, number one is chest pain due to trauma, due to
   fractured ribs. So it's actually fractured ribs, okay? So this is the
   way doctors think. In the past, doctors have written cases like this
   for the regional office and they've come back. They've come back
   because the doctor has thought like a doctor and not like an expert
   witness in a court of law. So now let's look at what it is that the
   regional office wants from us doctors. So for compensation and pension,
   I tell my doctors, "Think of yourself not as a typical treating doctor
   today. Think of yourself as an expert witness, sitting in a court of
   law, answering specific questions asked by a lawyer. "You may not
   understand the question completely. You can always ask more
   information. You may not like the question. You may not have phrased
   the question that way, but you're supposed to answer the question the
   way it's posed, not change the question around to meet your own needs."
   Actually, our doctors, when they got a question from the regional
   office in the past, would say to themselves, "This isn't a medical
   question." They actually would rephrase it in medical terms, answer
   that newly phrased question, which, of course, was answering the wrong
   question, so the answer was wrong. So now we teach our doctors the
   definitions: Compensation. It's really our benefits given to 19 SIXTH
   JUDICIAL CONFERENCE veterans who have an injury or an illness the VA
   recognizes as being related to their medical military service. Doctors
   have to know what it is that we're talking about. A pension is benefits
   given to veterans who are disabled and unemployable due to conditions
   that may not be related to their medical military service. What's a
   compensation and pension examination? It is an examination ordered by
   the regional office to determine the existence or status of a medical
   condition or conditions for rating purposes. And I have to tell my
   doctors this is for rating purposes. This examination is not for
   treating purposes because we would write two different types of exams.
   If we're talking about this chest pain and the question was, "Is the
   veteran's chest pain today due to a Jeep injury he had in 1943 in World
   War II," the opinion would have to be it is not, at least as likely as
   not, because he didn't have it yesterday. He's had it following a fall
   down the stairs today. But that doesn't change the diagnosis, which is
   still fractured ribs. So in the old days, my doctors would give a
   diagnosis of fractured ribs, and that wouldn't be sufficient. But now,
   it's fractured ribs, is it or is it not? At least as likely it's not
   that it's related to a specific incidence. Now, the request form, the
   2507, is the request form that the RO sends to us, asking for a
   specific exam. And it contains the demographics, who the patient is,
   telephone number, address, how to get hold of them. The priority of the
   exam, whether or not it's an original, an increase, a review, pension,
   or being a remand, the selected exams, the type of exams requested, a
   joint exam, a mental exam, a PTSD exam. The current rate of
   disabilities, and finally, the general remarks, which is probably the
   most important part of the entire request. It gives the doctors
   specific information about what the rating specialists need to rate
   this case. And if this is a BVA remand, generally we put down very
   specific things that are needed. "An opinion, doctor, on the
   following:" The claims folder, large, cumbersome to a doctor, sometimes
   measured in inches or feet. We tell the doctors, "The claims folder is
   made up of three sections, but it's the center section that you're
   interested in." It contains the service medical records, and usually in
   a manila envelope. The previous C&P examinations that the patient has
   had in the past, any private physician reports, or even physician
   statements. And, finally, if it's a BVA remand, the actual remand
   itself is in there. We have exam worksheets. Each type of examination
   has a specific worksheet which explains how to perform that examination
   and what tests to order. Actually, in order to write these worksheets,
   we have written these worksheets over a period of 20 SIXTH JUDICIAL
   CONFERENCE years by looking at the rating book and trying to interpret
   the rating book into medical terms that the doctor will understand.
   "Please do this. Please answer these questions because these are
   specific questions in the rating book that will determine whether or
   not the patient gets a 10 percent or 20 percent or 30 percent." If the
   examiner, for some reason, believes that a test or procedure is
   medically contraindicated, even though it's on the worksheet or it's in
   the 2507 request, the examiner must document a rationale in the report
   for why they did not order it. A good example would be a chest x-ray on
   a female who's pregnant at the moment. We certainly would not get a
   chest x-ray on someone who's pregnant, but we would want to state at
   the bottom, "We did not order a chest x-ray because the veteran is
   pregnant at the present time." So we don't just not order it. We don't
   order and we give a rationale for why that is. Types of examinations.
   Again, these are not types of examinations that we learned in medical
   school. These are exams that are very specific to the claims process.
   An original claim, the background. The veteran is claiming a condition
   that he or she believes are related to the military service. This is
   the first time the veteran has applied for these conditions, and,
   "Doctor, what we want you to do is take a detailed history of the
   claimed condition or conditions from its origin until today." Now, the
   origin could be in the military service. In 1943, the patient was in a
   Jeep accident. Was thrown out. Had a crush injury of his left shoulder.
   It was dislocated. He was seen, and so on. Or it could say the veteran
   had a dislocated shoulder prior to military service, and the Jeep
   injury worsened it because, at that time, it was redislocated. So we go
   back to whenever this disease first started and give the chronology
   right up to the present. An increase claim is actually the veteran is
   already receiving a rating for the condition, and in this instance, the
   veteran believes the condition or conditions have increased in
   severity. The veteran is asking for a review because the veteran thinks
   things have gotten worse and the veteran actually is wanting more
   compensation. In this case, we tell doctors to take a detailed history
   of the claim condition from the date of the last C&P exam until today.
   Now, remember, in the original, we had the documentation from the onset
   of the injury, up until that exam. Now, this is from that exam up until
   now. What has happened? Is it getting worse? What can you do? What
   can't he do? What can't she do? And, also, include whether veteran goes
   for care because the RO should know private doctors are 21 SIXTH
   JUDICIAL CONFERENCE treating the veteran so they can go and get
   information from that source. Now, a review claim, we tell our doctors,
   again, the veteran has received a rating for the condition, but in this
   instance, it's not the veteran asking for a new exam; it's the VA is
   requesting an evaluation to see if the condition has changed. Really,
   what they want to know is, has it gotten better, right, so they can
   decrease the percentage, but, of course, it could have gotten worse.
   But, again, this is the VA asking for something. The other is the
   veteran asking for something. But we treat it the same way. We still
   take a detailed history of the claim condition from the date of the
   last C&P exam until today. What has happened? Have things gotten
   better, stayed the same, gotten worse? Any complications? And, again,
   we should say where the veteran goes for other care. A
   non-service-connected pension. In this case, the veteran is claiming he
   or she can no longer work due to injuries and/or condition or
   conditions, which would mean not related to the military service. And
   in this case, we take a detailed history of all the claimed conditions.
   Finally, the Board of Veterans' Appeals, the BVA remand, which is
   probably the thing that bothers my doctors most because they already
   know that this veteran has appealed the case and it's in the legal
   process. This veteran has appealed the ruling made by the regional
   office. The Board of Veterans' Appeals in Washington has sent or
   remanded -- I just didn't know what the word, "remand" meant --
   remanded back to obtain very specific information. For the most part, a
   BVA remand is asking for one or two or three specific things that my
   doctors need to answer. They're not asking for a global group of
   things. What is it specifically? And, usually -- I don't know who's
   here from BVA. I think BVA remands are written very clearly for doctors
   to understand. It's right there. It says exactly -- and I usually even
   quote what the law says -- and it specifically -- what the doctors
   should say, and they generally even give them choices of phrases to
   use, all right? Now, my doctors in the past didn't like the choices of
   phrases, so they made it their own. They don't do that anymore. Review
   the claims folder and the remand instructions before seeing the
   veteran. Very important for two reasons: One, for legal documentation.
   But, number two, it's so nice when the veteran comes in for you to have
   that great big C file sitting on the desk and say, "Good morning, Mr.
   Jones. I'm Dr. Coulson. I've reviewed your military records here. I've
   reviewed your old C&P exams. I have reviewed the ratings that you got
   from the RO, and I've reviewed the BVA remand," so they think that
   you're not starting this examination cold and you have some facts. And
   all of the facts that are in their record now make them feel that they
   are really important to them. 22 SIXTH JUDICIAL CONFERENCE Restate in
   the dictation, "I have reviewed the claims folder and BVA remand
   instructions for this veteran," so it's very clear that the doctor has
   seen it. We also tell the doctors, "Answer only the questions asked."
   At this time now, this is going to a court. Now, the court is coming
   back and asking us very specific questions. These aren't generic
   questions. "So if there's three questions there, answer the three
   questions, Doctor. Don't make up a fourth question, a fifth question, a
   sixth question, because sometimes that just opens up a Pandora's box
   and brings it right back." Now, the Court says, "Now, there is a new
   problem. You haven't answered that one," and it goes through the
   litigation again. Opinion terminology. I tell my doctors, "More likely
   than not, the probability is greater than 50 percent. At least as
   likely as not is 50 percent or greater, and not at least as likely as
   not is less than 50 percent." So, doctors, we're not asking you to say,
   "Is it 97 percent or 98.5 percent or 77 percent." We're saying, "Is it
   50-50 greater chance than that, or is it 50-50 or greater, or is it
   less than 50- 50?" Actually, it's easier for us than it used to be
   because the Board used to ask us for specific percentages, which a
   doctor just can't give. So this, I think, gives doctors much more
   leeway, and we should expect that they can do this. Now, once in a
   while, the doctor can't make this decision at all, and if they can't,
   then I want a rationale from them as to why you can't even decide
   whether it's as likely as not or not. And I will tell you, we don't get
   very many of those back. It's very, very unusual. One of my doctors the
   other day said, "Well, this is like asking me where I got my
   intelligence, what percentage came from my mother, what percentage came
   from my father. Is my father's intelligence at least as likely as not
   the contributing factor?" I guess something like that, I'd have to say,
   "I really can't tell you. You know, just no way." First of all, I'm
   going to displease either my mother or my father, no matter what I say,
   right? But we don't have very many of those questions. Now, how to
   conduct the examination, Doctor? And we make it very clear that this is
   different than a treatment examination. Review the claims folder first
   before you do anything else. And, by the way, our RO in Chicago sends
   us 99.9 percent of the C folders for R cases and that's because I used
   to get less than 30 percent of them. And I said, "It's not fair to the
   doctor or the veteran to have the patient seen and the doctor not have
   all the information. Now, I'll tell you the RO is very concerned that
   we might lose the records, that we might alter the records, that we
   might burn the records. I don't know. We'll eat them. I don't know what
   they 23 SIXTH JUDICIAL CONFERENCE thought we were going to do with
   them. But now they all come to me personally. I sign for them, and they
   go back. And I'm going to tell you that we have not misplaced a record
   in the last five years, so we're doing pretty well. First of all,
   Doctor, review the claims folder, the C file, before seeing the
   veteran. In the report, state whether or not the claims C file is
   available for review. State, "The C file is available and has been
   reviewed by the examiner," or, "The C file is not available to the
   examiner." And I will tell you, this last statement raises some
   eyebrows with some of my rating specialists. Some of them say, "Oh, I
   want you to say this and I don't want you to say this." And I said,
   "Well, if we're putting facts down, I have to have facts, especially if
   you come back to me two years from now and say, 'Dr. Coulson, I didn't
   like the opinion you gave,' I might look at my report and say, 'Well, I
   didn't have that C file, so there, I really didn't know some of the old
   information.'" And we doctors are taught, when we are writing up any
   kind of medical opinion for treatment purposes and the veteran comes to
   a clinic or the patient comes to a clinic and the medical record is not
   available, we always state, "The medical record is not available
   today." That connotes to future reviewers that I am basing my opinion
   today on what the veteran tells me and not what the old record states.
   So I think it's very important to do both of those things. I think
   writing this also helps me get all the C files to my RO because he
   didn't want to see that written in the reports, and so they start
   sending them to me. Follow the worksheets, Doctor. Follow all the
   worksheets instructions. Do not order diagnostic tests or additional
   examinations not required on the 2507, the worksheets of the BVA
   remand. The reason for this is my doctors quite often used to look at
   all the things they were asked and then say, "Well, maybe I'll just do
   a complete examination on the veteran, too," or the veteran says, "Oh,
   by the way, doc, while I'm here, I want you to look at this part of my
   body," and the doctors would do that. What it did is open up a
   Pandora's box. It almost looked as if the C&P doctor was certifying
   that, indeed, this new claim of the veteran which hadn't come through
   the RO now might be well grounded. So we have decided to stick with the
   specific requests. Now, we do have rating specialists at our hospital
   sitting right next door to my C&P doctors. So if a veteran comes in and
   says, "Doc, the 2507 says, left shoulder, but it wasn't my left
   shoulder. It's my left knee," that's bothering him. My doctor walks
   over to the rating specialist and says, "The veteran is claiming a knee
   instead of a shoulder. Is it okay if I do the knee exam?" 24 SIXTH
   JUDICIAL CONFERENCE And, generally right then, the rating specialist
   looks at the report, looks at the C file, and says, "Oh, yes. We made a
   mistake. It is the knee." Or sometimes he will say, "No. It is the
   shoulder that was injured in the military. Now,I will authorize a knee
   if the veteran is saying that, 'My knee is injured because of the
   shoulder.'" Or more commonly, "My knee is bad because of my hip,"
   things that go together. But we always get an okay from the rating
   specialist before we do that. Diagnoses. A definite diagnosis must be
   given. Now, I will tell you that doctors and lawyers think differently.
   Doctors think in possibilities. Lawyers think in probabilities. I would
   say, "It is possible that this man had a heart attack this morning," or
   "It is possible that the pain is due to the fractured ribs." A lawyer
   will say, "No. Tell me about the probability of it. What's the
   probability that the pain is due to the fractured ribs?" The following
   terms are not acceptable, doctors: "Rule out," "status post," "history
   of," "possible" -- all the things that the doctors are trained to write
   in medical school. You're trained to write this because "rule out" are
   all the things that I'm thinking of. This is my differential diagnosis
   we talked out. The rule out would be, in this person, fractured rib,
   heart attack, right? Status post. What is the status of this case?
   Well, a status, it used to happen. It's in the past. That's what the
   doctors are stating here. "History of" really means the patient tells
   me something that I haven't been able to verify. History of falling out
   of an airplane. Well, I didn't see it in the military records. That's
   what the patient says. Or possible. So we have gotten our doctors away
   from using these because these don't stand up in a court of law. Now,
   that's the course that we give to our doctors. I'm going to give you
   just a couple of minutes now, if you have questions about this, and
   then I'm going to show you something else. I'm going to show you a way
   that we have now of trying to standardize the writing of exams and
   having them typed in the computer, and I'm going to show you some
   computer programs that we use. I saw one hand here, and then I see a
   hand over here. MR. BOSLEY: Yes. What is the possibility of this sort
   of program getting to the RO's around the country and making sure that
   the doctors speak English? DR. COULSON: Oh, I'm sorry. We need your
   name. MR. BOSLEY: I'm sorry. 25 SIXTH JUDICIAL CONFERENCE DR. COULSON:
   Why don't you stand up. It's all being recorded. Say the name and spell
   it, if you need to. MR. BOSLEY: My name is Wade Bosley, B-O-S- L-E-Y.
   And my question is, what are the possibilities of a program like this
   getting to the doctors at the RO's around the country as being taught
   only in English? DR. COULSON: Okay. I think what we have to do -- we,
   meaning the VA -- we are one VA now, right? We're not a BVA and a VBA,
   right? One VA, and veterans want to see it that way, too. I think we
   should do exactly what you say. We should decide on a national training
   program and go around and foster this to each of the VISNs in the VHA.
   We have 22 VISNs. VISN is a network. In my VISN, we have three Chicago
   hospitals, Milwaukee, Madison, Wisconsin, Iron Mountain, and Michigan.
   I'm in charge of all of those. The second thing, and maybe even more
   important, is we need to convey the high priority of C&P exams to
   everybody. And I think BVA knows it because that's their livelihood. I
   think VBA knows it because that's their livelihood. I'm not so sure
   that VHA always knows it because that isn't what they see as their
   livelihood. But I think we need to do all of those things, and you need
   to help us push this nationwide. Yes, ma'am? MS. CHOU: Marian Chou,
   C-H-O-U, and my question specifically is quite often and lots of times,
   those doctors are not qualified as specialists. How can they render an
   opinion for which they ought to be qualified as experts? For example,
   just an MD is not necessarily able to render orthopedic opinion. DR.
   COULSON: Okay. What is the definition of a specialist? The VBA's
   definition of a specialist is someone who has knowledge about that part
   of the body. Now, that is different than a medical definition, which we
   have a medical certification. So board-certified specialist is
   different than a specialist, and those are the two things that we
   sometimes miss. A board-certified specialist is someone who has
   actually taken a Board in that specialty. A specialist is someone who
   is very knowledgeable about a subject, so we generally say to a doctor,
   "What do you feel comfortable with?" If a doctor doesn't feel
   comfortable with a type of exam or if it's a question that they can't
   answer, we do expect them to get a consultation from someone who does
   know. 26 SIXTH JUDICIAL CONFERENCE Joint exams are a very good example.
   If, indeed, a patient is here for a review of a knee and the question
   is, "Is it worse," and you know what the diagnosis is, arthritis of the
   knee. The veteran says it's worse, what you really need for a rating is
   range of motion and what limits the range of motion and where is it
   limited and what is it limited by. A, disability, weakness, right? And
   what happens during flare ups. That doesn't take a board certified
   orthopedic doctor to do that, okay, but somebody that knows all the
   things that we just talked about here. On the other hand, if it's a
   brand new original case, and this is a disease that I, as a doctor,
   don't know anything about, it's a bizarre case, of course, we need a
   board-certified specialist. So we interpret "specialist" as someone
   knowledgeable in the field, not necessarily board certified. Yes, sir?
   MR. SMITH: Yes. Austin Smith in reference to the Boards here in
   Washington. I have a question. Earlier, you threw out the statistics
   out of one of the hospitals in Chicago, 99 plus percent in terms of
   cases that were sent to the hospital for review prior to an
   examination. Now, is this nationwide now, or you're visiting it? And
   the reason I'm asking is, in years gone by, usually the regional office
   wouldn't send the folder over unless it's a psychiatric case or
   something, and those would, in all likelihood, would go. But in a lot
   of cases, I would find where the word opinions from medical doctors who
   treated the veteran for a long period of time, I would request that
   that folder be transferred over for a new private examination so the
   doctor could see those examinations. But that's what I'm wondering now.
   Nationwide, are they starting to send them over? DR. COULSON: I would
   tell you that everything I just talked about here is within my own
   VISN, because this has been our group that has done this. So what I'm
   saying here is not something that's done nationally, but I certainly
   think it would be very wise. But you have to understand why a doctor
   believes that having access to more information is more beneficial to
   them. I think it's more beneficial to the veteran, too, to have it
   stated that the doctor did, indeed, see and review all the information.
   Now, that doesn't mean that a doctor is going to look through
   absolutely every page in that C file. But we certainly go through and
   pick out the important things that are pertinent to that case. Yes,
   sir? MR. COHEN: Richard Cohen, private attorney from Fairmont, West
   Virginia. In the private area, when we get consultive exams, we always
   get the vitae or the credentials of the doctor who's performing the
   exams. 27 SIXTH JUDICIAL CONFERENCE Generally, almost uniformly in the
   VA exams, we have no idea of the vitae or the credentials. Do you have
   your doctors indicate what their credentials are in connection with the
   C&P exams they render? DR. COULSON: Well, what we do in Chicago is, I
   have a select group of doctors who do C&P exams. Those credentials are
   with the RO. So we don't put the credentials on each report, except
   that we do say joint specialist or heart specialist or whatever. The
   problem comes in many hospitals where they pick the doctor de jour, the
   doctor of the day, right, and I think that is part of the VHA's problem
   is that every doctor in a medical center cannot know all the things we
   just went over, and they're not all equally qualified to do it because
   they haven't got the training. You might get a doctor that you've never
   heard of before and don't know who they are. So, again, what I'm
   talking about here is what we do in the Chicago area. Yes. Oh, my
   goodness. Keep going. MR. DOUGHERTY: My name is Ian Dougherty. I'm a
   private practitioner in Phoenix, Arizona. You opened your discussion
   with the note that what you seek to do is find out what the VARO wants.
   You also talked in terms of being an expert witness. Both of those
   statements indicate more of an advocacy role than a pure evaluative
   role to me. And if you want to know what the VA wants, as opposed to
   what the veteran wants, you are assuming an advocacy role, and you've
   become an expert witness for the VA, you are assuming an advocacy role.
   This causes a problem with me, and I was wondering whether you instruct
   your evaluating physicians on another portion of the VA law which says
   the veteran is entitled to the benefit of the doubt when the doctor is
   in doubt. DR. COULSON: I think that's very good. Number one, you never
   allow a doctor to do a C&P exam if they know the veteran or are
   treating the veteran because there's certainly a conflict of interest
   there. No question about it. Number two, when I say we do what the
   regional office needs for rating purposes, I mean we follow whatever
   the request is. Whatever it is in the exam worksheet that says that
   needs to be done, that's what we do. If there's an opinion asked, tell
   me whether it is at least as likely as not or not at least as likely as
   not. Then my doctors do that. We don't look at it as a way of giving
   the veteran money or saving the government money. I mean that's what we
   don't want to do. 28 SIXTH JUDICIAL CONFERENCE But I do agree with you
   that our job is to be unbiased and to look at the facts, nothing but
   the facts and render an opinion, and we try our best to do that. Yes,
   ma'am. Yes? MS. KORITTA: My name is Pat Koritta, K-O-R-I-T-T-A,
   National Veterans Legal Services Program. One of the common complaints
   that you hear from veterans is, "Well, the doctor only saw me for 10
   minutes or 15 minutes," or, "He really didn't even touch my knee." How
   do you address that with your doctors in terms of time limits? I know a
   lot of them are maybe overbooked with patients. Are they told, you
   know, a time limit that they have to spend or -- DR. COULSON: You're
   very good. That goes right to my next little topic. Keep that question
   and we'll do it at the end, okay? I have a little computer program that
   I wrote for my new doctors because even though they sit in a course
   like this, they go home at night and they forget what it was that I
   said, okay? So if there's a little computer program that they can take
   home with them and answer some of those questions. I'll just show you
   what I give each of them to take home. What this does, this allows the
   doctors to have a tutorial. We have an introduction, definitions, type
   of exams requested, what to do before the exam, how to perform the
   exam, how to write the report and sample exams, and they can learn a
   lot of these things. This is all the things that we were just talking
   about here. Definitions. Again, some of the things we just learned
   here, compensation, what pension is, what a C&P exam is, what a request
   form is, what a claims folder is, what the exam worksheets are all
   about. The types of exams, again, service connected, increase, review,
   pension, and BVA remand so they can go back and they can do this on
   their own. Now, before the examination, we say allow approximately 15
   to 30 minutes for review of the C file, including the service records,
   reviewing previous C&P exams, review 2507 request, including remarks.
   If a BVA remand is present, review that, and follow all the
   instructions on the worksheet. Now, I will tell you that not all
   doctors have the same amount of time. You add up the time we're going
   to talk about and you're going to see how long it takes to do a good
   C&P exam. Now, if you have the patient scheduled into a clinic with
   everybody who has high blood pressure and diabetes and strokes, how
   long does the average doctor spend with a patient in this country? Do
   29 SIXTH JUDICIAL CONFERENCE you have any idea? Most appointments are
   20 minutes, 30 minutes maximum. You couldn't even finish reading the C
   file in 20 minutes. So if you give it to a doctor who is doing all
   kinds of other things, what are they going to do? They're either going
   to shortchange reading the C file, or they're going to shortchange
   seeing the veteran. Now, if you have to review the C file, see the
   veteran, and write an opinion in 20 minutes, there is not much time
   left to see the veteran. So I suggest that 15 to 30 minutes as a
   minimum to review the file. And I will tell you, for those of you who
   view C files, doing a good C file review in 30 minutes is not very easy
   to do, right? Next, performing the exam. And I say allow 45 minutes for
   actually doing the exam. Number one, you have to explain the exam
   process to the veteran. Now, some of our veterans know the exam process
   better than we do because they've been through this quite a few times,
   but the originals have. So I always tell my doctors, "Introduce
   yourself. Say to the veteran, 'Nice to see you.' Show that the C file
   is on your desk and that you reviewed it, and explain the process that
   you are here today to do an examination based on the individual claim
   or claims only." We're not here to do a complete examination or to
   treat the veteran. If they have a problem that day and they're sick, we
   would be very happy to take them down the hall to the treating doctor
   as soon as we're finished. But we don't want to mix the unbiased
   opinion that we're supposed to be giving as an expert witness with
   treating the patient, as an advocate. Tell the veteran you reviewed his
   or her records. Be compassionate and listen. Listening is the most
   important thing, by the way, that doctors do. We should do mostly
   listening and little talking, but that doesn't always happen. Follow
   instructions on the request and the worksheet. And, finally, at the
   very end, ask the veteran if they have any questions. We do that with
   patients, too. If at the very end, you say, "Do you have any
   questions," the veteran may not have any, but they kind of feel that
   somebody's asked. It's a way of finishing off the exam process. If they
   do have questions that I can't answer, I have a rating specialist two
   doors away. And I'll say, "Well, come right over here, and you can talk
   to our rating specialist," especially if they have a new claim they
   would like to put one in. Writing the report. Now, a report, you don't
   just rattle off in two minutes, either. It takes between five and ten
   minutes. And I tell my doctors, "When you are writing the report, do
   the following: 30 SIXTH JUDICIAL CONFERENCE Include the veteran's name
   and Social Security number. Include all the information that's on the
   2507 request, what type of request it is, whether or not the increase,
   if it's an original." Indicate the C file BVA remand were reviewed.
   History and physical findings that were asked on the worksheet. Include
   any questions or requests from the BVA remand and answer those very
   specifically, and answer all opinions using the wording in the remand.
   Don't make up new wording because this has been sent back to you
   specifically to get clarification on a specific topic and specific
   wording, and usually, the wording comes right out of the law. So,
   again, to make it better for the veteran and easier for all of you who
   are their advocates, we want to answer the Court's question correctly
   the first time and not have it come back again because of miswording.
   And I find that many of the BVA remands that come back is because
   somebody just didn't answer the specific question that was asked. It
   has nothing to do with whether the veteran is entitled or not. It's
   that wording that needs to be there. What I tell you, my doctors all
   have an hour and a half for every case, except for a PTSD, which we
   allow two hours. Now, if you do PTSDs all day long, you can only see
   four in the morning and four in the afternoon, maximum, right? Not very
   productive from a doctor point of view when the director looks to see
   what we're doing. They see that the doctor who sees high blood
   pressure, sees 35 cases a day. So they'll come down and say to my
   doctors, "Why do you only see six or eight cases a day, and the other
   doctors can see 35?" And I have to explain to them that a C&P exam is
   much, much different. Now, at the very end here is a little sample exam
   that the doctors can do to actually practice, and this is actually a
   text generator that allows the doctors to start writing. Many doctors
   can't type real well into the computer and we are asked to have our
   exams typed. There are several ways a doctor can get a typed exam into
   AMY, into our computer system. One is to type it him or herself. Number
   two is to dictate into a dictating machine and have a transcriber
   transcribe it. The doctor will then go back and review it, edit it, and
   sign it. Number three, they can use a program like this that actually
   is a text generator. Number four, they can use voice. Number five, they
   can do something other than that if it gets the exam in. So let's just
   start this one and I'll show you how this works. So this is Mr. Gordon
   Smith. Okay. Date of birth. Okay. Generates the age already for us.
   Okay. Now, it starts to write the exam for us. Puts the patient's name
   down, Social Security number, date of birth, age, sex, race, telephone
   number. Now, we can go and we can look at the RO request. Chicago
   regional office is where I work, but 31 SIXTH JUDICIAL CONFERENCE I
   also work out of Indianapolis and Minneapolis. Type of request. This
   will be an original SC, and a selected exam will be a general medical.
   Current rating. We get 10 percent for cardiology. The date in the
   military, 1943, at the age of -- where was he? Don't give me these
   dates now. Germany. He was in the Army, and this all happened during
   basic training. This is the date of the examination, but I can change
   it. Place of the examination. Information obtained from the patient, or
   sometimes, it's not the patient. If the patient is unable to talk, it
   may be a wife, husband, someone else who works with us. Was the C file
   available and reviewed. Okay. Again, all of this now is placed onto our
   report. History of the complaint. We'll say the patient -- this whole
   problem with his shoulder began two years ago. What was he doing at
   onset? We'll say he was climbing stairs. Gradual onset, and you can see
   what you're doing is you're actually generating words and text.
   Location, on the left side of the body on the upper chest. Radiates to
   the lower back. Precipitated by climbing stairs. Aggravated by
   debriding and running, okay. It's alleviated by leaning forward, and
   the medicines are nitroglycerin. Okay. Here we go. It began two years
   ago with the gradual onset. It occurred daily. It occurred during
   climbing stairs and was aggravated by belching. You kind of get the
   idea. And then if they're going to do a joint exam -- by the way, past
   history, we could do this with the past military history, what
   happened. And let's just do a joint exam because joint exams are one of
   the things my doctors have the most difficulty with. So if it's range
   of motion that we're doing on the right side of the body and it's a
   shoulder, the first thing they get on the screen is what are the normal
   movements of a shoulder. There are six normal movements. These are the
   normal maximum ranges. So if flexion on this patient is actually 175
   degrees, limited by pain at 170, extension is 85, limited by
   fatiguability. And we'll say this one isn't limited at all, and
   abduction is, we'll say, 170, limited by weakness at 100 -- you can
   kind of get the idea. So the doctors all use the same terminology, and
   it makes it easier for them, and also, they have the things here that
   they're supposed to choose so they're not making up other types of
   things. 32 SIXTH JUDICIAL CONFERENCE And here we have it. The range of
   motion on the right -- for the shoulder on the right side, flexion
   extension, what the normal range is, what their range was, limited by
   pain, okay? For a mental examination, we can do the same thing, and I
   have a lot of trouble with PTSD. So here is a PTSD exam. You have to
   follow all of the rules of the DSM-4 or you won't be able to make a
   diagnosis of PTSD. Everything that's grayed out is not applicable at
   the moment because the first thing you have to say is, "Was the person
   exposed to a traumatic event?" Both things have to happen according to
   DSM-4. The person experienced, witnessed, or was confronted with an
   event or events that involved actual or threatened death and serious
   injury, or a threat to the physical integrity of self or others. So
   we'll say, "yes." That was certainly true. They were in Vietnam and
   they were being bombarded and shot at, okay, and maybe they saw the
   death of their best buddy. And the person's response involved intense
   fear, helplessness and horror. If both of those things happened, the
   next box lights up, so we can proceed. If one of those two things is
   not true, that's the end of PTSD. The next one is, "What was the
   event?" Enemy fire on self or sight of dead and injured people. "Where
   was this?" This was in the military. By the way, all PTSD doesn't
   happen in the military, right? You could have had an automobile
   accident two years ago in which your wife and your two children died,
   and it would be PTSD, but it would not be related to the military,
   right? Okay. "When did this happen?" We'll say the summer of 19 -- use
   any year that you want. Take this one, an older one. Well, let's give
   him 40 -- let's see, 60. Make it Vietnam. "Did symptoms begin within
   six months?" It has to be within six months for a DSM-4, okay? The
   answer is, "yes." "Did the symptoms last greater than eight months?"
   Okay. It has to. Now, the next -- you see what we're doing? We're
   keeping doctors all doing the same thing and knowing what all the rules
   and regulations are. If a DSM-4 ever changes, we can change the program
   so it keeps up with DSM-4. And we'll just keep doing this. You have to
   have three of these things, okay? We have to have one of these things
   and we have to have two of these, and suddenly, look. Criteria for PTSD
   is fulfilled. We click on that, and here, we have the PTSD criteria was
   met, and here's all the information about it. So this gives you a
   pretty good indication of what you can do. Now, for those of you who
   say, "I still can't even type" -- this was one-finger typing that I was
   33 SIXTH JUDICIAL CONFERENCE doing, correct? My doctor should be able
   to do one-finger typing, although I hear someone say, "I don't have any
   fingers, you know." So we have something else, too. We have voice. How
   many use voice in here? Good, good, good, good. It's great for lawyers,
   for opinions. "This is the first hospitalization for this 46-year-old
   black male, comma, with a history of congestive heart failure and
   diabetes." (Laughter.) DR. COULSON: "Period. The diabetes began in
   1948, and he has been treated with insulin ever since, period. Stop
   dictation." Now, what you have to do is you have to check to see what
   words were not right, as you're doing. And I put some words in here so
   you can see how we do the correction because what we're going to do is
   we're going to teach the program next time not to make those same
   mistakes. "This is the first hospitalization for this 46-year-old black
   male," okay? That's what I thought it said. Now, maybe I said
   "blackmail," okay? I'm going to go back and hear what it was I said.
   "With a history of congestive heart failure and diabetes. The diabetes
   began in 1948, and he has been treated with insulin ever since." So out
   of those two sentences, one word is incorrect. Now, let's go back to
   the word, "black male," and listen to what it was that it heard me say.
   "Black male." Okay. Now -- so you can hear whether or not you think you
   said "black male." Do I want it to -- next time it hears me say exactly
   that, type "blackmail," or do I want it to type "black male." I think I
   said it pretty well. So what I'm going to do here is just make the
   change, okay. Say, "Okay," and then for this one, which is the male,
   "black male," let's just do it. Okay. So now, the next time it hears
   that, it will know what it was I said. The computer is much better than
   doctors or our kids. You tell it something once, and it always does it.
   So the other thing that you can do for something like this is if you
   have canned paragraphs -- lawyers are good at that. Got their little
   paragraph A, plus something, D, okay. You can even say to the computer,
   "paragraph 1, 2," and it will type whatever it is that you say is
   "paragraph 1, 2," or remand. It will type whatever it is that you have.
   We call those "macros," okay. This is very good for people who write
   the same type of things over and over and over again. An example in
   medicine would be a radiologist who says, "normal chest x-ray." And
   normal chest x-ray says, "The heart was normal size. The lungs were
   normal. The diaphragms were fine. We had no problems with the lung
   fields. Conclusion, normal exam." 34 SIXTH JUDICIAL CONFERENCE Now, why
   should a radiologist have to type that each time they have a normal
   x-ray, but you can have it say, when you say, "normal chest," it just
   rattles everything off. So these are all different ways that we have of
   trying to get doctors to comply, number one, with typing, and number
   two, standardize what it is that we're all saying. Okay. Now, let's go
   back to some of the questions because that was in response to the one
   question that you had. Yes? MR. COHEN: My name is Richard Cohen. When
   the schedule of ratings is amended, how are you informed of that so
   that your exam will change so you can coordinate it to the criteria
   that are being discussed, and when they are amended, how long does it
   take you to update the exam worksheets? DR. COULSON: The exam
   worksheets are in the computer system nationally right now. So when
   they are changed in Washington, they automatically are changed every
   place across the country. That's one of the things that are completely
   standardized. So whenever we make a change in the worksheet, if I print
   off the worksheet tomorrow, the new worksheet prints off. So that's how
   I can tell you is one of the things that is completely standardized. I
   wish everything were that easy to standardize. MR. POTTER: Yes, sir.
   I'm Marshall Potter, private practitioner. In attempting to develop a
   case or a review by the VA, I often attempt to contact the VA doctor
   who is the treating physician. Invariably, I am stonewalled and get no
   answer, or my client will tell me that the doctor, who has told him
   something, tells them that the VA prohibits him from giving any opinion
   or anything else. In my opinion, this creates an adverse effect on his
   ability to present this claim, and in some ways, vitiates your
   examination because your doctor is not advised of the opinion of the
   treating physician and goes, as you say, based on the RO's questions,
   which they are saying are directly in contrast with the, in some cases,
   the VA stated policy of a non-adversarial position. Can you explain why
   the treating VA physicians are either prevented from or refuse to grant
   these, especially since the VA requests all this from us? DR. COULSON:
   Do you want to turn the lights on back there? We'll turn the lights on.
   I think I heard two questions. One is if the VA physician is actually
   acting as the treating physician, why can't you get information from
   them. MR. POTTER: Correct. 35 SIXTH JUDICIAL CONFERENCE DR. COULSON:
   Okay. And the answer is, you should be able to, but not over the phone.
   MR. POTTER: That has been my point. I have written letters and they
   have never been answered. As a matter of fact, I have gotten
   correspondence from VA Medical Directors at the hospitals that it is
   against their policy to do so. DR. COULSON: What we -- our policy is
   that if a veteran -- usually it's the veteran that brings in the
   request from the lawyer, you know, saying, "I need to have this
   information." Then generally, what I ask my doctors to do is to put
   that information, to the best of their knowledge, into the medical
   record, and suggest the patient request a copy to release some
   information. We cannot answer your questions over the phone because of
   privacy. So it would have to be through a letter, through the veteran
   bringing a letter in to the release of information section. So that
   should work pretty well. Now, if it doesn't work, there could be a
   problem in the individual hospital that you're talking about. MR.
   POTTER: Well, as I say, it's never called, and my letter is specific
   questions, and they're always by letter, and they're either not
   answered or -- they're not answered, period. DR. COULSON: Okay. Well, I
   think that needs to be taken up with the Director. But I think if there
   are written requests brought in by the veteran, it's the veteran
   requesting copies of his records. Now, I can't always give the opinion
   that the veteran wants. Now, you have to understand that. The veteran
   comes in to the doctor and says, "I want you to say that this was due
   to a bomb." The doctor may not be able to do that, but they can give an
   opinion. MR. POTTER: Well -- DR. COULSON: They should give an opinion.
   It may not always be the opinion that you and the veteran want. MR.
   POTTER: I'm not questioning that. I'm just asking for the opinion, not
   anything else. DR. COULSON: You should be able to get that, yes. MR.
   POTTER: Well, I never get it. DR. COULSON: Okay. Then I would talk to
   the chief of staff of whatever hospital that is and see. MR. POTTER:
   That's an exercise in futility, frankly. 36 SIXTH JUDICIAL CONFERENCE
   DR. COULSON: If it's from Chicago, you send it to me. How about that?
   MR. POTTER: Okay. DR. COULSON: Okay. Yes, sir? MR. RUSSO: I'm Paul
   Russo. I'm from Park. Mr. Cohen's question about documents, I do
   training from Park, and (Inaudible). What we're doing is we always hire
   Board Certified doctors as being doctors on (Inaudible). Always board
   certified (Inaudible). What we do with VA documents is we go on the
   Internet, find out, first of all, what the doctor likes (Inaudible). We
   also find out (Inaudible), and we have (Inaudible). DR. COULSON: Yes,
   ma'am. MS. CARL: Brenda Carl. I wonder if it would be possible, Doctor,
   to get a copy of that information (Inaudible)? DR. COULSON: You want
   the slide show, you mean? Well, I'll tell you what. If you send me your
   name, I'll be very happy -- MS. CARL: And the tutorial and -- DR.
   COULSON: The tutorial, too? MALE VOICE: She wants (Inaudible). DR.
   COULSON: Oh, you want -- you mean this computer program? MS. CARL: Yes.
   DR. COULSON: Oh, I'll be very happy to make that -- sure. What do you
   do? MS. CARL: I work at a law firm in Topeka, Kansas (Inaudible). DR.
   COULSON: Oh, okay. Just send me -- you're on Outlook? MS. CARL: No. DR.
   COULSON: Microsoft Outlook? What kind of e-mail do you have? MS. CARL:
   You mean the browser? 37 SIXTH JUDICIAL CONFERENCE DR. COULSON: Uh-huh.
   MS. CARL: We have Netscape. DR. COULSON: Okay. Why don't you send it to
   me, if you want to write down my e-mail address. It's Lewis, my first
   name, dot Coulson@Med, M-E-D, dot VA, dot Gov. MALE VOICE: G-O-V? DR.
   COULSON: G-O-V, uh-huh. MALE VOICE: I'll just have Carl DeGrassi go by
   your office to get us some -- DR. COULSON: Carl DeGrassi is in my
   office often. MALE VOICE: That's what I figured. DR. COULSON: Oh, you
   figured that? MALE VOICE: I'll get him while he's up there. DR.
   COULSON: Okay. MS. CARL: Could you repeat that one more time? DR.
   COULSON: Oh, Lewis, L-E-W-I-S, dot Coulson, C-O-U-L-S-O-N, at Med,
   M-E-D, dot VA, dot Gov. MALE VOICE: How do you type that? DR. COULSON:
   Oh, just tell me where you were and you were here, and I'll send you a
   copy of it. MALE VOICE: Yeah. DR. COULSON: Okay. Oh, what do you want
   to call it? Why don't you call it C&P tutorial. That's fine. MALE
   VOICE: C&P tutorial. DR. COULSON: Now, what you're talking about is
   this little computer program that I just did at the end? Yeah. I mean I
   think most of the things on the slides, you know. Those are the things
   that I teach my doctors, but it's the tutorial that you want. Yes. 38
   SIXTH JUDICIAL CONFERENCE MR. BOSLEY: I have a question on your PTSD
   exam. DR. COULSON: Uh-huh. MR. BOSLEY: This is Wade Bosley again,
   private attorney from Indiana. You had three buttons, the symptoms less
   than one month, one to three months, within six months. And then the
   next box lit up. You also have one for PTSD, comma, delayed onset,
   where the symptoms come out after six months to have the other boxes
   light up? DR. COULSON: Well, those will be exceptions to the rule, and
   the doctors could always type any of that in. We have the things that
   are the standard, right? I mean doctors can do anything they want to.
   And in -- by the way, at the very end here, doctors can type anything
   they want to here. This is a regular word processor, so they can just
   type to their heart's content, if they want to do that. MALE VOICE:
   They're going to put buttons (Inaudible). DR. COULSON: Well, the
   buttons are the standard things, yes, and it's very hard to have
   buttons for every exception in the rule in the world. Yes? Somebody
   else had another question. Yes, sir? MR. JARVI: Ted Jarvi again. One of
   the -- two of the problems that I've encountered in doing VA exams is
   that the remark, "C file present," or "C file available," rarely gives
   any kind of an idea about where the doctor got his background or
   history information. Frequently, the doctor is getting his information
   strictly from the vet and not from the C file. Sometimes it's from the
   C file and not from the vet. It would be very helpful if there was more
   of a remark than just, "C file present," when relating the history that
   the doctor is depending upon to arrive at a diagnosis. DR. COULSON: But
   if a doctor says that, "I reviewed the C file and talked to the
   veteran," you'd want to know specifically every time he says something,
   is he referring to the C file or is he referring to the veteran? MR.
   JARVI: I want to know if he's getting his background history because --
   DR. COULSON: Well -- MR. JARVI: -- sometimes it's (Inaudible) and
   that's important. 39 SIXTH JUDICIAL CONFERENCE The second question I
   have is many of my clients tend to be inarticulate, and in preparation
   for going through a VA, I tell them it would be a good idea to write
   out a list of the symptoms that you're experiencing because they get
   panicked or upset and they don't remember to tell the doctor
   everything. Almost invariably, those are rejected by the doctor. The
   doctor says, "If you want to file anything, file it with the regional
   office," and it doesn't get in the file. Only one or two times have I
   had a VA doctor accept such a document and actually deal with it in the
   examination. DR. COULSON: The first question, if a doctor heard
   something from a veteran that wasn't substantiated, we usually say, "by
   history." So that's usually a clue that something the veteran has told
   us that we can't substantiate. As far as anything the veteran brings
   in, whenever a veteran brings anything in, their own statements,
   statement from a buddy, a list of things, I always say to them, "Would
   you like to have this included in your C file," and we can do that. I
   simply put it inside the C file when it goes back and my rating
   specialist then decides whether or not it's appropriate. But almost all
   the time, it's appropriate to do that. The other, though, is very
   important. Even if you're a patient, make a list of the thi
