http://www.nipc.gov/publications/nipcpub/cyberprotests1101.pdf

   Cyber Protests Related to the War on Terrorism: The Current Threat
   November 2001 This paper is an up-to-date companion to the information
   on cyber protests and hacktivism presented in the paper "Cyber
   Protests: The Threat to the U.S. Information Infrastructure" located at
   www.nipc.gov. This paper focuses on the events that occurred since the
   September 11 terrorist attacks and the resulting rise in threats to the
   U.S. information infrastructure, to include the potential for
   distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks. Since the terrorist
   attacks on September 11, 2001 the speculation of the potential for
   cyber attacks has varied, from low-level nuisances to an all out "cyber
   war." What has been seen thus far is on the low side of the threat
   spectrum. Both pro-U.S. protesters and anti-U.S. protesters have been
   active. However, the effects of their actions have not been
   particularly damaging. In reviewing these events, trend analysis
   indicates the continuing remote cyber threat to U.S. networks and web
   sites remains low. However, the threat is higher than before September
   11. PRO-U.S. HACKERS Beginning on September 11, patriot hackers and
   hacking groups on Internet Relay Chat (IRC) and newsgroups called for
   attacks on Pakistani and Afghani web sites. They promoted active
   retaliation for the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and
   Pentagon. A web site dealing with Afghan dogs was reportedly the first
   victim of pro-U.S. cyber protesters. On September 12, the official web
   site of the Government of Pakistan was defaced. Other web sites defaced
   were those belonging to the Afghan News Network, Afghan Politics,
   Taleban.com, and Talibanonline.com. Spam (unwanted mass e-mails) was
   also used to encourage hackers to join together in attacking web sites
   of Islamic fundamentalism and those supporting terrorism. Recipients
   were encouraged to further disseminate the message to persuade others
   to join the fight in any way they can, be it active hacking or in a
   support role such as information gathering. Denial-of- service (DoS)
   attacks were also used by hackers. E-mail bombing is a popular form of
   a DoS attack. Massive amounts of e-mail or web traffic are directed
   against a specific site, overloading it and causing it to crash. On
   September 12, the official web site of the Presidential Palace of
   Afghanistan was affected by a DoS attack that rendered it inaccessible.
   Usenet newsgroups dealing with Islam have also experienced DoS attacks.
   The newsgroup soc.religion.islam was e- mail bombed by hackers and
   subsequently crashed. The call to hackers to join forces has been
   successful. A group calling itself the Dispatchers has taken up the
   task of striking out against Palestinian and Afghani web sites. Lead by
   a hacker named The Rev, who has defaced several sites since February,
   the group vowed to target those responsible for the September 11
   terrorist attacks. Their first known defacement, committed on September
   16, was the Iranian Ministry of the Interior. They stated their
   intentions to continue defacing and crashing sites in retaliation of
   the terrorist attacks and they have successfully done so, although they
   have not been heard from since late September. A prominent pro-U.S.
   hacking group formed in late September. Founded by the wealthy, German
   hacker Kim Schmitz, Young Intelligent Hackers Against Terror (YIHAT)
   has as its goal to gather information on terrorists and give that
   information to the proper U.S. authorities. They claim to have hacked
   into a Sudanese bank and found records linking bank accounts to
   Al-Qaida and Osama bin Laden. They have also created a web site at
   www.kill.net for recruiting purposes which has suffered DoS attacks
   from opposing hackers and hacking groups supporting anti-U.S.
   sentiments, including Fluffi Bunni, a well-known hacker in the
   community. Subsequently, this has forced YIHAT to move its activities
   "underground" and operate covertly to protect their members. They have
   apparently discontinued use of the kill.net web site. Although YIHAT
   denounces web defacements there have been numerous defacements
   committed in its name. This appears to be a fringe element of the
   group, an outsider wishing to be accepted into the group, or someone
   wanting to discredit the organization. YIHAT also announced plans to
   seek state sponsorship from a nation that would legalize their hacking
   activities in their effort to fight terrorism. They also plan to open a
   hacking training center to better train their members. The group's
   expanding size has been listed at 800 registered members, although
   press accounts have placed the number at 25 to 35 active members.
   ANTI-U.S. HACKERS On September 14, Fluffi Bunni defaced web sites
   numbering in the thousands by compromising an ISP domain name server
   and redirecting those sites to a page created by himself. The message
   was "Fluffi Bunni Goes Jihad." This is believed to be the largest
   single defacement act regarding the terrorist protests. This event only
   lasted an hour but the number of sites affected was many. Also on
   September 14, the LifeStages computer virus was renamed to WTC.txt.vbs
   in order to infect computer users who were curious about the World
   Trade Center. The resulting effect on computer systems was minimal.
   September 15 saw the e-commerce web site belonging to First Responder
   Supplies hacked by a group claiming to be the Brazilian hacking group
   Illegal Crew. It is common for hacker groups not associated with a
   particular event or cause to take up arms in the cyber protests.
   Brazilian hackers have been involved in protests against the United
   States for a couple of years. The Pakistan Hackerz Club (PHC),
   including Doctor Nuker, and GForce Pakistan have also been active in
   hacking U.S. web sites. GForce Pakistan is a Pakistani hacker group,
   which formed in February 2000 and is primarily known for web page
   defacements of Israeli, Indian, and U.S. government web sites. The
   primary stated motive for their cyber activity to date is in protest of
   alleged violence and human rights violations against Muslims in Israel
   and Kashmir. On October 17 the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
   Administration's web server was hacked in the name of GForce Pakistan
   which threatened to attack other U.S. and British military web sites
   unless the demands posted on the defacement are met. Days later, on
   October 20, GForce allegedly defaced a U.S. Department of Defense (DoD)
   web site belonging to the Defense Test and Evaluation Processional
   Institute. This low-level web page defacement illustrates the ability
   of the hackers to compromise servers but it is unlikely any high- level
   DoD web servers will be successfully hacked. Other well known hackers
   have indicated they will join the attacks on U.S. web sites. Web
   servers and other computer systems in foreign nations are vulnerable as
   well as those in the United States. An incident occurred on October 1,
   in Hungary, when hackers compromised the Hungarian National Security
   Office's web site and defaced a page with anti- U.S. propaganda. This
   indicates the hackers' willingness to go after those nations not
   directly involved in the current war on terrorism. CALLS FOR AN END TO
   HACKING Not all hacker groups have been supportive in the efforts to
   attack the United States. On September 14, a group of German hackers,
   the Chaos Computer Club, called for an end to the protests and for all
   computer enthusiasts to stop vigilante actions. They called for global
   communication to resolve the conflict. Their peaceful efforts were
   publicized but largely unheeded by the hacker community as indicated by
   the continuing defacements on both sides of the issue. Cyber Angels, a
   well-known group of hackers promoting responsible behavior, have also
   spoken against the hacking conflict. They sponsored television ads
   urging hackers not to get caught up in the over zealous fervor, rather,
   urging these same hackers to help gather intelligence and information
   on the criminals who are participating in this hacktivism. CONCLUSION
   Groups of Pakistani hackers have declared cyber jihad on the United
   States and are calling on all hackers of Muslim faith to participate.
   GForce Pakistan has taken on a large role in building a coalition to
   fight the United States as military operations are taking place. Their
   main targets are U.S. sites but they are also attacking Indian sites
   and foreign sites supporting the United States. They have stated that
   they will continue to target military sites and web sites that support
   critical infrastructure. There has been a spillover effect of the
   protests. Several misdirected hacks have taken place including the
   defacements on September 16 of Aon Corporation, a Chicago-based
   insurance provider, because they have "terrorism" in the URLs. Aon lost
   approximately 200 employees in their World Trade Center office. A group
   calling itself "The Dispatchers" apologized for the mistake. Foreign
   nations are being affected as well. An Australian web site was
   compromised on September 27 by anti-U.S. hackers because it had
   "tradecenter" in its URL. This is a common occurrence in that hackers
   haphazardly target sites without investigating the company's
   background. Some sites are being attacked merely because their names
   sound vaguely Arabic. Pro-U.S. hackers will continue to respond to the
   conflict in cyberspace. There may be more misdirected action against
   U.S. web sites, those of U.S. allies, or those not involved in the
   military response to the terrorist attacks. In the week following the
   terrorist attacks, web page defacements were well publicized. However,
   the overall number and sophistication remained rather low. Many of the
   sites that were defaced by pro-U.S. protesters had pictures of Osama
   bin Laden inserted in various poses, some with him burning in flames or
   with a gun to his head. Many of the sites defaced by anti-U.S.
   protesters had pictures of dead or dying Arab children with statements
   alleging the hypocrisy of the actions of the United States. As many
   expert Information Technology security organizations have intoned since
   September 11, the potential for more serious cyber attacks does exist;
   however, they do not appear to be imminent. It is believed that the
   cyber protests, hacktivism, and on-line defacements will continue and
   may escalate as the United States continues military involvement. The
   potential for future DDoS attacks remains high. The protesters have
   indicated they are targeting web sites of DoD and organizations that
   support the critical infrastructure of the United States, but many
   businesses and other organizations-some completely unrelated to the
   events- have been victims. As such, infrastructure-related
   organizations should maintain a heightened defensive stance in regards
   to their web servers and networks connected to the Internet.
