http://www.treasurydirect.gov/sec/secgovpa.htm

   T-Bills, Notes, and Bonds Home Page

   Public Debt Home Page

   Print this page

   Navigational Tool
   Click for text links

         Virtual Lobby | Upcoming Auctions | Recent Auctions: Bills
      Recent Auctions: Notes & Bonds | Secondary Market Rates | E-mail
                                   Reports

                               How We Pay You

Direct Deposit ... Convenient and Safe

   Payments to most investors holding Treasury bills, notes, or bonds in
       TreasuryDirect are made by direct deposit. So, when you establish
       your TreasuryDirect account, you must designate a bank account to
       receive your payments. (For brevity's sake, we'll call it a "bank"
       account; actually, the account could be at a bank, credit union,
       savings and loan, or other financial institution.)
       Once you specify the bank account, the TreasuryDirect system will
       notify the bank that it will be receiving electronic payments into
       that account. Each time we make a TreasuryDirect payment to you,
       whether the payment is a refund, interest, or principal, it will be
       deposited directly into that account.
       Direct deposit is convenient and safe. You don't need to worry
       about lost or stolen checks, or standing in line at a bank to cash
       or deposit checks. Your designated financial institution will
       provide a periodic statement confirming all deposits.
       If we owe you money before we have confirmed your direct deposit
       arrangements, we will pay you by check.
       Changing Directions
       The payment instructions you give for your TreasuryDirect account
       will apply to any securities held in that account, until a
       TreasuryDirect office or the Bureau of the Public Debt receives one
       of the following:

    1. a Transaction Request (PD F 5178) on which you change the
       instructions, or
    2. a request from your bank to change the instructions (because of a
       merger, for instance), or
    3. a report from your bank saying your account at the bank has been
       closed, or
    4. notice of a change in your status (such as, a legal guardian has
       been appointed to handle your estate).

   Final Words

   Here are a couple more things you should know about designating an
   account at your financial institution:

     * If both the TreasuryDirect account and the receiving bank account
       are in the names of individuals, then at least one of the
       individuals named on the TreasuryDirect account must also be named
       on the deposit account at the receiving bank.
     * When you establish your TreasuryDirect account, you will be asked
       for your bank's routing number. You can ask the bank for this
       number or look it up yourself on the bottom line of a check; it's
       often in the lower left corner.

                            Updated June 4, 2001
