http://access.usgs.gov/disclaimer.html

   USGS
   Place-Based Program

   Chesapeake Bay
   Greater Yellowstone
   Mojave Desert
   Platte River
   Salton Sea
   San Francisco Bay
   South Florida

                       Website Disclaimer Information

   Information presented on this website is considered public information
   and may be distributed or copied. Use of appropriate byline/photo/image
   credit is requested. We strongly recommend that USGS data be acquired
   directly from a USGS server and not through other sources that may
   change the data in some way. While USGS makes every effort to provide
   accurate and complete information, various data such as names,
   telephone numbers, etc. may change prior to updating. USGS welcomes
   suggestions on how to improve our home page and correct errors. USGS
   provides no warranty, expressed or implied, as to the accuracy,
   reliability or completeness of furnished data.

   Some of the documents on this server may contain live references (or
   pointers) to information created and maintained by other organizations.
   Please note that USGS does not control and cannot guarantee the
   relevance, timeliness, or accuracy of these outside materials.

   For site security purposes and to ensure that this service remains
   available to all users, this government computer system employs
   software programs to monitor network traffic to identify unauthorized
   attempts to upload or change information, or otherwise cause damage.
   Unauthorized attempts to upload information or change information on
   this website are strictly prohibited and may be punishable under the
   Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986 and the National Information
   Infrastructure Protection Act. Information may also be used for
   authorized law enforcement investigations.
     U.S. Department of the Interior, U.S. Geological Survey, Center for
   Coastal Geology
   This page is: http://access.usgs.gov/disclaimer.html
   Comments and suggestions? Contact: Heather Henkel - Webmaster
   Last updated: 27 December, 2001 @ 09:26 AM (KP)
