http://baucus.senate.gov/academies.html


   [BaucusHeader-a3.jpg]



   HOME
   BIOGRAPHY
   CONTACT INFO
   FLAGS
   ISSUES
   MONTANA
   PRESS
   VISITING DC
   MaxStatements
   Message to Montana
   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]

                                 Max Baucus
                            United States Senate
                              511 Hart Building
                           Washington, D.C. 20510

                               (202) 224-2651
                             (800) 332-6106 (MT)
                             202-224-1998 (TDDY)

                                   E-Mail

   PRIVACY POLICY

     This page best viewed at 600 x 800 pixels using Microsoft Internet
           Explorer 4 or higher or Netscape Navigator 4 or higher.

                             MILITARY ACADEMIES

                   UNITED STATES SERVICE ACADEMY NOMINATION
                             SENATOR MAX BAUCUS

   U.S. SERVICE ACADEMY NOMINEE APPLICATION FORM

   U.S. SERVICE ACADEMIES GUIDANCE COUNSELOR FORM

   LEGAL REQUIREMENTS FOR NOMINEES

   I.  GENERAL INFORMATION

   Due to the extremely keen competition for nominations, you are urged to
   apply to every nominating authority which your eligibility allows,
   (i.e., Senator Conrad Burns, Representative Dennis Rehberg, President
   George W. Bush, Vice President Dick Cheney, Children of Deceased or
   Disabled Veterans, etc.).  However, if you received a nomination from
   another source, in most cases, I will not duplicate that nomination.
   Since the academies are able to award more appointments than are
   provided by Congressional vacancies and other categories, no candidate
   who is highly qualified needs more than one nomination whether
   Principal, Alternate or Competitive to obtain an appointment.  By the
   same token, no candidate who fails to meet academy standards will be
   benefitted by having multiple nominations.  In order that more
   applicants will have an opportunity to be reviewed by the academies,
   please let me know immediately if you are nominated by another
   authority.

   Each Congressional Office uses a selection process which is designed to
   meet its own  needs and standards.  The different procedures are often
   confusing to applicants who apply to more than one office.  Last minute
   misunderstandings can be avoided by carefully studying and following
   the instructions of each office.

   Certain information is required as outlined below in order for you to
   be considered as an applicant.  It is your responsibility to submit
   this information and to keep it updated.  The deadline for receipt of
   information is December 1st prior to the year of entry because there
   must be adequate time to assess each candidate's qualifications.
   However, information received after the deadline is acceptable until
   the selection of nominees is complete.  Candidates whose files are
   incomplete when the nominations are made cannot be given
   consideration.  If you will have a problem meeting the deadline with
   scores, or other pertinent material, please call my Butte Office and
   make arrangements!  The telephone number is 406-782-8700.

   Careful thought should be given to your first choice of an academy.
   Second choices can be considered only in the event that there are not a
   sufficient number of qualified candidates in an academy category to
   fill a slate of nominees, which rarely happens.  (First choice
   designations may be changed at any time before nominations are made.)

   II.  Requirements

   A.  Residency.  Applicants must be residents of Montana.

   B.  Application Form.  The enclosed application must be completed and
   returned promptly.  Formal candidacy is established in this office upon
   receipt of the application.  It is not necessary for you to send all
   required information at once, and you should not  wait to fill out the
   application.  If transcripts or test scores are not received within a
   reasonable time after your initial inquiry, it will be presumed that
   you are no longer interested in pursuing a nomination.  It is your
   responsibility to complete your file!

   You will not be contacted to check on progress.

   C.  Recommendation Form.  The enclosed Recommendation Form must be
   completed by your school Guidance Counselor or Principal and returned
   to my office.

   D.  Transcript.  An official transcript of your high school record and
   class record must be submitted.  This transcript must show your current
   junior grades and numerical class rank (percentile ranks are not
   acceptable).  If you apply before this information is available, it is
   your responsibility to request your guidance counselor to send an
   up-to-date transcript and to keep your records current.

   E.  College Boards.  The SAT or ACT tests are required entrance
   examinations by the Service Academies.  Applicants are responsible for
   registration for tests and for requesting results be sent to the
   academies and my office.  You must be tested before December 15 for
   purposes of my office.  Therefore, the SAT and ACT tests administered
   in November would be the last test which you may take if the results
   are to be received in my office before that deadline.  Direct these
   scores to my office in your original choices for test reports, send me
   a copy of the report you receive.  If you submit more than one set of
   scores, the higher scores will be counted.

   F.  Qualifying Medical Examination.   The individual academies will
   recommend the scheduling of medical examinations to the Department of
   Defense Medical Examination and Review Board after receipt of the
   pre-candidate questionnaire card which is used to open a pre-admission
   file at the academy.  There is no cost to the candidate for this
   examination.  Be sure to mail the appropriate cards as soon as possible
   to the appropriate academies.

   G.  Leadership.  Leadership potential and physical fitness are judged
   from the information provided on your Application Form.  This
   information should be kept up to date.  Unlike civilian colleges, the
   Service Academies place strong emphasis on physical training.  In
   addition, the academies, like civilian colleges and universities, place
   a high premium on leadership and extra-curricular  activities.
   Therefore, consideration must be given to each candidate's proven
   ability in these areas.

   III.  TYPE OF NOMINATION--COMPETITIVE

   For each vacancy at the United States Air Force, Military, and Naval
   Academies, ten (10) candidates will be selected for nomination to
   compete for appointment.  At the Merchant Marine Academy, ten (10)
   candidates will be selected for nomination to compete for the state
   quota of ten (10).  Under the COMPETITIVE method, which I use, the
   candidates selected for nomination will be evaluated by the respective
   academies which will make the final appointment.  NOTE: There are no
   congressional nominations to the U.S. Coast Guard Academy.

   IV.  BASIS FOR SELECTION

   Selections are made competitively on the basis of a composite of
   academic factors (60%) and leadership potential, extra-curricular
   activities, physical fitness, and recommendations (40%).  The following
   are included:

   a.  School records, class rank, and grade point average.

   b.  Extra-curricular activities.

   c.  College Board Scores.  Normally, a competitive candidate will have
   SAT scores above 580 on verbal and 560 on math, or ACT scores above 24
   on English and 25 on math and will stand in the upper fifth of their
   class.  The higher your scores and class standing, the greater will be
   your chances for a nomination, assuming qualification in the remaining
   areas of consideration.

   d.  Motivation.  One of the most important considerations in the
   selection of nominees is motivation the candidate's desire to attend an
   academy.  It is also most difficult to measure.  To an extent,
   motivation can be judged by a candidate's diligence in completing his
   or her file, which is one reason those incomplete files are not
   considered for nominations.  In addition, candidates are invited to
   write an essay on their reasons for wanting to attend an academy.  This
   may be done on the reverse side of the Application Form.  The essay is
   optional, but it could be most helpful to your candidacy if you make it
   to the "finals" in other categories.

                                Good Luck !!

   ALL THE CORRESPONDENCE REGARDING THE APPLICATION PROCESS FOR A
   NOMINATION SHOULD BE SENT TO THE FOLLOWING ADDRESS:

   Senator Max Baucus
   125 West Granite Street
   Suite 100
   Butte, Montana   59701

   ATTN: Kim Krueger

   The telephone number is (406)782-8700, or call 1-800-332-6106 and ask
   to be connected to the Butte office to speak with Kim.  She will be
   happy to assist you in any way possible.
   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]
   [blue-line.gif]
   [whatsright.jpg]
   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]

                                BREAKING NEWS

   BAUCUS ANNOUNCES $3.4 M GRANT FOR MONTANA COLLEGES 05/14/01

   BAUCUS, GRASSLEY RELEASE FINAL BIPARTISAN TAX PACKAGE - 05/11/01

   BUDGET RESOLUTION PASSES SENATE - 05/10/01

   BAUCUS CHIDES CORPS FOR NOT REQUESTING FORT PECK FISH HATCHERY FUNDING
   - 05/09/01

   AS RANKING MEMBER ON FINANCE, BAUCUS NEARS BIPARTISAN DEAL WITH FINANCE
   CHAIR ON LARGE TAX CUT- - 05/09/01

   BAUCUS WORKS FOR FAIR RELIEF TO MONTANANS AS HE HELPS CRAFT BIPARTISAN
   TAX CUT BILL - 05/08/01

                             MORE BREAKING NEWS
