http://www.stlucieco.gov/port/index.htm

                               [main_logo.gif]


   [blue_left.gif] Home    Visitor information    Search    Weather
   News [blue_right.gif]

          [blue_left.gif]

                                                        Quick Links

   Annual Report [cookbook56x80.jpg] Recipe book offer!
   Click book for details.
   Bid Solicitations
   Employment Opportunities
   Flash Introduction Movie Flash Introduction  Movie


   [green_white_left.gif]

                             Port of Fort Pierce
   [green_white_right.gif]


                             Foreign Trade Zone

                        Port of Ft Pierce Master Plan

                                Local Weather

   Click map for larger image
   Florida's choice location to export citrus is in the heart of the
   Treasure Coast, one of the fastest growing regions in Florida. Served
   directly by the Florida East Coast Railway, U.S. 1, Highway I-95 and
   the Florida Turnpike, the port offers an excellent opportunity for
   importers and exporters to the Caribbean, South America, Europe and the
   Pacific Rim.

   Centrally located, the port is 225 miles south of Jacksonville, 150
   miles north of Miami, and 100 miles southeast of Orlando, Florida. This
   location, with the airport and an excellent network of highways and
   rail service, permits economic and timely access to markets for both
   import and export, particularly perishable products.

   Historically, the port of Fort Pierce has specialized in handling
   perishable products such as fruit and vegetables. Roll on, roll off
   (ro-ro) cargo, heavy lift, and containerized cargo have all been
   handled at the port. The port has also attracted and efficiently
   serviced off-shore day cruises for large passenger and luxury
   intracoastal waterway vessels.

   Local labor is industrious and highly skilled. They have set standards
   of excellence in cargo handling.

   Click here for larger image
   Facilities: Existing port facilities include the Indian River Terminal
   with berths of 454', 330' and 150' for vessels to 28' draft, and the
   municipal pier with marginal wharfs of 330' and 195' for vessels up to
   20' in draft on the seaward end. The municipal pier, primarily suitable
   for small cargo vessels servicing the island trades, also has a ro-ro
   ramp which is presently used by a firm transporting fresh produce from
   the Bahamas. The Indian River Terminal with a pierside refrigerated
   terminal, can also accommodate landing ships and ro-ro vessels equipped
   with bow or stern ramps.

   Marcona Ocean Industries operates a terminal for bulk discharge and
   distribution. This terminal has a three dolphin mooring system which
   can moor vessels to 28' in draft. On occasion, barges and other ocean
   going craft have used the aragonite terminal to load equipment and
   heavy machinery.

   Click here for larger image
   Fort Pierce Inlet: Separated by 900', two 1,200' natural stone jetties
   protect a 300' wide entrance channel which narrows to 200' on reaching
   the Indian River. Water depth in the entrance channel is 31' below mean
   low water from the ocean to a point about 1,500' west of the inshore
   end of the inlet. From that point the depth of the channel and turning
   basin is 28' below mean low water. The turning basin is up to 900' wide
   and allows large vessels maneuvering room for docking and undocking at
   the Indian River Terminal.

   The channel and turning basin are intersected by the Intracoastal
   Waterway which allows coastwise barge traffic direct access to the
   port. Entrance to the St. Lucie, Okeechobee and Caloosahatchee
   cross-state waterway system is just 19 miles south. Tidal surge in the
   harbor averages 2.5' with 3' occurring during spring tides.

   The distance from the outer seabuoy to the Indian River Terminal is 3.0
   miles. Two tugs, 1200 hp and 500 hp, provide around-the-clock service.
   Additional assistance can also be provided by the Harbor Master pilot
   boat which has a capacity of 400 hp.

   The Fort Pierce Harbor Master, the U.S. Coast Guard and Indian River
   Terminal all maintain VHF channels for ship to shore communications.
