http://safecities.gov/results.cfm?ID=17

   REFRESH(200 sec): file://localhost/


   Meet the
   SafeCities Network

   Find Your State

   Home
   SafeCities Logo

Measuring Results

   Measure Results


   MAPPING RESULTS

   About Mapping Results: Communities are finding that geographic
   information systems are powerful management and communications tools;
   SafeCities partners are putting them to work to get better results for
   youth. Key examples and resources follow.


   American FactFinder

   American FactFinder provides users with the capability to browse,
   search, and map data from many Census Bureau sources. You can use
   American FactFinder to select data tabulations and maps from the data
   sets available in the system. You can find a profile of selected
   social, economic, or housing characteristics for states, cities,
   counties, congressional districts, and more.

   Baltimore City Data Collaborative

   Building on previous data efforts, the Baltimore City Data
   Collaborative was established in May, 1998 to provide data, analysis,
   and evaluation support for the activities of the Family League of
   Baltimore City and the Baltimore Safe & Sound Campaign, as well as to
   serve as a resource for the city as a whole.

   Bureau of the Census

   The Bureau of the Census Current Population Survey (CPS) contains
   detailed health insurance statistics by state. This site provides
   access to reports and tables that can be used to measure changes in
   health insurance coverage of low-income families. Researchers can
   access the statistical data and create their own reports.

   Community 2020 information

   Community 2020TM software is an exciting new desktop geographic
   information system (GIS) that is powerful, yet easy to use. It is a
   collaboration between the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
   Development (HUD) and Caliper Corporation. Community 2020 brings to
   life an extensive array of demographic, economic, and HUD program data
   in the form of vivid, intelligent maps. The software facilitates a
   better understanding of the character of a neighborhood, city, or
   state.

   Community YouthMapping

   Community YouthMapping is young people canvassing their neighborhoods
   in search of places to go and things to do. Young people called mappers
   canvass their neighborhoods, using a survey tool, to gather baseline
   information on the resources available for young people, children and
   families in their communities. The Center defines resources as places
   to go, opportunities and things to do.

   Community/Federal Information Partnership

   A presentation by Dr. Mark Schaefer, U.S. Department of Interior, on a
   Community/Federal Information Partnership that aims to advance the
   National Spatial Data Infrastructure. The slides contain information on
   GIS and Community Demonstration Projects, including Baltimore, MD, and
   San Diego, CA.

   Crime Mapping Research Center at the National Institute of Justice

   Established in 1997, the goal of the Center is the promotion, research,
   evaluation, development, and dissemination of GIS (geographic
   information systems) technology and the spatial analysis of crime.

   Crime Maps on the Web: Chicago, Illinois

   Chicago's ICAM - - Information Collection for Automated Mappingis an
   easy-to-use computerized mapping program designed to help Chicago
   police officers analyze and work with the city's communities to solve
   neighborhood crime problems. With ICAM, beat officers and other police
   personnel can pull up timely, accurate maps of beat, sector, district,
   or citywide crime incidents, analyzed by time of day and day of week.
   This "snapshot" of what is going on helps officers look for trends and
   hot spots; it then lets them work together with community members to
   develop responses to problems. The system also provides maps that are
   shared with Neighborhood Watch, Ameritech Cellular Phone Patrols, and
   other community groups.

   Crime Maps on the Web: Evansville, Indiana

   The crime information page, a project of The Evansville Courier & Press
   is designed to alert citizens to crime in the city. This page features
   a live police scanner and weekly crime information maps. Citizens can
   also click on a link to hear live transmissions on the public police &
   fire frequencies in Vanderburgh County, Indiana.

   Crime Maps on the Web: Sacramento, CA

   The Sacramento Police Department posts crime maps and statistics by
   neighborhood on the web and lets citizens file crime and commendation
   reports on-line.

   Crime Maps on the Web: San Diego, California

   The San Diego Police Department has used computerized crime mapping
   since 1989 as part of its successful crime reduction strategy. Its
   earliest crime mapping efforts were simple snapshots of criminal
   activity with little analysis. In 1994, however, the department
   reorganized itself around the concept of neighborhood problem-solving
   and delineated patrol beats by neighborhood rather than by precinct.
   This proactive strategy of neighborhood problem-solving takes direct
   aim at the elements that contribute to criminal activity by encouraging
   officers to look beyond an individual crime to the underlying causes of
   crime.

   Crime Maps on the Web: Tempe, Arizona

   The Tempe Police Department posts crime maps and statistics by
   neighborhood on its web site.

   Enterprise GIS in Health and Social Service Agencies - An ESRI White
   Paper, July 1999

   This white paper is intended to assist decision makers in health and
   social service agencies by providing (1) a definition of geographic
   information system (GIS) and enterprise GIS and the benefits and issues
   of GIS in the health and social service arena and (2) a description of
   the planning process needed to establish enterprise GIS in a given
   organization. (NOTE: Adobe Acrobat Reader is required to view this
   document.)

   ESRI Home Page

   ESRI is a leading provider of GIS software.

   ESRI Library of GIS links

   Starting here, you can visit interesting GIS application sites, gather
   helpful information from other ESRI users and connect with GIS people
   in your area.

   ESRI: Geography Matters to Health

   Most problems facing the world and health today--environmental,
   economic, political, social--exist in a geographic context and any
   analysis must consider that. Understanding issues ranging from
   epidemiology to access to healthcare providers requires understanding
   the geographic context of these issues. The ESRI health industry
   offerings provides health professionals with the resources to meet
   their unique challenges.

   Federal Geographic Data Committee

   The Federal Geographic Data Committee coordinates the development of
   the National Spatial Data Infrastructure (NSDI). The NSDI encompasses
   policies, standards, and procedures for organizations to cooperatively
   produce and share geographic data. The site houses the Geospatial Data
   Clearinghouse, a collection of over 100 spatial data servers, that have
   digital geographic data primarily for use in Geographic Information
   Systems (GIS), image processing systems, and other modeling software.

   Florida Department of Education: Florida School Indicators Report

   The Florida School Indicators Report is designed as a ready-reference
   guide providing data on every school for each of Floridas 67 school
   districts. The report allows quick comparisons between schools and
   districts using a single source. Figures are compiled from the
   Department of Educations automated student, staff, and finance
   databases using data reported by the school districts.

   Free Web Seminars on GIS from MapInfo

   These educational forums will fuel your imagination and help you see
   how to apply mapping and demographic analysis tools to your
   organization.

   Georgia GIS Data Clearinghouse

   The Georgia GIS Data Clearinghouse was established in March 1996 by the
   Information Technology Policy Council of Georgia and implemented by the
   University System of Georgia, with funding provided by the State of
   Georgia. The purpose of the Clearinghouse is to collect, document,
   format, and publish GIS information collected by multiple agencies of
   Georgia state government.

   Innovative Summer Youth Employment Program: Teens Become Inner City
   Mappers

   A great article in ArcNews Online. Initiated by the Greater Eastside
   Community Association, this unique, collaborative GIS project had three
   basic objectives. The first objective was to provide summer employment
   for inner-city youth; the second was to teach them marketable job
   skills; and the third was to have them provide a service for their
   community by mapping Brownfields in Flint and Genesee County, Michigan.

   Internet Resources for Crime Mapping

   50 Internet resources related to crime mapping, including Web sites
   displaying crime maps, GIS and analysis software, hot spot
   identification methods, sources of census data, and virtual reality
   viewers. From the National Institute of Justice Report, Mapping Crime:
   Principle and Practice.

   Kids Count

   KIDS COUNT is a national and state-by-state project of the Casey
   Foundation to track the status of children in the United States. The
   site contains custom graphs, maps, rankings, state profiles, and more!

   Mapping Crime

   This National Institite of Justice report, Mapping Crime: Principle and
   Practice presents a broad approach and addresses the kinds of questions
   crime mapping can answer and how it can answer them. More than 110
   colorful maps illustrate how geographic information systems GIS) are
   used to analyze crime problems. The appendix lists 50 Internet
   resources related to crime mapping, including Web sites displaying
   crime maps, GIS and analysis software, hot spot identification methods,
   sources of census data, and virtual reality viewers.

   Mapping Out Crime

   This reportthe work of the Department of Justice and the National
   Partnership for Reinventing Governmentdescribes what some of the most
   innovative law enforcement agencies in the country are doing. They are
   applying cutting-edge information technologies such as crime mapping to
   drive management decisions and to create real partnerships with
   communities to prevent and reduce crime.

   Meta-Indexes for State and Local Government Information

   This site, provided as a resource by the Library of Congress, contains
   links to information from state and local governments.

   Midwest Research Institute Outcome Indicators Management

   Midwest Research Institute (MRI) has developed a proprietary software
   system, CIRES, that establishes a new standard of ease for working with
   outcome indicators data sets. CIRES (Computerized Indicator Retrieval
   and Evaluation System) is a Windows-based program that makes it
   possible for analysts to quickly retrieve data and produce tables,
   graphs, and maps with the click of a button.

   National Association of Counties (NACo) - Information Technology

   NACo's Information Technology projects assist counties in the
   development of services and projects related to information technology,
   information systems and technical standards as well as providing
   resources to additional information and technology vendors. Curent NACo
   Information Technology projects include GIS.

   National Association of Counties (NACo) Survey of technology in
   counties

   NACo commissioned the random survey of 501 county governments to
   examine how well counties use information technology. The survey found
   that the nations smallest counties, especially those below 50,000
   population, are least likely to provide interactive services for
   citizens on the Internet and are least likely to have adopted policies
   and ordinances governing Internet activity.

   National Center for Children in Poverty

   The National Center for Children in Poverty focuses on three enduring
   and interdependent sets of mission-driven activities: 1) Defining the
   nature, scope, and impact of young child poverty; 2) Identifying and
   evaluating strategies to improve the lives of young children in poverty
   and to reduce the young child poverty rate; and 3) Communicating facts
   about young child poverty and promoting strategies to reduce the young
   child poverty rate and help children overcome the risks associated with
   poverty.

   National States Geographic Information Council (NSGIC)

   NSGIC is an organization of States committed to efficient and effective
   government through the prudent adoption of information technology. The
   NSGIC membership includes nationally and internationally recognized
   experts in geographic information systems (GIS), and data and
   information technology policy. This site includes State contacts,
   conference information, and useful state and federal links.

   OpenGIS

   OpenGIS is defined as transparent access to heterogeneous geodata and
   geoprocessing resources in a networked environment. The goal of the
   OpenGIS Project is to provide a comprehensive suite of open interface
   specifications that enable developers to write interoperating
   components that provide these capabilities.

   PlanGraphics, Inc, Helps with GIS and Related Technologies

   PlanGraphics, Inc., is the leading international designer and
   implementor of GIS and related technologies. Since 1979, PlanGraphics
   has helped hundreds of government, utility, and industry clients manage
   the technical and institutional challenges of successfully automating
   geographic information.

   Portland State University Child Welfare Partnership

   This Interactive Graphing Program contains three categories of
   Benchmarks data including People, the Economy and Quality of Life.

   Tools for Community Design and Decision-Making

   U.S. Department of Energy's broad-based solicitation for information
   dissemination.

   University GIS Consortium

   The University Consortium for Geographic Information Science (UCGIS) is
   a non-profit organization of universities and other research
   institutions dedicated to advancing our understanding of geographic
   processes and spatial relationships through improved theory, methods,
   technology, and data.

   Vermont Children's Well-Being Online

   This Mapping System enables the public to interactively map the key
   indicators of children's well-being in Vermont by county, school
   supervisory union, and by school. Much of what is mapped here has been
   extracted from the Vermont DOE 1998 School Report, and the Vermont AHS
   1997-98 Community Profiles. We have also included additional links on
   the map to county social/economic indicator tables, which have been
   provided by the UVM Center for Rural Studies (CRS).

   Text Only | News | Contact Us | Privacy Statement | Home
