http://cdinternal.fnal.gov/travel/tripreport04_18_01.htm


[image001.gif]

              Fermilab

                                                           FermiNationalAcceleratorLaboratory

                                                            Computing Division ·P.O. Box 500

                                                                     Batavia, Illinois·60510

                           Submit Trip Reports to

                               E Judy Hentges

                              jhentges@fnal.gov

                                     or

                                Jo Ann Larson

                              jlarson@fnal.gov

                          and we will submit to the

                              Directors Office

                         INSTRUCTIONS FOR SUBMITTING

                         FOREIGN TRAVEL TRIP REPORTS

   DOE considers narrative trip reports very important and failure to
   submit one will lead to disapproval of future trips.Trip reports are
   intended to be a principal mechanism for timely and orderly
   dissemination of information and for ensuring that DOE, as a whole,
   receives the greatest possible benefit from foreign travel by
   individuals.Trip reports are a means for identifying, describing, and
   evaluating foreign energy and other scientific activities and for
   providing information on the planning and evaluation of international
   cooperation on energy.In addition, trip reports provide as basis for
   evaluating and monitoring the benefit of foreign travel to DOEs
   programs and committments; thereby, these reports are an integral
   element in DOEs overall foreign travel planning and control system.

   Trip reports are required within 10 days after return to Fermilab and
   should be submitted to the appropriate Division/Section Office for
   approval.The Div. Travel Rep. will forward the trip report to the
   Directors Officer per the instructions below.

   For travel to sensitive countries, trip reports must be turned in 10
   days after date of return.

   Trip reports for DOE employees and contractors are to consist of the
   two parts described below.

   1.Part 1 is to be an extract of the foreign travel trip request form,
   with an abstract of the results of the trip.This page should be on
   either Fermilab memo head or letterhead.

   a.Part 1 ofthe trip report must not contain classified information.

   b.Part 1 will be included in a limited-access electronic database
   available to DOE.Therefore, the trip report must be submitted
   electronically by your Division Travel Rep as a Microsoft Word document
   to the Directors Office.

   Part 1 of the trip report must contain the following information in the
   following format:

(1)                  title of the report (i.e., "Travel to___");
(2)                  division number assigned by your Foreign Travel Rep. (i.e.
PP#, T#, C#, B#, D#);  (Your Travel Rep will enter this number for you)
(3)                  report date (MM,DD,YYYY);
(4)                  date(s) of travel (detailed, MM,DD,YYYY) (including date of
 departure and return);

(5)                  name of all Fermilab traveler(s) on this trip;

(6)                  position/title of the traveler;

(7)                  organization (Fermilab) and the DOE code which for us is FA
;

(8)                  business address including street, city, and zip code;

(9)                  FTMS trip number-Your Div Travel Rep will enter this number
 for you);

(10)              travel destinations (list organization, facility, city, state/
province, country);

(11)              vacation days (city, state/province, country);

(12)              brief purpose of the trip (include the justification from the
foreign travel request);

(13)              people contacted;

(14)              facilities visited;

(15)              abstract (such as major highlights, benefits of the travel, re
sults of meetings, including their locations);

   c.Each member of a group trip must write Part 1.

   2.Part 2 of the trip report will provide a complete report on and
   thorough analysis of the trip and must also include (1) (11) above.

   a.Part 2 should include the results of any meetings or discussions with
   representatives of foreign organizations.

   b.When more than one traveler follows the same schedule, only one
   member of the party needs to report on each meeting or event that took
   place.

   c.When appropriate, Part 2 should also include observations,
   conclusions, speculations and information relating to the safety,
   health, and security of future travelers.

   d.Part 2 of the trip report will be used for programmatic purposes and
   will not be forwarded to OSTI.(Travel Rep will take care of this for
   you)

   e.Part 2 of the trip report must also provide the actual cost of the
   trip to DOE (the total DOE funding amount).You will have to have
   completed the Expense Voucher at this time in order to arrive at your
   actual totals.

   (Your Travel Rep will enter this for you)

   Trip reports will be forwarded by the Directors Office and Div Travel
   Reps.

   Trip reportsmust be done in two distinct parts.
