http://www.ndpo.gov/stakeholders.htm



Home

Mission

Emergency
Responders

Profile

Services

Stakeholders

The Beacon

Information Bulletins

NDPO Blueprint (pdf)

Contact Us

Press Pages

Federal WMD Training Compendium (pdf)

Fact Sheets

What's New In The NDPO



                                     NDPO, National Domestic Preparedness Office

                                     Stakeholders

   The Forum

   The State and Local Domestic Preparedness Stakeholders Forum consisted
   of more than 200 state and local emergency response planners and
   practitioners from across the United States, meeting at the invitation
   of the Attorney General to discuss current federal efforts to help them
   prepare for and respond to acts of terrorism. Over the two days of the
   Forum, these fire/hazmat, law enforcement, medical, and emergency
   management professionals identified needs and recommended solutions in
   an effort to assist in structuring a cooperative approach to this grave
   challenge. Ultimately, the attendees presented the Attorney General
   with strategic recommendations in five critical areas, reflecting a
   broad consensus among all the participating responder disciplines and
   jurisdictions, large and small.

                     Emergency Responders rescue people

   The Process

   On the first day of the conference, participants were assigned to
   working groups broken out along functional/professional lines (Law
   Enforcement, Fire/Hazmat, Medical/EMS, City Emergency Management, State
   Emergency Management). These functional work groups were asked to
   identify critical needs and propose solutions, with the six most
   important being reported out in a plenary session at the end of day
   one. Literally hundreds of needs and possible actions were listed, but
   a priority list totaling 30 need/solution sets was submitted by the
   five working groups. These 30 need/solution sets were, in turn, placed
   into categories and assigned to five multidisciplinary groups on day
   two. The multidisciplinary groups were tasked with developing practical
   strategies for addressing the needs and realizing solutions, and with
   reporting them out to the Attorney General and other key federal
   officials in a final plenary session.

   The Strategies

   The following is a summary of the key strategy recommendations
   developed by the state and local stakeholders. They reflect each of the
   five working groups consensus recommendations for federal action
   intended to enhance the effectiveness of all government agencies in
   responses to acts of domestic terrorism.

                        Site of Emergency Responders

     Group One: National Policy

     The President should identify a single lead federal agency to
     implement Domestic Preparedness. The President should establish an
     Advisory Group drawn from all stakeholder jurisdictions. Within six
     months, the lead agency, with the Advisory Group, should produce a
     comprehensive systematic plan for implementation of Training,
     Equipment Acquisition, Infrastructure Improvements, Intelligence
     Sharing, Operational Procedure and Process Enhancements, Sustainment
     of Training and Equipment, and Public Awareness Education.

     Group Two: Information Sharing and Outreach

     Support creation of a nationwide, standardized communications system
     that addresses: Interoperability Among Responders, Secure Access,
     New Technology, Sustainability, and Removal of Regulatory
     Impediments. Improve the information sharing process to reflect an
     understanding of the real-time roles and responsibilities of local,
     state, and federal governments before, during and after a terrorist
     event.

     Group Three: Equipment

     Develop a matrix of recommended protective levels for various
     responder disciplines. Establish a federal-level equipment
     information clearinghouse to provide data and feedback on R&D,
     equipment availability, and operational testing and performance
     data. Disburse federal funds to state and local governments for
     purchases of terrorism response equipment; allow these
     jurisdictions, if they desire, to utilize the federal procurement
     system. Facilitate responder access to state-of-the-art commercial
     and Department of Defense detection, personal protective equipment,
     and communications technologies. Support establishment, supply and
     maintenance of regional pharmaceutical and medical equipment caches.
     Departments of Justice and Defense establish procedures for rapid
     access to community-based federal assets as a supplement to first
     responder anti-terrorism equipment and personnel.

     Group Four: Training

     Develop a single, integrated federal training program based on needs
     assessment. Use the national standard (NFPA 472, 473) as the basis
     for training. Use existing training delivery mechanisms when
     available. Ensure a sustained training and exercise effort.
     Reimburse local jurisdictions for personnel costs associated with
     ongoing training. Develop a plan to update training materials.
     Collect information on new technology and response techniques and
     get the information to the response community. Establish a
     single-source information "clearinghouse." Reduce redundancy and
     prioritize training to state and local jurisdictions.

     Group Five: Operational Procedures and Processes

     Develop and implement a standardized, coordinated integrated
     response system that includes common principles of the widely
     accepted command systems. Establish procedures and protocols for
     sharing threat assessments and information, including a national
     policy for threat-based information sharing. Establish a
     multi-disciplinary task force to develop criteria and protocols for
     sharing critical information. Integrate the health care community
     into the planning, evaluation, and implementation of the nation's
     response to terrorism. Provide comprehensive programs to ensure
     awareness, education, and training. Finally, provide the means to
     improve communications with other disciplines.
