http://www.dis.anl.gov/msv/msv_cas.html

   [cas.jpg]
   Home: Modeling, Simulation, and Visualization
   Models: Modeling, Simulation, and Visualization
   PORTSIM - Port Simulator
   TRANSCAP
   ELIST - Enhanced Logistics Intra-theater Support Tool
   2D Viewer
   3D Animation

                                              Security notice | Disclaimer

   The Argonne National Laboratory (ANL) Complex Adaptive Systems (CAS)
   program is actively involved with agent-based modeling and simulation
   (ABMS) of physical, economic and social systems. Our current efforts
   include work on the Electricity Market Complex Adaptive Systems model
   (EMCAS), the Spot Market Agent Research Tools, and the Flexible Agent
   Simulation Toolkit.

   A list of our CAS publications, including some full papers, is
   available. Additional CAS links are also available.

   The University of Chicago's Social Science Research Computing and ANL's
   CAS Program will jointly hold the Agent2002: Ecology, Exchange and
   Evolution Conference on Social Agents, on October 11 and 12, 2002.The
   call for papers is available here. Proceedings from both the 1999 and
   2000 joint workshops are also available.

   For general readers, the August 14, 2000, Computerworld Technology
   Future Watch article, The Perfect Swarm, includes a simple and short
   ABMS overview that features some of our work.

   For more information contact Dr. Charles M. Macal, Ph.D., or Michael J.
   North.
   DIAS - Dynamic Information Architecture System
   OO-IDLAMS
   [CAS_click.gif]
   Capabilities: Modeling, Simulation, and Visualization
   Staff: Modeling, Simulation, and Visualization
   Publications: Modeling, Simulation, and Visualization
   Contacts: Modeling, Simulation, and Visualization
   DIS Home
   DIS Home
   DIS Site Map
   Search DIS
   [image002.jpg]

       A View from the Spot Market Agent Research Tool Virtual Reality
                              Immersion System

         Argonne National Laboratory | Security notice | Disclaimer
