http://murray.senate.gov/~murray/releases/01/11/2001B30913.html

                              [pressheader.gif]

         Murray Secures $447 Million Increase in Coast Guard Funding
     Chairman Murray highlights Search and Rescue, National Distress and
         Response System and Pay Increases for Coast Guard Personnel

   For Immediate Release: November 30, 2001

   (WASHINGTON, D.C.) U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-Wash.) announced today
   that the Fiscal Year 2002 Transportation Appropriations Conference
   Report provides significant new funding for the Coast Guard.

   As chair of the Senate Transportation Appropriations Subcommittee,
   Senator Murray succeeded in securing a 10 percent increase in Coast
   Guard funding.

   The $5.03 billion Coast Guard budget for FY 2002 is $447 million more
   than $4.583 billion.

   The Report is awaiting a final vote in both houses of Congress, before
   being sent to the President for his consideration.

   "The Coast Guard is a priority for Washington state, it's a priority to
   the country, and my subcommittee will continue to work closely and
   cooperatively with the Coast Guard to protect the public and its
   personnel," said Murray.

   Under Murray's supervision, the Senate Transportation Subcommittee held
   two hearings regarding the Coast Guard's Search and Rescue Operations
   earlier this year.

   The Subcommittee was disturbed by declining rates of rescue of
   distressed mariners as well as serious staffing, training and equipment
   shortfalls at Coast Guard Search and Rescue stations.

   "We had to address serious and growing problems in the Coast Guard
   Search and Rescue operations," Senator Murray said. "The Conference
   Report increases the budget request by $8 million for search and rescue
   to modernize its equipment and train personnel. We expect to see
   improvements in this area very soon."

   The Conference Report fully funds a modernization initiative for the
   National Distress and Response System. The Report sets a number of
   milestones for the Coast Guard including --

     filing all voice communications and recording gaps in marine coastal
   areas at high risk for accidents and fatalities;

     increased capability to locate distressed vessels by the origin of
   distress signals;

     increased communications capabilities between the Coast Guard and
   other federal and state search and rescue assets;

     and full Coast Guard compatibility with international communications
   standards.

   "We must modernize the Maritime 911 system. Its not an option, it is a
   responsibility that we take very seriously," Senator Murray said.

   "We also acted to provide increased pay and benefits to our valued
   Coast Guard personnel. Our Coast Guard families make enormous
   sacrifices on behalf of drug interdiction and safety on our coasts and
   inland waterways," Senator Murray said.

   The Transportation Conference Report provides an increase of $36.7
   million for pay and benefit improvements including increased
   compensation, housing and subsistence allowances, and health care.

   The Committee anticipates that increased pay and benefits will assist
   the Coast Guard in retaining senior personnel which has been a
   significant challenge due to private sector competition.

                                     ###
