http://www.pueblo.gsa.gov/call/consumer.htm


     Image of Federal Consumer Information Center star linking to the
   Federal Consumer Information Center web site
   Red button linking to National Contact Center's home page
   Red button linking to the Consumer Action Handbook
   Red button linking to www.kids.gov page
   Red button linking to the federal phone directories page
   Red button linking to the toll free phone directories page

                               Popular Topics
   Congress
   Consumer Topics
   Recalls
   Freedom of Information Act
   Federal Employment
   Privacy Act
   Medicare and Medicaid
   Federal Grants
   Federal Loans
   Savings Bonds
   Government Publications
   The Draft
   Finding Military Personnel
   Social Security
   Passports/Travel Abroad
   Workplace Issues
   Presidential Greetings
   Order a Flag

     Image linking to FirstGov "Your first click to the U.S. Government"
                               Text Version
                                 Site Map
                              Privacy Policy
                            Security Statement

         Title bar linking to National Contact Center's home page.

                              Consumer Topics

       | General Information | Telephone Slamming | Bill Collectors |

   General Information

   To browse through a broad range of federal information resources
   available online, you may want to visit the U.S. Consumer Gateway web
   site maintained by the Federal Trade Commission.  The Consumer Gateway
   site is designed so that you can locate information by category -- such
   as Food, Health, Product Safety, Your Money, and Transportation. Each
   category has subcategories to direct you to areas within individual
   federal web sites containing related information. It also has
   information on fraudulent and deceptive practices in the market place
   and important law-enforcement information and tips to avoid scams.

   Many general consumer matters are better handled or - in some cases -
   exclusively handled by State and/or local government and we encourage
   you to check with these authorities in addition to Federal offices.

   If you’re unsure which agency in your State would handle a particular
   issue, you may call our National Contact Center toll-free
   1-800-688-9889 (TDD/TTY users, call: 1-800-326-2996), or check our
   State and Local Government web page.

   For general guidance on resolving consumer complaints, take a look
   through the Consumer Action Handbook, available through the Federal
   Consumer Information Center.

   Telephone Slamming

   This is the illegal practice of changing your long distance company
   without your permission. If you feel this has happened to you, your
   best source for information is the Federal Communications Commission.

   Bill Collectors

   Both Federal and State laws regulate the activities of certain bill and
   debt collectors. If you are not sure whether a bill collector is
   respecting your rights under your State’s laws, you may inquire at the
   appropriate office within your State (check our State and Local
   Government web page), often the office of the Attorney General. You may
   check about compliance to Federal law on the web site of the Federal
   Trade Commission. Image linking to top of page

   Last Updated: October 26, 2001

                 Logo of the General Services Administration
   This service is provided by the Federal Consumer Information Center of
     the U.S. General Services Administration. If you have a comment or
                question, e-mail us at catalog.pueblo@gsa.gov
