http://www.tda.gov/trade/press/Jan30_02.html

   [ TDA Update ] [ TDA Calendar ] [ Business Briefings ] [ Press Releases
   ] [ Conferences ] blank box


   Colombian Officials to Study U.S. Expertise in Aeronautical Meteorology

   For Immediate Release

   Arlington, VA - (January 30, 2002) Earlier today, the U.S. Trade and
   Development Agency (TDA) announced that Colombian delegates will visit
   the United States next month to see how the U.S. government integrates
   air traffic control systems with weather forecasting systems to provide
   safe air travel across the country.

   During this 10-day visit, sponsored by TDA, Colombian officials will
   meet with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the National
   Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) in Washington, D.C. These
   meetings will provide discussion on how the two agencies work together
   to integrate meteorology systems with air traffic management.

   The delegation will also visit Denver International Airport, FAA's air
   route traffic control center in Longmont, Colorado, NOAA's Forecasting
   Systems Laboratory in Boulder, Colorado, the National Centers for
   Environmental Predication's (NCEP) Aviation Weather Center in Kansas
   City, Missouri, and NCEP's Tropical Prediction Center at Florida
   International University in Miami, Florida.

   "Visiting various aeronautical and meteorological sites throughout the
   United States will provide the Colombian delegation a very good
   perspective of U.S. expertise and technology and its applicability to
   Colombia," said TDA Director Thelma Askey. "For example, the terrain at
   Denver International Airport is very similar to that of Bogotá."

   Representatives of the Colombian Civil Aeronautics Agency, Colombian
   Ministry of Transportation, and the Colombian Hydrology, Meteorology
   and Environmental Research Institute will meet with U.S. companies
   during a business briefing on Thursday, February 26, in Washington,
   D.C.

   "The Colombian officials are planning to purchase more than $12 million
   in aeronautical and meteorological equipment," noted Askey. "The one
   day business briefing gives TDA a chance to showcase U.S. private
   sector expertise in this field. In addition, one-on-one meetings
   provide an opportunity for U.S. companies to meet individually with
   these officials."

   The business briefing will take place at the Hilton Washington Embassy
   Row Hotel in Washington, D.C. Advanced registration for the event is
   $40 and onsite registration is $50. Breakfast, lunch, coffee breaks,
   and meeting materials are included in the registration fee. Bob Ryan,
   Chief Meteorologist at NBC News4, is the invited luncheon speaker. For
   more information, or to register for the business briefing, visit
   http://www.tech-res-intl.com/tda/aeromet.

   The U.S. Trade and Development Agency promotes American private sector
   participation by helping U.S. companies pursue business opportunities
   in developing and middle income countries. Through the funding of
   feasibility studies, orientation visits, specialized training grants,
   business workshops, and various forms of technical assistance, we help
   American businesses compete for infrastructure projects in emerging
   markets. In addition, the agency promotes capacity building initiatives
   and supports U.S. government trade, economic policy and development
   objectives around the world.

                                   - 30 -

   Back to Press Releases

   [space_green.gif] [tda_logo.gif]
   About Us
   News and Events
   TDA Bi-weekly Pipeline
   Library Holdings
   TDA by Region and Sector
   How to Work with TDA
   Related Links
   Contact Us
   Job Opportunities
   Site Index
   image used for layout alignment
   [USEMAP:toolbar_tda.gif]
