http://www4.sss.gov/instructions.html

   Seal of the Selective Service System
   Registration Information
   About the Agency
   News and Public Affairs
   Publications
   History and Records
   What Happens in a Draft

   Fast Facts



   News and Public Affairs Banner

                                INSTRUCTIONS
         For filling out the "Request for Status Information Letter"
    Click Here for the printable "Request for Status Information Letter"
                        REQUIRES ADOBE ACROBAT READER


   SECTION 1:
   Name: you must provide your complete name, and any other names you have
   ever used. If you have more than one last name, you must provide both
   names.
   Address: you must include your complete mailing address. Forms received
   without a mailing address will not be processed.
   Social Security Account Number: If you have a Social Security Account
   Number, you must provide it. Also, if you have ever used a different
   Social Security Account Number, provide that as well.
   Date of Birth: This form is only for men born after December 31, 1959,
   who are 26 years old or older. You must provide your complete date of
   birth.
   Daytime Telephone Number: If possible, provide a telephone number where
   you can be reached during the day, in case we need to contact you.
   E-mail Address: If possible, provide your e-mail address in case we
   need to contact you.


   SECTION 2:
   This section is for explaining and documenting why you did not register
   with Selective Service. This section consists of five different parts.
   You must complete and submit documentation for any and all parts that
   apply to you.
   Military: To obtain proof of military service, you may call the
   Veterans Administration at (800) 827-1000, or write to: National
   Personnel Records Center, GSA, Military Personnel Records, 9700 Page
   Blvd., St. Louis, MO, 63132.
   Incarcerated, institutionalized, hospitalized, or confined to home: for
   each instance, provide type of confinement, dates of confinement, and
   supporting documentation.
     * Non Citizen / Alien:
     * If you entered the United States for the first time after your 26th
       birthday, you must provide documentation to support your claim.
       Valid documentation includes: entry stamp in your passport, I-94
       with entry stamp on it, or a letter from the Immigration and
       Naturalization Service(INS) indicating the date you entered the
       United States. If you entered the United States illegally after
       your 26th birthday, you must provide proof that you were not living
       in the United States from age 18 to age 26. Please note: your
       Resident Alien Card (Green Card) is not valid as proof of entry to
       the United States.
     * If you entered the United States as a valid non-immigrant alien,
       and remained in that status to your 26th birthday, you must provide
       documentation to support your claim. For example, if you entered
       the United States as an F-1 Student, and remained in that status
       until your 26th birthday, you would need to provide documentation
       indicating that you were admitted on an F-1 visa and attended
       school full-time as required. (Acceptable documents for this
       situation include copies of your I-20s or a letter from the school
       you attended indicating your full time attendance as a
       non-immigrant alien). The same thing applies for all non-immigrant
       statuses. You must explain, if at any point, you violated the terms
       of your visa, or overstayed your visa and became an undocumented
       alien.
     * You should provide as much information as possible. We will use the
       information you provide to determine your registration status.

   Transsexual: For individuals who have had a sex change. You must
   indicate what gender you were born as, and attach documentation which
   indicates this as well.

   Reason why you failed to register with Selective Service upon reaching
   age 18 and before reaching age 26: Provide a written explanation for
   not registering with Selective Service.

   SECTION 3:
   Sign and date the letter. Return this letter to the address listed with
   copies of requested documents, and anything else you may wish to
   include. Do not send original documents, as they will not be returned.
   You should retain a copy of all documents and correspondence submitted.


   HELPFUL INFORMATION
     * This form is designed to be printed for use, and cannot be
       completed on line. After printing, complete the form, attach
       appropriated documentation, and mail to: Selective Service System,
       ATTN: SIL, PO Box 94638, Palatine, IL 60094-4638.
     * This form is for use only by men born after December 31, 1959, who
       are not registered and are now 26 years old or older.
     * This form is not a registration form, and by submitting it, you
       will not be registered.
     * If you feel that you have already registered, verify your
       registration on our website (www.sss.gov), or call our Registration
       Information Office at (847) 688-6888 to obtain your Selective
       Service number.
     * E-mail or fax transmissions of this form will not be accepted.
     * We will issue a Status Information Letter based on the information
       you provide. This letter will clarify your status with Selective
       Service.
     * If you are being denied a right, benefit, or privilege because you
       are not registered, submit a copy of your Status Information Letter
       and an explanation for your failure to register, to the Agency
       administering the right, benefit, or privilege. That Agency will
       make the final determination regarding your eligibility. The
       Selective Service System does not determine your eligibility for
       any right, benefit, or privilege.


          FAQs | Contact SSS | Related Links | Check a Registration

                                  Red Line

     Home | Registration Info | About the Agency | News & Public Affairs
     Publications | History/Records | What Happens in a Draft | Site Map

                           Revised July 17, 2001.
