http://windows.lbl.gov/facilities/Mowitt/mowitt.html

   [USEMAP:bannerPage.gif]



                             [iconHome_blnk.gif]
         [glazing_materials.gif] [ec_initiative.gif] [a_systems.gif]
   [window_properties.gif] [daylighting.gif] [residential_performance.gif]
                        [commercial_performance.gif]



   MoWiTT: Mobile Window Thermal Test Facility

      [mowitt.jpg]

      The window has come a long way since the days when it was a single pane
      of glass in a wood frame. Low-emissivity windows were designed to help
      buildings retain some of the energy that would have leaked out of less
      efficient windows. Designing efficient window-and-frame systems
      requires accurate measurement of the flow of energy through windows in
      realistic conditions, a capability provided by the Mobile Window
      Thermal Test facility. Consisting of a pair of outdoor, room-sized
      calorimeters, MoWiTT measures the net energy flow through two window
      samples in side-by-side tests using ambient weather conditions. MoWiTT
      characterizes the net energy flow as a function of time and measures
      the temperatures, solar fluxes, and wind conditions to which the
      samples are exposed.

      The net energy flowing through a window is a combination of
      temperature- driven thermal flows and transmission of incident solar
      energy, both of which vary with time. U-value and solar heat gain
      coefficient, the window properties that control these flows, depend
      partly on ambient conditions. Window energy flows can affect how much
      energy a building uses, depending on when the window flows are
      available to help meet other energy demands within the building. By
      using the solar gain available through a window, either for winter
      heating or for daylighting, buildings stand to save a significant
      amount of energy. To pursue this strategy successfully, we need to know
      more about the time-dependent energy flows.

      Most window developers are interested in measuring the overall average
      or peak energy demands resulting from these time-dependent flows. They
      obtain energy demands from a complex set of calculations such as a
      building simulation model; in many cases, however, the information
      available to characterize a fenestration may be limited or inadequately
      described in available simulation models, or the user may be skeptical
      of the calculation's results. In these cases, direct performance
      measurements under well- characterized outdoor conditions provide
      performance information with higher confidence levels.

      Most window developers are interested in measuring the overall average
      or peak energy demands resulting from time-dependent energy flows.

      MoWiTT researchers at the Center carry out a DOE-funded program of
      research to characterize fenestration systems and develop publicly
      available calculation methods for predicting fenestration thermal
      performance. Their goals are to assess the performance of
      energy-efficient windows currently available or under development, such
      as the newly emerging superwindows; to identify opportunities for new
      development; and to create a knowledge base that will encourage the
      rational selection of optimal windows in the design process.
      Organizations that have collaborated on these projects include Andersen
      Corp., ASAHI Glass Co., ASHRAE, Cardinal IG, CIEE, LOF Glass Co., The
      Moore Co., PG&E, Rolscreen Co., and Southwall Technologies. In addition
      to its DOE-supported research, MoWiTT is also available for
      privately-funded studies of specific products or window improvement
      options. It can:

        - provide direct comparisons of alternative systems

        - determine effective U-values and solar heat gain factors under
        realistic conditions

        - provide verification of energy-savings calculations

        - measure the energy performance of windows for which calculations
        are unavailable or unreliable.

      MoWiTT users under this arrangement have included the Bonneville Power
      Administration, LOF Glass Co., Cardinal IG, and Andersen Corporation.

      Recent MoWiTT accomplishments include:

        - completion of a multi-year study of the effective exterior heat
        transfer coefficient film experienced by windows in winter
        conditions, and testing of their dependence on wind speed

        - testing of solar heat gain calculation schemes under consideration
        for the National Fenestration Ratings Council's voluntary
        performance ratings

        - testing, in cooperation with Andersen Corp., ASAHI Glass Co.,
        ASHRAE, Cardinal IG, LOF Glass Company, The Moore Co., Rolscreen
        Co., Southwall Technologies, and other companies, of the performance
        of new window technology
