http://www.tigta.gov/document-accessibility-statement.htm


     TIGTA official seal

                                              Treasury Inspector General
                                                for Tax Administration
                                           Document Accessibility Statement


                                                        Handicap Symbol

     The Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA) is
     committed to making every document on its web site accessible to the
     widest possible audience, including persons with visual disabilities.

     We work with the General Services Administration's Center for IT
     Accommodation (CITA) and TIGTA's own  accessibility specialists
     contractor to insure that our documents are, to the maximum extent
     feasible, accessible to persons using special screen reading software
     and hardware. We comply with Section 508 accessibility requirement and
     follow the guidelines to the fullest extent.

     While the Hypertext Markup Language (HTML) used to create World Wide
     Web pages is generally accessible to persons using screen reading
     devices, you need to be careful in the construction of HTML documents
     to insure maximum accessibility. Essentially everything that you need
     to know about web page accessibility is found on the W3C Web
     Accessibility Initiative web site .

     Many documents on our web site are in Adobe Acrobat PDF (Portable
     Document Format) files. Some PDF files created with Acrobat 5.0 version
     support the Microsoft® Active Accessibility (MSAA) Application
     Programming Interface (API) for the Windows® platform for integration
     with assistive technology products including screen readers from
     vendors such as Freedom Scientific and GW Micro.
     Other PDF files created with version 4.0 or lower are provided with an
     alternate "Text-only" version that is accessible with any screen
     reader.


     ADOBE ACROBAT PORTABLE DOCUMENT FORMAT (PDF) FILES

     Persons using screen reading devices generally cannot directly read
     documents in PDF format. Adobe Systems, Inc., provides a free
     translation service through their Access web pages which will translate
     PDF files to web pages (HTML documents). This can be used in one of
     three ways:
       * The user can go to the Access site and fill out a form. When this
         form is submitted, the server will go get the PDF document,
         translate it, and return it to the user.  [Instructions]
       * The user can send an email message to the Access server, giving the
         address of the document to be translated. The server will then get
         this document and translate it to either a web page or a text
         (ASCII) document. Note that this is the only one of the three
         options that also gives the ability to produce a text document from
         the PDF file.  [Instructions]
       * For systems which are not connected to the Internet, Adobe has a
         free downloadable accessibility plug-in, called Make Accessible
         Adobe 5.0, for use with the latest versions of the Adobe Acrobat
         Reader for Microsoft Windows 3.1, Windows 95/98, or Windows NT.
         This plug-in helps to overcome some of the problems of reading PDF
         documents with screen readers, but for systems with Internet
         access, Adobe recommends using the on-line Access translation
         service instead.

     These methods of making PDF files accessible are adequate for many
     documents. However, they are not adequate for PDF documents in which
     content is included in graphics files or for especially complex
     formatting. In these cases, we provide an alternative format for use
     with screen readers -- an ASCII (text-only), Microsoft Word, or HTML
     version.

     We have one general exception to our policy of making accessible
     versions available for all PDF documents. We are using the Adobe
     Acrobat PDF format as a means of distributing documents or reports.
     These are electronic images of the documents which are intended to be
     printed and used as any other paper form, and do not lend themselves to
     any nongraphical representation.

     Comments on our accessibility policy are invited, and should be sent to
     the TIGTA Webmaster at tigta-webmaster@tigta.treas.gov.
          * To Adobe Acrobat Information Page
          * To TIGTA Home Page


   Updated  07/19/2001
