http://cleanwater.gov/progress/keyact.html

   [space2.gif]

                           Clean Water Initiative

                 Completed Key Actions and Major Milestones

                                  Green Bar

   The Clean Water Action Plan contains 111 key actions designed to
   reinvigorate efforts to restore and protect the nation's waters. The
   following key actions have been completed or have accomplished
   important milestones:
   Focusing on Watersheds
       Smart Growth (#83)
       Unified Watershed Assessments (#94)
       Upgraded Index of Watershed Indicators (#97)
       Watershed Assistance Grants (#103, 109)
       Adopt Your Watershed (#104)
       National Watershed Awards (#105)
       Inventory of Watershed Training Programs (#106)
       [newsmall.gif] Watershed Reinvention Opportunities (#110)
       Improving Information and Citizens' Right to Know
       BEACH Watch (#12)
       Educating about Year of the Ocean (#58)
       Watershed Information Network (#92, 93, 104)
       Protecting Public Health
       Draft Persistent Bioaccumulative Toxins Strategy and Mercury Action
       Plan (#2)
       Contaminated Sediment Strategy (#3)
       Fish Consumption Advisories (#5, 7)
       Multilingual Brochures on Fish Consumption (#6)
       National Commercial Shellfish Resources Classification (#9)
       Beach Action Plan (#11)
       Multi-Agency Source Water Agreement (#15)
       Emergency Response System for Pfiesteria and Major Algal Blooms
       (#51)
       Addressing Polluted Runoff
       Animal Feeding Operations Strategy (#82)
       State Coastal Polluted Runoff Control Programs (#56)
       Almanac of Enforceable State Laws to Control Nonpoint Source Water
       Pollution (#72)
       [newsmall.gif] Enforceable State Authorities for Nonpoint Sources
       (#72)
       Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program Guidance (#65, 66)
       Conservation Buffers (#62, 64)
       Nutrient Assessment Strategy (#74)
       New Curbs on Storm Water Runoff (#79)
       Enhancing Natural Resource Stewardship
       Unified Federal Policy (#19)
       National Forest System Roadless Areas (#21)
       Five Star Restoration Grants (#41)
       Stream Corridor Restoration Handbook (#61)
       Stream Corridor Restoration Demonstration Projects (#61)
       Identification of Essential Fish Habitat (#54)
       [newsmall.gif] Coastal Research and Monitoring Strategy (#59, 60)
       Risk Management (#68)

                                  Green Bar


   Smart Growth icon
   Smart Growth #83
   The Interagency Work Group on Sustainable Communities has completed its
   work to examine the challenges our communities face and some of the
   innovative ways they are meeting those challenges. A final report
   identifies current tools and resources provided by the federal
   government.
   Unified Watershed Assessments
   Unified Watershed Assessments #94
   States and tribes have worked together with the public to identify
   those watersheds that do not meet water quality and other natural
   resource goals. These Unified Watershed Assessments represent the first
   coordinated statement of water quality priorities in the history of our
   clean water programs.
   Index of Water Indicators
   Upgraded Index of Watershed Indicators #97
   In an effort to support the States as they prepare their Unified
   Watershed Assessments, EPA issued an improved version of the popular
   Index of Watershed Indicators (IWI).
   Assistance Grants icon
   Watershed Assistance Grants #103, 109
   River Network announced the first round of mini-grant recipients under
   the Watershed Assistance Grant program, supported by EPA. The grants
   will enable organizations to support local watershed coordinators,
   build watershed partnerships and advance watershed restoration efforts.
   The grants will support short-term organizational development projects;
   amounts range from $1,320 to $30,000.
   Adopt Your Watershed
   Adopt Your Watershed #104
   The Adopt Your Watershed campaign challenges thousands of citizens and
   organizations to join federal agencies and others who are working to
   protect valuable rivers, streams, wetlands, lakes, ground water, and
   estuaries. To encourage stewardship of the nation's water resources,
   EPA is building a voluntary, national catalogue of organizations
   involved in protecting local water bodies, including formal watershed
   alliances, local groups, and schools that conduct activities such as
   volunteer monitoring, cleanups, and restoration projects.
   National Watershed Awards icon
   National Watershed Awards #105
   The Action Plan calls for federal agencies to help expand watershed
   awards. In that spirit, CF Industries honored three communities and one
   corporation in their annual National Watershed Awards in 1999.
   Recipients were recognized for innovative local partnerships that seek
   to imporve water quality by balancing a watershed's environmental and
   economic needs.
   Inventory icons
   Inventory of Watershed Training Programs (#106)
   The Inventory of Watershed Training Courses is developed to help
   readers find training/educational opportunites on watershed protection.
   This document provides one-page summaries of 180 watershed-related
   training courses offered by federal and state agencies, as well as
   resource professionals in the private sector.
   Watershed Reinvention Opportunities
   Watershed Reinvention Opportunities (#110)
   Reinvention is an appropriate heading for actions that Federal agencies
   take to orient Federal programs and regulatory processes on a watershed
   basis and make these programs more collaborative and innovative. This
   report is from the Clean Water Action Plan Workgroup for Reinvention
   Opportunities, a subset of the Watershed Framework team.
   Beach Watch
   BEACH Watch #12
   EPA is initiating a new Beach Watch Program to help States, tribes and
   local governments more effectively monitor and address public health
   risks posed by contaminated beach water. Government agencies at all
   levels will work together to strengthen beach water quality standards
   and testing methods. EPA will improve laboratory test methods for
   detecting contaminants in beach water, invest additional resources in
   testing methods research, and help state, tribes and local governments
   develop routine water quality monitoring programs. For the first time,
   this new Internet site makes available information about beach water
   quality and potential health risks.
   Year of the Ocean
   Educating about Year of the Ocean #58
   In recognition of the importance of the marine environment, the United
   Nations declared 1998 the International Year of the Ocean. This
   designation has provided individual organizations and governments with
   an important opportunity to raise public awareness and understanding of
   the ocean and related issues.
   WIN logo
   Watershed Information Network #92, 93, 104
   The Watershed Information Network (WIN) is an Internet-based tool can
   be used to find and exchange environmental information needed in
   activities to sustain and restore water quality. WIN provides data on
   water quality and specific watersheds as well as information on how to
   network with others, what resources are available, how to start a
   watershed group, the condition of watersheds, and who is at work in
   watersheds.
   Bio Toxins
   Draft Persistent Bioaccumulative Toxins Strategy and Mercury Action
   Plan #2
   The goal of this strategy is to further reduce the risks to human
   health and the environment from existing and future exposure to
   priority persistent, bioaccumulative, and toxic (PBT) pollutants. EPA
   developed this strategy to overcome the remaining challenges in
   addressing PBT pollutants.
   Contaminated Sediment Strategy
   Contaminated Sediment Strategy #3
   To address the ecological and human health risks that contaminated
   sediment poses in many U.S. watersheds, EPA released a Contaminated
   Sediment Management Strategy. In the Strategy, EPA summarizes its
   understanding of the extent and severity of sediment contamination,
   including uncertainties about the dimension of the problem and
   describes a cross-program policy framework to reduce ecological and
   human health risks posed by sediment contamination. EPA estimates that
   10 percent of the nation's lakes, rivers, and bays have sediment
   contaminated with toxic chemicals that can kill fish living in those
   waters or impair the health of people and wildlife who eat contaminated
   fish
   Fish Consumption
   Fish Consumption Advisories #5, 7
   EPA sent letters concerning fish consumption advisories to the heads of
   all State Environmental Agencies, State Public Health Agencies, and
   Natural Resource Management Agencies, and to the leaders of all tribes
   that operate the national water program. The letters are the next step
   in implementing the Action Plan's goal to have nationally consistent
   processes for monitoring fish tissue and communicating fish consumption
   advisories. The letters emphasize the importance of a risk-based fish
   consumption advisory program for protecting public health, especially
   the health of women of child-bearing age, children, and people who for
   economic or cultural reasons eat large amounts of locally-caught fish.
   The letters ask the states and tribes to review their existing fish
   advisory program and compare it to the EPA's National Guidance on Fish
   Consumption Advisories.
   Fish Brochures
   Multilingual Brochures on Fish Consumption #6
   The brochure "Should I eat the fish I catch? A Guide to Healthy Eating
   of the Fish I Catch," was developed by EPA and the Agency for Toxic
   Substances and Disease Registry, United States Public Health Service.
   The brochures are available in English, Spanish, and Hmong.
   National Commercial Shellfish Resources Classification #9
   A report and CD-ROM on the status of national shellfish bed conditions
   and the factors leading to harvest limitations was released in 1999.
   The national shellfish registry assessed more that 4,000 shellfish
   growing areas around the country and identified measures needed to
   reopen closed or restricted shellfish beds.
   Beach Action Plan
   Beach Action Plan #11
   The Beach Action Plan is a multi-year strategy released in March, 1999,
   for reducing the risks of infection to recreational water users through
   improved water quality programs, risk communication, and scientific
   advances. It recognizes that authorities need the flexibility to
   respond to local and regional variations in factors such as pollution
   sources and climate that affect recreational waters. The Beach Action
   Plan describes activities to accomplish two primary objectives: to
   enable consistent management of recreational water quality programs,
   and to improve the science that supports recreational water monitoring
   programs.
   SWA
   Multi-Agency Source Water Agreement #15
   Ten federal agencies signed an agreement directing program authorities,
   technical assistance, data, and enforcement resources to help states,
   tribes, and local communities design and implement their drinking water
   source water assessment and protection programs within the unified
   watershed protection and restoration efforts. This agreement draws on
   program authorities under relevant laws to assign priority to drinking
   water source water areas needing protection.
   Pfiesteria Response
   Emergency Response System for Pfiesteria and Major Algal Blooms #51
   In response to fish lesions, kills, Pfiesteria-like organisms, and
   possible threats to public health, federal agencies have developed and
   coordinated a long-term, national strategy for federally-supported
   research and monitoring on problems associated with harmful algal
   blooms, particularly Pfiesteria and Pfiesteria-like species.
   Animal Feeding Operations
   Animal Feeding Operations Strategy #82
   On March 9, 1999, USDA and EPA released a joint Unified National Animal
   Feeding Operations Strategy to minimize the environmental and public
   health impacts of Animal Feeding Operations.
   Runoff Control Programs
   State Coastal Polluted Runoff Control Programs #56
   Under the Coastal Zone Management Act, coastal states and territories
   are called upon to develop programs to preserve and protect their
   coastal resources. The Act specifically asks states and territories to
   develop programs to reduce the impacts of polluted runoff. All 29
   participating state and territorial programs have been conditionally
   approved.
   Nonpoint Source Almanac
   Almanac of Enforceable State Laws to Control Nonpoint Source Water
   Pollution #72
   This document is a state-by-state report identifying enforceable
   provisions that can apply to nonpoint source discharges in each state.
   Enforceable State Authorities for Nonpoint Sources
   Enforceable State Authorities for Nonpoint Sources #72
   In an effort to provide information on enforceable state authorities
   for ensuring the implementation of nonpoint source measures to achieve
   water quality standards, the Environmental Law Institute (ELI) received
   federal funding to produce a new report entitled, "Putting the Pieces
   Together: State Nonpoint Source Enforceable Mechanisms in Context"
   (June 2000). The report can be accessed directly at the ELI website,
   where it can be viewed, purchased, or downloaded - - as a 486k pdf
   file.
   CREP
   Conservation Reserve Enhancement Program (CREP) Guidance Issued #65, 66
   The Farm Services Agency released final guidelines on the CREP Program.
   So far, eight states have signed up for the program. The USDA is the
   lead on this key action.
   Conservation Buffers icon
   Conservation Buffers #62, 64
   The Action Plan calls for establishment of two million miles of
   conservation buffers on agricultural lands to improve water quality,
   enhance wildlife habitat, and restore biodiversity. Over 720,000 miles
   of buffers along rivers, streams, and field borders have been
   established since 1998.
   Nutrient Assessment Strategy #74
   Nutrient Assessment Strategy #74
   EPA released a national strategy in June 1998 for the development of
   water quality criteria and standards for nutrients. The Clean Water
   Action Plan calls for EPA to publish criteria (i.e. scientific
   information concerning harmful levels of a pollutant) for nutrients.
   These criteria will be used by States to develop numeric nutrient
   provisions of State water quality standards. The new strategy describes
   the process for developing criteria that are appropriate for various
   types of waterbodies and different regions of the country.
   New Curbs icon
   New Curbs on Storm Water Runoff #79
   A new rule was published to protect America's drinking water and
   waterways by curbing storm water runoff. The new storm water regulation
   will reduce storm water runoff from construction sites between one and
   five acres and municipal storm sewer systems in urbanized areas serving
   populations of less than 100,000.
   UFP Icon
   Unified Federal Policy #19
   The proposed Unified Federal Policy for Ensuring a Watershed Approach
   to Federal Land and Resource Management ("Unified Federal Policy") has
   two primary goals: to use a watershed approach to prevent and reduce
   water pollution resulting from federal land and resource management
   activities and to accomplish this in a unified and cost effective
   manner.
   Roadless Areas icon
   National Forest System Roadless Areas #21
   A rule was published in February 1999 that provides a temporary
   moratorium on new road construction in large roadless areas. In
   October, 1999, President Clinton launched an effort to preserve 40
   million pristine acres of roadless areas within America's national
   forests.
   5 star icon
   Five Star Restoration Grants #41
   With the goal of a net increase of 100,000 acres of wetlands per year
   by 2005; the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency is working with its
   River Corridors and Wetlands Restoration Partners on community-based
   wetlands restoration projects in 500 watersheds in the next 5 years.
   The Five Star Restoration Program is specifically designed to meet that
   challenge. Primarily it provides challenge grants, facilitates
   technology/information transfer and partner collaboration, and supports
   peer-to-peer communication programs in an effort to promote
   community-based wetland and riparian restoration projects.
   Stream Corridor Restoration
   Stream Corridor Restoration Handbook #61
   This document is a result of an unprecedented cooperative effort among
   fifteen federal agencies and partners to produce a common reference on
   stream corridor restoration. It responds to a growing national and
   international public interest in restoring stream corridors. This
   document encapsulat es the rapidly expanding body of knowledge related
   to stream corridors and their restoration. It includes the full range
   of possibilities facing restoration practitioners, including no action
   or passive approaches, partial intervention for assisted recovery, and
   substantial intervention for managed recovery.
   Stream Corridor icon
   Stream Corridor Restoration Demonstration Projects #61
   Twelve demonstration project sites were designated in 1999 to showcase
   modern stream corridor restoration technologies. The sites represent a
   variety of geographic location and conditions, with projects designed
   to improve multi-stakeholder partnerships, local communities, and the
   environment.
   Essential Fish icon
   Identification of Essential Fish Habitat #54
   Essential fish habitat was designated for 39 of 40 federal fisheries in
   the United States. Federal fishery management plans must now include
   measure that minimize to the extent practicable the adverse effects of
   fishing on these habitats.
   Coastal Research icon
   Coastal Research and Monitoring Strategy #59, 60
   The Strategy presents a basic assessment of the Nations coastal
   research and monitoring needs, and recommends an integrated framework
   to address the needs of the Nation and the coastal States and Tribes in
   order to protect vital coastal resources. This work is part of a
   renewed effort by the Federal agencies, in partnership with States and
   Tribes to restore and protect the Nations estuarine and coastal areas.
   Risk icon
   Risk Management #68
   Five risk management insurance products have been developed and are
   available from private industries. These include products for producers
   who use best management practices such as integrated pest management,
   nutrient management, and conservation tillage. Six more integrated pest
   management products under development are expected to be available in
   2000.

                        Clean Water Action Plan Home

                              COMMENTS/ SEARCH

                 http://cleanwater.gov/progress/keyact.html
                          Revised December 19, 2000
