http://tgsv5.nws.noaa.gov/Architext/AT-queryhelp.html

                                 Making Queries

   Excite for Web Servers gives web users access to a sophisticated
   concept-based searching engine. But even though the search engine is
   advanced, users can form queries without using a complicated query
   language. This page will help you to choose the queries that will give
   you the best results.

Query Basics

   A query is simply a description of an information need. Unlike Boolean
   systems that search for just those documents containing all the words
   in your query, Excite for Web Servers will search for documents that
   are a best match for the words in your query. Excite for Web Servers
   will also search for documents that are about the same concepts that
   your query describes, so sometimes Excite for Web Servers will bring
   back articles that don't mention any of the words in your original
   query.

   What this means is that your query -- the description of your
   information need -- can be as detailed as you like. Don't worry about
   providing too many words; the more words, the better. Additional words
   in your query will help Excite for Web Servers figure out what concepts
   you're really interested in. On the other hand, Excite for Web Servers
   will do a pretty good job of figuring out what documents are
   interesting to you even if your query is vague.

   For example, let's say you're searching a web site for documents about
   customer support for the Widget2000 product you're using. A good
   starting point would be

        customer support for the Widget2000

   If you have a question about a particular feature of the Widget2000,
   for example the Blurfl upgrade package, you might choose a query like

        customer support for the Blurfl upgrade package
        of the Widget2000

   Even if there are no documents that are actually about the Blurfl
   upgrade, Excite for Web Servers will still show you documents about
   Widget2000 customer support.

Advanced Query Tips

   Here are some suggestions for getting the best results out of Excite
   for Web Servers.

   Only use words that are relevant to your query
          If you're looking for documents about the Widget2000, don't
          enter a query like "Find me all documents about the Widget2000".
          Excite for Web Servers considers all the words in your query to
          be part of your information need, so queries like the previous
          example will find all documents about finding all documents
          about the Widget2000, which may not be exactly what you want.

   Specify multiple forms of the same phrases
          Excite for Web Servers distinguishes between hyphenated and
          un-hyphenated words. So, sometimes it might be necessary to
          explicitly say that you want both versions, for example "CDROM
          CD-ROM". Excite for Web Servers will try to figure out that
          CDROM and CD-ROM are the same, but it never hurts to explicitly
          specify multiple forms.

   Common words are ignored
          Excite for Web Servers doesn't index common words like a, and,
          or the. Consequently, those words in your query will be ignored.
          Excite for Web Servers also ignores numbers; however, it can
          find strings that happen to contain a number, for example 3Com.
