http://forum2000.boulder.nist.gov/F2kJCED.pdf

   1002 J. Chem. Eng. Data 2001, 46, 1002-1006 Forum 2000: Fluid
   Properties for New Technologies, Connecting Virtual Design with
   Physical Reality James C. Rainwater,* Daniel G. Friend, Howard J. M.
   Hanley, Allan H. Harvey, Cynthia D. Holcomb, Arno Laesecke, Joseph W.
   Magee, and Chris Muzny Physical and Chemical Properties Division,
   National Institute of Standards and Technology, 325 Broadway, Boulder,
   Colorado 80305-3328 Forum 2000 was held at the 14th Symposium for
   Thermophysical Properties, with all symposium attendees invited. The
   forum addressed the present needs and priorities for thermophysical
   properties measurements and the challenges facing the experimental
   community. Seven distinguished panelists presented brief overviews of
   issues related to a wide variety of subjects, and three discussion
   periods were held. Topics included whether simulation can replace
   experiment, properties needs for new miniaturization techniques, real
   problems such as nuclear waste cleanup, data needs for electrolyte
   systems and new generations of electric power plants, and data needs
   for unconventional materials such as molten metals and soft solids.
   Introduction This report is one of a number of documentations of the
   forum. Another paper expands on themes from the forum The future roles
   and priorities of experiment and simu- and offers ideas on the future
   opportunities and challenges lation, as well as theory and correlation,
   for thermophysical for fluid property research.2 A more detailed report
   will be properties research were the topics of Forum 2000, held
   released as a NIST Special Publication,3 and further on June 29, 2000,
   as part of the Fourteenth Symposium information is available at the
   forum website, http:// on Thermophysical Properties in Boulder,
   Colorado. All forum2000.boulder.nist.gov. participants in the symposium
   were invited to attend the forum, which was organized by the authors of
   the present Presentations of Panelists paper. Meetings with similar
   agendas1 have been held before, but the forum was unique in bringing
   together a The forum was moderated by Howard Hanley of NIST. panel of
   authorities from academic, government, and Each of the seven panelists
   presented a 10-min talk. There private research institutions and
   funding agencies. were discussion periods after the second and fourth
   talks; the last talk was followed by a summary from the modera- The
   advance abstract for the forum read as follows: tor and a final
   discussion period. "Advances in miniaturization, decentralization,
   demand- controlled production, flexible feedstocks, and information
   Professor Peter T. Cummings with the University of technology will
   catalyze dramatic changes in the fluid- Tennessee, Knoxville, and Oak
   Ridge National Laboratory, based industries in the 21st century. New
   technologies are first pointed out how his own career, in which he had
   emerging in areas such as waste minimization, advanced started as a
   theorist, was an example of the trend of the fuels, modular power
   plants, and high-value chemicals. displacement of theory by simulation.
   Cummings noted the Accelerated design, evaluation, and optimization of
   these remarkable progress in computational power, citing Moore's
   processes require virtual tools based on robust information. law that
   computing speeds double every 18 months, which Essential to these tools
   are physical property models, which is about an order of magnitude
   every 5 years. There is must be validated with accurate data.
   "tremendous leverage out of the consumer market for computers", driven
   by demands for computer games and "All stakeholders in technology
   development reap the word processing. He asserted that, by comparison,
   experi- benefits from accurate measurements and improved prop- ment and
   theory are much more labor-intensive. erty models. However, economic
   realities prevent single entities from committing substantial resources
   to such The term "molecular modeling" describes molecular research.
   This forum will identify strategic needs for dynamics where one solves
   equations of motion for a system collaborative efforts between
   experimentalists and develop- of molecules, Monte Carlo methods where
   the thermody- ers of database and process modeling tools with direct
   input namics is computed stochastically, and quantum chemistry from the
   end users to respond to their fluid property needs. where
   Schro¨dinger's equation is solved numerically. There The intent is to
   bring together competence from industry, are a variety of scales
   involved, from the lowest (electronic academia, and government research
   with representatives structure) level, through fluid thermodynamic
   properties, of the funding organizations to assist in the realization
   of through scales appropriate to polymer modeling. these collaborative
   efforts. These efforts will result in a The two key aspects of
   molecular modeling are force stronger connection between virtual design
   tools and fields and computational methods. Cummings noted that
   physical reality." far more funding has gone into force fields for
   pharmaceu- tical drug design than into force fields suitable for
   chemical processing. Drug design applications involve a small range *
   Corresponding author. E-mail: james.rainwater@nist.gov. Fax: (303)-
   497-5224. of temperatures, 25 to 35 °C, and low pressures. In
   10.1021/je010002e This article not subject to U.S. Copyright. Published
   2001 by the American Chemical Society Published on Web 07/11/2001
   Journal of Chemical and Engineering Data, Vol. 46, No. 5, 2001 1003
   contrast, chemical processing requires density ranges (for "pretty
   bad." In one instance, Hanford engineers needed example, between liquid
   and vapor) of orders of magnitude, an estimate of the cooling
   requirements for a tank. From pressure ranges of several decades, and
   temperature the amount of water used in cooling, the estimate was
   ranges of hundreds of kelvins. However, the state of the 100 000 Btu/h
   (29 kW), but the estimate from heat gener- art has improved to the
   extent that simulations are ated by waste samples was 30 000 to 40 000
   Btu/h (8.8 to predicting data subsequently confirmed by experiment and
   11.7 kW). It was necessary to assume the larger figure, but are
   locating errors in databases, and some properties such in the end the
   smaller figure was closer to the truth, as enthalpies of formation and
   reaction are now routinely possibly because the ventilation system may
   not have been obtained by some companies through computational chem-
   accounted for properly in the model. istry. A recent multiagency study
   (see http://www.itri.loy- In another instance, they needed a state
   permit for the ola.edu/molmodel/welcome.htm) discusses current appli-
   atmospheric emissions resulting from a transfer of radio- cations of
   molecular modeling. active waste from a single-shell to a double-shell
   tank. A Cummings concluded with a prediction that, by 2020, model
   provided an initial estimate of 20 parts per million many properties of
   pure low molecular weight systems will of organic carbon, and the site
   got a permit for 50 parts be predictable computationally with better
   accuracy and per million. However, in the first hour of the actual
   higher precision than from experiment. Certain problems transfer, 500
   parts per million was released. The problem will remain a challenge to
   simulation, for example when was subsequently corrected, but the
   original model had quantum effects are important or when there are
   dispari- failed to account for a radiolysis reaction that produced ties
   in time scales. His conclusion was that "I don't think volatile
   byproducts including heptene. These examples theory is gone by any
   stretch of the imagination, or showed that there are important
   real-life problems where experiment," but that molecular modeling has
   become a experts in fluids and chemistry can contribute. very powerful
   and important tool for thermophysical Dr. Andrzej Anderko, Vice
   President, Properties of Fluids properties prediction. and Materials at
   OLI Systems, Inc. (Morris Plains, NJ), Dr. Ward TeGrotenhuis, Chief
   Engineer, Environmental discussed research and development involving
   the proper- Technology Division of the Pacific Northwest National ties
   of electrolyte systems. This is an area in which the Laboratory
   (Richland, WA), spoke about research on min- current database is
   inadequate, particularly at high tem- iaturized devices and the
   associated physical property perature. More experimental work on
   thermophysical needs. A goal is to develop chemical process equipment
   properties will be necessary, because molecular simulation typically 2
   orders of magnitude smaller in size than cannot yet handle the complex
   interactions realistically. traditional equipment, without sacrificing
   capacity. Typical The particular technologies of interest were
   corrosion length scales are microchannel widths ranging from 1 µm
   simulation, crystallization simulation, flow assurance soft- to 1 mm,
   pumps and valves at the centimeter scale, reactors ware, and
   environmental simulation. and heat exchangers of 10 cm, and an entire
   system 1 m Anderko described corrosion as a complex process involv- in
   length. As a specific example, he cited a recently ing thermodynamic
   and transport properties, speciation, developed vaporizer for an
   automotive fuel processor that surface electrochemical processes, and
   the breakdown of could process 1400 standard liters of gasoline vapor
   per passive films on metals. Speciation is the most important; minute
   in a volume of only one-third of a liter. Other the pH of the fluid is
   the simplest characterization, but projects included one for NASA to
   develop a miniature the presence of other complexing agents must also
   be plant to produce propellants from carbon dioxide in the considered.
   As an example, anhydrous hydrogen fluoride Martian atmosphere and a
   project for the Department of is noncorrosive, but when mixed with
   water it becomes very Defense on a portable system for cooling a
   soldier in the corrosive. Anderko discussed other processes such as
   field. supercritical water oxidation and the production of in-
   TeGrotenhuis noted that property issues have not been organic
   materials, in particular piezoelectric ceramics. of much importance to
   date in the exploratory stages of There are many thermophysical
   property needs in these the devices but will become more important with
   actual areas. Transport properties are poorly known, and diffu- design
   and development. Conventional properties such as sivity and viscosity
   are needed to compute mass transfer density, thermal conductivity, and
   electrical conductivity effects in corrosion. Modeling phase
   equilibria, densities, will be useful. Additionally, at these small
   length scales, and enthalpies in multicomponent systems is important
   wall effects can dominate, so there is a greater need for in designing
   supercritical water oxidation processes. An such properties as surface
   tension, surface energy, and accurate equation of state is available
   for this purpose, but wettability. The flows may involve multiphase
   fluids, and parameters are established for only a few systems due to
   the dynamics will be at small time and length scales. New lack of
   experimental data. For ceramics, the main limita- models and
   instrumentation will be required to measure tion is lack of
   thermochemical data for the multiple solid properties in small channels
   and to characterize what is phases involved. Phenomena such as
   adsorption, ion happening. exchange, and surface complexation are also
   important. Dr. James A. Poppiti, Team Leader of In-Tank Charac- Dr.
   Thomas J. O'Brien of the Department of Energy, terization, Department
   of Energy, Office of River Protec- National Energy Technology
   Laboratory (Morgantown, tion, discussed an urgent practical problem,
   the cleanup WV), discussed a DOE program for electrical power gen- of
   radioactive waste at the Hanford, WA, site. He first eration from
   fossil fuels. The program, known as Vision reviewed the history of the
   site, back to its contribution to 21, sets the ambitious goal of
   increasing power plant the first nuclear weapon detonated at
   Alamogordo, NM. efficiencies to 75%, compared with 60% for current
   state- He also reviewed the geography of the site, which is 560
   of-the-art designs and 35% for typical coal-fired plants now mi2 (1450
   km2) in area and has a west and an east area in operation, while at the
   same time preserving the separated by 5 mi (8 km), across which large
   amounts of environment. Coal and natural gas will continue to be
   contaminated fluid must be transferred. important fuels, although
   opportunities to use biofuels will This project calls for models, but
   Poppiti said that, to be considered. Envisioned technologies include
   upstream date, his experience with models from contractors has been
   separation of oxygen from air, gasification of the initial 1004 Journal
   of Chemical and Engineering Data, Vol. 46, No. 5, 2001 materials into a
   higher-intensity fuel, a cascade of conver- point of an experimentalist
   and data provider. He also sion devices first with fuel cells at high
   temperature and spoke of conventional and unconventional properties.
   Within pressure and then with more fuel cells at lower tempera- the
   conventional, he said that the oil and gas industries, ture and
   pressure, and a turbine to burn the reject fuel. and combustion, will
   continue to be very important. In There will be serious control
   problems as different stages studying combustion, part of the problem
   is obtaining in the cascade are integrated. properties of reacting
   mixtures where some species are Related to the new plant technologies
   is a DOE project short-lived and cannot be studied in isolation. For
   oil and to model plants by computer. O'Brien noted that, in gas
   production, the process of thermal diffusion in near- previous years,
   the U.S. government provided billions of critical hydrocarbon mixtures
   could be an important factor dollars for demonstration plants but that
   support will not in determining the phase distribution in reservoirs.
   The continue indefinitely, so that simulation must at least so-called
   "mushy" region of metals in which solid and liquid partly replace
   expensive demonstration plants. The fossil- phases coexist in a
   nonequilibrium state is important, but fuel power industry, which has
   not had extensive experi- the ill-characterized nature of the state
   meant that much ence in scientific computing, will use as models other
   of the existing work was not useful. Other multiphase efforts, such as
   the simulation of nuclear explosions by the systems were also important
   to study, especially those DOE weapons program and the simulation of
   space explo- involving membranes and multiple fluid phases. ration by
   NASA. There will also be interactions with Wakeham noted that the
   health and food industries process simulation and computer graphics
   companies. He would always be important. There are property needs for
   ended by noting that science, previously based on analysis "soft
   solids", such as soap, food, powders and pastes, and and experiment, is
   now a "three-legged stool" based on cosmetics. He also mentioned tissue
   engineering, where analysis, experiment, and simulation. bone can be
   grown now, and scientists will be able to grow Dr. Paul M. Mathias,
   Principal Advisor with Aspen lung lobes within the next 5 years and
   liver tissue shortly Technology (Cambridge, MA), gave a process
   engineering thereafter. Because the processes involved are essentially
   perspective on thermophysical properties research and those involved in
   any chemical reactor, there is an op- reviewed how data are used in the
   simulation of industrial portunity for the thermophysical properties
   community to plants of various kinds. He described the stages of plant
   contribute to the description of such processes, although development,
   from conceptual design to operation. He they have done little so far.
   commended NIST (and the National Bureau of Standards, Wakeham showed
   widely varying predictions from sev- as it was called until 1988) for
   standardization of thermo- eral structure-based estimation techniques
   of the phase dynamic models for simple fluids. He emphasized the
   diagram of a hydrocarbon system, none of which was in importance of
   education and offered his opinion that close agreement with reality. He
   noted that the cor- companies do not understand their processes in
   great detail respondence of virtual reality to physical reality can
   only anymore and some previous core compentencies have be determined by
   experiment. But he asserted that we can drifted away. He felt that
   often when something important never conduct all necessary experiments.
   Even if there is missed, it is due to lack of education rather than
   lack of were only 15 pure components in the world, the experi-
   capability. On the other hand, the emergence of the mental effort
   required to study all possible mixtures would Internet will allow more
   institutions to participate in the be astronomical. For the tens of
   thousands of substances field of thermodynamic modeling. actually in
   use, the task is clearly impossible. In conclusion, Mathias spoke of
   "conventional" properties, where at Wakeham called for a balance
   between simulation, theory, least most of the concepts are in place,
   and unconventional and experiment. properties. For the former, he noted
   that transport property After Wakeham's talk, Hanley, as moderator,
   gave an research had been unduly neglected because of the greater
   impromptu summary. He commented that two important importance of phase
   equilibria. He felt that molecular gaps existed, first between
   simulation and experiment, and modeling of condensed phase properties
   was currently second between property information and process demands.
   weak and questioned whether some modeling was really He mentioned
   nanotechnology, surfactants, and colloids as just a sophisticated
   data-fitting exercise. The role of areas that perhaps should be
   considered within the realm molecular modeling, in his view, was to
   understand trends of thermophysical properties to a greater extent than
   they and build hybrid models. He also regarded as important currently
   are. He also stated the importance of multidis- the kinetics of
   solid-liquid equilibrium and, echoing ciplinary studies and of contact
   with industrial experts, Anderko, speciation in electrolyte systems. He
   saw an mentioning an example from his own research where a opportunity
   for sensors that would relate the variable that phone call to the right
   person at a clay products company one really wanted to control in a
   process (such as molecular clarified questions that had concerned him
   for 3 years. weight in a polymerization reaction) to a property that
   could be more easily measured on-line. Discussion Unconventional
   properties, for example those of poly- The discussion periods covered a
   variety of topics. More mers, are often history-dependent, and even the
   conceptual details will be given in the Special Publication;3 here we
   frameworks are not yet established. Mathias noted that it summarize the
   main themes. Most of the discussion can is difficult to set up a
   reasonable simulation when proper- be categorized in terms of four
   challenges facing the ties are history-dependent. He concluded that
   much work thermophysical properties community. The first came from is
   needed in this area, including databases for history- simulation and
   the question of whether simulations could dependent processes. supplant
   experiment for obtaining accurate property data. Professor William A.
   Wakeham, Pro Rector (Research) Second were structural issues, including
   funding avail- of the Imperial College of Science, Technology, and
   Medi- ability. Third was the challenge to help solve "real-life" cine
   (London), whose plenary lecture for the 14th Sympo- problems, and
   fourth was the need to move toward new sium on Thermophysical
   Properties on the history and materials and new properties. future
   prospects of the profession had generated consider- Simulations. An
   audience member noted that advances able discussion throughout the
   week, presented the view- in algorithms were a greater factor in
   improvement of the Journal of Chemical and Engineering Data, Vol. 46,
   No. 5, 2001 1005 speed of simulations than improvements in computing
   Poppiti seconded this on the basis of his experience with a speed
   itself, and while Moore's law predicted increases in problem
   universally regarded as urgent, where he had speed of 2 orders of
   magnitude per decade, the improve- extensive funding at his disposal
   but had difficulty finding ment of algorithms made the overall
   simulation speed go how and where to spend it to get the needed
   answers. up by 4 or 5 orders of magnitude, an observation with
   Real-Life Problems. The challenges provided by for- which Cummings
   agreed. midable "real-life" problems were addressed. Poppiti com- It
   was asked what error bars could be put on simulated mented that his
   stories of modeling failures were just two property data. Cummings
   commented that real validation that he picked out, and he could tell
   many more. Modeling comes from experiments that are performed after the
   deficiencies have already had a significant negative impact,
   simulations and agree with them. He agreed that simula- including the
   temporary shutdown of a major activity. tion data are ultimately useful
   to an engineer only if they Hanley said that "academic people", loosely
   defined, who come with error bars, that the largest uncertainties come
   from the force fields but are hard to quantify, and that the wanted to
   contribute should visit sites and see firsthand simulation community
   has not done very much in this area. large tanks rotting away and other
   evidence of the prob- Another audience member pointed out that, like
   experi- lems. He also commented that these problems are gigantic ments,
   simulations could be subject to systematic errors and complex and might
   make a good subject for a proposal, and that there were published
   examples where this had but people in the room hardly know what
   questions to ask happened. and are not informed of what data are
   needed. On such problems, it was suggested that there is probably some
   The measurement of properties of alternative refriger- basic research
   that would help, but somebody has to ants was brought up as an example.
   These fluids had been provide a bridge between the basic science and
   engineering largely ignored until about 15 years ago, but when ozone
   needs, and it was unclear who would be in a position to do depletion
   became a major concern, their properties were that. measured
   extensively worldwide. The question was posed whether, in a similar
   situation, the simulation community New Materials and Technologies. The
   talks by Te- today would say experiments were unnecessary and all
   Grotenhuis and Wakeham brought up challenges and data could be
   simulated. Cummings replied that simulated opportunities in new areas
   such as microtechnology and properties are useful in the early design
   stages of a plant, soft solids. It was clarified that usual bulk
   properties are but at the final design and production stages, almost
   still useful in microtechnology, the construction of devices everyone
   agrees that real experimental data are necessary. about 2 orders of
   magnitude less in size than conventional Structural Issues. Discussion
   of structural issues devices, as opposed to nanotechnology that
   involves much echoed the remark of Mathias that lack of education and
   smaller size scales at the molecular level. Hanley asked expertise was
   more often an impediment than lack of TeGrotenhuis if his miniaturized
   devices used ordinary capability. The near disappearance of corporate
   engineer- bulk property information or if new information was ing
   groups was lamented. Pressures to cut costs and the needed, while
   pointing out that at some scale use of bulk availability of software
   and specialized services from properties would break down. TeGrotenhuis
   replied that, vendors have largely changed the role of engineers in so
   far, traditional properties from standard chemical refer- industry from
   specialists to generalists. Engineering spe- ence sources worked, but
   at some point with further cialists, often with Ph.D.s, provided
   essential expertise to miniaturization there would be nonidealities
   associated their companies and a link to academic and government with
   scale. researchers. Process simulation software has replaced them
   TeGrotenhuis was asked what fluid-surface interaction in part, but key
   decisions are now made by people with studies would be useful to him
   and what specific surface limited thermodynamics education. Companies
   rely on material was of interest. He replied that his group mostly
   consultants but may not be able to judge their competence worked with
   metals, because of high-temperature applica- properly. Product design
   knowledge, the ability of a person tion, but that others in the
   microtechnology world used in industry to know what data are needed for
   a given glass, silicon, or plastic. Wakeham reiterated his recom-
   product, is something of a lost art, and it is even unclear if
   mendation for studies of thermal properties of tissues, and it is being
   taught anymore. there was some discussion as to whether this area was
   Wakeham's comment about the huge data needs for only appropriate for
   traditional thermophysical properties labo- 15 pure components prompted
   some discussion. O'Brien ratories. noted that it would also be a huge
   job to do all the needed simulations for the mixtures. It was noted
   that theory had Conclusions been rather underemphasized in the
   discussion, and esti- mating properties of all the mixtures called for
   some good Overall, the forum raised many questions, but there was
   mixture theorists, but that funding agencies are not doing some
   consensus. While there were differences of opinion a particularly good
   job of encouraging theory. on the capabilities of simulation, it was
   clear that it has Although not envisioned as a primary concern of the
   not rendered experiment obsolete and that experiments will forum,
   issues of research funding inevitably arose. The way need to be
   continued for, among other reasons, the valida- in which "turf battles"
   inhibit cross-agency funding was tion of simulation predictions. Still,
   simulation is now an mentioned, as was the way agencies such as DOE
   were important player in the determination of thermophysical stretched
   thin between basic and applied research and user properties and will
   become more so with improvements in facilities, with political
   pressures as an added complication. computer speed and algorithms.
   Clearly there are op- Frustrations were expressed that funding agencies
   some- portunities in new materials and properties, microtechnol- times
   fail to inform researchers of what they really want, ogy, soft solids,
   and elsewhere. The profession can contrib- saying they want to support
   science but instead focusing ute to complex problems such as nuclear
   waste cleanup, on short-term fixes. It was mentioned that the problems
   but important liaisons between properties experts and in areas such as
   environmental cleanup were so complex those tasked with solving
   practical problems, such as that even identifying the basic science
   needs was difficult. corporate engineering groups, have been
   disappearing. 1006 Journal of Chemical and Engineering Data, Vol. 46,
   No. 5, 2001 NIST hopes to continue its leadership in fostering (3)
   Rainwater, J. C.; Friend, D. G.; Hanley, H. J. M.; Harvey, A. H.;
   dialogue on the future of thermophysical properties re- Holcomb, C. D.;
   Laesecke, A.; Magee, J. W.; Muzny, C. Report on search and is
   considering organizing more such events. Forum 2000: Fluid Properties
   for New Technologies, Connecting Virtual Design with Physical Reality;
   Special Publication; Na- tional Institute of Standards and Technology:
   Boulder, CO, in Literature Cited review. (1) Assael, M. J. Minutes of
   Workshop W1: Major challenges for fluid transport property research in
   the next century. High Temp.- Received for review January 2, 2001.
   Accepted May 14, 2001. High Pressures 2000, 32, 159-162. (2) Harvey, A.
   H.; Laesecke, A. Fluid Properties and New Technolo- gies: Connecting
   Design with Reality. Chem. Eng. Prog., in press. JE010002E
