http://cap.gov/html/cap.gov.html



   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]

   Civil Air Patrol


   Home About CAP Joining CAP Headquarters
   [clearpixel.gif]
                    Update on America's Response to Attack...
   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]

   CAP.GOV DOMAIN ADMINISTRATION
   Obtaining A Domain Name Associated With CAP.GOV Domain
   There is now in place an easy system for CAP units to request a domain
   name (or related services) associated with the CAP.GOV domain.    To
   make such a request,  first read the CAP adopted a 2-page regulation
   applicable to all CAP Internet operations; you can read those
   regulations here.   You can request CAP.GOV domain name services by:
   1)  sending a request by letter or facsimile, on your unit's
   letterhead, to:

   CAP.GOV Administrator, POB 1, Birmingham, MI 48012 or to facsimile
   248-542-0272.  In your letter, provide the following:

   a) name of wing or higher commander (or their designee) that has
   authorized your unit to use the requested CAP.GOV domain.  b) the
   proposed domain name, which should include your wing designator, i.e.
   yoursqdn.nywg.cap.gov   c)  provide the "A" record IP address and "MX"
   and "CNAME"  record data that should be associated with your proposed
   domain name  (your internet service provider or organization that will
   be hosting your website will provide you this information), d) The
   letter should indicate your name, rank, telephone numbers and CAPID
   number.

   2)  Or, if your browser supports transmitting form information over the
   Internet, you can submit the foregoing information online
   here.

   If  you are having problems or have questions regarding the CAP.GOV
   domain name server system, please contact the
   CAP.GOV Administrator. Notice of any CAP.GOV  DNS problems should also
   be sent by facsimile to CAP.GOV Administrator at: 248-542-0272. If you
   are having problems or have questions regarding the CAPNHQ.GOV system,
   you should contact the CAPNHQ.GOV Administrator.

   [clearpixel.gif]
                    Civil Air Patrol USAF Auxiliary Seal
