http://www.fnal.gov/cd/reviews/runII/review_charge.txt

   Charge to Review Committee on CDF/D0 Computing Upgrade Project The
   Committee is asked to review the status of the joint effort by CDF, D0,
   and the Computing Division to upgrade CDF/D0 computing for Run II. We
   are interested in an evaluation of both cost and schedule
   considerations. We do not expect there to be sufficient information at
   the first review (June) to evaluate all aspects. The focus in June
   should be on the "Data Management Needs Assessment" and the projected
   budget for equipment and media expenditures. However, some part (about
   a third) of the review in June should be devoted to a preliminary
   review of the schedule, plans for the availability of personnel
   resources, as well as plans for project management. This should include
   attention to software to be developed by CDF/D0, and by Computing
   Division, personnel. This is both software and tools intended for joint
   use and that aimed at the indvidual needs of the experiments. We expect
   these matters, and more specifics on the technical choices being made
   for data handling, will be the principle focus of a subsequent review
   in late summer or early fall. We also anticipate that after a year we
   would want to have a third review to evaluate progress. The following
   questions are suggestive of what we are interested in learning from
   this series of reviews: Costs and data management technology: Given
   restricted budgets, are the proposed expenditures estimated on a sound
   basis of actual requirements for the approved running program for these
   detectors? Are the requirements well enough undestood? Is the present
   level of definition and specification appropriate, allowing some
   agility to respond to technological developments in the market place
   before the equipment/software must actually be purchased? Are the
   technical choices sensible? Have all options been investigated? Are the
   projections of future options and prices reasonable? Where there are
   differences in the choices made for the two detectors, is this
   appropriate? (i.e. do any independent choices incur significant
   unjustified costs including personnel effort?) Non-commercial software,
   schedule, and personnel resources: Is the schedule, both for purchases
   and for CDF/D0/Computing Division integration and software development
   effort, appropriately matched to a reasonable understanding of the Run
   II startup and running schedule? Are plans and budgets for consultant
   or contract help reasonable? Is the transition to new operating
   systems, paradigms (C++), adequately understood and planned? In
   particular, how is the traditional approach, where detector builders
   move on to software as actual data taking nears, going to be handled in
   the new environment (i.e., learning curve, training, class libraries,
   hand holding, etc.)? Is there appropriate sharing of software and tools
   between the two detectors? Is the Computing Division role well
   understood? Are they prepared for it? Management: Is the plan for
   management of the joint and separate efforts (project) reasonable? Is
   it formal enough? Too formal? Again, are the places where the two
   detectors have plans, projected effort, and management in common, the
   right ones (too much in common? too little?)? The first review is
   scheduled for June 12 and 13. June 12 will be devoted to presentations
   by members of the effort. The morning of June 13 will be devoted to a)
   responses to any overnight questions asked by the committee; b)
   executive session of the committee; c) a "close out" meeting with the
   Directorate, the Computing Divsion management, and the collaboration
   management (including at least one spokesperson and project manager
   from each collaboration and the lead presenters). (The exact schedule
   for the close out meeting on Friday June 13 will need to be coordinated
   with departure schedules of Directorate and other people leaving for
   the Aspen PAC.) The chairman of the committee and probably one other
   member will be invited to discuss the committee's preliminary findings
   at the Aspen PAC meeting on Monday morning, June 15. We ask the
   committee to provide a brief written interim report by the end of June.
   The committee members: Wolfgang von Ruden GSI (Chair) Terry Schalk UCSC
   Bob Jacobsen LBNL Michael Ernst DESY Brian Yanny EAG, Fermilab Vivian
   O'Dell KTev, Fermilab
