http://www.occ.treas.gov/customer.htm

       Skip to quick links of this area Skip to main content OCC Logo
        Comptroller of the Currency, Administrator of National Banks

             HOME | CONTACT THE OCC | DIRECTORY | SUBJECT INDEX | SITE MAP
   Customer Assistance

   Search this Site: __________ go
   Search Tips
   What's New
   About the OCC
   Banker Education
   Careers at the OCC
   Community Affairs
   Corporate Applications
   CRA Information
   Customer Assistance

     Customer Assistance
          Brochure

     Report of the Customer
          Assistance Group Skip to main content
   Electronic Banking
   FOIA
   Issuances
   Publications
   Public Information
   Regulatory Information
   Related Sites
   Treasury Homepage
   National BankNet for Chartered National Banks
   FirstGov

   End of Left Navigation links group

   The following links can be used to navigate within the contents of this
                                    page:

                                         OCC

                                  FRB

                                  HUD

     NCUA

                                  OTS

                                  FTC

                                  FDIC

   Who is the OCC?

   The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) is an agency of the
   United States Department of the Treasury. The OCC charters, regulates,
   and supervises over 2,500 national banks to ensure a safe, sound and
   competitive national banking system that supports the citizens,
   communities and economy of the United States.  The Comptroller's Office
   also supervises federally licensed branches and agencies of foreign
   banks. The national banks fund the agency through assessments paid by
   the banks based on their assets and fees they pay for special services.

   What Is a National Bank?

   A national bank is a financial institution chartered by the Office of
   the Comptroller of the Currency. National banks can usually be
   identified because they have the words "national" or "national
   association" in their titles or the letters N.A. or NT&SA following
   their titles. National banks represent about 28 percent of all insured
   commercial banks in the United States, holding 57 percent of the total
   assets of the banking system.

   If You Have a Problem With a National Bank

   It is best to try to resolve a complaint directly with your bank before
   involving an outside agency. If you are unable to do so or are
   uncertain about whether your complaint falls under our jurisdiction,
   the OCC Customer Assistance Group can help you.
   General inquiries about banking laws or practices often can be answered
   on the phone by a customer assistance specialist. The specialist may
   also be able to suggest other ways for you to try to resolve your
   problem directly with the bank.
   When resolution seems impossible, you may file a formal complaint with
   the OCC.

   The OCC Customer Assistance Group

   The OCC Customer Assistance Group was created to answer questions,
   offer guidance, and assist consumers in resolving complaints about
   national banks.

   Contacting a Customer Assistance Specialist

   You can reach one of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency's
   customer assistance specialists by:

     Telephoning 1-800-613-6743, toll-free (Monday-Thursday 9:00a.m. to
   4:00p.m.CST)

     E-mailing - E-mail to Customer.Assistance@occ.treas.gov;

     Fax - Faxing to - 1-713-336-4301 or;

     Sending mail to -

     Customer Assistance Group
     1301 McKinney Street
     Suite 3710
     Houston, TX 77010

   Filing a Formal Complaint

   You may file a formal complaint about a national bank with the OCC by
   writing and sending (or faxing) a letter -- no special forms are
   required -- to the Customer Assistance Group at the above address.

   Your fax or letter should identify the national bank about which you
   have the complaint by providing the bank's full name and address.
   Explain the nature of your problem and tell us what resolution you are
   seeking. Do not forget to give us YOUR name, address, and a telephone
   number where you can be reached during the day, as well.

   When You Contact the OCC

   When we receive your call about a complaint, a customer assistance
   specialist will request certain information from you about your
   complaint. He or she will evaluate your information and attempt to
   resolve your problem while on the phone. Should the specialist not be
   able to resolve your complaint immediately, he or she may request that
   you send additional information to assist in their research. The
   specialist will assign you a case number and tell you exactly what they
   require you to provide, so that your case research can continue.

   When we receive your written complaint or additional documentation that
   was requested by one of our customer assistance specialists, we will
   send you an acknowledgment and assign your case to a customer
   assistance specialist. They will research your complaint and contact
   the bank for an explanation of what happened. The specialist may
   request that you provide additional documentation and will identify
   exactly what it is that they might require. The OCC will notify you
   after the bank responds. Complaints caused by bank error or
   misunderstanding are often resolved voluntarily by the bank.

   When You Need Other Help

   Many complaints stem from factual or contract disputes between the bank
   and the customer. Only a court of law can resolve those disputes and
   award damages. If we find that your case involves such a dispute, we
   will suggest that you consult an attorney for assistance.

   The OCC regulates only NATIONAL BANKS, not all types of financial
   institutions. If your complaint involves a bank or other institution
   not regulated by the OCC, we may refer it to another agency. We will
   notify you if we do so. You should not have to resubmit your complaint
   or accompanying documentation. However, you may be contacted if the
   other agency needs additional information.

   Consumer Help Is Available From These Agencies:

                  Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
                         (Regulates national banks)
                          Customer Assistance Group
                            1301 McKinney Street
                                 Suite 3710
                              Houston, TX 77010
                               1-800-613-6743
                  E-mail: Customer.Assistance@occ.treas.gov
                     Internet: http://www.occ.treas.gov
                                ------------
                      The Office of Thrift Supervision
     (Regulates federal savings and loans (S&Ls) and federally chartered
                          savings banks (F.S.B.s))
                         Office of Consumer Programs
                              1700 G Street, NW
                            Washington, DC 20552
                               (202) 906-6237
                               1-800-842-6929
                  E-mail: consumer.complaint@ots.treas.gov
                     Internet: http://www.ots.treas.gov
                                ------------
                          The Federal Reserve Board
   (Regulates state banks that are members of the Federal Reserve System)
                 Division of Consumer and Community Affairs
                            Federal Reserve Board
                            Washington, DC 20551
                               (202) 452-3946
                   Internet: http://www.federalreserve.gov
                                ------------
                  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
    (Regulates Federally insured state banks that are not members of the
                           Federal Reserve System)
                 Division of Compliance and Consumer Affairs
                             550 17th Street, NW
                            Washington, DC 20429
                               (202) 942-3100
                               1-800-934-FDIC
                          Email: consumer@fdic.gov
                        Internet: http://www.fdic.gov
                                ------------
                  The National Credit Union Administration
                      (Regulates federal credit unions)
                              1775 Duke Street
                          Alexandria, VA 22314-3428
                               (703) 518-6300
                        Internet: http://www.ncua.gov
                                ------------
                          Federal Trade Commission
                          (Regulates other lenders)
                          Consumer Response Center
                      6th and Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.
                            Washington, DC 20580
                               (202) 326-2222
                         Email: consumerline@ftc.gov
                        Internet: http://www.ftc.gov
                                ------------
              Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)
                         (Enforces Fair Housing Act)
                Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity
                     451 Seventh Street, S.W., Room 5100
                            Washington, DC 20410
                               (202) 708-4252
                               1-800-669-9777
                        Internet: http://www.hud.gov

   This page may contain PDF documents
   Download Adobe Acrobat Reader 5.0
   Please read the Comptroller of the Currency's Privacy Policy.

   You are entering an official United States government system, which may
   be used only for authorized purposes. Unauthorized modification of any
   information stored on this system may result in criminal prosecution.
