http://agoa.gov/Opportunities/opportunities.html


   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]
   [doctrans.gif]
   Home
   AGOA Update
   About AGOA
   Eligibility
   Opportunities
   Resources
   FAQ
   [contactus.jpg]
   [clearpixel.gif]
                    African Growth and Opportunity Act
   [clearpixel.gif]


   Trade Leads and Matchmaking Services Available on the Internet

   Trade Leads:

   The following websites are just a few of the resources African
   businesses can use to either search or post information on the products
   or services they wish to sell.  Unless otherwise noted, the services
   provided by these websites are free.

   African Trade Leads - www.mbendi.co.za

   American Shine Star Corp. - www.shinestar.com

   BidMix.com - www.bidmix.com

   BigEx.com - www.bigex.com

   BuySellEx.com - www.buysellex.com

   Buyers Guide - www.buyersguide.com

   Come to Trade - www.cometotrade.com

   Export Chamber - www.exportchamber.com

   Export All - www.exportall.com

   Export Leads - www.export-leads.com/expleads.html   -  A subscription
   to trade leads service costs $135 per year outside of the US, $95 per
   year within the US

   Federation of International Trade Associations - www.fita.org  -  A
   guide to US trade associations, also has a trade lead section

   Food Trader Exchange - www.tfte.com  -  Trade leads specific to the
   food industry

   Foreign Trade Online - www.foreign-trade.com

   Import-Export Bulletin Board - www.iebb.com  -  This website provides a
   broad range of information on various trade services.  Companies
   wanting to post trade leads are connected to the Trade Comapss website
   to connect with other buyers and sellers. (See listing for Trade
   Compass below)

   Import Leads/Export Leads - www.importleads.com

   Intermeding - www.intermeding.com

   International Business Forum - www.ibf.com

   List Boards - www.listboards.com

   Meetbuyer.com - www.meetbuyer.com

   Mpost.com - www.mpost.com

   Online Trade Leads - www.onlineleads.com

   Owens Online - www.owens.com

   Panagaea - www.panagaea.net  -  For a subscription fee of $25 for 3
   months, members can post trade leads on Panagaeas website.

   Selectory - www.selectoryonline.com   -  A number of searchable
   databases are available on this website, organized by industry and/or
   state.  Subscription costs $20 per month, or subscribers can buy access
   to one of the specialized databases for a yearly fee.

   SignOnAfrica.com - www.signonafrica.com - Offers access to a wide
   variety of African products.

   Swiss Info Import-Export Bulletin Board - www.swissinfo.net   -
   Subscription for $50 per quarter, annual subscription for $149.
   Members can post leads and access a broad range of offers compiled from
   various different trade lead sources.

   Trade Compass - www.tradecompass.com   -  Offers a variety of
   subscription memberships, including a free service that allows members
   to view and post trade leads.

   The Trading Floor - www.tradingfloor.com  -  A monthly subscription fee
   of $49 gives members access to trade leads, international business
   information, the National Trade Data Bank, and a variety of other
   trade-related resources.

   Trade Port - www.tradeport.org   -  Trade leads focused on the state of
   California

   Trade Submit - www.trade-submit.com

   Trade Weekly - www.tradeweekly.com

   TradeLeads.com - www.tradeleads.com    -  Similar to The Trading Floor,
   a $49 monthly fee gives members access to trade leads as well as
   Stat-USA

   Trade Match - www.tradematch.com

   Trade World - www.tradeworld.net   -  An Africa-specific source of
   trade leads, government tenders, and trade information that aims to
   connect African businesses with buyers and suppliers in other countries
   via the Internet.

   Trade Winds - www.tradewinds.com   -  A subscription fee of $363 per
   year gives members access to trade leads and the ability to post
   information on the websites Trade Bulletin Board.

   Trade Zone - www.tradezone.com

   United Nations Trade Promotion Development Center - www.untpdc.org   -
   This website offers access to a variety of buyer and seller lists
   through its Electronic Trading Opportunity (ETO) section.

   Wade World Trade Cyber Center - www.cybertradecenter.com   -  Available
   for a subscription fee of $142 per year

   World Access Net Directory - www.wand.com   -  Offers trade leads and
   trade information in 16 languages.

   World Trade Markets - www.wtm.com  - Updates the United Nations
   Conference on Trade and Developments Trade Point Trade Leads daily

   WorldBid.com - www.worldbid.com

   Worldwide Business Club - www.wbc.com   - Visitors to this site can
   browse trade leads for free, there is a minimal charge to post a trade
   lead.

   Matchmaker Programs

   Corporate Council on Africa - www.africacncl.org   - The Corporate
   Council on Africa organizes two business linkage programs, the South
   Africa Business Linkage program and the West Africa Business Linkage
   program.  These programs help match African and American companies in a
   variety of industry sectors.  For more information, see the CCA website
   and click on International Business Linkages.

   U.S. Global Technology Network - www.usgtn.org  - This website provides
   free trade leads and provides matchmaking services that connect foreign
   and U.S. businesses according to industry sector and region.

   Uniworld Business Publications - www.uniworldbp.org   - Publishes
   directories of U.S. firms operating in foreign countries and
   directories of foreign firms operating in the U.S.

   World Trade Center Network - www.wtca.org   - Use this website to
   locate World Trade Center facilities worldwide in order to find the
   center closest to you.  World Trade Centers can provide matchmaking
   services and lists of trade leads.  A subscription to access trade
   leads services via the website is free to WTC members, others can
   register as a guest to view trade opportunities and pay $19.95 per
   month to post leads through the WTC network

   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]

                    Privacy Statement

                    External Website Disclaimer

   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]

                    ________________
                    (*) Site search (*) Web search Find!
                    Site Map
