http://www.delphi.jccbi.gov/homebody.html

   NOTICE:
   All System, Interface and Conversion documents have been moved!

   Go to the secure Delphi website at:
    http:\\sdelphi.jccbi.gov


   Click here to read the DOT Privacy Statement regarding "cookies"

   for information regarding Accessibility Assistance please go to:
   http://www.faa.gov/aio/508



         PDF Format            HTML Format
    OA Weekly Processes    OA Weekly Processes
   OA Month-End Processes

                          OA Month-End Processes



~~Delphi 11i Upgrade Status of 7/02/01
                in PDF~~

                                                      ~~Delphi 11i Upgrade Status of 7/02/01
                                                                     in HTML~~

                       Lessons Learned Document in PDF

       Lessons Learned Document in Power Point format for Downloading


   Click here to get the DAFIS Data Cleanup Document
   Clip0002.gif (2893 bytes)

   In the Spring of 1997, the Office of Financial Management (OFM) and the
   Mike Monroney Aeronautical Center (MMAC) conducted a study to
   determine  whether DOT could evolve the Departmental Accounting and
   Financial Information System (DAFIS) to one that would meet the current
   and future needs of the Department.  An evaluation team was formed with
   representatives from the U.S. Coast Guard, Federal Aviation
   Administration, Federal Highway Administration, the OFM and MMAC to
   develop a DOT Functional Evaluation Criteria document to assess
   commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) systems.  A transition team was also
   formed with representatives from OFM and MMAC to work with the
   evaluation team to develop  a formal evaluation process.

   The study concluded with an operational capabilities demonstrated (OCD)
   of the U.S. Coast Guard's system (Oracle Federal Financials) in
   December 1997.  The OCD was conducted by presenting demonstrations of
   25 "super scenarios" which assimilated the Department's most complex
   business processes as defined by the Operating Administrations (OAs),
   and incorporated the DOT Functional Evaluation Criteria.   Financial
   Management Committee members completed formal evaluations of the
   expected results.  Given the high percentage of expected results
   successfully demonstrated by the Coast Guard system, the Deputy Chief
   Financial Officer endorsed its evolutionary use throughout the DOT.
   This program is called DELPHI.



                                     bar

           DELPHI Documents may be downloaded using Adobe Acrobat.
