http://denver.fbi.gov/contact/fo/denver/organize.htm

                             FBI DENVER DIVISION

                                  FBI Seal

                       ORGANIZED CRIME - DRUGS - HIDTA

   Organized Crime

   The Organized Crime Program of the Denver Division investigates the
   activities of Organized Crime in two broad programs: 1) Russian and
   Eastern European Criminal Enterprises, and 2) Asian Criminal
   Enterprises, including activities of Asian gangs. The Special Agents
   who work in these programs concentrate their efforts in Colorado
   Springs, Denver, and Fort Collins. These Agents use a wide range of
   investigative techniques, but emphasize the use of informants and the
   gathering of evidence through court authorized electronic surveillance.
   In addition, undercover operations can become a useful tool against a
   range of Organized Criminal Enterprises.

   Drugs

   The proliferation of drugs is addressed by the Denver Division through
   working in joint task forces, using the close working relationships
   with the Denver Police Department, Colorado Springs Police Department,
   U.S. Customs Service, Immigration and Naturalization Service, Aurora
   Police Department, and the Drug Enforcement Administration. The Special
   Agents who work in the fight against the proliferation of drugs utilize
   the same sophisticated investigative techniques as utilized in the
   Organized Crime Program.

   HIDTA Seal RMHIDTA - Rocky Mountain High Intensity Drug Trafficking
   Area

   RMHIDTA is a Federally funded program overseen by the Office of
   National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP).

   The RMHIDTA covers the three-state region of Colorado, Utah, and
   Wyoming.

   The RMHIDTA currently supports 47 operational Task Forces: 19 in
   Colorado, 18 in Utah, and 10 in Wyoming. It also supports training and
   the Investigative Support Center.

                        The RMHIDTA Mission Statement

   The mission statement is to reduce the availability of illicit drugs
   and drug related violence within the region; defeat the illegal efforts
   to move drug activity and drug related violence to this region to avoid
   increased law enforcement efforts in other areas; reduce the amount of
   drugs moved through this region to other portions of the country;
   encourage and support serious drug demand reduction and violence
   prevention programs.

                        Front Range Task Force (FRTF)

   The mission of the Front Range Task Force (FRTF) is to promote a
   collaborated multi-agency effort to identify, investigate, and
   dismantle major drug trafficking organizations operating in the Denver
   metropolitan/Front Range area, with an emphasis on methamphetamines and
   Southwest border trafficking. Also, to address emerging criminal
   justice issues as they relate to narcotics trafficking throughout the
   Front Range region, encouraging maximum cooperation between all law
   enforcement and prosecutorial agencies, and insuring the safety of both
   police personnel and the public, accomplished in an efficient manner
   within constitutional guidelines.

   The FRTF was also established to identify and ultimately convict medium
   to high-level drug traffickers, and to seize assets and proceeds
   derived from drug trafficking, by using the effective methods of a task
   force approach.

    [Colorado Resident Agencies] [Wyoming Resident Agencies] [Employment
    with the Denver Division] [Community Outreach Program] [White-Collar
      Crimes] [NFIP International/Domestic Terrorism] [Violent Crimes]
       [Denver Division Home Page] [Victim Witness Assistance Program]

                [FBI's Most Wanted - Denver] [FBI Home Page]
