http://www.nsf.gov/home/help/start.htm

   Bypass Top Navigation NSF Home Page
   About NSF
   Funding
   Publications
   News & Media
   Search Site Map

                                  Site Map

   Help

   Our New Look

   For more information on the new NSF web site, please visit the What's
   New on NSF Web page.
   Tips on Using the NSF Web Site
   NAVIGATION

   Many pages on the NSF site contain a standard menubar at the top for
   easy navigation. Use the NSF logo on the left side of the menubar to
   return to the NSF home page. The Site Map symbol on the right side of
   the menubar will take you to an extensive list from which you may
   select direct links to many NSF offices and services. The headings
   between the NSF logo and the Site Map symbol allow users with version
   4.0 browsers or later to navigate through a series of drop down menus
   to select the exact page on the site that meets your needs. The dynamic
   menus can be toggled on or off by clicking on Customize at the bottom
   right of many of the pages on the NSF site. All users can click on a
   heading to go to a comprehensive menu page, which lists all of the
   topics available for that heading. The headings listed in the menubar
   also appear in the toolbar at the bottom of the page to provide users
   quick access to the most requested information on the site.
   TOOLS

   Search
   Search boxes appear on many top level pages. The heading above the
   search box indicates the scope of the search that will be conducted.
   Some search boxes will search only certain pages of the NSF site. For
   example, the search box on the biology overview page will only search
   biology pages for the terms submitted. To search the entire NSF web
   site, use the search box on the home page or go to the search page by
   clicking on the search option in the menubar at the top or toolbar at
   the bottom of most pages.

   Online Document System
   NSF's Online Document System includes all NSF documents (numbered
   publications) available in electronic formats (such as HTML, ASCII, and
   PDF). Documents can be searched for by document type, document number,
   text search, or date.

   Custom News Service
   NSF offers subscriptions to our publications and other documents
   through the Custom News Service. The Custom News Service is an email-
   and web-based alert service which notifies anyone with an interest in
   NSF news and documents when new publications are released. It is a
   “custom” service that lets you select the types of publications you
   want to know about. The Custom News Service alerts you to new documents
   on the NSF web site and provides a link to each document's location.

   Betsie
   Users who prefer a text-only version of the NSF web site can generate
   one automatically using Betsie, the BBC Education Text to Speech
   Internet Enhancer. Betsie linearizes tables, translates ALT values, and
   removes JavaScript from web pages. In addition, NSF has customized
   Betsie to turn links to PDF files into links that translate the PDF
   files into HTML files using the Adobe Document Server. You can access
   the Betsie-generated version of our site at
   http://www.nsf.gov/cgi-bin/access/parser.pl/www.nsf.gov or through a
   link at the top of the NSF home page available to screen reading
   devices.

   Feedback
   Many pages on the NSF web site provide a link in the bottom right
   corner of the page for contacting NSF. To provide feedback to the Web
   Development Team contact the NSF Webmaster.
   FILE FORMATS

   The NSF web site offers files in a variety of formats. These may
   include PDF, Word, Excel, MPEG and others. NSF provides links to
   plug-ins and viewers for all of the file formats available on our site.

   PDF Files
   PDF Icon Some documents on the NSF web site are in Portable Document
   Format (PDF). These cross-platform documents allow users to view
   publications as they were originally formatted regardless of the
   platform, software, or configurations they are using to access the
   Internet. PDF files must be viewed using the Acrobat Reader, which can
   be downloaded free from Adobe. For best results, make sure you are
   using Acrobat Reader version 3.0 or later.

   ADS Icon To make PDF files accessible to users with visual
   disabilities, NSF is using the Adobe Document Server (ADS) to translate
   some PDF files into HTML pages that will be accessible to screen
   readers. PDF files that can be translated through NSF's ADS are
   identified by the symbol to the right of this paragraph. The
   ADS-generated HTML pages are provided specifically for screen reader
   use without concern for their visual appearance. If you encounter a PDF
   file on the NSF web site that does not have the ADS symbol, you can use
   the Betsie gateway at
   http://www.nsf.gov/cgi-bin/access/parser.pl/www.nsf.gov to access the
   file through the text-only version of the NSF web site, which
   automatically uses ADS to translate PDF files into HTML.
   Frequently Asked Questions
   HOW DO I FIND...ON THE NSF WEB SITE?
   For Further Information
   CONTACTING NSF

   nsf.gov
   | About NSF | Funding | Publications | News & Media | Search | Site Map
   | Help
   NSF Celebrating 50 Years The National Science Foundation
   4201 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, Virginia 22230, USA
   Tel: 703-292-5111, FIRS: 800-877-8339 | TDD: 703-292-5090 Contact NSF
   Customize
