http://housedemocrats.house.gov/documents/electionreformreport.pdf

   Democratic Caucus Special Committee on Election Reform Maxine Waters,
   California Chair, Democratic Caucus Special Committee on Election
   Reform Richard A. Gephardt, Missouri House Democratic Leader Martin
   Frost, Texas Chair, House Democratic Caucus Rosa DeLauro, Connecticut
   Assistant to the Democratic Leader John Conyers, Jr., Michigan Vice
   Chair Steny Hoyer, Maryland Vice Chair David Price, North Carolina Vice
   Chair Gary Condit, California Vice Chair Alcee Hastings, Florida Vice
   Chair Eddie Bernice Johnson, Texas Vice Chair Charlie Gonzalez, Texas
   Vice Chair Jan Schakowsky, Illinois Vice Chair Stephen J. Kaufman
   Counsel to the Committee A Note from the Chair Making Every Vote Count!
   In the days and weeks following the 2000 presidential election, I
   watched along with other Americans as the outcome of the election was
   decided by election boards and by the courts. I never could have
   imagined that the results of our presidential election would be decided
   by judges, rather than voters. Yet despite the political and legal
   maneuvering and despite the disappointment and anger of many American
   citizens, the President was sworn into office and there was an orderly
   transfer of power. Democracy withstood the test of highly controversial
   and divisive election practices and procedures. Clearly, however, there
   is work to be done. The right to vote is a cornerstone of our
   democracy. And, as last fall's presidential election showed, many
   citizens are being denied their right to fully participate in our
   election process. When House Minority Leader Richard Gephardt formed
   the Democratic Caucus Special Committee on Election Reform, I jumped at
   the opportunity to serve as its Chair. As an advocate for civil rights,
   I welcomed the chance to lead the effort on the first major civil
   rights issue of the Twenty-first Century  election reform. I thank
   Leader Gephardt for creating a vehicle to study this important issue
   and for giving me the opportunity to Chair this Committee. For over six
   months, our Committee traveled across the Nation to hear from election
   experts and voters about what is both right and wrong with American
   elections. I have enjoyed this opportunity tremendously, and have been
   overwhelmed by the outpouring of interest and support from the Nation's
   voters. This report reflects their experiences and opinions. A special
   thanks to all the Vice-Chairs and Members of Congress and their staffs
   for hosting Committee meetings in their congressional districts.
   Several other Members of Congress who were not on the Committee
   displayed their interest in the issue by attending the hearings on
   their own. I also thank state and local elected officials, organized
   labor, civil rights groups, business representatives, grassroots
   activists, the clergy and academicians for their participation. I would
   like to extend my appreciation to the court reporters, photographers
   and camera operators who recorded each hearing so that a thorough
   record of the proceedings would be available. Additionally, I thank the
   Committee Counsel, Stephen J. Kaufman, and his staff for their
   dedication, legal expertise and advice. There is a great deal of work
   to be done in reforming our Nation's election system, and this report
   provides this Committee's recommendations for bringing our elections
   into the Twenty-first Century. Now Congress must roll up its sleeves
   and get to work on this very important issue. U.S. Congresswoman Maxine
   Waters, Chair Table of Contents 9 Executive Summary 11 Summary of
   Recommendations 17 Revitalizing our Nation's Election System 19 About
   the Special Committee 23 A Blueprint for National Reforms The Federal
   Government's Role in America's Elections 27 Uniform Voting Standards 31
   Federal Funding and Oversight The Mechanics of Voting in America's
   Elections 37 Voter Registration 41 Purging 44 Provisional Ballots 48
   Bilingual Voters 50 Voter Education How America Votes 57 Voting
   Equipment 66 Disabled Voters 71 Absentee Voting 74 Felon
   Disenfranchisement 77 Military Voting 81 Alternative Voting Methods The
   Polling Place Experience 89 Polling Place Facilities 94 Poll Workers
   100 Voter Intimidation 103 Voter Identification 105 Ballot and Voting
   Equipment Design Reporting Election Results 111 Impartial Election
   Officials 113 Counting the Votes 117 The Role of the Media in Elections
   120 End Notes Executive Summary The 2000 presidential election served
   as a wake-up call to all of us. Prior to the events in Florida last
   fall, we could not have imagined that our Nation's election system was
   in such disrepair. While some of the reported incidents in Florida were
   unique to that state's election, we now know that many of these issues
   arise in jurisdictions all over America. In the aftermath of the 2000
   presidential election, the House Democratic Caucus formed this Special
   Committee on Election Reform to address the problems with our Nation's
   election process. In February 2001, House Democratic Leader Richard
   Gephardt appointed the members of this Committee and its Chair,
   Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35), to tackle the difficult issue of
   election reform on behalf of the American People. The Vice-Chairs of
   this Committee include the ranking Democrats on the House Committee on
   the Judiciary and the House Administration Committee, Representatives
   John Conyers, Jr., and Steny Hoyer, respectively. These two House
   committees are vested with the authority to consider legislation
   effecting changes to our election process. From the beginning, our
   stated goal has been to ensure the integrity of the election process
   while increasing voter confidence and participation. Following its
   formation, the Committee conducted a series of public hearings around
   the Country designed to educate and inform us in developing solutions
   to repair our broken system. In all, the Committee held a total of six
   public hearings in: Philadelphia, San Antonio, Chicago, Jacksonville,
   Cleveland and Los Angeles. At these hearings, we heard from election
   experts, representatives from the NAACP, ACLU, and other Civil Rights
   organizations, state and local election officials, poll workers,
   representatives of the disability community, experts on ballot design,
   military voting officials and, most importantly, voters. This report is
   the culmination of six months of intense study on the issue of election
   reform. In reaching our findings and recommendations, we relied on
   testimony from our hearings, reports and studies issued by other
   organizations, as well as independent research conducted by our staff.
   In conducting this review of our election system, we were struck by the
   lack of attention given to the system prior to the November elections.
   Government, it seems, has abdicated its responsibilities when it comes
   to conducting elections. We cannot sit back and continue to let this
   happen while millions of voters are being disen- franchised at the
   polls. We must invest in the system or it will continue to fail our
   democracy. Government has the responsibility for ensuring that its
   citizens have the necessary tools and information to elect their
   representatives, and that election officials have the resources to
   conduct elections. This report provides a blueprint for modernizing our
   election system, professionalizing the way our system is run, and
   allocating the resources necessary to implement that system. There are
   many fine bills that already have been introduced in Congress. But
   these bills only serve as the starting point. This report proposes
   additional measures to support and supplement those bills, identifies
   key areas where minimum national standards are appropriate, and
   recommends changes at the state and local levels. Certain fundamental
   reforms must be required in federal elections to ensure that all
   eligible voters are afforded the opportunity to cast their ballots and
   have their votes properly counted. We believe the findings set forth in
   this report will go a long way toward ensuring the integrity of the
   election process, increasing voter participation and restoring the
   confidence of the American People. 9 Summary of Recommendations Minimum
   national standards must be adopted for use in federal elections The
   following requirements must be followed by each state in conducting
   Federal elections: < States must create and maintain statewide voter
   registration databases that are accessible by election workers at the
   polls on Election Day; < Voters may not be purged from the voting rolls
   due to mere inactivity or the failure to respond to a notification from
   election officials; < States must offer provisional ballots at the
   polling place to any voter whose name does not appear on the roster of
   eligible voters or who encounters a problem regarding eligibility at
   the polling place and believes he or she is entitled to vote; <
   Jurisdictions that serve qualified language minority groups under the
   Voting Rights Act must provide bilingual voting materials for all
   aspects of elections; < Sample ballots and voting information,
   including details on the voter's polling location, instructions on
   voting equipment and a statement of voting rights, must be mailed to
   every registered voter in advance of the election; < Voting systems
   must contain error detection devices at the precinct so voters can
   correct any errors before their ballots are cast and counted; < Polling
   places and voting equipment must be fully accessible to elderly voters,
   voters with physical disabilities and visually impaired and blind
   voters. These voters must be afforded the opportunity to cast a secret
   ballot at the polls; and < Absentee ballots must be made available to
   any voter who wishes to vote by absentee. The Federal government should
   provide funding and oversight of federal elections The federal
   government should immediately provide funding to enable states and
   local jurisdictions to upgrade their voting systems and abide by the
   proposed minimum national standards by the 2004 elections. The federal
   government should work with the states to oversee the implementation of
   national standards, conduct research and testing of new technologies,
   assist states with voter education and registration efforts, develop
   criteria for poll worker training, study and report on state compliance
   with federal laws, and ensure that our election system remains current.
   In addition to retaining its existing enforcement authority, the
   Department of Justice should assume additional responsibility for
   assuring that minimum national standards are implemented by the states.
   10 Efforts must be taken to register all eligible voters, and to ensure
   names have not been improperly removed from the registration lists
   Stronger enforcement of the National Voter Registration Act must be
   provided by the U.S. Department of Justice. Citizens who register
   through government agencies under NVRA should be given a receipt with a
   unique number to prove that they, in fact, registered to vote. Voter
   registration databases should be accessible at each precinct to resolve
   voter registration issues at the polling place. States should increase
   efforts to make voter registration easier, including shortening
   registration periods or providing for same day registration. Guidelines
   must be developed on the removal of names from registration rolls.
   Removal from voter lists should require some affirmative act on the
   part of the voter. Provisional ballots must be offered to voters whose
   names do not appear on the precinct roster States must offer
   provisional ballots at the polling place to any voter whose name does
   not appear on the roster of eligible voters or who encounters a problem
   regarding eligibility at the polling place and believes he or she is
   entitled to vote. If the voter casts a ballot in a precinct other than
   his or her own, election officials should count the votes for those
   candidates or measures for which the voter would have been eligible to
   vote in his or her correct precinct. Voting materials must be printed
   in languages other than English where necessary Bilingual ballots,
   sample ballots, voting instructions, bilingual poll workers and other
   voting materials must be made available to voters of certain language
   minority groups in jurisdictions covered by the Voting Rights Act of
   1965. Voter education efforts must be increased, especially targeted to
   new voters Sample ballots and voting information must be mailed to
   every registered voter for each federal election. Sample ballots shall
   include the name and address of the voter's polling place, the date of
   the election and the hours the polling place will be open, instructions
   on how to vote using the equipment employed in that jurisdiction,
   information on voting rights under federal and state laws, information
   on the right to request a provisional ballot if an issue arises at the
   polling place, and contact information if the voter needs to talk to
   election officials on Election Day. State and local election officials
   are encouraged to develop aggressive voter education programs which
   should target young people, new citizens and other first-time voters.
   Programs should be set up with schools to educate students about voting
   systems and provide demonstrations of voting equipment. Information
   booths should also be set up in public places, such as shopping malls,
   11 supermarkets and post offices, so voters can ask questions and
   practice voting prior to Election Day. Voting equipment must be brought
   into the 21st Century Funding must be provided to the states and local
   governments for the purpose of upgrading voting technology to systems
   which meet the above criteria. The Committee does not endorse any one
   voting system as we recognize that the selection of voting equipment
   should be left up to those who will be using the system and are in the
   best position to evaluate their needs and financial considerations. The
   responsible federal authority should have responsibility for testing
   and certifying new voting equipment. Election Day activities must be
   accessible to disabled voters Disability laws must be strengthened,
   including the definition of terms in the Voter Accessibility for the
   Elderly and Handicapped Act and the Americans with Disabilities Act.
   Enforcement of the NVRA, especially in the area of agency-based
   registration assistance, also must be tightened. Technologies that are
   sensitive to the needs of voters with physical disabilities and visual
   impairments, and provide features enabling these voters to cast a
   secret ballot, must be developed. The Federal government should provide
   funding to support a comprehensive study, which has the support of the
   disability community, of nationwide polling places to determine their
   accessibility to voters with special needs. Based on this study, the
   Federal government should work with states and the disability community
   to develop compliance standards for polling places in each state.
   Absentee voting should be embraced Absentee ballots must be made
   available to any voter who wishes to vote by absentee in a federal
   election. Local election officials should provide secure drop boxes at
   public locations that are accessible to disabled voters for the return
   of absentee ballots. The federal government should adopt a special
   class of postage to facilitate the return of absentee ballot
   applications and absentee ballots. The voting rights of ex-felons
   should be restored Ex-felons should be eligible to vote once they have
   completed their sentences, including any term of parole and probation.
   States should develop a procedure for restoring the voting rights of
   ex- felons by a simple notification and re-registration process that
   should become a part of all release procedures, with election
   officials, prison officials and parole boards working together to
   develop these programs. Military and overseas voting must be simplified
   and uniform 12 The return of absentee ballots by overseas uniformed
   personnel and citizens should be standardized to facilitate voting by
   these voters. This standardization should include postmark
   requirements, method of return, signature requirements and submission
   deadlines. Overseas voters should be allowed to request absentee
   ballots for both the primary and general elections at one time, and
   states should automatically send absentee ballots to those voters for
   the general election after receiving this notification. Notary
   requirements should be eliminated, as should the "Not Earlier Than"
   requirement. The Federal Write-In Absentee Ballots should be accepted
   for all elections. Americans should be given time off to vote Congress
   should enact legislation providing federal employees with up to two
   hours of time off with pay to vote in federal elections. States should
   adopt similar laws allowing public and private employees to receive
   time off with pay to vote. Election officials should use a new approach
   to selecting polling places Polling places should be centrally located,
   easily accessible to elderly and disabled voters, located near public
   transportation, built with adequate parking, and convenient to people
   heading to and from work or school. Local jurisdictions should work
   with the business community to house polling places in permanent
   locations that meet the aforementioned criteria. Private residences
   should be avoided where possible. Polling places should be equipped
   with modern communication devices so that problems which inevitably
   arise at the polls can be dealt with swiftly. All polling places should
   have phone lines or cell phones and laptop computers with voter
   registration databases or internet access to centralized voter
   registration databases. Poll workers must be better trained and better
   paid Poll worker training should be mandatory at least every two years.
   Poll workers should be adequately compensated for attending these
   training sessions. Congress should enact legislation giving federal
   employees Election Day off, without loss of pay or vacation time, to
   serve as poll workers. States and localities should consider adopting
   similar programs for state, county and city employees. State and local
   governments are also encouraged to work with local businesses and labor
   to develop a poll worker program for private sector employees. High
   school and college students should be recruited as poll workers,
   offering them extra credit or even making service a requirement. Each
   polling place should have a "professional" poll worker on Election Day.
   This person would be a full-time county or city employee who receives
   leave from his or her job each Election Day to serve as supervisor of a
   polling place. Poll worker compensation should be increased.
   Additionally, poll workers should work in two seven to eight hour
   shifts, rather than one 12-15 hour shift. 13 Voter intimidation has no
   place in the election process The Department of Justice must be more
   active in ferreting out violations of the Voting Rights Act and
   enforcing its terms. The Department should allocate the resources
   necessary to respond to voter complaints, and place observers in
   jurisdictions where complaints have been received. State and local
   election officials should be diligent in responding to voter reports
   about intimidation at the polls and complaints about abusive or
   incompetent poll workers. Police check points should be prohibited on
   Election Day, and uniformed law enforcement personnel should not be
   allowed to linger at the polling place unless they are voting. Voter
   identification requirements must not be abused Federal, state and local
   prosecutorial agencies must ensure that election officials and poll
   workers apply voter identification requirements equally in conformance
   with the Voting Rights Act. States and local jurisdictions may not
   require more than one form of identification from voters. The
   identification required must be readily available to all voters
   driver's licenses and passports may not be the only two forms of photo
   identification that are accepted. Social security cards should not be
   required, although they may be one of many forms of acceptable
   identification. Election officials should be impartial States and
   localities must recognize the importance of maintaining fairness and
   impartiality in the election system. To that end, state and local
   election officials should be selected on a non-partisan basis or in a
   way that ensures bipartisan checks and balances. Election officials
   should be forbidden from publicly supporting or campaigning for
   candidates for public office. Count and recount laws must be consistent
   Vote counting procedures should respect the intent of the voter. At the
   same time, states must adopt statewide guidelines that ensure a
   consistent result and give the public assurance that the vote
   tabulation process is being conducted in a fair and impartial manner.
   The deadline for certifying statewide election results should be a
   minimum of 14 days after the election to allow for a complete and
   orderly review of all ballots, including a mandatory manual check of a
   random sample of precincts within each county to verify that the vote
   tabulation machines were operating correctly on election night. The
   deadline for requesting recounts should not begin until after
   certification takes place. States should conduct automatic machine
   recounts if the election night vote differential is less than an amount
   to be determined by each state based on voting patterns and voting
   equipment. The right to a manual recount should be automatic upon
   request as long as the requestor is required to pay for the recount. 14
   Network election night coverage must not interfere with the election
   process Network news organizations should voluntarily refrain from
   making projections in presidential elections until the polls have
   closed in the Pacific Time Zone (8:00 p.m. Pacific, 11:00 p.m.
   Eastern). If network news organizations refuse to act voluntarily,
   Congress should consider legislation in conjunction with the states
   prohibiting the release of election night results in federal elections
   to members of the media until 8:00 p.m Pacific, 11:00 p.m. Eastern.
   Such restrictions may not single out the networks, but must prohibit
   the release of such information to anyone, as long as the public's
   right to an open and transparent vote counting process is protected. 15
   REVITALIZING OUR NATION'S ELECTION SYSTEM Congressman Steny Hoyer Vice
   Chair Congresswoman Maxine Waters Chair Voter Testifying Chicago
   Democratic Leader Richard Gephardt Vice Chair Congressman Alcee
   Hastings Vice Chair DEMOCRATIC CAUCUS SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON ELECTION
   REFORM REVITALIZING OUR NATION'S ELECTION SYSTEM " We have to make
   elections work. Too many Americans have given their lives in civil
   rights, in voting rights, in order to back up on this promise. We need
   to make sure that every vote cast is properly and accurately counted so
   that people will be willing to participate in our elections in the
   future. America is the cradle of democracy. We are the oldest democracy
   in the world. We are the greatest democracy in the history of the
   world. The rest of the world looks to us as a model of how to run
   elections. We must reassure people that their vote will count. We've
   got to revive and restore the democracy of the greatest country in the
   world. " - - - - D D D Deeeem m m mooooccccrrrraaaattttiiiicccc
   LLLLeeeeaaaaddddeeeerrrr RRRRiiiicccchhhhaaaarrrrdddd AAAA.... G G G
   Geeeepppphhhhaaaarrrrddddtttt First-time voter testifying on experience
   in Chicago The Honorable John Street Mayor of Philadelphia DEMOCRATIC
   CAUCUS SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON ELECTION REFORM REVITALIZING OUR NATION'S
   ELECTION SYSTEM Voters testifying, Los Angeles Mike Kreloff, Policy
   Director Congresswoman Office of Cook Co. Clerk Jan Schakowsky Chicago
   Vice Chair DEMOCRATIC CAUCUS SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON ELECTION REFORM
   REVITALIZING OUR NATION'S ELECTION SYSTEM "We know from studying this
   issue that the problems in our election system are not limited to
   Florida. Nor are they limited to the South, where racial barriers to
   voting still exist, or to the East, where antiquated voting equipment
   is still used. This is a nationwide problem which requires a nationwide
   solution. " - - - - C C C Coooonnnnggggrrrreeeessssssssw ww woooom m m
   maaaannnn M M M Maaaaxxxxiiiinnnneeee W W W Waaaatttteeeerrrrssss,,,, C
   C C Chhhhaaaaiiiirrrr Democratic Caucus Special Committee on Election
   Reform Congressman Charles Gonzalez Vice Chair Voter Testifying
   Jacksonville Phillip Zelikow National Commission on Federal Election
   Reform San Antonio DEMOCRATIC CAUCUS SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON ELECTION
   REFORM Revitalizing Our Nation's Election System The 2000 presidential
   election served as a wake-up call to all of us. For an agonizing
   thirty-seven days in November and December of 2000, the American People
   watched with amazement as the votes of thousands of Florida citizens
   were debated on television sets across the Country. No one could have
   imagined that our Nation's election system was in such disrepair. The
   November 2000 elections are now behind us, but the lessons of Florida
   remain. Last year's election revealed shortcomings in our election
   system that must be repaired so voters do not lose confidence in our
   electoral process. The events in Florida highlighted these shortcomings
   on a national stage for the first time. However, while some of what
   occurred in Florida was unique, many of the deficiencies we learned
   about occur on a regular basis in other jurisdictions. Problems at the
   polls and mechanical glitches inevitably and routinely arise on
   Election Day. In many instances, voters are improperly denied the right
   to cast their votes on Election Day  sometimes as the result of a
   concerted effort to deny certain people the right to vote, but most
   often the result of simple human error. During the last election: 1. In
   one New Mexico county, election officials withdrew 58,000 ballots
   because of an error in the database, leaving that state's five
   electoral votes up in the air for days. 2. In New Orleans, many voters
   were not allowed to vote because the state's motor vehicles department
   never processed their voter registration applications, as required by
   the Motor Voter laws. 3. In Maine, many voters were refused the
   opportunity to cast ballots at the polls because they were improperly
   purged from the voter rolls. 4. In Virginia, there were reports that
   many minority voters were asked for multiple forms of identification
   before being given their ballots. There were many other reports of
   voter intimidation, failed machinery, overwhelmed poll workers, and
   general confusion received from voters and election officials all over
   the country. The fact is, this is a nationwide problem that requires a
   comprehensive nationwide solution. And only Congress is uniquely
   situated to implement such reforms. That is why we Democrats in
   Congress chose to take on the difficult task of reforming our Nation's
   election process. In conducting this review of our election system, we
   were struck by the lack of attention given to the system prior to the
   November elections. Government, it seems, has abdicated its
   responsibilities 17 when it comes to conducting elections. While
   government has attempted to keep pace with private industry in meeting
   the needs of a technologically advanced society, our voting systems and
   technologies have lagged far behind. Until now, we have been content to
   sit back and accept our election system with all its faults, rather
   than imagining the possibilities. It took a titanic event like the
   Florida recount last November to show us that we cannot afford to be
   content with our current system. Government must treat our election
   system as it treats other government programs  by adapting to the
   times. Many government services are now available via the internet,
   through computerized technology or by automated phone systems. Yet our
   most precious governmental program  the operation of our elections  has
   been virtually ignored. Voters in many jurisdictions cast their votes
   on equipment that has been in use for several decades. We must invest
   in the system or it will continue to fail our democracy. Failures have
   occurred at every level of government, and at every stage of the
   electoral process. The federal government has ceded responsibility for
   conducting federal elections to the states, but has not provided the
   states with any funding to support their efforts. For their part, state
   and local jurisdictions have failed to allocate adequate resources to
   election officials and, until now, elections have ranked far down on
   the priority list. For this reason, Congress must assume a role by
   providing funding to the states to improve their election systems.
   Congress also should assure that all citizens voting in federal
   elections should have the same rights to cast their ballots and have
   them count. The Civil Rights Division of the U.S. Department of Justice
   should increase its efforts to enforce federal voting rights laws, and
   work with other federal agencies and the states to oversee the
   administration of our nation's elections and ensure that resources
   provided by Congress are fairly allocated. It is government's
   responsibility to ensure that citizens have the information and ability
   to elect their representatives, and that election officials have the
   resources to conduct elections. This report provides a blueprint for
   modernizing our election system, professionalizing the way our system
   is run, and allocating the resources necessary to implement the system.
   18 About the Special Committee The November 2000 election showed that
   the nation's election system is failing the American people. In the
   aftermath of the 2000 presidential election, the House Democratic
   Caucus formed this Special Committee on Election Reform to address the
   problems with our Nation's election process. In February 2001, House
   Democratic Leader Richard Gephardt appointed the members of this
   Committee and its Chair, Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35). The
   Vice-Chairs of this Committee include the ranking Democrats on the
   House Committee on the Judiciary and the House Administration
   Committee, Representatives John Conyers, Jr. (MI-14) and Steny Hoyer
   (MD-5), respectively. These two House committees are vested with the
   authority to pass legislation effecting changes to our election
   process. From the beginning, our stated goal has been to ensure the
   integrity of the election process while increasing voter confidence and
   participation. Since its formation, the Committee has conducted a
   series of public hearings around the Country designed to educate and
   inform us in developing solutions to repair our broken system. In all,
   the Committee held a total of six public hearings: Philadelphia, PA
   April 2, 2001 San Antonio, TX April 20, 2001 Chicago, IL May 19, 2001
   Jacksonville, FL June 18, 2001 Cleveland, OH July 21, 2001 Los Angeles,
   CA August 11, 2001 We began in Philadelphia, the birthplace of our
   democracy, and traveled to different regions of our Country to hear
   from election experts, representatives from the NAACP, ACLU, and other
   Civil Rights organizations, state and local election officials, poll
   workers, representatives of the disability community, experts on ballot
   design, military voting officials and, most importantly, voters. What
   we found at these hearings was a lack of uniformity in election laws
   between the states, frustration with the voting process, confusion with
   voting equipment and a complete lack of confidence in the ability of
   election officials and poll workers to safeguard an individual's right
   to vote. 19 Frankly, some of what we heard was startling. For example:
   < In Philadelphia, Juan Ramos and Petricio Morales testified about the
   city's method of verifying voter eligibility for those voters whose
   names do not appear on the precinct roster. These voters must travel to
   police stations and go before a judge to determine whether or not they
   have the right to vote. Voters must then travel all the way back to the
   polling location in order to cast their votes. Many of these voters end
   up not voting either because they are intimidated by going to a police
   station or because it is logistically impractical. < In San Antonio, we
   heard from Ms. Carmen Martinez, who went to vote last November at the
   same precinct she always has, only to be told that she could not vote
   because she was not on the precinct roster. Her name apparently had
   been purged from the rolls because she had not voted in a recent
   election. Ms. Martinez left the precinct embarrassed and unable to cast
   her vote. We were informed that Texas purged nearly 750,000 voters
   across the state prior to the November election. < The State of
   Illinois recorded the highest number of uncounted presidential votes
   last November. In the City of Chicago alone, over seven percent (7%) of
   the ballots cast failed to register a vote for president. Most of the
   spoiled ballots resulted from outdated voting equipment and confusing
   ballots that attempted to squeeze 456 punch positions on a ballot that
   was intended for 312. < In Duval County, Florida, almost eight and a
   half percent (8.5%) of the ballots cast in the November election were
   not counted for one reason or another. This number does not even
   account for the thousands of other registered voters who were denied
   the right to cast their ballots because they were denied access to the
   polls or because their names were improperly purged from the voting
   rolls. These findings were highlighted in the recent report issued by
   the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights. < In Cleveland, we heard election
   officials describe the difficulties they encountered locating adequate
   polling locations and finding poll workers to staff these locations. We
   also heard testimony about a mother and daughter who live at the same
   address and went to vote together on Election Day, yet found out they
   were assigned to different voting locations when the daughter's name
   did not appear on the precinct roster. The League of Women Voters also
   testified about their voter education efforts, which are designed to
   fill the gap left by state and local governments. < Finally, in Los
   Angeles, we heard Laura Camberos, a high school student who served as a
   poll worker under a county outreach program, talk about the importance
   of including younger citizens in the electoral process. We also heard
   from an ex-felon who was never told his voting rights could be
   restored. Moreover, we learned that Los Angeles County, the largest
   election jurisdiction in the Country, must provide election materials
   in seven languages to 20 service the county's ethnically diverse
   population. We also heard from a representative of the ACLU, which
   filed a lawsuit against the State of California alleging use of
   inferior voting equipment in minority areas. These hearings proved that
   the problems we discovered in Florida during the 2000 presidential
   election were not unique. In fact, they are part of a larger national
   problem. We thank all of the election officials, experts and voters for
   coming to our hearings and taking the time to share their knowledge and
   experiences with us. Their involvement has been instrumental in helping
   us develop solutions to the problems plaguing our election process.
   Further, in the months since the November election, there have been
   studies conducted and reports issued by several organizations and
   commissions. The U. S. Commission on Civil Rights conducted an
   extensive investigation into allegations of voting irregularities in
   Florida during the 2000 presidential election. The House Committee on
   Government Reform's Special Investigations Division issued a study
   examining income and racial disparities in uncounted ballots recorded
   during the 2000 presidential election. The CalTech/MIT Voting
   Technology Project issued an extensive report on upgrading voting
   technologies and improving voter registration systems. The National
   Commission on Federal Election Reform, a bi-partisan commission
   co-chaired by former Presidents Jimmy Carter and Gerald Ford, issued a
   report presenting a series of recommendations for reforming our
   election process. Finally, the Minority Staff of the House Judiciary
   Committee recently issued a report on nationwide election
   irregularities. Many other studies have been issued. We commend the
   work of all the organizations and commissions that have been studying
   our election system and recommending ways to reform our process. All of
   these reports have helped inform the Members of Congress as we develop
   a response to this problem. This report is the culmination of six
   months of intense study on the issue of election reform. In reaching
   our findings and recommendations, this Committee relied on testimony
   from our hearings, reports and studies issued by other organizations,
   and independent research based on information obtained from state and
   local election officials, various publications and websites. This
   report proposes measures to support and supplement those bills which
   already have been introduced in Congress, identifies key areas where
   minimum national standards are appropriate, and recommends changes at
   the state and local levels. We recognize that uniformity may not be the
   answer in all circumstances, but certain fundamental reforms are
   necessary to ensure that all eligible voters are afforded the
   opportunity to cast their ballots and have their votes properly
   counted. We believe the findings set forth in this report will go a
   long way toward ensuring the integrity of the election process,
   increasing voter participation and restoring the confidence of the
   American People. 21 A Blueprint for National Reforms The Committee
   explored a vast number of issues in determining how to improve our
   election process. Some of these issues involve upgrading old voting
   equipment such as punch card machines, which gained substantial
   attention following last fall's presidential election. However,
   technological advances in voting equipment alone will not solve all of
   the problems with our electoral process. After all, our election system
   is run by humans, not machines. Thus, we know there can be no true
   election reform unless, in addition to equipment upgrades, election
   officials and poll workers receive appropriate training on how to
   implement our voting system, antiquated and unjust policies are removed
   from the process and voters are sufficiently educated on how to use the
   system. What follows is an examination of the issues affecting our
   election system and this Committee's recommendations for addressing
   those issues. 23 The Federal Government's Role in America's Elections
   Uniform Voting Standards "No man is good enough to govern another man
   without that other's consent." - Abraham Lincoln There are varying
   opinions on what the federal government's role should be in conducting
   elections. While extensive powers have been granted to Congress to
   establish laws pertaining to federal elections, states contend that
   elections are fundamentally local events that should be conducted at
   the local level without federal interference. Currently, all elections,
   including federal elections, are run by the states, which generally
   rely on local election officials to implement and administer voting
   systems within their jurisdictions. Thus, even within states, counties
   may use different types of voting equipment and may employ different
   standards for counting ballots. Given the confusion surrounding our
   recent elections, many people have seized upon the lack of uniformity
   in our election system, and called upon Congress to implement uniform
   national standards for federal elections. Suggested national standards
   have included a standardized national ballot, uniform poll closing
   time, standardized voting equipment and a uniform system for counting
   votes. Presidential elections are unique. We all vote for the office of
   president. Thus, as we saw in Florida, the laws of one state or even
   one county may very well impact the choices of voters nationwide. This
   would argue in favor of some minimum national standards. However, the
   opposition to this endeavor is strong. The Constitution grants the
   federal government the power to dictate how federal elections must be
   run. Article I, Section 4, Clause 1 (Elections Clause) states the
   following: "The Times, Places and Manner of holding Elections for
   Senators and Representatives, shall be prescribed in each State by the
   Legislature thereof; but the Congress may at any time by Law make or
   alter such regulations, except as to the Places of chusing (sic)
   Senators." While the Constitution grants primary authority to the
   states, the Framers included language that Congress could impose
   restrictions on the states if necessary to ensure proper elections.
   Courts have interpreted this provision as giving Congress the authority
   to regulate the election of Senators as well.1 Congressional authority
   to regulate Presidential elections has not been as clearly defined, and
   there is limited guidance from case law.2 While the Supreme Court has
   held that Congressional authority to regulate Presidential elections is
   broader than merely regulating the time of choosing the President,
   there is no law governing the extent of Congressional authority to pass
   legislation regulating Presidential elections. 27 Congress does not
   have the authority to regulate state and local elections. In essence,
   the Constitution, through the Elections Clause, grants the power to
   conduct elections to the states, with the stipulation that Congress can
   step in when deemed necessary to deter discriminatory practices in
   federal, state and local elections.3 The federal government maintains
   this authority under the 14th, 15th, 19th, 24th and 26th Amendments to
   the Constitution, the Voting Rights Act of 1965 and the National Voter
   Registration Act of 1993. The Supreme Court has noted that "the States
   have evolved comprehensive, and in many respects complex, election
   codes regulating in most substantial ways, with respect to both federal
   and state elections, the time, place, and manner of holding primary and
   general elections, the registration and qualifications of voters, and
   the selection and qualification of candidates."4 Most states have
   decentralized elections, so localities carry the brunt of
   responsibilities in election administration. The National Conference of
   State Legislatures (NCSL), the National Association of Secretaries of
   State (NASS) and the National Association of State Election Directors
   (NASED) have all spoken against the possibility of federally conducted
   elections. The NCSL is not seeking federal funding for election reform,
   but should Congress make money available to states, the NCSL supports
   block grants for states to appropriate as they wish for reform
   measures.5 The NASS has requested that the federal government fully
   fund the continuous update of the voluntary Federal Voting Systems
   Standards (issued by the Federal Election Commission) and the
   development of voluntary management practice standards, and also
   requests that Congress provide block grants to states and localities to
   implement election reforms adopted by the states and localities without
   federal input.6 The National Commission on Federal Election Reform
   recently issued a report calling for a myriad of reforms to our
   election process, but stopped short of requiring states to comply with
   any minimum national standards. We recognize that state and local
   jurisdictions are in the best position to determine what is best for
   their voters, and we believe the federal government should provide
   funding to state and local governments to improve their voting systems.
   However, we do not believe that funding, without some basic minimum
   standards, is sufficient to achieve meaningful reform. If states were
   allowed to opt out of the recommended changes in federal elections,
   voters in those states would be denied the opportunity to participate
   in federal elections on the same basis as voters in other states which
   adopt the reforms. In presidential elections, where the votes of
   citizens in one state are dependent on the votes of citizens in others,
   this discrepancy could diminish the impact of votes in those states
   that agree to implement these reforms. An "Additional Statement"
   accompanying the National Commission's report argues that "certain
   reforms are fundamental enough to stand on their own as requirements,
   independent of any federal largesse." The authors stated: " `One
   person, one vote' is not a principle for local officials to trade off
   against potholes or jails, nor should it be conditioned on the
   willingness of Congress to appropriate an incentive in any given budget
   cycle. ... Congress is honor bound  perhaps in this field as in no
   other  to ensure that the promises 28 it makes through law to the
   American people will indeed be kept."7 We concur with these statements,
   and urge the adoption of certain fundamental standards that will
   strengthen the accuracy of voter registration lists; reduce the number
   of eligible voters who are wrongfully denied the right to vote; provide
   bilingual voting materials for those who need them; provide sufficient
   voting information to all registered voters in advance of the election;
   reduce the error rate at the polls; require polling place and voting
   equipment accessibility to the elderly, blind and physically disabled;
   and allow any registered voter to request an absentee ballot. These
   recommendations reflect certain fundamental principles that do not
   infringe upon the states' rights to conduct elections. Recommendations
   Congress should pass legislation providing the necessary funding to
   state and local governments to improve their voting systems, and
   requiring states to implement the following minimum national standards
   in conducting federal elections: 1. States must create and maintain
   statewide voter registration databases that are accessible by election
   workers at the polls on Election Day; 2. No voter may be removed from
   the voting rolls for mere inactivity, or for the mere failure to
   respond to a notification from election officials absent some other
   indicia of death, criminal conviction, or change of residence to a
   location outside of the jurisdiction; 3. Provisional ballots must be
   offered to any voter whose name does not appear on the roster of
   eligible voters or who encounters a problem regarding eligibility at
   the polling place and believes he or she is entitled to vote; 4.
   Jurisdictions that serve qualified language minority groups under the
   Voting Rights Act must provide bilingual voting materials for all
   aspects of elections. This includes pre-election materials, such as
   sample ballots and voter guides, and materials provided at the polls on
   Election Day, such as ballots, instructions and visual aids; 5. Sample
   ballots and voting information shall be mailed by election officials to
   every registered voter in a jurisdiction in advance of the election.
   Such materials shall include the name and address of the voter's
   polling place; the date of the election and the hours during which the
   polling place will be open; instructions on how to vote using the
   equipment employed in that jurisdiction; information on voting rights
   under federal and state laws; information on the right to request a
   provisional ballot if an issue arises at the polling place; and contact
   information if the voter needs to speak with election officials on
   Election Day; 6. Any voting system used in federal elections must
   contain error detection devices which can be accessed at the precinct
   so that voters can correct any errors before the ballot is cast and
   counted. Voting systems must either prevent a voter from overvoting or
   warn a voter that he 29 or she has chosen more than one candidate for a
   single office. Voting systems also must warn a voter that he or she has
   failed to vote for certain offices or has voted for fewer than the
   number of candidates for which he or she is entitled to vote; 7. Any
   polling place and voting system used in federal elections must be
   accessible to voters with physical disabilities, the blind, the
   visually impaired and the elderly, and must allow them to cast a secret
   ballot; and 8. Absentee ballots must be provided to any eligible voter
   who requests one, as long as an application for absentee voting is
   submitted in a timely manner. 30 Federal Funding and Oversight "Only
   Congress, with its powers and resources, is in a position to reform
   many of the problems faced by voters in Florida and around the country
   during the last election." - Committee Chair Maxine Waters,
   Jacksonville Hearing Election reform should not be a one-time
   phenomenon. Although it took an event like last fall's election to
   bring the issue to the Nation's attention, our election system has been
   in disrepair for years. While we have experienced dramatic improvements
   in technology and efficiency in other sectors of society, our election
   system has been left behind. We must continue to improve our system as
   we experience further demographic shifts and advances in technology.
   For this reason, we believe that the federal government should assume a
   stronger role in overseeing the continuing development of our Nation's
   election system. Congress should provide funding to enable states to
   meet minimum national standards and provide guidance on the
   implementation of new procedures for conducting federal elections.
   Federal Funding Congress must immediately authorize funding to enable
   states and local jurisdictions to upgrade voting equipment and
   implement the proposed minimum national standards. The initial
   investment necessary to upgrade our voting system will be substantial.
   According to the CalTech/MIT report, states and localities spend
   roughly $1 billion annually on elections.8 Until now, the bulk of this
   has been spent in the area of registration ($300-400 million), with
   $150-200 million spent on equipment upgrades.9 The report concluded
   that a nationwide upgrade to electronic voting would cost $2.6 billion,
   with an upgrade to precinct-level optical scan systems costing $1
   billion.10 The report recommended that the federal government absorb
   this cost, as well as the additional cost of upgrading registration
   systems. The National Commission on Federal Election Reform based their
   cost analysis on the CalTech/MIT numbers, and concluded that the
   federal government should share the role of funding elections 50/50
   with the states. They also noted that overall spending on election
   administration should increase by $300-400 million annually.11 We have
   received estimates that it will take anywhere from $3-6 billion to
   upgrade our nation's voting equipment and implement the reforms
   discussed in this report by the year 2004. This will require a
   significant commitment from the federal government and increased
   commitments from the states. However, we must be prepared to provide an
   ongoing commitment beyond 2004. These numbers are substantial, but it
   costs money to run a democracy. Government should make this commitment
   to the American People. 31 Responsibilities of Federal Government With
   the assistance of, and in conjunction with, state and local elections
   officials, the federal government should: < Develop regulations to
   govern compliance with minimum national standards in the conduct of
   elections; < Administer grants to states and local jurisdictions to
   upgrade voting equipment and comply with minimum national standards; <
   Conduct studies on the administration of elections and recommend new
   procedures; < Develop voter outreach and education efforts and examine
   new technologies for voting equipment; < Assist state and local
   election officials with the implementation of new programs and
   technologies; and < Issue periodic reports and make recommendations to
   Congress regarding the conduct of elections and compliance with federal
   standards and requirements. The U.S. Department of Justice's Civil
   Rights Division (DOJ) has been the primary agency responsible for
   ensuring compliance with the Voting Rights Act and other Civil Rights
   laws as they relate to elections. The Federal Election Commission,
   through the Office of Election Administration (OEA), also has been
   given responsibility in the conduct of elections. However, the OEA's
   role primarily has been advisory. The agency has conducted studies,
   developed voluntary voting system guidelines and reported to Congress
   on the impact of the Voting Accessibility for the Elderly and
   Handicapped Act of 1984 and the National Voter Registration Act of
   1993. Critics of the FEC note that the agency's responsibility for
   elections is overshadowed by its activities in the area of campaign
   finance. Some have advocated for the establishment of a completely new
   federal agency to administer federal grants and work with the states to
   develop and implement new programs and technologies. The National
   Commission, for example, called for the creation of a new federal
   agency, as have a number of bills that were introduced in Congress. We
   believe that the DOJ's enforcement powers should be increased, and that
   the DOJ should assume additional responsibility for assuring that the
   minimum national standards recommended in this report are implemented
   by the states. The DOJ should work with the OEA or a new federal agency
   to administer federal grants, adopt regulations, conduct studies and
   assist states with the implementation of minimum national standards and
   development of new programs. We do not express a preference for the FEC
   or a new federal agency. We simply state that the federal government
   should make it a priority to assist state and local election officials
   with the implementation of national standards by the 2004 general
   elections. Federal agencies should work with the states to ensure that
   funds are being spent in ways necessary to bring jurisdictions in
   compliance with the proposed minimum national standards. The Department
   of Justice should be responsible for determining whether the states
   are, in fact, complying with these requirements. 32 Recommendations 1.
   The federal government should allocate funding as soon as possible to
   states and local jurisdictions to upgrade voting equipment and meet the
   minimum national standards proposed in this report by 2004. Congress
   should provide continuing funding to develop new programs and
   technologies that will assure our system for conducting elections
   adapts with the times. 2. The U.S. Department of Justice should work
   with the Federal Election Commission or a new federal agency, and the
   states, to oversee the implementation of minimum national standards,
   conduct research and testing of new technologies, assist states with
   voter education and registration efforts, develop criteria for poll
   worker training, study and report on state compliance with federal
   laws, and ensure that our election system remains current. Enforcement
   should continue to rest with the Justice Department's Civil Rights
   Division. 33 The Mechanics of Voting in America's Elections Voter
   Registration "When I moved, I registered at City Hall because I was
   told when I changed my driver's license that I wouldn't be eligible to
   vote in all elections if I used the new motor voter law." - Carol
   Cleigh, Chicago Hearing As voter turnout continues to drop, efforts
   have been made to ease voter registration requirements in the hope this
   would open the process to more voters. While there are many factors
   impacting voter turnout, including increasing voter dissatisfaction
   with the political process, the starting point for any discussion is
   voter registration. We see two key issues affecting voter registration:
   barriers to registration and accuracy of registration records. We
   address these issues here and in the next section of this report.
   National Voter Registration Act of 1993 Amidst growing concern that
   states were placing too many obstacles on minority and disabled
   residents trying to register to vote, Congress passed and President
   Clinton signed the National Voter Registration Act (NVRA) in 1993. The
   Act, known as the "Motor Voter" law, took effect in January of 1995.
   NVRA requires states to provide simultaneous voter registration
   applications with motor vehicle driver's license applications or
   renewals; agency-based registration at all offices providing public
   assistance and state-funded programs for persons with disabilities; and
   a process by which registration forms can be mailed to election
   officials.12 The Act also places limitations and guidelines on how
   voter registration lists may be updated. Motor Voter has been heralded
   by government officials for increasing access to the polls. While
   states initially viewed Motor Voter as a challenge to their autonomy in
   conducting elections, states have, for the most part, streamlined their
   procedures to incorporate these federal regulations.13 Enforcement is
   the most challenging aspect of the NVRA. Some states have been slow to
   offer many of the services called for under the Act. Often, motor
   vehicle agencies do not transmit registration applications to election
   officials in a timely manner, and some agencies ignore this information
   completely. We have heard countless stories across the Nation about
   people who registered to vote through Motor Voter, only to find that
   their names did not appear on the registration list when they went to
   the polls on Election Day. Adding to the problem is the fact that the
   NVRA does not require that voters be given a receipt to confirm they
   registered to vote. Thus, voters who do not appear on the rolls often
   have no proof of registration. For this reason, government agencies
   must develop procedures for the prompt transmittal of voter
   registration applications to election officials. We believe state and
   local governments should develop 37 statewide computerized voter
   registration databases that enable election officials to access voter
   registration information gathered by other government agencies, so long
   as security and privacy concerns can be addressed. Such systems would
   facilitate registration and provide a more comprehensive means for
   updating voter records. Furthermore, statewide systems would enable
   election officials to track voters who may move to different
   jurisdictions within the same state. However, we should ensure that the
   availability of such information does not lead to more liberalized
   purging standards. Further, statewide voter registration databases must
   be accessible at the polls on Election Day. Often, precinct rosters are
   printed prior to the closing of the registration period. Therefore, a
   voter's name may appear on a registration database, even though it does
   not appear on the precinct list. Having access to the database at the
   polls would resolve many of these issues. State Efforts to Ease
   Registration Laws States vary on the time frame for registering to vote
   prior to an election. The NVRA says that no state may require
   registration forms to be received more than 30 days prior to an
   election. Forty-four states and the District of Columbia require
   applications to be received or postmarked ranging from 10 to 30 days
   before an election. Six states currently either do not require
   registration (North Dakota and some parts of Wisconsin) or allow for
   "same day" registration at the polls on Election Day (Idaho, Minnesota,
   New Hampshire, Wyoming and some parts of Wisconsin). Turnout in these
   states is higher than in most states, with four of the six states in
   the top ten for voter turnout.14 Same day registration provides the
   greatest access to our electoral system. It allows any citizen who is
   swayed to vote during the latter stages of a campaign to cast a ballot.
   Minnesota incorporated same day registration into their electoral
   system in 1974 and, on average, 15.86% of those voting each year since
   then have registered on Election Day. In 2000, 18.88% of voters
   registered at the polls on Election Day. Minnesota historically has had
   high voter turnout - ranking among the top ten in voting age population
   turnout in all but three elections in the past 40 years - and same day
   registration appears to have offered another option for the state's
   voters to participate in the system - the state has had the highest
   voting age population turnout of any state seven times since 1974,
   while only reaching this level once between 1948 and the adoption of
   same day registration. Similarly, other states with registration
   cut-off dates closer to Election Day tend to have a higher turnout of
   registered voters. In the November 2000 election, Connecticut, with a
   registration deadline of 14 days prior to the election, boasted a
   77.54% turnout of registered voters.15 38 Registration and Turnout
   Statistics: 1960-2000 Year Voting Age Registered % RV of Turnout (T)
   Difference %T of %T of Pop. (VAP) Voters (RV) VAP VAP RV 2000
   209,128,094 159,593,394 76.31 105,407,635 9,141,833 50.40 66.05 1996
   196,498,000 146,370,909 74.49 96,265,802 -8,139,353 48.99 65.77 1992
   189,529,000 137,958,178 72.79 104,405,155 12,810,464 55.09 75.68 1988
   182,778,000 130,456,628 71.37 91,594,691 -1,057,989 50.11 70.21 1984
   174,466,000 128,131,614 73.44 92,652,680 6,137,459 53.11 72.31 1980
   164,597,000 116,885,734 71.01 86,515,221 4,959,432 52.56 74.02 1976
   152,309,000 108,642,980 71.33 81,555,789 3,837,235 53.55 75.07 1972
   140,776,000 105,861,541 75.20 77,718,554 4,505,183 55.21 73.42 1968
   120,328,000 90,779,802 75.44 73,213,371 2,568,779 60.84 80.65 1964
   114,090,000 89,236,818 78.22 70,644,592 1,806,388 61.92 79.17 1960
   109,159,000 84,872,096 77.75 68,838,204 n/a 63.06 81.11 Source: CRS
   Report 96-932, a subsequent memorandum on the 1996 election, and 2000
   data from EDS staff. (Based on Election Data Service data.)16 Impact on
   Turnout According to data from Election Data Services, there are
   currently nearly 160 million registered voters in America, up from 146
   million in 1996. This represents almost 78% of the voting age
   population. A Federal Election Commission (FEC) report after the 1998
   election stated that 17,613,211 new voter applications were processed
   nationwide during the 1997-98 election cycle, 42.9% of which were
   completed at motor vehicle agencies under the Motor Voter law.17
   However, it is nearly impossible to tell whether registration affects
   turnout. Michael Traugott of the University of Michigan, a leading
   expert on election participation, has conducted an extensive study in
   this area. He concluded that Motor Voter may add voters to the
   registration lists, but there is no guarantee these people will vote.
   Also, he stressed that it is too soon to tell whether or not Motor
   Voter has had a positive effect on turnout, as the law has not been in
   place long enough to gauge its effect, and there are several variables
   to take into account when considering reasons why people don't vote.18
   Regardless of whether increased voter registration directly corresponds
   with increased turnout, every effort should be made to bring new voters
   into the election process. Government should make registration as easy
   as possible, rather than leaving it up to political parties, interest
   groups and community-based organizations to register voters. We would
   like to see governments conducting voter registration drives that are
   particularly directed to minority communities, new citizens and
   students. These efforts should take place everywhere from citizen
   swearing-in ceremonies to high schools to shopping centers. We envision
   a process where new citizens receive voter registration cards with
   their citizenship papers, and high school students receive registration
   forms with their diplomas. Moreover, consideration should be given to
   shortening the registration period in those states that still require
   registration thirty days prior to an 39 election. Recommendations 1.
   Election officials must develop statewide, computerized voter databases
   that facilitate registration and provide a more comprehensive means for
   updating voter records. These databases should be accessible at each
   precinct to resolve voter registration issues at the polling place. 2.
   The Committee recommends stronger enforcement of the NVRA, ensuring
   that state and local agencies covered by the Act offer registration
   materials and develop procedures for the prompt transmittal of voter
   registration applications to election officials, possibly by linking
   computer databases. 3. Citizens who register through government
   agencies under NVRA should be given a receipt with a unique number to
   prove that they, in fact, registered to vote. 4. Congress should
   appropriate funding to state and local government agencies to assist
   with the development of comprehensive voter registration drives that
   are particularly focused on registration of new voters. 5. States
   should consider shortening registration periods or even same day
   registration as a means of increasing voter participation. 40 Purging
   "Why do we purge voters? Why shouldn't the burden be on the government
   and not the citizens to say that there's a reason for you not voting?
   If you registered at 18 or 22 or yesterday or last week or last year,
   unless you have done something that prohibits you from voting, there
   should be a presumption that you are a voter." - Congresswoman Sheila
   Jackson Lee, Chicago Hearing It is not uncommon on Election Day for
   registered voters to go to the polls only to find that their names do
   not appear on the precinct roster. Sometimes, a voter's name may not
   appear due to a change in eligibility. Other times, this may be
   attributable to a change in a voter's residence. Many times, however,
   voters may find their names missing from the roster for no apparent
   reason. Thou- sands of voters were erroneously denied the right to vote
   in the November 2000 election because their names had been incorrectly
   removed from the voting rolls. Many of these votes may have been saved
   had their states offered a process for provisional balloting, as we
   discuss in another section. Election officials argue that purging is
   necessary to keep registration lists current and to trim the cost of
   preparing election materials for voters who are no longer active. Some
   assert that voting lists must be updated to eliminate the possibility
   of fraud, such as votes being cast by deceased voters. Frankly, we are
   more concerned that inappropriate criteria are being used to remove
   voters' names from the registration rolls than we are about the rare
   instance where people cast ballots in the name of dead voters. The
   purposeful disenfranchisement of hundreds of thousands of eligible
   voters is inexcusable. National Voter Registration Act of 1993 The NVRA
   provides guidelines for the states to follow when updating voter
   registration lists. Registered voters may not be removed from the list
   of eligible voters unless: < Requested by the voter; < By reason of
   criminal conviction or mental incapacity, as provided by State law; and
   < Through a program which makes a reasonable effort to remove the names
   of ineligible voters from the list of eligible voters by reason of
   death or change of residence, which must be carried out in accordance
   with specified guidelines.19 The disenfranchisement of convicted felons
   is addressed in another section. Here, we focus on the guidelines that
   provides broad discretion to the states to develop programs to remove
   ineligible voters from the rolls. With this discretion, states have
   created various programs which have at times proven to be effective and
   at other times proven to be disastrous. In most states, county election
   officials are primarily responsible for implementing these programs and
   maintaining voter registration rolls, though in some states the rolls
   are maintained by the state. As a result, the procedures employed
   within a state may be inconsistent from county to county. 41 How
   Purging Takes Place Under the NVRA, voters may not be removed simply
   because they haven't voted in recent elections. Yet many states appear
   to do just that. Texas removed 750,000 voters from the registration
   rolls prior to the November 2000 election, some for no apparent reason
   other than the fact that they hadn't voted recently. In San Antonio,
   the Committee heard testimony from a registered voter, Ms. Carmen
   Martinez, who was refused a ballot at her long-time polling place last
   November after she was told her name did not appear on the list. Ms.
   Martinez testified that she had never lived at any other address since
   the day she registered to vote, and couldn't understand why she was
   denied the right to vote. In Texas, county election officials mail
   non-forwardable renewal certificates every two years to all registered
   voters not currently on a "suspense list." If the renewal certificate
   is returned by the post office as undeliverable, the voter is placed on
   the suspense list and, simultaneously, they are sent a forwardable
   confirmation notice. Voters whose renewal certificates are returned by
   the post office, do not respond to a confirmation notice and have not
   voted in two consecutive federal election cycles are purged. According
   to the law, if a voter on the suspense list goes to the polls on
   Election Day, he or she can vote by swearing in writing he or she is
   legally eligible to vote, and election officials will update the voting
   records. Ms. Martinez, apparently, was not afforded this opportunity.
   As we discuss later in this report, such safeguards only work if poll
   workers are properly trained and voters are informed of their right to
   ask for such a ballot. Some states permit voters to challenge purges
   prior to Election Day, but the odds of voters finding out they were
   purged prior to arriving at the polls are slim. Typically it is too
   late to participate in the election, even though they are eligible. In
   the case of Carmen Martinez, who wasn't offered an affidavit and had no
   information regarding the challenge procedures, she still is ineligible
   to vote. In fact, thousands of voters like Ms. Martinez will continue
   to be precluded from voting until someone takes affirmative steps to
   restore their voting rights. Like Texas, Missouri voters who do not
   respond to requests for residence verification are purged from the
   lists after inactivity for two consecutive general elections occurring
   after the requests are mailed out. The City of St. Louis did not follow
   the state's purging procedures in the November election, leading the
   U.S. Department of Justice to monitor a city election in March of this
   year and to investigate the movement of voters to the inactive voter
   list. Prior to the November 2000 election, St. Louis purged its rolls
   of several thousand voters whose registration verification postcards
   were returned to the City Clerk as undeliverable. However, the City
   only mailed one non-forwardable verification postcard to voters,
   disregarding the requirement that a forwardable confirmation be sent
   after the preliminary verification is returned by the post office.
   These voters were placed on an inactive voter list. This list is
   required to be at each polling place, so that voters whose names are on
   the inactive list can verify their address and registration at 42 the
   polls and vote. Unfortunately, this did not occur. The City did not
   distribute these lists to the precincts. A copy was available at the
   Board of Elections, and poll workers were to call the Board to confirm
   registration. Yet all precincts did not have communication networks and
   thus couldn't contact the Board. As a result, some voters went to the
   Board's office to obtain a Court Order to vote. In addition, more
   confusion resulted in the City when one Judge ruled that due to the
   errors, all polling places in the city should remain open until 10 p.m.
   This decision was overturned by an Appellate Court shortly thereafter.
   While many states have suffered the unintended consequences of purging,
   Florida appears to represent a clear abuse of the purging system.
   Following the 1999 Miami Mayoral election, in which findings of fraud
   helped overturn the election, the Florida state legislature moved to
   clean up the registration rolls, and authorized $4 million for a
   private company to "scrub" the rolls. In the end, more than 173,000
   names were removed from the list, based on shoddy information such as
   people with similar names and birth dates as ex-felons. Taking the
   fiasco one step further, Governor Jeb Bush ordered the removal of
   ex-felons who had been convicted in other states, but had previously
   had their rights restored in those other states. These actions by the
   Governor were in complete disregard of the Full Faith and Credit Clause
   of the U.S. Constitution, which requires each state to abide by the
   decisions of another, as well as three state court decisions in Florida
   against this practice.20 The NAACP, The Advancement Project, ACLU,
   Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law, and People for the
   American Way Foundation filed suit in Florida over the improper purging
   of voter rolls, among other issues. The suit alleges that the purging
   process had a disproportionate impact on African American voters
   because a larger percentage of African American voters than Caucasian
   voters were wrongly removed from the voter registration lists.
   Recommendations 1. The federal government should develop guidelines
   designed to navigate the states through effective purging activities
   under National Voter Registration Act. These guidelines should include
   address verification procedures and standards for verifying voter
   information, such as criminal conviction records. 2. Removal from voter
   lists should require some affirmative act on the part of the voter or
   confirmation through multiple sources that a voter has moved, rather
   than relying strictly upon notification forms that are returned by the
   post office as undeliverable. 3. Notification forms should have spaces
   available for postal officials to provide forwarding addresses, so that
   election officials then can send re-registration packets to voters who
   have moved, rather than simply removing them from the rolls. 43
   Provisional Ballots "In the 20 minutes I was at the polls, two people
   were turned away by poll workers and left the room. Two more people
   would have also left had I not asked the poll workers why they weren't
   giving out provisional ballots. All I could think was, if it happened
   four times in the 20 minutes I was there, what happened during the rest
   of the day?" - Raven Lopez Workman, Los Angeles Hearing A common
   scenario in every election is the voter who shows up at the polls only
   to discover that his or her name does not appear on the precinct roster
   or is otherwise denied the right to vote. Sometimes this may be the
   fault of the voter, who may have moved and forgotten to re-register at
   the new address. More often, however, it is because the system has
   failed the voter. Poll workers may overlook a voter's name on the
   precinct roster, or may not be aware that the voter is listed on a
   supplemental roster containing the names of voters who registered
   shortly before the election. Election officials may misspell a voter's
   last name when inputting registration information into the system.
   Voters may show up at the wrong precinct because they did not receive
   notice that the polling place had moved. As we discussed previously,
   another common problem is the failure of motor vehicles departments and
   public service agencies to forward registration information for voters
   who registered through the Motor Voter laws to election officials on a
   timely basis. Still other voters may have had their names improperly
   purged from the voting rolls, or may be denied a ballot because of
   improper identification or threats of intimidation. Rather than denying
   these otherwise qualified voters the right to vote, provisional voting
   affords a mechanism for allowing people to vote and having their
   registration verified later. We believe that provisional voting is
   necessary to the administration of a fair and effective election
   system, and provides the ultimate safeguard to ensuring a person's
   right to vote. For this reason, we believe that provisional voting
   should be required in every jurisdiction. States' Use of Provisional
   Ballots Presently, more than half of the states do not provide a system
   for provisional voting. In the states which provide the option, laws
   differ markedly. In some states, provisional voting is referred to as
   voting by affidavit, tendered, challenged or questioned ballots.
   Amazingly, some states do not have any system of provisional voting. In
   all, eighteen states use a system of provisional balloting, while an
   additional six states have same day or no registration (therefore
   eliminating the necessity of provisional balloting). We have found,
   however, that even in many states that offer provisional voting, the
   system has no practical effect. Some states that allow provisional
   balloting do not permit voters to cast their votes provisionally unless
   they are at their proper precinct. Thus, if voters show up at the wrong
   precinct within the same 44 voting jurisdiction, their votes will not
   be counted. In other jurisdictions, the availability of provisional
   ballots is undermined by poorly trained poll workers who do not know to
   offer them to voters. California provides a good example of a
   provisional voting system that generally works. As part of their
   training materials, poll workers in California are instructed to advise
   voters of their right to cast a provisional ballot if the voter
   otherwise would be denied the right to vote. This, of course, does not
   always happen. Nonetheless, if the system operates as it should, voters
   are allowed to cast a ballot and provide information to election
   officials designed to verify the voter's eligibility. In accordance
   with the NVRA, voters in California who move into a district within 15
   days of an election are permitted to vote either at their prior polling
   location or provisionally at their new polling place, as long as they
   are located in the same district. Provisional ballot envelopes are
   turned into election officials on election night, but they are not
   counted right away. Over the next days and weeks, election officials
   research the voter's information and determine whether he or she was
   eligible to vote. If the voter is, in fact, eligible, the ballot is
   counted. Voter information contained on the provisional envelope
   accompanying the ballot is used to update the voter's registration
   information, if necessary. This is a time consuming and costly process,
   but one that is necessary to ensure that every vote cast is counted. In
   the November 2000 election, 99,450 provisional ballots were dispersed
   at the polls in Los Angeles County. Of these, 61,521 were eventually
   counted, roughly 61.86%.21 The numbers are even higher in other states
   and localities. In the state of Alaska, out of the 22,642 "questioned"
   ballots dispersed, 22,293 (98.45%) were counted.22 In King County,
   Washington, which includes Seattle, 13,307 of the 17,082 provisional
   ballots cast were ultimately counted, or 77.9%.23 In Cuyahoga County,
   Ohio, which includes Cleveland, 16,392 out of the 22,915 provisional
   ballots cast were counted (71.53%).24 In Wake County, North Carolina, a
   remarkable 84.45% of provisional ballots were counted in the November
   election.25 Less populous states, including Rhode Island, South Dakota
   and Montana, do not use provisional ballots, citing the close proximity
   to election offices in case of disputes and the fact that most poll
   workers know regular voters by name. While these reasons generally
   suffice in smaller states, we do not believe they adequately substitute
   for a system that ensures a citizen's right to vote. In Pennsylvania,
   officials cite fraud as a major concern regarding provisional voting.
   Thus, at our Philadelphia hearing, we learned how local election
   officials have dealt with the problem. Juan Ramos, Founder of the
   Delaware Valley Voter Registration Education Project, and Petricio
   Morales, an average voter, testified that voters whose names do not
   appear on the precinct rosters are required to travel to police
   stations to see a judge, who determines whether or not they have the
   right to vote. Voters must then travel all the way back to the polling
   location in order to cast their votes. 45 Needless to say, many voters
   who are faced with the choice of traveling to the police station or
   leaving, end up not voting either because they are intimidated by going
   to a police station or because it is logistically difficult. This
   problem is not limited to minority communities, however. Andrew
   Dinniman, a County Commissioner from Chester County, a suburban area
   outside of Philadelphia, testified that some voters are required to
   travel 45 minutes to an hour to the office of the county seat to
   provide proof of registration if they want to vote on Election Day. Mr.
   Dinniman stated that countless voters left the polls without voting
   rather than going through that difficult procedure on Election Day. At
   our Jacksonville hearing, we were told that voters were turned away at
   the polls after being told they could not vote. Ironically, Florida had
   an affidavit voting procedure that allowed for provisional voting under
   limited circumstances. This procedure, which was used sparingly in the
   November elections, could have saved tens of thousands of Florida
   voters from being disenfranchised. Voters also should be allowed to
   cast provisional ballots at precincts within the same voting
   jurisdiction that do not have identical ballots as the voter's proper
   precinct. We believe that provisional voting procedures should enable
   election officials to count votes for those candidates or measures that
   are common to all ballots, such as candidates for President and U.S.
   Senator, and discard any other vote appearing on the ballot that the
   voter otherwise would not have been able to cast at his or her
   precinct. We are disturbed that some jurisdictions are apparently
   unwilling to do this. We urge election officials to adopt duplication
   procedures or develop ways to program their vote tabulation systems to
   register these votes. The need for provisional ballots may diminish as
   we modernize our election system and develop voter registration
   databases that are accessible at the polling place. In the future, when
   systems are entirely computerized and polling places have access to
   statewide voter registration databases, voters may be able to cast
   their ballots at any polling place in the state. We are excited by
   these possibilities. Until that time, however, we must do what we can
   to ensure that as many voters as possible are able to exercise their
   rights to vote. Provisional voting provides that assurance. In fact, it
   seems to us that a consensus has formed on this issue at the national
   level. Both the National Commission on Federal Election Reform and the
   CalTech/MIT report have strongly endorsed the use of provisional
   ballots. The Dodd-Conyers bill currently pending in the Senate and
   legislation to be proposed in the House by Representatives Ney and
   Hoyer both contain provisional voting requirements. An additional bill
   (H.R. 1004) requiring provisional voting has been introduced in the
   House by Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky. We thus believe that states
   should implement these provisional ballot procedures immediately.
   Recommendations 1. All states should be required to offer provisional
   ballots to any voter whose name does not appear on the roster of
   eligible voters or who encounters a problem regarding eligibility at 46
   the polling place and believes he or she is entitled to vote. 2.
   Provisional ballots must be offered to voters at the polling place, and
   not by any means that requires the voter to travel to any location
   other than the polling place to cast a provisional ballot. Provisional
   ballots must be given to election officials for verification of the
   voter's eligibility either at the polling place or at a central
   counting location. 3. The ballot of any voter whose eligibility to vote
   has been verified must be counted and included in the final certified
   vote totals for each race in which the voter was eligible to vote. 4.
   If the voter casts a ballot in a precinct other than his or her own,
   election officials should count the votes for those candidates or
   measures for which the voter would have been eligible to vote in his or
   her correct precinct. 5. Poll workers should be responsible for
   informing voters whose names do not appear on the voting rolls of their
   right to vote by provisional ballot, and should be trained in the
   procedures pertaining to the use of provisional ballots. 6. Election
   officials should use information provided by the voter to update voter
   registration information once the voter's eligibility is verified. 7.
   Election officials should notify any voter whose provisional ballot is
   rejected that their voter registration information must be updated, and
   send them a voter registration form. 47 Bilingual Voters "English is my
   second language, and I understand the problem of Asian-Americans who
   just  who are new citizens. The culture is new to us, and the way the
   government operate is not the same as in our country. We used to just
   doing what we're told, and here we get to participate, and we don't
   know how. We need a lot of education and civic classes, and we are also
   need bilingual poll workers to help new citizens to mainstream into
   American society." - Laura Abrams, Los Angeles Hearing The multitude of
   languages spoken in our Country presents many challenges to election
   administrators. To protect language minorities, laws have been passed
   to ensure the ability of non- English speaking Americans to participate
   in our electoral system. The Voting Rights Act of 1965 (VRA) requires
   states and political subdivisions to provide election materials in a
   language other than English if more than 10,000 citizens of the voting
   age population or 5% of the population speak that language. Any
   material or information that is provided to English- speaking voters
   must be provided to members of each language minority in the state or
   subdivision. This includes sample ballots, voter instructions and
   ballots themselves. On Election Day, bilingual poll workers are
   required in precincts covered by the Act so they can assist voters in
   casting their ballots. This is not always easy. Finding election day
   workers with certain language skills takes a great deal of effort. The
   number of workers required to adequately staff precincts can also pose
   a challenge to election administrators. At the Los Angeles hearing, we
   heard from a number of voters who had problems on Election Day with
   language issues. In Los Angeles County alone, the VRA and County
   ordinances require that voting materials and assistance must be
   provided in seven different languages -- English, Spanish, Chinese,
   Japanese, Korean, Vietnamese and Tagalog. This requires hundreds of
   poll workers who speak these languages. To complicate matters, some
   languages have several different dialects. Thus, simply recruiting poll
   workers who speak Chinese may not be enough, as their dialect might not
   be familiar to other voters from China. In Los Angeles County,
   Russian-speaking citizens are part of a growing language minority.
   While the County thus far has not been required to provide poll workers
   who are fluent in Russian, this may change with the new census data.
   The Russian community in Los Angeles has reported frustration with the
   lack of Russian-speaking poll workers in certain communities. We
   encourage election officials to work closely with community-based
   organizations who are active in minority communities falling under the
   jurisdiction of the Voting Rights Act to recruit bilingual poll
   workers. In addition to those language minority groups which are
   protected by the VRA, state and local election officials should work
   with local organizations to recruit poll workers who speak 48 other
   languages to provide additional assistance to voters who are not in a
   protected class, but who nonetheless require language assistance on
   Election Day. Recommendation 1. Bilingual ballots, sample ballots,
   voting instructions, bilingual poll workers and other voting materials
   must be made available to voters of qualified language minority groups
   in jurisdictions covered by the Voting Rights Act of 1965. The
   Department of Justice should increase its enforcement efforts in this
   area. 49 Voter Education "...[R]egarding voter education and the
   possibility of government helping with our efforts, we would welcome it
   immensely. At this time, the League [of Women Voters] primarily
   receives funding through the generous support of foundations that are
   here locally. ... If the government were more involved and possibly
   offered stipends or some form of monetary help or assistance, we would
   greatly appreciate it." - Sherece Brown-Gray, Cleveland Hearing One
   positive result coming out of the 2000 Presidential election is that
   voters are more aware of our election process. The word "chad" has now
   become a part of our national lexicon. Frank Martinez of the Los
   Angeles City Clerk's office recently testified at the Los Angeles
   hearing about the success of the city's "Got Chad" voter awareness
   campaign in the 2001 Los Angeles municipal elections. The U.S. has
   offered assistance to nations throughout the world establishing systems
   for conducting elections. Yet little attention has been paid to
   educating voters in our own country on how to maneuver their way
   through our election process. Many jurisdictions do not even send
   voting information to voters. In many places, political parties, unions
   or community-based organizations are the only source of voting
   information for voters. The cost of printing and mailing voting
   materials is not insignificant, and education drives place additional
   personnel and monetary constraints on election officials. In order to
   provide voters the opportunity to fully participate in the electoral
   process, state and local election officials must make voter education a
   priority, and the federal government must be prepared to provide
   funding to support these efforts. The federal government also could
   alleviate these costs by creating a special postage rate for election
   materials. State Voter Education Efforts Voter guides are an important
   tool that is not used as widely as most officials would like. An
   article by Peter Brien, slated for publication this fall, takes a close
   look at voter guides and their effect on the public.26 His findings
   include: < Eighteen states produce pamphlets for initiatives; four are
   required by law to create guides for elections to office (Utah,
   Washington, Oregon and Alaska), but these states' distribution
   requirements vary - Utah is not required to mail them, and the other
   three mail one guide to each household with a registered voter; < Voter
   guides in these four states include candidate statements, registration
   information and internet addresses. They vary on other information,
   such as on sample ballots and absentee ballots; < Estimates for
   producing and distributing voter information guides range from $0.21 to
   $0.85 per registered voter for these four states. They are funded
   through appropriations from state legislatures. Candidates are
   sometimes charged for their statements; and 50 < Voters in these four
   states feel the materials are useful, not too complicated, unbiased and
   want their distribution to continue. In California, the Secretary of
   State's office sponsors a Voter Registration Week which, in addition to
   registering new voters, aims to educate voters on the candidates and
   how to vote. The state is required by law to mail a voter information
   guide to all households with registered voters. These guides contain
   pro and con arguments for issues on the ballot, but only include
   information on candidates in statewide races. They do not contain
   candidate statements. A new law takes effect in 2002 requiring the
   guides to include statements from all candidates for statewide office.
   For November 2000, the State mailed roughly 12 million guides at a
   total cost of $5.1 million, roughly $2.35 per guide.27 According to
   Brien's research, a 1998 survey of California voters found that 70%
   felt the guide is the most important source of information they
   received, more important than television stories, newspapers
