http://jncorlett.lbl.gov/Using%20Personal%20WebSharing.html

                                 [macOS.GIF]

                                 How to Use
                         Mac OS Personal Web Sharing

   Mac OS Personal Web Sharing is the easiest way to share your
   information with others on your intranet, no matter what type of
   computer or browser they're using. All you do is put the items you want
   to share in the Web Pages folder and turn on Web Sharing.

   As long as your computer is connected to a TCP/IP network (intranet or
   Internet) and your server is running (turned on in the Web Sharing
   control panel), the server's content is available to users of the
   network. You control what items are shared and who can see those items,
   by using the standard Mac OS file sharing privileges. You can specify
   who has access to items and assign a password to some or all of your
   Web server's content.

   The first step in using Personal Web Sharing is to install the software
   on your system, as described later in these instructions. (The software
   may already be installed. To verify whether Personal Web Sharing is
   installed, look for the Web Sharing control panel.)

   After installation, you'll see two components: the Web Sharing control
   panel (in the Control Panels folder) and the Web Pages folder (at the
   top level of your hard disk). You use the control panel to turn Web
   Sharing on or off, to configure the way your server operates, and to
   designate the folder and home page you want to use as your server. The
   Web Pages folder holds the contents you want to share.

   What you need for Personal Web Sharing

   Quick setup

   Installing Personal Web Sharing

   Before you turn on Web Sharing

   Configuring your Web server

   Using Personal Web Sharing

   Getting the most from your server

   Learning more about Web Sharing

   Troubleshooting

   Glossary

  What you need for Personal Web Sharing

   System: You need Mac OS 8.5 or a later version and either Open
   Transport 2.0 or a later version (recommended) with an active TCP/IP
   network connection.

  Quick setup

   The procedure that follows provides a brief version of installing and
   setting up Personal Web Sharing. Detailed instructions for each stage
   of the procedure are presented later in this document.
     * Review the Read Me file for Personal Web Sharing.
     * Install the software by opening the WebScript document.
     * Before you turn on Web Sharing, make sure you have an active TCP/IP
       connection. (Personal Web Sharing is not recommended for use over a
       modem.)
     * Turn on Web Sharing in the control panel and select a server folder
       and home page for your server, if desired.
     * Specify whether visitors to your server will have read-only access
       to files, or set Mac OS file sharing privileges for users of the
       server. (If you use file sharing privileges, be sure to turn on
       file sharing and share the server folder or no one will have access
       to the server.)
     * Add the files you want visitors to your server to see and use.
     * Notify others on the network that your server is available and give
       them the server's IP address.

  Installing Personal Web Sharing

   Personal Web Sharing is installed as a standard part of Mac OS 8. If
   you are not using Mac OS 8 or you used the Custom Install option to
   install Mac OS 8 and did not include Web Sharing, you must install the
   software. Look for the Web Sharing control panel (in the Control Panels
   folder) to determine whether Web Sharing is installed on your computer.

   Note: You must use Personal Web Sharing's Custom Install option to add
   Personal Web Sharing to the Control Strip. (See "Quick Access to Web
   Sharing with the Control Strip" later in this document for more about
   using the Control Strip.)

   Follow the steps below to install Personal Web Sharing.

    Review the Read Me file

   Before you install Mac OS Personal Web Sharing, review the Read Me file
   in the folder with the software. This document contains the latest
   information about the software and alerts you to any last-minute
   changes or precautions you should know about when setting up and using
   your Web server. (The Read Me file is provided as an HTML document to
   read in your browser and as a SimpleText document. The two files
   contain the same information.)

    Install the software

    1. Double-click the WebScript icon to open it.
    2. Read the software license and click Agree.
    3. For a custom installation, choose Custom Install from the pop-up
       menu.
    4. Use the Switch Disk button to select the disk on which to install
       Personal Web Sharing.
    5. Click Install to begin installation. (If a message reports that
       installation cannot take place until other applications quit, click
       Continue.)
    6. Click Restart when installation is complete.

  Before you turn on Web Sharing

   Personal Web Sharing needs an active TCP/IP network connection to
   operate. It is not recommended for use over a modem.

   Important: Before you turn on Web Sharing, make certain that you have
   an active TCP/IP network connection by checking your computer's TCP/IP
   configuration. (If you need help determining whether you have an IP
   connection, consult a network administrator.)

   Once you've installed the software and verified that you have an active
   TCP/IP network connection, you can turn on Web Sharing (by clicking the
   Start button in the Web Sharing control panel) and begin using your
   server immediately. The server will use the control panel's default
   settings, which are listed in the next section, "Configuring Your Web
   Server." Two of these settings include read-only access for all
   visitors to your server and displaying the contents of your Web Pages
   folder (the default server) as a list, rather than showing a specific
   home page.

  Configuring your Web server

   You can change the default settings for your Web server by using the
   Web Sharing control panel's options and the Preferences command in the
   Edit menu when the control panel is open. The default settings are
   listed in the table below.

   Default settings for Personal Web Sharing

   Setting

   Default value

   Options

   In the Web Sharing control panel

   Web Folder

   Web Pages folder on hard disk

   Choose another folder

   Home Page

   None (Personal NetFinder displays server items as a list)

   Choose an HTML document as the home page

   Give everyone read-only access

   On

   File-sharing privileges for visitors to the server (file sharing must
   be on)

   Use File Sharing to control user access

   Off

   Start/stop

   In Web Sharing Preferences (Edit menu of the control panel)

   Web Sharing Log

   Off

   Turn on or off and adjust size

   Web Sharing Port

   80

   Change number
   (Note: Numbers below 80 may not be accessible from some browsers;
   numbers below 1000 may be reserved for other services.)

   Allow Aliases to open items outside the Web folder

   Off

   Allow access to items outside server folder by means of aliases

   Allow guests with write access to replace files in the Web folder

   Off

   Available only when file sharing access is on

   Memory Allocation

   1200 K

   Change to another available size.
   (Note: A higher number could improve performance but requires more
   RAM.)

   MIME Types

   Standard set provided

   Edit, add, or delete MIME types

   Actions (control panel's method of handling CGI)

   Interface for adding, editing; none supplied

   Actions can be configured as pre-process, post-process, launch at
   suffix, or filter

   Follow the instructions below to configure each of the preferences for
   Personal Web Sharing. (See the next section, "Using Personal Web
   Sharing," for instructions on using the control panel's settings.)

    Open a log of server activity

   To open a log for the first time, follow these steps.
    1. Open the Web Sharing control panel and choose Preferences from the
       Edit menu.
    2. Click the Options tab (if necessary).
    3. Click to put an X in the box labeled Web Sharing Log.
    4. Click Save.

   To view the log after the server has been used, open the log (by
   opening the Web Sharing control panel and choosing Open Web Sharing Log
   from the File menu or choosing Preference in the Edit menu and clicking
   Open Log). When you open the log for the first time, you see the Mac OS
   Easy Open dialog box, which lists the text-editing applications
   available to open the log. Choose the application you want to use.

   Note: Because SimpleText cannot open text files larger than 32
   kilobytes (K), you should not use this application for the Web Sharing
   log. The record of server activity is likely to be larger than the
   SimpleText size limit.

   The Web Sharing log is stored in the Web Sharing folder in the
   Preferences folder (which is in the System Folder).
     * To stop using the log, click to remove the X from the box labeled
       Web Sharing Log in the Options section of Preferences and click
       Save.

    Change the server's port number

   To change the port number for the Web server, follow these steps.
    1. Open the Web Sharing control panel and choose Preferences from the
       Edit menu.
    2. Click the Options tab (if necessary).
    3. Select the number in the Web Sharing Port section and type the new
       port number you want to use.
       (Note: Numbers below 80 may not be accessible from some browsers;
       numbers below 1000 may be reserved for other services. Certain port
       numbers are reserved for specific types of devices; if you enter
       one of these numbers, you'll see a message advising you to use a
       different number.)
    4. Click Save.

   Note: When the port number is different from the default, the number
   appears at the end of the Web server's address. You can check this in
   the Web Sharing control panel.
     * To restore the default port number (80), click the Use Defaults
       button and click Save.

   Tip: If you have other Web server software (in addition to Personal Web
   Sharing), you can set up more than one server and use a different port
   number for each one. (Personal Web Sharing supports only one Web
   server, however.)

    Allow access to items outside the Web folder with aliases

   To allow access to items outside the Web server folder through the use
   of aliases, follow these steps.
    1. Open the Web Sharing control panel and choose Preferences from the
       Edit menu.
    2. Click the Options tab (if necessary).
    3. Click to put an X in the box labeled "Allow Aliases to open items
       outside the Web folder."
    4. Click Save.
    5. Create an alias for each item to which you want to provide access
       and put the aliases in your Web server folder.
    6. Either set the home page to None in the control panel (so that
       visitors see a list of items in the folder) or put links to the
       aliases on the home page or on other HTML pages linked to the home
       page.

   Using an alias is the preferred method for sharing the contents of a CD
   or other locked volume.

   Important: You might inadvertently share items you don't want others to
   see if you turn on access by means of aliases. For example, don't put
   an alias of your hard disk in the Web server folder unless you want to
   share the disk's contents through your server. Check all items that
   have aliases in the Web server folder to verify that you want to share
   them. (The default setting for access through aliases is off to prevent
   inadvertent sharing of items outside the server folder.)

   Tip: You can use an alias to serve files or a disk outside your Web
   server folder. For example, if you want to include the contents of a CD
   in your server, mount the CD, make an alias of it, and put the alias
   inside the Web folder. The simplest way to ensure that visitors to the
   server can see all contents of the CD is to set the home page to None
   in the Web Sharing control panel.

    Allow guests with write access to replace files in the Web folder

   To allow guests who have write access to replace items in the server
   folder, follow these steps.
    1. Open the Web Sharing control panel and choose Preferences from the
       Edit menu.
    2. Click the Options tab (if necessary).
    3. Click to put an X in the box labeled "Allow guests with write
       access to replace files in the Web folder."
    4. Click Save.
    5. Make sure file sharing is turned on in the File Sharing control
       panel.
    6. Make sure that the Web server folder is shared (select the folder,
       then choose Sharing from the File menu).
    7. Use the Users & Groups control panel to turn on Guest Access (open
       the Guest icon, choose Sharing in the pop-up menu, and click to put
       an X in the box labeled "Allow guests to connect to this
       computer").
    8. Set access privileges for the server folder (select it, then choose
       Sharing from the File menu and use the pop-up menu to give guests
       write access).

    Change the server's memory allocation

   To change the server's memory allocation, follow these steps.
    1. Open the Web Sharing control panel and choose Preferences from the
       Edit menu.
    2. Click the Options tab (if necessary).
    3. In the Memory Allocation section, choose a size from the pop-up
       menu.
    4. Click Save.

   Note: A higher memory allocation could improve the server's performance
   but requires more RAM.

    Modify a MIME type

   A MIME types is information associated with a file that tells the
   server and the visitor's browser the kind of file they're looking at
   and which application or plug-in is the right one to open the file.

   Personal Web Sharing has a standard set of MIME types that should
   include all the types you'll need for your Web server. If necessary,
   you can modify, add, or delete a MIME type. If you're not sure whether
   to modify a MIME type, consult an expert or reference source before
   making changes.

   Tip: The server applies MIME types in the order listed in the
   Preferences section of the Web Sharing control panel. Duplicates are
   ignored.

   To modify a MIME type, follow these steps.
    1. Open the Web Sharing control panel and choose Preferences from the
       Edit menu.
    2. Click the MIME Types tab (if necessary).
    3. Click the MIME type you want to modify and click Edit.
    4. In the MIME Types dialog box, select the text you want to revise
       and type new text to replace it. (You can change any or all of the
       items: File Suffix, MIME Type, Filetype, and Creator.)
    5. Click OK when you've finished revising the MIME Type.
    6. Click Save.

   Note: You can reset the MIME types to the default set provided with
   Personal Web Sharing or to the set saved most recently.
     * To restore the default set of MIME types, click the Defaults
       button.
     * To revert to the set of MIME types saved most recently, click the
       Revert button.

   Important: If you restore the default MIME types (by clicking the
   Defaults button), you will lose any modifications you're made to the
   original set.

    Add a MIME type

   To add a MIME type, follow these steps.
    1. Open the Web Sharing control panel and choose Preferences from the
       Edit menu.
    2. Click the MIME Types tab (if necessary).
    3. Click New.
    4. In the MIME Types dialog box, enter the text you want for the
       Suffix, MIME Type, Filetype, and Creator.
    5. Click OK when you've finished entering the text.
    6. Click Save to save the new MIME type.
       The new MIME type is added at the top of the list (if no item is
       selected) or below the item selected in the list.

   Tip: The server applies MIME types in the order listed in the
   Preferences section of the Web Sharing control panel. Duplicates are
   ignored.

   Note: You can reset the MIME types to the default set provided with
   Personal Web Sharing or to the set saved most recently.
     * To restore the default set of MIME types, click the Defaults
       button.
     * To revert to the set of MIME types saved most recently, click the
       Revert button.

   Important: If you restore the default MIME types (by clicking the
   Defaults button), you will lose all new MIME types you've added and any
   modifications you're made to the original set.

    Delete a MIME type

   To delete a MIME type, follow these steps.
    1. Open the Web Sharing control panel and choose Preferences from the
       Edit menu.
    2. Click the MIME Types tab (if necessary).
    3. Click the MIME type you want to delete and click Delete.
    4. Click Save.

   Important: Do not delete the MIME types that end with :"html" or "htm."
   These MIME types must be listed in the control panel's Preferences for
   your Web server to deliver HTML pages correctly to a browser
   application.

   Note: You can reset the MIME types to the default set provided with
   Personal Web Sharing or to the set saved most recently.
     * To restore the default set of MIME types, click the Defaults
       button.
     * To revert to the set of MIME types saved most recently, click the
       Revert button.

   Important: If you restore the default MIME types (by clicking the
   Defaults button), any MIME types you've deleted will be restored.

   Personal Web Sharing can handle a maximum of 64 MIME types.

    Add an action (Common Gateway Interface file, or CGI)

   Actions allow the Web server to launch a Common Gateway Interface
   (CGI), Asynchronous CGI (ACGI), or other application. You can add four
   types of actions to your server:
     * pre-process actions, which the server launches before it processes
       a URL;
     * post-process actions, which the server launches after processing a
       URL;
     * launch at suffix actions, for which the server uses the suffix in a
       URL to determine the application to launch; and
     * filters, which the server uses to launch a filtering application
       before processing a URL.

   A variety of CGIs are available from independent vendors; none are
   supplied with Personal Web Sharing. Consult the documentation or
   descriptive information provided for the CGI to determine how to use it
   with your Web server.

   To add an action (CGI) to your Web server, follow these steps.
    1. Check the documentation for the CGI you want to add to see what
       type it is and how to use it.
    2. Open the Web Sharing control panel and choose Preferences from the
       Edit menu.
    3. Click the Actions tab (if necessary).
    4. Click New.
    5. In the Action dialog box, select the type of action from the pop-up
       menu.
    6. Click Select and use the navigation buttons and menus to locate the
       application to launch.
    7. Click Open when the desired application is selected.
    8. Click OK to add the new action to the list.
    9. Click Save.

   Note: You can restore the most recent set of actions.
     * Click the Revert button to restore the set of actions saved most
       recently.

    Modify an action (Common Gateway Interface file, or CGI)

   To modify an action, follow these steps.
    1. Before modifying an action, check the documentation for the CGI to
       determine how to configure it with Personal Web Sharing.
    2. Open the Web Sharing control panel and choose Preferences from the
       Edit menu.
    3. Click the Actions tab (if necessary).
    4. Click an action to select it.
    5. In the Action dialog box, select the type of action from the pop-up
       menu.
    6. Click Select and use the navigation buttons and menus to locate the
       application to launch.
    7. Click Open when the desired application is selected.
    8. Click OK to add the revised action to the list.
    9. Click Save.

   Note: You can restore the most recent set of actions.
     * Click the Revert button to restore the set of actions saved most
       recently.

    Delete an action (Common Gateway Interface file, or CGI)

   To delete an action, follow these steps.
    1. Open the Web Sharing control panel and choose Preferences from the
       Edit menu.
    2. Click the Actions tab (if necessary).
    3. Click the action you want to delete and click Delete.
    4. Click Save.

   Note: You can restore the most recent set of actions.
     * Click the Revert button to restore the set of actions saved most
       recently.

   Personal Web Sharing can handle a maximum of 32 Actions.

  Using Personal Web Sharing

    Turn Web Sharing on

   Important: Make sure your computer is connected to a network and TCP/IP
   is properly configured and active before you turn on Personal Web
   Sharing.
    1. Open the Web Sharing control panel (in the Control Panels folder).
    2. Check the Web Identity section of the control panel to verify that
       the Web Folder and Home Page are the ones you want. (If you have
       not designated a folder and home page, Personal Web Sharing uses
       the Web Pages folder it created as the Web server and uses a list
       view of the server's content instead of a home page.)
    3. In the Web Sharing section of the control panel, click the Start
       button to turn on Web Sharing.
       A message confirms that sharing has been turned on or reports any
       problem that occurs. A message may tell you that you need to
       install part of the networking software or reconfigure one of the
       networking control panels. (If you need help with this procedure,
       consult your network administrator.)
    4. Once Web Sharing is on, copy the server's address so you can give
       it to others on the network. (Users can connect to your server
       using either the domain name or the IP address for your server.)

   To get a domain name, consult the person who set up the TCP/IP network.
     * To copy the domain name and address, you can write them down or use
       the Copy My Address command in the Edit menu of the Web Sharing
       control panel.

   About your IP address and domain name: Your Web server is identified on
   the network by its IP address. Once Web Sharing is turned on, the IP
   address appears in the Web Identity section of the control panel. Make
   a note of this address; if you have a domain name, it is displayed in
   addition to the IP address. (An IP address is always a set of numerals,
   separated by periods. A domain name is text.)

   Examples of the IP address and domain name for a server are:

     http://130.43.2.2/
     [example using IP address]

     http://yourserver.yourcompany.com/
     [example using domain name]

   Tip: You can also copy the address by choosing Copy My Address from the
   control panel's Edit menu, and you can paste the address into any
   document.

   Important: If you assign an IP address to your server as part of
   configuring the TCP/IP connection, use only a standard IP address. Some
   IP addresses ("0.0.0.0" or "1.1.1.1," for example) are reserved for
   network hardware such as routers and gateways. If you are not sure how
   to assign an IP address to your server, contact your network
   administrator.

   On your computer, you can specify a folder other than Web Pages (the
   default) as your server, change to a different home page or select no
   home page (the default), and add or delete items in the server.

    Select a server folder

   To select a server folder, follow these steps.
    1. Open the Web Sharing control panel (in the Control Panels folder).
    2. In the Web Identity section of the control panel, click the Select
       button to the right of Web Folder.
    3. Use the buttons and menus to locate the folder you want to use as
       your Web server and click its name.
    4. With the folder's name selected, click the Select button at the
       bottom of the dialog box.

   The control panel now lists your hard disk's name and the folder you
   selected as the server.

   When you change the Web server folder, you need to select a new home
   page. If you don't select a home page, visitors to your server will see
   a list of items in the server folder.

   Note: When you select a folder as the Web folder, Personal Web Sharing
   creates a folder in it (PNFIconGraphics) to hold icons. A copy of the
   icon folder is created in each Web folder you select.

    Select a home page

    1. Open the Web Sharing control panel (in the Control Panels folder).
    2. In the Web Identity section of the Web Sharing control panel, click
       the Select button to the right of Home Page.
    3. In the dialog box that appears, select an item in the list and
       click Select, or click None if you want no home page specified.

   Note: If you select None, no home page will be displayed. Instead,
   people who visit your server will see a list of the folder's contents,
   similar to the Finder's list view of a window's contents. This built-in
   listing feature, called Personal NetFinder, can sort the list of items
   in the server folder by name, date, size, or kind of file.

   If you want to use a home page instead of the list view, you can select
   "Default.html" (in the Web Pages folder) as your home page. You can
   revise this page to include the information and links you want to share
   with visitors to your Web server.

   The control panel now lists the home page you selected.

   You can also create your own home page or locate an HTML document and
   drag it to the Web Pages folder. Then repeat the selection procedure.

   You can adapt the pages in the Sample Files & Templates folder,
   included with the server software, to start building your own library
   of Web content. If you can't locate the sample pages folder, open the
   WebScript document to start the Installer program, use the Custom
   Install option in the pop-up menu, select "Documentation Package", and
   click the "Install" button to install the sample files.

    Adding or removing items in the Web folder

   The folder you specify as your Web server is like any other folder. You
   can add items, remove items, and edit any of the folder's contents. You
   can control access to the folder and to other folders inside it by
   using the standard file sharing privileges (see the next section of
   these instructions).

   Important: Certain characters should not be used in document names on
   your Web server. Don't start a name with a period (.) or use a dollar
   sign ($) or slash (/) anywhere in a name; if you use these characters,
   a browser may not be able to locate or open the file.

    Controlling access to your server's content

   Once you specify a folder as your server and turn on Web Sharing, the
   items in that folder are available to anyone who connects to your
   server. The information is protected and can't be changed. You can add
   security to some or all of the server's contents by using the access
   privileges provided with Mac OS file sharing.

   For complete instructions on using file sharing and assigning access
   privileges, see the topics listed under "Sharing Files" in Mac OS Help.
   The list below summarizes these procedures.
    1. Turn on file sharing in the File Sharing control panel.
    2. Establish any special users and groups you want in the Users &
       Groups control panel.
    3. Share the Web server folder (by selecting it, choosing Sharing from
       Get Info popup in the File menu, and putting an X in the box
       labeled "Share this item and its contents")
    4. Share individual folder items in your server folder and assign
       access privileges to them by selecting each folder item and then
       using the Sharing command in the Get Info popup in the File menu.
    5. Select the "Use File Sharing to control user access" option in the
       Web Sharing control panel.

   Important: Once you use file sharing's access privileges for any items
   in your server folder, you must leave file sharing turned on. If you
   turn off file sharing, everyone who tries to connect to your server
   will be denied access. (As soon as you turn file sharing on, others
   will again be able to connect and the security you established through
   access privileges will be in effect.)

  Getting the most from your server

    Using the list view and toggling the list view on and off

   You can set up your server so that visitors always see the Personal
   NetFinder (PNF) list view--the default setting for Personal Web
   Sharing. If you want to keep your server primarily in PNF view, select
   None (rather than the name of a home page) in the Web Sharing control
   panel.

   Tip: You can give users of your server an easy way to switch to list
   view by including a link to PNF on your home page. Two examples of the
   link appear below. The first example shows the domain name of a server
   and the second example shows the IP address of the server. Either type
   of link will work (assuming that your server has a domain name, which
   you can obtain from the person who set up the TCP/IP network).

     http://yourserver.yourcompany.com/PNF:
     [example using domain name]

     http://130.43.2.2/PNF:
     [example using IP address]
     (Note that a colon is the last character in both examples.)

   Tip: If you want users to see a list of items in a single folder that's
   inside your Web server folder, you can create a link to that folder
   using the PNF view. This is a good way to limit access by preventing
   users from seeing all the items in your entire Web folder. (When the
   server's content is displayed by means of links from a home page, users
   see only the files that are linked to the home page.)

   Note: When you create a a PNF link to a subfolder in your Web folder,
   the subfolder's name should appear after the "PNF:" part of the
   address. The examples below show two correct versions of a link of this
   type and one incorrect version:

     http://yourserver.yourcompany.com/PNF:subfoldername/
     [example using domain name - correct format]

     http://130.43.2.2/PNF:subfoldername/
     [example using IP address - correct format]

     http://130.43.2.2/subfoldername/PNF:
     [example using IP address - incorrect format]

   Although "PNF:" can't appear after a subfolder name, you can use the
   address without "PNF:" and still link to a subfolder, with its contents
   displayed in list view. The example below shows this alternative
   format.

     http://130.43.2.2/subfoldername/
     [example using IP address, without "PNF:" - the subfolder contents
     are displayed in list view]

   Visitors can switch between home page and list view with the home page
   link and the Back and Forward buttons of their browser.

   Tip: If you want to present a list view of server items and a message
   or banner like that on many home pages, you can add a header or footer
   or both to Personal NetFinder. When you add files named
   "folder_header.html" and "folder_footer.html" to a server folder,
   Personal NetFinder reads the contents of those files and puts the text
   before or after the folder listing. When you add "text_header.html" and
   "text_footer.html" to a server folder, Personal NetFinder will read the
   contents and add them to the beginning and end of any SimpleText
   document that it translates into HTML.

   Note: When you create a header or footer file, that file must not have
   the standard HTML tags at the beginning ("<HTML>") or the end
   ("</HTML>").

   You can use this header and footer capability to display graphics,
   provide your own tool bar, include a link to your top-level web page,
   or whatever you choose to make your site better.

   Important: Remember that using the list view for your server allows
   everyone to see everything in the Web Pages folder. You can use file
   sharing privileges to allow or deny access to folders inside your
   server, however.

   Downloading files from the server

   Visitors to your Web server can download files from the server by
   dragging them to their desktop or hard disk. You can use this feature
   of the Web Sharing software to distribute documents to others who are
   connected to your server's network.

   To download a file, a visitor simply clicks it (in list view). An HTML
   or image file appears in the browser window. Applications are
   compressed (using binhex) before they are downloaded. Other files are
   usually copied, though some variations may occur, depending on how the
   MIME types are configured in Personal Web Sharing and in the visitor's
   browser.

   Visitors to your server can save a file by dragging it to their
   desktop.

   Note: When files are displayed as a list (PNF view), a visitor must
   drag the link (name of file), not the icon; otherwise, only the icon
   for that file will be copied.

   Editing and uploading files to the server

   If you use file sharing privileges to control access to the server and
   give guests or registered users write privileges, they can download a
   file, edit it, and copy the file back onto your Web server. The file's
   name must not be changed, however.

   The visitor's browser must support uploading of files.

   Improving server performance with increased memory allocation

   If many people are visiting your Web server, you may want to increase
   the amount of memory the software can use. This allows for efficient
   operation as people connect to your server and sample its contents.

   To increase the memory allocation, follow these steps.
    1. Open the Web Sharing control panel.
    2. Choose Preferences from the Edit menu.
    3. Click the Options tab.
    4. In the Memory Allocation section, choose a larger number from the
       pop-up menu.
    5. Click Save.

    Sharing files on a CD or other locked disk

   To assure that users can open and copy files on a locked disk, such as
   a CD, be sure to create an alias of the CD or disk and put that alias
   in your Web folder. If you choose the actual CD or locked disk as the
   Web folder, users who connect to your server will see an error message
   when they try to open some of the files on the CD or locked disk.

    Important file you should know about

   The Personal Web Sharing software recognizes a certain type of file
   that can make for efficient operation of your server.
     * If there is a file named "index.html" in the Web server folder,
       that file is automatically displayed as the home page when "None"
       is selected as the home page in the Web Sharing control panel.

   Quick access to Web Sharing with the Control Strip

   Personal Web Sharing includes a module for the Control Strip. Once the
   module is installed, you can use it to turn Web Sharing on or off, open
   the Web Sharing control panel, and check your server's IP address.

  Learning more about Web Sharing

   You can use the sample Web pages and templates provided with this
   software to fashion your own Web content. These files are in the Sample
   Files & Templates folder, which is inside the Web Sharing folder. (If
   you can't locate the sample files, use the Installer program's Custom
   Install option to install the "Documentation Package".) The folder also
   contains instructions and tips for using the sample files in the
   document "Using Sample FilesTemplates.htm."

   In addition, you can visit some of the many Web sites that offer great
   advice and examples for creating Web pages. Some of these useful sites
   are listed below; visit them to learn more about providing content for
   Mac OS Personal Web Sharing.

   Web design guidelines from Apple's Human Interface group: Excellent
   advice for planning Web content of any size or scope.

   HTML tutorials: A set of documents on various aspects of hypertext
   markup language (HTML).

   The Web Developer's Virtual Library: Depth and breadth about Web
   topics, standards, scripting languages and technologies, and much more.

   Yahoo Web design topic list: A rich set of resources for all aspects of
   Web design and related topics.

   Yale style guide for Web design: Comprehensive design information and
   resources.

  Troubleshooting

   - Others can't find my server on the network:
     * Make sure Web Sharing is turned on (in the Web Sharing control
       panel).
     * If your server is set to use file sharing privileges, make sure
       file sharing is turned on (in the File Sharing control panel).
       Important: If file sharing is not turned on and your server uses
       file sharing to provide access to visitors, no one (including you)
       will have access to the server.
     * If your server is set to use file sharing privileges, make sure the
       Web folder is shared (using the Sharing command in the File menu).
       Important: If your Web folder is not shared and your server uses
       file sharing to provide access to visitors, no one (including you)
       will have access to the server.
     * The TCP/IP connection may not be set up correctly--check with your
       network administrator if you need help.
     * Visitors may not be using the correct address for your server. Make
       sure they have the correct domain name or IP address.
     * Your server may be using a port number other than 80 (the default).
       Send others the complete address using Copy My Address in the Web
       Sharing control panel's Edit menu. (If the port number has been
       changed from 80, the new number appears at the end of the IP
       address.)
     * To ensure that the correct content is served, the Web Pages folder
       (or other server folder) should be located no more than five levels
       below the root level of the hard disk.
     * Every Personal Web Sharing server needs a unique assigned IP
       address. Do not use nonstandard IP addressing with your server.
       Some IP addresses ("0.0.0.0" or "1.1.1.1," for example) are
       reserved for network hardware such as routers and gateways. If you
       are not sure how to assign an IP address to your server, contact
       your network administrator.

   - Others report seeing a message that Authentication Failed when they
   try to view an item:
     * Make sure Web Sharing is turned on (in the Web Sharing control
       panel).
     * Make sure the server folder containing the desired item is shared.
     * Make sure that others have access privileges for the shared item.

   - I'm using FileMaker Pro on my server (or another Web server on my
   computer) and I see an error message related to that program:
     * FileMaker Pro has a dedicated port number. If you use FileMaker Pro
       with a server on your computer, use a different port number for
       your Personal Web Sharing server to avoid a conflict with the port
       number for FileMaker Pro. (You can't change the port number for
       FileMaker Pro.) Check the documentation for FileMaker Pro for more
       information about using this application with a Web server.
       Note: If you've changed the port number to a number other than 80,
       you can see the new number at the end of the address in the Web
       Sharing control panel.

   - Files on the server are not displayed as expected.
     * One of the MIME types may have been changed to include incorrect
       information. If you have the correct information, modify the MIME
       type that is causing a problem.
     * If you can't correct the problem by modifying an individual MIME
       type, you can restore the default set of MIME types supplied with
       Personal Web Sharing.

   Important: If you restore the default MIME types (by clicking the
   Defaults button), you will lose all new MIME types you've added and any
   modifications you're made to the original set. Any MIME types you've
   deleted from the original set will be restored.

   To restore the original set of MIME types, follow these steps.
    1. Open the Web Sharing control panel and choose Preferences from the
       Edit menu.
    2. Click the MIME Types tab (if necessary).
    3. Click Defaults.
       The original set of MIME types is restored.

   - An error message reports that the port is in use:
     * If you see a port-in-use error message, another application may be
       using the same port number as Personal Web Sharing. Change one of
       the port numbers. (Also see the item above about FileMaker Pro.)

   - I can't upload a file to the server.
     * If you can't upload, your browser may not support uploading files.
     * The file you want to upload may be an application, which can't be
       uploaded.
     * If you've changed the file name after downloading a file, the
       browser may not recognize the file it is trying to replace on the
       server. Change back to the original name.

   - The computer seems to "hang" when I turn on Web Sharing in the
   control panel, or when the computer is starting up with Web Sharing
   already turned on.
     * If your computer's TCP/IP configuration is set to acquire an
       address dynamically, Personal Web Sharing tries to get the address
       over the network. If the TCP/IP connection is not active or no
       address can be obtained, Personal Web Sharing continues to seek an
       address for up to 3 minutes.
     * To avoid this situation, do not turn on Web Sharing unless you
       already have an active TCP/IP connection.

   - My system locks up unexpectedly when the server is on.
     * If your computer is using OT/PPP 1.0, there is a known problem with
       Personal Web Sharing. Personal Web Sharing runs as a background
       application, which conflicts with the dialog box that PPP tries to
       display when reconnecting (if the connection has been broken). This
       can cause your system to crash. To work around this problem, turn
       off the automatic reconnect option in the PPP control panel.

   Follow these steps to turn off the automatic reconnect option:
    1. Open the PPP control panel.
    2. Click the Options button.
    3. Click the Connection tab.
    4. Click to remove the X from the box labeled "Connect automatically
       when starting TCP/IP applications" and click OK.
    5. Close the PPP control panel.

   - Others report slow performance of my server.
     * Some computers providing a server may experience slower performance
       overall during times of heavy activity on the Personal Web Sharing
       server over LocalTalk.

   - Visitors who use other types of computers or non-English system
   software report problems viewing some documents.
     * Personal Web Sharing allows you to publish documents across
       multiple platforms. Because character sets may differ from one
       platform to another, you may notice a difference in how data is
       displayed on some other types of computers on the network. To get a
       more accurate representation of HTML documents in a cross-platform
       environment, we recommend that you use Personal NetFinder to
       display the documents on your server.
     * File formats also vary from one type of computer to another in a
       cross-platform environment. Each computer on the network should
       have its browser's helper applications configured correctly for the
       types of files your server contains before connecting to your
       server.
     * Mac to Mac: If your server contains non-English-language pages, the
       client's browser should be set to the appropriate document encoding
       option. Please review your browser documentation for more
       information on document encoding.
     * Mac to non-Mac: If your server contains non-English-language pages,
       a non-Mac OS computer will encounter some incompatibilities. For
       example, character sets may differ from one type of computer to
       another.
     * Personal NetFinder displays header information in the language of
       the Finder (part of the system software) used by the server.

  Glossary

   action - the feature of Personal Web Sharing that allows the Web server
   to launch a Common Gateway Interface (CGI), Asynchronous CGI (ACGI), or
   other application.

   access privileges - part of Mac OS file sharing, in which settings are
   established for individual users, groups, and guests ("Everyone") that
   determine whether they can see or change content on a server.

   browser - the application that allows visitors to see the contents of
   the a Web server. Microsoft Explorer and Netscape Navigator are
   examples of browsers.

   CGI - Common Gateway Interface, an application that the server software
   launches, such as when the server displays a form that a visitor fills
   out and sends to a data storage area.

   domain name - the name associated with a Web site, ending with a suffix
   that identifies the type of content or organization it contains (such
   as "com" for commercial, "edu" for education, "gov" for government,
   "org" for nonprofit organization).

   Everyone - the category of access privileges for Mac OS file sharing
   that applies to guests (anyone not registered by name).

   File Sharing control panel - the control panel used to turn file
   sharing on or off.

   guest - anyone who connects to a server without supplying a name; guest
   access can be turned on or off as part of Mac OS file sharing.

   home page - the HTML document displayed when a visitor connects to a
   Web server.

   HTML - acronym for Hypertext Markup Language, a method for preparing
   text files so they can display content and link to other files on the
   World Wide Web.

   intranet - a network-based collection of Web servers and sites, usually
   concentrated within one company or other organization.

   Internet - the massive global assemblage of interconnected computers
   and communications hardware and software that links World Wide Web
   sites and other services, such as e-mail, discussion groups, and FTP
   servers.

   IP address - acronym for Internet Protocol, a specification for
   transfer of information across computer networks; the IP address, which
   identifies a specific computer, consists of a four-to-twelve-digit
   number separated into four sections by periods (for example,
   130.43.2.2)

   MIME type - information associated with a file that tells the server
   and the visitor's browser what kind of file they're looking at and what
   application is the right one to open the file. (Acronym for
   Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions,)

   network - an interconnected group of computers that use specialized
   software and hardware to share and transfer data.

   owner - in Mac OS file sharing, the person who controls a specific
   folder (such as the Web server when file sharing is in use).

   Personal NetFinder - a component of Personal Web Sharing that displays
   the content of a Web folder as a list.

   port - the address of the server on your computer; a browser uses the
   port to locate the server. By default, browsers look at port 80 for a
   Web server.

   registered user - in Mac OS file sharing, the name of a person who has
   access privileges associated with that name.

   SimpleText - a simple text-processing application supplied with Mac OS
   computers that is used to view and save HTML files from a Web server.

   TCP - acronym for Transfer Control Protocol, a specification for data
   transfer over the Internet.

   URL - acronym for Uniform Resource Locator, the "address" or location
   of a Web site.

   Users & Groups control panel - in Mac OS file sharing, the control
   panel used to specify registered users, groups, and guests.

   Web page - any HTML document on a Web server.

   Web server - a computer that contains software to share HTML and other
   files by means of the Internet (or on an intranet).

   Web Sharing control panel - the server software for Personal Web
   Sharing.

   Web site - a collection of HTML files and other content that visitors
   access by means of a URL.
     __________________________________________________________________

                            [Top of Page] [Apple]

             © 1997, 1998 Apple Computer. All rights reserved.
     Mac and the Mac OS logo are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. used
                               under license.
