http://www.sfablueprint.ed.gov/pdf/Mb_ch4.pdf

   A. Chapter Overview The main focus of this chapter is an SFA Level I
   and II Modernization Architecture that fits into the Modernization
   Blueprint Framework illustrated in Figure IV.A-1. Levels I and II
   describe the target architecture for the SFA modernization plan. Within
   this chapter, business process requirements identified in Chapter III
   were evaluated to establish modernization architecture process flows
   and supporting business systems at Level I. Business subprocess
   requirements from Chapter III were evaluated to establish modernization
   architecture subprocess flows and subsystems at Level II.
   7KLVÃFKDSWHUÃGHVFULEHVÃWKH 0RGHUQL]DWLRQÃ$UFKLWHFWXUH Modernization
   Modernization Modernization Requirements Architecture Sequencing Plan
   Process Technical Business Process Process Program System Level I
   Requirements Flows Systems Sequencing Subprocess Business Subprocess
   Subsystems Subsystem Level II Flows Requirements Sequencing Level III
   Subrelease Subrelease Subrelease Requirements Design Planning Level IV
   CI CI CI Development Requirements Design Planning 10044162-026 Figure
   IV.A-1. Modernization Blueprint Framework The Modernization
   Architecture is decomposed into two components at Levels I and II: the
   Business Process Architecture and the Technical Architecture. These
   provide a target technical architecture from which the enterprise can
   build an information environment that addresses its long-term needs.
   The Business Process Architecture (Section B) outlines Level I and II
   business processes/subprocesses performed by the enterprise and the
   data required to support the processes. This architecture is a
   preliminary, essential element for requirements management and for the
   conceptualization, development, and deployment of business
   applications. The data at Levels I and II of the architecture are
   expressed in terms of subject areas and information flows. Subject
   areas are groupings of related data that capture basic enterprise
   business rules. They represent an integrated view of data required to
   support the enterprise, independent of current or future organizational
   structures, business July 15, 2000 Page IV.A-1 applications and
   technical implementation. These are often represented in enterprise
   models that are used to manage data standardization. The Technical
   Architecture (Sections C through E) is composed of a Business Systems
   Architecture, a Target Technical Architecture, and a Privacy
   Architecture. ! The Business Systems Architecture (Section C) is a
   high-level initial identification of the business systems to be
   developed. It identifies business systems (Level I) and subsystems
   (Level II), their databases and external interfaces. It includes a
   high-level description of each system/subsystem's capabilities and
   traces the descriptions to the requirements in Chapter III. ! The
   Target Technical Architecture (Section D) describes key technical
   elements (e.g., access methods, hardware, software, communications,
   security) that were considered in implementing the Business System
   Architecture. The Target Technical Architecture is decomposed into
   Levels I and II Target Technical Architectures. The Level I Target
   Technical Architecture describes an overall technical architecture at
   the system level. The Level II Target Technical Architecture explains
   the application of some key technical elements to each subsystem. ! The
   Privacy Architecture (Section E) provides a concept for implementing
   security that addresses major privacy concerns, such as sender
   authentication message data integrity and customer confidentiality,
   inherent in the modernized architecture. Section F of this chapter
   contains Level III design statements and specifications for five
   selected projects that could be considered candidates for delivery as
   part of subrelease 1 of the modernization architecture implementation.
   Sections G, H, I, J, K, and L of this chapter briefly describe
   recommended approaches to enterprise requirements management,
   application development, enterprise model management, configuration
   management, system integration and testing, deployment, and post
   deployment maintenance that can be used to guide SFA in its transition
   to a modernized enterprise architecture. ! Section G describes a
   requirements management approach that captures requirements statements
   in a requirements database. The database is used to ensure that all
   requirements are implemented in a system, and to produce a requirements
   traceability document showing the implementation of requirements in
   every phase of the systems development lifecycle. ! Section H describes
   an approach to Rapid Application Prototyping/Rapid Application
   Development (RAP/RAD) using reusable system components (common logic
   that can be reused by multiple applications to standardize business
   processes, calculations, etc.). It includes a description of how
   reusable components are conceptualized, developed, and deployed across
   multiple systems to improve standardization and reduce the time and
   cost of development. This July 15, 2000 Page IV.A-2 section also
   describes the role of the Integration Services provided by the
   Enterprise Application Integration (EAI) toolset. ! Section I provides
   an overview of the SFA enterprise model management strategy. This
   strategy provides a mechanism for managing the data standardization
   process that will be used to assist SFA to move towards a more
   integrated environment. ! Section J describes an approach to
   configuration management that captures requirements statements in a
   requirements database. The database is used to ensure that all
   requirements are implemented in a system, and to produce a requirements
   traceability document showing the implementation of requirements in
   every phase of the systems development lifecycle. ! Section K describes
   an approach to system integration and testing that captures
   requirements statements in a requirements database. The database is
   used to ensure that all requirements are implemented in a system, and
   to produce a requirements traceability document showing the
   implementation of requirements in every phase of the systems
   development lifecycle. ! Section L describes an approach to deployment
   that captures requirements statements in a requirements database. The
   database is used to ensure that all requirements are implemented in a
   system, and to produce a requirements traceability document showing the
   implementation of requirements in every phase of the systems
   development lifecycle. Chapter Contents Page A. Chapter Overview IV.A-1
   B. SFA Business Process Architecture IV.B-1 B.1 Enterprise Conceptual
   Process Model IV.B-2 B.2 Level I SFA Enterprise Conceptual Data Model
   Subject IV.B-10 Areas B.3 Level I SFA Business Process Action Matrix
   IV.B-12 B.4 Level I Process Flows IV.B-13 B.5 Level II SFA Enterprise
   Conceptual Data Model  Subject IV.B-45 Areas B.6 Level II SFA Business
   Subprocess Action Matrix IV.B-50 B.7 Level II Subprocess Flows IV.B-53
   B.8 Subject Areas Mapped to Current Systems IV.B-176 C. SFA Business
   Systems Architecture IV.C-1 July 15, 2000 Page IV.A-3 Chapter Contents
   Page C.1 Level I SFA Enterprise Systems Architecture IV.C-1 C.2 Level
   II SFA Business Systems Architecture IV.C-16 D. SFA Target Technical
   Architecture IV.D-1 D.1 Overview IV.D-1 D.2 Level I SFA Target
   Technical Architecture IV.D-4 D.3 Level II Target Technical
   Architecture IV.D-12 E. SFA Privacy Architecture IV.E-1 F. Level III
   Design Specifications IV.F-1 F.1 SFA Release 1.0 Project Design
   Statements and IV.F-1 Specifications F.2 Ombudsman Case Tracking System
   IV.F-2 F.3 Links to Financial Planning Sites IV.F-6 F.4 FAFSA Web
   Updates IV.F-8 F.5 General Ledger Management IV.F-10 F.6 Digital IDs
   Registration IV.F-14 G. SFA Enterprise Requirements Management IV.G-1
   H. An Approach: Rapid Application Prototyping/Rapid IV.H-1 Application
   Development (RAP/RAD) I. SFA Enterprise Model Management IV.I-1 J. An
   Approach: Configuration Management IV.J-1 K. An Approach: System
   Integration and Testing IV.K-1 L. An Approach: Deployment IV.L-1 July
   15, 2000 Page IV.A-4 B. SFA Business Process Architecture The primary
   objective of the Business Process Architecture is to provide a
   high-level view of the Student Financial Aid areas of the Department of
   Education. This view encompasses both the functions performed and the
   data required to support the SFA mission. Other major objectives of the
   Business Process Architecture are: ! To build a high-level view of SFA
   business process activities, independent of organizational structure. !
   To build a high-level view of the inherent data structures required to
   support SFA. ! To gain insight into the support of data for activities.
   ! To identify probable SFA Business Process applications. The Business
   Process Architecture provides a stable model regardless of organization
   realignments. The robust nature of the Business Process Architecture is
   due to the functional view that it takes of the SFA processes and not
   an organizational view of the duties assigned to a particular office.
   The emphasis of the Business Process Architecture is identifying the
   "what" of SFA, not the "how". Because the Business Process Architecture
   reflects a stable model of SFA, development of information systems
   based upon such a model will provide greater stability and longevity
   than that of a diffused developmental approach lacking a coherent view
   of the underlying SFA activities. Analysis of interactions between the
   Business Process Architecture and organizational structure provides
   opportunities for integrated systems, but also emphasizes the
   requirements for control of privileged or restricted information.
   Through such a high-level view of the SFA processes, cohesive
   functional areas are defined which organize SFA processes into logical
   groupings. Each functional area has a set of highly related functions
   and information, which give it certain autonomy from other areas. By
   prioritizing the areas' criticality to the SFA continued operation,
   modernization projects can be sequenced appropriately. The Business
   Process Architecture ties future development efforts directly to the
   major functions and supporting information. The Business Process
   Architecture has modeled the SFA processes through the following
   components: ! Integrated SFA Process Model ! Level I Enterprise
   Conceptual Data Model-Subject Areas ! Level I Business Process Action
   Matrix ! Level I Process Flows ! Level II Enterprise Conceptual Data
   Model-Subject Areas ! Level II Business Subprocess Action Matrix !
   Level II Subprocess Flows ! Subject areas mapped to the current SFA
   systems July 15, 2000 Page V.B-1 B.1 Enterprise Conceptual Process
   Model The integrated SFA process model is established as part of the
   modernized business process architecture for the SFA enterprise. The
   high-level process model identifies, integrates, and decomposes various
   functions, and processes, as shown in Figure IV.B-1. Student Financial
   Aid Management (SFAM) The main function of SFAM is to perform all SFA
   business activities. It is comprised of five functions, which are
   Student Services, School Services, Financial Partner Services,
   Performance Management, and Enterprise Services. Student Services The
   Student Services function performs primary interactions with students.
   It provides students with convenient access to aid application
   information, forms, and account data. It facilitates coordination of
   relationships with lenders, schools, guarantors, state agencies, and
   SFA under one student master account, providing a consolidated view for
   each student to facilitate his or her interaction with education
   service providers. It provides links to financial planning sites that
   help students understand their financial needs for postsecondary
   education. Student Services provides debt management counseling to
   students to help them understand the overall impact of their debt on
   their future financial goals after completing their school education.
   Student Services targets markets and under-served markets to increase
   awareness of financial aid availability among youth, providing easy
   access to user-friendly application forms, just-in-time disbursement of
   funds and an efficient repayment process. The function is comprised of
   three major processes: Aid Awareness, Aid Application, and Loan
   Repayment. Aid Awareness The Aid Awareness process is part of the
   Student Services function that identifies and educates potential
   program participants, including students and their families. It
   provides financial aid information and guidance to assist in the
   postsecondary school planning and decision making process. This process
   includes the management of special SFA initiatives and may include
   future co-branding or sponsorship opportunities designed to reach the
   target market through popular media. The Aid Awareness process is
   comprised of five major subprocesses: Target Markets, Develop Awareness
   Programs, Execute Awareness, Provide Access to Financial Simulation and
   Modeling, and Monitor Program Effectiveness. July 15, 2000 Page V.B-2
   Student Financial Aid Management Student Services Aid Awareness Aid
   Application Loan Repayment School Services Program Eligibility for
   Schools Program Support for Schools Financial Transactions for Schools
   Aid Origination and Disbursement Financial Partner Services Program
   Eligibility for Financial Partners Program Support for Financial
   Partners Financial Transactions for Financial Partners Performance
   Management Customer Satisfaction Management Employee Satisfaction
   Management Financial Management Enterprise Services HR Management IT
   Management Facilities Management Contracts and Acquisitions
   10044162-40_v2 Figure IV.B-1. Integrated SFA Process Model July 15,
   2000 Page V.B-3 Aid Application The Aid Application process is part of
   the Student Services function that collects, organizes, and verifies
   application information. It is responsible for the design of the
   physical application form and assists in the creation of aid packages
   for schools and students. It enables potential students to apply
   through the communication medium of their choice, including the
   Internet (such as FAFSA on the Web) or traditional mail channels. It
   calculates and reports the participant's Expected Family Contribution
   (EFC) to schools who put together aid packages. It reports decisions on
   the acceptance or rejection of aid packages back to SFA. The process is
   comprised of five subprocesses: Design and Distribution of Application
   Forms, Manage Aid Applications, Obtain Eligibility Assessment
   Information, Assess Participant Eligibility, and Manage Aid Package.
   Loan Repayment The Loan Repayment process is part of the Student
   Services function for Direct Loans, this process offers exit
   counseling, collects money from borrowers who have entered into
   repayment, provides invoices, processes loan consolidation requests,
   and attempts collection on defaulted loans. It provides students with
   different methods through which loans can be paid. As borrowers enter
   repayment, the process designs repayment options that best suit them
   and the overall impact of their debt. Repayment plan options, and bill
   cycle date selections and changes can be made on the Web. It
   automatically monitors loans and identifies defaulted loans. It chooses
   how to deal with defaults (from wage garnishment to collection
   agencies). The Loan Repayment process manages consolidation loan
   information and originates consolidation loans upon receipt of borrower
   requests. The process is comprised of eleven subprocesses, which are
   Manage Repayment Counseling, Select Repayment Option, Process Billing
   Information, Process Loan Payments and Overpayments, Manage Aid Status,
   Track Borrowers, Assign Defaulted Loans, Manage Debt Collection, Manage
   Consolidation Loan Information, Originate Consolidated Loan, and Make
   Payments to Lenders. School Services The School Services function is
   one of the Student Financial Aid Management functions that manage the
   relationship with schools from schools initial and subsequent program
   eligibility through training and performance review. The function
   evaluates schools based on their effectiveness in managing Federal
   funds and achieving performance-based outcomes as defined by SFA. It
   provides other services that include financial transaction processing,
   training/education and program/eligibility reviews. The School Services
   function is comprised of four processes: Program Eligibility for
   Schools, Program Support for Schools, Financial Transactions for
   Schools, and Aid Origination and Disbursement. July 15, 2000 Page V.B-4
   Program Eligibility for Schools The Program Eligibility for Schools
   process is part of the School Services function that monitors
   eligibility requirements throughout a school's involvement with Title
   IV Aid programs. The process certifies schools for participation in
   Title IV programs, defines the scope of their participation, and
   discontinues eligibility, as needed. The Program Eligibility for
   Schools process is comprised of three subprocesses: Determine School
   Eligibility, Set Participation Parameters, and Discontinue Eligibility.
   Program Support for Schools The Program Support process is part of the
   School Services function that ensures that schools have the tools and
   assistance they need to effectively manage Title IV Aid programs. The
   process manages the relationship and exchange of information between
   SFA and Title IV schools. It provides training and technical support.
   It collects and maintains program information, which is then used to
   analyze school performance across a number of indicators, including
   financial, administrative and outcome-based measures. It also enables
   schools to access, manipulate and self-monitor their performance
   through the use of sophisticated technology tools that can reside on an
   aid administrator's desktop. The Program Support for Schools process is
   comprised of four subprocesses: Develop and Deliver Information,
   Training, and Technical Assistance; Maintain School and Program
   Information Status; Monitor School Performance; and Take Action on
   Performance. Financial Transactions for Schools The Financial
   Transactions for Schools process is part of School Services function
   that coordinates the execution of financial activities conducted at the
   school level versus the student level. It supports delivery of service
   to schools through the accurate, efficient processing of financial
   transactions. It performs necessary activities that include various
   adjustments, reimbursements, and closeout transactions needed to ensure
   SFA's integrated financial management system reflects accurate and
   complete financial data related to school programs. This process
   completes and tracks disbursement and reconciliation of funds to
   schools for Pell, Direct Loan and Campus- Based programs. The Financial
   Transactions for Schools process is comprised of three subprocesses:
   Allocate Funds and Allowances, Manage Authorizations, and Execute
   Financial Adjustments. Aid Origination and Disbursement The Aid
   Origination and Disbursement process is part of the School Services
   function that receives and checks the accuracy of data reported on the
   Common origination and disbursement record. It receives, stores, and
   distributes participant authorizations, authorizes payments to schools,
   and reconciles funds transmitted against disbursements and adjustments.
   Further, it tracks the enrollment status of all program July 15, 2000
   Page V.B-5 participants and forwards the information to lenders and
   guaranty agencies. The Aid Origination and Disbursement process is
   comprised of six subprocesses: Edit Common Records, Process Borrower
   Authorizations, Authorize Payments to Schools, Manage Lender
   Disbursement Information, Reconcile Drawdown, and Maintain Enrollment
   Status. Financial Partner Services The Financial Partners Services
   function is part of the Student Financial Aid Management function that
   supports lenders and guaranty agencies in their delivery of aid to
   students. It receives information from and provides information to aid
   organizations related to SFA programs and individual student
   participants. The activities performed by this function include
   training and education, eligibility processing, informational updates,
   financial transactions and program performance analysis and review. The
   Financial Partners Services function is comprised of three processes:
   Program Eligibility for Financial Partners, Program Support for
   Financial Partners, and Financial Transactions for Financial Partners.
   Program Eligibility for Financial Partners The Program Eligibility for
   Financial Partners process activates and deactivates eligibility for
   financial partners, namely lenders and guaranty agencies. It determines
   eligibility and manages state's applications for LEAPP (a Federal
   contributions program through the application receipt, processing, and
   decision-making process). The Program Eligibility for Financial
   Partners process is comprised of three subprocesses: Determine
   Financial Partner Eligibility, Manage State LEAPP Application, and
   Discontinue Financial Partner Eligibility. Program Support for
   Financial Partners The Program Support for Financial Partners process
   is part of the Financial Partner Services function that maintains and
   supports the financial partner in all aspects of the aid programs after
   a financial partner's eligibility has been determined. It provides
   technical assistance and guidance to institutions in program specifics
   and changes to program guidelines. It maintains and monitors
   performance data and reporting from the financial partners including
   information such as number and size of loans, and distribution of funds
   by school or region. The Program Support for Financial Partners process
   is comprised of five subprocesses: Develop and Deliver Information,
   Training, and Technical Assistance; Maintain Financial Partner
   Performance Data; Monitor Financial Partner Performance; Conduct
   Financial Partner Program Reviews; and Take Action on Performance. July
   15, 2000 Page V.B-6 Financial Transactions for Financial Partners The
   Financial Transactions for Financial Partners process is part of the
   Financial Partner Services function that manages the flow of funds
   between financial partners and SFA. It makes payments to lenders and
   guaranty agencies that may include reimbursements and special
   allowances. Additionally, the process manages the authorization process
   for LEAPP funds, keeping track of contribution levels for each state
   after the state has been accepted to the LEAPP program. The Financial
   Transactions for Financial Partners process is comprised of three
   subprocesses: Make Payments to Lenders, Make Payments to Guaranty
   Agencies, and Manage State LEAPP Authorization. Performance Management
   The Performance Management function is part of the Student Financial
   Aid Management function that collects and analyzes performance
   information, which is used by management to assess how well SFA is
   performing as a PBO, and the prioritization of improvement projects. It
   also provides a tool-set to link SFA's vision, strategy objectives, and
   key performance measures. The Performance Management function is
   comprised of three processes: Customer Satisfaction Management,
   Employee Satisfaction Management, and Financial Management. Customer
   Satisfaction Management The Customer Satisfaction Management process is
   part of the Performance Management function that focuses on the
   systematic, structured collection of information about customer/partner
   preferences and satisfaction. It sets periodic performance goals and
   develops objectives for achieving customer/partner satisfaction. The
   process collects data from various sources and rigorously analyzes them
   to produce trends, gaps, etc., throughout the year. By using this
   information, the process identifies necessary changes to processes,
   performance objectives and technology. It closely monitors and reports
   of customer/partner satisfaction information, which determine how well
   PBO's objectives are met for improving customer satisfaction. It gauges
   success toward realizing the goals of the modernization blueprint. The
   Customer Satisfaction Management process is comprised of six
   subprocesses: Objective Setting and Planning, Customer/Partner Data
   Gathering, Customer/Partner Information Analysis, Action Planning,
   Decision Making, and Customer/Partner Satisfaction Performance Feedback
   and Reporting. Employee Satisfaction Management The Employee
   Satisfaction Management process is part of the Performance Management
   function that executes SFA's PBO initiatives by focusing on
   employees-building their capabilities, motivating them, and providing
   long term growth opportunities to attract and retain them. It also
   focuses on building July 15, 2000 Page V.B-7 organizational capability
   through knowledge sharing. The Employee Satisfaction Management
   function is comprised of five subprocesses: Objective Setting and
   Planning, Employee Data Gathering, Employee Information Analysis,
   Action Planning and Decision-Making, and Feedback and Communication.
   Financial Management The Financial Management process is part of the
   Performance Management function that performs all the traditional
   accounting activities necessary to manage the flow of funds between
   students, SFA, schools, financial partners and other government
   agencies. The primary objective of this process is to define, establish
   and execute an integrated financial management system that manages the
   flow of financial information across all of SFA's information systems,
   in order to accomplish new PBO specific financial management process
   mandated by legislature. It produces reports that SFA management can
   use to monitor how well the SFA organization is performing relative to
   one of its three primary objectives: reducing the overall cost of
   student financial assistance. The Financial Management process is
   comprised of nine subprocesses: Core Financial System Management,
   General Ledger Management, Funds Management, Payment Management,
   Receipt Management, Cost Management, Financial Management Reporting,
   Loan Portfolio Management, and Budget Analysis and Development.
   Enterprise Services The Enterprise Services function is part of the
   Student Financial Aid Management function that primarily improves the
   way SFA manages its critical assets: people, technology, facilities,
   and its relationships with vendors. It performs Human Resources (HR)
   Management, Information Technologies (IT) Management, Facilities
   Management, and Contract and Acquisition Management across SFA's
   operation to provide a consolidated, channel-driven approach to support
   services. The function creates and delivers value for SFA and support
   processes in the business model by capitalizing on economies of scale,
   pooled expertise, reduced overhead, and program/system integration.
   Human Resource Management SFA is committed to building a strategic,
   best-in-business Human Resources capability that focuses on SFA's most
   important asset, its people. As a business enabler and strategic
   partner, Human Resources management will address SFA's critical people
   challenges: ! Aligning the organization and workforce with defined
   performance objectives ! Developing a workforce with the composition
   and competence required to perform July 15, 2000 Page V.B-8 !
   Supporting the workforce's ongoing performance efforts ! Reinforcing
   the workforce's efforts and performance results Ultimately, SFA Human
   Resources seeks to address its people challenges to improve the
   welfare, and morale of SFA employees, thereby contributing to a
   positive culture that promotes success and delivers results. IT
   Management The IT Management process is part of the Enterprise Services
   function that seeks to maximize returns on current and future
   investments in information technology. It enables SFA to prioritize
   investments, purchase the correct technology and operate and maintain
   its systems. In addition, the process ensures that SFA's systems have
   common standards, are secure, readily integrate and interface with
   channel partners, and keep pace with new technologies and technology
   requirements. It effectively improves efficiencies, reduces costs, and
   facilitates the easy access of information for SFA internal and
   external customers. The IT management process is comprised of ten
   subprocesses: IT Investment Management, IT Production and Maintenance,
   IT Systems Development Lifecycle IT Capacity Management and Performance
   Tuning, Systems Availability and Contingency Planning, Systems Security
   and Privacy, IT Standards and Methodology, IT Partner Interface
   Management, IT Configuration Management, and IT Quality Assurance.
   Facilities Management The Facilities Management process is part of the
   Enterprise Services function that coordinates the physical workplace
   ensuring that procedures are fixed and that mobile assets are
   inventoried, insured, and continually meet or exceed code. The process
   strives to improve the comfort, welfare, and morale of SFA employees
   and reduce SFA costs through decreases in fraud and waste while
   promoting an environmentally friendly workplace. The Facilities
   Management process is comprised of seven subprocesses: Equipment
   Investment, Leasing, and Disposal; Space Planning and Management;
   Safety and Security; Telecommunications; Asset and Inventory
   Management; Ongoing Facilities Maintenance; and Supervision of Business
   Services. Contracts and Acquisition Management The Contract and
   Acquisition Management process is part of the Enterprise Services
   function that identifies, selects, and manages external contractors who
   supply goods and services to SFA. It establishes partnerships with
   contractors and suppliers to provide high-value goods and services that
   can be used to supplement or substitute existing roles and capabilities
   critical to operating the business. Mainly, the function provides SFA
   access to public and private best practice and subject matter expertise
   in cost reduction and improved service levels for both internal and
   external customers. The Contract and Acquisition Management function is
   comprised of five subprocesses: Need Based Planning, Request for
   Proposal (RFP) Creation and Issue, Source Selection and Evaluation,
   Contract Management, and Policy Analysis and Innovation. July 15, 2000
   Page V.B-9 B.2 Level I SFA Enterprise Conceptual Data Model  Subject
   Areas A subject area is a logical grouping of similar, related data
   that supports a business area. Subject areas are often depicted
   graphically in a data model. Subject areas may contain lower-level
   subject areas that further group similar data. During analysis, subject
   areas are refined to show the entity types (data structures) that store
   specific types of data. An entity type is a person, place, thing,
   concept or event that the enterprise has interests in. Entity types are
   identified at the lowest level subject area of the Levels III and IV
   architecture. Level I of the architecture contains 10 high-level
   conceptual subject areas required to support the SFA enterprise. Figure
   IV.B-2 shows a high-level conceptual data model of these subject areas
   (indicated by the shaded boxes) and relationships between the subject
   areas (indicated by a line between two shaded boxes). In this high
   level, conceptual model, a relationship line indicates that one or more
   entity types within one subject area relate to one or more entity types
   within another. The Level I subject areas are described below. These
   subject areas conceptually contain standardized data objects,
   lower-level subject areas, entity types, characteristics of the entity
   type, and relationships used in support of SFA business processes.
   Standardized data is generalized to meet the needs of the enterprise.
   1. Student Services. This subject area includes standardized data
   objects that support aid applications, aid awards, and loan repayments.
   2. School Services. This subject area includes standardized data
   objects for school eligibility services, school program support
   services, and aid origination and disbursement. 3. Financial Partner
   Services. This subject area includes standardized data objects that are
   used to provide eligibility and program support services to financial
   partners. 4. Enterprise Performance Data. This subject area includes
   standardized data objects that support the collection and analysis of
   customer satisfaction data, employee satisfaction data, and performance
   metrics on key SFA business processes. 5. Enterprise Services. This
   subject area includes standardized data objects pertaining to human
   resources, information technology services, facilities, contracts, and
   acquisitions. 6. Participants. This subject area includes standardized
   data objects on members of the public who have expressed an interest in
   participating in an SFA program. Examples include applicants,
   borrowers, potential students, students, and parents. July 15, 2000
   Page V.B-10 Financial Student School Enterprise Institution Services
   Services Services Services Aid Program Enterprise Activities
   Performance Data 1 Aid Enterprise Participants Schools Organizations
   Financial Services -521_V 10044162 Figure IV.B-2. SFA Enterprise
   Conceptual Data Model (Level I) 7. Schools. This subject area includes
   standardized data objects about educational and vocational institutions
   that have expressed an interest in or have participated in an SFA
   program. For example, it includes information on school characteristics
   (e.g., school calendar, FISAP data, open/closed status) and school
   ownership. 8. Aid Organizations. This subject area includes
   standardized data objects about organizations that are related to the
   delivery of student financial aid, including lenders, guaranty
   agencies, collection agencies, and other government agencies such as
   IRS and DOJ. 9. Aid Program Activities. This subject area includes
   standardized data objects that support aid awareness services and the
   development of aid programs. 10. Enterprise Financial Services. This
   subject area includes standardized data objects about various financial
   activities that include managing the flow of funds between students,
   SFA, schools, financial partners and other government agencies,
   managing consumer loans, and financial management reporting. July 15,
   2000 Page V.B-11 B.3 Level I SFA Business Process Action Matrix The SFA
   business process actions explain interaction between business processes
   that record what the SFA business does, and subject areas that describe
   the things of interest to the business and the relationships between
   them. Figure IV-B.3 indicates the impact of processes on related data
   in various subject areas. High-level subject areas are displayed down
   the side (labeling the rows); high-level processes are shown across the
   top (labeling the columns). The intersection of a process and a subject
   area indicates that a process has some impact on the data contained in
   the subject area. There are four possible impacts a process can have on
   data: the process can cause some information to be created, read (to
   provide needed information to the process), updated, or deleted. Thus,
   ! A "C" indicates the process could cause some new information in that
   subject area to be created (recorded for the first time). ! An "R"
   indicates the process may need information from that subject area to
   complete an action. ! A "U" indicates the process could cause some
   existing information in that subject area to be updated (changes to
   existing data). ! A "D" indicates the process could cause some
   information in that subject area to be deleted. Financial Student
   School Partner Performance Enterprise Services Services Services
   Management Services Student Services C, R, U, D R School Services R,U
   C, R, U, D R Financial Partner R, U C, R, U, D R Services Enterprise
   Performance C, R, U, D R Data Enterprise Services R, U C, R, U, D
   Participants C, R, U, D Schools R, U C, R, U, D Aid Organizations R C,
   R, U, D Aid Program Activities C, R, U, D R R Enterprise Financial C,
   R, U, D C, R, U, D C, R, U, D C, R, U, D C, R, U, D Services Figure
   IV.B-3. SFA Business Process Action Matrix (Level I) July 15, 2000 Page
   V.B-12 B.4 Level I Process Flows The modernized SFAM information
   architecture establishes various internal and external business
   interactions performed by external agents of the SFA business channels,
   SFA internals, and supporting data for all process activities. The
   business process flows at Level I establish SFA business interactions
   and their relationships with external agents, such as aid
   organizations, schools, and students. The business interactions do not
   necessarily translate into physical interfaces in the technical
   architecture but only depict the logical processing flow among the
   processes from a business perspective at the Level I architecture. In
   all cases, the process flows depicted have been derived from the
   business requirements stated in Chapter III. As the business
   requirements are refined, the process flows will reflect this in
   subsequent releases. Student Services Aid Awareness Process Flow The
   process flow illustrated in Figure IV.B-4 depicts business interactions
   performed by external agents of the SFA business channels, SFA
   internals, and supporting data within the Aid Awareness process.
   Targets Markets through analysis of data received from students,
   families, and schools. For each market, SFA develops Awareness Programs
   and tailors its message to the requirements of each segment. SFA then
   executes Awareness Programs. Execution involves input from schools and
   lenders as partners in distributing SFA's message, and reaches out to
   students and their families either directly or through intermediaries.
   Aid Awareness provides access to financial simulation and modeling both
   through its Web site (for students and families with Web access) and
   via telephone for students and families without Web access. For all
   subprocesses in the process, Aid Awareness Monitors Program
   Effectiveness both directly through measurement of key performance
   criteria and through feedback from students, schools, and lenders. July
   15, 2000 Page V.B-13 Target Facilitate Access to Federal 1, 3 15
   Markets Financial Simulation Agencies 2 AW-01 Modeling AW-04 16 Execute
   Aid 10 Awareness 13 Aid Recipient Programs Recipient AW-03 9 4 6
   Develop Monitor Aid 7 Awareness 12 Program 18 Organization Programs
   Effectiveness AW-02 AW-05 14 Federal 8 5 1117 Agencies Integrated
   10044162-408_v2 SFA Enterprise Databases Aid Awareness Services Aid
   Organizations Figure IV.B-4. Aid Awareness Process Flow (1 of 2) July
   15, 2000 Page V.B-14 01 Grant reports and commissioned survey data 02
   Aid survey data 03 Census data 04 Details about each segment of the
   markets 05 Target market profile, AID products 06 Application data and
   performance data 07 Aid programs, policies, regulations, and
   performance matrix 08 Aid Awareness performance data and program data
   09 Awareness programs 10 Aid Awareness program details 11 Aid Awareness
   data 12 Awareness program details 13 Aid Awareness information and
   tools through mail, fax, electronic media, Web sites, video/TV,
   conferences/teleconferences, etc. 14 Products and publications media
   relations 15 Long term debt management plan ppt 16 Long term debt
   management plan, and simulations of possible financial aid packages
   8a.40 and financial options 2- 17 Program effectiveness data 18 Program
   effectiveness details 1004416 Figure IV.B-4. Aid Awareness Process Flow
   (2 of 2) July 15, 2000 Page V.B-15 Aid Application Process Flow The
   process flow illustrated in Figure IV.B-5 depicts business interactions
   performed by external agents of the SFA business channels, SFA
   internals, and supporting data within the Aid Application process. The
   first step in the Aid Application Process is the efficient collection
   of information through the Design and Distribution of Application
   Forms. SFA is committed to designing and providing access to forms
   across a variety of distribution channels. As this information comes
   back, SFA will provide an organized single point of contact through
   which this information can be accessed in Manage Application. SFA will
   serve as a central administrator in obtaining Eligibility Assessment
   Information for the student's Aid Application needs, performing a range
   of duties, from holding student authorizations for access to classified
   information, to generating promissory notes from a lender of the
   student's choice. Once SFA has all the necessary information to Assess
   Participant Eligibility, SFA will calculate the Estimated Family
   Contribution (EFC) for the potential student. This eligibility
   determination is made available to schools that the student specifies,
   other grant agencies, and federal aid organizations. Finally, in Manage
   Aid Package, SFA supports the school's creation of the aid package by
   providing information to both schools and students. Loan Repayment
   Process Flow The process flow illustrated in Figure IV.B-6 depicts
   business interactions performed by external agents of the SFA business
   channels, SFA internals, and supporting data within the Loan Repayment
   process. The Loan Repayment process initiates the repayment option
   based on debt counseling activities. This option selection then drives
   processing of billing information and actual processing of payments for
   Direct Loans and Overpayments. The output of these steps will be used
   to update and manage status. The standard loan repayment process will
   often trigger debt (Debt Collection and Direct Loan Consolidation)
   collection, or loan consolidation activities. These are in effect,
   exception processes to the loan repayment process flow. July 15, 2000
   Page V.B-16 14 Obtain 21 Eligibility Lenders 12 Assessment Information
   AA-03 State Agencies 15 Federal Agencies 17 7 Participants Manage
   Assess Application 18 Participant Eligibility 21 Scholarship AA-02
   AA-04 Agencies 8 Schools 13 20 Participants ED Manage Aid 21 OMB 22
   Package 14 Schools AA-05 22 11 16 10 23 19 9 Integrated OMB SFA
   Enterprise Databases 5 10044162-215_v2 4 Design and Aid 2 Aid
   Distribution of 6 Participants 3 Applications Programs 1 Application
   Forms AA-01 Schools Aid Organizations Figure IV.B-5. Aid Application
   Process Flow (1 of 2) July 15, 2000 Page V.B-17 01 User suggestions 02
   Policy changes 03 ED change requests 04 OMB change requests 05 Approval
   details 06 Electronic forms 07 Application data, parental data and
   signature, FAFSA/corrections/renewal on Web, paper renewals and
   corrections, master promissory notes for Plus and Stafford loans, Ed
   Express applications/corrections 08 The Financial Aid package 09 PIN
   information to account holder and PIN authentication to OSFA systems
   and SAM 10 Aid application data, loan computations, SSA authentication,
   new application record for renewal applications, promissory note 11 PIN
   authentication 12 Aid application 13 Lender list, promissory note,
   prior year aid application, financial aid process 14 Notification of
   FFELP request, promissory notes 15 Student record and request for
   information; annotated student record in response to request 16 Student
   record comparisons 17 Eligibility information details 18 Aid award and
   funding information 19 Eligibility determination 20 Student aid report
   21 Eligibility determination results 22 Row aid award information 23
   Aid award details 10044162-215A.ppt Figure IV.B-5. Aid Application
   Process Flow (2 of 2) July 15, 2000 Page V.B-18 Manage 3 1 Repayment 2
   11 Counseling Borrowers 7 42 Borrowers LR-01 8 Select 6 Federal 9
   Repayment Lenders 46 Agencies 5 Option LR-02 Federal Lenders Process 10
   Agencies 4 Billing 41 Information LR-05 Schools 16 Schools 12 Process
   Loan 13 15 Payment 20 14 and Loan Overpayment LR-04 13 Guaranty
   Guaranty 23 Agencies 21 Agencies 22 Manage 23 17 20 20 Aid 19 Status
   LR-03 Credit Bureau 24 24 24 Collection 26 Track 24 27 Agencies
   Borrower State LR-09 Agencies 44 32 33 Assign 34 37 36 Defaulted
   Collection Loan Manage Agencies LR-10 Consolidation 34 Loan 36
   Information 28 LR-07 Integrated Legal 37 36 SFA Enterprise Databases 36
   Counsel Process 31 Manage 36 39 38 Consolidated Debt Loan Loan
   Collection Repayments LR-16 LR-12 Employer 36 38 Participants Schools
   Aid 30 Programs 10044162-439_v2 Figure IV.B-6. Loan Repayment Process
   Flow (1 of 2) July 15, 2000 Page V.B-19 01 Repayment option and amount
   of outstanding debt 02 Repayment terms and conditions 03 Repayment
   counseling details 04 Repayment option selections 05 Income
   verification 06 Debt collection recalculations, loan details 07
   Borrower details 08 Debt advice 09 Change requests to billing date 10
   Payment/agreement details 11 Financial statements 12 Loan payment 13
   Loan balance details 14 Loan/grant balance details 15 Post payments 16
   Refunds, tax forms 17 Enrollment status change requests 18
   Deferment/and or forbearance notification, lender service changes 19
   Active military status/unemployment status 20 Loan aid status updates,
   deferment qualification, loan discharges, reinstatements 21
   Deferment/default status details 22 Deferment and/or forbearance loan
   holders details 23 Default details 24 Borrower details 25 Defaulted
   loan and grant details 26 Defaulted loan (FFELP) details 27 Defaulted
   loan (FISL) details 28 Collection details 29 Loan collection
   recommendations 30 Wage collection details 31 Delinquent loan referral
   details 32 Employment/income/refund details 33 Default notification
   details 34 Debt details 35 Income refund details 36 Loan consolidation
   details 37 Loan consolidation and eligibility details 38 Loan
   verification details 39 Credit check details 10044162-439A Figure
   IV.B-6. Loan Repayment Process Flow (2 of 2) July 15, 2000 Page V.B-20
   School Services Program Eligibility for Schools Process Flow The
   process flow illustrated in Figure IV.B-7 depicts business interactions
   performed by external agents of the SFA business channels, SFA
   internals, and supporting data within the Program Eligibility for
   Schools process. The majority of analysis is conducted in Determine
   School Eligibility where information is collected from a number of
   sources to complete certification or re-certification of a school. Set
   Participation Parameters receives inputs from Determine School
   Eligibility and Guaranty Agencies to determine specific participation
   levels for the school. If SFA decides that a school may no longer
   participate in Title IV programs, Discontinue Eligibility is triggered
   and executes the appropriate administrative procedures and financial
   transactions. This step may also be triggered directly by the school
   due to school closure or other voluntary action. Discontinue
   Eligibility notifies schools, students and Guaranty Agencies of the
   discontinuance and associated stop payments on funds. Aid Origination
   and Disbursement Process Flow The process flow illustrated in Figure
   IV.B-8 depicts business interactions performed by external agents of
   the SFA business channels, SFA internals, and supporting data within
   the Aid Origination and Disbursement process. Aid Origination and
   Disbursement records received by SFA are edit checked. Then
   authorizations from the student are processed and disbursements are
   authorized. Finally, reconciliation is performed and enrollment status
   is maintained. Program Support for Schools Process Flow The process
   flow illustrated in Figure IV.B-9 depicts business interactions
   performed by external agents of the SFA business channels, SFA
   internals, and supporting data within the Program Support for Schools
   process. The majority of training and guidance support efforts (Develop
   and Deliver Information, Training and Technical Assistance) will be
   provided directly to schools in the form of technical assistance,
   regulatory interpretation and coordination of planning efforts. These
   activities will feed the collection and maintenance of data internal
   and external to SFA (Maintain School and Program Information and
   Status). This information drives the monitoring of school performance
   (Monitor School Performance) which interfaces with schools, guaranty
   agencies and other governmental organizations. Monitor School
   Performance July 15, 2000 Page V.B-21 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 Schools
   Determine 18 Set Participation School Parameters External 11
   Eligibility 7 SS-02 Authentication SS-01 Sources 86910 16 3 ED ED 11,
   13 16 16, 15 Schools Third Party 14, 16 Discontinue Auditors
   Eligibility SS-03 External 12 19 Authentication Sources Accreditation
   Board 17 17 16 Guaranty Agencies Integrated SFA Enterprise Guaranty
   Databases 10044162-385_v2 Agencies Licensing Financial Agencies
   Services Eligibility Aid Services Programs 01 School application for
   eligibility or recertification 11 PIN/OPE ID 02 Signed PPAs 12
   Approval/disapproval of eligibility 03 Change of ownership 13 Program
   acceptance package 04 Signed letters of credit 14 Order to discontinue
   eligibility 05 School certification application data 15 Start/stop
   payment order 06 Accreditation Information 16 School participation
   status 07 Request for letters of credit 17 Eligibility details 08 3rd
   party audit information 18 School parameter details 09 Review of
   school/school audit data 19 Participation details 10 Licensing
   information Figure IV.B-7. Program Eligibility for Schools Process Flow
   July 15, 2000 Page V.B-22 Edit 9 2 Common State Schools 2 Origination
   Agencies Records OD-01 8 Aid 18 Participants Organization Edit 3 Common
   Disbursement 3 Record OD-02 18 Aid Borrowers 21 Organizations 6 Process
   6 Borrower 19 Authorizations 8 Schools Lenders 7 OD-03 21 Financial 4
   12 Authorize Borrowers 4 Institutions Payment to 10044162-436_v2
   Schools OD-04 4 11 7 10 Integrated SFA Enterprise Databases Aid
   Origination and Disbursements Participants Schools Aid Organizations
   Figure IV.B-8. Aid Origination and Disbursement Process Flow (1 of 3)
   This figure does not reflect changes based upon the Common Origination
   and Disbursement Process July 15, 2000 Page V.B-23 4 State Schools
   Manage Agencies Lender Disbursement 17 Information 7 OD-16 Lenders 17
   Guaranty Agencies Maintain 1 Enrollment 17 Status Lenders OD-09 1 14 15
   Schools 16 10044162-437_v2 5 Reconcile 5 Drawdown OD-06 5 Integrated
   SFA Enterprise Databases Aid Origination and Disbursements Participants
   Schools Aid Organizations Figure IV.B-8. Aid Origination and
   Disbursement Process Flow (2 of 3) This figure does not reflect changes
   based upon the Common Origination and Disbursement Process July 15,
   2000 Page V.B-24 01 Enrollment data 02 Disbursement adjustments and
   cancellation data 03 Disbursement records 04 Origination and
   disbursement records 05 Drawdown details 06 Long term debt management
   07 Borrower authorization 08 Edited disbursement records 09
   Transmitting organization records 10 Updated disbursement record 11
   Long term debt planning 12 Debt management plan 13 Fund disbursement
   data 14 Notification for fund disbursement authorization 15 Edited
   origination and disbursement 16 Student disbursement rosters 17
   Enrollment status 18 Edited results 19 Credit check 20 Data for ACH
   organizations 21 Schedule payment details 10044162-438 Figure IV.B-8.
   Aid Origination and Disbursement Process Flow (3 of 3) This figure does
   not reflect changes based upon the Common Origination and Disbursement
   Process July 15, 2000 Page V.B-25 Develop and 3 General 8 1 Deliver
   Training Public and Technical 9 Schools 2 Assistance 10 SS-04 2
   Maintain School 6, 7 and Program 5 Schools Information and General
   Status Public SS-05 4 Guaranty 2 9 9 Guaranty Agencies 6, 7 Agencies 10
   9 Monitor School 6 Performance Federal Federal, SS-06 9 State, Local
   State, Local Agencies 6, 7 10 Agencies 9 10044162-501 _v2 10
   Participants 6, 7 Take Action on 10 Performance SS-07 2 Integrated SFA
   Enterprise Databases 7 Schools Program Participants Support Services
   Aid Programs 01 School performance details request 02 Service delivery
   details 03 Training programs 04 Service delivery action plans 05 School
   performance report 06 FISAD details 07 School closure details 08 School
   directing 09 School performance details 10 Performance actions Figure
   IV.B-9. Program Support for Schools Process Flow July 15, 2000 Page
   V.B-26 also provides performance analysis information back to students
   as needed. The final step in the Program Support process is to Take
   Action on Performance. Actions typically have a direct impact on
   schools but may require exchange of information and decisions with
   guarantors and other agencies as depicted by the flow. Financial
   Transactions for Schools Process Flow The process flow illustrated in
   Figure IV.B-10 depicts business interactions performed by external
   agents of the SFA business channels, SFA internals, and supporting data
   within the Financial Transaction for School process. The flow diagram
   describes the major steps that comprise Financial Transactions.
   Allocate Funds and Allowances determines the appropriate allocation
   level and supports disbursement of funds to schools for all
   Campus-Based programs. Manage Authorizations executes similar
   activities to set and track authorization levels for Pell Grant
   funding. These steps feed the Execute Financial Adjustments step, which
   manages cancellations, reimbursements, annual accounting closeouts and
   other adjustments to reconcile accounts for Pell and Campus-Based
   programs. Financial Partners Program Eligibility for Financial Partners
   Process Flow The process flow illustrated in Figure IV.B-11 depicts
   business interactions performed by external agents of the SFA business
   channels, SFA internals, and supporting data within the Program
   Eligibility for Financial Partners process. SFA receives information
   and qualifications from Lenders and Guaranty agencies that initiate the
   eligibility process. This data is used to Determine Financial Partner
   Eligibility. The Second Subprocess Manage State LEAPP Applications
   manages the applications for LEAPP funds. Finally, SFA may Discontinue
   Financial Partner Eligibility in the event that a lender's request to
   leave the program is received by SFA, or if adverse reporting data
   regarding a lender's financial wherewithal is received. Discontinuance
   decisions are communicated both to the lender and to other Government
   agencies. Program Support for Financial Partners Process Flow The
   process flow illustrated in Figure IV.B-12 depicts business
   interactions performed by external agents of the SFA business channels,
   SFA internals, and supporting data within the Program Support for
   Financial Partners process. Information and advice in Provide Technical
   Assistance and Guidance flow from SFA to lenders and Guaranty Agencies.
   Maintain Financial Partner Performance Data receives and stores data
   from lenders, guaranty agencies, and other Government Agencies. This
   July 15, 2000 Page V.B-27 Allocate Funds (Campus-Based) 3 1 and
   Allowances 3 Schools Schools 2 (Pell and Campus-Based) 5 SS-08
   10044162-504 _v2 4 ED Manage Authorizations (Pell) SS-09 Execute 1
   Financial Adjustments SS-10 5 6 7 Integrated SFA Enterprise Databases
   Participants Schools Aid Programs 01 Drawdown requests, Perkins loan
   cancellations 02 Low-income school information details 03 Notification
   details 04 Drawdown details 05 Financial statements 06 Loan
   authorizations 07 Fund and allowance details Figure IV.B-10. Financial
   Transactions for School Process Flow July 15, 2000 Page V.B-28 Manage
   State State Grant 10 LEAPP 11 State Grant Agencies Authorization
   Agencies (FI-12) 1, 2 3 Lenders AFMS Determine Financial Partner
   Eligibility 2, 4 9 Guaranty (FI-01) Lenders 5 Agencies 8 6, 7
   10044162-388_v2 Discontinue Financial Partner Eligibility (FI-03) 8
   Integrated 10 SFA Enterprise Databases Financial Partner Aid
   Eligibility Programs Service 01 Title IV programs application 02 Lender
   Participation Questionnaire (LPQs) details 03 Notification details 04
   Eligibility notices on confirmations 05 Deactivation details 06 Claims
   information 07 Voluntary discontinuance details 08 Institution status
   update/retrieval 09 Approved lender applications 10 LEAPP performance
   reports 11 LEAPP application levels Figure IV.B-11. Program Eligibility
   for Financial Partners Process Flow July 15, 2000 Page V.B-29 24 22, 17
   Schools Schools Develop and Conduct Deliver Financial Take Action
   Information, Partner on Training, 17, 22 Financial Program Other 3, 5
   Performance and Technical Institutions Reviews Participants (FI-08) 4,
   5 Assistance 4, 5 (FI-07) (FI-04) 25,26 4, 5 23,24 Financial
   Independent 1,2 Partners Public Accountants 6 27 6,7,8,9,10,11 13,14
   Maintain Lenders Financial 20,13 3 Guaranty Partner 16 Agencies
   Performance 12 Data 27 7,8,9,10,11 (FI-05) 15 ED 9,10,11 10,11 19,20,
   21,22 Borrowers 13,14 27 Services 21,13 State Monitor 13,14 Licensing
   16 Financial Agencies 17 Partner Guaranty Performance Agencies (FI-06)
   Accreditation 13,22 Agencies 13 Secondary 16,17 19 Markets 13
   10044162-387_v2 Third Party Auditors Integrated SFA Enterprise
   Databases Secondary Markets Financial Financial Services Partner
   Program Partner Support Services Program Eligibility Services Lenders
   Figure IV.B-12. Program Support for Financial Partners Process Flow (1
   of 2) July 15, 2000 Page V.B-30 01 Training on content of Title IV
   programs, regulations, offerings, and aid levels 02 Technical
   assistance, quality assurance, training, and tools 03 Financial Partner
   profile 04 External review/audit data of financial partners 05 Survey
   data and feedback from focus groups, phone statistics, etc. 06 Lender
   Audit reports 07 Review data 08 Reporting form data 09 ED's review and
   audit data 10 Profiles 11 Appeals of ED program reviews and appeals of
   calculated default rates 12 Quality Control process review 13 Financial
   program and oversight data 14 Audit and review appeal status 15
   Organizational program review and audit data 16 Request to access
   transaction histories 17 Feedback on services offered by financial
   partners 18 Transaction histories 19 Secondary Market default rate 20
   Lender default rate 2
