http://www.cinms.nos.noaa.gov/sachome1.html


   [unilogo4.gif]

   Meeting Annoucements

   Advisory Council
   News

   Meeting Minutes

   Members/Alternates
     * Working Groups&
       Subcommittes
     * WG Announcements & Notes

   Advisory Council
   Charter

   Federal & State Jurisdiction
   in the CINMS

   Marine Reserve News [new.gif]

   Advisory Council
   Coordinator

   Advisory Council
   Home Page

   CINMS Home Page




                  Channel Islands National Marine Sanctuary

                    Advisory Council Information and News

                                 [grp1.jpg]
      The Sanctuary Advisory Council meeting at the Ventura Yacht Club

                       The Sanctuary Advisory Council

   December of 1998 marked the beginning of a new era in management for
   the Channel Islands National Marine Sanctuary. Since that time, the
   Sanctuary Advisory Council has been working successfully to enhance
   Sanctuary management by bringing valuable community advice, expertise
   and concerns to the table for management consideration. The Council
   provides a public forum for consultation and deliberation and offers
   community-based advice to the Sanctuary Manager. This is a
   community-based participatory process that assures continued public
   input to management decision-making, while at the same time expanding
   public awareness about the Sanctuary and challenging marine resource
   management issues.

   Specifically, the Council's objectives are to provide the Sanctuary
   manager with advice on:
     * Protecting natural and cultural resources, and identifying and
       evaluating emergent or critical issues involving Sanctuary use or
       resources;
     * Identifying and realizing the Sanctuary's research objectives;
     * Identifying and realizing educational opportunities to increase the
       public knowledge and stewardship of the Sanctuary environment; and
     * Assisting to develop an informed constituency to increase awareness
       and understanding of the purpose and value of the Sanctuary and the
       National Marine Sanctuary Program.

   Council members have been appointed competitively by NOAA and will
   serve three-year terms. The Council meets bi-monthly in open sessions
   located throughout the Ventura and Santa Barbara region. More
   information on how the Council conducts its business can be found in
   the Sanctuary Advisory Council's Charter.

   One of the Council's most important strengths comes from the diversity
   of its membership. The Council consists of twenty voting members and
   twenty alternates that represent the general public, tourism, business,
   recreation, fishing, education, research and conservation interests, as
   well as local, State and Federal government agencies. Additionally, the
   respective managers of the four California National Marine Sanctuaries
   (Channel Islands, Cordell Bank, Gulf of the Farallones, and Monterey
   Bay) sit as non-voting members of the Council. The in-depth and varied
   knowledge of these individuals, especially related to Sanctuary
   resources and values, combines to form a highly valuable collective
   body of expertise and experience.

   The fishing industry, conservation organizations, local businesses,
   resource managers, research and educational institutions, and the
   concerned public -- these groups and many more represent diverse, and
   sometimes competing, values and interests. Recognizing the strength of
   Sanctuary management advice built on input from a diversity of
   viewpoints, the Advisory Council provides a model for generating
   consensus based on shared values and common interests.

   The Advisory Council conducts itself in an open, transparent and
   publicly accessible process. This allows for comprehensive and
   effective participation of all stakeholders. All meetings of the
   Council are advertised and open to the public, and each member links
   the Sanctuary and the Advisory Council process to extensive networks of
   constituencies. The Council thus serves as the Sanctuary's link to the
   broader community of stakeholders, and as an entry point for community
   participation in Sanctuary management.

   The Advisory Council process is helping to vest ownership and
   responsibility for shaping the future management and protection of the
   Sanctuary in the community most interested in and dependent upon
   Sanctuary resources. In this way, a sense of community-based Sanctuary
   stewardship is fostered.

   Community involvement in Sanctuary management is enhanced by the
   Council?s establishment of new "Working Groups and Subcommittees."
   Working Groups are created by and operate under the purview of the
   Council, and help to bring additional stakeholders and experts to the
   Council to focus on specific issues. A graphic overview of the various
   Working Groups is presented here.

   In the summer of 1999, the Advisory Council formed two task-specific
   working groups: the Marine Reserves Working Group (MRWG) and the Marine
   Reserve Science Panel. The MRWG was formed to assist the Sanctuary in
   its joint process with the California Department of Fish and Game to
   consider marine ecological reserves within the Sanctuary. The Marine
   Reserve Science Panel brings together a distinguished panel of experts
   for the purpose of providing scientific input to the MRWG.

   The Council has also approved formation of the following standing
   working groups:
     * Fishing Working Group
     * Conservation Working Group
     * Military Working Group
     * Ports and Harbors Working Group

   These standing working groups are or will be comprised of experts from
   appropriate fields of interest, and all will meet on a regular basis to
   provide information to the Council.

   Thank you for your interest in the Channel Islands Sanctuary Advisory
   Council. If you have any questions, feel free to contact the Sanctuary
   Advisory Coordinator by e-mail or phone at (805) 966-7107. We invite
   you to check this web site for information on upcoming Advisory Council
   meetings, and hope that you can join us!

                                 Top of page

      Meeting Announcements/Minutes/ News/ Members&Alternates/ Advisory
   Council Charter Marine Reserves/ Council Coordinator/ CINMS Home Page/
                                  Webmaster

     Channel Islands National Marine Sanctuary * www.cinms.nos.noaa.gov
