http://www.rrs.nws.noaa.gov/telemetr.htm


   [Nwslogo1.gif] Telemetry Receiver System
   Home Up GPS Radiosonde Telemetry Receiver System Signal Processing
   System Computer Balloon Shelter Surface Instruments



   Telemetry Receiver System

   On August 31, 1999, a contract was award to ATIR U.S., Inc., now doing
   business as International Meteorological Systems (InterMet Systems)
   for the demonstration phase of the Telemetry Receiver System.  The
   first demonstration unit will undergo testing in April, 2000.
   Following successful completion of this effort, a production contract
   is expected to be awarded in September, 2000.  Field operation of the
   new system will begin in FY 2001.
   AtirF2.jpg (20695 bytes)
      The Telemetry Receiver System consists of three major components:
   [uabul1a.gif] Antenna System
   [uabul1a.gif] Receiver
   [uabul1a.gif] Data Communications Equipment

      The antenna tracks the radiosonde, providing the 1660 - 1700 MHz radio
      data to the receiver, which down converts the signal  to 10.7 MHz for
      the Signal Processing System.   The Data Communications Equipment
      provides a fiber optic link back to the office (within 2000m)  where
      the main workstation is located, as well as voice communications
      between the office, antenna location, and launch area.  The receiver is
      state-of-the-art and uses standard cell-phone components.
      Antenna Characteristics:
   [uabul1a.gif] 2.0 meter diameter fiberglass parabolic dish
   [uabul1a.gif] Lightweight construction
   [uabul1a.gif] Rugged, corrosion resistant materials
   [uabul1a.gif] Easy access to subassemblies
   [uabul1a.gif] Pedestal provides environmentally controlled 19" rack for
                 Data Communications Equipment and Signal Processing System
   [uabul1a.gif] Use of current NWS radomes will be required
   [uabul1a.gif] Uses proven, low risk technology

      The servoed parabolic dish was chosen due to it's superb performance,
      low cost, and high reliability.  The usually lower reliability of
      moving mechanical parts have evolved over the past 10 years to become
      very reliable mechanisms.    The dish can be split for easier
      transport.   The low inertia pancake motor drives are maintenance free,
      lubricated for life.
   The system will include a comprehensive suite of Built-in-test features
   for both continuous monitoring of the hardware and software states, as
   well as special off-line diagnostic tests.

   The system is controlled by a central processor, as well as control
   unit at the launch area.  The Control and Display Unit is ruggedized
   and weather proof.  It contains a 25-key membrane keyboard, with a
   4-line backlit display.   Visual indicators are provided for frequency
   and signal strength, and selectable to also provide audio indication of
   signal strength and radiosonde modulation.   An image depicting the
   control unit is shown below.
   cdu2.gif (36030 bytes)

      Back Home Up Next

                                   [uarula..gif]

   This site is maintained by the:

      Program Management Branch
      Programs and Plans Division
      Office of Science and Technology
      National Weather Service
                                      Date Last Modified: May 10, 2000
