http://www.cityofhouston.gov/abouthouston/sportsrec.html

   City of Houston

   Home

       Services

               About Houston

                            Mayor's Office

                                          Elected Officials

                                                           City Desk

   About Houston > Sports & Recreation


   Texans

   Rockets

   Comets

   Astros

   Aeros

   Houston Golf

   Grand Prix

   Parks and Recreation

   Houston Bikeways

Sports & Recreation

   Houston is a city that loves sports, from professional to college to
   interscholastic to personal. Year-round, the weather lends itself to
   sports, and Houstonians take advantage of it.

   Sports fans are right at home with Houston's professional teams.
   Amateur sports are popular too, with a full slate of leagues. Many
   sports programs start at the elementary level and run through college.

   Houston fans have many choices when it comes to watching professional
   teams:
     * In basketball we have the Houston Rockets, two-time NBA champions.
     * In women's basketball we have the Houston Comets, four-time WNBA
       champions.
     * In baseball we have the Houston Astros, now housed at Enron Field.
     * In hockey we have the Houston Aeros.
     * Houston's NFL expansion team, the Houston Texans, will hold their
       first game in August 2002 in the new Reliant Stadium.

   Did you know that Houston is hosting the Super Bowl? The National
   Football League announced in November 2000 that Houston would host
   America's biggest annual sporting event, Super Bowl XXXVIII, in 2004.

   Colleges and universities in the Houston area have a number of
   well-loved teams, including football, baseball, basketball and track
   and field. Some of Houston's major collegiate teams are:

     * Rice University Owls
     * University of Houston Cougars
     * Houston Baptist University Huskies
     * Texas Southern University Tigers
     * San Jacinto College Gators

   Other options are available for sports enthusiasts. From March to
   September, the City of Houston has 550 softball teams that hit the
   diamonds. From September to November, 30 football teams compete in flag
   football. From November to February, basketball season pulls 175 teams.
   For more information about these activities as well as the numerous
   sporting clubs available, visit the Parks and Recreation Department.

   The Parks and Recreation Department also has the Houston Youth Diamond
   Sports League. Affiliated with Major League Baseball's RBI program
   (Reviving Baseball in the Inner Cities), the program offers youth, ages
   4-18, an opportunity to participate in T-ball, baseball and girls'
   softball at all skill levels. For teams that qualify, there is an
   opportunity to compete in the World Series competition. Players also
   are eligible to be selected for the Major League Baseball National
   Team, which competes in the amateur Baseball World Championship
   Tournament.

   From small open areas to the sprawling acreage of Hermann and Memorial
   Parks, the Houston Parks and Recreation Department provide many places
   for you to play and have fun. These include:
     * Seven 18-hole golf courses
     * 43 swimming pools (six Olympic-size)
     * 58 community centers
     * Three tennis centers (60 total courts)
     * 156 neighborhood tennis courts (81 sites)
     * 174 baseball /softball fields (lighted and unlighted)
     * 121 football/soccer/rugby fields
     * 128 practice backstops
     * 56 covered, 108 air basketball courts
     * 80 miles of nature or hike and bike trails
     * 27 miles of trails along Brays, Sims, Hunting, Buffalo, White Oak
       and Halls Bayous
     * 251 playgrounds (three water playgrounds)
     * 1,000 miles of esplanades
     * 102 municipally owned sculptures, and six municipally owned
       monuments, and 22 decorative fountains.

   In addition, hundreds of recreation centers, swimming pools and tennis
   courts are maintained by neighborhood subdivisions. These also can be
   located through the Parks and Recreation Department

   Help | Privacy Policy | Site Index
                                                                Texas Online

             COH welcomes your input on how to improve this site

   www.cityofhouston.gov
