http://levin.senate.gov/issues/econstimulus.htm

   HOME


                              [headeconomy.gif]

   A Real Economic Stimulus Package

   On November 26, 2001, the National Bureau of Economic Research made
   official what most Americans have known for months. After an
   unprecedented ten years of healthy growth, our economy has slipped into
   recession. While economic data indicate this recession began as early
   as March, it no doubt has been made more severe by the terrorist
   attacks of September 11.

   In recent months we've seen a sharp increase in the number of Americans
   losing their jobs while others have seen their hours cut back as the
   economy has slowed. When Americans aren't working, they aren't spending
   and ultimately that means even more layoffs. Michigan alone has over
   300,000 workers who are without jobs.

   I believe that the government has an obligation to respond to this
   recession with policies that help those most affected by the downturn
   and which can quickly restore our economic health. We need to
   immediately put money into the hands of people who will spend it and
   businesses that will invest it while helping out our unemployed in a
   real way, but not explode our budget deficit in the process. Given the
   tremendous spirit of unity we've seen since September 11, I have been
   hopeful that Washington could reach agreement on what's known as a
   "stimulus" package.

   One important sign that we could reach bipartisan agreement on such
   legislation came several weeks ago when the leaders of our Senate and
   House Budget Committees two Republicans and two Democrats agreed on
   principles that should determine the content of any stimulus package.
   They agreed it should have an immediate impact on our economy and
   provide money to those most likely to spend it now. And they agreed the
   stimulus should be temporary to make sure it didn't lead to massive
   deficits in the future.

   This bipartisan group provided Congress with a roadmap that should have
   led to broad agreement on a stimulus package. Instead the Republican
   leadership in the House of Representatives has taken the stimulus bill
   on a detour that could do lasting damage to the economy.

   The GOP plan would accelerate and implement tax cuts that are not only
   permanent but also tilted toward large corporations and the wealthiest
   taxpayers. Unlike broad based tax relief for working families and
   incentives for business investment, these tax cuts will not jump-start
   the economy. Indeed, the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office
   recently concluded that the two major tax cut prongs of the GOP plan
   will provide little stimulative bang for the buck. What they will do,
   however, is explode the budget deficit in future years and provide most
   of the benefit to the top 5% of taxpayers and large corporations, and
   no benefit to the bottom 75% of taxpayers. If these additional tax cuts
   were signed into law, they'd produce big budget deficits and higher
   interest rates down the road. History has taught us that high interest
   rates are a sure prescription for economic stagnation and higher
   unemployment.

   Because the Republican plan devotes so much to tax cuts for
   corporations and the highest income Americans, it contains far too
   little assistance for Americans who have lost their jobs in this
   recession and far too little to help them maintain their health care.
   There's also less money to beef up security at our borders, prepare our
   local police and firefighters for new terrorist threats and stockpile
   the medications we need to combat major bioterrorist attacks. Such
   investments in homeland security pay off in two ways they combat
   recession by putting money into the economy while making our country
   more capable of combating terrorism.

   Senate Democrats support a stimulus bill that avoids the pitfalls of
   the Republican plan. There are several advantages to the Democratic
   plan. First, while the Democratic plan contains multiple business tax
   cuts to spur investment and aid large and small businesses, its tax
   cuts are temporary and focused on getting the economy moving today,
   when we need it. In contrast, the GOP plan tax cuts mainly occur after
   2002, and are much more expensive in the long run. Second, the
   Democratic plan also gives far greater benefits to working families and
   those who lost their jobs as a result of the recession. It extends
   unemployment insurance benefits by 13 weeks, expands unemployment
   insurance coverage to an estimated 650,000 workers, and increases
   weekly benefits by the greater of 15% or $25. The Democratic plan also
   would provide a 75% health care subsidy for dislocated workers eligible
   for "COBRA" health care coverage, and for those who are not
   COBRA-eligible, give states the option of providing Medicaid health
   coverage funded at an enhanced rate. Providing federal assistance to
   these families is a real stimulus because it is money that
   cash-strapped families will put directly into the economy, which in
   turn can lead to new hiring. Finally, because it will cost some tens of
   billions less than the GOP plan, the Democratic plan will help control
   future budget deficits, the key to both short-term and long-term
   economic health.

   Negotiations over a stimulus package will soon be resuming. While the
   GOP leadership appears unwilling to give up its permanent tax cuts that
   have little to no stimulative value, many others in the Senate, myself
   included, are unwilling to pass legislation that will do little to help
   the economy today and leave it weaker tomorrow. I'm hopeful, however,
   that we can still achieve a bipartisan stimulus bill that can get the
   economy moving, and keep it moving, in the future.

                                [brblgrv.gif]

       Carl's Bio * Photo Gallery* Michigan Services* Senate Activity

          Press Page * Federal Links * Student Info * Contact Carl
