http://deepimpact.jpl.nasa.gov/mission/index.html

   Artist's Rendering of Comet Tempel 1 DEEP IMPACT - First Look Inside a
   Comet
   Artist's Rendering of Comet Tempel 1
   DEEP IMPACT - First Look Inside a Comet home search sitemap frequently
   asked questions contact us DEEP IMPACT - First Look Inside a Comet
   Artist's Rendering of Comet Tempel 1 DEEP IMPACT - First Look Inside a
   Comet
   Artist's Rendering of Comet Tempel 1 Mission

   contents:
   MISSION: See how the mission works and meet the team
   [spacer.gif] Timeline
   [spacer.gif] Fact Sheet
   [spacer.gif] Quick Facts
   [spacer.gif] Project Team
   [spacer.gif] Animations
   SCIENCE: All about comets, mission science objectives and more
   TECHNOLOGY: About the spacecraft, systems and launch vehicle
   GALLERY: Images, videos and more
   EDUCATION: Standards based activities and opportunities
   DISCOVERY ZONE: Fun for you and your community
   PRESS: News and resources
   [navbar-l2-fade.jpg]

   Artist's Rendering of the Comet, Impactor, and Flyby Spacecraft Deep
   Impact was funded as a Discovery Mission in 1999. Once Deep Impact was
   funded, all team members dedicated their work to the protection and
   fulfillment of the scientific objectives. By forming a deep crater in
   Comet Tempel 1, scientists want to find historical information from the
   material inside. The Deep Impact objectives are:
    1. Observe how the crater forms
    2. Measure the crater's depth and diameter
    3. Measure the composition of the interior of the crater and its
       ejecta
    4. Determine the changes in natural outgassing produced by the impact

   For more on the mission's science objectives, visit Science.

   Visit with mission scientist Alan Delamere to learn how the mission got
   the name Deep Impact.

   See how the Deep Impact mission flies through space in Animations.

   See the Deep Impact Timeline.

   Meet the Project Team.

   What is a Discovery Mission?
   [spacer.gif]
   [bottom-bar.gif]
   NASA Office of Space Science
   Web Curator: Maura Rountree-Brown
   Webmaster: David Martin
   Last Updated: 19-Dec-2001
   Questions? Contact Maura Rountree-Brown.
