http://www.rmc.ca.gov/board/agendas/agenda.html


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                        RMC Home
                        About Us
                        RMC Territory Map
                        Recent News
                        Our Plans and Projects
                        Our Governing Board
                        Next Board Meeting and Agenda
                        Our Political Representatives






   __________ search
      (*)  My CA


   Next Board Meeting and Agenda


                          NOTICE OF PUBLIC MEETING
                                   of the
     San Gabriel and Lower Los Angeles Rivers and Mountains Conservancy
                  "Rivers and Mountains Conservancy" (RMC)
                                will be held
              Friday, February 1, 2002 from 1:00 PM to 4:00 PM
                Los Angeles County Department of Public Works
                900 South Fremont Avenue, Alhambra, CA 91802
                               MEETING AGENDA

   CALL TO ORDER 1:00 P.M.
    I. Roll Call
   II. Public Comment ,
       Individuals wishing to comment must fill out a comment card at the
       meeting for the official record and will be allowed three minutes
       to speak, and representatives of organizations/agencies will be
       allowed five minutes to speak. Speaker times may be reduced
       depending on the number of speakers.
   III. Approval of January 11, 2002 Minutes
   IV. Chair's Report
    V. Chair's Report
   VI. Deputy attorney General's Report
   VII. Staff Report

    A. Appointment of Interim Executive Officer - Action
    B. City of Paramount Grant Amendment - Action
    C. Budget Status: Monthly Budget, $700,000 Appropriation, Project
       Funds - Informational
    D. Legislative Report: Pending Legislation - Informational
    E. Proposition 12 & 13 Program Report - Informational report by
       Resources Agency staff
    F. Open Space Plan Approval Progress - Informational
    G. Parkway and Open Space Plan Phase II Working Group Report -
       Informational

     Consent Calendar -- no items

     Board Member Comments

     Future Agenda Items

     X. Closed Session: Pursuant to Government Code sections 11126 (a)(1),
   11126(c)(7)(A), 11126 (e)(1) and 11126.3(a) the Board may hold a closed
   session to discuss and take possible action on personnel matters,
   receive advice of counsel on pending or potential litigation, and/or
   give instructions to negotiators regarding items of this agenda.
   Confidential memoranda related to these issues may be considered during
   such closed session discussions.

     March 1, 2002 Meeting -- Thanks to the LA County Department of Public
   Works!

     Adjournment 4:00 P.M.

   For additional information concerning the meeting, please contact staff
   at (626)458-4315 or visit the Rivers and Mountains Conservancy web page
   at www.rmc.ca.gov

                             Back to Top of Page
             © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor.
                    Conditions of Use     Privacy Policy
