http://nepo.ne.doe.gov/projinfo1_t.html

   U.S. Department of Energy
   Office of Nuclear Energy, Science and Technology
   Nuclear Energy Plant Optimization
   Notices and Announcements
   Questions and Answers Regarding National Laboratory Program
   Announcement Lab NE-2001-2

   Review the list of questions to the U. S. Department of Energy (DOE)
   regarding Program Announcement LAB NE-2001-2 and the answers provided
   by DOE.

   Department of Energy (DOE)-Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI)
   Nuclear Energy Plant Optimization (NEPO) Program Workshop
   May 16-17, 2001, Charlotte, North Carolina

   To ensure that the research and development (R&D) being conducted under
   the NEPO Program is focused on the most important technical issues
   facing the nuclear industry, DOE and EPRI solicit input from the
   nuclear industry and the general public through annual R&D workshops.
   Last year, a workshop was hosted by EPRI on July 12-13 at the EPRI
   regional office in Charlotte, North Carolina. The workshop facilitated
   discussions on ongoing NEPO projects, current technical issues facing
   continued operation of U.S. nuclear power plants, research being
   performed to resolve these issues, and critical research needs that
   should be addressed by NEPO in fiscal year (FY) 2001 and beyond.
   Participants in the workshop included representatives from electric
   utilities, national laboratories, universities, the Nuclear Regulatory
   Commission, and other stakeholder organizations. The results from the
   workshop were incorporated into the Joint DOE-EPRI Strategic Research
   and Development Plan to Optimize U.S. Nuclear Power Plants. This R&D
   plan is the basis for the research performed under the NEPO Program.

   DOE and EPRI are currently planning the next public workshop to discuss
   the research needs on which DOE and EPRI should focus in FY 2002. The
   workshop will be held on May 16-17, 2001, at the EPRI regional office
   in Charlotte, North Carolina. A preliminary agenda is available.

   DOE and EPRI welcome representation at the workshop from all
   stakeholders. If you are interested in participating in the workshop,
   please e-mail us at (nepo@hq.doe.gov, with the Subject: Workshop
   Participation Request) and include your name, affiliation, and area of
   interest and/or expertise. DOE and EPRI welcome participants possessing
   detailed knowledge and experience with the technical issues facing
   operating plants and the opportunities to address these issues through
   new technology. In particular, we encourage nuclear plant operations,
   maintenance, and engineering personnel to attend this workshop. As
   there is a physical limitation on the number of participants that can
   be accommodated at the workshop, DOE and EPRI may request that a single
   designated representative present all proposed R&D from the same
   organization. Persons interested in attending the workshop are
   requested to submit their requests no later than April 6, 2001.
   Invitations to the workshop are expected to be sent via e-mail by April
   13, 2001. Attendees are expected to bring to the workshop proposed R&D
   needs that should be considered for future funding in the NEPO Program.

   Attendees should note that this workshop will not include discussions
   on contractor capabilities or selection. The workshop serves to
   identify proposed work for inclusion in the NEPO R&D program. Under the
   NEPO Program, R&D activities are selected for funding through an expert
   panel review process that prioritizes proposed work based on need,
   value, and available funding, irrespective of who initially proposed
   the R&D or who might conduct the work. Attendance at the workshop will
   have no bearing on future contractor selection.

   Please return to this page for updates on the workshop.

   Competitive Selection of National Laboratories

   DOE issues program announcements for specific R&D activities that
   require unique capabilities found only at the DOE national
   laboratories. Details of the work scope and the evaluation criteria to
   be used for selecting the appropriate laboratory to conduct the R&D are
   specified in the program announcement. The program announcement for FY
   2001 R&D activities is posted below.

   Program Announcement LAB NE-2001-2

   DOE national laboratories are invited to submit field work proposals
   (FWP) for performing the following R&D activities:
    1. Task 5-110.2: Human Factors Guidance for Digital Instrumentation
       and Control (I&C) Systems and Hybrid Control Rooms
    2. Task 5-113.1: On-line Monitoring of Nonredundant Sensors for Signal
       Validation and Calibration Reduction
    3. Task 5-117.3: R&D Needs to Address Potential Nuclear Plant
       Vulnerabilities Arising from Transmission Grid Voltage Inadequacies

   Details of work scope and the evaluation criteria for selecting the
   appropriate laboratory to conduct the R&D are specified in the program
   announcement LAB NE-2001-2. Please note that the deadline for receipt
   of formal FWPs from the laboratories is March 30, 2001.

   Review the list of questions to DOE regarding Program Announcement LAB
   NE-2001-2 and the answers provided by DOE.

   Competitive Selection of Private Sector Contractors

   NEPO R&D work performed by the private sector (i.e., organizations
   other than national laboratories) is contracted primarily by EPRI. DOE
   has established a cooperative agreement with EPRI for this purpose. The
   work funded under the cooperative agreement is contracted through EPRI.

   The EPRI contracting process for competitive contractor selection
   involves a broad solicitation to organizations known to EPRI and/or its
   member organizations as likely to possess the capabilities to carry out
   the required work. EPRI is willing to add qualified bidders to their
   bidders list for future solicitations.

   For FY 2001, seven new R&D tasks are expected to be awarded through the
   EPRI competitive contractor selection process. Brief descriptions are
   provided here to identify the project areas only; they are not intended
   to describe the complete scope of work to be awarded, which will be
   identified in the requests for proposals issued by EPRI. The expected
   range of funding available for these tasks is $100,000 to $400,000 with
   the total available funding estimated at approximately $1,500,000.
   Organizations who believe they are qualified to perform the work and
   wish to be included on the EPRI bidder's list and receive the request
   for proposal for any of these seven tasks are invited to notify us no
   later than March 9, 2001. All such requests will be forwarded to EPRI
   for consideration.
     * Task 3.8.9: Develop Integrated Cable-System Aging-Management
       Guidance
     * Task 3.8.11 Develop CM Techniques for Medium Voltage Electrical
       Cable
     * Task 3.24.3 Fatigue Reactor Water Environmental Effects
     * Task 5.106.0 Low Power and Shutdown Probabilistic Risk Assessment
       (PRA)
     * Task 5.107.2 Guidelines for Quantifying Organizational Factors into
       Risk
     * Task 5.110.1 Human Factors Guidance for Digital Instrumentation and
       Control (I&C) Systems and Hybrid Control Rooms
     * Task 5.117.2 R&D Needs to Address Potential Nuclear Plant
       Vulnerabilities Arising from Transmission Grid Voltage Inadequacies

   Faculty and Student Internships

   The Office of Technology and International Cooperation (NE-20) is
   inviting qualified students and faculty from minority universities to
   apply for summer positions to work on NEPO projects jointly funded by
   DOE and EPRI. The announcement is posted through the Division of
   Educational Programs at Argonne National Laboratory and can be accessed
   at http://www.dep.anl.gov.

   Questions

   To submit your questions regarding NEPO, please Contact Us by email at
   (nepo@hq.doe.gov, with the Subject: General NEPO Information). We will
   respond to your inquiries as soon as possible. For general nuclear
   energy questions, click here (ne.webmaster@hq.doe.gov, with the
   Subject: General NE Information).
   Back to NEPO Text-Only Home Page
