http://adoptahorse.blm.gov/stories/nov-2001.htm

      Bureau of Land Management Wild Horse and Burro Internet Adoption
                                                       HOME | Gallery


   Internet Sulphur Horse Goes to New Mexico
   by Dale Willis

   [nov-2001-01.jpg] My name is Dale Willis, I am a teacher on the Navajo
   Reservation in New Mexico. I recently fulfilled a lifelong dream of
   adopting a mustang. The person in the picture is Adrain Wauneka, my
   fourteen year old apprentice and my right arm. I intended to adopt two
   horses, one for myself and one for Adrain, but I only have one so far.
   That one was Adrain's birthday gift. I am in the process of teaching
   him proper horsemanship, and how to be responsible for the well being
   of another living being. As you can see they bonded rather quickly. I
   plan to adopt one or two more in the near future and have another one
   for myself.

   [nov-2001-02.jpg] Rico, is a two year old bay colt that appeared as
   #1904 on the May Internet Adoption. He was listed as brown but he is
   obviously bay. He was captured out of the famed Sulphur herd in Utah.
   He has some of the characteristics of the Sulphur horses but in my
   opinion he does not have too much of those traits. I believe he will be
   somewhat larger than the average Sulphur horse, both taller and
   broader, which is more satisfactory to me. He does have the curved ears
   and is turned over the croup like the Spanish horses, and he does
   exhibit their intelligence.

   When we picked Rico up at Delta, Utah he was extremely wild. He and all
   of the other horses that were still there, bounced off of every fence
   several times before slowing down a little. As soon as I saw him I felt
   like a thief, having purchased him for $130. He was nicer looking than
   most of the horses that brought more than him. He was a little hard to
   load, but Gale (Bennet), finally got him into the trailer, after we had
   haltered him. All the way home he rode so well in the trailer. He never
   moved around at all.

   [nov-2001-03.jpg] When Adrain, and I got him home we had a fifteen foot
   rope on him, but that was not long enough. For about three days I would
   inch closer to him until I finally was able to get the rope with the
   "poop scoop", and drag it to me. I gradually worked my way to him and
   he was terrified. I immediately tied another fifteen feet of rope on so
   that it would be easier to catch him next time. At first he only
   touched the back of my hand and I would let him go. Then after a few
   more days I was touching him more and more. Finally, after much
   anticipation from Adrain he finally was able to touch Rico for the
   first time. It was not long until we were brushing him with a horse
   hair brush. He really likes that soft brush.

   [nov-2001-04.jpg] The pictures that you are seeing, were taken in June,
   very shortly after we got Rico home. He went to an eight foot rope
   rather quick, and now he does not drag a rope at all. He has been
   lounging since June, and he drives with the saddle really well.
   Recently, we have been working on setting up and pivoting, so that
   Adrain can use him in showmanship at the local 4-H shows. We will
   finish breaking him later this fall, and who knows, he may be at Reno,
   NV next summer at the National show. That is our ultimate goal with
   Rico.

   Another future possibility for Adrain and Rico would be endurance.
   Adrain runs cross country in high school and he would make a good
   partner for Rico in this event.
   [USEMAP:footer.gif]
