http://eclipse99.ksc.nasa.gov/pages/Overview.html

   [USEMAP:LeftNav01_Overview.gif] [Eclipse99.gif]
   [USEMAP:00TopNav_None.gif]
     [Banner01_Overview.gif]

   On Wednesday, August 11, 1999, a total eclipse of the Sun will be
   visible from within a narrow corridor that traverses the Eastern
   Hemisphere. The path of the Moon's umbral shadow begins in the Atlantic
   and crosses Central Europe, the Middle East, and India where it ends at
   sunset in the Bay of Bengal. A partial eclipse will be seen within the
   much broader path of the Moon's penumbral shadow, which includes
   Northeastern North America, all of Europe, Northern Africa and the
   western half of Asia. This event is the last total solar eclipse of the
   20th century, and it will benefit formal and informal education
   communities alike.
   The purpose of this Web site is to provide live coverage of the actual
   eclipse of the Sun from a ship in the Black Sea and to use this
   coverage for live museum programs. Listed on the Web site are the
   participating museums. Because many of the museums are involving the
   Girl Scouts in their programs, the Interest Project requirements are
   also available for both Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts. The formal
   education community will be able to use the Web site as a tool for
   teaching about the relationship of the Sun, Moon, Earth, and eclipses.
   The actual event will be archived to enhance related activities
   provided by the museums during the school year. The Web site activities
   are presented through an integrated approach to provide mathematics and
   cultural connections.
   Because the event is during the summer, the audience will be museum
   staff and visitors participating in the Web cast. Instruments on board
   the ship in the Black Sea will provide temperature, wind direction,
   light intensity, and barometric pressure. The changes during the
   eclipse will register on the Web site for interaction and discussion at
   the museum sites based on the design of their programs. The data will
   then be archived for future use in a classroom. Before totality, a
   weather briefing will be broadcast live via a Web cast from the ship.
   In addition, the museums will be given time on a
   first-come-first-served basis to control a pan/tilt camera on the ship.
   A separate camera will be used to capture the solar eclipse through
   totality. Astronaut Ron Parise will describe the happenings on board
   the ship and answer questions. Ron’s daughter, Katie Parise, will talk
   Girl Scout to Girl Scout from the ship to the museums located at the
   Air and Space Museum in Washington, D.C., and the Exploratorium in
   California. Archeoastronomer Tony Aveni will provide information about
   the cultures and traditions that surround a solar eclipse. Audio
   connections during totality will be made at various sites along the
   path across Europe, ending with the scientists in Turkey. The following
   activities and items will be available before and after the event:
   interaction through questions and answers; a ship’s travel log;
   pictures from the ship; weather updates; and time slots for control of
   the camera on the ship’s deck.
   to top
   This Web site will provide activities that may be used to teach about
   the relationship between the Sun, Earth, and the Moon. The following
   national standards and benchmarks are connected to the activities. The
   history of eclipses and the cultures and traditions that eclipses have
   affected are also part of the information for use within a classroom
   setting. The Web site will continue to grow during the summer as
   information and images are added, becoming an effective tool for
   classroom use in science, mathematics, and social studies.
   Formal Education Community Science and Mathematics Standards
   National Science Education Standards
   How do we gain knowledge of a solar eclipse?
     * By understanding that patterns in the sky have regular movements
     * By understanding position relationships among the Sun, Earth, and
       the Moon
     * By understanding the orbits and the application of mathematics

   How can we gain understanding of the basic features of Earth?
     * By knowing that weather (in the short run) and climate (in the long
       run) involve the transfer of energy in and out of the atmosphere
     * By knowing that solar radiation heats the land masses, oceans, and
       air, and that transfer of heat energy at the boundaries between the
       atmosphere, the land masses, and the oceans results in layers at
       different temperatures and the densities in both the ocean and
       atmosphere
     * By knowing that the action of gravitational force on layers of
       different densities causes them to rise or fall
     * By knowing that such circulation influenced by the rotation of the
       Earth produces winds and ocean currents
     * By learning about the transfer of energy, energy types, sources,
       conversions, and their relationship to heat and temperature.

   What can we learn about eclipses through traditions and cultures?
     * Important contributions to the advancement of science, mathematics,
       and technology have been made by different kinds of people, in
       different cultures, at different times.
     * Science is an adventure in which people everywhere can take part,
       as they have for many centuries
     * The Egyptian, Greek, Chinese, Hindu, and Arabic cultures are
       responsible for many scientific and mathematical ideas and
       technological inventions
     * Modern science is based on traditions of thought that came together
       in Europe about 500 years ago. People from all cultures now
       contribute to that tradition.

   [GoLive_BSAlogo.gif]
   Boy Scouts of America


   [GoLive_GSAvertlogo1.gif]
   Girl Scouts of America


   [Over_photo_Parise.jpg]
   Mission specialist
   Ron Parise
   [Button_Bio.gif]
   Ron Parise Bio
   [Button_videoSmall.gif]
   Ron Parise Video


   [Over_aveni_stairways.jpg]

                           Stairways to the Stars:
        Skywatching in Three Great Ancient Cultures by Anthony Aveni


     Back to top
