http://wsom.nws.noaa.gov/manual/CHAPTERF/NF609601.HTML

   COMMERCE IMAGE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
                  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

                  NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE
                  1325 East-West Highway
                  Silver Spring, Maryland 20910-3283


   W/OM12:WES
      January 25, 1996

   TO:         All Holders of Operations Manual
   SUBJECT: Transmittal Memorandum for Operations Manual Issuance 96-1

   1.    Material Transmitted:

   WSOM Chapter F-60, Tsunami Warning Service.

   2.    Summary:

   The major changes in this revision include:

       a.     Realignment of responsibilities between ATWC and PTWC. Each
   Center is now the sole provider of tsunami information for their
   respective areas of responsibility (AOR) regardless of the location of
   an earthquake.

       b.     Creation of Tsunami Advisory Bulletin for ATWC to advise
   customers in their AOR of the occurrence of an earthquake with Richter
   magnitude greater than 7.5 at a location beyond a 6 hour tsunami travel
   to the ATWC AOR.

   Most other paragraphs have received revisions with emphasis placed on
   simplification of procedures to be followed in the operation and
   management of the NWS Tsunami Warning Service.

   3.    Effect on Other Instructions:

   Supersedes entire Chapter F-60, WSOM Issuance 89-7, dated August 3,
   1989, and OMLs 1-90 dated March 5, 1990, 2-91 dated March 14, 1991, and
   2-92 dated July 30, 1992.

   Elbert W. Friday, Jr.
   Assistant Administrator
   for Weather Services

     __________________________________________________________________

   Issue Date    Org. Code     NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE      Part    Chap.
   1-25-96        W/OM12             Operations Manual
            F     60

   TSUNAMI WARNING SERVICE

   Table of Contents:

   1.    Introduction

           1.1 Definitions

   2.     Organizational Responsibilities

           2.1    Weather Service Headquarters (WSH)

                   2.1.1     Tsunami Program Manager

          2.2    Regional Headquarters

                   2.2.1     Disaster Preparedness

           2.3    General Tsunami Warning Center Responsibilities

                   2.3.1     Alaska Tsunami Warning Center (ATWC)

                   2.3.2     Pacific Tsunami Warning Center (PTWC)

                   2.3.3     ATWC/PTWC Coordination

                   2.3.4     Seismic Information Exchange and
   Dissemination 11

                   2.3.5     International Tsunami Information Center
   (ITIC)12

   3.    Earthquake Seismology

   4.    Tidal Data

   5.     Dissemination

   6.    Damage Survey

   7.     Communication Plan for the Tsunami Warning System

           7.1    Description

           7.2    Responsibility

     __________________________________________________________________

   1.    Introduction. This chapter assigns responsibilities and provides
   guidelines for preparing and disseminating tsunami watches, warnings,
   and advisory and information bulletins. The operational objectives of
   the Tsunami Warning System (TWS) in the Pacific are:

           a.     to locate and size major earthquakes in the Pacific
   basin,

            b.     to determine their tsunamigenic potential,

            c.     to predict tsunami wave arrival times and, when
   possible, run-up on the coast, and

            d.     to provide timely and effective tsunami information and
   warnings to the population of the Pacific to reduce the hazards of
   tsunamis, especially to human life.

   To help achieve these objectives, the TWS monitors a network of seismic
   and tidal stations throughout the Pacific basin.

   The National Weather Service (NWS) operates a three-tiered TWS:
   regional, national, and international warning services. The Pacific
   Tsunami Warning Center (PTWC) carries all three responsibilities while
   the Alaska Tsunami Warning Center (ATWC) has only regional
   responsibility. The international warning system provides watch/warning
   services to all of the nations of the Pacific who are members of the
   International Coordination Group for the TWS in the Pacific (ICG/ITSU)
   or those who provide the TWS with supporting data. Specifics on these
   responsibilities will be discussed in Section 2.

   Another necessity in achieving the above objectives is to maintain a
   large and effective communications network. This network is briefly
   discussed in Section 7 and detailed in the Communication Plan for the
   TWS (COMM PLAN).

   1.1    Definitions.

   Area of Responsibility (AOR). The geographical area within which a
   Center has the responsibility for the dissemination of tsunami watches,
   warnings, and information bulletins and the provision of interpretive
   information to emergency managers and other officials

   Regional Tsunami Warning Center. A Center that is responsible for the
   detection of tsunamis in the ocean basin that pose a threat within its
   regional AOR; the prediction of their arrival time within the region,
   and if possible, coastal impact. The Center is also responsible for the
   provision, to those regional interests responsible for the life and
   safety of the population nearest the potential tsunami source, of the
   earliest possible warnings, watches, and advisory and information
   bulletins, as well as when appropriate, the extension, upgrading, or
   termination of these issuances. The requirement for rapid response
   demands that initial evaluation be based on minimal data.

   National Tsunami Warning Center. A Center that is responsible for the
   detection of tsunamis in the ocean basin that pose a threat to United
   States national interests outside of a regional AOR, the prediction of
   their arrival time, and if possible, coastal impact; and the provision
   of timely and effective information and warnings to those national
   interests to reduce the hazards to human life and safety. Such
   information and warnings, based initially on seismic data only, should
   be provided in the least possible time (generally within 10 minutes of
   receipt of sufficient data to characterize the earthquake) to allow
   national interests to implement the required safety measures.

   Regional Tsunami Warning. A bulletin, usually based only on seismic
   information, initially issued as a means of providing the earliest
   possible alert to the population near the epicentral area of an
   earthquake. It places a restricted area (2- to 3-hour tsunami travel
   time) in a condition that requires all coastal areas in the region to
   be prepared for imminent flooding from a tsunami and is usually based
   only on seismic information without tsunami confirmation. Subsequent
   warning bulletins, which incrementally expand the warning area, shall
   be issued at least hourly or when conditions warrant until upgraded to
   a Pacificwide Warning or cancelled.

   Pacific-wide Tsunami Warning. A bulletin issued by the PTWC after
   confirmation has been received that a tsunami has been generated which
   has caused damage at distances greater than 1000 kilometers from the
   epicenter and thus poses a threat to any populated area within the
   Pacific Basin.

   Regional Tsunami Watch. A bulletin issued initially using only seismic
   information to alert all participants within 1 to 3 hours travel time
   beyond the tsunami warning area. The tsunami watch area will be
   expanded hourly until it is either cancelled or upgraded by issuing a
   Pacific-p($e warning. A Regional Tsunami Watch may be included in the
   text of the message that disseminates a Regional Tsunami Warning.

   (NOTE: Although Tsunami Watch and Tsunami Warning are defined
   separately for clarity, usual operating procedures include both the
   Warning and the Watch in a single (watch/warning) bulletin.)

   Tsunami Advisory Bulletin . A bulletin issued by the ATWC to advise
   interested persons within its AOR that the PTWC has issued a tsunami
   warning for an earthquake whose epicenter is located outside of the
   ATWC AOR and more than 6 hours tsunami travel time from any part of the
   ATWC AOR, and that ATWC will continue to monitor the event, issuing
   hourly updates. As conditions warrant, the Advisory will be continued,
   upgraded to a watch /warning, or cancelled.

   Tsunami Information Bulletin. A bulletin issued to advise participants
   of the occurrence of an earthquake in the Pacific or near-Pacific area
   with the evaluation that a potentially destructive tsunami was not
   generated. If the evaluation indicates the possible generation of a
   nondestructive tsunami, an investigation will be initiated and
   additional tsunami information bulletins will be issued until the
   investigation is concluded.

   Appropriate Bulletins will generally be issued within 15 minutes of
   earthquake origin time for earthquakes occurring within a Center's
   regional AOR and within 10 minutes of receipt of data necessary to
   characterize the earthquake for earthquakes occurring outside of a
   Center's regional AOR. As initial warnings may be issued when tsunamis
   have not been generated, warnings are limited in geographical extent
   until rapid confirmation of the existence or nonexistence of a tsunami
   is obtained.

   The Communications Plan for the TWS (COMM PLAN). A document that serves
   as the operational manual for the participants on the TWS. It provides
   a general history of the nature of tsunami and a brief history .f the
   warning service. The COMM PLAN lists the criteria for watch/warning and
   information bulletin issuance, the preferred methods of communicating
   with TWS Member States, and gives examples of bulletin format and
   content. It also lists the tide and seismograph stations that
   participate in the TWS, the method of communication between the
   stations and the Centers, and the reporting criteria. It will be
   routinely updated each year in January and July.

   2.    Organizational Responsibilities.

   2.1    Weather Service Headquarters (WSH). Overall responsibility for
   the TWS rests with the Assistant Administrator for Weather Services and
   with the Chief, Integrated Hydrometeorology Services Core serving as
   senior staff support to the Tsunami Program Manager. Specific
   responsibilities of the Core are:

           a.     Advise and assist the Tsunami Program Manager in the
   development of all policies and procedures.

            b.     Work directly with Regional Directors and division and
   branch chiefs in the consideration of broad management decisions.

            c.     Identify requirements for new and needed changes in
   existing plans, policies, and procedures affecting the TWS.

   2.1.1    Tsunami Program Manager. The Pacific Region Director serves as
   the Tsunami Program Manager (TPM). The TPM shall be the U.S. national
   contact point for matters involving the Intergovernmental Oceanographic
   Commission's (IOC) ICG/ITSU and with foreign governments and
   observatories regarding arrangements for operational matters (including
   data exchange), cooperative programs, and scientific exchanges.

   2.2    Regional Headquarters. The Pacific, Alaska, and Western Regional
   Headquarters shall:

            a.     Operate, monitor, and maintain the tsunami warning
   program within their area of responsibility and provide regional
   guidelines and instructions to their field offices, as required.

            b.     Maintain liaison with international, national, state,
   county, and local emergency services agencies, as required.

            c.     Interact with WSH, the TPM, other regions, and other
   Federal, state, and local government agencies in planning improved
   tsunami warning services.

   The Pacific Region Headquarters (PRH) administers and maintains the
   PTWC and provides administrative and financial support to the
   International Tsunami Information Center (ITIC).

   The Alaskan Regional Headquarters administers and maintains the ATWC.

   The Western Region Headquarters provides additional guidance to its
   field offices on the communication and disaster preparedness aspects of
   the tsunami program and establishes and coordinates regional program
   requirements with the Alaska and Pacific regions and WSH.

   2.2.1    Disaster Preparedness. Each regional headquarters is
   responsible for implementing NWS policy for disaster preparedness
   activities for tsunami events and maintaining an effective regional
   disaster preparedness program.

   The regional disaster preparedness focal point shall assist the
   Regional Director in coordinating and monitoring the region's disaster
   preparedness programs. Warning Coordination Meteorologists at NWS field
   offices shall carry out tsunami disaster preparedness activities in
   their area of responsibility with Federal regional, state, county, and
   local management officials.

   The regional tsunami warning centers also assist Regional Directors in
   implementing national and regional policies designed to ensure adequate
   public preparedness for tsunamis. This is done in close cooperation
   with the Federal Emergency Management Agency and state and local civil
   defense agencies.

   2.3    General Tsunami Warning Center Responsibilities.

            a.     Each Center is responsible for detecting and locating
   earthquakes, determining their magnitudes, gathering and analyzing
   water level data and reports, issuing tsunami Watch /Warning and
   Information Bulletins, and for supplying those data to the other
   Center, to the National Earthquake Information Center (NEIC), and to
   others, as appropriate. Centers, within their AOR, are responsible for
   the maintenance of the NWS tide, seismic, and telemetry equipment and
   for the conduct of monthly communications tests.

            b.     The Centers, in coordination, develop techniques
   necessary to upgrade and improve the operational aspects of the TWS and
   interact with the ITIC and others such as NOAA's Pacific Marine
   Environmental Laboratory and the academic community in order to stay
   abreast of research in tsunami generation, detection. and forecasting.

            c.     The Centers also serve as collection sites for
   geomagnetic and/or seismic data under agreements with the U.S.
   Geological Survey and other United States and foreign agencies. During
   tsunami emergencies, routine functions for gathering, processing, and
   interpreting geophysical data for use in programs to monitor the
   earth's magnetic field; for regional, national, and global earthquake
   monitoring; and for strong motion and earthquake engineering, may be
   suspended temporarily.

            d.     Since areal responsibilities are such that the Centers
   may be responsible for different aspects of the same earthquake,
   maximum coordination efforts should always exist between the Centers.
   Epicenters and magnitudes shall be refined through coordination between
   warning centers, and when available, using data from the NEIC. The
   threshold for coordination shall be Ms 6.5.

            e.     Because the Centers must react to earthquakes 24-hours
   a day, Center personnel are required to live on the Center grounds when
   adequate Government housing is available or to live within a specified
   travel time of the Center.

            f.     The ATWC is the provider of tsunami watches, warnings,
   advisory and information bulletins and interpretive information to all
   interests in its AOR (Alaska, British Columbia, Washington, Oregon, and
   California) regardless of the location of the earthquake epicenter.

            g.     The PTWC is the provider of tsunami watches, warnings,
   information bulletins, and interpretive information to all interests in
   the Pacific Basin outside of the ATWC AOR regardless of the location of
   the earthquake epicenter.

   2.3.1    Alaska Tsunami Warning Center (ATWC).

           a.     General. The ATWC, located at Palmer, Alaska, has the
   primary responsibility for the detection, location, and determination
   of magnitude of potentially tsunamigenic earthquakes occurring in the
   area from Attu, Alaska, to the southern California border (including
   the west coast of British Columbia, Canada). It is responsible for the
   preparation and dissemination, as appropriate, of tsunami warnings,
   watches, advisory, and information bulletins to civilian and military
   officials in Alaska, Canada, Washington, Oregon, and California. It has
   a secondary responsibility for the performance of these activities
   related to earthquakes whose epicenters are outside of this area.
   Copies of tsunami warning logs shall be transmitted to the Tsunami
   Program Manager and WSH for all events resulting in the dissemination
   of tsunami bulletins.

            b.     Operations. As the Regional Tsunami Warning Center for
   Alaska, British Columbia, Washington, Oregon, and California, ATWC
   shall operate in accordance with the following procedures. For
   earthquakes occurring in:

   (1)    Alaska's Aleutian Islands (Attu to Unimak Pass). For initially
   determined Richter magnitudes greater than 7.0, a tsunami warning shall
   be issued covering an area with at least a 3-hour wave travel time from
   the time of expected bulletin issuance and a tsunami watch extending an
   additional 3-hour wave travel time. All watch and warning areas shall
   be described using the breakpoints shown in paragraph (6) below.

   (2)    Alaska Peninsula Gulf of Alaska. and United States/Canada West
   Coast (Unimak Pass to the California-Mexico Border). For initially
   determined Richter magnitudes greater than 7.0 but less than or equal
   to 7.5, ATWC shall issue a tsunami warning covering an area with at
   least a 2-hour wave travel time from the time of expected bulletin
   issuance and a tsunami watch expending one additional hour of wave
   travel time. For initially determined Richter magnitudes greater than
   7.5, a tsunami warning shall be issued covering an area with at least a
   3-hour travel time from the time of expected bulletin issuance and a
   tsunami watch extending an additional 3-hour wave travel time. All
   watch and warning areas shall be described using the breakpoints shown
   in paragraph (6) below.

   (3)    Alaska's Bering Sea. For initially determined Richter magnitudes
   greater than 7.0, a tsunami warning shall be issued covering St. Paul
   and St. George Islands and the Aleutian Islands (Attu to False Pass).
   There will be no watch area and the warning area will not be expanded,
   even if a significant tsunami is detected.

   (4)    Elsewhere in the Pacific Basin. For initially determined Richter
   magnitudes greater than 7.5 the ATWC, after coordinating with the PTWC,
   shall:

            (a)     When any part of the ATWC AOR is within 6 hours
   tsunami travel time from the epicenter issue a tsunami warning covering
   an area with at least a 3-hour wave travel time from the time of
   expected bulletin issuance and a tsunami watch extending another 3
   hours travel time. All warning and watch areas will be described using
   the breakpoints in paragraph (6) below, or

            (b)     When the epicenter is more than 6 hours tsunami travel
   time distant from any part of the ATWC AOR the ATWC shall issue a
   Tsunami Advisory Bulletin.

   (5)    ATWC will issue a Tsunami Information Bulletin whenever an
   earthquake with a Richter magnitude of 6.5 or greater, but below the
   watch/warning thresholds in (1) through (5) above, occurs within its
   AOR. ATWC, after coordination with PTWC, shall issue a Tsunami
   Information Bulletin for their AOR whenever an earthquake with a
   Richter magnitude from 6.5 to 7.5 occurs outside of the ATWC AOR.

   (6)    Breakpoints. When issuing tsunami watches/ warnings, the
   following breakpoints shall be used to define the extent of the watch
   or warning:

   Attu, AK
                                     Cape Flattery, WA
   Adak, AK
                                     Point Grenville, WA
   Nikolski, AK
                                     Clatsop Split, OR
   Unalaska, AK
                                     Cascade Head, OR
   Sand Point, AK
                                     Cape Blanco. OR
   Kodiak, AK
                                     Oregon-California Border
   Seward, AK
                                     Cape Mendocino, CA
   Yakutat, AK
                                     Point Sur, CA
   Sitka, AK
                                     Point Conception, CA
   Langara Island, BC
                                     California-Mexico Border
   Northern Tip Vancouver Island, BC

   Point Arena, CA

   Whenever the boundary of a watch or warning lies between two
   breakpoints, the watch or warning will be extended to, and include, the
   next breakpoint.

   2.3.2    Pacific Tsunami Warning Center (PTWC).

       a.     General. The PTWC, located at Ewa Beach, Oahu, Hawaii, has
   the responsibility for the detection, location, and determination of
   magnitudes for earthquakes occurring anywhere in the Pacific Basin. If
   these earthquakes are potentially tsunamigenic, PTWC prepares tsunami
   watches, warnings, and information bulletins and disseminates them,
   exclusive of the ATWC AOR, to the appropriate U.S. civil, U.S.
   military, and to foreign government concerns throughout the Pacific
   basin.

            b.     Operations: As the Regional Tsunami Warning Center for
   Hawaii, the National Tsunami Warning Center for the United States, and
   the International Tsunami Warning Center for the Pacific, PTWC shall
   operate in accordance with the following procedures.

   (1)     Regional Warning Center for Hawaii. For any earthquake
   occurring in the vicinity of the Hawaiian Islands, with an initially
   determined Richter magnitude greater than 6.8, PTWC shall issue a
   tsunami warning for the Hawaiian Islands in conformance with procedures
   coordinated with, and approved by, the Hawaii State Civil Defense.

   (2)     National Tsunami Warning Center. As the National Tsunami
   Warning Center for the United States, PTWC is responsible for the
   detection of tsunamis which threaten United States interests throughout
   the Pacific Basin. For any earthquake with an initially determined
   Richter magnitude greater than 7.5 (greater than 7.0 for Alaska's
   Aleutian Islands), PTWC, for areas excluding the ATWC AOR, shall issue
   a tsunami warning covering an area with approximately a 3-hour tsunami
   wave travel time from the expected time of bulletin issuance with a
   tsunami watch extended for the 3- to 6-hour tsunami wave travel time.
   The areas covered by the tsunami watch/warning shall be expanded hourly
   until data are received which will permit either the cancellation of
   the watch/warning or its upgrade to a Pacificwide warning.

   For earthquakes occurring in ATWC's AOR, PTWC shall not issue
   watches/warnings using the WEPA41 header (former AFOS PIL HNLTSUCP) for
   entry in Automation of Field Operations and Services equipment unless
   PTWC is backing up 4.

   Close coordination between ATWC and PTWC is of utmost importance to
   avoid conflicting bulletin information.

   (3)     International Tsunami Warning Center: The PTWC serves as the
   operational control center for the TWS of the Pacific. For any
   earthquake with an initially determined Richter magnitude greater than
   7.5 (7.0 for Alaska's Aleutian Islands), PTWC, for areas excluding the
   ATWC AOR, shall issue a tsunami warning covering an area with
   approximately a 3-hour tsunami wave travel time from the expected time
   of bulletin issuance with a tsunami watch extended for the 3- to 6-hour
   tsunami wave travel time. The areas covered by the tsunami
   watch/warning shall be expanded hourly until data are received which
   will permit either the cancellation of the watch/warning or its upgrade
   to a Pacific-wide warning. These bulletins shall be disseminated to the
   international participants as outlined in the COMM PLAN.

   (4)     For earthquakes below the magnitude thresholds in (2) and (3)
   above but magnitude 6.5 or greater, PTWC shall issue a Tsunami
   Information Bulletin.

   2.3.3    ATWC/PTWC Coordination. Given the Pacific-wide impact of some
   tsunami events, timely coordination between ATWC and PTWC is essential
   for the overall effectiveness of tsunami services.

            a.     As Regional Tsunami Warning Centers, both ATWC and PTWC
   are singularly responsible for the initial tsunami bulletin for
   earthquakes with epicenters located within their respective regional
   AORs. The initial bulletin should be disseminated within 15 minutes of
   the earthquake origin. All subsequent bulletins issued by each Center
   shall be fully coordinated, that is, issued immediately after
   coordination, contain a common evaluation, and reflect the actions
   being taken by the other Center.

            b.     When the ATWC and PTWC are both issuing bulletins for
   earthquakes whose epicenters are located outside h& their regional AORs
   the initial, and all subsequent, Watch/Warning, Advisory or Information
   Bulletins will be fully coordinated before issuance by EITHER Center.

            c.     In cases of disagreement:

                (1)     The determination of the location and magnitude to
   be used in the bulletins is the responsibility of the Center in whose
   AOR the epicenter is located.

                (2)     The decision as to whether to issue or cancel a
   watch/warning bulletin for its AOR is the responsibility of each
   Center.

            d.     Bulletin content and format shall be as specified in
   the COMM PLAN.

       2.3.4     Seismic Information Exchange and Dissemination. The NEIC,
   located in Golden, Colorado, as part of the U.S. Geological Survey, has
   the United States national responsibility for disseminating information
   on earthquakes occurring worldwide. The NWS tsunami program, except in
   response to tsunamigenic and potentially tsunamigenic earthquakes, will
   generally not disseminate or directly answer inquiries for seismic
   information. Separate from the exchange of information between Centers
   and with the NEIC, the ATWC and PTWC shall adhere to the following
   policy on the dissemination of seismic information:

            a.     For tsunamigenic or potentially tsunamigenic
   earthquakes (preliminary Richter magnitude 6.5 or greater), no
   restrictions exist on the exchange of seismic data with any
   observatory. The decision as to whether an earthquake is "potentially
   tsunamigenic" rests with the Center whose AOR contains the earthquake
   epicenter.

            b.     For nontsunamigenic, strong teleseisms with epicenters
   located outside the Center's area of responsibility, inquiries from the
   news media or civil/military emergency service authorities will be
   referred to the NEIC.

            c.     For nontsunamigenic, strong teleseisms with epicenters
   located within the Center's area of responsibility, information about
   the earthquake that is to be disseminated in response to inquiries from
   the news media or civil/military emergency service authorities will
   also be transmitted to the NEIC duty geophysicists at the time of
   release.

            d.     For nontsunamigenic, local/regional earthquakes with
   felt reports, information about the earthquake (usually Richter
   magnitude 5.0 or greater) that is to be disseminated in response to
   inquiries from the news media or civil/military emergency service
   authorities will also be transmitted to the NEIC duty geophysicists at
   the time of release.

            e.     For nontsunamigenic, local/regional earthquakes with no
   felt reports, inquiries about the earthquake will be referred to the
   NEIC.

            f.     For nontsunamigenic earthquakes, all requests from
   foreign agencies for data will be referred to the NEIC.

       2.3.5     International Tsunami Information Center (ITIC). The ITIC
   is operated for the United Nations Educational Scientific, and Cultural
   Organization's IOC. Located at the PRH, the ITIC was established upon
   request of the IOC and is maintained by the NWS to strengthen the TWS
   and to assist member nations in mitigating the effects of tsunamis
   throughout the Pacific. The mandate and functions of the ITIC are given
   in IOC Resolution X-23, November 1977, and amended by IOC/Executive
   Council-XXI March 1988. The principal duties of the ITIC are to:

            a.     Monitor the international tsunami warning activities in
   the Pacific and recommend improvements;

            b.     Provide Pacific countries information on the TWS, the
   affairs of ITIC, and how to join in the activities of the ICG/ITSU:

            c.     Assist member states of ITSU in the establishment of
   regional and national warning systems and in the improvement of
   preparedness;

            d.     Gather and promulgate knowledge on tsunamis and foster
   research and its application;

            e.     Cooperate with the World Data Centers in collecting
   tsunami data information; and

            f.     Assist national authorities in making investigations of
   all aspects of major tsunamis and develop standard survey procedures
   for such investigations.

   The Director, ITIC, shall report directly to the appropriate IOC
   authorities on matters not affecting NWS operations or U.S. policy.

   The Director, ITIC, shall be responsible for funds allocated to the
   ITIC by the IOC. The Director, ITIC, reports for administrative
   purposes to the Director, Pacific Region, who is responsible for
   logistical and financial support within limits set by the NWS.

   The position of Associate Director, ITIC, when occupied, shall be
   funded by a foreign member state of ITSU and/or the IOC. The Associate
   Director shall report directly to the Director, ITIC.

   3.     Earthquake Seismology. The primary method of detecting
   earthquakes is through a network of seismic stations. ATWC and PTWC
   receive seismic data from a network of stations operated by the NWS and
   other domestic and foreign governments and cooperating agencies.
   Seismic data are transmitted to the warning centers through various
   telemetric channels. These data allow ATWC and PTWC to locate and size
   an earthquake, and therefore, determine the earthquake's potential for
   tsunami generation. The seismic stations participating in the TWS
   follow the reporting procedures detailed in the COMM PLAN.

   4.     Tidal Data. Tide stations in the TWS are operated by a wide
   variety of agencies, foreign and domestic, and include a number of NWS
   installations. These stations detect tsunamis by means of recording
   tide gauges. Data from a number of tide stations are telemetered to the
   warning centers. Some submit reports to the warning centers when
   requested or on their own initiative whenever a tsunami is detected.
   Other tide stations report in real time via dedicated telemetry
   circuits or have their data relayed in near real time via the U.S.
   Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite (GOES) and the
   Japanese Meteorological Satellite (GMS). The National Ocean Service
   operates and maintains the Next Generation Water Level Measurement
   System which also transmits tide data over GOES. Reporting procedures
   for tide stations are detailed in the IOC manual, Wave Reporting
   Procedures for Tide Observers in the Tsunami Warning System, 1988,
   UNESCO, and is available through the ITIC in English, French, Spanish,
   and Russian. A copy of this publication should be maintained at all
   tide stations in the system.

   5.     Dissemination. Dissemination agencies provide the last vital
   link between the TWS and the public. Dissemination agencies have the
   responsibility for evaluating the tsunami information received from the
   warning centers, for educating the public as to the danger of tsunamis
   and for developing those procedures that must be taken to avoid loss of
   life and property. State civil defense agencies and the NWS have joint
   responsibility for passing tsunami watch, warning, advisory, and
   information bulletins to the public. Where feasible, NOAA Weather Radio
   should be used to relay tsunami information. Regional headquarters
   shall provide guidelines for such usage.

   6.     Damage Surveys. Tsunamis that cause five or more fatalities,
   numerous injuries and/or major property damage in the United States or
   its possessions, may be classified as significant natural disasters and
   a regional survey team should be dispatched to the affected area. The
   dispatching of this team should be in accordance with NOAA directives
   and WSOM Chapter J-06, Natural Disaster Survey. The TPM and the
   Integrated Hydrometeorology Services Core (W/OM12) shall be notified
   when a survey team is being dispatched. Special attention should be
   given to obtaining information on the timing and magnitude of
   individual waves in the tsunami and of the limits of inundation.

   Tsunamis that cause moderate to severe damage in countries other than
   the United States may also be classified as major natural disasters and
   an ITIC survey team may be requested by IOC to survey the affected
   area. Coordination for international disaster surveys not requested by
   IOC shall be handled by WSH and the Department of State (DOS), who are
   responsible for coordinating all surveys outside the United States or
   its possessions. Only after a formal request has been submitted to DOS
   by the affected foreign country shall a survey team be organized to
   investigate tsunami damage and inundation in that country.

   Under special circumstances, such as in Pacific-wide tsunamis a survey
   team may be dispatched before formal requests for assistance from
   specific countries have been coordinated with WSH and/or DOS. NWS
   personnel may survey these affected areas under the auspices of ITIC
   but only when so designated by WSH or DOS. Personnel from other NOAA
   components may also participate in these surveys. Non-NWS personnel,
   such as the ITIC Associate Director, may proceed directly to the
   disaster area to conduct surveys irrespective of approvals from WSH or
   DOS. However, travel paid for with NWS funds must be approved by
   regional headquarters.

   ITIC is in part responsible for developing the appropriate survey
   procedures in order to obtain accurate and meaningful tsunami run-up
   and earthquake data. Standardized survey instructions and procedures
   are made available to all participating nations by ITIC so that these
   countries can make their own surveys if they so desire.

    7.     Communications Plan for the Tsunami Warning System. The COMM
   PLAN for the TWS serves as the operations manual for participants in
   the TWS.

    7.1     Description. The COMM PLAN provides a general overview of the
   nature of tsunamis and a brief history of the warning service. It lists
   the tide and seismograph stations which participate in the service, the
   preferred methods of communication between the stations and the tsunami
   warning centers, the criteria for reporting, and gives examples of
   tsunami bulletin formats and content.

   All countries that may be affected by tsunami generated in the area
   covered by the TWS, including all United States participants, are
   listed by section in the COMM PLAN. These sections detail the methods
   by which various tsunami bulletins are sent and received. Sample
   bulletins and the criteria under which they are issued are also
   included.

   A separate appendix to the COMM PLAN discusses the ATWC stating the
   criteria under which its watches and warnings are issued and its
   communications method.

   7.2     Responsibility. PRH is responsible for the preparation and
   dissemination of the COMM PLAN and coordinating its preparation and
   update between ATWC and PTWC. It will be routinely updated each year in
   January and July.

   WSOM Issuance
   96-1 1-25-96
