http://www.crab.wa.gov/annualreport/2001AnnualReport/AnnRep2001.pdf

   - - A ADDM MIIN NIIS ST TR RA AT TIIO ON N - - The County Road
   Administration Board (CRAB) was created by the Legislature in 1965 to
   provide regulatory oversight to the thirty-nine county road departments
   through development of Standards of Good Practice. The Board,
   consisting of six county commissioners/council persons and three county
   engineers representing various sizes of counties across the state,
   governs the agency's activities. Responsibilities, given by the
   Legislature, include maintaining the inventory of all county roads and
   bridges (roadlog), and administering the distribution of the county
   portion of the state motor vehicle fuel tax. In addition, the
   Legislature has given CRAB the responsibility to administer the Rural
   Arterial and County Arterial Preservation Programs and the County Ferry
   Capital Improvement Program and to insure that counties make effective
   use of transportation-related information technology. CRAB regulates
   the counties by developing mandatory uniform practices relating to the
   administration of county roads and the safe and efficient movement of
   people and goods over county roads. CRAB provides management and
   technical programs and assistance to enable counties to attain and
   maintain compliance with the Standards of Good Practice. The CRABoard
   meets in Olympia at the CRAB Office. 1 - - G GRRAAN NT T PPRRO OG GR RA
   AM MS S - - Gas Tax Provides RAP and CAPP Taken as a small portion of
   the statewide fuel tax in Washington State, the County Road
   Administration Board's two county road funding programs, the County
   Arterial Preservation Program (CAPP) and the Rural Arterial Program
   (RAP), play a major role ensuring that freight haul and access to
   agricultural markets in local areas are adequate to meet the need on
   over 13,000 miles of road. The CAPP generates approximately $26 million
   per biennium and RAP about $38 million. Less than 3% of this revenue is
   used for administration. Gas Tax Distribution per Gallon (23 cents
   total) WSDOT (Highways) 10.96 TIB 3.04 Cities (Ferries) 2.46 WSDOT CRAB
   1.03 Counties 1.08 [RAP - 0.58 4.43 CAPP - 0.45] 2 Two Programs,
   Different Uses. The County Arterial Preservation Program and the Rural
   Arterial Program provide road improvements, often from opposite ends of
   existing road condition. In 2001, CAPP funds helped counties
   rehabilitate and preserve the structure of roads that were otherwise
   healthy, and need to stay that way. The total cost statewide of this
   CAPP assisted preservation work this year ($41,000,000 total,
   $13,000,000 CAPP) was large, but not nearly as expensive as letting
   roads with borderline surface conditions continue to deteriorate. Lane
   Miles of Preservation Work 1990 - 2000 Seals 48,010 Thin Leveling
   Overlays 2,229 Structural 6,754 Overlays 4,551 3 RAP Fixes Most Road
   Maladies RAP funds, on the other hand, have helped counties rebuild and
   upgrade roads that were below traffic and safety standards and whose
   surfaces were deteriorating too quickly for normal maintenance repairs.
   Larger in scope and cost than preservation work, RAP projects corrected
   bad horizontal and vertical curves, removed roadside hazards, widened
   narrow sections, and rebuilt road structure sections that were failing
   deep in the sub-base. RAP funds paid for a significant portion of
   county road construction costs in 2001, providing $20,000,000 of the
   total $292,635,000. RAP - Project Averages 1.8 Total Project Cost 1.6
   RAP Funding 1.4 1.2 1.0 0.8 0.6 Dollars in Millions 0.4 0.2 0.0 '91-'93
   '93-'95 '95-'97 '97-'99 '99-'01 '01-'03 Biennium RAP funds have
   continued to grow in popularity over the years as a resource for large
   reconstruction projects. Counties often turn to RAP funds to quickly
   accomplish projects that would otherwise be tied up in more complicated
   application and mitigation requirements. 4 2001 Grant Program Projects
   Clark County Uses CAPP Funds to Restore NE 212th Avenue - A good
   example of the CAPP's usefulness for resurfacing was the work performed
   by Clark County to revitalize NE 212 Avenue this year. The failing
   surfacing material was first ground down to the soil and Portland
   cement was then mixed with the surfacing materials to produce an 8-inch
   base. This composite material was graded, compacted and coated with a
   bituminous seal to lock in the chemical action needed for full curing.
   After 7 days the road was paved with a 2-1/2 inch ACP overlay to
   protect and strengthen the road. Deflection testing had earlier
   indicated a 3-1/2 inch ACP overlay was required, but with the base
   stabilization work, the thickness was reduced significantly, saving
   taxpayers about $49,000. The old surface was failing fast. CAPP funded
   paving assures longer road life. M&M Road Recycle Inc., of Redmond, WA.
   did the base stabilization, while the overlay work was performed by
   Western States Paving Company, of Vancouver, WA. Total project cost
   came to $135,000 with CAPP supplying $76,000 of that amount. Local
   residents are very pleased with the rebuilt NE 212 Avenue. 5 CRAB Uses
   RAP to Pay for Emergency Road Damage - The CRABoard has taken care to
   ensure that enough RAP funds are available to promptly help counties
   that suffer emergency road damage from time to time. Whether caused by
   earthquakes, floods, or unexpected agricultural or residential
   development, counties with emergency road damage can make immediate
   repairs knowing these funds are there, and that repair cost can be
   quickly reimbursed. The emergency funding of Okanogan County's Chesaw
   Road this year was a good example of CRAB's responsiveness to this type
   of damage. Chesaw Road traverses the rugged terrain from Oroville to
   Chesaw, 20 miles east. It provides residents vital access to commerce,
   employment and emergency services. On July 12, 2001 approximately 5
   inches of rain fell on the surrounding hills for a one-hour time
   period, and eroded the road to one lane in several locations. County
   Commissioners closed the road for public safety reasons, thereby
   isolating the town of Chesaw. CRAB staff quickly made a site visit and
   on July 19, 2001 the CRABoard approved $400,000 in funding for the
   repairs needed to open the road to traffic again. Flash flooding
   removes a large section of the road. Cleaned up and ready for traffic.
   The timely road inspection by CRABstaff and consideration of the Chesaw
   Road funding request demonstrated RAP's readiness to meet emergency
   needs on county arterial roads. 6 Clallam County Continues Old Olympic
   Highway Upgrades - Constructed originally as a northern pan-peninsula
   state highway around 1900, Old Olympic Highway has maintained its
   original width and alignment for many years. Maintaining the surface
   quality with minor pavement improvements sufficed to meet motorist
   needs for a while, but due to residential growth (and 2500 vehicles a
   day) the county has been overhauling much of its length. The latest of
   six RAP funded improvements (now totaling over $2,500,000 in RATA
   funding) was awarded to Bruch and Bruch Construction of Port Angeles.
   The project rebuilt a half- mile section between the northeast portion
   of Clallam County and the cities of Port Angeles and Sequim and now has
   a 40-foot wide asphalt surface with 6:1 side slopes. PUD transmission
   poles were relocated out of the clear zone and an irrigation ditch was
   channeled through the storm sewer system for approximately 1200 feet to
   reduce right of way impacts. Clallam County pulverized and re-compacted
   the existing bituminous road surface so it coul d be re-used as a high
   quality base for the new pavement. The total cost was $750,000 with RAP
   paying $411,136 of that amount. These latest improvements are just one
   more step in the long-term upgrade to Old Olympic Highway, and were
   well worth CRAB's support and Clallam County's time and effort. Utility
   poles and parked vehicles dangerously intrude on the road's clear zone.
   Wide shoulders and slopes make safety a reality. 7 King County Replaces
   Novelty Bridge - The Novelty Bridge is located on NE 124th Street,
   which serves truck, recreational and commuter traffic into and through
   the Snoqualmie Valley in central King County. The original bridge,
   built in 1920, was high on the federal replacement array because it was
   narrow and weak. Poor sight distance due to vertical curvature
   compounded these unsafe conditions and signs were posted limiting
   traffic to one legal load at a time. Work commences, removing the old
   bridge. The new bridge is a safe and "novel" driving experience. The
   replacement work was contracted to Wilder Construction Company, which
   replaced the existing 20-foot wide substandard truss bridge with a tied
   arch bridge. The new bridge has a curb-to-curb width of 40 feet,
   providing two 12-foot tr - avel lanes and two 8 foot shoulders. The old
   bridge - in its' younger days. The new bridge - ready for use. Thanks
   to King County's attention to replacing obsolete bridges and the help
   provided by federal and RATA funds, a decisive improvement has been
   made to the safety and riding comfort of local commuters in this rural
   area. 8 Kittitas Rebuilds Look Road -Kittitas County accomplished
   reconstruction work on Look Road that resolved major alignment,
   structural and drainage problems. A portion of the roadway was located
   on the easterly boundary of the Kittitas County Airport (Bowers Field),
   restricting its realignment options. The final plan increased the
   radius of the existing curves and realigned the bordering section away
   from the airport. This maintained the standard 50 mile per hour design
   speed required for the project. D ainag r e improvements resolved
   environmental concerns and the need for irrigation water. Two large box
   culverts where installed in Mercer Creek replacing two very undersized
   drainage structures. In order to accomplish these improvements the
   county worked closely with the Washington State Department of Fish and
   Wildlife throughout culvert design and construction. The end result
   greatly improved water flow and enhanced fish passage. The old Look
   Road traversed The new road, shored up, realigned damp, irrigated land
   and properly drained. During roadway construction, a considerable
   amount of unsuitable material was encountered in existing and new
   alignment areas. This material, clearly deficient in road support
   qualities, caused continual failure of the road and its surface over
   the years. It was therefore removed and replaced with small rip rap,
   other select rock and gravel to provide a suitable base for the
   roadway. Goodfellow Brothers, Inc., of Wenatchee, WA, performed the
   construction project at a total cost of nearly $1.6 million dollars,
   with RAP contributing $756,445. The Look Road Project demonstrates
   Kittitas County's co t mmi ment to resolve all import ant road
   construction issues in an orde l r y, conscientious manner. The results
   are the multiple benefits of improvements to: irrigation, roadway
   strength, traffic safety, and fish habitat. 9 Snohomish County
   Overhauls Busy Pioneer Highway Intersection - Pioneer Highway's
   intersection with 212th Street NE became a high priority for
   improvement by the county for a number of reasons. Over 4000 vehicles a
   day travel this section between Interstate 5 and rural farming and
   residential areas south of Stanwood. This popularity resulted in the
   severe traffic impacts of dangerous turning movements and pavement
   failure. 212th's approach angle gave cars accessing Pioneer little room
   for error, while drivers turning left off Pioneer Highway nervously
   waited in the through lane for an opportunity to exit. Channelization
   and widening allow safe, Sneak-in approaches are unsafe. direct
   approach. With the help of $230,000 in RATA funding ($460,000 total
   project cost) the county designed and constructed a "T" Intersection to
   replace the "Y" shaped approach of 212th. Widened shoulders and the
   addition of a left turn "holding lane" increased the comfort and safety
   of drivers making turning decisions on Pioneer Highway. The project is
   a perfect example of Snohomish County's close and effective attention
   to traffic movement and safety issues on the large arterial road system
   for which they are responsible. 10 Stevens County Improves 2.23 Miles
   of the Orin-Rice Road - The Orin- Rice Road is a major east-west
   collector connecting State Route 395 and State Route 25. As traffic
   volumes increased over the years, road deficiencies such as inadequate
   lane and shoulder widths, road surface deterioration, substandard
   intersections, and limited sight distance demonstrated the need for
   reconstruction. Steep grades (in excess of 13%) also contributed to
   hazardous winter driving conditions. After over ten years in the
   planning, design, and right-of-way acquisition phases, the project
   finally went to construction in 2000. Walker's Paving, of Warden WA,
   built the improvements costing $1,760,000 of which $950,000 came from
   the Rural Arterial Trust Account and the remaining from Federal and
   Local sources. Reconstruction widened the roadway. The old road was
   narrow and had a deficient surface. The project relocated a major
   intersection. The project realigned several areas, widened the roadway
   surface and shoulders, and relocated an existing intersection 1,300
   feet north of its previous location. Two keystone retaining walls were
   built to accommodate the new alignment. Cement treated base was
   incorporated into the subgrade, Asphalt Concrete Pavement Class B was
   applied, and guardrail was installed throughout most of the project.
   Thanks to Stevens County's efforts, O i r n-Rice i w ll continue to be
   the r l e ia l b e and safe rout e that loc l a re i s dent , s farmer
   s and visitors need. 11 Whitman County Rehabilitates Rosalia Bridge
   -The Rosalia Bridge reflects the region's emergence into high
   production wheat farming. The bridge is located on the Inland Empire
   Highway, which is a state highway of regional significance used to
   transport grain to distribution centers such as Rosalia, about one mile
   to the north. Before the bridge was built in 1930, farmers suffered
   periodic setbacks trying to cross the normally dry, but sometimes
   flooding Pine Creek. The Washington State Department of Transportation
   finally built a bridge across the creek and haul was much easier. Over
   these many years however, the bridge deteriorated and became a serious
   safety and maintenance concern. The bridge won Federal and RATA
   rehabilitation funding in 1997 due to these conditions. Maladies
   associated with aging of joints and columns were the focus of most of
   the corrective work. Worn bearing seats, failing columns, and
   obstructed expansion joints were among the items repaired. End
   abutments were also anchored to prevent further creep. The bridge was
   re-surfaced and the old cable guardrail system was replaced with
   standard guardrail. Spartan maintenance repair efforts Column
   replacement required held the failed column in place. jacking the
   bridge. Weak concrete near joints was removed. New guardrail and
   surfacing complete the job. The contractor for the project was N. A.
   Degerstrom Incorporated, of Spokane WA. The project cost a total of
   $346,609.00 with RAP paying $69,536 of that amount. Thanks to Whitman
   County's effective use of combined Federal, RAP and local funds, the
   repaired Rosalia Bridge is more reliable, and easier to maintain. 12 -
   - EEN NG GIIN NEEEER RIIN NG G S SEERRVVIICCEESS -- The Engineering
   Services Division provides continuing support and assistance to
   counties in a variety of areas. The Division is responsible for the
   maintenance of the County Roadlog and the computations and updates to
   the distribution of the counties' share of the motor vehicle fuel tax
   as well as management of the reports and other information necessary
   for recommendations related to the Annual Certificate of Good Practice
   for each county. In addition, the Division is responsible for the
   maintenance and updating of the County Engineers' and Public Works
   Directors' Manual and the provision of training to County Engineers and
   their staffs. CRAB acts as a clearinghouse for questions and for the
   exchange of ideas. With an emphasis on good communication, Engineering
   Services has worked with both planning and public works departments as
   they strive to meet the transportation needs of their counties. To keep
   abreast of future changes, Engineering Services staff participate in
   various interagency work groups on such issues as least-cost planning
   methodologies, rural mobility needs, watershed planning, environmental
   permitting, and urban design issues. The Division also strives to stay
   informed and to share information about emerging issues impacting
   county public works departments. Issues currently meriting such
   attention are the Endangered Species Act, GASB 34 financial reporting
   requirements, and asset management. In 2001, Engineering Services began
   a major long-term effort focusing on Maintenance Management. Pacific
   County Fowler Road Project  CAPP Funded. 13 Maintenance Management The
   intent of the maintenance management initiative is to increase the use
   of formal maintenance management systems in county maintenance
   operations rather than to tell counties how to perform their
   maintenance activities. By implementing Standards of Good Practice
   related to maintenance management, counties will be encouraged to
   examine their maintenance processes and to look for ways to improve
   upon the various activities being performed. During the initial phase
   of the effort, CRAB's Maintenance Program Managers conducted a survey
   and met with counties to review current maintenance management
   programs. Survey results together with follow-up discussions with the
   counties showed that, while there are many examples of good maintenance
   management programs being used in the counties, actual maintenance
   practices vary widely throughout the state. CRAB intends to use the
   good examples to promote the application of improved maintenance
   management practices. CRAB is also working to include a specific
   maintenance management system (MMS) tool in the Mobility software for
   county use in managing maintenance operations. Computer software
   modeling techniques are being defined in preparation for actual program
   development. One of the challenges yet to be addressed is the increased
   focus on system integration, specifically the integration of Public
   Works information with varied county accounting systems. County Freight
   and Goods System In 2000, the Legislature provided funding for CRAB to
   report on the County Freight and Goods System. The funds were used to
   provide classifying traffic counters for the counties, so they could
   obtain truck volume and classification information. The results of
   their studies were included in the County Roadlog. Using this updated
   information, CRAB prepared the 'County Freight and Goods System - 2001
   Status Report'. The Status Report was presented to the Legislative
   Transportation Committees, along with the counties and other interested
   agencies in February 2001. The counties are including truck
   classification and volume studies in their annual traffic counting
   programs. CRAB is currently preparing the 'County Freight and Goods
   System - 2002 Status Report'. 14 -- IIN NFFO OR RM MA AT TIIO ON N S
   SEERRVVIICCEESS  A critical function of the CRAB mission is to provide
   our counties with products, services, and assistance that enable them
   to comply with standards of good practice and to operate in an
   efficient and effective manner. The following articles illustrate the
   assistance given to counties by our Information Services Division and
   the citizen benefit from the effective application of good business
   practices by our counties. Design Systems CRAB provides Washington
   counties with engineering design software along with support and
   training, at little or no cost, that enables them to maximize the
   design of road improvements through enhanced revision and alternative
   analysis. One key to our counties' successful use of the CRAB design
   software is effective training and support. This year with the
   acquisition of new training equipment and a new training room in
   Olympia, CRAB is better able to ensure a high level of competence
   amongst our county design staff. Here the design team from Thurston
   County Public Works; Bernie Clemente, Randy Evans, Bala Ramaya, and Sam
   Lawrence are receiving training in Eagle Point's RoadCalc module on how
   to properly construct a typical roadway section detail. CRAB prides
   itself in offering our counties training courses suited for both
   engineering and surveying professionals. These courses reaffirm our
   commitment to our county partners. No one can match the level of
   knowledge and real life experience that our certified and licensed
   trainer can provide. In addition to step-by-step instruction using
   practical design solutions, users learn timesaving shortcuts. Each
   student also receives a comprehensive training manual and data files
   that can be taken back to the office to be used as a valuable reference
   guide. Small class size ensures that students receive the maximum
   amount of attention from the instructors. Students are taught using
   real-life examples, providing them with skills that can be applied
   immediately upon return to the office. 15 At times, training can be
   much more effective if given to an individual county's design team in
   their office. CRAB's design engineer, Jim Ayres, made many county
   visits this year offering expert consulting and training. Shown above
   is a training session that CRAB Shown here is a Douglas County held at
   Walla Walla County for Thom Scott, training session with Greg Peterson,
   Roger Rowe, Traci Hoffman and Joe Bowles. Bruce Dawson and Anna
   Colinas. The discipline of road design can be quite complex and the
   software tools used in this discipline are necessarily complex yet,
   believe it or not, software such as the Eagle Point RoadCalc, shown
   above, are very intuitive and become second nature to our county design
   staff after appropriate training. 16 Management Systems Mobility is a
   set of management systems, developed by CRAB, and poised for
   implementation in the counties during 2002. Mobility will replace the
   CRAB developed CRIS system which has been used effectively by counties
   for fourteen years, but is now outdated. Mobility, with its
   comprehensive road inventories and management systems inherited from
   CRIS, enables Washington counties to make informed decisions and
   develop sound business and operational strategies. The Mobility
   Introductory Campaign was instituted this year as a method of
   introducing Washington State county personnel to the new Mobility
   Software. The focus of the presentation is to familiarize users with
   the functionality of the new product, to disseminate our
   accomplishments, publicize our development schedule and to make known
   anticipated minimum system requirements. All 39 counties will have had
   the opportunity to attend a local presentation by the end of this year.
   The Mobility Development Team recently demonstrated the new Mobility
   Software at the 2001 Road Design Conference, to the CRAB Board, and the
   Washington State Geographic Information Council. During the last part
   of the year the Mobility Development Team will initiate the second
   phase of preparation by individually visiting each county to assist in
   the necessary process of preparing existing CRIS data for import into
   the new Mobility software. 17 Technical Assistance Along with providing
   and supporting Design and Management systems, CRAB offers a variety of
   other services that foster professionalism and encourage the sharing,
   cooperative environment enjoyed by our county road departments. A prime
   example would be our 12th annual Road Design Conference held this
   October. Onsite training was a new event at the Road Design Conference
   this year. Attended by design professionals from 27 counties, the
   WSDOT, and the BIA, our conference featured respected speakers from the
   software industry such as Eagle Point, AutoDesk, Etterra, PacifiCAD,
   and Portland Precision. The benefits of the information exchange,
   networking and presentations by county personnel to each other is
   immeasurable. The CRAB website is another example of one-stop shopping
   for technical and organizational assistance. The variety of articles,
   forms, model ordinances, draft policies, resolutions, links to
   resources and our knowledge base effectively demonstrate the
   economy-of-scale unique to the structure of the CRAB. As a service to
   our counties CRAB has also hosted numerous entities' websites until
   they could establish their own webservers. Such organizations as FMSIB,
   WSAC, County Risk Pool, WSACE, County Surveyors, Public Works Board,
   and seven counties got their web start at CRAB. 18 -- T TAABBLLEESS  T
   Taabbllee A A:: CCoouunnttyy B Brriiddggee D DA AT TA A
   .............................................. 2200 T Taabbllee B B:: A
   Accttuuaall CCoouunnttyy R Rooaadd
   EExxppeennddiittuurreess.................... 2211 T Taabbllee CC:: A
   Annttiicciippaatteedd CCoouunnttyy R Rooaadd FFuunndd R Reevveennuueess
   .... 2222 T Taabbllee D D:: A Annttiicciippaatteedd CCoouunnttyy R
   Rooaadd FFuunndd E Exxppeennddiittuurreess
   .......................................................... 2233 T
   Taabbllee EE:: CCoouunnttyy R Rooaadd LLeevvyy S Suum mm maarryy
   ................................ 2244 T Taabbllee FF:: CCoouunnttyy R
   Rooaadd M Miilleeaaggee................................................
   2255 T Taabbllee G G:: CCoouunnttyy A Arrtteerriiaall
   PPrreesseerrvvaattiioonn PPrrooggrraam m.......... 2266 T Taabbllee H
   H:: FFrreeiigghhtt aanndd G Gooooddss
   .................................................... 2277 19 20 21 22
   23 24 25 26 27
