http://www.teale.ca.gov/about/stephen.asp

      Welcome to California California Home Wednesday, January 30, 2002
                            Welcome to California
   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
                skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree


                         Teale Home Page
                         About Us
                         Services
                         Events
                         Teale News
                         Job Opportunities
                         Portfolio
                         Our Customers
                         Resources for Our Customers

                        Stephen P. Teale Data Center


   Serving California Government for 30 Years
   A Tribute to Stephen P. Teale Photo of Senator Stephen P. Teale

   From time to time, Teale receives inquiries regarding the name of the
   Data Center. Many are not aware of the important contributions made by
   Senator Stephen P. Teale which resulted in a more efficient and
   improved government for the State of California.

   In 1972, the Business and Services Consolidated Data Center was formed
   with the passage of Senate Bill 1503. State Senator Stephen P. Teale,
   who sponsored this legislation, retired that same year and to honor his
   efforts, the Department was renamed the Stephen P. Teale Data Center.

   Senator Teale was born in San Francisco and graduated from Fresno State
   College and the California College of Medicine. He completed his
   internship and residency at what was then the Los Angeles County
   General Hospital.

   In 1948, a few years after settling in Calaveras County, he was elected
   to the Board of Supervisors and then was later elected to the Senate in
   1953. For nearly two decades, Senator Teale performed both as a
   physician and a politician in Calaveras County until the Legislature
   became a full-time job in 1966.

   Senator Teale represented a sprawling district covering 12 counties -
   Stanislaus, Modoc, Tuolumne, Alpine, Calaveras, Amador, El Dorado,
   Placer, Nevada, Sierra, Plumas and Lassen. He was a key legislator who
   trimmed budgets, cultivated social reform and encouraged development of
   a centralized state computer system. He was third in seniority among
   the Senate's 40 members when he retired in 1972.

   After leaving the California Senate, Senator Teale served on the State
   Postsecondary Education Commission. He was 80 years old at the time of
   his death in February 1997.



                           __________ search
                        ( ) My CA (*) This Site

                           About Us


                             About Us Main Page
                          * Contacting Teale
                          * Organization
                          * Strategic Plan (pdf)
                          * Who was Stephen P. Teale?



                             Back to Top of Page

     © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
     Privacy Policy
