http://regs.dot.gov/small.htm

                        DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION

                      SMALL ENTITY ENFORCEMENT POLICIES


   Under section 223 of SBREFA, agencies must establish a policy or
   program “to provide for the reduction, and under appropriate
   circumstances for the waiver, of civil penalties for violations of a
   statutory or regulatory requirement by a small entity. Under
   appropriate circumstances, an agency may consider ability to pay in
   determining penalty assessments on small entities.” The agency policy
   or program must have conditions or exclusions.

   Office of the Secretary (OST)

   On April 1, 1997, OST published a Policy Statement on the rights of
   small entities in OST enforcement cases, specifically the criteria for
   the reduction and waiver of civil penalties. The policy closely tracks
   the requirements of Section 223, setting forth the factors that we will
   be considering in assessing penalties against small entities (e.g.,
   ability to pay or whether the violation is corrected quickly). It
   applies to our aviation economic and Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act
   enforcement cases.

   United States Coast Guard (USCG)

   The USCG already evaluates when small entities should be subject to
   reduced civil penalties and mitigates the penalties based upon the
   violator's ability to pay. On July 16, 1997, it published in the
   Federal Register its policy on the rights of small entities in USCG
   enforcement actions. USCG has expanded its program so that its civil
   penalty hearing officers solicit from alleged violators, at an early
   stage, information that will help the USCG identify which violations
   were committed by small entities and thereafter determine whether a
   penalty should be waived or reduced under SBREFA. Before they can apply
   the waiver program, hearing officers must hear evidence from the
   violator to confirm that they corrected the violation, and that the
   violation did not pose a significant threat to health, safety, or the
   environment. The USCG authorizes its personnel to issue warnings,
   rather than impose penalties, for minor violations that are corrected
   promptly. It also initiated a “pollution ticket” program that offers a
   significantly reduced penalty for first and second time minor
   violations of some environmental requirements.

   Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)

   Generally, when determining the amount of a civil penalty, the FAA
   takes into consideration ability to pay. It plans to continue this
   policy. It also has policies that, in some cases, result in the waiver
   of civil penalties for some businesses that voluntarily report
   violations and take immediate corrective action. In addition, in
   settling civil penalty cases, it sometimes forgives part of the penalty
   on the basis of a company's investment in safety or security measures
   that exceed the minimum requirements of the regulations. The FAA is
   coordinating a specific SBREFA policy with its other enforcement
   policies.

   The FAA is adding a section to its sanction guidance outlining in one
   place the considerations that are available to small entities and how
   they can comment on the enforcement activity conducted by agency
   personnel.

   Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)

   FHWA has a memorandum establishing its enforcement policy with respect
   to small businesses. The policy, which tracks SBREFA, reiterates FHWA's
   existing policy. The Office of Motor Carriers (OMC) has a Motor Carrier
   Administrative Training Manual (MCATM), which provides that the
   enforcement official should take into consideration the violator's
   size, gross revenues, resources, and FHWA's existing standards in
   determining whether to charge the maximum potential assessment. After
   the claim is issued, the violator may submit evidence reflecting on its
   ability to pay the assessment, or to continue in business if payment is
   required. This evidence may be considered in mitigation and settlement
   of the amount claimed.

   In addition, OMC uses “Uniform Fine Assessment” software in enforcement
   proceedings to ensure fair, consistent penalties on a national basis.
   An entity's gross revenue (i.e., its size) is the most prominent factor
   used in the software to determine appropriate civil penalties. By
   generating penalties that are proportional to the size of the carrier,
   relief is provided to approximately 90 percent of the carriers who are
   small businesses.

   Nearly two-thirds of the prosecutable violations found during the
   approximately 10,000 compliance reviews of motor carriers that FHWA and
   the States conduct each year are resolved administratively without
   penalties being assessed. The FHWA generally uses its enforcement
   authority as a tool of last resort, in cases involving chronic
   noncompliance or acute safety violations. The FHWA is now making
   additional efforts toward reducing penalties in those instances where a
   small entity has provided timely evidence of corrective actions. The
   FHWA is amending its Rules of Practice to incorporate this policy.

   Research and Special Programs Administration (RSPA)

   Office of Pipeline Safety (OPS) regional offices coordinate all civil
   penalty enforcement actions with its Compliance Officer prior to
   issuing a notice letter to a pipeline operator. This ensures consistent
   penalties for similar violations. The Compliance Officer will consider
   statutory criteria from both its governing statute and SBREFA (i.e.,
   the nature, circumstances and gravity of the violation; the degree of
   the operator's culpability; the operator's enforcement history; the
   operator's ability to pay a civil penalty; the effect of a civil
   penalty on the operator's ability to continue in business; and any
   other mitigating or compounding matters) prior to proposing, reducing
   or waiving a penalty. The Compliance Officer recommends the penalty to
   be assessed based, in part, on the referral penalty amount, decreased
   by any penalty reduction for mitigating factors.

   The Office of Hazardous Materials Enforcement (OHM) forwards
   enforcement referrals to the Chief Counsel's Office, along with each
   civil penalty enforcement action, listing a recommended penalty for
   each violation. Recommended penalties are the baseline penalty amount
   shown in the hazardous materials civil penalty enforcement guidelines
   plus any penalty increase for aggravating circumstances. OHM assesses
   any pre-referral evidence of corrective action and recommends penalty
   reductions accordingly. OHM, in determining the propriety of reducing a
   civil penalty proposed against a small entity, considers “ability to
   pay,” and may further condition penalty reduction upon factors such as
   corrective action, a “good faith” effort to comply with the
   regulations, and the impact of the violation on safety, as well as
   other matters as justice may require. The Chief Counsel's Office
   determines the penalty to be assessed based, in part, on the referral
   penalty amount, decreased by any penalty reduction for mitigating
   factors. Penalties for violations of the Hazardous Materials
   Regulations may not be waived for small entities, as provided under
   SBREFA, because Federal hazardous materials law mandates a minimum $250
   penalty for each violation found. However, RSPA has established a
   ticketing program for violations that do not have a direct or
   substantial impact on safety; under the program, a penalty is reduced
   by 50 percent from the baseline amount in RSPA's penalty guidelines.
   OHM estimates that 88 percent of the hazardous materials industry is
   comprised of small businesses.

   St. Lawrence Seaway Corporation (SLSDC)

   The only civil penalty provision available to the SLSDC for pilotage
   law violations in the Great Lakes applies only to individual pilots,
   not small businesses.

   Federal Transit Administration (FTA)

   FTA does not levy civil penalties. When an FTA recipient is not in
   compliance with a term or condition of its grant agreement, FTA may
   withhold grant funds.

   Federal Railroad Administration (FRA)

   On August 11, 1997, FRA published its new enforcement policy. FRA
   considers a variety of factors in determining whether to take
   enforcement action against persons, including small entities, who have
   violated the safety laws and regulations. In addition to the
   seriousness of the violation and the entity's history of compliance,
   FRA inspectors consider “such other factors as the immediate
   circumstances make relevant.” In the context of violations by small
   entities, those factors include whether the violations were made in
   good faith (e.g., based on an honest misunderstanding of the law) and
   whether the small entity has moved quickly and thoroughly to remedy the
   violation(s). In general, the presence of both good faith and prompt
   remedial action mitigate against taking a civil penalty action,
   especially if the violations are isolated events. On the other hand,
   violations involving willful actions and/or posing serious health,
   safety, or environmental threats should ordinarily result in
   enforcement actions, regardless of the entity's size.

   Once FRA has assessed a civil penalty, it collects at least the
   statutory minimum amount ($250 for hazardous materials violations and
   $500 for all others). However, civil penalties may be reduced from the
   initial assessment based on the consideration of a variety of criteria
   found in the railroad safety statutes and SBREFA: the severity of the
   safety, health or environmental risk presented; the existence of
   alternate methods of eliminating the safety hazard; the entity's
   culpability; the entity's compliance history, the entity's ability to
   pay the assessment, the impacts an assessment might exact on the
   entity's continued business; and evidence that the entity acted in good
   faith.

   FRA staff attorneys regularly invite small entities to present any
   information related to these factors, and reduce civil penalty
   assessments based on the value and integrity of the information
   presented. Staff attorneys conduct conference calls or meet with small
   entities to discuss pending violations, and explain the merits of any
   defenses or mitigating factors presented that may have resulted or
   failed to result in penalty reductions. Among the “other factors” FRA
   considers is the promptness and thoroughness of the entity's remedial
   action to correct the violations and prevent a recurrence. Such
   long-term solutions to compliance problems are given great weight in
   FRA's determinations of a final settlement offer.

   Finally, under FRA's Safety Assurance and Compliance Program (SACP),
   FRA identifies systemic safety hazards that continue to occur in a
   carrier or shipper operation, and in cooperation with the subject
   business, develops an improvement plan to eliminate those safety
   concerns. Typically, the plan provides small entities with a reasonable
   time frame in which to make improvements without the threat of civil
   penalty. If FRA determines that the entity has failed to comply with
   the improvement plan, however, it initiates enforcement action.

   The Bureau of Transportation Statistics (BTS)

   BTS endeavors to be flexible whenever appropriate, taking into account
   individual circumstances before taking enforcement action.

   Motor Carrier Data Collection Program

   This program emphasizes the carrot over the stick, encouraging
   compliance by providing (1) a multi-level system of informal compliance
   reminders and grace periods before formal enforcement action; (2)
   assistance to carriers seeking compliance information; and (3)
   electronic report forms. Policies tailored toward helping small
   entities comply with reporting requirements include:

   • Reducing reporting burden on small entities by tailoring the
   reporting requirements to the size of their operations.

   • Establishing, for small motor carriers, procedures for requesting an
   extension of time to file a required report.

   • Providing small carriers with a reminder letter and a follow-up
   letter in an informal attempt to achieve compliance, before formal
   enforcement action is taken. Both letters give grace periods to allow
   carriers to file. Again, carriers can always request a filing deadline
   extension.

   • Tolling the filing requirement while a decision for an exemption from
   those requirements is pending.

   Airline Data Collection Program

   This program also emphasizes the carrot over the stick, with a goal of
   encouraging compliance by providing (1) a multi-level system of
   informal compliance reminders before formal enforcement action; (2)
   assistance to small carriers seeking compliance information; and (3) a
   central "on-site" location (the Alaska Field Office), that is familiar
   with Alaska's geographic operating conditions, as a central contact
   point for compliance assistance. Policies tailored toward helping small
   air carriers comply with reporting requirements include:

   • Reducing reporting burden on small air carriers by tailoring the
   reporting requirements to the size and type of their operations.

   • Establishing, for small air carriers, procedures for requesting an
   extension of time to file a required report or for a waiver from the
   reporting requirements.

   • Providing small air carriers with a reminder letter and a follow-up
   letter in an informal attempt to achieve compliance, before formal
   enforcement action is taken.

   • Conducting, in conjunction with the Office of the General Counsel, an
   enforcement program that allows full or partial waiver of civil
   penalties in certain cases involving small businesses. Within the
   aviation data collection program, the assessment of penalties for
   failure to file required reports is administered by the Assistant
   General Counsel for Aviation Enforcement and Proceedings. The current
   policy of levying fines and penalties on air carriers allows for the
   waiving of up to 100 percent of the assessed fines and penalties where
   the affected air carrier takes corrective action to improve its
   reporting. Full consideration is given to a carrier's corrective
   actions and financial condition.

   Maritime Administration (MARAD)

   In the past, for unintentional violations, MARAD has mitigated the
   forfeiture of vessels as allowed by Section 9 of the Merchant Marine
   Act of 1916 for violation of its provisions and granted retroactive
   approval of transfers without penalty, and will continue to do so in
   the future. In many of these actions, the violators would have been
   considered small under SBA guidelines. This is the one area in which
   MARAD has authority to administer civil penalties.

   National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA)

   On July 10, 1997, NHTSA published a Policy Statement on waiver and
   reduction of civil penalties for small entities, including exclusions.
   It takes enforcement action against motor vehicle safety and fuel
   economy standards violations and odometer fraud. In the past, NHTSA has
   followed a statutory directive in the Vehicle Safety Act to consider
   the appropriateness of the penalty to the size of the business charged.
   NHTSA's Office of the Chief Counsel determines the size of the
   manufacturer or other violator, on the basis of the estimated number of
   employees, and the violator's position within its particular industry.
   If gross sales in the previous year are known, this information is also
   considered. When the Chief Counsel asks a violator to show cause why a
   penalty should not be imposed, the violator is informed of the
   statutory provision and asked to address the size of its business in
   its response. A statutory defense of reasonable care also is available
   to violators. When the agency concludes that a manufacturer has a
   “reasonable care” defense, it does not impose a penalty. If the
   violator is unable to establish that it exercised “reasonable care” in
   its response to the show-cause letter, the Chief Counsel proposes a
   penalty figure that appears appropriate under the circumstances. In
   addition to size, the agency also considers “the gravity of the
   violation” in setting this figure. The Chief Counsel sets a compromise
   settlement figure that is realistic given the financial capabilities of
   individual violators. On occasion, it has accepted an offer of a
   smaller sum or permitted payment of the sum in installments to
   accommodate the financial needs of the company. NHTSA traditionally
   does not impose penalties for de minimus violations that do not affect
   safety or when manufacturers identify and report their failure to
   comply to NHTSA and move quickly to remedy them.

   To more fully implement SBREFA, NHTSA now includes in its civil penalty
   settlement letters a copy of its SBREFA policy statement and a
   statement that informs violators who may be small entities of the
   definition of “small entity.” If a violator shows that it is a small
   entity and does not fall within any of the exclusions, NHTSA will
   reduce the maximum civil penalty it is entitled to impose, and will
   make corresponding reductions in the proposed settlement amounts and
   compromised penalty amounts. NHTSA also plans to defer civil penalties
   against small entities to give them time to comply. This deferral will
   last until the next time NHTSA tests their vehicles for compliance. If
   the small entities comply, NHTSA will not impose the penalties.



                               C-50 Home Page

                                  red line


   Mission & Functions Regulatory Responsibilities List of Regulatory
   Responsibilities Regulatory Internet Sites Regulatory Agenda
     Reviews being Conducted under ß610 Activities to Implement SBREFA
   Small Entity Enforcement Policies
