http://marshalltv.msfc.nasa.gov/dvd.html

                     Marshall TV Home  [line-top2.gif]
                                      Top Navigation Bar
                                       [line_top.gif]

                          Visit our What's New page

                        Marshall Multimedia Services

                                   spacer
                               Other Services

                                Presentation
                                  Resources

                                 Live Shots

                                DVD Services

                                     FAQ

                                 Contact Us

   seperator

                         Broadcasting Industry News

                               Top Media News

                               Digital TV News

                                  seperator

   Special Note to Our Customers and Clients: Building 4207 Parking UPDATE



              DVD Production Capabilities and Services Offered

     Marshall TV Multimedia Now Offering DVD Format Support for NASA,
     Contractor Clients

     Marshall TV's broadcast design gallery DVD The popularity of the
     Digital Versatile Disk, or DVD, has been more phenomenal than even
     optimistic industry analysts had predicted. At the end of 2001, the
     video, music, and data playback systems were found in one of four
     U.S. homes. That's an initial acceptance rate higher than the
     Consumer Electronics Association has ever recorded. And globally,
     DVD sales were key contributors to soaring consumer electronics
     spending which topped $97-billion dollars last year.

     Monitoring industry trends such as these, Marshall DVD station
     Television Services began an extensive effort to offer DVD services
     to its NASA and contractor customers. Now, according to the manager
     George Baker, and multimedia lead Debbie Solomon, Marshall TV is
     open for DVD business.

     A variety of state of the art hardware and DVD software software has
     been combined with trained members of the MTV team to provide the
     type of DVD support that best suits the customer's individual needs.

     Solomon explained that DVD software whether the need is for
     broadcast quality video and audio alone, or whether authoring is
     required to make DVDs interactive, her multimedia team is set up to
     do the job.

     She says that while DVDs may not offer the ability to be as
     interactive as CD-ROMs, the storage capability and quality offered
     by DVDs is likely the reason for the surge in the format's initial
     acceptance and subsequent popularity. "There are clear advantages to
     CD-ROMs for certain applications, and other advantages to the DVD
     format. We're now offering both options to our clients, along with
     the expertise to help our customers choose which is right for their
     specific needs."

     "One of the major advantages of the Image of Chandra DVD DVD," said
     MTV multimedia team member Greg Trent, "is that we are offering
     customers greater playback options. DVDs can be played on most
     computer desktops, or DVD players."

     To find out more MTV's new DVD capabilities, contact Debbie Solomon
     by phone at (256) 544-8640, or via e-mail at
     debbie.solomon@msfc.nasa.gov.


       footer image left             footer image right
              Home ~ About ~ Awards ~ Services ~ Other Services
       Presentation Resources ~ Live Shots ~ DVD Services ~ Contact Us
             FAQ ~ Broadcast News ~ Media News ~ Digital TV News
                Internet Delivery Services ~ Imaging Services
