http://cs-www.ncsl.nist.gov/pki/

   CSRC [transparent.gif]   nistlogo
   [transparent.gif] Home Library Services Events Advisories Contact Site
   Map


   SEARCH

   Text to search for: _________
   Click here to Search
   advanced search

   Application Programming Interface (API)
   Common Signed Information Format

   Computer Security Objects Register (CSOR)
   Federal Bridge Certification Authority (FBCA)
   Documents

   Interoperability Testbed
   MISPC
   Modeling PKI Architectures
   Security Requirements
   Secure Mail
   Testing PKI Components
   TWG
   NIST Cryptographic Standards



      NIST PKI Program

     The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) is taking a
     leadership role in the development of a Federal Public Key
     Infrastructure that supports digital signatures and other public
     key-enabled security services. NIST is coordinating with industry and
     technical groups developing PKI technology to foster interoperability
     of PKI products and projects. In support of digital signatures, NIST
     has worked with the Federal PKI Steering Committee to produce digital
     signature guidance.

     The National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) has also
     produced a digital signature guidance document entitled "Records
     Management Guidance for Agencies Implementing Electronic Signature
     Technologies", and the Department of Treasury has produced a guidance
     document entitled "Electronic Authentication Policy."

     The DOJ Final Guidance on legal considerations related to e-filing and
     record keeping on the ecommerce web page is now available. In addition,
     Attorney General Reno's Cover Memorandum to the Justice Department
     Guide on Legal Considerations in Designing and Implementing Electronic
     Processes (November 22, 2000) and Justice Department Guide on Legal
     Considerations in Designing and Implementing Electronic Processes
     (November 2000) (pdf version) are also available.

     The PKI overview is a good starting point, particularly  if you are not
     familiar with NIST's PKI Program. In addition to the overview, this
     website includes pages devoted to each of the key components of the
     progam, papers, and pointers to related NIST web sites.

     NIST is currently concentrating on PKI architectures, security
     requirements for PKI components, and PKI-enabled applications. The PKI
     architecture work is divided between development of complex PKIs based
     on the bridge CA concept and theoretical modeling of PKI performance.
     The goal of NIST's security requirements work is a Common Criteria
     Protection Profile.

     NIST's PKI and S/MIME programs have been merged, reflecting NIST's
     increased attention to PKI-aware applications. Secure mail is a
     priority application for nearly every organization, whether in the
     private sector or government. Information on NIST's S/MIME program can
     be found on the NIST S/MIME Project's home page. NIST is also pursuing
     XML digital signatures using PKI to verify the identity of the signer,
     based on the IETF/W3C draft specifications.

   Please read our NIST disclaimer and privacy policy.
   The Computer Security Resource Center is in the Computer Security
   Division of the Information Technology Laboratory at the National
   Institute of Standards and Technology .
   NIST is an agency of the U.S. Commerce Department's Technology
   Administration.
   Please send comments or suggestions to william.polk@nist.gov
   Last Modified: December 12, 2001.
