http://polymers.msel.nist.gov/researcharea/multiphase/index.html

   Polymer division banner


Multiphase Materials Group


   The Multiphase Materials Group develops realistic measurement and
   characterization platforms for multiphase polymeric materials that use
   a combination of experimental measurements and theoretical and computer
   (T/M) modeling tools to provide realistic and highly optimized output.
   All these measurement and characterization tools and platforms are
   intended to help industries in pre-production evaluation, materials
   characterization, performance prediction, as well as provide data for
   process design.
   In order to achieve the performance requirements in modulus, stiffness,
   toughness, temperature, chemical and environmental stability, and even
   provide the desired appearance, and touch, most polymeric materials in
   use are either phase separated blends with two or more components,
   and/or filled with particles or short/long fibers. The challenge in
   using multiphase polymeric materials extends from the processing
   design, through structure and properties prediction and
   characterization to service life prediction. The aim is to use
   theoretical and computational modeling tools in conjunction with
   characterization measurements to form realistic and workable tool sets
   and make them available to US industrial companies by working directly
   with them through CRADAs and consortia.

   Schematic of bound polymer chains           Schematic of bound polymer
   chains

   Specifically, characterization techniques will be developed and used to
   generate relevant data bases or constitutive relations to be used as
   input for theoretical and computer modeling tools to provide more
   realistic T/M and bridge the gap in current T/M tools. Current
   theoretical and computational tools are capable of modeling fine length
   scales such as nano-scale molecular dynamics simulations, micro-scale
   self consistent field or density functional methods, and meso-scale
   time dependent Ginsburg-Landau or Cahn-Hilliard-Cook techniques. On the
   other hand, macroscopic part sized finite-element-flow calculations and
   Object Oriented Finite element analysis (OOF) for properties
   calculations and virtual testing are much coarser grained tools. A
   seamless connection between modeling tools for each length scale is
   lacking, especially between the microscopic and the macroscopic sets of
   computer tools is not available to provide realistic materials
   properties for design, prediction, and characterization. Our approach
   of using experimental results as input to T/M tools will solve the
   problem of providing realistic materials properties and bridge the gap
   of platforms until a seamless zooming can be achieved in T/M.
   The group is currently working on three materials characterization
   projects to provide:
   1. Phase separation/crystallization results together with interfacial
   characterization and rheological data to form generalized constitutive
   relations as input for finite-element-flow modeling in molding process,
   and also for phase structure characterization.
   2. Structure, dynamics, and modulus characterization in carbon black,
   nano-clay, and high surface area particle filled polymers and polymer
   blends for performance characterization and validation of nano- and
   meso- scaled computer modeling development.
   3. Fiber tow characterization and failure results as input to
   finite-element based mechanics and performance evaluation. All three
   projects are potentially linked to future poly-OOF for property
   prediction and virtual testing.




   NIST Materials Science & Engineering Laboratory - Polymers Division

   Research Area
   bullet Characterization & Measurement

   bullet Electronic Materials
   bullet Biomaterials
   bullet Multiphase Materials
          bullet  Projects
          bullet  Staff
          bullet  Highlights
   bullet Processing Characterization
   bullet Multivariant Meaurement Methods
