http://www.wsdot.wa.gov/accountability/

   Washington State Department of Transportation
                WSDOT News Site Index Contact WSDOT WSDOT Home
   Traffic & Roads Projects Business Environmental Maps & Data

   WSDOT Accountability

   Most Requested


   »

       Highway Cameras
   »

       Puget Sound Traffic Flow Map
   »

       Washington State Ferries
   »

       Amtrak Cascades
   »

       Frequently Asked Questions
   »

       Driver & Vehicle Licensing
   About WSDOT
   •  Transportation Commission
   •  Agency Organization
   •  Employment
   •  Our Environmental Commitment

WSDOT Efficiencies

   Highway Maintenance Cost Comparisons with National Average
   The comparison of physical maintenance expenditures shows that
   Washington's costs are $7,487 per system mile, while the nationwide
   average of 50 states' costs is $9,597 per system mile. WSDOT is 22%
   below the average expenditure per system mile nationwide. This trend
   indicating Washington to be lower than average cost holds for almost
   all functional classes. Read more...

Measures, Markers and Mileposts

   Gray Notebook Cover Also referred to as “The Gray Notebook” (pdf 838k)
   because of its gray cover, is Secretary Doug MacDonald’s quarterly
   performance measures report for the department. It is completed
   in-house by people within the respective programs. The goal of the Gray
   Notebook is to keep WSDOT accountable to the Transportation Commission
   and the public.

   The Gray Notebook (Measures, Markers and Mileposts) is published
   quarterly. The most recent version is the September 30th edition.
     * September 30, 2001 (pdf 838k)
     * June 30, 2001 (pdf 344k)
     * March 31, 2001 (pdf 539k)

   If you have questions or suggestions regarding the Gray Notebook,
   please contact Daniela Bremmer, Manager, at bremmed@wsdot.wa.gov or
   Secretary MacDonald at MacDonD@wsdot.wa.gov.

An Overwhelmed Transportation System, And, What to Do About It

   Providing adequate funding for Washington’s Transportation system has
   been a lively topic in the news across the state. There are almost as
   many opinions about the subject as there are people who live here.

   The Washington State Department of Transportation has been sorting
   through a variety of research and data to help explain how we got into
   this transportation mess, and to provide some ideas on what to do about
   it.

   The document, “An Overwhelmed Transportation System and What to Do
   About It (pdf, 1mb),” is the result of this effort. It provides a 20
   year look at Washington’s growth, gas tax, and comparisons with other
   states. It shows how growth has affected the transportation system and
   discusses the economic, safety and quality-of-life impacts as a result.
   And, it also talks about how to make things better - by maximizing use
   of all transportation options, clearing incidents quicker, and funding
   projects that improve congestion, freight movement, safety and the
   environment. Take a look and let us know what you think.

WSDOT Mission Statement

   The Washington State Department of Transportation keeps people and
   business moving by operating and improving the state transportation
   systems vital to our taxpayers and communities.



     Copyright WSDOT © 2002

       Traffic & Roads | Site Index | Contact WSDOT | WSDOT Business |
   WSDOT Home
