http://tmf-web.jpl.nasa.gov/projects.html

             [JPLnav_Black_Begin.gif] [JPLnav_JPL_Home_Off.gif]
            [JPLnav_Earth_Off.gif] [JPLnav_Solar_System_Off.gif]
         [JPLnav_Stars_Galaxies_Off.gif] [JPLnav_Technology_Off.gif]
                           [JPLnav_Black_End.gif]
                             [USEMAP:navtop.jpg]
     [navleftup.gif] [navhome.gif] [navprojects-over.gif] [navdoing.gif]
                     [navschedule.gif] [navrightup.gif]
    [navleftdown.gif] [navaccomodations.gif] [navmaps.gif] [navpast.gif]
                     [navstaff.gif] [navrightdown.gif]


                              [ProjectHead.gif]

                 The list below shows current projects being
                  conducted at the Table Mountain Facility.

   Click on a project link for more information, or to contact the project
                                  manager.

                     ACRIMSAT | Astronomy | AVM | FTUVS

                     LIDAR |  NRL | OCTL | STRV-2 | USGS

                         Pomona College Observatory


                                     AVM

      The Atmospheric Visibility Monitor (AVM) is an autonomous robotic
     telescope whose mission is to learn about the transmission of light
      through the atmosphere, as part of the JPL Optical Communication
                              Group's mission.

   Day and night, it seeks out available stars and takes pictures of them
   at various wavelengths. It processes the images and sends the results,
         by network, back to the JPL main site for further analysis.

                                  [AVM.jpg]

                            For more information,
                      please contact Nicholas Konidaris


                                RETURN TO TOP

                                    FTUVS
             Atmospheric Spectroscopy at Table Mountain Facility

     The depletion of stratospheric ozone and the changes in the global
     climate system are examples of environmental problems that have the
   potential to affect the Earth's habitability for generations. In order
           to understand how these changes will affect the coupled
   atmosphere-ocean-land systems, NASA has built a series of research and
       monitoring systems that use satellites, aircraft, balloons and
                          ground-based instruments.

   At Table Mountain Facility (TMF) our group has built two spectrometers
           for the remote measurement of atmospheric composition:

       1. Fourier Transform Ultraviolet Spectrometer (FTUVS) is a high
       resolution interferometric spectrometer for the measurement of
   atmospheric molecules with resolved spectral features in the 290-800 nm
      spectral region. This instrument uses the Sun or Moon as a light
     source, and measures the absorption spectra of molecules such as OH
      (hydroxyl), NO2 (nitrogen dioxide), NO3 (nitrate radical) and BrO
          (bromine monoxide) to obtain vertical column abundances.

     2. Grating Spectrograph is a medium resolution grating spectrometer
   which employs a 1024 element diode array detector. This instrument can
   be used in the solar/lunar absorption modes, and also in a sky-viewing
      mode to detect light that has been scattered by high-altitude air
     molecules. This instrument is used for measurements of NO3 (nitrate
      radical), NO2 (nitrogen dioxide), O3 (ozone) and other molecules.

     These instruments provide data to the Network for the Detection of
      Stratospheric Change (NDSC), an international program to measure
      long-term changes in the composition of the global atmosphere. In
    addition, support is provided for the validation of future satellite
   missions including SAGE III on the Meteosat platform to be launched in
       2001, and the OMI instrument on the Earth Observing System Aura
                      platform to be launched in 2003.

   The scientists who use the atmospheric spectrometers at Table Mountain
    are members of the Chemical Kinetics and Photochemistry Group at the
   Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology. The team
     members include Dr. Richard Cageao, Dr. Claudine Chen, Dr. Franklin
    Mills and Dr. Stan Sander (team leader). Collaborators include Prof.
   Yuk Yung and Dr. Mark Allen at the California Institute of Technology.

        Click here to view PDF file with photos of the FTUVS project

                                RETURN TO TOP

                                    LIDAR

    At the LIDAR (light detection and ranging) laboratory several systems
   have been designed and are currently used to measure atmospheric ozone,
                      temperature and aerosol profiles.

   The systems are designed to make high-precision, long-term measurements
   to aid in the detection of atmospheric changes through participation in
   the international Network of Detection of Stratospheric Change (NDSC).
    The research is funded by the NASA Upper Atmosphere Research Program.

   A Nd:YAG-based system is used for measurements from ground up to 15 to
    20 km altitute, a combination Nd:YAG and excimer based system is used
    for measurements from 15 km to 55 km for ozone and 15 km to 90 km for
    temperature. Another Nd:YAG system for measuring water vapor is under
                                development.


                                 [lidar.jpg]

         Please contact Dr. Stuart McDermid for further information.


    LIDAR team members are Dr. Stuart McDermid (Principal Investigator),
   Dr. Richard Cageao, Dr. David Haner, Dr. Thierry Leblanc and Dan Walsh.



                                RETURN TO TOP

                                    OCTL

         The Optical Communications Telescope Laboratory (OCTL) is a
   state-of-the-art optical communications ground terminal currently being
   built by the JPL Telecommunications and Mission Operations Directorate
                               Program office.

    For additional information, please click to view the PDF document or
                        visit the OCTL-Cam web site.
                                 [Octl.jpg]


                                RETURN TO TOP


                                     NRL

   The NRL project has been monitoring the middle atmospheric water vapor
    profile, using the Naval Research Laboratory ground-based Water Vapor
        Millimeter-wave Spectrometer (WVMS) instruments. These 22 GHz
    spectrometers are making measurements as part of the Network for the
                  Detection of Stratospheric Change (NDSC).

    Instruments have been deployed at Table Mountain since 1992, and the
       Table Mountain site has been used to intercompare all new WVMS
   instruments which have been deployed since 1992. Other WVMS instruments
      currently operate at Mauna Loa, Hawaii, and Lauder, New Zealand.

       Measurements from the Table Mountain instrument have played an
    important role in several scientific studies, including the discovery
    of a large increase in middle atmospheric water vapor from 1991-1997
                [Nedoluha et al., JGR 103, 3531-3543, 1998].


                                  [NRL.jpg]


                                RETURN TO TOP

                                   STRV-2

           The Table Mountain Facility is the host facility for a
    ground-to-satellite laser communication experiment being conducted by
   AstroTerra Corporation of San Diego as one of the experiments funded by
    the Ballistic Missile Defense Organization (BMDO) being flown aboard
    the Space Technology Research Vehicle 2 (STRV-2) module housed on the
           Air Force Tri-Service Experiments 5 (TSX-5) spacecraft.


                                 [strv2.jpg]

     A transportable ground terminal has been installed onto a prepared
   concrete pad at the TMF TM-2 location. The ground terminal is comprised
      of three 12-inch diameter transmitter telescopes and one 16-inch
        receiver telescope. Each transmitter telescope contains eight
     "communication" lasers, transmitting at a wavelength of 810 nm, and
         four "beacon" lasers that transmit at an 852 nm wavelength.

    Two-way laser communication with the STRV-2 satellite is accomplished
    in conjunction with a transceiver mounted aboard the satellite. When
      the satellite approaches Table Mountain, beacon lasers within the
     transceiver search for the ground station, while the ground-station
    beacons search for the satellite. Once the signals are identified by
     each receiver, then "lock-on" is established, and the communication
   lasers from both the ground station and the satellite are activated to
     begin communication. The total time of each overhead pass is on the
                            order of ten minutes.

      Passive tracking experiments are also being performed with other
   candidate satellites as aids to refining the ground-station operational
                                  software.

                                RETURN TO TOP


                         Pomona College Observatory

       The Pomona College 40 inch telescope was designed by Dr. Robert
     Chambers who was actively involved in planning for a 1-meter class
                      telescope since the early 1960's.

   The telescope was built at Pomona College and installed on the mountain
    during the period from 1982-1985. Since then upgrades in the control
   electronics and motors have been made, and new software for controlling
              the telescope has been written by Gary Grasdalen.

    The telescope was an ambitious project, and was made possible by the
    vision of Dr. Chambers, and the hard work of many physics department
                         staff members and students.

       A grant from the NSF ILI program was approved for the Claremont
   Colleges in 1994, and some additional funds for the optics upgrade were
    provided by JPL. The grant was authored by Dr. Shane Burns of Harvey
   Mudd College, Dr. Bryan Penprase, Dr. Alma Zook and Dr. Steve Naftilan.

    The grant enabled the Claremont Colleges to upgrade the optics of the
      Pomona College 40 inch telescope by purchasing a new primary and
    secondary mirror. The optics were ordered by Dr. Bryan Penprase from
    Rayleigh Optical Company of Tucson, Arizona, headed by Dave Anderson.

   The primary mirror was constructed from a 1-meter blank of Corning ULE
     (Ultralow Expansion) Glass, and the secondary was constructed from
     Schott Zerodur glass. The final installation of the new optics took
             place at Table Mountain during the summer of 1996.


                                [Pomona2.jpg]

     Above: The Pomona College 40 inch telescope, viewed from the Table
   Mountain with some of the personell involved in the mirror installation
                                  visible.

    Below: Another view of the telescope showing the mirrors and support
                                  structure
                                [Pomona1.jpg]

    With the improved optics, the image quality of the 40 inch telescope
   was found to be superb, and this has made many new astronomical imaging
                         research projects possible.

   In the last few years (1998-2000) the telescope was used for precision
       monitoring of Jupiter's atmosphere, photometric observations of
   galactic star clusters and extinction from molecular clouds, as well as
   for research into the variability of quasars. In addition it is used by
      the Claremont College astronomy courses Physics 172 (senior lab),
    Astronomy 101, Astronomy 1 and Astronomy 3 classes for both advanced
               photometric observing and for viewing galaxies.

     The telescope is outfitted with a Photometrics liquid N2 cooled CCD
      camera purchased jointly by Harvey Mudd College, JPL, and Pomona
   College. A polarimeter and filter wheel is nearing completion at Pomona
    College, funded by a grant from JPL. In addition a near-IR camera is
     being tested at Harvey Mudd Camera, acquired by an NSF grant to Dr.
     Alex Rudolph (HMC), Dr. Mary Barsony, Dr. Bryan Penprase, Dr. Steve
                         Naftilan and Dr. Alma Zook.

       We welcome collaborations with JPL astronomers as we expand the
   capabilities of this facility; interested parties can contact Dr. Bryan
      Penprase at Pomona College to schedule telescope time. He can be
       reached either by email or at the phone number (909) 621-8727.

   Some of the resulting images taken with this telescope may be found at
                   the Pomona College astronomy web site.

                                RETURN TO TOP

             HOME | PROJECTS | DOING BUSINESS AT TMF | SCHEDULE
              ACCOMODATIONS | MAPS | A LOOK AT THE PAST | STAFF
