http://ifmp.nasa.gov/codeb/library/99ar.pdf

   * 99 AR layout 04/05/2000 1:51 PM Page 1 Statement of the Administrator
   Daniel S. Goldin Administrator The future exploration of the space
   determined thinning and thickening For NASA, 1999 encompassed a cele-
   frontier can make the third millennium rates for the Greenland Ice
   Sheet bration of the Agency's past, the excit- a magnificent time of
   achievement for and provided the first radar-detailed ing
   accomplishment of our current humankind. We are delivering our pro-
   mosaic of Antarctica. endeavors, and our visions of the grams while
   continuing to make safety * The Human Exploration and future. As the
   20th century closes, his- our number-one priority. Our results
   Development of Space Enterprise tory will record that in the 1960's
   come from the hard work of the NASA successfully completed the first
   humankind opened the vast frontier team-employees, contractors, academ-
   International Space Station assembly beyond Earth's atmosphere.The
   Apollo ic researchers, industry, government, and logistics mission,
   mating the program blazed a trail of the pioneer- and international
   partners-and the Zarya control module and Unity ing spirit of
   exploration, and this year continued support of the President, Node and
   delivering supplies and we celebrated the 30th anniversary of Congress,
   and the public. equipment, which will be needed to our first steps on
   the Moon. operate and live on the Station. Our programmatic
   accomplishments Chandra, the third Great Observatory In coming months,
   we will be sending include new understandings in four and the heaviest
   payload ever the first crew to establish permanent strategic areas:
   launched, was safely deployed by the habitation of the International
   Space STS-93 crew, led by the Shuttle pro- Station-a long-duration
   space labora- * The Space Science Enterprise stud- gram's first female
   Commander, tory and the largest structure ever built ies the origin and
   operations of the Eileen Collins. John Glenn made his in space. The
   Station, by its perma- universe.The Hubble Telescope has historic
   return to space, studying the nence, allows many uses of space in
   illuminated the universe's rate of effects of aging and weightlessness.
   conducting experiments that need expansion, which is essential in * The
   Aero-Space Technology Enter- more time than the 14 days a Shuttle
   determining the age and size of the prise,with industry partners,has
   mission could provide.It is necessary as universe.The first optical
   images of developed new technology to allow a "spaceport" for more
   advanced space a gamma ray burst were captured. planes to land safely
   in bad weather missions by humans in deep space and The Mars Global
   Surveyor provided on parallel runways spaced as closely as a launch
   platform to embark on inter- the first global 3-D map of Mars. as 2,500
   feet apart.NASA and its gen- planetary flights. The Chandra X-ray
   Observatory, eral aviation partners also demonstrat- designed to
   observe x-rays from ed a low-emission combustor that Our vision of the
   21st century is one of high-energy regions of the universe, resulted in
   reductions in oxides of a future world with nations and indus- began
   sending exciting images back nitrogen and carbon monoxide emis- try
   sharing responsibilities, opportuni- to Earth. sion levels.A test
   version of the X-34 ties, and challenges through peaceful * The Earth
   Science Enterprise con- rocket plane made its first flight as
   interaction in civil space endeavors. tinues to provide invaluable
   satellite part of a certification process-the Our exploration of the
   unknown will and aircraft observations that are prototype will test new
   technologies lead to discoveries of new worlds and unraveling the
   mysteries of Earth and methods needed to develop low- generate new
   knowledge that stirs the system processes.We provided dra- cost
   reusable space vehicles. soul, nourishes the mind, and enriches matic
   images and data on the wax- our lives. ing and waning of El Niño and La
   As an institution, NASA has reorganized Niña, enabling seasonal climate
   pre- its Centers around areas of excellence, diction.The Enterprise
   produced performance-based contracting, and the first satellite-derived
   assess- privatization and met the severe chal- ments of global forest
   cover with lenges of reducing budgets on an annu- Daniel S. Goldin the
   launch of Landsat 7. Researchers al basis. Administrator Statements | 1
   * 99 AR layout 04/05/2000 1:52 PM Page 2 Statement of the Chief
   Financial Officer Arnold G. Holz Chief Financial Officer This
   Accountability Report consoli- etary resources. Agency budgets have in
   Accountability Reporting" by the dates reports required by various
   fallen from a high of 4 percent of the Association of Government
   Accountants statutes and summarizes NASA's pro- Federal budget during
   the 1960's to less (AGA) in recognition of its exemplary gram
   accomplishments and its stew- than 1 percent of the current Federal
   performance in the preparation, ardship over budget and financial
   budget. This budgetary challenge has issuance, and timeliness of its
   1998 resources. It is a culmination of NASA's been met by reorienting
   programs,elim- Accountability Report. The AGA award management process,
   which begins inating low-priority efforts, reducing reflects well on
   the entire NASA team. with mission definition and program support
   contracts and civil service planning, continues with the formula-
   staffing, and reforming procurement. As the Agency continues to advance
   tion and justification of budgets for the the technologies of space, we
   will con- President and Congress, and ends with Internal controls have
   been improved tinue to lead innovations and improve- the resulting
   scientific and engineering and budget and financial management ments in
   the reporting of the account- program accomplishments. The report
   streamlined. In that regard, Agency ability of the Federal
   Government.The covers activities from October 1, 1998, financial
   management systems substan- preparation of this report required the
   through September 30, 1999, with a tially comply with the Federal
   Financial teamwork and dedicated efforts of discussion of some
   subsequent events. Management Improvement Act. NASA's staff and its
   auditors.We appre- ciate their dedication and professional- Program
   accomplishments included the Financial statements were prepared in
   ism.As we combine cutting-edge tech- deployment and operation of the
   accordance with Federal generally nologies and business management,
   Chandra X-ray Observatory, the delivery accepted accounting principles,
   and the space program will be a vital of supplies and equipment needed
   to reporting instructions specified by the engine of the economy as we
   move live and operate on the International Office of Management and
   Budget. into the new millennium. Space Station, and the development of
   the first global 3-D map of Mars. NASA has received the highest
   possible Achievements are highlighted in the financial statement audit
   ratings Statement of the Administrator and sum- (unqualified opinions)
   on its financial marized in the performance section of statements for
   six consecutive years. In this report. Accomplishments such as
   addition, the Agency was honored with Arnold G. Holz these continue
   despite declining budg- the first-ever "Certificate of Excellence Chief
   Financial Officer 2 | NASA 1999 Accountability Report * 99 AR layout
   04/05/2000 1:52 PM Page 3 Contents NASA at a Glance . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . .5 Space Science . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   .13 Earth Science . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .21 Human
   Exploration and Development of Space . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .29 Aero-Space Technology . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . .39 Crosscutting Management Activities . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .49 Compliance
   With Legal and Regulatory Financial Requirements . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . .61 AGA Certificate of Excellence in Accountability
   Reporting for 1998 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .72 Financial
   Statements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .73 Auditor's Reports . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .97 Acronyms . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . .105 1999 Accountability Report This Accountability Report
   covers resources, including the Agency's audit- NASA's Accountability
   Report and Federal Fiscal Year 1999 (October 1, ed financial statements
   and footnotes. other information about the NASA pro- 1998,through
   September 30,1999) with We received an unqualified opinion grams are
   available through the discussion of some subsequent events. from our
   independent public auditors. Internet on NASA's Home Page at The
   auditor's opinion on NASA's finan- http://www.nasa.gov.The NASA Home
   This report highlights NASA's program cial statements, the report on
   internal Page is updated on an ongoing basis accomplishments and
   performance control, and the report on NASA's com- with current
   information relating to measures and summarizes its steward- pliance
   with laws and regulations are the NASA programs and our adminis- ship
   over budget and financial also included. tration of those programs.
   Contents | 3 * 99 AR layout 04/05/2000 1:52 PM Page 4 "Eyes on the
   Environment," computer-generated artwork with mixed media by Bryn
   Barnard. The artist depicts different views of Earth by incorporating
   studies from NASA's Earth Science program. * 99 AR layout 04/05/2000
   1:52 PM Page 5 NASA AT A GLANCE nasa vision NASA is an investment in
   America's future. As explorers, pioneers, and innovators, we boldly
   expand frontiers in air and space to inspire and serve America and to
   benefit the quality of life on Earth * 99 AR layout 04/05/2000 1:52 PM
   Page 6 NASA is a Federal research and engineering agency that
   accomplishes most of its space, aeronautics, science, and technology
   pro- grams through Field Centers and contractors across the United
   States. The NASA organiza- tion consists of approximately 18,600
   employ- Program ees located at Headquarters and nine Centers The
   aeronautics and space program consists of a variety of national pro-
   (see "NASA Organization" and "NASA Centers grams, projects, and
   activities. NASA has detailed and comprehensive pro- gram, project, and
   subproject require- of Excellence"). It also operates, through a con-
   ments that are consistent throughout the Agency and its systems,
   including budget and accounting. The manage- tract with the California
   Institute of Technology, ment of programs is organized around four
   Strategic Enterprises: the Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL), a Federally
   * Space Science * Earth Science * Human Exploration and Funded Research
   and Development Center. Development of Space * Aero-Space Technology
   NASA's program and support activities are Agency programs are managed
   by these Enterprises, through which we imple- ment our mission and
   communicate guided by a comprehensive strategic planning with our
   external customers. For exam- ple, Space Science manages the Hubble
   Space Telescope and current missions process. The Agency's
   accomplishments have to other planets. Earth Science is responsible for
   our growing knowledge of Earth as a planetary system. Human been
   significant, especially in light of budgetary Exploration and
   Development of Space is responsible for the Space Shuttle and the
   International Space Station. Aero- levels that have continued to
   decline over the Space Technology is responsible for advances in the
   capabilities and safety of civil aviation, as well as improved past 10
   years. access to space.Additional information on programs is contained
   in the plan- ning and budget and performance sec- tions of this report.
   6 | NASA 1999 Accountability Report * 99 AR layout 04/05/2000 1:52 PM
   Page 7 An electronic copy of this report and fur- Aerospace Safety ther
   detailed information can be found at Advisory Panel A Administrator
   Inspector General NASA Advisory NASA's web site at http://www.nasa.gov,
   Panel including the Agency's Strategic and Chief B G Equal E I L Human
   F Performance Plans, which contain a Financial General Opportunity
   External Legislative Resources and Officer Counsel Programs Relations
   Affairs Education graphic linking NASA's vision, mission, and roadmaps
   for the missions,goals,and H P Z J Q C Policy and Management Safety
   Headquarters Procurement Public Affairs Plans Systems and Mission
   Operations objectives of the Enterprises. Assurance K U Organization
   Small and Life and Disadvantaged Microgravity Business Sciences and
   Utilization Applications The NASA team is a diverse group at
   Headquarters and the Centers. NASA Y M R S Earth Space Aero-Space Space
   also relies on large and small contrac- Science Flight Technology
   Science tors, members of the academic com- munity, other Federal
   agencies, state and local agencies, and other space Goddard Space
   Lyndon B. Johnson Ames Research * Jet Propulsion Flight Center Space
   Center Center Laboratory agencies throughout the world. * JPL is a
   Federally Funded Research and Development Center John F. Kennedy Dryden
   Flight Headquarters Space Center Research Center The Headquarters
   organization consists George C. Marshall Langley Research Space Flight
   Center Center of the Office of the Administrator, four Strategic
   Enterprises, Functional and John C. Stennis John H. Glenn Space Center
   Research Center Staff Offices, and the Office of the at Lewis Field
   Inspector General (OIG).The Office of the Administrator directs the
   Agency in carrying out the policies approved by NASA Organization the
   President and Congress, as well as overseeing administrative and
   program leadership strategies in their areas of They also advise the
   Administrator and management. The Strategic Enterprises
   responsibility.As a group, they serve in senior managers of potential
   efficien- have primary responsibility for strategic an advisory
   capacity to the Administrator cies to be gained through standardiza-
   goals, objectives, and programs and for and work in partnership with
   Enterprise tion and consolidation and coordinate serving NASA
   customers. The Strategic Associate Administrators and Center the
   implementation of approved ini- Enterprises also oversee the Centers.
   Directors to ensure that activities are tiatives. being conducted in
   accordance with all Agency Functional and Staff Offices statutory and
   regulatory requirements, The OIG serves as an independent establish and
   disseminate policy and including fiduciary responsibilities. audit,
   inspection, and investigative NASA at a Glance | 7 * 99 AR layout
   04/05/2000 1:52 PM Page 8 Centers 10 11 Scientific and engineering work
   is largely carried out at the Centers and the Jet Propulsion
   Laboratory. These installations are Centers of Excellence in various
   scientific and engineering specialties as well as their assigned mis-
   sions.Additional work is carried out by offsite contractors, the
   academic com- munity, and international partners. Planning 1 2 3 4 5 6
   7 8 9 NASA has steadily improved its plan- ning and management
   processes 1 Ames Research Center Information Technology consistent with
   the Government 2 Jet Propulsion Laboratory* Deep Space Systems 3 Dryden
   Flight Research Center Atmospheric Flight Operations Performance and
   Results Act. NASA 4 Johnson Space Center Human Operations in Space
   aligns its organizational and program 5 Stennis Space Center Rocket
   Propulsion Test and Commercial structure with the requirements of
   Remote Sensing the Agency's customers and stake- 6 Marshall Space
   Flight Center Space Propulsion Transportation Systems Development, and
   Optics Manufacturing holders, and integrates its strategic Technology
   planning, budgeting, and perform- 7 Glenn Research Center
   Aeropropulsion and Aerospace Power ance management, accounting, and
   Systems Research and Technology reporting activities. 8 Kennedy Space
   Center Launch and Payload Processing Systems 9 Langley Research Center
   Structures and Materials 10 NASA Headquarters Agency Management NASA
   has developed statements of its 11 Goddard Space Flight Center
   Scientific Research vision, mission, and the fundamental * A Federally
   Funded Research and Development Center scientific and engineering
   questions addressed by its programs.These state- ments provide a
   foundation for its NASA Centers of Excellence goals and objectives. The
   Agency's vision, mission, goals, and objectives organization by
   performing audits, ciency, and effectiveness in its programs are a
   product of close collaboration reviews, inspections, and
   investigations. and operations. OIG auditors, evalua- with customers,
   partner agencies The OIG prevents and detects crime, tors, and agents
   are located at (which are carrying out related pro- fraud, waste, and
   abuse and assists man- Headquarters, the Centers, and the Jet grams),
   and stakeholders in the agement in promoting economy, effi- Propulsion
   Laboratory. Administration and Congress. These 8 | NASA 1999
   Accountability Report * 99 AR layout 04/05/2000 1:52 PM Page 9 goals
   and objectives are supported by the budget described on subsequent
   14,600 pages of this section. 14,400 Progress toward the achievement of
   14,200 goals and objectives is described in the 14,000 performance and
   crosscutting sections of this document. These sections pro- 13,800 vide
   the detailed performance goals 13,600 and accomplishments for each
   Strategic Enterprise and the four 13,400 Crosscutting Processes.
   Products and Millions of Dollars 13,200 services are delivered to
   customers through work processes that cut 13,000 FY91 FY92 FY93 FY94
   FY95 FY96 FY97 FY98 FY99 across the agency's Enterprises and NASA
   Budget 14,015 14,316 14,309 14,568 13,853 13,885 13,709 13,648 13,653
   Functional and Staff Offices. The Crosscutting Processes are Manage
   Strategically, Providing Aerospace Budget Trends Products and
   Capabilities, Generate Knowledge, and Communicate communications
   services, safety and Knowledge. Details are available in the * Human
   Space Flight-This quality assurance activities, facilities Strategic
   Plan at http://www.nasa.gov. appropriation provides for the maintenance
   and construction activ- International Space Station and ities to
   preserve the core infrastruc- The OIG has its own Strategic Space
   Shuttle programs, including ture, environmental remediation,
   Implementation Plan. Each program flight support for cooperative pro-
   and civil service workforce. area-Audits, Investigations, and grams
   with Russia and other * Inspector General-This appropria-
   Inspections-is preparing a more nations. tion provides funding for the
   detailed implementation plan, includ- * Science,Aeronautics, and
   staffing and support required to ing appropriate metrics and will
   report Technology-This appropriation perform audits, evaluations, and
   separately on its accomplishments. provides funding for various
   investigations of programs and research and development activi-
   operations. Budget ties: Earth and Space Science, Aeronautics, Life and
   Microgravity Budget Trends The Agency budget for the past
   Sciences,Technology Investments, 3 years has averaged approximately
   Education Programs, and Mission NASA's share of Federal spending has
   $13.6 billion per year. Funding is cur- Communication Services.
   declined from a high of 4 percent of rently received through the
   following * Mission Support-This appropria- the Federal budget in 1966,
   at the appropriations: tion provides funding for space height of the
   Apollo program, to less NASA at a Glance | 9 * 99 AR layout 04/05/2000
   1:52 PM Page 10 NASA Mission than 1 percent. Over the past 10 years,
   the NASA budget has continued to To advance and communicate scientific
   knowledge and decline. See "Budget Trends."Important scientific and
   engineering advances continue to be made with fewer understanding of
   Earth, the solar system, and the universe resources. and use the
   environment of space for research Recent Program Trends In the face of
   declining budgets, changes have been made in program emphasis during
   the last few years.The To advance human exploration, use, and
   development Agency has reoriented its budgets con- sistent with its
   strategic planning and of space missions-explore, use, and enable the
   development of space; advance scien- tific knowledge; and research,
   develop, verify, and transfer space-related tech- nologies. Declining
   resources have To research, develop, verify, and transfer advanced been
   allocated to mission-related top priorities: safely operating the Space
   aeronautics, space, and related technologies Shuttle, developing and
   operating the International Space Station, and main- taining a strong
   program of science and technology development. How Budget Resources Are
   Spent NASA spends the greatest part of its resources through contracts
   for a wide variety of programs for related support and services, as
   well as the acquisition of capital assets. NASA also supports a civil
   service workforce and spends significant resources through grants,
   principally research grants with col- leges and universities.A variety
   of reim- bursable programs are also provided to 10 | NASA 1999
   Accountability Report * 99 AR layout 04/05/2000 1:52 PM Page 11
   Federal, commercial, and international agency customers. NASA
   Fundamental Questions NASA Budget Request for FY 2001 1. How did the
   universe, galaxies, stars, and planets form and evolve? How can our
   exploration of the universe and our solar system revolu- The budget
   request for Fiscal Year (FY) 2001 reaffirms the Agency's commit-
   tionize our understanding of physics, chemistry, and biology? ment to a
   balanced aeronautics and space program. Priorities include a com- 2.
   Does life in any form, however simple or complex, carbon-based or
   mitment to safety for human aeronautics other, exist elsewhere than on
   planet Earth? Are there Earth-like plan- and space flight, the assembly
   of the ets beyond our solar system? International Space Station, and
   the development of the Next Generation Launch Vehicle.The budget also
   provides 3. How can we utilize the knowledge of the Sun, Earth, and
   other plan- support for an aggressive space science etary bodies to
   develop predictive environmental, climate, natural program, a program
   of long-term obser- disaster, and natural resource models to help
   ensure sustainable vation, research, and analysis of Earth development
   and improve the quality of life on Earth? from space, and revolutionary
   advance- ments that will sustain global U.S. lead- ership in civil
   aeronautics and space. 4. What is the fundamental role of gravity and
   cosmic radiation in vital Steps have been taken to minimize sup-
   biological, physical, and chemical systems in space, on other plane-
   port costs, while focusing on low-cost, tary bodies, and on Earth, and
   how do we apply this fundamental high-payoff missions to maximize
   output from a decreasing budget base. knowledge to the establishment of
   permanent human presence in space to improve life on Earth? Under the
   current appropriations struc- ture and that for FY 2001, the Mission 5.
   How can we enable revolutionary technological advances to provide
   Support appropriation carries a portion air and space travel for
   anyone, anytime, anywhere more safely, more of the direct support
   required to exe- cute Enterprise programs.This includes affordably, and
   with less impact on the environment and improve busi- research and
   operations support and ness opportunities and global security? civil
   service salaries and travel.As NASA moves into the era of full-cost
   manage- 6. What cutting-edge technologies, processes, and techniques
   and engi- ment, the budget for these supporting neering capabilities
   must we develop to enable our research agenda in elements is expected
   to be directly allo- cated to programs and projects. the most
   productive, economical, and timely manner? How can we most effectively
   transfer the knowledge we gain from our research and discoveries to
   commercial ventures in the air, in space, and on Earth? NASA at a
   Glance | 11 * 99 AR layout 04/05/2000 1:53 PM Page 12 "In the Beginning
   Nothing Became Everything," acrylic by Paul Hudson. In his painting,
   the artist depicts the birth of the universe, the Big Bang. * 99 AR
   layout 04/05/2000 1:53 PM Page 13 SPACE SCIENCE to chart the evolution
   of the universe, from origins to destiny, and understand its galaxies,
   stars, planets, and life * 99 AR layout 04/05/2000 1:53 PM Page 14
   Mission and Questions The Space Science Enterprise (SSE) serves the
   human quest to understand our origin, exis- tence, and fate. Broadly
   stated, the SSE mis- sion is to solve mysteries of the universe,
   explore the solar system, discover planets around other stars, and
   search for life beyond Earth. In pursuing this mission, we develop,
   Fundamental questions for SSE are: * How did the universe begin, and
   use, and transfer innovative space technologies what is its ultimate
   fate? * How do galaxies, stars, and planets form and evolve? that
   support all of NASA's Enterprises and con- * What physical processes
   take place in extreme environments such as black holes? tribute to the
   Nation's global competitiveness. * How and where did life begin? * How
   is the evolution of life linked to planetary evolution and to cos- We
   provide scientific support to NASA's human mic phenomena? * How and why
   does the Sun vary and how do Earth and the planets exploration program
   and use our knowledge respond? * How might humans inhabit other worlds?
   and discoveries to enhance science, mathe- Goals and Objectives matics,
   technology education, and the scientif- In carrying out its mission,
   SSE's long- term goals are as follows: ic and technological literacy of
   all Americans. * Establish a virtual presence through- out the solar
   system, and probe deeper into the mysteries of the universe and life on
   Earth and beyond-a goal focused on the fun- damental science we will
   pursue * Pursue space science programs that enable and are enabled by
   future human exploration beyond low- Earth orbit-a goal exploiting our
   14 | NASA 1999 Accountability Report * 99 AR layout 04/05/2000 1:53 PM
   Page 15 Hubble Illuminates the Universe's Rate of Expansion synergy
   with the human explo- cal education goals of our Nation,and the NASA
   Strategic Plan and are elabo- ration of space share widely the
   excitement and inspi- rated in the Space Science Enterprise * Develop
   and utilize revolutionary ration of our mission and discover- Strategic
   Plan. As described in those technologies for missions impossible ies-a
   goal reflecting our commitment plans, these objectives are pursued in
   the past-a goal recognizing the to education and public outreach
   through a comprehensive and bal- enabling character of technology anced
   program of space science flight * Contribute measurably to achieving
   SSE's near-term objectives are identi- missions, technology
   development, and science,mathematics,and technologi- fied in the Space
   Science Roadmap in supporting scientific research. Space Science | 15 *
   99 AR layout 04/05/2000 1:54 PM Page 16 Chandra X-ray Image of Crab
   Nebula of their star. Other NASA-funded astronomers added to the list
   of known extrasolar planets, bringing the count to approximately 30 by
   the end of the year. An impact basin deep enough to swal- low Mount
   Everest and surprising slopes in Valles Marineris highlight a global
   map of Mars that will influence scientific understanding of the Red
   Planet for years. Generated by the Mars Orbiter Laser Altimeter (MOLA),
   the high-resolu- tion map represents millions of meas- urements
   gathered in 1998 and 1999. Accomplishments and is working well.After
   barely 2 months Evidence from this map has recently Performance
   Measures in space, CXO took a stunning image been interpreted to
   suggest that an enor- of the Crab Nebula, the most inten- mous ocean
   once existed on Mars. See Despite some well-publicized mission sively
   studied object beyond our solar "Mars Global Surveyor Provides First
   failures in 1999, notably the loss of the system, and revealed
   something never Global 3-D Map of Mars." Mars Climate Orbiter and Mars
   Polar before seen: a brilliant ring around the Lander upon their
   arrivals at Mars, SSE nebula's heart. Many other images Astronomers
   racing the clock managed also enjoyed a number of successes and have
   been released, and initial scientif- to take the first-ever optical
   images of continued to generate a stream of excit- ic results have been
   very exciting. See one of the most powerful explosions in ing
   scientific discoveries. Hubble scien- "Chandra X-ray Image of Crab
   Nebula." the universe-a gamma ray burst-just tists found a value for
   how fast the uni- as it was occurring on January 23,1999. verse is
   expanding after 8 years of Astronomers funded by NASA witnessed Such
   bursts occur with no warning and painstaking measurement. The rate of
   for the first time a distant planet passing typically last just for a
   few seconds. expansion,called the Hubble Constant,is in front of its
   star, providing direct and essential to determining the age and size
   independent confirmation of the exis- The Galileo spacecraft continued
   its inves- of the universe.Measuring Hubble's con- tence of extrasolar
   planets that to date tigations of Jupiter's moon Europa,expand- stant
   was one of the three major goals has been inferred only from the wobble
   ing the understanding of its history. for the telescope when it was
   launched in 1990. See "Hubble Illuminates the Universe's Rate of
   Expansion." Nearly a decade in development, the Chandra X-ray
   Observatory (CXO) was successfully launched in July 1999 and Mars
   Global Surveyor Provides First Global 3-D Map of Mars 16 | NASA 1999
   Accountability Report * 99 AR layout 04/05/2000 1:54 PM Page 17 the
   evolution of the universe, from ori- gins to destiny, and understand
   its galax- ies, starts, planets, and life" and "develop robotic
   missions as forerunners to human exploration beyond low-Earth
   orbit."These metrics specifically address the NASA strategy as noted in
   the NASA Views of Europa Roadmap to "deliver world-class pro- grams and
   cutting-edge technology Eight of the 10 required Europa data- new
   flight programs now have funded through a revolutionized NASA." taking
   flybys were successfully complet- components for outreach, and the
   ed.Approximately 0.7 percent of the sur- national space science network
   for col- Program Cost Status face of Europa has been covered at lecting
   and disseminating educational Versus Cost Commitment 30-meter
   resolution, but over 90 percent materials is in place.These steps lay
   the Performance Measure has been covered at lower resolution.Data
   groundwork for an expanded realiza- collected will help determine the
   pres- tion of the benefits of space science This measures the annual
   estimated cost ence and state of water, a central consid- expenditures
   in American society. of major missions in development versus eration in
   understanding the possibility of commitment to Congress.A gauge of suc-
   life on the moon.See "Views of Europa." SSE tracks programwide
   performance cess in meeting cost performance com- measures for several
   project-related mitments for major development pro- In the technology
   area,the Deep Space 1 areas: annual flight rate, spacecraft devel-
   grams within the Enterprise,this measure mission successfully
   demonstrated all opment time, development cost, and is the ratio of the
   present budget 12 of its advanced technology systems, total program
   cost versus including the first demonstration of an
   commitment.Activities in ion drive for primary propulsion. these areas
   support all of Successful demonstration in space opens the scientific
   objectives the door for each of the validated com- of the Enterprise,
   and ponents to be incorporated in future sci- performance in them ence
   missions, resulting in lower cost, reflects the Enterprise's better
   performance, or both. See "Deep strategy to "sustain an Space 1
   Encounter With an Asteroid." aggressive program of discovery while
   using Significant progress was achieved in lower cost missions."
   education and public outreach as Furthermore, near-term implementation
   of the Enterprise's SSE objectives support wide-ranging and systematic
   approach the Agency near-term to sharing results of its missions and
   goals, as depicted in the research began to reach maturity. All NASA
   Roadmap, "chart Deep Space 1 Encounter With an Asteroid Space Science |
   17 * 99 AR layout 04/05/2000 1:54 PM Page 18 125% 120% Goal: Remain
   less than 100% 115% 110% 105% 100% 95% 90% 85% 80% 1988 1989 1990 1991
   1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 Program Cost Status Versus Cost
   Commitment estimates compared to the commitments major SSE missions in
   development was edge with our customers and contribute made by the
   Agency to Congress on the estimated to be 91 percent of commit- to
   educational excellence." Furthermore, maximum cost for each major SSE
   space- ments to Congress,an excellent perform- this objective responds
   specifically to the craft. The commitment to Congress is ance rating.
   See "Program Cost Status NASA mission "to advance and communi-
   established at the time the program Versus Cost Commitment." cate
   scientific knowledge and under- moves from planning and design into
   standing."Two metrics are tracked as gen- development. The goal is to
   remain In addition to science and mission goals, eral indicators of
   success in this area: a below 100 percent, demonstrating that SSE also
   tracks its ongoing performance measure of the percentage of the year's
   SSE is doing better than its commitments in providing benefits to
   society,including most noteworthy science achievements to Congress in
   holding down the cost of public science awareness and postsec-
   attributable to SSE programs and a meas- major spacecraft. ondary
   education. ure of the educational impact of NASA's science
   contributions at colleges and uni- This area has shown continued
   improve- Providing Benefits to Society versities across the Nation.
   ment in recent years; many larger Performance Measure missions which
   exceeded their cost com- Performance on these metrics is best mitments
   have been launched, while SSE continues to use our knowledge and
   assessed by looking at long-term trends. most recent missions are being
   complet- discoveries to enhance science, mathe- The goal of these
   metrics is for NASA to ed within or under commitment. For matics, and
   technology education and continue to produce a substantial share FY
   2000 through 2001,it is expected that the scientific and technological
   literacy of science news and textbook contribu- our actual performance
   on this metric of all Americans. This objective con- tions. The science
   impact measure is will likely stay between 90 and 100 per- tributes to
   the achievement of the goal in based on Science News magazine's end-
   cent. In FY 1999, the average cost of the NASA Roadmap to "share new
   knowl- of-year summary of approximately 18 | NASA 1999 Accountability
   Report * 99 AR layout 04/05/2000 1:54 PM Page 19 150 "most important
   stories" from all The educational impact measure is gram with the
   previous analysis of the fields of science. By the level of its con-
   based on the percentage of NASA's con- most recent edition of the
   textbook, tribution to this independent ranking of tribution to a
   leading college space sci- the new total contribution is 31 per-
   science results, SSE's work can be com- ence textbook Astronomy: From
   the cent.This metric is derived from infor- pared to NASA's historical
   performance Earth to the Universe by Jay Pasachoff mation received from
   Enterprise edu- and current worldwide scientific output over time (from
   1975 to 1996). A 24- cation and public outreach functions in terms of
   relevancy and interest to the page supplement to the college text- and
   provides an independent indica- public.In 1999,space science accounted
   book was published in 1999; combin- tion of the Agency's contributions
   to for 5 percent of the "most important sto- ing the portion of the new
   material the educational needs of students. See ries,"well above the
   historical average. based on NASA's space science pro- "Providing
   Benefits to Society." 10% 40% Goal: Continue to produce substantial
   shares of science news and knowledge Science News Metric 30% Textbook
   Metric 5% 20% 10% 0% 0% 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88
   89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 NASA percentage of reported Percentage
   of textbook based worldwide scientific discovery on NASA Space Science
   Providing Benefits to Society Space Science | 19 * 99 AR layout
   04/05/2000 1:55 PM Page 20 "Amazon Rivers," batik on silk by Mary Edna
   Fraser. This painting depicts NASA's efforts to better understand our
   environ- ment. The work aims to honor Earth's fragility and perhaps
   conveys a peaceful environmental communica- tion linking humankind. *
   99 AR layout 04/05/2000 1:58 PM Page 21 EARTH SCIENCE to understand the
   total Earth system and the effects of natural and human-induced changes
   on the global environment * 99 AR layout 04/05/2000 1:58 PM Page 22
   Mission and Questions The Earth Science Enterprise (ESE) mission is to
   understand the total Earth system and the effects of natural and
   human-induced changes on the global environment and to conduct glob- al
   and regional research requiring the vantage point of space. ESE
   programs advance the new discipline of Earth system science, with a
   near- Obtaining data from the private sector where applicable is an
   emerging feature of the Enterprise strategy to term emphasis on global
   climate change. In reduce costs and encourage growth of a viable
   commercial remote-sensing industry in the United States. concert with
   research and industry partners, ESE addresses most directly two of the
   six fundamental questions NASA has research results will contribute to
   the develop- established to focus its activities: * How can we utilize
   the knowledge ment of environmental policy and economic of the Sun,
   Earth, and other plane- tary bodies to develop predictive
   environmental, climate, natural dis- investment decisions. Knowledge
   and discover- aster, and natural resource models to help ensure
   sustainable develop- ment and improve the quality of life ies are
   shared with the public to enhance sci- on Earth? * What cutting-edge
   technologies, processes, and techniques and engi- ence, mathematics,
   and technology education neering capabilities must we devel- op to
   enable our research agenda in the most productive, economical, and
   increase the scientific and technological and timely manner? How can we
   most effectively transfer the knowl- edge we gain from our research and
   literacy of all Americans. The same spirit of discoveries to commercial
   ventures in the air, in space, and on Earth? innovation that embodies
   the ESE flight pro- Goals and Objectives ESE has established these
   goals and grams applies to technology development. objectives to
   fulfill its mission: 22 | NASA 1999 Accountability Report * 99 AR
   layout 04/05/2000 1:58 PM Page 23 * Expand scientific knowledge of the
   Earth system using NASA's unique capabilities from the vantage points
   of space, aircraft, and in situ plat- forms:  Understand the causes and
   con- sequences of land-cover and land-use change and impacts on
   sustained productivity  Develop and improve the capabil- ity to predict
   seasonal-to- interannual climate variability  Understand Earth system
   process- es to better predict natural haz- Map of the Oceans ards and
   mitigate natural disasters  Understand the causes and  Extend the use
   of ESE research to term weather prediction and avail- impacts of
   long-term climate vari- national,state,and local applications ability
   of fresh water globally. ESE pro- ations on global and regional
   Support the development of a duced near-daily ocean color maps scales
   robust commercial remote-sens- that help us understand the role of
   Understand the concentrations ing industry oceans in removing carbon
   dioxide and distributions of ozone in the  Make major scientific
   contribu- from the atmosphere. See "Map of the stratosphere and
   troposphere tions to national and international Oceans." In addition,
   the Enterprise * Disseminate information about the environmental
   assessments. documented the waxing and waning Earth system: of El Niño,
   enabling seasonal climate  Improve the dissemination of Accomplishments
   and prediction, and resumed global meas- Earth Science research results
   Performance Measures urement of winds at the ocean sur-  Increase
   public understanding of face to improve short-term weather Earth system
   science through FY 1999 was a year of substantial sci- prediction and
   tracking of major hur- education and outreach entific accomplishment in
   our under- ricanes and tropical storms globally. * Enable the
   productive use of ESE standing of the major elements that See "View of
   El Niño." science and technology in the pub- comprise the Earth system.
   Over the lic and private sectors: oceans, ESE reduced the uncertainty
   The Sensor Intercomparison and Merger  Develop and transfer advanced in
   global rainfall over the tropics for Biological and Interdisciplinary
   remote sensing technology by one-half, helping improve short- Ocean
   Studies (SIMBIOS) project devel- Earth Science | 23 * 99 AR layout
   04/05/2000 1:58 PM Page 24 model has been successfully initialized na
   such as El Niño/La Niña and major using Special Sensor Microwave/Imager
   hurricanes, including the three that View of El Niño (SSM/I) surface
   winds data,a combination threatened the American coasts simul- of in
   situ and remotely measured taneously in November of 1999. See oped
   algorithms to interrelate and com- sea-surface temperatures and
   subsurface "Three Hurricanes Threaten the United pare data sets from
   different ocean color temperature data. An assimilation of States."
   scanners, such as the India-sponsored sea-surface height data from the
   Modular Optoelectronic Scanner (MOS) Ocean Topography
   Experiment/Poseidon Over the ice caps, researchers deter- and the U.S.
   Sea-viewing Wide Field-of- (TOPEX/Poseidon) is now under way mined the
   thinning and thickening view Sensor (SeaWiFS).These algorithms with the
   Ensemble Kalman Filter and will rates for the Greenland ice sheet, and
   are used to merge the data sets and pro- be used for the initialization
   of the cou- provided the first detailed radar mosaic duce more
   comprehensive information pled forecast experiments. of Antarctica and
   daily observations of about global ocean productivity. New the polar
   regions from space. See data products quantifying global tree The Quik
   Scatterometer (QuikSCAT) "Detailed Radar Map of Antarctica." cover
   percentage were created using spacecraft, launched in FY 1999, joins
   space-based observations as a first step TRMM and the TOPEX/Poseidon to
   Over the land, ESE produced the first toward improving estimates of
   above- form a powerful suite of space-based satellite-derived
   assessments of global for- ground carbon storage in global forests.
   observational assets to track phenome- est cover with the launch of
   Landsat 7, The Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission (TRMM), launched in
   1997, continued to gather information on rainfall in the tropics where
   two-thirds of global pre- cipitation falls.This is the key to under-
   standing Earth's hydrological cycle, one of the three major processes
   driving Earth's climate and the global heat bal- ance that drives
   seasonal change. The NASA Seasonal to Inter-annual Prediction Project
   (NSIPP) has imple- mented a baseline coupled climate pre- diction
   system, consisting of the Aries global atmospheric model coupled to the
   Poseidon global ocean model. Experimental forecasts are able to predict
   tropical Pacific sea-surface temperatures up to 6 months in advance.
   The ocean Three Hurricanes Threaten the United States 24 | NASA 1999
   Accountability Report * 99 AR layout 04/05/2000 1:59 PM Page 25 began
   refreshing the global archive of Thermal Emission and Reflection
   management practitioners, including 30-meter land cover data,and
   conducted Radiometer (ASTER) instruments have the Federal Emergency
   Management an international field experiment in been developed to
   collect global and Agency (FEMA) and state and local Amazonia to help
   understand the role of regional data on temperature and pre- agencies,
   to better understand emer- vegetation on Earth in removing carbon
   cipitation to measure the solar radia- gency management requirements
   and dioxide from the atmosphere. tion reaching Earth. Data from these
   better communicate and apply sci- instruments, combined with data from
   ence results, technology, and data to ESE provided technology and
   instru- the Clouds and the Earth's Radiant operational needs. Some
   highlights ments to allow for several new obser- Energy System (CERES)
   will enable include: vations. Single-pass interferometric NASA to
   estimate Earth's solar and Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) data infrared
   radiative fluxes, which in turn * Interferometric SAR data have made
   are collected; the first consistent global will determine the heating
   and cooling important observational discoveries, topography data from
   space.These data of Earth and its atmosphere. including a nonlinear
   elastic crustal will have a variety of applications, response to the
   Manyi earthquake including assessing flood hazards, lay- The Solid
   Earth and Natural Hazards in the Tibetan region. Such a ing out new
   roadways and pipelines, program partnered with several disaster
   response has only been observed providing airline operators with
   detailed elevation data for remote areas, and helping disaster manage-
   ment in general. The Shuttle Radar Topography Mission (SRTM) instrument
   was developed to create a near-global high-resolution digi- tal
   elevation topographic map of the world.The data set obtained from SRTM
   will allow scientists in Federal, state, and local agencies and
   academia to study the terrain for basic research, such as ecolo- gy,
   geology, geodynamics, hydrology, and atmospheric modeling, as well as
   appli- cations such as urban and infrastructure planning and disaster
   management. The Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS),
   the Multi- Angle Imaging Spectroradiometer (MISR), and the Advanced
   Spaceborne Detailed Radar Map of Antarctica Earth Science | 25 * 99 AR
   layout 04/05/2000 1:59 PM Page 26 involved within the applications,
   State and local government, and commercial sectors. We have also
   established the Regional Earth Science Applications Centers, focused on
   end-to-end proj- ects involving academia, and a wide array of end user
   practitioners. See "All ESARP Projects." ESE tracks three types of
   programwide All ESARP Projects performance measures: how well it makes
   data available to scientists, its previously in laboratory experi-
   relation.The Enterprise implemented a contribution to Earth science
   educa- ments. 17-year data record of aerosols and tion, and the
   practical application of its * Interferometric SAR data have been cloud
   properties toward predicting research. used to identify and model the
   annual to decadal climate variations via emplacement and movement of
   our satellite measurements from the Data Made Available magma within
   active volcanoes, Stratospheric Aerosol and Gas to Scientists including
   Mt. Etna in Italy and Experiment (SAGE). The Total Ozone Mammoth
   Mountain in California. Mapping Spectrometer (TOMS) contin- NASA tracks
   these three performance This has provided insights into the ues to
   provide the global view of how measures regarding ESE's first-line cus-
   internal workings of the volcanoes ozone is responding to these reduc-
   tomers-the scientists and others who as well as assessments of their
   state tions in atmospheric halogen burden. It use Earth science data
   products. of activity. is providing new data products, such as
   Accordingly,ESE is making a substantial * Mathematical and numerical
   model- tropospheric ozone columns. investment in data and information
   ing infrastructure and capabilities services to make these data
   products for developing general earthquake The Enterprise has continued
   to broad- readily accessible. Science data prod- models, measuring
   volcanic infla- en its capabilities to maximize the dis- ucts are made
   accessible through a set tion and deflation, and integrating semination
   and use of data and infor- of DAACs.For 1999,NASA has achieved Global
   Positioning System (GPS) mation. A working prototype federa- its goal
   of continued increases in these geodetic and interferometric SAR tion
   program was begun in 1998, measures. data for the inversion of crustal
   which is now beginning to mature as a strain have been established.
   coordinated network of Earth Science * A total 284 terabytes of data
   has Information Partners. These partners been archived. In the
   atmosphere, ESE continued to are working with our Distributed * A total
   of 1,233,666 users accessed measure concentrations of both ozone Active
   Archive Centers (DAACs) to pro- the DAACs. and ozone-depleting
   substances and vide new research products and prod- * A total of
   5,783,425 data products assess the recovery of upper ozone cor- ucts
   targeted to specific communities has been delivered to users. 26 | NASA
   1999 Accountability Report * 99 AR layout 04/05/2000 1:59 PM Page 27
   See "Data Volume Archived at the Practical Applications performance
   measure is to increase DAACs (in terabytes)," "Number of of Earth
   Science the number of partnerships with out- Distinct Users Accessing
   the DAACs," Performance Measure side entities for using Earth science
   and "Number of Products Delivered by information.The Commercial Remote
   the DAACs." The Enterprise also has an interest in Sensing Program is
   engaged in more seeing that its research results in prac- than 100
   partnerships with commer- Education in Earth Sciences tical
   applications in the U.S. economy. cial entities for the development of
   Performance Measures To this end, the Commercial Remote "value-added"
   remote-sensing infor- Sensing Program, at Stennis Space mation
   products.The number of part- Education in the Earth sciences is one
   Center, works with U.S. industries to nerships increased significantly
   over of the key products of ESE. Its exten- help them become suppliers
   of 1998 (37) and exceeds the FY 1999 sive and growing collection of
   science remote-sensing data. The goal of this goal of 75. data and
   research results is used to develop new educational products 300 and
   support curriculum development and teacher training. The Enterprise 200
   had the following accomplishments in 100 FY 1999: 0 * ESE has an annual
   target of sponsor- FY97 FY98 FY99 ing at least 300 workshops to train
   teachers in the use of its education Data Volume Archived at the DAACs
   (in terabytes) products. In FY 1999, 477 work- shops were sponsored. *
   ESE met its annual target of award- 1,500,000 ing 50 new graduate
   student research fellowships in FY 1999. 1,000,000 * ESE is a key
   participant in the 500,000 Global Learning and Observations to Benefit
   the Environment 0 (GLOBE) program, which involves FY97 FY98 FY99
   schools in collecting temperature, precipitation, and related data
   around the world.The number of Number of Distinct Users Accessing the
   DAACs participating schools in FY 1999 g was 7,610, and the number of
   par- ticipating countries was 84. 6,000,000 4,000,000 2,000,000 0 FY97
   FY98 FY99 Number of Products Delivered by the DAACs Earth Science | 27
   * 99 AR layout 04/05/2000 1:59 PM Page 28 "Working in Space," oil by
   Linda Draper shows astronauts performing extravehicular activities
   (EVA) around the Shuttle's cargo bay area. * 99 AR layout 04/05/2000
   1:59 PM Page 29 HUMAN EXPLORATION AND DEVELOPMENT OF SPACE to open the
   space frontier by exploring, using, and enabling the development of
   space and to expand human experience into the far reaches of space * 99
   AR layout 04/05/2000 1:59 PM Page 30 Mission and Questions The mission
   of the Human Exploration and Development of Space (HEDS) Enterprise is
   to open the space frontier by exploring, using, and enabling the
   development of space and to expand the human experience into the far
   reaches of space. In exploring space, HEDS brings people and machines
   together to over- allow people to thrive physically and psychologically
   while exploring and opening the space frontier. come challenges of
   distance, time, and envi- HEDS seeks out synergies between com- mercial
   capabilities and Government ronment. The Space Shuttle and the
   needs-promoting investments in commercial assets as pathfinders in ISS
   commercial operations and reducing International Space Station (ISS)
   serve as the cost of Space Shuttle operations through
   privatization,eventual commer- cialization, and flying payloads. HEDS
   research platforms to pave the way for sus- serves as a catalyst for
   commercial space development by facilitating com- mercial research and
   product develop- tained human presence in space through crit- ment on
   the ISS and the Space Shuttle. HEDS pursues answers to numerous ical
   research on human adaptation. The research and engineering questions as
   we learn to live and work in space, including: Enterprise contributes
   new scientific knowl- * What is the fundamental role of gravity and
   cosmic radiation in vital edge by studying the effects of gravity and
   the biological, physical, and chemical systems in space, on other
   planetary bodies, and on Earth, and how do space environment on
   important biological, we apply this fundamental knowl- edge to the
   establishment of perma- nent human presence in space to chemical, and
   physical processes and devel- improve life on Earth? HEDS also plays an
   important role ops biomedical knowledge and technology to working with
   other Enterprises to pur- 30 | NASA 1999 Accountability Report * 99 AR
   layout 04/05/2000 2:01 PM Page 31 sue answers to other fundamental
   engineering, and commercial its assembly. The U.S.-owned, Russian-
   questions, including: objectives built Zarya Functional Cargo Block was
    Ensure and enhance the health, successfully launched and delivered to
   * Does life in any form, however sim- safety, and performance of orbit
   in November 1998, and the U.S.- ple or complex, carbon based or humans
   in space built Unity Node followed two weeks other, exist elsewhere
   than on plan-  Meet strategic space mission later and mated with Zarya.
   See "Mating et Earth? operations' needs while reducing of Zarya and
   Unity." costs and increasing standardiza- Goals and Objectives tion and
   interoperability The first ISS logistics mission was * Expand the
   commercial develop- completed in May 1999, delivering HEDS pursues the
   following goals and ment of space: almost 2 tons of supplies and equip-
   objectives to achieve its mission:  Facilitate access to space for com-
   ment, which will be needed to oper- mercial researchers ate and live on
   the ISS. The program * Expand the space frontier: * Share the
   experience and discovery completed the early phases of the  Enable
   human exploration of human space flight Multi-Element Integrated Test
   (MEIT) through collaborative robotic  Engage and involve all Americans
   with several ISS elements, including missions in the exploration and
   develop- the U.S. Laboratory Module, to suc-  Define innovative, safe,
   and afford- ment of space cessfully demonstrate overall hard- able
   human exploration mission  Increase the scientific, technologi- ware
   and software compatibility and architectures cal, and academic
   achievement of physical integration. See "The U.S.  Invest in enabling
   high-leverage the Nation by sharing our knowl- Laboratory Module."
   technologies edge, capabilities, and assets * Expand scientific
   knowledge: At the close of FY 1999, the on-orbit  In partnership with
   the scientific Accomplishments and vehicle was approaching 10 months
   community, use the space envi- Performance Measures of service with
   most on-orbit systems ronment to explore chemical, bio- operating at or
   above design specifi- logical, and physical systems International Space
   Station cations. While launching and main- * Enable and establish a
   permanent taining on-orbit operations, the pro- and productive human
   presence in FY 1999 was a proud and successful year gram continued to
   deliver all major Earth orbit: for the ISS program. The United States
   flight hardware.The ISS program also  Provide safe and affordable
   access and its international partners (Canada, successfully
   demonstrated its lead to space Europe, Japan, and Russia) made signifi-
   mission management responsibility,  Deploy and use the ISS to cant
   progress in the design and develop- continuing the excellent level of
   advance scientific, exploration, ment of the ISS.In FY 1999,HEDS began
   cooperation between the United Human Exploration and Development of
   Space | 31 * 99 AR layout 04/05/2000 2:01 PM Page 32 ties of the Space
   Shuttle program are to: (1) fly safely, (2) meet the flight mani- fest,
   (3) improve mission supportability, and (4) continuously improve the
   sys- tem.HEDS supported four Space Shuttle launches in FY 1999 while
   accomplish- ing several important improvement milestones for the
   Shuttle fleet:
