http://www.wstf.nasa.gov/Associ/Default.htm

   Site Index/Search
   About WSTF
   Site Closure Status
   Divider for Navigation menu
   Environmental
   Rocket Propulsion
   Materials
   Hazards Assessment
   Oxygen Systems
   Space Flight Hardware
   Launch & Landing
   Aerospace Services
   TDRSS
   divider bar for navigation menu
   Enabling Capabilities
   Doing Business
   with WSTF
   Educational Outreach
   Professional Associations
   Employment

   divider bar for navigation menu

   Johnson Space Center
   Home Page
   WSTF Internal Web


                              White Sands Space




     Educational and Professional Associations
     White Sands Test Facility (WSTF) has a long history of cooperation
     with educational institutions, professional associations, and the
     community. Whether officially supported or driven by employees
     volunteering their time and expertise, these associations provide
     many benefits to WSTF, its customers, its employees, and the
     community.


                                [sciads.gif]

     SCIAD
     Mars Settlement Design Competition
     WSTF employees work hand-in-hand with area school teachers in the
     Science Advisor Program (also known as SCIAD) to improve math,
     science, and technology education. They assist teachers with science
     curriculum, provide exciting demonstrations and hands-on activities
     for the students, arrange tours and special events like science
     nights, and often become positive role models for the students.

   Mars Settlement Design Competition

                                  [nma.jpg]

     NMA
     The NASA White Sands Chapter of the National Management Association
     (NMA) encourages all employees to develop leadership and management
     skills, become better communicators, and play active roles in their
     communities. NASA and all of the contractor organizations at WSTF
     and the nearby White Sands Complex sponsor the NMA Chapter. The
     chapter's mission is to provide leadership, professional, and
     personal development opportunities and related chapter activities
     that meet the needs of members and contribute to the effectiveness
     of the sponsoring organizations. Membership is open to all
     employees.

                                 [AIAA.gif]

      AIAA
     The American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) is the
     principal professional society and voice serving the aerospace
     industry. Its primary purpose is to advance the arts, sciences, and
     technology of aeronautics and astronautics and to foster and promote
     the professionalism of those engaged in these pursuits. The White
     Sands Space Harbor section of AIAA, of which many WSTF employees are
     members, sponsors guest lecturers and mini symposia, and grants
     annual cash awards to outstanding students in the Las Cruces and El
     Paso area. Section members serve on a variety of national technical
     committees.

                                 [ASTM.gif]

     ASTM
     WSTF works closely with the ASTM Committee G4 on Flammability and
     Sensitivity of Materials in Oxygen-Enriched Atmospheres. Several
     WSTF employees are members of the committee and are intimately
     involved with the development of test methods and recommended
     practices. All of the test methods associated with this committee
     are performed at WSTF. The committee's Technical and Professional
     Training Courses, "Fire Hazards in Oxygen Systems" and "Oxygen
     Systems Operations and Maintenance," are instructed by WSTF
     employees.

          [ISMAP:footer3.gif]-Link to doing business with WSTF Page

                    Web Accessibility and Policy Notices
       Responsible NASA Official: Jim Krupovage  Curator: Judy Corbett
                           Last Updated: 12/12/2001
