http://erc.msfc.nasa.gov/ia.html

                 MSFC NASA Educator Resource Center Network

    Visit Iowa State Department of Education Website! Welcome to the NASA
    Educator Resource Center located at the Western Hills Area Education
      Agency in Sioux City, Iowa. We are all about helping you increase
   student achievement by providing access to high quality NASA materials,
    projects, and training. It is our pleasure to help meet the needs of
       students and teachers in Iowa and across the tri-state region.
     * What does our Educator Resource Center offer?
     * When are teacher workshops held?
     * Where are you located?
     * How do I contact you?


                           What does our Educator
                           Resource Center offer?

                      When are teacher workshops held?

   We offer the typical selection of NASA materials. Personnel on our
   staff are heavily involved in video conferencing and the Internet and
   can help you to integrate these technologies with students. We also
   manage video conferencing projects related to NASA. Visit the Events
   Calendar and look for items in green which denotes workshops in Iowa.

                           Where are you located?

                            How do I contact you?

   The NASA Educator Resource Center is located in Sioux City, Iowa at the
   Western Hills Area Education Agency. We encourage you to stop in, call,
   or visit our web site.

                               Jim Christensen
                        Western Hills Area Education
                                  Agency 12
                           1520 Morningside Avenue
                            Sioux City, IA 51106
                             Phone: 712-274-6000
                         or (800)352-9040 Ext. 6211
                              FAX: 712-274-6069
                      E-mail: chri2000@aea12.k12.ia.us


          Home | Goals & Objectives | Contact Us | Other NASA ERC's
          NASA Online Resources | Events Calendar | NASA Alliances
                       NASA Education | MSFC Education
