http://wsom.nws.noaa.gov/manual/CHAPTERA/NA027045.HTML

                                                          NATIONAL
   Issue Date    Org. Code          WEATHER SERVICE         Program
   Part     Chap.
   11-27-70        W1x1              Operations Manual
   010          A          02

                               040

                      NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE MISSION

   Table of Contents:

   1.    Purpose

   2.    Mission

           2.1    Program Emphasis
           2.2    Mission and Employee Work Priorities

   3.    Relationships with Other Organizations and Groups

           3.1    Other NOAA Components
           3.2    Other Agencies
                   3.2.1     OMB Circular A-62
                   3.2.2     OMB Circular A-67
           3.3    International Community
           3.4    News Media and Telephone Companies
           3.5    Individual Cooperators
           3.6    Industrial Meteorologists

   4.    History and Legal Basis

       4.1 Establishment under Signal Corps-1870
       4.2 Transfer to Agriculture-1890
               4.2.1     Organic Act
               4.2.2     Air Commerce Act
               4.2.3     Flood Control Act
       4.3 Transfer to Commerce-1940
               4.3.1     Federal Aviation Act
       4.4 Formation of ESSA-1965
       4.5 Creation of NOAA-1970
       4.6 Cooperative Agreements
               4.6.1     Public Law 22
               4.6.2     Intergovernmental Cooperation Act
       4.7 Other Legislation of Interest
               4.7.1     False Weather Reports
               4.7.2     Coast Guard Support
               4.7.3     Coast Guard Ocean Stations
               4.7.4     Selected Spending Authority
               4.7.5     Acceptability of Certified Records
               4.7.6     Hydrologic Support to Department of Agriculture
               4.7.7     Hydrologic Support to Department of Interior
               4.7.8     Various Areas of Cooperation with FAA
               4.7.9     Transfer of Property from DOD
               4.7.10    Authority for Arctic Stations
   4.8    Authority for International Activities
     __________________________________________________________________

   1. Purpose. This chapter outlines the National Weather Service's
   mission, its historical and legal basis, and its relationship to other
   organizations and groups.

   2. Mission. The National Weather Service (NWS), under the National
   Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and Department of
   Commerce, is responsible for providing weather service to the Nation.
   It is charged with responsibility for observing and reporting the
   weather and with issuing forecasts and warnings of weather an` `loods
   in the interest of national safety and economy. Enabling legislation
   provides for:
   Public weather service
       River and flood service
       Specialized services to aviation, agricultural, forestry, marine,
       and commercial interests
       Climatological service (Environmental Data Service (EDS) has
       primary responsibility under the NOAA organization; the National
       Weather Service manages the field program for EDS; see section 3.1)
       Basic weather service, i.e., the observing, communications, and
       processing activities needed to support the other services.

   While military services are not part of the mission, the National
   Weather Service is responsible for providing many basic services to the
   Department of Defense. These services are coordinated through the
   Office of the Federal Coordinator. The Department of Defense operates
   its own weather service agencies to fulfill specialized and unique
   requirements.

   Within the framework outlined above,  and in very broad terms, the
   priorities for service to the Nation are:

     1. protection of life,
     2. protection of property, and
     3. promotion of the Nation's welfare and economy.

   The detailed responsibilities of the NWS within each service area will
   be found in the various parts of this manual as follows:


                                        Public           - Part C
                                        River and Flood  - Part E
                                        Aviation         - Part D
                                        Agricultural     - Part D
                                        Forestry         - Part D
                                        Marine           - Part D
                                        Commercial       - Parts C & D
                                        Climatological   - Part F
                                        Basic            - Parts B, C, & G

   2.1  Program Emphasis. The NWS can discharge its responsibilities only
   insofar as resources are made available to it directly or through
   cooperative arrangements. Allocating scarce resources is always a
   problem. Therefore, the plans and programs for carrying out the mission
   must be constantly reviewed in terms of the changing and ever-growing
   needs of the Napiin, with emphasis among service programs being revised
   as necessary.

   A good example of this changing emphasis is the aviation program.
   Aviation service demands have continued to grow. In order to help meet
   this demand, the Environmental Science Services Administration (ESSA),
   NOAA's predecessor, and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)
   developed the ESSA-FAA Memorandum of Agreement of 1965 under which the
   FAA assumed primary responsibility for pilot briefing and certain other
   activities (this will be eventually covered in more detail in D-01,
   "Aviation Weather Service Program"). This agreement has permitted the
   National Weather Service to place added emphasis on other activities
   vital to the various service programs, including aviation.

   2.2 Mission and Employee Work Priorities. The first responsibility of
   field employees who provide real-time forecast, warning, and observing
   services is to protect life and property. This means that the
   acquisition of data on severe or otherwise dangerous weather conditions
   and the preparation and dissemination of warnings and/or observations
   of such conditions, as appropriate, must take precedence over all other
   assigned activities.

   Conflicts in priorities occasionally arise, particularly for employees
   who may be on duty alone performing both surface observing and warning
   dissemination duties during adverse weather conditions. There are times
   when these duties seem equally important, usually when severe weather
   is imminent or occurring at or near the station. The dissemination of a
   severe weather or flood warning, including any necessary use of a
   locally available radar display, is the one activity which usually will
   take precedence over the surface observation. When the timing in the
   issuance of a warning is not quite so critical, e.g., the distribution
   of a heavy snow warning, the taking and dissemination of required
   observations will be given first priority. In the final analysis only
   the man on duty can properly assess the potential urgency in a given
   situation and he must make the final determination as to which
   responsibility, the observation or the warning, takes precedence since
   both involve life and property.

   3. Relationships with Other Organizations and Groups. Many other
   agencies and groups support the NWS in the performance of its mission.
   This is both necessary and proper. At the same time, the NWS sometimes
   performs services for other organizations. These important
   relationships and their relevance to the mission are recognized in the
   paragraphs below.

   3.1 Other NOAA Components. Climatological services are provided in
   cooperation with the Environmental Data Service (EDS). The EDS provides
   Washington-level program management for the climatological service, and
   funds and positions to operate the climatological field service. EDS
   also provides climatological data publications and analyses for local
   public service. The NWS supports EDS by providing climatological
   observational data, operating the climatological field service,
   performing simple climatological summarizations and furnishing
   climatological public service at local offices, and providing material
   for climatological publications.

   The NWS depends upon the National Environmental Satellite Service
   (NESS)and the Environmental Research Laboratories (ERL) for support in
   the areas of satellite data and basic research, respectively. The NWS
   provides communications support to other NOAA components, mainly NESS
   and National Ocean Survey (NOS), produces basic data used by the ERL,
   and reports earthquakes to the NOS.

   3.2  Other Agencies. Many other Federal, non-Federal, public, and
   private organizations make a very important contribution to the
   performance of the mission. Some of the more significant cooperative
   agreements, principally for observations and communications, exist
   with:

   Department of Defense (U. S. Navy; U. S. Air Force; Corps of Engineers,
   U. S. Army; and Office of Civil Defense)
   Department of  Transportation (Federal Aviation Administration and U.
   S. Coast Guard)
   Department of  Interior (Geological Survey and Bureau of Reclamation)
   National Aeronautics and Space Administration
   State Police and various other state organizations
   Airlines and (report management groups.

   The NWS also performs services for other Federal agencies on a
   reimbursable basis. Occasionally, these are services which could be
   construed as falling within the basic mission. In these instances, it
   is simply a matter of the other agency having the funds and a pressing
   need for the services, and the NWS not being in a position to support
   the activity directly.

   Some of the services the NWS performs are not within the basic mission
   but are performed because the necessary technical competence exists
   within the organization. The NWS supports such activities whenever
   possible without compromising its basic mission.

   3.2.1  OMB Circular A-62. Because of the growth in the meteorological
   activities of the various Federal agencies, Circular A-62 was issued on
   November 13, 1963. This circular prescribes policy guidelines and
   procedupaa for planning and conducting Federal meteorological services
   and applies research and development to improve such services.

   The impact of the circular is summarized in the first section:

   The guidelines (a) reaffirm the central role of the Department of
   Commerce with respect to basic meteorological services; (b) clarify the
   respective responsibilities of the Department of Commerce and the user
   agencies for basic and specialized meteorological services; (c)
   establish procedures to facilitate coordination and the timely
   resolution of outstanding issues; (d) provide for evaluating user
   requirements within the context of a balanced and integrated Federal
   plan; and (e) fix responsibility for continuing and systematic review
   of meteorological services and supporting research.

   The Office of the Federal Coordinator for Meteorological Services and
   Supporting Research, NOAA Headquarters, is responsible for ensuring
   that the requirements of the circular are met.

   3.2.2 OMB Circular A-67. This circular provides for the coordination of
   Federal activities in the acquisition of certain water data. Guidelines
   are prescribed for coordinated activities in acquiring water data from
   streams, lakes, reservoirs, estuaries, and ground plots and
   experimental watersheds, and data on precipitation, evaporation, snow
   accumulation, and soil moisture.

   The Department of the Interior has been assigned the responsibility for
   leadership in the discharge of activities under this circular through
   the Office of Water Data Coordination (OWDC) in the Geological Survey,
   Washington, D.C. A Federal Advisory Committee on Water Data provides
   coordinated interagency input to OWDC. The Associate Director
   (Hydrology) serves as NOAA/NWS member.

   3.3 International Community. The NWS has a definite obligation to
   support the activities of the international organizations such as the
   World Mepairological Organization and the International Civil Aviation
   Organization. These organizations promote mutually beneficial
   agreements and programs which enhance the ability of the NWS to perform
   its explicit national mission.

   3.4 News Media and Telephone Companies. The news media and the
   telephone companies (especially those operating highvolume automatic
   equipment dedicated to weather information) are essential to the NWS's
   service program. Without these outlets the task of relaying forecasts,
   warnings, and observational data in a timely fashion to the public
   would be virtually impossible. Their contribution does not stop there,
   however. The media also play an important role in disseminating various
   types of summaries, tabular data, and news stories and articles.

   3.5 Individual Cooperators. Thousands of private citizens make an
   invaluable contribution to the observing and warning activities. For a
   more detailed discussion on the largest groups involved see WSOM
   Chapters B-15, "Part-time Paid an Cooperative Surface Stations," B-17,
   "Suhstation Management," and B-21, "Severe Storm Networks."

   3.6 Industrial Meteorologists. NOAA and the NWS both encourage and
   support a healthy growth of the qualified private sector of
   meteorology. Guidelines on the relative roles of the NWS and the
   private sector are given in WSOM Chapter A-55, "Policy on Industrial
   Meteorology."

   4. History and Legal Basis. The NWS has a long history. It is important
   to consider this history and various laws, relating both directly and
   indirectly to its mission, in reviewing the current mission. (Note:
   Reorganization Plans No. 5 of 1950 and No. 2 of 1965 had the effect of
   substituting "Secretary of Commerce" for "Chief of   Bureau" and
   "Department of Commerce" for "Weather Bureau" in the various legal
   citations which follow. Also, legal authorities cited herein are not
   completely exhaustive and are subject to change. Therefore, legal
   questions regarding these authorities should be referred to the NOAA
   Staff Attorney.)

   4.1 Establishment under Signal Corps-1870. Dr. James Tilton, the
   Surgeon General of the Army, ordered the first government collection of
   weather observations. During the War of 1812, he directed his hospital
   surgeons to observe the weather and maintain climatological records.

   In 1849, an extensive meteorological system was established by
   Professor Joseph Henry of the Smithsonian Institution. This was
   accomplished by supplying the telegraph companies with weather
   measuring instruments. However, it was not until 1858 that the
   Institution began the practical application of meteorology by the
   preparation of a daily exhibit of weather reports on a map of the
   United States. This application continued until 1861 when it was
   discontinued after the outbreak of the Civil War.

   In 1869, Congressman H. E. Paine of Wisconsin introduced a bill for the
   establishment of a national weather service under the Secretary of War.
   This personal interest by the Congressman was created by I. A. Lapham
   of Milwaukee, an observer for the Smithsonian Institution. Lapham had
   repeatedly urged the creation of a weather warning system for Great
   Lakes shipping. Paine, however, viewed the system as having more
   worthwhile significance if it were a national service.

   The bill authorized and required the Secretary of War to provide for
   the taking of meteorological observations at military stations and
   other points in the United States and Territories of the United States,
   for giving nothaa on the Northern Lakes and on the sea coast, by
   magnetic telegraph and marine signals, of the approach and force of
   storms.

   The bill, as Joint Resolution HR143, was passed by the House of
   Representatives and Senate and signed by the President on February 9,
   1870. Because of the intense interest in weather observations displayed
   by Col. Albert J. Meyer, the head of the Signal Service, the authority
   for the newly created weather service was placed under his direction.

   4.2 Transfer to Agriculture-1890. In 1884, Congress appointed a Joint
   Commission to review the scientific work of the Government. The report
   of the Commission as issued in 1886, stated that the weather service
   did not belong in the military and it should be considered as a civil
   activity because of its nature and character.

   A number of Congressional bills were introduced but none was approved
   until the "Organic Act" of 1890. Under the provisions of this Act the
   Weather Service was transferred from the Signal Corps to the Department
   of Agriculture. The transfer was effective July 1, 1891.

   4.2.1 Organic Act. The Organic Act now reads:

   15 USC 313. Duties. The Secretary of Commerce ... shall have charge of
   the forecasting of the weather, the issuance of storm warnings, the
   display of weather and flood signals for the benefit of agriculture,
   commerce, and navigation, the gauging and reporting of rivers, the
   maintenance and operation of sea coast telegraph lines and the
   collection and transmission of marin` (ntelligence for the benefit of
   commerce and navigation, the reporting of temperature and rainfall
   conditions for the cotton interests, the display of frost and cold-wave
   signals, the distribution of meteorological information in the
   interests of agriculture and commerce, and the taking of such
   meteorological observations as may be necessary to establish and
   r-ecord the climatic conditions of the United States, or as are
   essential for the proper execution of the foregoing duties.

   4.2.2 Air Commerce Act. The Air Commerce Act of 1926 added a new area
   of responsibility for providing weather services. The rapid growth of
   civil aviation created a demand for such services. The Act reads in
   part:

   It shall be the duty of the Secretary of Commerce ... (a) to furnish
   such weather reports, forecasts, warnings, and advices as may be
   required to promote `he safety and efficiency of air navigation in the
   United State5 and above the high seas, particularly upon the civil
   airways designated by the Secretary of Commerce under authority of law
   as routes suitable for air commerce, and (b) for such purposes to
   observe, measure, and investigate atmospheric phenomena and establish
   meteorological offices and stations.

   4.2.3 Flood Control Act. Another area of responsibility was created by
   the Flood Control Act of 1938 (33 USC 706). This Act came into being as
   a result of the need for a more effective warning and flood control
   system. The Flood Control Act of 1938 authorized allotment of funds
   from appropriations for flood control for the establishment, operation,
   and maintenance of a current information service on precipitation,
   flood forecasts, and flood warnings, whenever in the opinion of the
   Chief of Engineers and the Secretary of Commerce such service is
   advisable in connection with flood control purposes. The Congressional
   bill reads:

   33 USC 706. Current information, appropriations. There is authorized an
   expenditure as required, for any appropriations heretofore or hereafter
   made for flood control, rivers and harbors, and related purposes by the
   United States, for the establishment, operation, and maintenance by the
   Weather Bureau of a network of recording and non-recording
   precipitation stations, known as the Hydroclimatic Network, whenever in
   the opinion of the Chief of Engineers and the Secretary of Commerce
   such service is advisable in connection with either preliminary
   examinations and surveys or work improvement authorized by the law for
   flood control, rivers and harbors, and related purposes, and the
   Secretary of the Army upon the recommendation of the Chief of Engineers
   is authorized to allot the Department of Commerce funds for said
   expenditure.

   4.3 Transfer to Commerce-1940. The NWS remained under the authority of
   the Department of Agriculture for almost fifty years. Then on June 30,
   1940, the Weather Bureau was transferred to the Department of Commerce.
   In relevent part the reorganization plan now reads:

   Reorganization Plan No. 4 of 1940, Transfer of Weather Bureau. The
   Weather Bureau in the Department of Agriculture and its functions are
   transferred to the Department of Commerce and shall be administered
   under the direction and supervision of the Secretary of Commerce:
   Provided, that the Department of Agriculture may continue to make snow
   surveys and to conduct research concerning: (a) relationships between
   weather and crops, (b) long-range weather forecasting, and (c)
   relationships between weather and soil erosion (Effective June 30,
   1940, 5 H.R. 2421, 54 Stat. 1236.)

   In his message which accomplished Reorganization Plan 4, President
   Roosevelt made the following reference to the Weather Bureau:

     "...The importance of the Weather Bureau's function to the Nation's
     commerce has also led to the decision to transfer this Bureau to the
     Department of Commerce. The development of the aviation industry has
     imposed upon the Weather Bureau a major responsibility in the field
     of Air Transportation. The transfer to the Department of Commerce,
     as provided in this plan, will permit better coordination of
     Government activities relating to aviation and to commerce generally
     without in any way lessening the Bureau's contribution to
     agriculture...."

   4.3.1 Federal Aviation Act. Public Law 85-726 (49 USC 1463), effective
   August 23, 1958, also known as the Federal Aviation Act, broadened the
   scope of responsibility of the Secretary of Commerce concerning air
   navigation. It provides:

   49 USC 1463. National Weather Service. In order to promote safety and
   efficiency in air navigatihh to the highest possible degree, the
   Secretary of Commerce, shall, in addition to any other functions or
   duties pertaining to weather information for other purposes, (1) make
   such observations, measurements, investigations, and studies of
   atmospheric phenomena, and establish such meteorological offices and
   stations, as are necessary or best suited for ascertaining, in advance,
   information concerning probable weather conditions; (2) furnish such
   reports, forecasts, warnings, and advices to the Administrator, and to
   such other persons engaged in civil aeronautics as may be designated by
   the Administrator, and to such other persons as the Secretary of
   Commerce may determine, and such reports shall be made in such a manner
   and with such frequency as will best result in safety in and in
   facilitating air navigation; (3) cooperate with persons engaged in air
   commerce,  or employees thereof,  in meteorological service, establish
   amd maintain reciprocal arrangements under which this provision is to
   be carried out and collect and disseminate weather reports available
   from aircraft in flight; (4) establish and coordinate the international
   exchanges of meteorological information required for the safety and
   efficiency of air navigation; (5) participate in the development of an
   international basic meteorological reporting network, including the
   establishment, operation, and maintenance of reporting stations on the
   high seas, in polar regions, and in foreign countries in cooperation
   with other Governmental agencies of the United States and the
   meteorological services of foreign countries and with persons engaged
   in air commerce; (6) coordinate meteorological requirements in the
   United States in order to maintain standard observations,   promote
   efficient use of facilities and avoid duplication of service unless
   such duplication tends to promote the safety and efficiency of air
   navigation; and (7) promote and develop meteorological science and
   foster and support research projects in meteorology through the
   utilization of private and governmental research facilities and provide
   for the publication of the results of such research projects unless
   such publication would be contrary to the public interest. (Pub. L.
   85-726, title VIII, 803, Aug. 23, 1958, 72 Stat. 783.)

   4.4 Formation of  ESSA-1965. In 1964 Dr. J. Herbert Hollomon, Assistant
   Secretary of Commerce for Science and Technology at the time,
   established a committee to review environmental science service
   activities of the Department. He asked the committee--composed of Dr.
   Allen V. Astin, Director of the National Bureau of Standards, Adm. H.
   Arnold Karo, then Director of the Coast and Geodetic Survey, and Dr.
   Robert M. White, then Chief of the Weather Bureau-- to suggest ways of
   improving these programs and making them more effective and economical.
   The special committee, with the advice and council of a panel of
   eminent non-Government scientists, recommended the creation of a new
   organization, bringing together the environmental science service
   activities of the Weather Bureau, the Coast and Geodetic Survey, and
   the Central Radio Propagation Laboratory of the National Bureau of
   Standards. The committee's recommendation was approved by Assistant
   Secretary Hollomon, by the Secretary of Commerce, and finally by the
   President.

   On May 13, 1965, President Johnson submitted to Congress his
   Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1965, proposing the consolidation of the
   Coast and Geodetic Survey, the Weather Bureau, and the Central Radio
   Propagation Laboratory to form the Environmental Science Services
   Administration. In the words of the President, ESSA would provide "a
   single national focus to describe, understand, and predict the state of
   the oceans, the state of the upper and low``atmosphere, and the size
   and shape of the earth."

   Pursuant to Reorganization Plan No. 5 of 1950 and Reorganization Plan
   No. 2 of 1965,all functions, powers, and authorities contained in the
   statutes applicable to the functions exercised in the Department of
   Commerce, were vested in the Secretary of Commerce. Two months later,
   on July 13, ESSA came into being. A departmental order delegated
   authority to the Administrator, ESSA, for NWS activities provided for
   in earlier legislation.

   4.5 Creation of NOAA-1970. In 1966 the Congress passed Public Law
   89-454 which provided for the establishment of a Commission on Marine
   Science, Engineering and Resources to study a broad array of marine
   problems. The Commission was chaired by Mr. Julius A. Stratton,
   Chairman of the Ford Foundation,and included many distinguished
   citizens from the public and private sector, including the
   Administrator of ESSA, Dr. Robert M. White. The report of the
   Commission was issued in January of 1969. It contained series of
   recommendations for action, including one on the creation of a National
   Oceanic and Atmospheric Agency.

   After further study by the Executive Branch and some modification of
   the original proposal, President Nixon submitted to Congress on July 9,
   1970, his Reorganization Plan No. 4 of 1970 proposing the creation of
   NOAA within the U. S. Department of Commerce. This proposal involved
   the consolidation of ESSA; the Interior Department's Bureau of
   Commercial Fisheries, Marine Game Fish Research Program, and Marine
   Minerals Technology Center; the Navy-administered National
   Oceanographic Data Center and National Oceanographic Instrumentation
   Center; the Coast Guard's National Data Buoy Development Project; the
   National Science Foundation's National Sea Grant Program; and elements
   of the Army Corps of Engineers' U. S. Lake Survey.

   The following description of the hew agency was given by President
   Nixon in submitting the Reorganization Plan to the Congress:

     "NOAA would make possible a balanced Federal program to improve our
     understanding of the resources of the sea, and permit their
     development and use while guarding against the sort of thoughtless
     exploitation that in the past laid waste to so many of our precious
     natural assets. It would make possible a consolidated program for
     achieving a more comprehensive understanding of oceanic and
     atmospheric phenomena, which so greatly affect our lives and
     activities. It would facilitate the cooperation between public and
     private interests that can best serve the interests of all.

     "I expect that NOAA would exercise leadership in developing a
     national oceanic and atmospheric program of research and
     development. It would coordinate its own scientific and technical
     resources with the technical and operational capabilities of other
     government agencies and private institutions. As important, NOAA
     would continue to provide those services to other agencies of
     government, industry, and to private individuals which have become
     essential to the efficient operation of our transportation system,
     our agriculture, and our national security."

   NOAA came into being on October 3, 1970. Department Organization Order
   25-2A, October 9, 1970, delegated authority to the Administrator, NOAA,
   for weather service activities provided for in earlier legislation.
   Department Organization Order 25-2B, October 9, 1970, outlined the
   organization and states the following with respect to the NWS:

     The National Weather Service (NWS) shall observe and report the
     weather of the United States and its possessions and issue forecasts
     and warnings of weather and flood conditions that affect the
     Nation's safety, welfare and economy; develop the.National
     Meteorological Service System; participate in international
     meteorolo`iaal and hydrological activities, including exchanges of
     meteorological data and forecasts; and provide forecasts for
     domestic and international aviation and for shipping on the high
     seas.

   4.6 Cooperative Agreements. Two laws, Public Law 22 of the 66th
   Congress and Public Law 90-577, provide for cooperation with various
   agencies and groups.

   4.6.1 Public Law 22. Public Law 22 of the 66th Congress, (7 USC 450b)
   provides for agreement authority under which the National Weather
   Service may cooperate with other public and private organizations and
   receive reimbursement. This cooperative agreement authority extends to
   all functions of the NWS which existed in 1940 at the time that it was
   transferred to the Department of Commerce.

   4.6.2 Intergovernmental Cooperation Act. Public Law 90-577 (42 USC 4201
   et. seq.) (82 Stat. 1098), the Intergovernmental Cooperation Act of
   1968, provides for cooperation between the Federal Government and state
   and local governments on a reimbursable basis for the provision of
   technical and scientific services.

   4.7 Other Legislation of Interest. This section lists certain other
   legislation of interest in connection with the NWS's current mission.

   4.7.1 False Weather Reports. 18 USC 2074. Whoever knowingly issues or
   publishes any counterfeit weather forecast or warning of weather
   conditions falsely representing such forecast or warning to have been
   issued or published by the National Weather Service, National Oceanic
   and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce, or other branch
   of the Government service, shall be fined not more than $500 or
   imprisoned not more than ninety days or both. (June 25, 1948, ch. 645,
   62 Stat. 795.)

   4.7.2 Coast Guard Support. 14 USC 147. Department of Commerce (National
   Weather Service). In order to promote the safety of life and property
   on and over the high seas and waters over which the United States has
   jurisdiction, and to facilitate the preparation and dissemination by
   the Department of Commerce of the weather reports forecasts, and
   warnings essential to the safe and efficient conduct of domestic and
   international commerce on and over such high seas and waters, the
   Commandant may cooperate with the Secretary of Commerce by procuring,
   maintaining, and making available, facilities and assistance for
   observing, investigating, and communicating weather phenomena and for
   disseminating weather data, forecasts, and warnings, the mutually
   satisfactory terms of such cooperation in weather service to be agreed
   upon and arranged between the Commandant and the Secretary of Commerce.
   (Aug. 4, 1949, ch. 393, 63 Stat. 507.)

   4.7.3 Coast Guard Ocean Stations. 14 USC 90. (a) The Coast Guard is
   authorized to operate and maintain floating ocean stations for the
   purpose of providing search  and rescue, communication, and air
   navigation facilities, and meteorological services in such ocean areas
   as are regularly traversed by aircraft of the United States. (Aug. 4,
   1949, ch. 393, 63 Stat. 502; Aug. 23, 1958, Pub. L. 85-726, title XIV,
   1404, 72 Stat. 808.)

   4.7.4 Selected Spending Authority. 15 USC 325. Appropriations now or
   hereafter provided for the Department of Commerce shall be available
   for: (a) furnishing food and shelter, without repayment therefor, to
   employees of the Government assigned to Arctic stations; (b) equipment
   and maintenance of meteorological offices and stations, and maintenance
   and operation of meteorological facilities outside the United States by
   contract or otherwise; (c) repairing, altering, and improving of
   buildings occupied by the Department, and care and preservation of
   grounds, including the chhatruction of necessary outbuildings and
   sidewalks on public streets abutting the grounds of the Department of
   Commerce; (d) arranging for communication services at rates to be fixed
   by the Secretary of Commerce by agreement with the companies performing
   the services when determined to be advantageous to the Government; and
   (e) purchasing tabulating cards and continuous form tabulating paper .
   (June 2, 1948, ch. 373, 1 , 62 Stat. 286. )

   4.7.5 Acceptability of Certified Records. 28 USC 1733. (a) Books or
   records of account or minutes of proceedings of any department or
   agency of the United States shall be admissable to prove the act,
   transaction or occurrence as a memorandum of which the same were made
   or kept.

       (b)     Properly authenticated copies or transcripts of any books,
   records, papers or documents of any department or agency of the United
   States shall be admitted in evidence equally with the originals
   thereof. (June 25, 1948, ch. 646, 62 Stat. 946. )

   4.7.6 Hydrologic Support to Department of Agriculture. 16 USC 1005.
   Works of improvement; engineering and other services; Federal
   construction; submission of plans; regulations.

   NOTE: Ex. Ord. No. 10584, Dec. 20, 1954, 19 F.R. 8725, as amended by
   Ex. Ord. No. 10913, Jan. 19, 1961, 26 F.R. 510, provided:

   Section 7. Dasic Data. In the utilization of existing basic physical
   and economic data, and in the acquisition of additional basic data
   required for planning, design, construction, operation, and evaluation
   of works of improvement authorized under the Act (this chapter), the
   Department of Agriculture shall be assisted by the principal basic-data
   collection agencies, including Geological Survey in the Department of
   Interior and the Department of Commerce. The basic-data collection
   agencies shall assist and cooperate with the Department of Agriculture
   with respect to the following:

       (a)     Provision of pertineh` information in the preliminary
   planning of works of improvement.

       (b)     Collaboration in planning programs of hydrologic-data
   collection in project areas, in the selection of station sites and
   installation of equipment for collecting hydrologic-data, and in the
   collection of such data.

       (c)     Collaboration in the analysis and interpretation of
   hydrologic data collected specifically for projects initiated under the
   Act (this chapter), and of relevant data which may contribute to an
   analysis of the effects of such projects.

   4.7.7 Hydrologic Support to Department of Interior. 16 USC 1006. The
   Secretary (Interior) is authorized in cooperation with other Federal
   and with states and local agencies to make investigations and surveys
   of the watersheds of rivers and other waterways as a basis for the
   development of coordinated programs. In areas where the programs of the
   Secretary of Agriculture may affect the public or other lands under the
   jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Inp$"ior, the Secretary of the
   Interior is authorized to cooperate with the Secretary of Agriculture
   in the planning and development of works or programs for such lands.
   (Aug. 4, 1954, ch. 656, 6, 68 Stat. 668.)

   4.7.8 Various Areas of Cooperation with FAA. 40 USC 474. Congress,
   departments, agencies, corporations, and persons exempted from
   provisions. (14) the Administrator of the Federal Aviation
   Administration or the Secretary of Commerce with respect to the
   disposal of airport property and purpose for use as such property. For
   the purpose of this paragraph the terms "airport property" and "airway
   property" shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in the
   International Aviation Facilities Act. (June 30, 1949, ch. 288, title
   VI, 602 (c, d), formerly title V, 502, (c, d), 63 Stat. 401; Aug. 10,
   1949, ch. 412, 12 (a), 60 Atat. 591; renumbered and amended Sept. 5,
   1950, ch. 849, 6 (a, b), 7 (e), 8 (c), 64 Stat. 583, 590; Aug. 23,
   1958, Pb. L. 85-726, title XIV, 1406, 72 Stat. 808.)

   49 USC 1110. Project sponsorship; requirements; contracts between
   Administrator and public agencies; relief of sponsors. As a condition
   precedent to his approval of a project under this chapter, the
   Administrator shall receive assurances in writing, satisfactory to him
   that -

   #(6) the airport operator or owner will furnish without cost to the
   Federal Government for use in connection with any air traffic control
   activities, or weather-reporting activities and communication
   activities related to air traffic control, such areas of land or water,
   or estate therein, or rights in buildings of the sponsor as the
   Administrator may consider necessary or desirable for construction at
   Federal expense of space or facilities for such purposes; # (May 13,
   1946, ch. 251, 11, 60 Stat. 176.)

   49 USC 1152. Establishment and operation of airport and airway property
   (. foreign territories. Subject to concurrence of the Secretary of
   State, and with due regard for the objectives of the International
   Civil Aviation Organization, the Administrator of the Federal Aviation
   Administration (hereinafter referred to as the "Administrator") and the
   Secretary of Commerce, within their respective fields, are authorized,
   by contract or otherwise, to acquire, establish, and construct airport
   property and airway property in foreign territory; Provided, however,
   That, except in the case of airport property transferred under section
   1157 of this title, no airport (as defined in section 401 of this
   title) may be acquired, established, or constructed under authority of
   this section unless funds for such purpose have been specifically
   appropriated by the Congress. (June 16, 1948, ch. 473, 3, 62 Stat. 451;
   Aug. 23, 1958, Pb. L. 85-726, titleXIV, 1403, 72 Stat. 808.)

   49 USC 1153. Training of foreign nationals in aeronautics and related
   subjects. Subject to the concurrence of the Secretary of State, the
   Administrator and the Secretary of Commerce, within their respective
   fields, are authorized within or outside the United States to train
   foreign nationals directly, or in conjunction with any United States
   Government agency, or through any United States public or private
   agency (including any State or municipal educational institute), or
   through any international organization, in aeronautical and related
   subjects essential to the orderly and safe operation of civil aircraft.
   (June 14, 1948, ch. 473, 4, 62 Stat. 451.)

   49 USC 1154. Acceptance of foreign funds for facilities supplied or
   services rendered to foreign governments or international
   organizations. The Administrator and the Secretary of Commerce,
   respectively, are authorized to accept, on behalf of the United States,
   funds from any foreign government or from any international
   organizath.. as payment for any facilities supplied or services
   performed for such government or international organization by the
   Administrator or the Secretary of Commerce, either directly or
   indirectly, under authority of this chapter or the Civil Aeronautics
   Act of 1938, as amended, including the operation of airport property
   and airway property in such countries, the training of foreign
   nationals, the rendering of technical assistance and advice to such
   countries, and the performance of other similar services. Funds so
   received may be credited (A) to appropriations current at the time the
   expenditures are to be or have been paid, (B) to appropriations current
   at the time such amounts are received, or (C) in part as provided under
   clause (A) and in part as provided under clause (B). (June 14, 1948,
   ch. 473, 5, 62 Stat. 451.)

   49 USC 1155. Transference of airport or airway property to foreign
   governments or international organizations. The Administrator or the
   Secretary of Commerce, as the case may be, upon request of the foreign
   government involved or of any international organization, may transfer
   any airport property or airway property operated and maintained by him
   within foreign territory, pursuant to the provisions of this chapter,
   to the foreign government involved or to any international
   organization. The Administrator or the Secretary of Commerce, as the
   case may be, is authorized to make such transfer upon such terms and
   conditions as he deems proper, including provisions for receiving, on
   behalf of the United States, such payment of other consideration for
   the property so transferred as may be agreed upon through negotiations
   with the foreign government or international organization involved.
   (June 14, 1948, ch. 473, 6, 62 Stat. 452; Aug. 23, 1958, Pb. L. 85-726,
   title XIV, 1403, 72 Stat. 808.)

   49 USC 1159. Powers (International Aviation Facilities). (b) Secretary
   of Commerce. With regard to meteorological facilities in territory
   (including Alaska) outside the continental limits of the United States
   which he has acquired pursuant to this chapter or any other provisions
   of law, the Secretary of Commerce is vested with all powers to
   consolidate, operate, protect, maintain, improve, and administer
   granted the Administrator by subsection (a) of this section with
   respect to facilities the latter has acquired.

   (c) Disposition of receipts. All funds received under this secpiin, as
   a result of direct sale or charge by the Administrator or the Secretary
   of Commerce and which, in the judgement of the Administrator or the
   Secretary of Commerce, as the case may be, are equivalent to the cost,
   including handling charges, of the fuel, oil, equipment, food,
   supplies, services, shelter, or other assistance or services sold or
   furnished shall be credited to the appropriation from which the cost
   thereof was paid, and the balance, if any, shall be credited to
   miscellaneous receipts.

       (d) Leases or contracts unaffected by Section 5 of Title 41. The
   provisions of Section 5 of Title 41, shall not apply to any of the
   leases pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. (June 16, 1948, ch.
   473, 10, 62 Stat. 453.)

   49 USC 1160. Utilization of facilities and services of other Government
   agencies. The Administrator and the Secretary of Commerce are
   authorized and directed, in carrying out the provisions of this
   chapter, insofar as they find it practicable, to arrange for the use of
   appropriate facilities or services of other United States Government
   agencies, and to reimburse any such agency for such service out of
   funds appropriated to the Federal Aviation Administration or the
   Department of Commerce, as the case may be, to the end that personnel
   and facilities of existing United States Government receiving any such
   request is authorized to furnish such facilities or to perform such
   services. (June 16, 1948, ch. 473, 11, 62 Stat. 454; Aug. 23, 1958, Pb.
   L. 85-726, title XIV, 1403, 72 Stat. 808.)

   49 USC 1351. Meteorological service. The Administrator is empowered and
   directed to make recommendations to the Secretary of Commerce for
   providing meteorological service necessary for the safe and efficient
   movement of aircraft in air commerce. In providing meteorological
   services, the Secretary of Commerce shall cooperate with the
   Administrator and give full considepa`ion to such recommendations. (Pb.
   L. 85-726, title III, 310, Aug. 23, 1958, 72 Stat. 751.)

   4.7.9 Transfer of Property from DOD. 49 USC 1157. Transfer of certain
   property from the Department of Defense to the Administrator or
   Department of Commerce.

       (a)     When considered consistant with the needs of national
   defense, and subject to such conditions, if any, as may be agreed upon
   in specific cases between the parties, any department of the Department
   of Defense is authorized to transfer at its discretion to the
   Administrator, without charge thereof, airport property and airway
   property, exclusive of meteorological facilities, installed by or in
   the possession of such department in territory (including Alaska)
   outside the continental limits of the United States, which such
   department has found to be no longer required exclusively for h(,itary
   purposes and which in the opinion of the Administrator are, or are
   likely to become, necessary for carrying out the purposes of this
   chapter.

       (b)     When considered consistant with the needs of national
   defense, and subject to such conditions, if any, as may be agreed upon
   in specific cases between the parties, any department of the Department
   of Defense is authorized to transfer at its discretion to the Secretary
   of Commerce, without charge thereof, meteorological facilities
   installed by or in the possession of such department in territory
   (including Alaska) outside the continental limits of the United States,
   which such department has found to be no longer required exclusively
   for military purposes, and which, in the opinion of the Secretary of
   Commerce are, or are likely to become, necessary for carrying out
   purposes of this chapter.

       (c)     All property transferred to the Department of Commerce
   under the provision of Executive Order 9709, dated March 29, 1946, and
   Executive Order 9797, dated November 6, 1946, and which is in the
   possession of the Department of Commerce on June 16, 1948, shall be
   considered as property transferred pursuant to this section. (June 16,
   1948, ch. 473, 8, 62 Stat. 452; Aug. 10, 1949, ch. 412, 12, (a), 63
   Stat. 591; Aug. 23, 1958, Pb. L. 85-726, title XIV, 1403, 72 Stat.
   808.)

   49 USC 1158. Repossession of property transferred under Sections 1156
   and 1157 of this title. When necessary to meet military requirements,
   as determined by the Secretary of the department which made the
   transfer, such department is authorized immediately to retake any
   property transferred under Sections 1156 or 1157 of this title,
   together with any improvements or additions made thereto: Provided,
   That the Secretary of such department, upon the recommendation of the
   Administrator or the Secretary of Commerce, as the case may be, is
   authorized in any case to waive any right or privilege conferred or
   reserved by this section. In the event property is retaken which
   incorporates improvements or additions not made at Government expense,
   reasonable compensation shall be paid to the person or persons who made
   such improvements or additions, or to their successors in interest. The
   Secretary of the department which made the transfer, or his duly
   authorized representative, shall determine, for purposes of this
   section, what is reasonable compensation for such improvements or
   additions. (June 16, 1948, ch. 473, 9, 62 Stat. 453.)

   4.7.10 Authority for Arctic Stations. 15 USC 313a. Establishment of
   meteorological observation stations in the Arctic region. In order to
   improve the weather forecasting service of the United States and to
   promote safety and efficiency in civil air navigation to the highest
   possible degree, the Secretary of Commerce, shall, in addition to his
   other functions and duties, take such action as may be necessary in the
   development of an international basic meteorological reporting network
   in the Arctic region of the Western Hemisphere, including the
   establishment, operation, and maintenance of such reporting stations in
   cooperation with the State Department and other United States
   governmental departments and agencies, with the meteorological services
   of foreign countries and with persons engaged in air commerce. (Feb.
   12, 1946, ch. 4, 1. 60 Stat. 4.)

   15 USC 327. Employees for conduct of meteorological investigations in
   Ar``ic regions; appointment and compensation; extra compensation to
   other Government employees for taking observations. The Secretary of
   Commerce is authorized to (a) appoint employees for the conduct of
   meteorological investigations in the Arctic region without regard to
   the civil service laws and fix their compensation without regard to the
   Classification Act of 1949, as amended, and titles II and III of the
   Federal Employees Pay Act of 1945, as amended, at base rates not to
   exceed the maximum scheduled rate for GS-12, and (b) grant extra
   compensation to employees of other Government agencies for taking and
   transmitting meteorological observations. (As amended Mar. 28, 1960,
   Pb. L. 86-397, 2, 74 Stat. 11.)

   15 USC 329. Compensation of employees conducting meteorological
   investigations in Arctic region. Section, Pb. L. 85-469, title I, 101,
   June 25, 1958, 72 Stat. 230* Pb. L. 86-88, title I, 101, July 13, 1959,
   Stat. 207, which prescribed the maximum base rate of pay for employees
   conducting meteorological investigations in the Arctic region, was from
   an appropriation act and is omitted in view of Section 327 of this
   title which authorizes the Secretary of Commerce to establish the rates
   of compensation for such personnel. Provisions of this section were
   repeat-ed in Pb. L. 86-451, title I, 101, May 13, 1960, 74 Stat. 99.

   4.8 Authority for International Activities. Several of the authorities
   cited earlier support international activities in which the NWS is
   engaged. Senate Resolution 67, 90th Congress, 2nd Session, May 29,
   1968, and a Presidential memorandum dated July 5, 1968, provide the
   basis for support to WMO programs as do various appropriations acts.
     __________________________________________________________________




   [commerce.gif]
   U.S. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
                                                       National Oceanic
   and Atmospheric Administration
                                                          Washington, D.C.
   20230

                                                           OFFICE OF THE
   ADMINISTRATOR    August 29, 1977

   MEMORANDUM FOR ALL NOAA EMPLOYEES

   FROM:    RICHARD A. FRANK
                   ADMINISTRATOR

   SUBJECT:      REORGANIZATION OF NOAA

   Secretary of Commerce Juanita M. Kreps has just approved a
   recommendation for reorganization of NOAA. Although the changes
   involved will immediately affect only a small fraction of NOAA's
   employees, I believe you will want to know about the new structure and
   how it will be expected to operate.

   When I arrived at NOAA, I received a comprehensive reorganization
   Option Paper that had been prepared by the Assistant Secretary for
   Policy of the Department of Commerce. That paper had been stimulated by
   reorganization proposals suggested by Senator Hollings and the National
   Ocean Policy Study, and included options suggested by others, including
   the Department of Commerce, Dr. Robert M. White, and other NOAA
   personnel. I distributed the Option Paper to senior NOAA personnel,
   asked their views about reorganization, and met with them in groups and
   individually. Furthermore, I met with all potentially interested
   Members of Congress, Congressional committee staffs, interested persons
   in the Department of Commerce, White House staff, OMB staff, the
   scientific community, constituencies, and others in the ocean and
   atmospheric communities. During these meetings, I discussed several
   possible reorganization plans and solicited views.

   The overwhelming majority of individuals with whom I spoke believed
   that a reorganization was advisable, to make NOAA more cohesive and
   efficient, to improve specific aspects of the agency's operations, or
   simply to revitalize NOAA.

   On the basis of these discussions, I proposed to the Secretary that we
   adopt the structure outlined in the attached chart.

   The new structure will incorporate the following fundamental changes:

     -- The Associate Administrators would become line operators, rather
     than staff. They would be denominated Assistant Administrators, a
     title more commonly used in other agencies.

     -- The Environmental Research Labs, Sea Grant, and the Office of
     Ocean Engineering will be combined under an Assistant Administrator
     for research and development with the result that that Assistant
     Administrator will be a focus for oceanic and atmospheric science
     and would be the interface with the scientific and academic
     community.

     -- NOAA's major service functions, NWS, NESS, NOS, and EDS, will be
     combined under an Assistant Administrator for Oceanic Atmospheric
     Services.

     -- The Associate Administrator for Coastal Zone Management would
     remain essentially as that office now is (with the title changed to
     Assistant Administrator to parallel the other Assistant
     Administrators).

     -- An Assistant Administrator for Fisheries will be created, to be
     responsible for fisheries policy and the direction of the National
     Marine Fisheries Service, thus upgrading that function.

     -- An Assistant Administrator for Policy and Planning will be
     created.

     -- The offices of Associate Administrator for Marine Resources and
     Associate Administrator for Environmental Monitoring will be
     abolished.

     -- An Office of Ocean Management will be established. That office
     would plan for and assess ocean uses in a manner analogous to land
     use planning.

     -- An Office of National Climate Policy will be formed under the
     Assistant Administrator for Research and Development, to provide a
     focus for this important new mandate.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [assignment.gif]
     __________________________________________________________________

   This reorganization plan is currently being reviewed by the President's
   Reorganization Project at OMB and the House and Senate Appropriations
   Committees, and would be put into effect on October 1.

   In the interim I will be working with the MLC directors and other
   agency personnel and consulting with affected individuals to assure as
   smooth a transition as possible.

   If you have any questions about the impact of this reorganization or
   special concerns that you think have been neglected, please bring them
   to the attention of your supervisor, who is being provided with
   additional background information.

   My experience with NOAA's employees so far has persuaded me that this
   agency has an enormous amount of talent and capacity for work.
   Further, our responsibilities are interesting--indeed fascinating--and
   of great importance to the country. I hope that, with this new
   structure and your help, we can put those talents and capacities to
   even more effective use in carrying out NOAA's mission as the federal
   government's lead civilian oceans and atmospheric agency.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [commerce.gif]
   U.S. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
                                                       National Oceanic
   and Atmospheric Administration
                                                          Washington, D.C.
   20230            PA12

   February 19, 1974

   SUBJECT:      Transmittal Memorandum for Operations Manual Issuance
   74-7

   TO :    All Holders of Operations Manual

   1.    Material Transmitted:

   Revised Chapter A-05, Public Affairs.

   2.    Summary:

   This chapter gives general guidance for effective relationships with
   the public and the news media.

   Section 5 has been changed to reflect NOAA Directives Manual Guidance
   for information requests.

   3.    Effect on Other Instructions:

   This chapter cancels Chapter A-05,Public Information, TM 67-8 dated
   December 12, 1967 Part A Table of Contents should be changed to reflect
   the new title, "Public Affairs."

   George P. Cressman
   Director, National Weather Service
     __________________________________________________________________

   Issue Date    Org. Code   NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE       Part     Chap.
   2-19-74        PA12               Operations
   Manual                               A              05

                               PUBLIC AFFAIRS

   Table of Contents:

   1.   Purpose

   2.    Role of the Individual Employee

   3.    The Media

   4.    Written Reports

   * 5.    Routine Information Requests

                                  * * * * *

   1.   Purpose. This chapter gives general guidance for effective
   relationships with the public and news media in the dissemination of
   information. Detailed instructions on specific services and activities
   are covered in appropriate chapters throughout the manual.

   2.   Role of the Individual Employee. The National Weather Service has
   a closer daily association with the public and the media than any other
   governmental organization. Every employee who has an occasion to answer
   a telephone or reply to a letter is identified in the public mind as
   "the National Weather Service." Our organization, therefore, is each of
   us and all of us. This must be held as a paramount consideration in a
   discussion of public relations. Each member is a representative whose
   actions and responses in the public interest shape the image of the
   National Weather Service. Individual indiscretion in the performance of
   duty can bring embarrassment upon the entire National Weather Service.

   Even under the most severe weather and flood conditions, the public is
   not cognizant (nor should it be) of the extra workloads and pressures
   that National Weather Service staffs must endure. The tensions and
   anxieties that may build up within our offices must not find an escape
   in communications with the citizenry or with the media attempting to
   perform their assigned functions.

   Courtesy is expected from National Weather Service personnel. Patience
   may, at times, strain the psyche, but it strengthens the bond. The
   National Weather Service is charged with the responsibility of serving
   the public with efficiency and respect. Nothing else will do.

   Guidelines in the area of public information must, of necessity, be
   broad. Each of us is different. Personalities vary. The virtues of
   cooperation, tact, forbearance, and understanding are projected more
   naturally by some than by others. A problem situation can have a
   variety of solutions, each equally good. The one thing common to all is
   attitude, the desire to respond to the issue at hand with intelligence
   and maturity.

   The field station is the closest link to the public. Here the National
   Weather Service acquires its reputation, for good or bad. Most people
   know the National Weather Service only from the perspective of the
   office that serves them. The meteorologist-in-charge and their staffs
   are the important image-makers on the public frontier. They have the
   heaviest burdens toward satisfying the user.

   3.   The Media. The press, radio, and television demand, and merit,
   special attention since they are the direct pipeline to the public.
   Greatest productivity can be obtained if certain principles are
   observed.

       a.      Be fair. Any story initiated by the National Weather
   Service should be disseminated equally and without bias to every
   newspaper, radio, and television station within the area of
   responsibility. "Leaking" tips makes enemies.

       b.      Develop trust. A reporter initiating an "exclusive" story
   should be assisted as much as possible, but his project should be held
   in strict confidence until it has been presented publicly. The media
   understand and expect this.

       c.      Avoid "off-the-record" comment. Give all permissible
   information clearly and honestly, with full background assistance as
   needed, but confidential material that should be withheld pending
   clearance can be misinterpreted and published if allowed to seep out.

       d.      Solicit guidance. If undue pressure is brought to bear for
   information in a sensitive area, call upon the regional headquarters
   for assistance. The regional headquarters, if necessary, will turn to
   Washington for guidance.

       e.      React quickly. The media has deadlines and becomes
   impatient with long delays. Use the fastest facility to respond to
   requests.

       f.      Be patient. Remember that most reporters are merely laymen
   in the area of meteorology and require detailed explanation of weather
   features. A story frequently reflects the ability or inability of
   National Weather Service personnel to make themselves understood.

       g.      Be available. Radio or television stations may want
   on-the-spot live broadcasts, often as a general feature but especially
   during severe storms and floods when National Weather Service
   facilities seem strained to the breaking point. However, the public
   will expect your explanation of existing or predicted conditions.
   Newspapers also will be seeking out impromptu interviews, explanatory
   stories and up-to-the-minute developments. Do the best you can to
   cooperate.

       h.      Spread the job around. There is no reason why the MIC or
   guidance forecaster should assume the total burden of trying to satisfy
   the media. Other personnel should become familiar with the microphone
   and telephone. It is surprising how well they can do at broadcasting an
   impromptu message or explanation after a few attempts. Make sure,
   however, that the output from your office is consistent and current.

       i.      Let the teletype help. Although most reporters insist on
   speaking to some one at the National Weather Service during dangerous
   storms, they can be educated to rely on city loop teletype or NOAA
   Weather Wire messages for much of the background information provided
   it is prepared comprehensively and frequently. Too often, when manpower
   is limited, there may be a tendency to slight the teletype circuit when
   it is needed most.

       j.      Be alert. Too much may be expected of the National Weather
   Service. Meteorologists and hydrologists are expected to be good
   forecasters, good writers, good broadcasters, and good at whatever
   other duties they are compelled to perform. However, relationships with
   the media can be greatly enhanced if the MIC's and their assistants
   develop an awareness of the news importance of internal events beyond
   the scope of routine forecasts. Changes in forecasting, observational,
   and dissemination techniques could be of interest to the public and
   should be announced promptly when they are operational. The media
   appreciates an understanding of its needs. At the same time, we show
   that there is life and vitality in the National Weather Service.

       k.      Be generous with interviews. Most media representatives are
   friendly and responsive when you get to know them. Generally, they will
   react fairly and responsibly to National Weather Service problems and
   requests. They will even, on occasion, rally to your side in a tight
   situation. Do not judge them all by an isolated dissenter.

       l.      Set up a briefing area where facilities are available. A
   special media section, no matter how modest, within the National
   Weather Service offices generates a feeling of belonging that is
   important to the press and the National Weather Service alike. From our
   point of view, it concentrates attention during critical periods and
   several individual briefings can be reduced to one. In addition, it
   permits the construction of displays that lend clarity to a background
   dissertation. Properly operated, the briefing room becomes a focal
   point for dissemination, updating, interviews, photography, television
   and radio programming. This is one important way to conserve manpower
   and yet get maximum output.

       m.      Show restraint. Criticism of National Weather Service
   forecasts and procedures may be totally unwarranted, with callous
   disregard for the sensitivity of the dedicated human beings who make up
   our organization. We may be inclined to take offense at something
   printed or broadcast and angrily issue a reply. This seldom achieves
   the desired result. More often than not, it creates new irritations
   since the media is free to set its own rules in conflict. It must be
   recognized, however, that weakness also can be misinterpreted. A
   judgment must be made on what course of action will benefit the
   National Weather Service most while, at the same time, sustaining the
   morale and spirit of the aggrieved personnel. Forbearance is best. If
   an answer is indicated or requested, give it calmly with a lucid
   explanation of the facts. If there is the slightest doubt on how to
   proceed, check with regional headquarters. Actually, the defense
   against unjustified attack is the rapport that should be built up
   between the National Weather Service and the media. With mutual
   respect, there are fewer occasions when it is necessary to turn the
   other cheek.

       n.      Endure the joke. Like it or not, the weather will continue
   to be a subject of humor and the forecaster will continue to be the
   butt of wisecracks. Deep down, the public realizes its dependence upon
   the National Weather Service, but it cannot refrain from its little
   joke. This is a fact of life and something we have to live with. It is
   folly to try to rebut every columnist or comedian who endeavors to make
   a joke out of an unverified forecast or operational change. Think twice
   about firing off a letter to the editor. Protest may turn out to be
   nothing but defensive apology and some people think that is funny, too.

       o.      Stay within bounds. Media may try, innocently, to get you
   involved in controversy, especially where it concerns private
   meteorologists or other agencies engaged in overlapping endeavors. Stay
   clear. The dangers are obvious. Point out that the National Weather
   Service goes out of its way to cooperate with everybody.

       p.      Coordinate. Liaison with regional headquarters and with
   other MIC's on public information matters is the most effective way of
   avoiding contradictory or ill-timed releases.

       q.      Freedom of information. All National Weather Service
   personnel should be cognizant of the intent of Public Law 90-23.
   Reference to this Public Law can be found in NOAA Directives Manual
   Chapter 21-25. In essence, this insures to the public the availability
   of all files of Federal agencies with the exception of such material as
   is exempted by statute, executive order, litigation regulations and
   personal privacy limitations.

   4.   Written Reports. It is assumed that field personnel will maintain
   routinely a competent liaison with the public and the media. There will
   be circumstances, however, when misunderstandings will arise, causing
   unresolved dissatisfaction that could develop into angry, extensive,
   embarrassing protest. On the occasion of such misunderstandings, a
   written statement of the facts should be sent to the Regional Director,
   who will decide upon the course of action to be taken.

   * 5.    Information Requests. National Weather Service stations
   constantly receive requests for information on a wide range of
   weather-related subjects. Brochures and other material are available
   through the NOAA Office of Public Affairs (refer to current listings).
   An adequate supply of the most popular materials should be kept on hand
   for distribution as required to the media and the public.

   Certain requests cannot be satisfied at the local level and must be
   referred to NOAA Headquarters or to the Superintendent of Documents.
   For guidance, refer to NOAA Directives Manual Chapter 21-25.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [commerce.gif]
   U.S. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
                                                        National Oceanic
   and Atmospheric Administration
                                                           NATIONAL
   WEATHER SERVICE
                                                           Silver Spring,
   Md. 20910

   April 25, 1977
   Wx3/VMC

   To:    ALL NWS FIELD OFFICES

   FROM:    George P. Cressman
                   Director, National Weather Service

   SUBJECT:    New Instructions for Preparing Revised WS Form A-3, Page 2
   (April 1977), Station Information, Forecasts

   We've added several important service programs to the "Appendix B" for
   the next edition of the Operation of the National Weather Service. To
   do this, we had to revise WS Form A-3, page 2, and revise the
   instructions for preparing the form.

   The Central Logistic Supply Center will send 25 copies of the revised
   form to all field offices within the next 6 to 7 weeks. The complete
   stock of the old form should be destroyed immediately.

   Until a new Manual Chapter A-11 is issued, the attached instructions
   should be substituted for Section 6.2.3. "Instructions for Preparing WS
   Form A-3, page 2."

   All Weather Service field offices that provide any of the services
   listed on the WS Form A-3, page 2, must revise their forms. be sure to
   pay close attention to the instructions. Please send an original and
   one copy of the revised form to your Regional headquarters by June 10,
   so the can get the original to Headquarters by June 27, 1977.  I know
   that this is a short deadline, but we have to get the data in the
   computer and make some test runs in July on the revised "Appendix B."

   Your cooperation in helping us meet this time frame will be greatly
   appreciated.

   Attachments

   cc:
   All NWS Regional Headquarter
     __________________________________________________________________

   Place a check in the appropriate zone box to indicate where a change is
   made. Programs not involving a station should be left blank--do not
   enter zeros. See the attached WS Form A-3, page 2, as revised April
   1977.

   Block 05, Zone 01: Aviation

   FA    Enter the number of aviation area forecasts regularly scheduled
   each day.

   TWEB (Route)      Enter the total number of TWEB route forecasts
   regularly scheduled each day (e.g., 5 routes issued 3 times per day
   equal a total of 15).

   TWEB (Synopsis)      Enter the total number of synopses regularly
   scheduled each day. (Normally each WSFO prepares one synopsis per
   forecast period. One synopsis prepared 3 times per day equals a total
   of 3.)

   PATWAS      Enter the total number of originations scheduled per day.

   FT    Enter the total number of terminal forecasts regularly scheduled
   each day for Domestic Aviation.


   TAFS (International)      Enter the total number of terminal forecasts
   regularly scheduled each day for International Aviation.

   PWB      Enter "1" if the station provides Pilot Weather Briefings--in
   any form, by phone, etc.

   Block 05, Zone 02: Marine

   High-Seas (GreatLakes)      Enter the total number of high-seas or
   Great Lakes forecasts regularly scheduled each day (e.g., 4 forecasts
   prepared daily for one lake equal 4).

   Coastal/Near-Shore      Enter the total number of coastal or Near-Shore
   forecasts regularly scheduled each day (e.g., 4 forecasts prepared
   daily for one Near-Shore forecast area equal 4).

   Local      Enter the total number of local marine forecasts regularly
   scheduled each day.  (Include recreational boating on small lakes,
   rivers, etc.)

   Offshore      Enter the total number of offshore forecasts regularly
   scheduled each day.

   Ice      Enter "1" if station makes ice forecasts.


   Block 05, Zone 03: Other

   Agricultural      Enter the total number of agricultural forecasts
   regularly scheduled each day. (Consider such programs as Livestock,
   Danger Statements, limited agriculture in the Dakotas, etc.)

   Air Pollution      Enter "1" if the station has air pollution forecast
   responsibility.

   Forestry Weather      Enter the average number (use following codes) of
   forestry weather forecast packages issued per year (include mobile
   unit, rangeland fire, and nonagricultural land management forecasts).

   Code

                                   1 --   1 to 100 forecast packages
                                   10 --  101 to 1,000 forecast packages
                                   20 --  1,001 to 2,000 forecast packages
                                   30 --  2,001 to 3,000 forecast packages
                                   40 --  3,001 to 4,000 forecast packages
                                   50 --  Greater than 4,000

   Zone    Enter the total number of zone forecasts regularly scheduled
   each day. (Do not include the zone in which the station is located.)

   FPl      Enter the total number of state forecasts regularly scheduled
   each day. Enter the name and call letters of the station that takes
   over these responsibilities when this station is closed.


   Block 05, Zone 04: Hydrology

   Daily (River)      Enter the total number of points for which original*
   stage, flow, or velocity forecasts are prepared daily--include points
   in time of flooding. (Include only those points for which forecasts are
   made for 5 months or more of the year.)

   Flood Only (River)      Enter the total number of points for which
   original* forecasts are prepared as required during flood--include
   flash flood points.


   Block 05, Zone 05: Hydrology

   Headwater Statements      Enter the total number of points for which
   origi
