http://tech-net.sba.gov/index3.html

   This Script Checks for your Browser version This Script loads the
   images for the rollover

   Skip to the main content.
   To SBA Home Page
   TECH-Net Home Page
   What is Tech-Net
   How To Use Tech-Net
   Update Profiles
   Search Database
   Register
   Resources
   Technology Opportunities
   ACE-Net
   PRO-Net
      Send Comments



                       HOW TO USE THE TECH-Net SYSTEM?


   What is Tech-Net? Overview of the system.
   Search Database Provides access to the small businesses profiled on the
   system. The system can be searched by company name; state; city; zip
   code; ownership race and gender; principal investigator; keywords,
   phase 1 year, phase 2 year, research institute, etc. In addition to
   searching for technology partnerships, licensing and investment
   opportunities in Tech-Net, SBA's Pro-Net allows searches for small
   business procurement opportunities. Pro-Net is an electronic gateway of
   procurement information - for and about small businesses. It is a
   search engine for contracting officers, a marketing tool for small
   firms and a "link" to procurement opportunities for small businesses
   seeking federal, state and private contracts.
   Update Profiles
   This access point will be PASSWORD CONTROLLED. It is to be used only by
   businesses on the system to update their profiles. An assigned password
   must be used to gain access to all business profiles.
   Register Allows small business technology firms to add their company
   profile to the database. SBA uses a single source client data base for
   both Pro-Net and Tech-Net. Accordingly, a small business need only
   register on one system to be included in both.
   Resources Provides access to multiple electronic sources of technology
   assistance and resources for small high technology firms.
   Technology Opportunities Provides access to various agency technology
   solicitations and procurement opportunities.

                           *Last Modified: 7-21-00

                                | Text Only |
