http://fire.pppl.gov/eu_fusion_petition_6th.pdf

   Ms. N. FONTAINE, President of the European Parliament, Mr. T. ÖSTROS,
   President of the Council of Ministers for Research of the European
   Union, Mr. Ph. BUSQUIN, Member of the European Commission for Science,
   Research and Development, Mr. C. WESTENDORP Y CABEZA, Chairman of the
   ITRE Committee and Members of the ITRE Committee, Mr. T. WYNN, Chairman
   of the Committee on Budgets, European Parliament, The Members of the
   European Parliament, Mr. G. FRERICHS, President of the European
   Economic and Social Committee, Scientific Attachés to the Permanent
   Representations, April 30, 2001 Dear President, Commissioner, Chairman,
   Member of the European Parliament, Scientific Attaché, We are junior
   and senior scientists and engineers working for the European Fusion
   Programme. With this letter we express our dismay at the consequences
   of the proposed important reduction in the budget for Fusion Research
   in the 6th Framework Programme. We are deeply concerned that this
   reduction sends the wrong signal at a crucial moment for a decision on
   ITER*. A more supportive signal from the Commission and from European
   decision-makers is required. Growing evidence for climate changes
   world-wide, mainly caused by burning of fossil fuels, convinces us that
   there should be no delay in finding solutions to a global problem of
   which nobody knows the precise consequences. Moreover, fusion has the
   potential to help Europe achieve the necessary energy independence
   outlined in the Commission Green Paper "Towards a European strategy for
   the security of energy supply" [COM(2000) 769 final]. We therefore see
   a dedicated effort for the timely realisation of fusion energy as our
   obligation to Europe and the World as part of a broad effort to help
   preserve the environment and to enable the rising world population to
   benefit from a range of clean energy sources. Fusion has a major role
   to play in this endeavour as a safe, environmentally benign and
   practically inexhaustible electric energy source. We were encouraged by
   the discussions in the Informal Meeting of the European Research
   Council on the 19th of January 2001, underlining the necessity for
   beginning the construction of ITER during FP6, in Europe or elsewhere.
   In particular, in the paper [Document SEC(2001)385-5.03.2001] presented
   by Commissioner Busquin at the above mentioned meeting, the
   Commissioner had noted that a budget of 850 million Euro was needed for
   the option which included the start of the ITER project during FP6.
   However, to our great surprise, the recent proposal from the Commission
   reduces the fusion budget from the 850 million Euro deemed necessary by
   the Commissio ner to 700 million Euro, while maintaining a provision
   for ITER. Such a reduction is at odds with the intentions of the
   European Research Council. The construction of ITER is a necessary Next
   Step towards the realisation of the demonstration reactor (DEMO). Of
   equal importance is to guarantee the necessary European coordination
   within the framework of the European Research Area, a vital element for
   an activity as complex as fusion energy research, by supporting the
   existing European research activities needed for complementary physics
   and technology studies related to ITER and for the training of young
   scientists. Until now, the European Fusion Programme has been an
   example of highly successful European collaboration and integration,
   with the Commission playing the roles of catalyst and coordinator with
   vision. This has given Europe world leadership in Fusion Research. The
   continuing success of the scientific exploitation of JET (Joint
   European Torus) and of the ITER design activities is an additional
   proof that the European Research Area already exists in fusion. *
   International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor We are convinced that
   the progress made in Fusion Research in the last few years has provided
   the knowledge necessary to realise the Next Step. We hope and we have
   indications that, in addition to the Japanese and Russian resolve to go
   forward with ITER integrated in their national programmes, we will
   benefit from a continuing US scientific input. The European Fusion
   Programme is currently reorganising to carry out the ITER project. The
   additional constraints resulting from a reduction in the budget would
   seriously jeopardise the current plans to combine the efforts of the
   Associations in preparation for the Next Step. Part of these efforts
   are the collaborative experiments on JET in progress since 2000, with a
   European team involving all Associations. In conclusion, it is our firm
   hope that the initially estimated budget of 850 million Euro - which is
   the present budget corrected for inflation - will be adopted.
   Sufficient funding for a coordinated European involvement in ITER
   linked with European plasma physics and engineering research is the
   route for the future. We put our trust in you to provide Fusion
   Research and Development with the necessary resources to maintain the
   coherence and leadership of the European Fusion Programme in a domain
   of such importance for the future. Please find enclosed a list of more
   than 1450 signatures from staff of Fusion Institutions throughout
   Europe. Sincerely yours, Dr. Alain Bécoulet Dr. Richard Buttery Dr.
   Tony Donné Association Association Association "EURATOM-CEA"
   "EURATOM-UKAEA" "EURATOM-FOM" Cadarache, France Culham, United Kingdom
   Nieuwegein, The Netherlands Prof. Kyriakos Hizanidis Dr. Günter
   Janeschitz Dr. Otto Kardaun Association ITER-JCT Association
   "EURATOM-Hellenic Garching bei München, Germany "EURATOM-IPP" Republic"
   Garching bei Garching, Athens, Greece Germany Dr. Béla Kardon Dr.
   Günter Kast Dr. Philippe Lamalle Association Association EFDA
   CSU-Culham "EURATOM-HAS" "EURATOM-FZK" Culham, United Kingdom Budapest,
   Hungary Karlsrühe, Germany Prof. Mietek Lisak Dr. Alberto Loarte Prieto
   Dr. Günter Mank Association EFDA CSU-Garching Association "EURATOM-VR"
   Garching bei München, Germany "EURATOM-FZJ" Stockholm, Sweden Jülich,
   Germany Prof. Maria Manso Dr. Yves Martin Dr. Giuseppe Mazzitelli
   Association Association Association "EURATOM-IST" "EURATOM-Swiss
   "EURATOM-ENEA" Lisbon, Portugal Confederation" Frascati, Italy
   Lausanne, Switzerland Dr. Patrick McCarthy Dr. Poul Michelsen Dr. Jef
   Ongena Association Association Association "EURATOM-DCU" "EURATOM-Risø"
   "EURATOM-Belgian State" Cork, Ireland Roskilde, Denmark Brussels,
   Belgium Dr. Joaquín Sánchez Sanz Dr. Jan Stockel Dr. Tuomas Tala
   Association Association Association "EURATOM-CIEMAT"
   "EURATOM-IPP/Prague" "EURATOM-TEKES" Madrid, Spain Prague, Czech
   Republic Helsinki, Finland Contact address: Jef Ongena Kerkstraat 21
   B-9111 Belsele Prof. H.P. Winter Belgium Association Fax (32) (2) 735
   24 21 "EURATOM-OEAW" Vienna, Austria
