http://fire.pppl.gov/FESAC_FinalRpt.pdf

   OAK RIDGE NATIONAL LABORATORY MANAGED BY LOCKHEED MARTIN ENERGY
   RESEARCH CORPORATION PHONE: (423) 574-5510 FOR THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF
   ENERGY FAX: (423) 576-6118 INTERNET: oji@ornl.gov POST OFFICE BOX 2008
   OAK RIDGE, TN 37831-6248 September 16, 1999 Dr. Martha A. Krebs
   Director, Office of Science U.S. Department of Energy 1000 Independence
   Avenue, S.W. Washington, D.C. 20858 Dear Dr. Krebs: The FESAC is
   pleased to be able to complete its response to your charge of October
   9, 1998, in regard to ... "leading a community assessment of the
   restructured program thus far, including recommendations for further
   redirection given projected flat budgets for fusion. With this
   assessment as background, I would like your recommendations as to the
   proof-of-principle experiments now under review, as well as your
   recommendations regarding the balance of the program between tokamak
   and non-tokamak physics, and between magnetic and inertial fusion
   energy. Working with the Office of Fusion Energy Sciences (OFES),
   please develop goals and metrics to use in making your recommendations.
   I would also welcome any other recommendations on program content,
   emphasis, or balance." In discussion with Dr. N. A. Davies, Director of
   OFES, it was agreed to frame the sub-charges as: * Recommend a balance
   between MFE and IFE; * Recommend priorities in the MFE program; *
   Recommend priorities in the IFE program; and * Recommend a course of
   action for the three proof-of-principle (POP) proposals. During the
   past year there has been a considerable amount of activity which helped
   us reach our conclusions. The FESAC has visited a number of fusion
   sites and has heard extensive presentations on the program. A FESAC
   Panel (1999-1) worked with the fusion community to prepare an
   Opportunities Document for the fusion energy sciences, covering
   magnetic and inertial fusion energy, plasma science and technology and
   near term applications of developments in the program. A second Panel
   (1999-2) prepared a draft of a document that discusses goals and
   metrics for the program, and an approach to assessing program elements.
   Aspects of this work were used in preparing our recommendations. Most
   importantly, the fusion community held a meeting at Snowmass in July to
   discuss the entire fusion energy sciences program. Many of the FESAC
   members were able to attend this meeting, and most members attended the
   summary sessions. Immediately following the Snowmass meeting, the FESAC
   held a meeting to refine its approach to recommending priorities for
   the future program. A third FESAC Panel (1999-3) was constituted to
   make draft program recommendations. Almost all of the members of FESAC
   were able to serve on this panel, plus a balance of experts, selected
   from the fusion community, to insure adequate subject coverage. The
   group was divided among Dr. Martha Krebs Page 2 September 16, 1999 four
   sub-panels to provide the draft responses, respectively, to the four
   sub-charges. It was agreed in the previous FESAC meeting to iterate the
   answers from the sub-panels to reach an integrated conclusion, i.e.,
   the discussion of the POPs fed into the MFE deliberations, and the MFE
   and IFE sub-panels provided input to the MFE/IFE sub-panel. Members of
   the fusion community met with the SEAB and NRC panels to discuss the
   program. I met with them to explain the process being undertaken by
   FESAC. The output from the recent SEAB Panel was very valuable in
   providing guidance on the balance between the MFE and IFE programs. The
   FESAC looks forward to receiving the NRC report on the scientific
   quality of the program. The Panel (1999-3) met for four days in
   Knoxville, August 18 through 21, and prepared a draft report. The
   report was placed on the Virtual Laboratory for Technology and PPPL
   web-sites on August 25 so that public comment could be obtained. This
   input and public comment at the FESAC September 8 meeting were taken
   into account in producing the final report which is attached. FESAC
   concluded that the Fusion Energy Sciences Program has exciting
   opportunities to move forward in both the MFE and IFE approaches. In
   both cases major activities not funded by OFES are in place to provide
   leverage: the international magnetic fusion program in the case of MFE
   and the DP-funded inertial fusion program in the case of IFE. We concur
   with the recent SEAB panel that the overall funding for fusion energy
   is now inadequate to take advantage of these special opportunities and
   we urge the Department to move towards our $300M budget case in a
   timely manner. Our detailed recommendations for this and lower budget
   level are in the attached report. Sincerely, John Sheffield Chair, on
   behalf of the Fusion Energy Sciences Advisory Committee JS:djb
   Attachment cc: FESAC Dr. N. A. Davies, DOE-OFES Dr. A. Opdenaker,
   DOE-OFES Fusion Energy Sciences Advisory Committee - Members. Dr.
   Charles Baker, Director, DOE Fusion Energy Sciences Program's Virtual
   Laboratory for Technology, Adjunct Professor, Mechanical & Aerospace
   Engineering, University ofCalifornia at San Diego. Dr. Richard J.
   Briggs, Senior Program Manager, Science Applications International
   Corporation. Prof. Robert W. Conn, Dean, Jacob's School of Engineering,
   Zable Professor of Engineering, University of California at San Diego.
   Dr. Jill Dahlburg, Head, Laser Plasma Hydrodynamics Section Laser
   Plasma Branch, Plasma Physics Division Naval Research Laboratory. Dr.
   Katharine B. Gebbie, Director of the Physics Division, National
   Institute of Standards and Technology. Prof. Richard D. Hazeltine,
   Professor of Physics, Director, Institute for Fusion Studies,
   University of Texas at Austin. Prof. Joseph A. Johnson, III,
   Distinguished Professor of Science and Engineering,, Director,
   Laboratory for Modern Fluid Physics, Florida A&M University. Dr. John
   Lindl, ICF/NIF Scientific Director, Lawrence Livermore National
   Laboratory. Prof. Gerald A. Navratil, Chairman, Department of Applied
   Physics and Applied Mathematics, Columbia University. Dr. Cynthia K.
   Phillips, Head, Wave Plasma Interactions Science Focus Group Princeton
   Plasma Physics Laboratory. Prof. Miklos Porkolab, Chair, Division of
   Plasma Physics, American Physical Society, Professor of Physics,
   Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Prof. Marshall N. Rosenbluth,
   Professor of Physics, Emeritus, University of California at San Diego
   Dr. Ned R. Sauthoff,, IEEE-USA Vice-President, Technology Policy
   Activities, Head, Off-Site Research Department, Princeton Plasma
   Physics Laboratory. Dr. John Sheffield, Director for Energy Technology
   Programs, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Director, Joint Institute for
   Energy and the Environment, University of Tennessee. Dr. Tony S.
   Taylor, Director, Experimental Science Division Fusion Group, General
   Atomics. Dr. Clement Wong, Chair, Fusion Energy Division, American
   Nuclear Society, Principal Engineer Fusion Group, General Atomics.
   9/13/99 Report of the FESAC Panel on Priorities and Balance Meeting in
   Knoxville, Tennessee 18-21 August, 1999 1 9/13/99 REPORT OUTLINE Page S
   u m m a r y . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . 3 1.0 Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . 6 2.0 MFE Balance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . 7 3.0 P o P B a l a n c e . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . 1 4 4.0 IFE Balance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . 1 7 5.0 MFE and IFE Balance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 1
   Appendices A. FESAC Priorities and Balance Panel Membership . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 7 2 9/13/99 Summary This report presents
   the results and recommendations of the deliberations of the FESAC Panel
   on Priorities and Balance for the DOE's Fusion Energy Sciences Program.
   The panel consisted of 36 people drawn from 23 different institutions
   which represented the spectrum of scientific and engineering
   disciplines involved in fusion energy research, including all key
   elements of magnetic fusion energy (MFE) and inertial fusion energy
   (IFE). The panel conducted most of its deliberations by working in four
   subpanels focused on the principal features of DOE's charge to FESAC on
   program balance and priorities: * Balance between MFE and IFE. *
   Balance within MFE. * Balance within IFE. * Proof-of Principle (PoP)
   Priorities. The fundamental underpinnings of the Panel's efforts follow
   from recent reviews of the U.S. fusion program by PCAST, SEAB and FEAC
   which had the common themes that the U.S. should pursue fusion energy
   aggressively, that the recent restructuring of the MFE program is
   recommended and/or endorsed, that current funding is subcritical and
   that it is premature to narrow among the energy options offered by MFE
   and IFE. The Panel has identified the achievement of a more integrated
   national program in MFE and IFE as a major programmatic and policy goal
   in the years ahead. Two areas of research common to both MFE and IFE
   deserve special encouragement in this regard: theory, including
   terascale computing, and selected areas of chamber technology.
   Establishing an optimal balance between IFE and MFE in a more
   integrated national program in fusion energy sciences should be based
   on the following guiding principles: (1) The MFE and IFE programs
   should be consistent with their respective time frames, set in part by
   * MFE opportunities to participate in major international experiments;
   * IFE opportunities to leverage the DP funded ICF program. (2) Specific
   elements of science and technology critical for evaluating the ultimate
   energy potential of IFE and MFE, such as interaction of the plasma with
   chamber walls, should be brought to comparable levels of maturity. (3)
   The dramatic advances in the predictive power of modern theory and
   simulation make these tools essential elements of a cost-effective
   program. (4) A common peer-review process for MFE, IFE, and
   cross-cutting activities should be implemented wherever possible. (5)
   Cross-cutting science and technology, with application to both MFE and
   IFE, deserves special encouragement. (6) Attracting and maintaining a
   talent pool of creative young scientists in the combined program, for
   example through research with broad scientific or technological
   implications, is crucial to fusion progress. To consider the question
   of the balance between IFE and MFE, the Panel considered three budget
   cases with a total annual funding of $300M, $260M and $222M. In order
   to position the U.S. to 3 9/13/99 execute the combined MFE/IFE research
   program within the timeframes set by the worldwide MFE program and
   DOE's Defense Program (DP)-funded inertial confinement program, the
   Panel strongly endorses a funding level of $300M for the fusion energy
   sciences program. The Panel further recommends that the funding
   allocation at this level be $250M for MFE and $50M for IFE. At an
   annual funding level of $260M, it will not be possible to have a
   combined MFE/IFE program consistent with the timeframes noted above,
   but it will be possible to augment modestly the four principal MFE
   thrust areas described in this report and develop at least one IFE
   driver (heavy-ions) for an integrated research experiment (IRE) and
   associated chamber technology. The recommended allocation is $230M for
   MFE and $30M for IFE. At a FY2000 funding level of $222M, both MFE and
   IFE are subcritical for meeting program objectives. In order to develop
   critical aspects of at least one IFE driver (e.g. heavy-ion beam
   propagation in a target chamber), the Panel recommends an FY2000
   funding allocation of $207M for MFE and $15M for IFE. Level or
   decreased funding of the MFE program would seriously delay new
   proof-of-principle initiatives, significantly curtail technology
   activities, and prevent full utilization of existing national research
   facilities. The MFE research plan is motivated by three considerations
   central to the restructured fusion energy sciences program: the
   continued development of fundamental scientific understanding and
   innovative technologies, the advancement of innovative magnetic
   concepts, and the time frame of the international fusion effort. In the
   five-year time frame, the international fusion community will be making
   construction decisions for major next-step experiments. The MFE plan
   assures that the U.S. remains actively engaged with the international
   community and is able to participate in a meaningful way with the
   worldwide development of magnetic fusion energy. Also on approximately
   a five-year time scale, our understanding of some of the new magnetic
   fusion concepts can be sufficiently advanced to warrant consideration
   for study at the larger scales which more closely resemble fusion
   conditions. With regard to overall balance and priorities within the
   MFE program, the Panel believes that at present the program is
   reasonably well-balanced given the available resources and the ongoing
   restructuring of the program since 1996. The Panel recommends funding
   increases (see Section 5 for illustrative numbers) to accomplish the
   following: (1) Strengthen theory and computation as very cost effective
   means to advance fusion and plasma science, taking advantage of
   advances in computation science and technology. Strengthen activities
   in general plasma science and encourage research on near-term
   applications of plasma science and technology. (2) Pursue an aggressive
   portfolio of confinement concepts through increased effort in the Proof
   of Principle area, and through strengthening of the Concept Exploration
   program. (3) Focus the moderate-pulse advanced tokamak program,
   including U.S. collaboration on leading international facilities, and
   to a lesser degree the spherical torus program, towards a 5-year
   assessment point; and prepare for participation in a burning plasma
   experiment. (4) Revitalize the technology program to provide for
   continued innovation in this area because of its overall importance to
   the success of fusion science and fusion energy and applications.
   Utilize systems studies to identify attractive fusion energy concepts
   and affordable development paths. Approximately two-thirds of
   additional resources (relative to the Administration's request for
   FY2000) should be divided about equally between recommendations (2) and
   (3) above. However, it is high priority to increase support for (1) and
   (4), with a somewhat greater emphasis on (4), especially under small
   budget increases. In the IFE program, the two central objectives are
   (1) to advance the understanding of high-energy density plasmas and (2)
   to develop an attractive rep-rated IFE power system. Since the DP 4
   9/13/99 program addresses critical target issues in single-shot
   experiments, the OFES program focuses on high-pulse rate, efficient and
   affordable drivers and associated fusion chamber and target technology.
   The IFE research plan is motivated to enable the initiation of an
   Integrated Research Experiment (IRE) program which could be optimized
   and iterated as results are obtained on NIF and which is consistent
   with the expected completion of the direct-drive target physics
   programs on Omega and Nike, and the initiation of ignition experiments
   on NIF. One essential feature of the IFE program is an emphasis on
   chamber technology, including beam propagation. The IFE plan aims at
   making an IRE decision on a five-year time frame, and permits an
   effective interaction and leverage between a balanced IFE research
   program and the NIF program in target physics. The recommended IFE
   program of $50M per year ($300M case) would prepare three driver
   candidates for an IRE stage, develop the necessary chamber and target
   technology and pursue some limited efforts at the concept exploration
   level. At a funding of $30M ($260M case), the emphasis would be on the
   heavy-ion driver option and associated chamber/target technology, while
   maintaining reduced efforts on advanced laser options. The Reversed
   Field Pinch (RFP), Compact Stellarator (CS) and Magnetized Target
   Fusion (MTF) concepts were reviewed by an OFES technical review panel
   last year. Its conclusion was that each concept had a sufficient
   technical base to be considered for designation as a Proof of Principle
   (PoP) program. The task of the FESAC PoP subpanel was to determine the
   actual readiness of each concept for PoP designation and to make
   recommendations concerning implementation or additional work. The
   conclusions of the subpanel are as follows: (1) The RFP is ready for
   PoP designation but a more focused sequential approach should be
   implemented. The modified budget levels generated in response to the
   original review are viewed as appropriate. Specifically, this calls for
   a budget increment of $2M in FY2000 and $3.5M in FY2001. (2) The CS is
   not ready at this time for PoP designation because of one important
   technical concern about the NCSX. The subpanel believes that this
   concern will likely be addressed in the near future. The subpanel also
   believes that in the long run the NCSX promises a high probability of
   success and that a FESAC subpanel participate in the Conceptual Design
   Review (CDR) of the NCSX project to complete the evaluation of
   readiness to proceed as an approved PoP program. The subpanel further
   recommends that the design effort and supporting theory and modeling on
   NCSX be adequately funded to permit expeditious completion of an
   optimized design and a successful CDR. This is expected to entail an
   increment of $1M in FY2000 and $1.5M in FY2001. (3) The MTF is not
   ready at this time for PoP designation. There are a number of important
   technical issues that must be resolved. The subpanel recommends a
   three-year continuation of the MTF concept exploration program at
   approximately the present level of effort to produce and translate the
   required target plasma for the experiment. 5 9/13/99 1.0 Introduction
   This report has been prepared by a Panel of the U.S. Department of
   Energy's (DOE) Fusion Energy Sciences Advisory Committee (FESAC). The
   Panel was established by the FESAC Chair, Dr. John Sheffield, to
   respond in part to a charge issued on October 9, 1998, by Dr. Martha
   Krebs to lead a community assessment of the restructured U.S. program.
   The results of the deliberations of the Knoxville Panel was considered
   formally by FESAC at its meeting in Washington, D.C. on September 8-9,
   1999. FESAC and its panels have undertaken a year-long process to
   identify the opportunities and requirements of a fusion energy science
   program; to identify goals, metrics and decision criteria; to consider
   issues of program balance; and to make recommendations on program
   content, emphasis and balance. This response has been prepared by
   members of FESAC, a sequence of three FESAC panels, and it includes
   input from a summer meeting of representatives of the entire fusion
   community. A number of fusion sites were visited and presentations were
   heard on the entire fusion program. Over the 11 month period, various
   supporting documents were used including the Opportunities Document
   (prepared by FESAC) and input from SEAB and NRC panels. The process
   culminated with a four-day meeting in Knoxville. Dr. Sheffield asked
   Dr. Charles Baker (UCSD and FESAC Member) to chair the Knoxville Panel,
   which is composed of 36 people from 23 different institutions (see
   Appendix A). The Panel is large enough to provide a broad
   representation of the fusion community, but small enough to carry out
   its work effectively. The Panel conducted most of its work by breaking
   into four groups to deal with the principal issues of its charge:
   balance between magnetic fusion energy (MFE) and inertial fusion energy
   (IFE), balance within MFE, balance within IFE, and recommendations on
   proposed proof-of-principle programs. The remainder of this report is
   organized by these four topics. In addressing the relative balance and
   priorities, the Panel reaffirms the national custodial responsibility
   of OFES for the health and vitality of the discipline of plasma
   science. The well- established value of plasma science for near-term
   technological spin-offs is also noted by the Panel. With regard to
   fusion, the Panel endorses and takes as a starting point the following
   findings and recommendations by the 1999 SEAB Fusion Task Force: *
   "OFES should be expected to use its program to leverage activities
   undertaken elsewhere (in the world and in DOE Defense Programs) to
   assure effective collaboration and coordination and to establish world
   leadership in selected niche areas." * "It should not be anticipated
   that the restructured MFE program will be fully successful in all of
   its energy missions  simultaneously pursuing new concepts, supporting
   tokamak experimentation, and shepherding plasma science  unless some
   increment in funding is forthcoming." * "Given the large DP (DOE
   Defense Programs) program in inertial fusion, only a modest increase in
   the OFES budget is needed to support the IFE activities that should be
   funded by the OFES program -- endeavors which address issues of
   significance to the energy objective and which are not supported by
   DP." * "Since the present funding is barely adequate to sustain the
   restructured MFE program, and since OFES is the sole steward for MFE,
   any significant increase in IFE funding within OFES should come from an
   increment to the present budget." * "Moreover, DP should dedicate funds
   to dual-purpose activities, consistent with DP's mission statement,
   that exploit the synergy between the defense work and IFE science. For
   example, DP might appropriately take the lead in the development of
   high-average-power lasers because of DP's very significant involvement
   and accomplishments in the laser field." 6 9/13/99 2.0 MFE Balance 2.1
   Overview The mission of the Office of Fusion Energy Sciences (OFES)
   program is "Advance plasma science, fusion science and fusion
   technology -- the knowledge base needed for an economically and
   environmentally attractive fusion energy source." In Magnetic Fusion
   Energy (MFE) research, magnetic fields are utilized to contain a plasma
   while it is heated to the temperatures and densities needed for a
   self-sustaining fusion "burn," similar to what occurs in the core of
   the Sun. An MFE power plant would consist of five major components
   surrounding the magnetically- confined fusion plasma core, including
   (i) a magnetic coil set for generating and control of the confining
   magnetic field; (ii) plasma fueling, heating and current drive systems;
   (iii) a first wall and blanket system for energy recovery and tritium
   fuel breeding; (iv) power and particle exhaust/recovery system; and (v)
   a system for converting the fusion-generated energy into electricity.
   The long-term goal of the MFE program is an optimized magnetic
   configuration as the basis for a demonstration power plant (Demo). A
   coordinated effort advancing the necessary science and technology
   across a broad front is needed to accomplish this goal. Because of the
   range of scientific ideas and plasma confinement configurations, the
   MFE approach to fusion energy is carried out through a "Portfolio
   Approach," as described in detail in the FESAC report on "Opportunities
   in the Fusion Energy Sciences Program". In that FESAC document, the
   portfolio elements are grouped into "Stages of Development" in a
   "Roadmap" for fusion energy development that is common for all fusion
   approaches. To help guide program decisions on the key science and
   technology issues which must be addressed among the magnetic
   configurations, an extensive set of technical and scientific metrics
   was prepared by the fusion community at the 1999 Fusion Summer Study.
   These define targets which must be met for the various configurations,
   in order for their development to continue. In addition, an extensive
   set of power plant design studies has been carried out which identify
   the principal research and development needs for the different
   configurations. The large international MFE program, over a billion
   dollars per year, provides important opportunities to US researchers.
   The portfolio of US investments is chosen to benefit maximally from the
   international effort, by complementing those efforts. By the same
   token, the major foreign facilities provide important opportunities for
   US MFE researchers to perform experiments, collaboratively, which are
   not possible on domestic facilities. The goals, balance considerations
   and recommendations provided in this report have been formulated to
   take the above aspects into account. 2.2 Goals The Panel has developed
   the following four MFE goals or "thrusts" as a way of implementing the
   existing higher-level goals of the OFES program. (1) Advance
   fundamental understanding of plasma, the fourth state of matter, and
   enhance predictive capabilities, through comparison of well-diagnosed
   experiments, theory and simulation. 7 9/13/99 (2) Resolve outstanding
   scientific issues and establish reduced-cost paths to more attractive
   fusion energy systems, by investigating a broad range of innovative
   magnetic confinement configurations. (3) Advance understanding and
   innovation in high-performance plasmas, optimizing for projected
   power-plant requirements; and participate in a burning plasma
   experiment. (4) Develop enabling technologies to advance fusion
   science; pursue innovative technologies and materials to improve the
   vision for fusion energy; and apply systems analysis to optimize fusion
   development. Detailed near-term, mid-term and long term objectives for
   each of these goals are provided in Table 1. The goals and objectives
   assume the resources associated with a funding level of $250M/yr for
   MFE. 2.3 Balance Considerations The MFE program has undergone
   considerable restructuring and consolidation over the past few years
   brought about, in part, by severe budget reductions. The subpanel
   believes that the present MFE program is currently reasonably well
   balanced among its programmatic subelements. However, very attractive
   opportunities exist in four key thrust areas, discussed below, to make
   accelerated progress in a highly cost-effective manner. The MFE program
   properly emphasizes steady-state, externally-controlled configurations,
   such as the advanced tokamak and the spherical torus. To maintain a
   proper balance, care must be taken to also maintain an emphasis on
   pulsed and/or self-organized concepts. A significant assessment point
   will occur in roughly five years, when a combination of international
   opportunities are expected, and understanding of both the more
   developed configurations and those at lesser levels of development will
   have advanced to the point where decisions will be warranted. This
   5-year program assessment should consider both the future evolution of
   domestic facilities and U.S. participation in international
   collaborations. 2.4 Recommendations While the present MFE program is
   reasonably well balanced, the restructuring is not yet complete, and
   the restructured program can be significantly strengthened with
   moderate budget growth. Under the assumption of such budget growth in
   the near-term, the following specific enhancements to the MFE program
   are recommended: (1) Strengthen theory and computation as very cost
   effective means to advance fusion and plasma science, taking advantage
   of advances in computation science and technology. Strengthen
   activities in general plasma science and encourage research on
   near-term applications of plasma science and technology. Additional
   investments will be made in computational modeling and basic plasma
   science. These will allow critical evaluation of the full range of
   plasma configurations and performance, strengthening their integration.
   Increased resources in basic plasma science will support the education
   of the next generation of scientists and engineers. (2) Pursue an
   aggressive portfolio of confinement concepts through increased effort
   in the Proof of Principle area, and through strengthening of the
   Concept Exploration program. 8 9/13/99 Additional resources in the
   Proof of Principal (PoP) programs will enable plasma diagnosis at a
   level approaching that of present tokamaks, and will initiate studies
   of alternate confinement configurations at this PoP level. Resources
   will be directed to strengthening a few critically underfunded Concept
   Exploration programs to allow their timely execution. (3) Focus the
   moderate-pulse advanced tokamak program, including U.S. collaboration
   on leading international facilities, and to a lesser degree the
   spherical torus program, towards a 5-year assessment point; and prepare
   for participation in a burning plasma experiment. Additional resources
   will be used to expedite evaluation of the viability and attractiveness
   of the advanced tokamak and spherical torus configurations at
   intermediate pulse lengths. These optimization experiments will
   position the US program to influence, and participate in, potential
   burning plasma experiments. (4) Revitalize the technology program to
   provide for continued innovation in this area because of its overall
   importance to the success of fusion science and fusion energy and
   applications. Utilize systems studies to identify attractive fusion
   energy concepts and affordable development paths. Additional resources
   would be used to enhance development of novel chamber wall concepts and
   extend safety analyses to increase the attractiveness of fusion
   systems. Systems analysis and design studies will provide guidance for
   future fusion development options. Plasma technology support will
   enhance performance of current experiments. Final tests of new,
   advanced magnet systems will reap the benefits of past capital
   investments. Approximately two-thirds of additional resources relative
   to the Administration's proposed FY2000 budget should be divided about
   equally between support for goals (2) and (3). However it is also high
   priority to increase support for achieving goals (1) and (4), with
   somewhat greater emphasis on (4), especially under small budget
   increases. 9 9/13/99 Table 1: Goals and Near-Term/Long-Term Objectives
   for MFE. Goal 5 Years 10 Years 15 Years 1. Advance Turbulence and
   Develop fully Develop a fully validated fundamental transport: Advance
   integrated capability for comprehensive simulation understanding of
   understanding of turbulent predicting the capability applicable to the
   plasma, the fourth transport to the level where performance of broad
   range state of matter, and theoretical predictions are externally
   -controlled of magnetic confinement enhance predictive viewed as more
   reliable than systems including configurations. capabilities, through
   empirical scaling in the best turbulent transport, Advance the
   forefront of comparison understood systems. macroscopic stability,
   non-fusion plasma science of well-diagnosed Macroscopic stability: wave
   particle physics and technology experiments, theory Develop detailed
   predictive and multi-phase across a broad frontier, and simulation
   capability for macroscopic interfaces. synergistically with the
   stability, including resistive Develop qualitative development of
   fusion and kinetic effects. predictive capability for science.
   Wave-particle transport and stability interactions: Develop in
   self-organized predictive capability for systems. plasma heating, flow
   and Advance the forefront current drive, as well as of non fusion
   plasma energetic particle driven science and technology instabilities,
   in power-plant across a broad frontier, relevant regimes.
   synergistically with the Multi-phase interfaces: development of fusion
   Advance the capability to science. predict detailed multi-phase
   plasma-wall interfaces at very high power- and particle- fluxes.
   Advance the forefront of non-fusion plasma science: (e.g., laboratory
   plasma physics, space and plasma astrophysics) and plasma technology
   (e.g., plasma aided environmental remediation, plasma thrusters, plasma
   etching) across a broad frontier, synergistically with the development
   of fusion science. 10 9/13/99 Goal 5 Years 10 Years 15 Years 2. Resolve
   Make preliminary Assess the Assess the outstanding scientific
   determination of the attractiveness of attractiveness of one or issues
   and establish attractiveness of the Spherical extrapolable, long-pulse
   more of the previously reduced-cost Torus, by assessing high-beta
   operation of the investigated configurations paths to more stability,
   confinement, self- Spherical Torus for at the extended performance
   attractive consistent high-bootstrap pulse lengths >> level. fusion
   energy systems operation, and acceptable current penetration time Make
   preliminary by investigating a divertor heat flux, for pulse scales.
   determination of the broad range of lengths >> energy Complete
   attractiveness of further innovative magnetic confinement times.
   determination of the configurations. confinement Begin determination of
   attractiveness of the Resolve key issues for configurations. the
   attractiveness of the Reversed-Field an extended spectrum of
   Reversed-Field Pinch by Pinch by investigating configurations at the
   assessing self-consistent high-beta stability, exploratory level.
   confinement and plasma sustainment and current sustainment. plasma-wall
   interaction. Determine the Determine performance of a large
   attractiveness of a Stellarator in the areas of Compact Stellarator by
   confinement, stability, assessing resistance to sustainment and
   divertor disruption at high beta physics through international without
   instability collaboration. feedback control or Resolve key issues for a
   significant current broad spectrum of drive, assessing configurations
   at the confinement at high exploratory level. temperature, and
   investigating 3-D divertor operation. Make preliminary determination of
   the attractiveness of further configurations, as appropriate. Resolve
   key issues for an extended spectrum of configurations at the
   exploratory level. 11 9/13/99 Goal 5 Years 10 Years 15 Years 3. Advance
   Assess profile control Assess the Demonstrate high-gain understanding
   and methods for efficient current attractiveness of burning plasma
   operation innovation in high- sustainment and extrapolable, long-pulse
   in a plasma regime relevant performance plasmas, confinement
   enhancement in operation of the to the practical production optimizing
   for the Advanced Tokamak, Advanced Tokamak for of fusion power.
   projected power-plant consistent with efficient pulse lengths >>
   requirements; and divertor operation, pulse current penetration time
   participate in a lengths >> energy scales. burning plasma confinement
   times. Assess potential of experiment. Develop and assess high-
   Spherical Torus as a beta instability feedback basis for burning
   control methods and plasma studies and/or disruption fusion-nuclear
   control/amelioration in the component testing. Advanced Tokamak, for
   pulse Participate in an lengths >> energy international confinement
   times. collaboration to Investigate alpha particle construct a
   high-gain and advanced tokamak burning plasma physics in a low-gain
   experiment. burning plasma experiment, through international
   collaboration. 12 9/13/99 Goal 5 Years 10 Years 15 Years 4. Develop
   enabling Develop enabling Continue to Test attractive technologies to
   technologies to support develop required materials and advance fusion
   the goals of the scientific enabling technologies. technologies in a
   realistic science; pursue program outlined above, Resolve key fusion
   environment. innovative including advanced methods feasibility issues
   Participate in the technologies for plasma measurements, for new and
   improved operations of an and materials to heating, current drive, flow
   materials and international fusion test improve the vision control, and
   fueling. technologies by testing facility. for fusion energy; and
   Perform a range of and computation. apply systems system and design
   analysis to optimize studies to support the goals fusion development.
   of the scientific program. Demonstrate the feasibility of innovative
   plasma chamber technologies for MFE (e.g., ability to handle increased
   power density, reduce waste volume, improve reliability and breed
   adequate tritium.) Develop innovative materials and fabrication methods
   to improve performance, enhance safety, and reduce overall fusion
   system costs to permit fusion to reach its full potential. Assess the
   role of fusion energy in the context of all energy systems. Assess
   facility needs for fusion nuclear materials/components testing,
   including opportunities for international collaborations. Study
   potential improvements in magnet technology (e.g., fabrication
   techniques and/or higher temperature superconductors) which could lead
   to significant reductions in the cost of fusion systems. 13 9/13/99 3.0
   PoP Balance 3.1 Overview The Reversed Field Pinch (RFP), Compact
   Stellarator (CS) and Magnetized Target Fusion (MTF) concepts were
   reviewed by an OFES technical review panel last year. Its conclusion
   was that each concept had a sufficient technical base to be considered
   for designation as a PoP program. The task of the FESAC PoP subpanel is
   to determine the actual readiness of each concept for PoP designation
   and to make recommendations concerning implementation or additional
   work. The decision concerning PoP designation was based in part on the
   criteria as described in the "Draft FESAC Metrics Report". The specific
   criteria used are given in the next section. The subpanel set very high
   standards for designation as a PoP, requiring a maximal use of existing
   data, theory and computational modeling, and reactor studies to
   establish the case. In practice, this translated into considerably more
   theoretical modeling and reactor studies than required five to ten
   years ago. The balance between plasma science and reactor vision
   remains weighted towards the science. Another issue faced by the
   subpanel was the rather disparate nature of the three PoP proposals
   with regard to cost and schedule. The CS program requests a new primary
   facility in the $45M range and a long 7 10 year commitment. Approval
   implies a significant impact on the overall OFES budget for a
   substantial period of time with quantum leaps of funding at various
   stages of the program. The MTF and RFP proposals are heavily leveraged,
   one on defense spending and the other on the upgrade of an operating
   facility. Thus the funding requests are much smaller. Furthermore, the
   nature of the RFP and MTF proposals is such that the completion of the
   PoP program can be achieved in a gradual, serial fashion; that is,
   investment in the central PoP facility occurs more as a continuum than
   as a quantum step. These issues were an important consideration in the
   evaluation of the cost benefit metric. The conclusions of the subpanel
   are as follows: (1) The RFP is ready for PoP designation but a more
   focused sequential approach should be implemented. (2) The CS is not
   ready at this time for PoP designation because of one important
   technical concern about the NCSX. The subpanel believes that this
   concern will likely be addressed in the near future. The subpanel also
   believes that in the long run the NCSX promises a high probability of
   achieving success. (3) The MTF is not ready at this time for PoP
   designation. There are a number of important technical issues that must
   be resolved. The subpanel recommends a three year program at a reduced
   budget level (from that requested) to resolve these issues. 3.2
   Evaluation Criteria The following criteria were applied in the
   subpanel's evaluation of the PoP Proposals: (1) Science Benefit-Will
   the proposed program advance plasma/fusion science? (2) Concept
   Readiness-Is the level of information supporting the proposal
   sufficient to justify moving forward to the PoP designation? 14 9/13/99
   (3) Issue Resolution-Will the proposed program resolve the key issues
   required for a next stage decision? (4) Leading Edge-Is the proposed
   program at the leading edge in the context of fusion research? (5)
   International Perspective-Does the proposed program benefit from and
   contribute to the international effort for the concept? (6) Energy
   Vision-What is the attractiveness of the energy vision for the proposed
   concept? (7) Cost/Benefit-Are the likely scientific and programmatic
   gains commensurate with the costs? 3.3 RFP Assessment The subpanel
   unanimously recommends that the RFP program be raised to PoP
   designation. The proposal identified five main RFP issues. These issues
   are confinement, current drive, beta limits, stabilization of resistive
   wall modes and power/particle handling. The subpanel agrees with the
   proposal and the previous technical review that these are indeed the
   main issues and that the full RFP program as envisioned can address
   them. As proposed, MST will address the first three issues and other
   program components will address the other two. The RFP proposal was
   ranked high in the categories of scientific interest, readiness, issue
   resolution and international leadership. The subpanel also agrees with
   the previous technical review that the initial goals of the program
   were somewhat ambitious and the program should therefore focus on the
   scientific issues sequentially. The modified budget levels generated in
   response to the original review are viewed as appropriate. Specifically
   this calls for a budget increment of $2M in FY2000, and $3.5M in
   FY2001. 3.4 Compact Stellarator Assessment At present the subpanel does
   not recommend approval of CS as a PoP program, because of an important
   technical issue that needs to be resolved; specifically, the conceptual
   design embodiment (NCSX) must exhibit robustness of the equilibrium
   configuration throughout the plasma evolution. However, the subpanel is
   confident that the Compact Stellarator can become an important PoP
   program. The CS program ranked high in scientific benefit, energy
   vision and international integration. It is recommended that a FESAC
   subpanel participate in the Conceptual Design Review (CDR) of the NCSX
   project to complete the evaluation of readiness to proceed as an
   approved PoP program. It is further recommended that the design effort
   and supporting theory and modeling on NCSX be adequately funded to
   permit expeditious completion of an optimized design and a successful
   CDR. This is expected to entail an increment of $1M in FY00 and $1.5M
   in FY01. 15 9/13/99 3.5 MTF Assessment The subpanel does not recommend
   the MTF program be raised to the PoP level because of two primary
   concerns: (a) the target plasmas produced to date have not met the
   simultaneous requirements of temperature, density, and size; and (b)
   the reactor vision needs to be more compelling. With regard to the
   reactor vision, in addition to the well known engineering issues there
   is a critical physics issue: reactor relevant FRC's need to be stable
   during the implosion and burn particularly at the large expected values
   of s (plasma radius/gyro-radius). The MTF program ranked high in
   uniqueness and leading edge. The subpanel recommends a three-year
   continuation of their concept exploration program at approximately the
   present level of effort (with an OFES increase to offset the loss of
   internal funds) to produce and translate the required target plasma for
   the experiment. During this time OFES should also consider supporting
   the development of the reactor vision. 16 9/13/99 4.0 IFE Balance 4.1
   Overview Inertial fusion research involves the production, study and
   use of high energy density plasmas similar to those found in the center
   of stars. The two central objectives of inertial fusion energy (IFE)
   research are: * Advance the fundamental understanding and
   predictability of high energy density plasmas * Develop the science and
   technology of attractive rep-rated IFE power systems leveraging from
   the single shot work in the DP ICF Program. In IFE, a power plant would
   consist of four major components including a target factory to produce
   low cost targets, a driver capable of rep-rated operation to heat and
   compress the targets to ignition, a fusion chamber to recover the
   fusion energy pulses from the targets, and the equipment to convert
   fusion heat into electricity. There is a high level of synergy between
   the Department of Energy Office of Fusion Energy (OFES) IFE program
   addressing IFE-specific needs, and the DOE Defense Program (DP)
   Inertial Confinement Fusion (ICF) target physics program. * The DP
   program addresses the critical target physics issues in single shot
   experiments. * This allows a modest cost OFES program to focus on the
   development of high pulse-rate, efficient, reliable, and affordable
   drivers and associated fusion chambers, target fabrication, and target
   injection. The proposed OFES IFE program follows the stages of
   development in the combined MFE/IFE fusion energy development roadmap,
   with a set of metrics and goals for transitions from one stage to
   another. These metrics and goals were refined at the Snowmass meeting.
   The program elements are discussed in the FESAC Opportunities Document.
   There is a significant degree of separability of each of the major
   elements of an IFE Power plant and various combinations of drivers,
   targets, and chambers are promising. At the present time, two
   approaches are the most advanced and have the greatest potential of
   meeting near term IFE requirements. * One approach utilizes indirect
   drive targets, heavy ion drivers, and chambers with first walls
   protected from neutrons by a thick liquid layer. * The other approach
   utilizes direct drive targets, either a krypton fluoride (KrF) or diode
   pumped solid-state laser (DPSSL), and a dry wall chamber. * It is
   important to emphasize that there are other possible combinations of
   drivers and chambers, as well as other approaches including z-pinches,
   fast-ignition targets, and light ions. These approaches leverage the
   Defense Program's large investments in laser and pulsed power
   facilities, target design capabilities, and experimental infrastructure
   including target fabrication and diagnostics. The heavy ion driver
   approach leverages the large worldwide program in accelerator
   development. 17 9/13/99 4.2 Goals Near Term - 5 years For the most
   advanced approaches, a detailed set of program metrics and goals has
   been identified for ion beam and laser drivers, dry wall and protected
   wall chambers, direct and indirect drive target fabrication, and target
   injection. These metrics and goals assume a funding level for IFE of
   $50M/yr. The purpose of the PoP level IFE program is to provide the
   database for a decision on an Integrated Research Experiment (IRE) and
   the associated program. The IRE objective for the heavy ion approach is
   a completely integrated ion accelerator from injector to beam focus in
   target chamber center. The size and characteristics of the accelerator
   will be chosen so that the performance and cost of a driver for the
   fusion-engineering- development stage Engineering Test Facility (ETF)
   can be accurately projected. For lasers, the IRE plan is to develop and
   optimize one complete laser beam line that would be prototypical of an
   Engineering Test Facility (ETF) driver. The objectives of the IFE
   program are coordinated with the timescale of results expected from the
   defense program (DP) on NIF. Recent discussions within DP indicate that
   only 96 of 192 beams might be completed within the near term IFE time
   frame. It is expected that this first phase of NIF will be adequate for
   the near term IFE objectives needed for an IRE decision. A reassessment
   of the schedule and performance to be obtained from NIF, and
   coordination with the IFE program will be carried out when the revised
   NIF program plan is finalized. In order to have the knowledge base
   required to make a proposal for an IRE scale ion driver experiment, the
   near term program must meet several objectives: * Perform single-beam,
   high-current experiments to validate ion production, acceleration, and
   transport in a driver-relevant regime (line charge ten times higher
   than in present experiments). * Perform focusing and chamber transport
   experiments at intermediate scale (midway between present experiments
   and IRE experiments). * Complete detailed end-to-end (ion
   source-to-target) numerical simulations of the IRE and full-scale
   drivers. * Develop technologies to minimize the cost of the IRE.
   Ignoring economy of scale, the cost goals for the IRE are very close to
   the cost goals for fusion power production. * Before a construction
   decision on an indirect drive IRE is made we anticipate that
   experiments on implosion symmetry consistent with the requirements of
   IFE high-gain targets will have been successfully demonstrated using
   non-cryogenic targets on NIF. In the PoP stage, the key objectives to
   be demonstrated by both of the candidate laser drivers on a component
   or sub-scale system include: * Energy of several hundred joules in a
   laser architecture scalable to 2 MJ at a cost of $500/J. * Wall plug
   efficiency of 6-10% at a repetition rate of 5 Hz. * Reliability of 105
   to 108 shots between maintenance cycles. * Irradiation uniformity of
   0.3%. 18 9/13/99 Fusion chamber characteristics and lifetime, target
   fabrication methods, and target injection techniques play a critical
   role in determining the optimal driver and target combinations for IFE.
   In order to make an IRE decision, the PoP program must achieve the
   following goals: * Demonstrate that an IFE chamber can be cleared of
   droplets and/or vapor in less than ~200 ms to a level that lasers or
   ion beams can be focused on a target. * Driver/Chamber Interface
   issues: 1. Heavy ions: Produce a self-consistent design for final-focus
   magnets consistent with heavy ion target requirements and the standoff
   of protected wall chamber designs; 2. Lasers: Tests to determine the
   plausibility of achieving laser final optics lifetimes of >1
   full-power-year after being subjected to neutron, x-ray, and target
   debris. * Identify methods for low cost manufacture and rapid injection
   of both direct and indirect drive targets. In addition, concept
   exploration work will continue to be undertaken in these areas. Further
   concept exploration (CE) level research should be performed in a number
   of areas e.g.: rep-rated z-pinch driver concept based on a recyclable
   transmission line could be investigated; initial studies could include
   demonstration of a frozen FLiBe transmission line on Z, along with
   studies of z-pinch power plant concepts using solid Li packing (with
   variable density) in the chamber; other possible target concepts such
   as the fast ignitor could be examined; and science level studies of
   light ion sources could also be appropriate. Medium Term to 20 years: *
   Develop optimized target designs based on information from the IRE and
   NIF Programs. * Demonstrate that ion beams and lasers can be focussed
   on a target in a reactor relevant chamber several times a second with
   sufficient intensities to obtain moderate gain in an ETF. * Demonstrate
   that a rep-rated final-focus magnet/optics system can successfully
   operate in the radiation environment characteristic of an ETF. *
   Demonstrate the injection of both direct and indirect drive targets
   into a reactor relevant chamber and the low cost manufacture of about
   10,000 representative targets. * Demonstrate that reactor relevant
   materials can successfully operate after exposure to 10% of the goal of
   neutron, x-ray, and target debris exposure expected in an ETF. *
   Qualify materials for candidate ETF chambers that can meet current
   safety and environmental standards. * Carry out ETF design studies. *
   Complete the IRE program to provide the economic, scientific, and
   technological foundations for full-scale driver construction, allowing
   down-selection of options. Long Term * Design and begin construction of
   the ETF. * Through the ETF program and associated programs on materials
   and nuclear technologies, * develop the database for a DEMO. 19 9/13/99
   Continuing Science Goals * Improve understanding of high density plasma
   behavior, laser-materials interactions, driver science and technology,
   etc; * Continue laboratory astrophysics studies; and * Continue to
   spin-off developments of the program. 4.3 Balance Considerations To
   complete the IFE program on ion and laser drivers, protected wall and
   dry wall chambers, and indirect drive and direct drive target
   fabrication over about 4 to 5 years, while allowing for some concept
   exploration experiments, the required budget level would be about
   $50M/yr. A detailed assessment of appropriate levels of activity for
   program elements has been made for this case. An IFE budget at this
   level is unlikely to be supported except with the increased total
   budget of $300M discussed in section 5 of this report budget. An
   illustrative distribution of funds is in that section. At a total
   budget level of $260M a budget of around $30 M for IFE would be more
   appropriate and it would allow a vigorous development of the ion beam
   program in preparation for its IRE as described above. But it would
   lead to delays in the development of the laser path and reduce
   opportunities for concept exploration. The ion beam component of the
   program would account for about half of the budget. More work is needed
   to refine the budget breakdown. At budget levels lower than $30M/yr, it
   is not possible to maintain the IRE decision date for even a single
   approach to IFE without abandoning the other driver approaches
   completely. Such a decision would reduce the vitality of the IFE
   program. At a budget of $20M/yr, the laser driver development program
   would be further reduced and progress would be very slow. The ion
   driver and technology program would also be reduced and the IRE
   decision delayed. More work is needed to refine the budget breakdown.
   At a total budget level of $10M, an IFE program could not address
   critical issues such as rep- rated drivers and chamber issues that
   prepare for a timely decision (about 5 years) for any IRE. IFE
   activities at this level could address only a few critical issues such
   as heavy ion driver transport/focusing and fundamental chamber issues
   such as neutronically thick walls. In this case, the ability to
   capitalize on the DOE-DP investment in laser technology, that has
   positioned the U.S. as the world leader in IFE, would be weakened. In
   regard to concept exploration work, it is assumed that its sum, over
   the various areas of IFE, will be a few percent of the IFE budget. 4.4
   Recommendations * At a budget of $260 M in FY 2000, the sub-panel
   recommends that the IFE program should be funded at about $30 M, with
   about a half of the budget supporting development of the ion beam path.
   * If funding of greater than $30 M is provided for the IFE program in
   FY 2000, the sub-panel recommends that the bulk of the increase should
   support development of the laser path and for exploratory concepts. *
   If the budget were reduced to $20 M, the sub-panel recommends mounting
   an adequate, albeit delayed program to develop the ion beam option,
   while reducing the funding for the laser option. 20 9/13/99 5.0 MFE and
   IFE Balance 5.1 Overview In this section, the subpanel identifies key
   programmatic and policy goals to achieve a more integrated national
   effort in MFE and IFE (Sec. 5.2), address the balance between major MFE
   and IFE program elements over the next five years (Sec. 5.3), make
   specific recommendations to achieve this balance (Sec. 5.4), and
   address cross-cutting opportunities (Sec. 5.4). By way of relative
   context, the U.S. MFE effort funded by OFES ($212M in FY1999)
   constitutes about 17% of the worldwide research effort (about $1.3B in
   FY1999) on magnetic fusion energy, with particularly large programs in
   Europe and Japan. On the other hand, the U.S. IFE effort funded by OFES
   ($10M in FY1999) constitutes about 4.5% of the total OFES program, and
   leverages heavily on the significant inertial fusion program funded by
   DOE Defense Programs ($504M in operating and construction funds in
   FY1999), including $10M for the development of high-average-power
   diode-pumped and KrF lasers. Unlike MFE, foreign programs in inertial
   fusion (excluding defense programs), while high quality and
   complementary to the U.S. effort, are relatively small and the U.S. is
   the clear world leader. As a general remark, the subpanel agrees with
   the recommendations of the 1999 SEAB Fusion Task Force. In particular,
   in deciding the priorities and balance of program elements within OFES,
   it is essential to build effectively on the large fusion efforts abroad
   and in Defense Programs. 5.2 Goals The technical goals for the MFE and
   IFE programs have been delineated in Secs. 2.0  4.0 of this report and
   are not repeated here. The subpanel identifies achievement of a more
   integrated national program in MFE and IFE as a major programmatic and
   policy goal in the years ahead. While employing different technologies
   and plasma regimes, both approaches have a clear fusion energy goal
   with a strong science focus, and would greatly benefit from increased
   cross- fertilization of ideas, exchange of personnel, and joint use of
   facilities. There are also many specific cross-cutting technical areas
   as discussed in Sec. 5.4. At the planning level, the MFE and IFE
   program leaders have already taken the important step of developing a
   joint "Discussion Draft Roadmap" (November, 1998) and a joint FESAC
   Opportunities document has been prepared. Program integration is an
   important goal which will require a deliberate effort by the fusion
   community and OFES. Implementation of a common peer-review process for
   MFE, IFE, and cross-cutting research activities will be a key
   ingredient in developing a more integrated national fusion energy
   sciences program. The subpanel further endorses the recommendation made
   by the SEAB Fusion Task Force that DOE establish "some strengthened
   means for overall coordination" between the fusion efforts of Defense
   Programs and OFES. 5.3 Balance Considerations The priorities and
   balance within the MFE program and the IFE program are addressed in
   Secs. 2.0  4.0 and are not repeated here. Rather, the subpanel has
   focused on issues related to the relative balance between the MFE and
   IFE activities supported by the DOE. Both of these programs have made
   remarkable technical progress under difficult funding circumstances. By
   21 9/13/99 any measure, the funding for fusion energy is now
   subcritical. OFES support for MFE has declined from $350M in FY1995 to
   about $212M in FY1997-99. This significant decrease in funding has
   prevented adequate support for the new innovative magnetic concepts
   central to the restructured fusion energy sciences program and may
   result in the inability of the U.S. to participate in and influence
   major international decisions for next-step experiments, expected in a
   five-year time frame. Similarly, the present level of direct support
   for IFE from OFES ($10M) and of dual-use support from Defense Programs
   ($10M) is inadequate to establish the scientific and technological
   database for even one driver (heavy ions or lasers) in preparation for
   an IRE decision in a five-year time frame. Establishing an optimal
   balance between IFE and MFE in a more integrated national program in
   fusion energy sciences should be based on the following guiding
   principles: (1) The MFE and IFE programs should be consistent with
   their respective time frames, set in part by * MFE opportunities to
   participate in major international experiments; * IFE opportunities to
   leverage the DP funded ICF program. (2) Specific elements of science
   and technology critical for evaluating the ultimate energy potential of
   IFE and MFE, such as interaction of the plasma with chamber walls,
   should be brought to comparable levels of maturity. (3) The dramatic
   advances in the predictive power of modern theory and simulation make
   these tools essential elements of a cost-effective program. (4) A
   common peer-review process for MFE, IFE, and cross-cutting activities
   should be implemented wherever possible. (5) Cross-cutting science and
   technology, with application to both MFE and IFE, deserves special
   encouragement. (6) Attracting and maintaining a talent pool of creative
   young scientists in the combined program, for example through research
   with broad scientific or technological implications, is crucial to
   fusion progress. 5.4 Recommendations In order to position the U.S. to
   execute the combined MFE/IFE research programs within the time frames
   set by the worldwide magnetic fusion program and the DP-funded inertial
   fusion program, the panel strongly endorses a funding level of $300M
   for the fusion energy sciences program. This target budget represents a
   total funding increase of about 30% ($68M) over the FY1999 level but is
   still substantially smaller than the $360M level in FY1995. It
   represents a balanced program for both MFE and IFE, and the two
   approaches are able to capitalize on respective advances in the
   worldwide magnetic fusion program and the DP-funded inertial fusion
   program in a timely manner. In order to illustrate further the impact
   of the funding on the balance of MFE and IFE research, three budget
   cases are considered: 1. $260M Case: This case corresponds to the $250M
   OFES plus $10M DP funding level recommended by the House Energy and
   Water Appropriations Subcommittee for FY2000. 22 9/13/99 2. $222M Case:
   This case corresponds to the OFES funding level for FY1999 and assumes
   no DP support for advanced laser development. 3. $300M Case: This case
   corresponds to an annual funding level of $300M, possibly including
   $290M OFES plus $10M DP in the FY2001  FY 2004 time frame. Case 3
   ($300M) is highly recommended by the Panel, and would result in a
   strong, national program in MFE and IFE, with a focus on innovation,
   and it includes the resources needed to address the energy goal in a
   timely manner. The recommendations for the first two budget cases are
   specifically targeted at FY2000, although the relative priorities and
   balance would also pertain to averages over a five-year period if
   Budget Case 3 were not realized in FY2001 and beyond. The overall
   annual funding allocations recommended by the Panel in the three budget
   cases are shown in Table 2. Budget Case MFE IFE ($) ($) ($) 300M 250M
   50M 260M 230M 30M 222M 207M 15M Table 2. Funding breakdown between MFE
   and IFE in the three budget cases. Recommendations in the $260M Case In
   the $260M case, the Panel recommends allocation of $230M for MFE and
   $30M for IFE. In the text that follows, the numbers in parentheses
   represent illustrative increments (relative to the FY2000 Presidential
   request) used by the Panel for analysis purposes for the case of the
   four MFE thrust areas, and illustrative totals for the case of the
   three IFE major program elements. Magnetic Fusion Energy: At the $260M
   total funding level, the subpanel recommends incremental funding of
   $18M for MFE research. This increment (1) initiates and enhances the
   investigations of several promising innovative magnetic confinement
   configurations at a limited scale, (2) provides new tools and resources
   to more fully utilize existing large research facilities and U.S.
   participation in international facilities, and (3) strengthens the
   theory/computation and technology areas. The larger facilities are now
   being used to understand and optimize the performance of the more
   developed configurations under consideration by the international
   community as candidates for major next-step experiments capable of
   studying burning plasma physics. At the $260M level, the funding for
   all four MFE thrust areas (described more fully in Section 2) should
   increase. However, the subpanel believes this funding level will delay
   the planned assessment of confinement configurations and may over time
   disengage the U.S. program from the international community. The four
   interrelated research thrust areas in MFE are: (1) advance fundamental
   understanding and predictability, (2) resolve outstanding issues by
   investigating innovative confinement configurations, (3) optimize and
   understand the performance of plasmas at or near the scale for fusion
   energy production, and (4) develop the technologies required for fusion
   science and fusion energy development. Support for fusion theory and
   computation and fundamental sciences should increase (+ $2.5M) with
   emphasis in those areas which allow critical evaluation of a wide range
   of magnetic confinement configurations which advance the predictability
   of 23 9/13/99 fusion energy performance projections, and enhance basic
   plasma science studies. Support for the investigations of innovative
   confinement configurations should increase (+ $5.1M) in order to
   adequately diagnose proof-of-principle programs, initiate programs to
   study new configurations at this level, and strengthen exploratory
   programs. Support for operating and upgrading the larger fusion
   research facilities should increase (+ $6.2M) in order to install new
   plasma control tools, to increase the operation of domestic advanced
   tokamak and spherical torus experiments, and to augment U.S. research
   collaborations with the larger tokamak facilities abroad. Finally,
   support for innovative plasma and fusion technologies and system
   analysis should increase (+ $4.2M) with emphasis on those technologies
   which enable fusion science research, and appear as high-leverage areas
   for establishing reduced-cost paths to more attractive end products.
   Inertial Fusion Energy: At the $260M total funding level, an IFE
   program which maintains some breadth of options while addressing
   critical technical issues can be formulated at $30M. Progress in key
   areas for laser development would take place ($10M), e.g., key
   component lifetime tests for Krypton Fluoride (KrF), and gain media and
   diode performance and cost evaluations for solid state lasers (SSD).
   Because the stewardship of heavy ion drives is solely the
   responsibility of OFES, at the $30M budget level for IFE, this element
   of the IFE program is maintained at $13M at the $30M budget level for
   IFE. This enables key beam experiments, theory and simulation
   (focusing, beam transport), component development, target design, and
   enabling technologies, to move forward. Finally, at this level, chamber
   technologies (lasers and ions, target fabrication and injection) would
   be increased to $7M. This funding recognizes the high leverage that
   this area has on the feasibility of IFE. Of this budget, a few-percent
   IFE contribution to IFE initiatives in concept exploration, high energy
   density physics, and plasma theory would be set aside. It should be
   emphasized that, if this budget level were maintained, it would not
   enable a five-year time scale for an IRE decision that maintains the
   necessary breadth of driver options, and re-evaluation would be
   required. Recommendations in the $222M Case This case corresponds to
   $222M of OFES funding, and zero DP funding for advanced lasers. The
   severe reduction of advanced laser capability as a driver option, and
   the associated personnel, would effectively narrow the number of driver
   options for the IRE to one (heavy ions), supported by OFES. Level or
   decreased funding of the MFE program would seriously delay new
   proof-of-principle initiatives, significantly curtail technology
   activities, and prevent full utilization of existing national research
   facilities. As already noted in Sec. 5.3, the $222M case is already
   subcritical for meeting MFE and IFE program objectives. Nonetheless,
   the Panel recommends in this case that about $15M (up from $10M in the
   FY2000 Presidential request) of the $222M be applied to IFE activities
   in FY2000. In the $5M incremental funding for IFE, particular emphasis
   should be placed on chamber technologies, beam propagation issues in
   the target chamber, and maintenance funding for high-average-power
   laser development. Recommendations in the $300M Case In the $300M case,
   the Panel recommends allocation of $250M for MFE and $50M for IFE. In
   the text that follows, the numbers in parenthesis represent
   illustrative increments (relative to the FY2000 Presidential request)
   used by the Panel for analysis purposes for the case of the four MFE
   thrust areas, and illustrative totals for the case of the three IFE
   major program elements. Magnetic Fusion Energy: For this budget case,
   the subpanel recommends an incremental funding of $38M for MFE. As
   detailed in Section 2, funding at this level enables (1) a more
   thorough investigation of several innovative confinement
   configurations, (2) the timely 24 9/13/99 evaluation of advanced
   operating modes in large-scale, high-temperature plasma devices, (3)
   more aggressive development of comprehensive modeling/simulation tools,
   and (4) development of innovative solutions to important fusion
   technology issues. Progress in these areas is needed to be ready for a
   U.S. assessment of the leading approaches to magnetic confinement in
   the five-year time frame. This time frame coincides with expected
   international decisions to construct major next-step experiments
   capable of investigating the physics of burning plasmas. By completing
   sufficient investigation of possible optimizations and extensions of
   advanced tokamak and spherical torus operating modes, the U.S. fusion
   program may have greater influence on major next-step decisions, become
   better prepared to participate in future international experiments, and
   create new domestic opportunities for the study of one or more of the
   most promising innovative configurations at larger scale. In order to
   be scientifically and technically ready for a U.S. assessment, the MFE
   plan requires proportionally larger incremental funding in all four
   thrust areas than in the $260M case, while maintaining a balance among
   them. The funding increases for the four thrust areas should be +$5.7M
   for theory and computation and fundamental science, +$12M for
   investigation of a range of promising confinement configurations, +$13M
   for the optimization and expeditious evaluation of advanced tokamak and
   spherical torus configurations, utilizing both domestic and
   international facilities, and +$7.3M for technology development and
   system analysis required for magnetic fusion science and fusion energy
   development. Inertial Fusion Energy: At an overall fusion energy budget
   of $300M, an IFE program can be constructed that leverages the DOE DP
   inertial fusion activities, maintains the breadth of options now
   appropriate, and addresses the critical issues in drivers and target
   chamber science and technology. This IFE program, funded at a level of
   $50M, adequately prepares OFES for a decision on an integrated research
   experiment (IRE) in a five-year time period. This program would fund
   high-average-power rep-rated laser development ($26M) for both Krypton
   Fluoride (KrF) and solid state lasers (SSL), heavy ion drivers ($16M),
   and the critical associated technologies ($8M) such as chamber
   technologies, target fabrication and injection, and driver interfaces.
   (Funding levels are four-year averages.) Of this budget, a few-percent
   of the IFE budget would contribute to IFE initiatives in concept
   exploration, high-energy-density physics, and plasma theory would be
   made. A small level of concept exploration in rep-rated Z pinches, fast
   igniter, and low-mass ions would be encouraged. Cross-Cutting Areas The
   subpanel has noted in the fifth Guiding Principle in Sec. 5.3 that
   areas of research that apply to both MFE and IFE deserve special
   encouragement. Two areas are cross-cutting in this sense and it is
   recommended that strong OFES support be given: theory and technology.
   Theory. The restructured fusion program must deal with a broader range
   of physics issues than the present program. Such issues as ion beam
   propagation in the target chamber, and nonlinear, non-ideal MHD must be
   studied. The subpanel believes that a strong theory and computational
   program is an essential component in making informed choices and
   evaluating experimental progress. The subpanel recognizes that advances
   in computational capabilities may enable a dramatic advance in the
   ability to predict the performance of magnetically and inertially
   confined plasmas. The overlap between MFE and IFE physics allows
   stronger coordination in an integrated national program to provide
   improved algorithms and more efficient use of advanced computers. To be
   effective, this new theory initiative must have both increased
   resources as well as a stronger focus. Coordination of theoretical
   activities, with the goal of assisting particular CE and POP groups, as
   well as advancing simulation of the highest-performance plasmas, is
   recommended. The U.S. should maintain its position as the clear
   worldwide leader in fusion terascale computing. OFES should have a plan
   coordinated with the Strategic Simulation Initiative , providing
   resources to insure that this capability is effectively utilized. 25
   9/13/99 Technology . Technology, like theory, addresses issues common
   to IFE and MFE in several areas. Concepts such as liquid walls also
   have application to both IFE and MFE programs, and could increase the
   potential first wall power density and reduce radioactive wastes.
   Fusion power system studies carried out in a collaborative mode could
   help provide a common basis for assessments of the technical
   approaches. Technology research also provides important contributions
   to the underlying materials and engineering sciences. The integration
   of MFE and IFE technology research has already begun under the Virtual
   Laboratory for Technology; such efforts should be further encouraged.
   Because of the cost effectiveness and leverage of both these
   cross-cutting areas to fusion energy development, the increases for
   these areas represented by the recommendations earlier in Sec. 5.4 for
   the $260M and $300M cases are strongly endorsed. In the event of level
   funding at $222M, every effort should be made to enhance these areas
   above their FY1999 levels. 26 9/13/99 Appendix A FESAC Priorities and
   Balance Panel Membership Charles Baker (Chair) University of
   California, San Diego MFE Balance PoP Balance IFE Balance Overall
   MFE/IFE Balance Stephen Dean* Jeffrey Freidberg* John Sheffield* Ronald
   Davidson* (Fusion Power Assoc) (MIT) (ORNL) (PPPL) Raymond Fonck Thomas
   Jarboe Roger Bangerter Charles Baker (Univ. of Wisc.) (Univ. of Wash.)
   (LBNL) (UCSD) David Hill Joseph Johnson, III Gerald Kulcinski David
   Baldwin (LLNL) (Florida A&M Univ.) (Univ. of Wisc.) (General Atomics)
   Wayne Houlberg Gerald Navratil John Lindl Richard Briggs (ORNL)
   (Columbia Univ.) (LLNL) (SAIC) Kathryn McCarthy David Newman Craig
   Olson E. Michael Campbell (INEEL) (Univ. of Alaska) (Sandia Nat'l Lab)
   (LLNL) Cynthia Phillips Tony Peebles John Soures Jill Dahlburg (PPPL)
   (UCLA) (Univ. of Rochester)) (NRL) Miklos Porkolab Don Steiner Rob
   Goldston (PSFC/MIT) (Rensselaer) (PPPL) Ned Sauthoff Tony Taylor
   Richard Hazeltine (PPPL) (General Atomics) (Univ. of Texas) Kurt
   Schoenberg Harold Weitzner Michael Mauel (LANL) (New York Univ.)
   (Columbia Univ.) Clement Wong (General Atomics) Marshall Rosenbluth
   (UCSD) Michael Zarnstorff (PPPL) *Subpanel Chair 27
