http://www.nas.nasa.gov/Research/Datasets/datasets.html

   text-based alphabetical index Skip to content
                                 [TopBarRow2.gif] StaffDirectory Search
                                 [TopBarRow3.gif]

   Home
   AboutNAS
   ResearchNTechnology
   CurrentResearch
   PapersNReports
   AvailableSoftware
   sample datasets
   UserServices
   [NavBarBottomPt1.gif]
   ContactUs
   Feedback
   Sitemap
   Help
   [NavBarBottomPt2.gif]

   Sample Datasets

   In addition to offering downloadable software for visualizing
   computational fluid dynamics and other data, The NAS web site offers
   sample datasets that represent simulations computed by researchers on
   systems at the NAS Facility. Available to the scientific community for
   research, study, and exploration, the datasets can be duplicated and
   redistributed as long as the principal investigators for the data are
   credited.

   Below are short descriptions of the datasets.

   Multi-Component Wing
   T. J. Barth and S. W. Linton.
   This is the data for a multiple-component wing computation of inviscid
   compressible flow (Mach = .2, alpha = 0 deg). The mesh has been
   decomposed into 16 subdomains for parallel computation on the IBM SP2
   parallel computer.

   Space Shuttle Launch Vehicle
   P.G. Buning, et. al. 1989
   This simulation of the Space Shuttle Launch Vehicle has the space
   shuttle in launch configuration, including the external tank, shuttle
   rocket boosters and some interconnection hardware. Only one half of the
   geometry (and surrounding flow field) is represented, as the data is
   assumed to be symmetric about the central plane. The orbiter tail is
   missing from this geometric description.

   Delta Wing at 40 degrees angle of attack
   J.A. Ekaterinaris and L.B. Schiff. 1990
   Flow past a very simplified geometry representing a delta wing
   aircraft, at a moderately high angle of attack.

   Ring Galaxies
   R. A. Gerber, S. A. Lamb, and D. S. Balsara. May, 1995
   Simulation of two galaxies colliding. Stars and gas are simulated.

   Blunt Fin
   C.M. Hung and P.G. Buning. 1990
   Airflow over a flat plate with a blunt fin rising from the plate. Free
   stream flow direction is parallel to the plate and to the flat part of
   the fin, entirely in the x component direction. The flow is assumed to
   be symmetrical about a plane through the center of the fin, so only one
   half of the "real" geometry is present and used in the computation.

   Tapered Cylinder
   D. Jespersen and C. Levit. 1991
   Unsteady solution of flow around a tapered cylinder.

   Flat Plate
   S. Lawrence. May, 1995
   Airflow over a flat plate. This is really a two-dimensional flow, but
   the dataset is in three- dimensional format. The flow is turbulent,
   modeled with the Baldwin-Lomax turbulence model.

   Impinging Jet
   T. Pulliam. 1995
   Unsteady solution of an impinging jet.

   Liquid Oxygen Post
   S. E. Rogers, D. Kwak, U. Kaul. 1986
   Liquid oxygen (incompressible) flow across a flat plate with a
   cylindrical post rising perpendicular to the plate (and therefore the
   flow). The simulation is modeling a flow internal to a rocket engine. A
   Space Shuttle Launch Vehicle engine has a region in which many such
   posts obstruct flow of liquid oxygen to promote better mixing.

   lftr Unstructured Langley Fighter
   Neely, Batina. 1992
   These are the unstructured format data for the Langley Fighter, from a
   wind tunnel model developed at NASA Langley Research Center.

   Substructures in Turbulent Spots
   Bart A. Singer. 1994

   Plot3D Tutorial Data (wingbodytail)
   J.A. Benek, P.G. Buning, and J.L. Steger. 1985

Curator: Jill Dunbar

                                                                Last Update: August 27, 2001

NASA Official: William J Feiereisen
