http://www.savingsbonds.gov/sav/savgifts.htm

  skip to main content
  Savings Bonds Home Page

  Public Debt Home Page

  Print this page

  Navigational Tool
  Click for text links

   U.S. Savings Bonds Series EE/E Area
   line divider

                           Savings Bonds for Gifts

   U.S. Savings Bonds can be used as a gift for any occasion--birthdays,
   weddings, graduations, births, or special holidays. The list of things
   to celebrate with bonds is endless. Bonds come in several
   denominations, so you'll always find the gift that fits your needs!

   If you're buying a savings bond for a gift and you don't have the
   Social Security Number of the person you're buying the bond for, simply
   use your number. Even though your number will be printed on the bond,
   you'll incur no tax liability. Social Security Number is used for
   tracking purposes only, such as in cases where the savings bond is
   lost, stolen, or destroyed.

   Plan ahead--if you allow three weeks for your gift bond to be delivered
   to you, you'll have it in time to give to the person yourself. However,
   even if you wait until the last minute, just ask your bank to send the
   bond directly to the person. Then ask your bank for a gift certificate
   to include in a card or to give in person. The person you're buying for
   actually remembers you twice--once when given the certificate and later
   when the bond comes in the mail from the Federal Reserve Bank!

   You can also buy bonds directly from our web site through Savings Bonds
   Direct. It's fast, easy, and convenient! Bonds are normally delivered
   within two weeks. If you're running short on time, print out our gift
   certificate.

   See also:

   EasySaver - An easier way to buy savings bonds!
   Series EE Bonds for Education

   Return to Main Menu for Series EE/E Bonds

                                        Are you looking for another bond series?


                            Series HH/H Series I

                          Updated December 28, 2001
