http://coepark.parks.ca.gov/hikes-hh-desc.html

                                                                Home Index

                         Popular Coe Park Day Hikes
                   starting at the Hunting Hollow Entrance

       Drinking water is not available at the Hunting Hollow Entrance
    (nor at the Coyote Creek entrance), so be sure to bring all the water
    you'll need.
    (entrance information)

   Up the Hollow and Back Distance
   (round trip) Elevation Gain
   (round trip)
   7 miles 300 feet

      Description:  This relatively easy, nearly level hike takes you from
      the parking area at Hunting Hollow to the end of the Hollow and back
      again on the same dirt road.  This hike (or a reduced version of it) is
      perfect for families with young children, older folks, creek and
      wildflower photographers, and just plain nature wanderers.  This hike
      may well be the flattest one of this distance in the whole park.  Wild
      turkey have been known to perform their mating dances near the end of
      the Hunting Hollow road in the early winter, wild pig can be spotted on
      many days, and even a mountain lion sighting has been reported in the
      second meadow past the windmill.  The hike takes you across 18 creek
      crossings, so be prepared to rock hop or walk in wet shoes during
      winter and spring.  If you look for them, there are ways to go around
      the crossings to avoid wet hiking boots.  The creek crossings are
      separated by large and small meadows, each with its own unique
      characteristics, all with some combination of sycamore, bay, and live
      oak trees and riparian habitat.  You may want to venture into one of
      the many side canyons along the way, where you'll find places to
      explore, picnic, or sprawl out and nap.

      Route:  Start at the Hunting Hollow parking lot and follow the road
      past the vehicle gate to the first creek crossing.  During winter,
      spring and early summer, you can hop the rock "bridge" over the creek
      just left of the road crossing.  Proceed along the road 3.5 miles to
      the signpost at Wagon Road.  You can actually continue up the Hollow
      road as it climbs a small hill to the park boundary gate (an extra
      quarter mile).  Return on the same route.

      Side Trips:  There are several short side trips to consider on this
      hike.  We've listed three of them here.

   1. At the corral (a little over a half mile from the parking lot), turn
      left (going east).  There's a cattle gate that you'll need to unchain
      and pass through.  Be sure to replace the chain from November through
      June, when cattle may be grazing in this part of the park (they'll be
      gone in a few years).  Continue east over a small rise.  Follow the
      trail along the little creek.  A signpost in a small flat area between
      creeks points the way to Willson Peak.  Ignore the signs and take the
      animal trail that follows the rightmost creek to the right and takes
      you into Braen Canyon.  You're sure to find a good spot for lunch in
      this beautiful creek setting.
   2. At Coon Hunter's Gulch, about 1.75 miles in (check your map), turn
      left (going east), cross a flat meadow, and walk over a small rise to a
      protected meadow alongside Coon Hunter's Creek.  If it weren't for the
      cattle deposits, this would be an excellent place to camp, eat lunch,
      or paint a picture.  The cattle won't be in the park much longer
      though, so you might want to check it out.
   3. Just beyond Coon Hunter's Gulch, take the trail that goes up the
      steep but relatively low (for Coe Park) hill to a flat hilltop in a
      grove of blue oaks.  You'll be rewarded with great views of Hunting
      Hollow canyon and the surrounding ridges.  Pigs and deer bed down on
      the hilltop, so ascend quietly and you might catch them napping.

                           (hike list)         (top)

                Willson Peak Loop
   (via Steer Ridge and Lyman Willson trails)   Distance
                                              (round trip) Elevation Gain
                                                           (round trip)
                                                6 miles        (tbd)

   Description:  This relatively short, strenuous hike rises quickly from
   Hunting Hollow and provides expanding views of the Hollow and Coyote
   Creek, the parks's southern ridges (Osos, Middle Steer, Jim Donnelley,
   Lyman Wilson, and Phegley ridges), and the fairly spectacular Palassou
   Ridge, rising up from Coyote Creek in the northwest.  When you reach
   the top of Steer Ridge, you'll hike east under blue and valley oaks
   toward Willson Peak, with views north and south (look for Fremont Peak
   some 20 miles or so south).  On Willson Peak and beyond, you'll be able
   to see landmarks from all parts of the park, including Blue Ridge, Red
   Mountain, the Rooster Comb, Mustang Peak, and park headquarters on Pine
   Ridge.  On clear days, you'll be able to make out the snowy peaks of
   the Sierra Nevada to the east and Monterey Bay glistening in the sun to
   the southwest.  In springtime, the blue-green serpentine outcrops on
   Willson Peak are studded with wildflowers, providing great photo
   opportunities of birds'-eye gilias, poppies, and goldfields.

   Route:  At the first creek crossing beyond the parking lot, turn left
   on Steer Ridge Trail, heading for Willson Peak.  Your heart will be
   pumping fast right away because this trail wastes no time gaining
   elevation.  Follow the trail to Steer Ridge Road and continue, heading
   east now, to Willson Peak.  About a mile beyond Willson Peak, you'll
   come to the Lyman Willson Trail junction.  Take the Lyman Willson Trail
   down to the Hunting Hollow Road, turn right, and hike less than a mile
   back to the entrance parking lot.

   Option:  Substitute Middle Steer Ridge Trail for Steer Ridge Trail.
   You can also substitute Jim Donnelley Trail, though the trail is often
   so overgrown that it's easy to lose your way.  These steep trails begin
   at the same point.  At the trail sign, turn left to take the Jim
   Donnelly Trail, or cross the small creek and follow the trail up the
   middle ridge, between the two creeks, to take the Middle Steer Ridge
   Trail.

                           (hike list)         (top)

   Phegley Ridge, Willson Camp Loop Distance
   (round trip) Elevation Gain
   (round trip)
   9-10 miles (tbd)

      Description:  On this hike, you'll experience all the finest features
      of the Hunting Hollow area:  creek habitat, wildflower profusion in the
      spring, breathtaking views, historical sites, wildlife, and excellent
      fishing opportunities.  You'll follow the idylic wandering of the creek
      in Hunting Hollow and hike past the old homesite of the first settlers
      in the Hollow, a husband and wife who had 12 children and supplied game
      to Gilroy restaurants (look for the windmill across the creek from the
      homesite).  You'll travel through meadows and past canyon openings on
      your way to the Phegley Ridge trailhead, which has no signpost but is
      easy to find.  In the spring, goldfields carpet the bowl-like open
      hillsides as you climb the demanding ridge.  When the trail levels off
      some, you'll pass under coast live oak forests and arrive at Redfern
      Pond.  From this year-round pond, returning hikers have reported
      catching bass as long as their forearms.  Along Wagon Road, you'll see
      ranchlands and ancient peaks across the rol ling ridgetops south of the
      park, and then you'll descend into the headwaters of Coon Hunter's
      Gulch, a good place to rest in the shade.  Or you can keep going and
      rest at Willson Camp on the porch of the old ranchhouse.  Behind the
      ranchhouse, follow the Bowl Trail to the next trail junction and turn
      left on the Lyman Willson Ridge Trail, which will take you back to
      Hunting Hollow Road, giving you fine views into the depths of Coon
      Hunter's Gulch along the way.

      Route:  Follow the road from the Hunting Hollow entrance 1.75 miles to
      Phegley Ridge trailhead.  The trail is unmarked but visible from the
      road just before the second creek crossing beyond Coon Hunter's Gulch.
      Follow the trail to Wagon Road and then go north to Willson Camp.
      Behind the ranchhouse, follow the Bowl Trail till you come to a
      junction and then go left on the Lyman Willson Ridge Trail, which will
      take you back to Hunting Hollow Road.

      Options:

   1. Bypass Phegley Ridge Trail and continue to Wagon Road, another mile
      and a quarter up Hunting Hollow.  Take Wagon Road up the hill, pass the
      junction of Phegley Ridge Trail, and continue to Willson Camp.
   2. Continue past Willson Camp up Steer Ridge Road to Willson Peak, the
      highest point in the southern part of the park and a fine vantage point
      for viewing many Coe Park landmarks.  >From Willson Peak, you can
      descend back into Hunting Hollow on Middle Steer Ridge Trail, Jim
      Donnelly Trail, or Steer Ridge Trail.

                           (hike list)         (top)

   Grizzly Gulch, Willson Peak Loop Distance
   (round trip) Elevation Gain
   (round trip)
   11 miles (tbd)

   Description:  On this hike, you'll travel through the Grizzly Gulch
   canyon, hike over Willson Peak, and descend into the Hunting Hollow
   canyon.  The changes in terrain are dramatic on this great outing.  On
   Grizzly Gulch Trail, you'll pass through dense forest above Grizzly
   creek, then cross the creek and climb the flank below Jackson Peak
   through oaks and grasslands.  Then you'll travel east across the mid
   section of the ridge, where you'll pass grassy canyons and recesses on
   one side and constantly changing views across the big Grizzly Gulch
   canyon to the Willson Peak, Steer Ridge mountain flank on the other
   side.  On the Serpentine Trail you'll climb the last few hundred feet
   in elevation to the Willson Peak area.  Watch for deer, turkey, and
   wild pig, which hikers often see along this beautiful stretch of
   parkland.  You'll be rewarded with fine views to the north, east, and
   south as you reach the top of the ridge.  In late winter and throughout
   the spring, the wildflowers on Willson Peak are spectacular.

   Route:  This hike can begin and end at Hunting Hollow or at Grizzly
   Gulch, which is just inside the Coyote Creek entrance.  If you plan to
   start at one point and end at the other, you can either walk the two
   miles between the two points on the paved Gilroy Hot Springs Road, or
   you can do a car shuttle, parking one vehicle at Hunting Hollow and
   driving the other vehicle to the Coyote Creek entrance and beginning
   your hike at Grizzly Gulch.  We recommend Grizzly Gulch as the starting
   point because that route spreads out the elevation gains and has
   several flat areas between the steep uphill sections.

   Note:  If you park at the Coyote Creek Entrance, be forewarned that
   vandalism is sometimes a problem (mostly at night on the weekends).
   Keep all valuables out of sight.

   Recommended Route:  From Hunting Hollow, follow Gilroy Hot Springs Road
   to the Coyote Creek entrance.  Then follow the dirt road past the
   locked park gate.  At the ramada, bear right up the slight hill.
   There's a portable toilet on this rise.  Walk south from the toilet
   under the oaks, then pick up the trail to the left.  Continue less than
   a quarter mile to the Grizzly Gulch trailhead and go left on the
   trail.  You'll hike through a forested area about a half mile as the
   trail winds back down to the Gulch.  The creek is beautiful here, with
   rock pools in the midst of the steep canyon.  Cross the creek and
   follow the trail halfway up Wasno Ridge (roughly north) to the sign
   pointing east toward Willson Ranch, still on Grizzly Gulch Trail.
   Follow the old road as it crosses the middle section of the big
   mountain, providing great views of Grizzly Gulch canyon, Willson Peak,
   and Steer Ridge. You'll criss-cross Grizzly Gulch on the upper end,
   pass Tule Pond, then climb for a quarter mile to Serpentine Trail.
   Hike west on Serpentine Trail about one mile to Willson Peak.  At
   Willson Peak, continue west a quarter mile to Middle Steer Ridge Trail
   and follow the trail, for about two miles, down to the creek crossing.
   Then follow the creek and the trail out into Hunting Hollow, where
   you'll find signs showing you the way back to the parking lot.

                           (hike list)         (top)

                               [greenline.gif]
                      Return  to the Coe Park home page
