http://hurricanes.noaa.gov/prepare/

   Hurricanes Home

                       Hurricane Basics Navigation Bar

                              Hurricane Elena
               Hurricane Elena as seen from the space shuttle

   Sinking Ship There is nothing like them in the atmosphere. Born in warm
   tropical waters, these spiraling masses require a complex combination
   of atmospheric processes to grow, mature, and then die. They are not
   the largest storm systems in our atmosphere or the most violent, but
   they combine these qualities as no other phenomenon does.
   In the Atlantic Basin, they are called hurricanes, a term that echoes
   colonial Spanish and Caribbean Indian words for evil spirits and big
   winds. These awesome storms have been a deadly problem for residents
   and sailors ever since the early days of colonization. Today, hurricane
   damage costs billions of dollars. During this century, 23 hurricanes
   have each caused damage in excess of $1 billion (adjusted for
   inflation). Damage from Hurricane Andrew (1992) alone was estimated at
   more than $25 billion in South Florida and Louisiana and undoubtedly
   would have been higher had the storm hit Miami directly.
                    U.S. Property Loss U.S. Loss of Life
   Thankfully, the number of people injured or killed during tropical
   cyclones in the United States has been declining, largely because of
   improvements in forecasting and emergency preparedness. Nonetheless,
   our risk from hurricanes is increasing. With population and development
   continuing to increase along coastal areas, greater numbers of people
   and property are vulnerable to hurricane threat. Large numbers of
   tourists also favor coastal locations, adding greatly to the problems
   of emergency managers and local decision makers during a hurricane
   threat.
   Hurricanes cannot be controlled, but our vulnerability can be reduced
   through preparedness.


                          Hurricane Camille Damage
              The Richelieu Apartments before Hurricane Camille


                          Hurricane Camille Damage
              The Richelieu Apartments after Hurricane Camille

    Community Hurricane Preparedness is courtesy of the COMET Program, a
    partnership between NOAA, FEMA and UCAR (University Corporation for
    Atmospheric Research.
