http://www-envirinfo.llnl.gov/GERT_.pdf

   UCRL-TB-104702 Rev General Radiation Safety at University of California
   National Laboratory Lawrence Livermore Employee . 3 Radiological LLNL
   October 1999 Training Laboratory under Contract W W California, and
   shall not be used for advertising or pr expr favoring by the United
   States Government or the University of California. The views and
   opinions of authors mark, manufactur vately owned rights. Refer ness of
   any information, apparatus, pr ranty Neither the United States
   Government nor the University of California nor any of their employees,
   makes any war This document was pr Emer Refer Other Sour
   Responsibilities 10 Acquiring and T Basic Radiation Safety Contr
   Monitoring Radiation Exposur Pr Risks Occupational Dose Limits What is
   Radiation and Wher ork performed under the auspices of the U.S.
   Department of Ener essed her otecting the Embryo/Fetus , expr gency Pr
   ences 12 Associated with Radiation Exposur ess or implied, or assumes
   any legal liability or r ein do not necessarily state or r er ces of
   Information , or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply
   its endorsement, r epar ocedur ence her ransporting Radioactive
   Material ed as an account of work sponsor -7405-ENG-48. es ein to any
   specific commer oduct, or pr ols e Does it Come Fr eflect those of the
   United States Government or the University of e Contents ocess
   disclosed, or r DISCLAIMER oduct endorsement purposes. esponsibility
   for the accuracy cial pr ed by an agency of the United States
   Government. es oduct, pr gy by Lawr epresents that its use would not
   infringe pri- om? ocess, or service by trade name, trade- ence Livermor
   , completeness, or useful- 1 10 7 5 5 4 3 2 1 e National ecommendation,
   or - technician can pr envir tr This booklet pr r ing the untrained
   worker complies with the posted radiation safety into ar Individuals
   who have completed GER booklet or complete the web-based course to
   document their training. contractors) must sign and carry the GER out
   in October of alternating years. Other individuals (e.g., visitors,
   other Recor Retraining is automatically documented in the Livermor
   course (HS0001) online at http://www-training.llnl.gov/wbt/. ment is
   satisfied by r as part of New Employee Orientation. The biennial r For
   LLNL assignments as a radiological worker radiological worker training
   must be completed prior to unescorted ar symbol (see Fig. 1). ar
   Employee Radiological T these activities, basic radiological training,
   otherwise known as General uals ar to accomplish its r tors, ar (RGDs),
   such as x-ray machines, electr A equir ols LLNL e allowed to r e
   allowed unescorted access into ar variety of radioactive materials and
   radiation-generating devices onment. The ar ements. ds and Information
   Network (L eas r e awar e used at the Lawr General Employee
   Radiological T and supplemental labor employees, GER implements to
   ensur equiring GER e of the potential radiological hazar ovides general
   information about radiation and the con- eceive an occupational dose in
   these ar ovide specific information about your work ar esear
   Additionally ea supervisor or the ES&H T eading this booklet or by
   completing the web-based Figure 1. Radiation symbol. ch and development
   mission. T T training. The escort is r raining (GER ence Livermor e the
   safety of workers, visitors, and the , GER TRAIN) when this booklet is
   mailed . eas posted with the radiation T may escort untrained workers T
   is r T), is r on beam devices, and accelera- T car e National
   Laboratory (LLNL) equir equir d located at the back of this raining
   (GER ed befor eam health and safety
