http://beadata.bea.doc.gov/bea/ARTICLES/2001/12december/1201plan.pdf

   December 2001 23 BEA's Preliminary Strategic Plan for 20012005 As part
   of a year-long internal review of its mission sented here to reach
   others who have an interest in BEA's and its goals, the Bureau of
   Economic Analysis (BEA) has data. After a period of public review and
   comment, BEA developed a preliminary Strategic Plan that outlines the
   will publish the final version of the plan in the spring of major
   elements of BEA's plan of work through the year 2002. 2005. The
   Strategic Plan, which has a broader focus than You are encouraged to
   submit your comments. Does the Mid-Decade Strategic Review of 6 ½ years
   ago, will the plan address the most important issues? Do you agree
   guide BEA's ongoing efforts to improve the quality, reli- with the
   actions and priorities proposed in the plan? ability, and dissemination
   of its economic accounts. The Please send your comments by January 31,
   2002: By mail plan will be a flexible, "living" document that will be
   to Bureau of Economic Analysis, U.S. Department of reviewed and updated
   annually. Commerce, Washington, DC 20230; by fax to 202606 This
   Strategic Plan has been presented to BEA employ- 5311; or by e-mail to
   comments@bea.doc.gov. ees and to the BEA Advisory Committee, and many
   of J. Steven Landefeld their suggestions have been incorporated. The
   plan is pre- Director, Bureau of Economic Analysis Mission tional
   materials; upgrading the technology used to col- HE Bureau of Economic
   Analysis (BEA) produces lect and disseminate information; and
   redesigning t T economic accounts statistics that enable govern- BEA's
   Web site to provide more explanations, back- ment and business
   decision-makers, researchers, and ground information, searchable links
   to metadata, and the American public to follow and understand the per-
   other interactive features. formance of the Nation's economy. To do
   this, BEA col- lects source data, conducts research and analysis,
   Performance: Performance under goal 1 will be moni- develops and
   implements estimation methodologies, tored by measures such as the
   following: and disseminates statistics to the public. * Customer
   satisfaction with BEA's products and services, as determined by regular
   customer sur- Vision veys; To be the world's most respected producer of
   economic * Number of outreach activities and events; accounts
   statistics. * Number of Web site users. Values Goal 2. Attract,
   develop, and retain a highly qualified, * Integrity: Maintaining the
   sterling reputation of diverse workforce prepared to innovate and
   improve BEA and its statistics. BEA's statistics * Quality: Producing
   accurate, relevant, and timely BEA faces a variety of workplace
   challenges. The Strate- statistics. gic Plan identifies specific
   actions that address such * Staff excellence: Fostering, recognizing,
   and workplace objectives as improving employee retention rewarding
   contributions of employees. and recruitment by more effectively using
   the flexibility * Responsiveness to customers: Providing what of the
   Personnel Management Demonstration Project, they want, when and how
   they want it. by supporting continuous career development for all *
   Innovation: Meeting the challenges of new tech- employees, by aiming
   employee training plans toward nology and the changing economy. future
   workforce needs, and by improving the system for recognizing and
   rewarding employees for their Goals work. Goal 1. Make BEA's economic
   accounts and services Performance: Performance under goal 2 will be
   moni- more responsive to the needs of its customers and tored by
   measures such as the following: partners * Employee satisfaction, as
   determined by regular BEA is concentrating on improving its
   relationships employee surveys; with its customers and partners. The
   Strategic Plan * Employee retention rate; identifies specific actions
   that address such objectives as * Speed of recruitment actions;
   establishing and improving two-way communication * Training program
   milestones met. with customers through regular customer surveys and
   other sources of feedback; expanding outreach efforts to Goal 3.
   Upgrade resource management to support BEA's data users, the Congress,
   trade associations, the busi- strategic goals ness community, and the
   news media through the more Support for the initiatives outlined in the
   Strategic Plan effective use of technology, partnerships, and informa-
   will come from the more effective use of existing 24 G December 2001
   resources (through productivity-enhancing technology mation on its Web
   site and improve the dissemination investments and changes in work
   processes and prod- of information directly to the news media and to
   poten- ucts) and from incremental resources. To manage its tial users
   of BEA's statistics in the business community, resources effectively,
   BEA will have to better account for State and local governments,
   academia, think tanks, the the costs and benefits of existing and
   proposed work. By Administration, and the Congress. Then, armed with
   using new financial accounting support and by stepping cost and benefit
   information for existing and proposed up its interaction with
   customers, the Department, and products, BEA must work with these
   constituencies to statistical agency partners, BEA will more
   effectively develop products and services that meet their needs.
   conduct its programs, allocate resources, and plan for This objective
   will be accomplished by upgrading BEA's the provision of resources to
   achieve the Bureau's goals. public affairs function, by establishing a
   Congressional liaison function, by interacting regularly with BEA's
   Upgrading BEA's financial management.-BEA is devel- customers on their
   needs, and by updating and refocus- oping a cost-based budget for
   existing and proposed ing the Strategic Plan and individual unit plans.
   work that is directly linked to the Bureau's activities. As a result,
   BEA will be better able to identify the costs and Performance:
   Performance under goal 3 will be moni- benefits of its programs for its
   customers, the Adminis- tored by measures such as the following:
   tration, and the Congress as a part of the budget formu- * Upgrading
   financial management-project mile- lation process. Moreover, BEA will
   be better able to stones met; track and manage its existing resources.
   This objective * Investing in IT-project milestones met for IT will be
   accomplished by obtaining the resources for an upgrades; internal
   budget staff, by implementing an activity- * Updating existing
   programs-number of prod- based cost system, and by completing a smooth
   transi- ucts and processes reevaluated; tion of our core financial
   system to the Commerce * Focusing on users' needs-number of outreach
   Department's new Commerce Administrative Manage- activities and events.
   ment System. Goal 4. Upgrade BEA's economic statistics by improving
   Investing in information technology (IT).-BEA's eco- statistical
   methodologies and source data and by using nomic programs require the
   IT support provided by the new technologies Office of the Chief
   Information Officer. Much has been This first version of the Strategic
   Plan identifies statisti- accomplished to enhance BEA's IT
   infrastructure, espe- cal program priorities for FY 2001 through FY
   2005. cially the establishment of a stable local area network These
   priorities are summarized below by economic with strong backup
   capabilities for BEA systems, but account, followed by an
   across-the-board review of significant work remains in the redesign of
   critical esti- source data improvements. mation systems. The Strategic
   Plan emphasizes four areas in which further IT investment is needed:
   (1) National accounts.-BEA produces the national Continuing support of
   BEA program staff with more income and product accounts (NIPA's),
   including the efficient IT tools (software) to enhance their perfor-
   estimates of gross domestic product (GDP), monthly mance, (2) ongoing
   upgrades of the IT infrastructure personal income and outlays, and
   stocks of fixed assets (servers, workstations, telephones) to ensure
   reliability and consumer durable goods. The Strategic Plan identi- and
   security, (3) redesigning of core estimation systems fies the following
   areas for improvement. to maximize the use of database technologies,
   and (4) harnessing of rapidly developing Web-based technolo- Improving
   processing systems.-The estimation of GDP gies to improve data
   dissemination. can be made more reliable, efficient, and flexible
   through a comprehensive effort to improve the under- Updating and
   better focusing existing programs.-Meet- lying processing systems. The
   Strategic Plan identifies ing customer needs and working to better
   focus BEA's actions such as the creation of a new central system to
   resources require a continuing reevaluation and replace the two
   outdated and overburdened systems improvement of products and work
   processes. This now in use, the replacement of the time-series database
   effort includes examining internal work processes and software used by
   analysts to prepare the estimates, and determining whether resources
   are devoted to the high- the overhaul of estimation subsystems. Special
   attention est priorities. This evaluation will be accomplished by will
   be paid to good programming practices, including annual bottom-up
   reviews of work processes, with documentation of requirements and
   programs, thor- changes incorporated in annual updates of the Strategic
   ough testing prior to implementation, and use of mod- Plan and of unit
   and individual work plans. ern standards and best practices. Focusing
   BEA's products and services to meet the needs of Addressing data gaps
   and other shortcomings.-The businesses, policymakers, and
   households.-To make sure overall quality of the NIPA estimates is very
   high, but that its existing statistical products are used effectively,
   the quality is jeopardized by several gaps resulting from BEA must
   provide expanded and more accessible infor- inadequate source data or
   from recent changes in the December 2001 G 25 economic environment. In
   addition, there are long- Closing data gaps in the accounts.-A number
   of the ini- standing measurement problems, such as quality tiatives
   pertain to closing data gaps that have recently adjustments of prices
   and the measurement of services. developed. One initiative addresses
   the potential under- A systematic plan to minimize these problems will
   reporting of U.S. goods trade, while others would allevi- improve the
   quality and usefulness of the national ate the data gaps in
   international services by developing accounts. The Strategic Plan
   identifies specific actions more frequent (quarterly instead of annual)
   surveys of that address such needs as implementing the North
   unaffiliated services and by broadening the coverage of American
   Industry Classification System, developing existing surveys. Additional
   initiatives focus on closing new quality-adjusted prices, developing
   improved mea- gaps in the measurement of financial flows, such as sures
   of services, developing improved estimates of soft- those stemming from
   transactions involving derivatives ware investment, and conducting
   research on and and other types of short-term financial instruments,
   developing better estimates of employee stock options reverse or short
   transactions, and transactions in tradi- and other components of
   income. tional instruments that now bypass the international capital
   reporting system. Improving consistency and integration with other
   accounts.-In order to assemble an overall picture of Improving
   consistency with international standards.-In the economy, many users
   want to move seamlessly not general, BEA's international accounts are
   highly consis- only among BEA's accounts but also between them and tent
   with international standards; in fact, BEA has the Federal Reserve's
   flow-of-funds accounts and the played a lead role in carrying out the
   conceptual work Bureau of Labor Statistics' productivity accounts. Such
   necessary to establish many of the standards. However, comparisons are
   now impeded by inconsistencies in international standards are
   continually evolving and definitions and presentation. Several elements
   of the expanding, and in some areas-such as insurance ser- Strategic
   Plan are designed to facilitate those compari- vices-BEA's
   methodologies probably could be sons and provide more useful
   information by improv- improved. Proposed initiatives would enable BEA
   to ing the consistency, coherence, and presentation of the keep abreast
   of the changing standards and to comply accounts. more fully with
   existing standards. Improving consistency with international
   standards.- Industry accounts.-BEA produces economic statistics
   International guidelines for national economic on industries, including
   the input-output (I-O) accounts generally reflect best practices, and
   BEA's esti- accounts, the GDP-by-industry accounts, and occa- mates of
   major aggregates, such as GDP, are largely con- sional satellite
   accounts. The I-O account benchmarks sistent with international
   guidelines and are an example underpin the NIPA and other account
   benchmarks. The of best practices. However, the Strategic Plan
   identifies Strategic Plan focuses on completing the 1997 bench- several
   areas where BEA could improve the estimation, mark I-O accounts by late
   2002, thereby meeting a presentation, and usefulness of its national
   accounts by commitment to produce the benchmark accounts more fully
   adopting the recommendations contained in within 5 years of the
   reference year. The plan also the international guidelines. includes
   the following new elements that will provide customers with more useful
   industry statistics. International accounts.-BEA produces the balance
   of payments and international investment accounts, as Accelerating
   annual industry data.-Research will be well as financial and operating
   data on multinational directed toward reducing the time lag for the
   release of companies. The Strategic Plan addresses efforts to the
   annual I-O accounts (from 3 years down to 1 year improve productivity
   or outputs in the existing areas of after the reference year) and the
   annual GDP-by-indus- work and to improve coverage in areas where major
   try estimates (from 11 months down to 4 months after gaps have recently
   appeared. the reference year). Improving productivity or outputs in
   existing areas of Reconciling and improving the consistency of industry
   work.-Several initiatives are designed to enable BEA to estimates.-This
   element will be directed toward do more with less. For example,
   increased investment in reviewing and partially reconciling the
   value-added IT infrastructure will enable BEA to expand electronic
   estimates from the 1997 benchmark I-O accounts and data collection and
   dissemination and to improve the GDP-by-industry accounts to bring
   those estimates into usefulness of the international accounts section
   of its closer alignment and developing approaches to improve Web site.
   BEA will conduct research on implementing the consistency of the I-O,
   GDP-by-industry, and gross new sampling and imputation techniques that
   would state product (GSP) estimates. reduce the resources required to
   estimate data for rela- tively small companies that now must report in
   BEA Improving estimating methods and processing systems surveys. In
   addition, BEA must improve the usefulness and interfaces.-This element
   will focus on improving of its estimates of international trade in
   goods and ser- estimating methodologies, designing and developing vices
   by accelerating their release. interactive software tools for accessing
   data, expanding 26 G December 2001 integrated software applications to
   produce industry concept to cover all types of earnings, including
   estimates, and developing processing systems to employee stock options,
   and benchmarking the earn- improve efficiency. ings data to the BLS
   Covered Employment and Wages (ES202) program. For its national
   accounts, BEA will Regional accounts.-BEA produces estimates of quar-
   work with BLS to improve the Producer Price Index terly and annual
   State personal income, annual county program to provide
   quality-adjusted price indexes for and metropolitan area personal
   income, annual GSP, high-tech goods and to continue expanding the
   cover- wages and employment in varying degrees of detail by age of
   financial and nonfinancial services and of non- industry for each area,
   and regional input-output mul- residential construction. tipliers. The
   Strategic Plan identifies the following areas for improvement. Bureau
   of the Census data.-For its industry and national accounts, BEA needs
   better and more timely Accelerating the release of regional
   estimates.-This data on the intermediate outputs of industries. The
   project would provide the users of regional data with international
   accounts need improved data on exports dramatically earlier access to
   these estimates. For exam- and imports of goods. The regional accounts
   stand to ple, the time lag for the release of GSP estimates would
   benefit greatly from the new American Community be reduced from 18
   months down to 5 months after the Survey, which (if funded) would
   provide more frequent reference year. Similar accelerations would be
   achieved data on variables now collected only in the Decennial for
   metropolitan and local area personal income. Census. Continually
   improving methodologies.-The methodol- Department of the Treasury
   data.-BEA's international ogies used to produce the regional estimates
   must be accounts need expanded coverage of the Treasury Inter- updated
   and improved to keep pace with changes in the national Capital
   reporting system to include derivatives national and regional
   economies. Topics that need to be and improved coverage of short
   positions and cross- addressed are the estimation of stock options on a
   border holdings of securities. In the national accounts, regional basis
   and the redefinition of the BEA Eco- the measurement of business income
   could be nomic Areas to reflect new metropolitan area defini- improved
   by working with the IRS to update measures tions. of voluntary taxpayer
   compliance. The regional accounts could investigate IRS data to develop
   estimates Improving source data.-In order to improve the quality of
   State capital stocks for nonmanufacturing firms. of the regional
   estimates, it is necessary to identify, develop, and implement new and
   more appropriate BEA international transactions data.-For the interna-
   source data. For example, new source data would be tional services data
   collected in BEA's surveys, the big- needed to develop estimates of
   capital stocks by State. gest improvement would come from instituting
   quarterly surveys of international transactions in the Source data
   improvement.-BEA obtains most of its most important services.
   Currently, only annual surveys source data from other Federal
   Government agencies are conducted for most types of unaffiliated
   services primarily the Bureau of the Census, the Bureau of
   transactions. Labor Statistics (BLS), and the Department of the Trea-
   sury, especially the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Performance:
   Performance under goal 4 will be moni- Therefore, it is imperative that
   BEA staff at all levels tored by measures such as the following: work
   with their colleagues in those agencies to upgrade * Number of
   statistical improvement milestones the economic accounts by improving
   the relevance, met; quality, and timeliness of existing source data, by
   iden- * Cycle time for production of major estimates and tifying
   untapped but potentially useful existing data, other statistical
   outputs; and by developing new data. * Resource requirements for
   production of major The following key data sources are the focal points
   of estimates and other statistical outputs; BEA's efforts to work with
   its partner agencies to * Number of meetings with key source data
   provid- improve source data for the economic accounts. (Many ers. of
   these improvements are also mentioned in the list- ings of the various
   BEA program areas.) Additional Detail The following table, organized by
   program area, sum- Bureau of Labor Statistics data.-BLS employment and
   marizes the elements of the plan and provides mile- price data are
   essential ingredients of BEA's economic stones through FY 2005. The
   plan will be updated in FY accounts. To improve its national, industry,
   and 2002 to add milestones for FY 2006. The activities listed regional
   accounts, BEA will work with BLS to expand in the table and the timing
   of the milestones are based on their Current Employment Statistics (790
   program) to the assumption that BEA will receive adequate budget cover
   earnings of all employees. BEA will also work with funding for each of
   those years. BLS to explore expanding the coverage of the earnings
   December 2001 G 27 NATIONAL INCOME, EXPENDITURE, AND WEALTH ACCOUNTS
   Programs and New Initiatives: FY 20012005 Programs 2001 2002 2003 2004
   2005 Prepared quarterly and annual Prepare quarterly estimates of
   Prepare quarterly and 2003 National Income and Product estimates of GDP
   and NIPA Prepare quarterly and annual GDP tables; begin 2003
   comprehensive revision Prepare quarterly and annual Accounts (NIPA)
   Estimates tables; published NIPA estimates of GDP and NIPA
   comprehensive revision estimates of GDP and NIPA estimates of GDP and
   NIPA volumes. tables. estimates. tables. tables; publish NIPA volumes.
   Prepare monthly estimates of Prepare monthly and 2003 Monthly Personal
   Income and Prepared monthly estimates of Prepare monthly estimates of
   personal income and outlays; comprehensive revision Prepare monthly
   estimates of Outlays personal income and outlays. personal income and
   outlays. begin 2003 comprehensive estimates of personal income personal
   income and outlays. revision estimates. and outlays. Prepared annual
   estimates of Prepare annual estimates of Prepare annual estimates of
   Prepare annual and 2003 Prepare annual estimates of Fixed Assets and
   Consumer fixed assets and consumer fixed assets and consumer fixed
   assets and consumer comprehensive revision fixed assets and consumer
   Durable Goods durable goods; released 1999 durable goods; begin 2003
   comprehensive revision durable goods; publish Fixed comprehensive
   revision estimates of fixed assets and durable goods; publish Fixed
   estimates. Assets volume. estimates. consumer durable goods. Assets
   volume. Prepared NIPA estimates based on 1999 comprehensive revision
   consistent with new Update NIPA estimates Update NIPA estimates Prepare
   NIPA estimates based on 2003 comprehensive Update NIPA estimates
   International Submissions 1993 System of National consistent with 1993
   SNA for consistent with 1993 SNA for consistent with 1993 SNA for
   Accounts (SNA) for OECD. OECD. Prepare GFS for OECD. Prepare GFS for
   revision consistent with 1993 OECD. Prepare GFS for Prepared Government
   Finance Treasury to submit to IMF. Treasury to submit to IMF. SNA for
   OECD. Prepare GFS Treasury to submit to IMF. Statistics (GFS) for
   Treasury to for Treasury to submit to IMF. submit to IMF. Prepare
   estimates and update Prepare estimates and introduce NIH Research &
   Development Prepared estimates of R&D weights of R&D biomedical Prepare
   estimates of R&D Prepare estimates of R&D chain weighting of R&D (R&D)
   Biomedical Price Index biomedical price index for NIH biomedical price
   index for NIH biomedical price index for NIH under reimbursable
   contract. price index for NIH under biomedical price index for NIH
   reimbursable contract. under reimbursable contract. under reimbursable
   contract. under reimbursable contract. Economic Accounts Training
   Prepared and conducted Prepare and conduct training in Prepare and
   conduct training in Prepare and conduct training in Prepare and conduct
   training in Program training in economic accounts. economic accounts.
   economic accounts. economic accounts. economic accounts. New
   Initiatives Converted inventory estimates Prepare wage and salary
   Prepare for conversions Implement North American to NAICS basis;
   estimated estimates with NAICS source Prepare for conversion of all
   Publish comprehensive revision associated with NAICS 2002, Industry
   Classification System personal consumption data, which will be
   converted to income-side estimates to estimates on a NAICS basis; NAICS
   2007, and North (NAICS) expenditures (PCE) and NAICS basis in
   comprehensive convert PPI source data from investment in equipment with
   a Standard Industrial revision. SIC to NAICS basis. American Product
   NAICS source data. Classification (SIC) basis. Classification System.
   Prepared functional Begin second phase, developing NIPA Central System
   requirements for new central Develop and program first Test and
   implement the first enhancements for new central Test and implement the
   second Modernization system (joint with CSSD, phase of new central
   system phase of the new central system system (joint with CSSD, phase
   (joint with CSSD, contractor). (joint with CSSD, contractor). (joint
   with CSSD, contractor). contractor). contractor). Completed joint paper
   with Publish paper and present it at Alternative Measures of Saving
   Federal Reserve Board staff on conferences; prepare regular Update the
   measures. Update the measures. Update the measures. alternative
   measures of saving. updates of measures. Developed tool to provide
   Extend tool to provide tables for selected, annual, and 3-digit fixed
   assets and consumer Interactive Web Data Access NIPA tables
   interactively on durable goods and for Complete Web data access Web
   (joint with CSSD, underlying detail (joint with project. contractor).
   CSSD, contractor). Began work to automate the Complete work to automate
   the Convert Table Generation generation of tables for news generation
   of tables for news Complete automation of release and Survey (joint
   with release and Survey (joint with remaining tables. CSSD and CBAD).
   CSSD and CBAD). Conduct research and develop new quality-adjusted
   prices. Conduct research and develop New Quality-Adjusted Prices
   Introduced improved prices for Conduct research and develop Submit
   proposals for prices of new quality-adjusted prices. If Conduct
   research and develop local area network equipment. new quality-adjusted
   prices. nonresidential structures, proposals are accepted, publish new
   quality-adjusted prices. photocopy equipment, and revised estimates.
   other selected prices. Conduct research and develop Conducted research
   and new measures of services. Conduct research and develop Conduct
   research and develop Improved Services Measures developed new measures
   of Submit proposals for new new measures of services. If new measures
   of services. Conduct research and develop services. measures of
   insurance and proposals are accepted, prepare Publish revised
   estimates. new measures of services. other selected services.
   estimates. Improved Estimates of Software Developed and introduced
   Review and improve Conduct research and develop Conduct research and
   develop Conduct research and develop Investment improved quarterly
   software benchmark estimation of improved measures of foreign
   estimation method. software. improved software prices. improved
   software prices. transactions in software. Conduct research and develop
   Conduct research and develop Conduct research and develop Conduct
   research and develop Employee Stock Options Conduct research on
   employee conceptual framework for stock options. measuring employee
   stock estimating methodology for source data for employee stock
   estimates for employee stock options. employee stock options. options.
   options. Began re-engineering of system Federal Investment and for
   Federal Government Complete database design and Complete, test, and
   implement Consumption System investment and consumption user interface.
   Begin testing. system before the end of estimates. December 2002. 28 G
   December 2001 NATIONAL INCOME, EXPENDITURE, AND WEALTH
   ACCOUNTS-Continued Programs and New Initiatives: FY 20012005 Programs
   2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 Researched possible sources of Research on
   possible sources of Research on possible sources of Research on
   possible sources of Research on possible sources of Research
   Statistical Discrepancy statistical discrepancy; improved estimate of
   GDP and statistical discrepancy; improve statistical discrepancy;
   improve statistical disrepancy; improve statistical discrepancy;
   improve gross domestic income (GDI). estimates of GDP and GDI.
   estimates of GDP and GDI. estimates of GDP and GDI. estimates of GDP
   and GDI. Convert Time Series Package to Prepare requirement to convert
   Complete pre-revision Prepare post-revision Complete all revision
   "Fame" analysts' "satellite" systems to conversions, testing, and
   conversions, testing, and Fame. Begin conversion. implementation.
   conversions. implementation. Contract with Census Bureau to conduct
   Current Population Contract with Census Bureau to Survey (CPS) exact
   match study Work with IRS to update Work with IRS to update conduct CPS
   exact match study Misreporting Adjustments of taxpayer misreporting and
   measures of voluntary taxpayer measures of voluntary taxpayer of
   taxpayer misreporting and work with IRS to update compliance.
   compliance. work with IRS to update measures of voluntary taxpayer
   measures of voluntary taxpayer compliance. compliance. Complete updated
   Completed updated methodology papers for Update methodology paper for
   Methodology Papers methodology paper for government, foreign Update
   methodology papers. PCE. New methodology papers Annual updates of all
   corporate profits. transactions, and new paper for for other
   components. methodology papers. fixed investment. Reengineer Private
   Capital Stock Develop requirements and Estimates rewrite programs. Test
   and implement programs. Reengineer Government Capital Develop
   requirements and Stock Estimates rewrite programs. Test and implement
   programs. Revise Tables to Deemphasize Publish redesigned tables as
   Chained Dollars Begin table redesign. Implement table redesign. part of
   2003 comprehensive revision. Recognize Government and Prepare proposal
   to recognize Implement proposal to Publish revised estimates of
   Nonprofit Output output. recognize output. GDP by type of product. Work
   on development of Real Government and Nonprofit- Develop simplified
   annual real Implement simplified real refinements and quarterly real
   Work on development of by-Function Estimates government-by-function
   government- by-function nonprofit-by-function estimates. estimates.
   government-by-function estimates. estimates. Research to Revise Summary
   Conduct research and prepare If accepted, implement Publish revised
   summary Accounts proposal to revise summary proposal to revise summary
   accounts. accounts. accounts. Conducted research on Conduct research on
   Conduct research on Prepare proposals to modernize Research Sector
   Definitions government enterprises and government enterprises and
   government enterprises and sector definitions of other sector issues.
   other sector issues. other sector issues. government enterprises and
   noncorporate business. Research Flow-of-Funds Conducted research on
   Conduct research on Publish preliminary attempt to Continue research on
   Publish improved integrated Integration integrating NIPA's with
   flow-of- integrating NIPA's with flow-of- consolidate NIPA's with flow-
   integrating NIPA's with flow-of- funds accounts. funds accounts.
   of-funds accounts. funds accounts. accounts. Research on Compensation
   in Work with BLS to research new Consider proposals based on Kind forms
   of fringe benefits, such as research. If accepted, cafeteria plans.
   implement proposals. Develop new tables to show Research on Nonprofit
   Sector Conduct research on status of Conduct additional research to
   Publish prototype nonprofit separate nonprofit accounts. nonprofit
   expenditures and economic activity. fill gaps in nonprofit accounts.
   accounts. Research on Chain Inventories Wrote and presented research If
   proposal is accepted, Publish revised estimates of Method paper on
   chain inventories Refine paper, prepare proposal. implement proposal
   for chain method. inventories method. inventories. Worked with Chief
   Economist Publish revised estimates of Improve Capital Stock Estimates
   to investigate service lives and Prepare proposals for If proposals are
   accepted, capital stock. Develop new Conduct research on capital other
   capital stock issues. comprehensive revision. implement proposals.
   research projects. stock issues. Interactive User-Defined Chain Prepare
   requirements and write Aggregates programs for user-defined Test and
   implement programs. chain aggregates. Work with IED to investigate If
   feasible, submit proposal to If accepted, implement Research Sector
   Gross Output feasibility of timely estimates of prepare estimates of
   sector proposal and publish estimates gross output by sector. gross
   output. of sector gross output. Research NIPA/International Conduct
   study of differences; If accepted, implement Transactions Accounts
   (ITA's) prepare proposals as proposals to resolve differences Publish
   revised estimates. Differences appropriate. between NIPA's and ITA's.
   Worked with Regional Work with Regional Directorate If research is
   accepted, prepare Research estimates of Develop improved estimates of
   Research Pension Benefits Directorate to research to research
   accounting for and submit proposal for employers' contributions to
   employers' contributions to accounting for pension benefits. pension
   benefits. changes in comprehensive revision. deferred compensation
   plans. deferred compensation plans. Conduct research on feasibility of
   moving some estimates (for If research is accepted, prepare Research
   Accrual Accounting example wages, personal taxes) and submit proposal
   for Publish revised estimates. to accrual basis. Coordinate changes in
   comprehensive with regional programs. revision. December 2001 G 29
   NATIONAL INCOME, EXPENDITURE, AND WEALTH ACCOUNTS-Continued Programs
   and New Initiatives: FY 20012005 Programs 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
   Conduct research on redefining government inventories as part Research
   Government Inventories of gross investment; prepare If proposal is
   accepted, prepare proposal for comprehensive revised estimates. Publish
   revised estimates. revision. Conducted research on Research Separate
   State and Local preparing separate estimates for Prepare SURVEY article
   to report Government Estimates State governments and for local
   estimates. Coordinate with governments. regional program. Research on
   Reconciling Estimates Conduct research on If research finds
   inconsistencies, of Defense Equipment and consistency of timing for
   prepare proposal to improve Change in Private Inventories estimates of
   defense equipment and private inventories. estimates. Conduct research
   on PCE product and type-of- Research on PCE Classifications expenditure
   classifications Conclude research and prepare relative to other
   government recommendations. and international classifications. Research
   on Motor Vehicle Conduct research toward Conclude research and prepare
   Estimates improving motor vehicle estimates. recommendations. Purchase
   scanner data for Prepare proposal for Scanner Data for PCE improved,
   timelier estimates of Research scanner data and implementing scanner
   data- If proposal is accepted, prepare merchandise composition. compile
   prototype estimates. based estimates. and publish estimates. Conduct
   research on Research Capitalization of Movies, recognizing production
   of Sound Recordings motion pictures and sound recordings as fixed
   investment. Research Construction in Progress Conduct research on
   classifying as Change in Inventories construction in progress as change
   in inventories. Research Production Account and Conduct research on
   measuring Continue research on Capital Inputs capital inputs as part of
   a measuring capital inputs as part production account. of a production
   account. Work with Chief Economist to Research Consumer Durables
   conduct research on Conduct research on Satellite Account implementing
   a satellite implementing a satellite account. account. Research
   Imputing Rental Price for Prepare short paper looking at Conduct
   research on Prepare proposal and outline Government Capital imputing a
   rate of return for imputation of a rate of return work for imputing
   rental price government capital. for government capital. for government
   capital. 30 G December 2001 INDUSTRY ACCOUNTS Programs and New
   Initiatives: FY 20012005 Programs 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 Review
   estimates for 1997 Benchmark I-O Accounts and Publish detailed data and
   Benchmark Input-Output (I-O) Initial estimates completed for reconcile
   with national documentation for the 1997 See Benchmark I-O with less
   See Benchmark I-O with less Accounts 1997 Benchmark I-O tables on
   Benchmark I-O Accounts; a NAICS basis. accounts and balance of detailed
   data below. detailed data below. payments accounts; publish prepare and
   publish the 1997 1997 Benchmark I-O tables. Capital Flow tables.
   Publish GDP-by-Industry Publish revised GDP-by- Publish GDP-by-Industry
   Accounts for 2001; prepare Industry Accounts consistent Publish
   GDP-by-Industry GDP-by-Industry Accounts Estimates completed for GDP-
   Accounts for 2000; prepare revised GDP-by-Industry with 1997 Benchmark
   I-O and Accounts for 2003; prepare by-Industry Accounts for 2000.
   GDP-by-Industry Accounts for Accounts consistent with 1997 revised
   NIPA's, 1947-2002; GDP-by-Industry Accounts for 2001. Benchmark I-O and
   revised prepare GDP- by-Industry 2004. NIPA's for 2002. Accounts for
   2003. Publish Annual I-O Accounts Publish NAICS-based Annual I- Publish
   Annual I-O Accounts for 1999; revise Annual I-O O Accounts for 2000,
   consistent Publish Annual I-O Accounts Annual I-O Accounts Estimates
   completed for Annual with 1997 Benchmark I-O I-O Accounts for 1998. for
   1998; prepare estimates for framework to be consistent for 2001;
   prepare estimates for 1999 Annual I-O Accounts. with 1997 Benchmark I-O
   Accounts and revised NIPA's; 2002 Annual I-O Accounts. Accounts and
   revised NIPA's. prepare estimates for 2001 Annual I-O Accounts.
   Software developed and 1998 Develop software and revise Convert
   19992001 source data data files for annual programs Implement NAICS
   2000 source data converted from NAICS to SIC basis for use from NAICS
   to SIC basis for use to NAICS-based source data; in annual programs. in
   annual programs. prepare for conversion to NAICS in public data files.
   Estimates prepared for monthly Prepare monthly estimates of Prepare
   monthly estimates of merchandise exports and merchandise exports and
   merchandise exports and Prepare monthly estimates of Prepare monthly
   estimates of merchandise exports and merchandise exports and Foreign
   Trade Estimates imports; concordance imports; begin conversion of
   imports; complete conversion maintained between concordance between HS
   and I- of concordance between HS and imports; maintain concordance
   imports; maintain concordance Harmonized System (HS) and O
   classifications from SIC to I-O classifications to a NAICS between HS
   and I-O between HS and I-O I-O classifications. NAICS basis. basis.
   classifications. classifications. Estimates completed for SNA- Prepare
   SNA-based, GDP-by- Prepare SNA-based, GDP-by- Develop procedures and
   Prepare SNA-based, GDP-by- International Submissions based,
   GDP-by-Industry Industry Accounts for 1998 Industry Accounts for 1999
   software to prepare SNA-based, Industry Accounts consistent Accounts
   for 198799. 2000. 2001. GDP-by- Industry Accounts on with the
   comprehensive a NAICS basis. revision of the Accounts. Release expanded
   software with Enhanced software designed new analytical tools for and
   developed for accessing I-O Release new software for accessing and
   manipulating I-O data interactively from BEA accessing I-O data
   interactively Prepare modifications of from BEA Web site; design and
   data from BEA Web site; modify benchmark I-O production Complete
   modifications to IT Re-engineering Web site; additional software
   further the web-based system to developed and brought on-line develop
   additional web-based include NAICS-based I-O data; processing system to
   benchmark I-O production for benchmark I-O and GDP- tools for the
   analysis of I-O modify annual I-O and GDP- incorporate data from the
   2002 processing system. by-industry production data; complete benchmark
   I-O by-industry production economic census. processing systems.
   production processing system. processing systems for NAICS- based data.
   New Initiatives Research initiated for the Prepare data files and
   develop Accelerated Annual I-O Accounts accelerated release of Annual
   processing system for Develop pilot set of tables for Publish Annual
   I-O Accounts Publish Annual I-O Accounts I-O Accounts. accelerated
   release of Annual 2001 Annual I-O Accounts. for 2002. for 2003. I-O
   Accounts. Release pilot advance estimates Accelerated GDP-by-Industry
   Research initiated for the of 2001 GDP-by-Industry Publish advance 2002
   GDP-by- Publish advance 2003 GDP-by- Publish advance 2004 GDP-by-
   Accounts accelerated release of GDP-by- Industry Accounts. Accounts in
   April (4 months Industry Accounts. Industry Accounts. Industry
   Accounts. from end of year). Research initiated, in Coordinate with the
   Regional Coordinate with the Regional Accelerated Gross State Product
   coordination with the Regional program on the development of program on
   the (GSP) Accounts program, for the accelerated software needed for the
   implementation of accelerated release of GSP Accounts. accelerated
   release of GSP Accounts. release of GSP Accounts. Coordinate with NIWD
   on the Coordinate with NIWD on the Improved Gross Output for Coordinate
   with NIWD on the preparation of short papers implementation of Selected
   Services (GDP-by- identification and prioritization describing
   potential improvements to measures of Industry) of service areas
   needing improvement. improvements to the services output, prices, and
   quantities areas. for selected services. Coordinate with NIWD on the
   Coordinate with NIWD on Improved Nonprofit Estimates preparation of a
   research research to show nonprofit Coordinate with NIWD on Coordinate
   with NIWD on (Benchmark I-O Accounts) proposal to determine the status
   expenditures and economic research to fill gaps in nonprofit preparing
   prototype nonprofit of separate nonprofit accounts. activities.
   accounts. accounts. December 2001 G 31 INDUSTRY ACCOUNTS-Continued
   Programs and New Initiatives: FY 20012005 Programs 2001 2002 2003 2004
   2005 Conduct research on ways to Evaluate alternative proposals
   Investigate and Implement simplify production of for simplifying
   production of Method to Produce Benchmark Benchmark I-O Accounts and
   Benchmark I-O Accounts and I-O Accounts with Less Detailed to increase
   efficient use of increasing efficient use of Data source data; work to
   be source data; implement contracted. recommendations. Prepare
   requirements analysis Test and implement the new Re-engineering for
   Data Transfer for direct transfer of economic process for transferring
   Between Census and BEA data between Census and IED, economic data from
   Census to using standardized coding and IED, using standardized coding
   formats. and formats. Bring estimates of value added Evaluate remaining
   differences from the I-O and GDP-by- between value added from the
   Review and Partially Reconcile Industry Accounts into closer I-O
   Accounts and GDP-by- Industry Value Added for 1997 alignment; as part
   of final Industry Accounts; compare Benchmark I-O GDP-by- review of
   1997 Benchmark I-O data on compensation from Industry Accounts
   Accounts, compare with BLS and Census; conduct estimates from GDP by
   research on other differences; Industry. document findings and make
   recommendations. Coordinate with the Regional program to identify
   differences Conduct research to improve consistency of industry gross
   Implement recommendations Improved Consistency of I-O, in data sources,
   estimating output and value added for improving consistency of
   GDP-by-Industry, and GSP methods, definitions, and estimates from the
   I-O, GDP- industry gross output and value Estimates classification
   conventions that added estimates from the I-O, result in
   inconsistencies of by-Industry, and GSP Accounts; GDP-by-Industry, and
   GSP estimates from the I-O, GDP- document findings and make Accounts.
   by-Industry, and GSP Accounts. recommendations. Initiate work to recast
   1992 Complete work to recast 1992 Benchmark I-O Accounts from Benchmark
   I-O Accounts from NAICS-Based 1992 Benchmark SIC to NAICS basis to give
   users SIC to NAICS basis to give users I-O Accounts means to produce
   time series; means to produce time series; research and implementation
   to research and implementation to be supported by contractor. be
   supported by contractor. Backcast GDP-by-Industry NAICS-Based
   GDP-by-Industry Accounts, 199299, from SIC to Accounts, 199299 NAICS;
   research and implementation to be supported by contractor. Complete
   research to validate Initiate research to evaluate the Conduct research
   to validate or or improve methods Review and Research to Improve
   quality of the estimating rules improve methods determined determined
   to have a significant Legacy Estimating Rules Used used to prepare the
   Benchmark to have a significant impact on impact on accuracy of the
   Implement recommendations. for Benchmark I-O Accounts I-O Accounts;
   prioritize areas accuracy of the accounts; accounts; complete the for
   additional research. prepare short papers on preparation of short
   papers on findings. findings; make recommendations. Work with the Chief
   Economist to identify and reconcile differences between BEA and With
   the Chief Economist, Work with the Chief Economist BLS measures of
   nominal and Work with the Chief Economist Work with the Chief Economist
   Review and Reconcile Gross initiated research to identify to identify
   differences between real gross output of to prepare short papers that
   to prepare short papers that Output with Comparable BLS differences
   between BEA and BEA and BLS measures of manufacturing and document and
   explain the document and explain the Measures BLS measures of nominal
   and nominal and real gross output nonmanufacturing industries; major
   differences between major differences between real gross output of of
   nonmanufacturing prepare short papers that manufacturing and
   manufacturing and nonmanufacturing industries. industries. document and
   explain the nonmanufacturing measures. nonmanufacturing measures. major
   differences between manufacturing and nonmanufacturing measures.
   Dependent upon the Dependent upon external Dependent upon external
   Dependent upon external Travel and Tourism Satellite With external
   funding, continuation of external funding, produce Travel and funding,
   produce Travel and funding, produce Travel and Accounts and E-commerce
   completed research to improve funding, produce Travel and Tourism
   Satellite Accounts; Tourism Satellite Accounts; Tourism Satellite
   Accounts; Satellite Account estimation of Travel and Tourism Satellite
   Accounts; Tourism Satellite Accounts. investigate support for
   investigate support for investigate support for investigate support for
   e-commerce accounts. e-commerce accounts. e-commerce accounts.
   e-commerce accounts. 32 G December 2001 INTERNATIONAL ACCOUNTS Programs
   and New Initiatives: FY 20012005 Programs 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005
   Balance of Payments (BOP) Prepared estimates for the BOP Prepare
   estimates for the BOP Prepare estimates for the BOP Prepare estimates
   for the BOP Prepare estimates for the BOP Accounts accounts. accounts.
   accounts. accounts. accounts. International Investment Position
   Prepared annual estimates of Prepare annual estimates of the Prepare
   annual estimates of the Prepare annual estimates of the Prepare annual
   estimates of the (IIP) Estimates the IIP. IIP. IIP. IIP. IIP. Benchmark
   and Annual Financial and Operating (F&O) Data Prepared F&O estimates.
   Prepare F&O estimates. Prepare F&O estimates. Prepare F&O estimates.
   Prepare F&O estimates. Analyses and Articles Prepared standard and
   special Prepare standard and special Prepare standard and special
   Prepare standard and special Prepare standard and special articles and
   analyses. articles and analyses. articles and analyses. articles and
   analyses. articles and analyses. New Initiatives Conduct additional
   research Collaborate with Census Research Understatement of Conducted
   research into and determine feasibility of Bureau on whether to extend
   If the decision is to implement a Goods Trade Estimates and existence
   of undercounts in developing an adjustment for the NIPA bias adjustment
   (if bias adjustment to the goods Continue to make bias Develop Bias
   Adjustments reported imports or exports. NIPA (but not for BOP) made)
   to the goods and services and services release, implement adjustments,
   if appropriate. purposes. release. it this year. Begin issuing the
   joint monthly Perform research into Work with Census to develop press
   release on an accelerated Continue issuing the monthly Accelerate
   Monthly Estimates of With Census cooperation, developing accelerated
   methods of filling any "holes" basis. Monitor revisions in the release
   on an accelerated basis, U.S. Trade in Goods and developed an
   implementation estimation methods for direct in the goods estimates
   (possibly services estimates, and, where and continue performing any
   Services plan and schedule. investment and unaffiliated including goods
   exports to the estimates are weakest, needed research into improving
   services. Canada) that may hinder acceleration. perform research into
   the accelerated estimates. improving them. Worked with members of the
   Continue to conduct the Continue to conduct the Derivatives Treasury
   international capital (TIC) user group to design a Clear the survey
   through OMB. Conduct the quarterly survey. quarterly survey, and
   include quarterly survey, and include quarterly survey. the data in the
   BOP accounts. the data in the BOP accounts. Publish NAICS-based
   estimates for position and flows for Publish NAICS-based estimates
   Foreign direct investment in the from annual survey of USDIA; Publish
   NAICS-based estimates Incorporate NAICS 2002 NAICS United States
   (FDIUS); and for incorporate NAICS 2002 for position and flows for
   revisions in USDIA operations operations data from 1999 revisions in
   FDIUS operations USDIA. data. benchmark survey of U.S. direct data.
   investment abroad (USDIA). For BPD, complete development of Web site.
   For For direct investment, complete For BPD, began development of
   direct investment data, redesign development of Web site; For direct
   investment data, Review and re-evaluate Web Improve Web Site Web sites
   for all BOP data user interface of Web page; continue re-engineering of
   table complete re-engineering of site, to ensure it effectively series.
   begin re-engineering of table production system and table production
   system and meets users' needs. production system and reformatting of
   historical data. reformatting of historical data. reformatting of
   historical data. Investigate feasibility of using If feasible,
   incorporate stratified If feasible, use stratified Investigate
   feasibility of using Utilize Stratified Sampling stratified sampling in
   annual sampling in design of annual sampling to conduct annual
   stratified sampling in annual survey of FDIUS. survey of FDIUS. survey
   of FDIUS covering 2003. survey of USDIA. December 2001 G 33
   INTERNATIONAL ACCOUNTS-Continued Programs and New Initiatives: FY
   20012005 Programs 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 Design quarterly services
   survey Clear new and redesigned Continue to conduct quarterly Implement
   quarterly services services survey; consider Quarterly Services Surveys
   and redesign annual services surveys; develop estimation surveys to be
   integrated with routines and processing systems survey in the first
   quarter of expanding quarterly coverage to quarterly survey. for
   quarterly surveys. 2004. additional categories of services. Incorporate
   into accounts Add short-term financial Continue incorporating the
   Improve Estimates of Short-Term Performed research into Add short-term
   financial estimates of short-term instruments to TIC survey of
   estimates of inbound and Financial Instruments feasibility of adding
   short-term instruments to TIC survey of securities liabilities and
   instruments to TIC surveys. securities claims. financial claims from
   TIC outbound short-term survey. incorporate estimates into the
   accounts. instruments in the accounts. Develop estimation routines and
   procedures to incorporate Continue conducting and the results of the
   annual liability incorporating into the accounts Conduct annual
   portfolio Conduct annual portfolio Institute More Frequent Surveys of
   Worked with Treasury to surveys in the accounts. the results of the
   annual liability investment surveys of both investment surveys of both
   Portfolio Investment Assets and develop annual surveys of Continue
   conducting the surveys. Continue working with assets and liabilities
   and assets and liabilities and Liabilities securities liabilities.
   annual liability survey. Work Treasury to design the annual incorporate
   their results into incorporate their results into with Treasury to
   design the asset survey, covering 2003 and the accounts. the accounts.
   annual asset survey that would later years. cover 2003 and later years.
   Reviewed and updated estimation of quarterly direct Review and update
   quarterly Review and update estimation Update Estimation Methods
   investment earnings, with direct investment distributed methods for
   other BOP flow particular attention to earnings. accounts. treatment of
   negative earnings. Redesigned benchmark survey of selected services to
   improve Conduct redesigned benchmark Conduct updated annual Redesign
   benchmark survey of financial services as needed to Conduct redesigned
   benchmark Expand Services Data Collection coverage of the following
   survey; use preliminary results survey; publish final close any gaps
   and ensure survey of financial services; (Excluding Quarterly Surveys)
   categories: Trade-related, to update annual survey to benchmark survey
   results; auxiliary insurance, waste cover important new services,
   continue research on coverage of new services; continue research on
   treatment, e-commerce-related, including e-commerce-related. e-commerce
   transactions. continue research on e-commerce transactions. and other.
   e-commerce transactions. Worked with outside researchers to analyze
   global Prepare an article on U.S. intra- Prepare and publish special
   Prepare and publish special Prepare and publish special expansion
   strategies of U.S. firm trade in goods; extend studies to broaden
   studies to broaden studies to broaden Prepare Additional Special
   Studies firms; undertook analysis of analysis of propensity of foreign
   understanding and extend understanding and extend understanding and
   extend propensity of foreign manufacturing affiliates to analysis of
   data of the analysis of data of the analysis of data of the
   manufacturing affiliates to source inputs from their U.S. International
   Economics International Economics International Economics source inputs
   from their U.S. parents. Directorate. Directorate. Directorate.
   parents. Perform additional research into areas of deviation from
   international standards (focusing on new standards that Develop revised
   estimates of may be emanating from the insurance services based on
   Incorporate revised estimates of Special Data Dissemination Update
   Statistical Methods in Performed research into areas average claims;
   perform
