http://fire.pppl.gov/IPPAfinalrev.pdf

   11/2/00 Report of the Integrated Program Planning Activity for the
   DOE's Fusion Energy Sciences Program November 2000 (Report available at
   website: http://vlt.ucsd.edu/) 1 11/2/00 IPPA REPORT Table of Contents
   Page Number 0.0 Executive Summary 3 1.0 Introduction and Background 6
   2.0 Strategic Framework & Program Integration (Level 1) 8 3.0 FESAC
   Goals, Objectives and Implementation Approaches (Level 2) 23 3.1 MFE
   Goal 1 30 3.2 MFE Goal 2 34 3.3 MFE Goal 3 41 3.4 MFE Goal 4 47 3.5 IFE
   Goal 1 51 3.6 IFE Goal 2 56 4.0 Planning and Implementation (Level 3)
   65 4.1 Program Activities and Categories 65 4.2 Research Activities
   Database 68 Appendices I. IPPA Commissioning Letter & Charter 70 II.
   IPPA Steering Committee & Working Group Membership 73 III. Scientific
   Issues of Fusion Science 74 2 11/2/00 0.0 Executive Summary Fusion is a
   scientific and technological grand challenge whose success depends on
   quality science conducted in a framework of a coherent Integrated
   Program Plan (IPP). In 1996, a strategic plan was developed for the
   restructured Fusion Energy Sciences Program with the overall mission to
   advance plasma science, fusion science and fusion technology-the
   knowledge base needed for an economically and environmentally
   attractive fusion energy source. The purposes of the IPP include: 1.
   produce an integrated program plan for use by the DOE Office of Fusion
   Energy Sciences and the fusion community, including both MFE and IFE,
   and integrating experiments, theory, technology and basic plasma
   science. 2. provide the management of the fusion program at all levels,
   both at DOE and in the field, with improved mechanisms for accessing
   key technical and management information, to achieve better
   communications and performance accountability across the program. 3.
   elucidate and display the inter-connectedness and inter-dependency (the
   critical "connective tissue") which exists among the diverse parts of
   the national fusion energy sciences program, and which is necessary for
   achieving the program goals. Much of the work needed to develop an
   Integrated Program Plan has been completed and forms the basis for this
   report. This includes the following: * The Fusion Energy Sciences
   Advisory Committee's (FESAC) report on "Opportunities in the Fusion
   Energy Sciences Program", June 1999. * The Fusion Energy Sciences
   Advisory Committee's report on "Priorities and Balance within the
   Fusion Energy Sciences Program", September 1999. * The Final Report of
   the Secretary of Energy Advisory Board's (SEAB) Task Force on Fusion
   Energy, August 9, 1999, as transmitted to Secretary Richardson by
   Andrew Athy on September 30, 1999. * The Interim Assessment of the
   National Research Council's Fusion Science Assessment Committee, August
   31, 1999. * The output of the Fusion Community's Fusion Summer Study of
   July 1999. The Integrated Program Plan presented in this report
   consists of three levels of program planning: Level 1 - A top-level
   strategic framework. (Section 2.0) Level 2 - An integrated description
   of goals and objectives leading to an implementation plan with measures
   of progress. (Section 3.0) Level 3 - A structure for detailed,
   integrated planning, utilizing a database which organizes information
   on near-term tasks following from Level 2. Milestones and performing
   institutions to support the implementation approaches are to be
   included. (Introduced and outlined in Section 4.0). 3 11/2/00 Planning
   activities as represented by this document are part of an ongoing
   process. The next step is for FESAC to review this draft report. After
   that review is completed, and taking into account continued
   interactions and feedback with the broader fusion community, this
   report will be completed and sent to DOE's Office of Fusion Energy
   Sciences (OFES). Efforts will continue into FY2001 to implement the
   Level 3 database and, as experience is gained with that process,
   further improvements will be made. The information contained in Level 3
   will be updated annually, whereas the information contained in Level 2
   will be reviewed every two to three years and as part of a continuing
   assessment and update of the fusion program goals. Thus, this document
   is not static but will change in a dynamic fashion as the program
   evolves and responds to innovation and opportunities. The central
   elements in this Integrated Program Plan are the four major Magnetic
   Fusion Energy (MFE) and two major Inertial Fusion Energy (IFE) program
   goals developed in the FESAC Priorities and Balance report: MFE PROGRAM
   GOALS 1. Advance the fundamental understanding of plasma, the fourth
   state of matter, and enhance predictive capabilities, through the
   comparison of well-diagnosed experiments, theory and simulation. 2.
   Resolve outstanding scientific issues and establish reduced-cost paths
   to more attractive fusion energy systems by investigating a broad range
   of innovative magnetic confinement configurations. 3. Advance
   understanding and innovation in high-performance plasmas, optimizing
   for projected power-plant requirements, and participate in a burning
   plasma experiment. 4. Develop enabling technologies to advance fusion
   science; pursue innovative technologies and materials to improve the
   vision for fusion energy; and apply systems analysis to optimize fusion
   development. IFE PROGRAM GOALS 1. Advance the fundamental understanding
   and predictability of high energy density plasmas for IFE, leveraging
   from the ICF target physics work sponsored by the National Nuclear
   Security Agency's Office of Defense Programs. 2. Develop the science
   and technology of attractive rep-rated IFE power systems, leveraging
   from the work sponsored by the National Nuclear Security Agency's
   Office of Defense Programs. The main part of this report (Section 3.0)
   provides the Level 2 information for all these six goals in a common
   format: * a statement of the FESAC goal followed by an explanatory
   description; * a statement of its supporting objectives; * an
   indication of how progress will be measured for each objective; * a
   discussion of each objective including key issues; and * a list and
   description of implementation approaches for each objective. The
   Integrated Program Plan connects the goals, using the basic fusion
   program planning components (experiments, theory, and technology), to
   detailed fusion program activities and their objectives and milestones.
   Achievement of the goals of the program requires integration in at
   least six senses: 4 11/2/00 * integration of theory, experiment and
   technology; * integration of the 4 MFE goals; * integration between MFE
   concepts; * coordination of OFES' IFE and National Nuclear Security
   Agency's Office of Defense Programs' Inertial Confinement Fusion (ICF)
   program and of the 2 IFE goals; * integration of the MFE and IFE
   programs; and * integration of the U.S. domestic fusion program and the
   world fusion program. In its review of the program in 1999, SEAB
   stated, "Given constrained budgets, the wide variety of options, and
   the linkages of one issue to another, increasingly sophisticated
   management of the program will be required...(and) given the complex
   nature of the fusion effort, an integrated program planning process
   will be required." The charter from OFES for this activity requests
   that an Integrated Program Plan be prepared which includes the
   following information and capabilities: * description of the program
   activities; * intermediate milestones for each activity; *
   interrelationships among the activities; * linkages between program
   accomplishments and program goals; * basis for performance-based
   management of the program; * basis for resource planning; and * basis
   for establishing accountability. These SEAB and OFES requirements can
   be most readily accomplished by the creation and use of a research
   activities database and a concomitant database management system for
   the fusion program, which is described in general terms in Section 4.0.
   5 11/2/00 1.0 Introduction and Background The Integrated Program
   Planning Activity (IPPA) was commissioned in January of 2000 by Dr. N.
   Anne Davies (see Appendix I), Associate Director for Fusion Energy
   Sciences of DOE's Office of Science, to integrate a substantial amount
   of existing information "into a program plan that shows how the various
   elements of the program are interrelated and interdependent." This
   report has been prepared by the IPPA in response to the charter
   contained in Appendix I. Much of the work needed to develop an
   integrated plan has been completed and forms the basis for this report.
   This includes the following: * The Fusion Energy Sciences Advisory
   Committee's report on "Opportunities in the Fusion Energy Sciences
   Program", June 1999. * The Fusion Energy Sciences Advisory Committee's
   report on "Priorities and Balance within the Fusion Energy Sciences
   Program", September 1999. * The Final Report of the Secretary of Energy
   Advisory Board's Task Force on Fusion Energy, August 9, 1999, as
   transmitted to Secretary Richardson by Andrew Athy on September 30,
   1999. * The Interim Assessment of the National Research Council's
   Fusion Science Assessment Committee, August 31, 1999. * The output of
   the Fusion Community's Fusion Summer Study of July 1999. The overall
   IPPA goal is to develop an integrated plan with the following features:
   * A description of the program that acknowledges both the science and
   energy goals of the program. * A description of program activities
   needed to achieve the goals. * A set of intermediate milestones for
   each program activity. * A description of the interrelationships among
   the activities. * A linkage between program accomplishments and program
   goals. The formative discussions on the IPPA developed the concept of
   three levels of program planning information: Level 1 - A top-level
   strategic framework. Level 2 - An integrated description of goals and
   objectives leading to an implementation plan with measures of progress.
   Level 3 - A structure for detailed, integrated planning, utilizing a
   database which organizes information on near-term tasks following from
   Level 2. Milestones and performing institutions to support the
   implementation approaches are to be included. This report contains the
   Level 1 and 2 planning information. Level 1 is a review of previously
   issued strategic plans by DOE. The main part of this report is at Level
   2 but the approach to establishing a Level 3 database is also
   described. The FESAC report on balance and priorities describes goals
   and 5, 10, 15-year objectives for the fusion energy sciences program.
   "Goals" refer to the principal technical thrusts of the program and
   "objectives" refer to steps toward meeting 6 11/2/00 these goals. The
   Level 2 planning information in this report emphasizes the five-year
   objectives to respond to DOE's request for immediate milestones but
   includes, where appropriate, work related to longer-term objectives.
   The three levels then combine to form a comprehensive, Integrated
   Program Plan. To implement the IPPA, Dr. Davies established a Steering
   Committee and Working Group whose membership is listed in Appendix II.
   The Steering Committee provides regular oversight to the Working Group
   which is responsible for preparing this report. A wide variety of
   methods were used to inform and interact with many segments of the
   fusion community in preparing this report. In carrying out the work of
   the IPPA, several important guidelines were implemented: * Maintain key
   mission/goals/approach of restructured Fusion Energy Sciences Program -
   strong science program with long-range energy applications. * Emphasize
   community involvement throughout the process by: - general access
   websites. - numerous community networks. - Steering Committee. - FESAC
   review. * Make maximum use of approach/features/information of past
   year's reviews and activities. * Make maximum use of existing
   infrastructure of program (committees, task forces, groups, etc.) to
   encourage community participation and support. Use information
   developed in the annual budget process. * Develop and maintain
   effective liaison with DOE's Office of Fusion Energy Sciences staff. *
   Be flexible and modify planning process to reflect input and
   suggestions. The major elements of this report are as follows: Section
   2- description of the overall strategic framework and program
   integration/interconnections (Level 1). Section 3- principal scientific
   program goals and objectives as developed by FESAC are expanded to
   include implementation approaches (Level 2). Section 4- description of
   research (budget) categories and their relationship to goals and
   objectives and a framework for implementing a detailed database on
   tasks, milestones/metrics and performing institutions (Level 3). 7
   11/2/00 2.0 Strategic Framework and Program Integration (Level 1) The
   purpose of this section is to describe the strategic framework for the
   Integrated Program Plan (IPP), namely the top level (Level 1)
   assumptions upon which the IPP is constructed. This section provides a
   brief overview of the key program and policy doctrines that form the
   foundations of the IPP, and then describes program integration and
   interconnections from several perspectives. The Fusion Energy Sciences
   Advisory Committee (FESAC), the official advisory body to the USDOE on
   fusion energy matters, recently characterized the fusion program as
   follows1: "Fusion is a scientific and technological grand challenge. It
   has required the development of the entire field of high-temperature
   plasma physics, a field of science that contributes to the description
   of some 99% of the visible universe. Plasma physics also provides
   cross-cutting insights to related fields such as nonlinear mechanics,
   atomic physics, and fluid turbulence. Quality science has always been
   the key to optimizing fusion systems. Throughout the history of fusion
   energy research, the combination of exciting, challenging science and
   the lofty energy goal has attracted gifted young people into fusion
   research, many of whom have gone on to make important contributions in
   related scientific fields and in the commercial technology arena...
   "Recent years have brought dramatic advances in the scientific
   understanding of fusion plasmas and in the generation of fusion power
   in the laboratory. Today, there is little doubt that fusion energy
   production is feasible. The challenge is to make fusion energy
   practical. As a result of the advances of the last few years, there are
   now exciting opportunities to optimize fusion systems so that an
   attractive new energy source will be available when it may be needed in
   the middle of the century. The risk of conflicts arising from energy
   shortages and supply cutoffs, as well as the risk of severe
   environmental impacts from existing methods of energy production, are
   among the reasons to pursue these opportunities... "The DOE Fusion
   Energy Sciences Program is exploring multiple paths for optimizing
   fusion systems, taking advantage of both the strong international
   program in magnetic fusion energy and the strong DOE Defense Program's
   effort in inertial confinement fusion. As in other fields, the
   advancement of plasma science and technology requires facilities in a
   range of sizes, from the largest devices that press the frontier of
   high- temperature plasmas to smaller experiments suitable to begin the
   exploration of innovative ideas for fusion optimization. The very
   largest facilities may require international collaboration, while the
   smallest are natural for university-scale investigation. Specific
   questions of plasma science and fusion technology set both the required
   number and the required scale of the experimental facilities in the
   program." "The large international magnetic fusion program, at over a
   billion dollars per year, is an indication of the world-wide commitment
   to the development of a practical magnetic fusion power system. This
   global investment also provides dramatic leverage for U.S. research."
   The Fusion Energy Sciences program is a part of the Department of
   Energy's Science program. The mission of the Office of Science is2: 1
   FESAC Report, "Opportunities in the Fusion Energy Sciences Program,"
   June 1999 2 USDOE, Draft "Strategic Plan for the U.S. Fusion Energy
   Sciences Program," May 2000 8 11/2/00 To advance basic research and the
   instruments of science that are the foundations for DOE's applied
   missions, a base for U.S. technology innovation, and a source of
   remarkable insights into our physical and biological world and the
   nature of matter and energy. The five central goals for the Office of
   Science are: * Fuel the future--Science for clean and affordable
   energy. * Protect our living planet--Energy impacts on people and the
   biosphere. * Explore matter and energy--Building blocks from atoms to
   life. * Provide extraordinary tools for extraordinary science--National
   assets for multidisciplinary research. * Manage as stewards of the
   public trust--Scientific and operational excellence. Fusion research
   directly supports these Office of Science goals because it offers the
   prospect of an abundant and clean source of energy while developing and
   nurturing the science of plasmas, the fourth state of matter. Plasmas
   represent a complex set of phenomena, coupling particles and
   electromagnetic fields, which stimulate and make use of detailed
   experiments, innovative diagnostics, and advanced computational
   methods. The Fusion Program also contributes substantially to a broad
   range of basic and engineering sciences and operates several national
   research facilities. The Fusion Energy Sciences Program mission
   statement and policy goals, as stated below, were adopted by the US DOE
   based on the recommendations for a restructured fusion energy sciences
   program submitted by the Fusion Energy Advisory Committee in 1996.3 The
   thrust of the new strategy is to emphasize advancing the science and
   technology knowledge base, including basic plasma science, needed for
   an economically and environmentally attractive energy source.
   Scientific advances underlie this program strategy. The new approach
   is, in essence, a science- based strategy for the development of fusion
   energy.4 MISSION Advance plasma science, fusion science, and fusion
   technology  the knowledge base needed for an economically and
   environmentally attractive fusion energy source. POLICY GOALS 1.
   Advance plasma science in pursuit of national science and technology
   goals. 2. Develop fusion science, technology, and plasma confinement
   innovations as the central theme of the domestic program. 3. Pursue
   fusion energy science and technology as a partner in the international
   effort. In the 1999 Opportunities Document, FESAC stated1: "The fusion
   energy quest demands excellent science-it will fail without the
   nourishment of scientific advance and deep scientific understanding. At
   the same time, the fusion program has an extraordinary record in
   generating excellent science-bringing crucial insights as well as
   conceptual innovations to such disciplines as fluid mechanics,
   astrophysics, and nonlinear dynamics. Most of the scientific advances
   engendered by fusion research have begun as dis- coveries about the
   behavior of that most complex state of matter, plasma." The quest for
   fusion energy has driven intensive research in basic plasma physics,
   leading to a number of discoveries of fundamental importance to such
   disciplines as kinetic theory, transport theory and nonlinear dynamics.
   Some key questions (see Appendix III) being pursued in the fusion
   program are: 3 FEAC Report, "A Restructured Fusion Energy Sciences
   Program," Jan. 27, 1996 4 Report DOE/ER-6084, "Strategic Plan for the
   Restructured U.S. Fusion Energy Sciences Program", Aug. 1996 9 11/2/00
   * What are the fundamental causes of heat loss in magnetically confined
   plasmas, and how can heat losses be controlled? * What are the
   fundamental causes and nonlinear consequences of plasma pressure limits
   in magnetically confined plasma systems? * What are the fundamental
   causes and nonlinear consequences of wave interactions with thermal and
   non-thermal particles? * What are the fundamental processes occurring
   near the boundary of a confined plasma and how can the interaction
   between the plasma and material surfaces be controlled? * How do limits
   on driver intensity and target requirements for irradiation symmetry,
   hydrodynamic instability, pulse shaping, and fusion ignition impact the
   gain achievable in inertial fusion targets? * What are the limits to
   charged particle beam transport and focal intensities in the beam
   current regimes of interest to IFE? * What are the most effective means
   to address the technological needs of present fusion research
   activities as well as future fusion reactors? This knowledge base has
   not only served fusion, but nurtured scientific advances in many other
   areas of science and technology. These themes are highlighted in Figure
   2.1. Figure 2.1 The quest for fusion energy has driven intensive
   research in basic plasma physics, leading to discoveries of fundamental
   importance. Stability Beam Transport Transport Wave-particle Boundary
   Physics Hydrodynamics 10 11/2/00 PROGRAM DIRECTIONS AND BALANCE The
   program directions and balance contained in this report reflect the
   recommendations of FESAC as described in the "Report of the Panel of
   Priorities and Balance."4. This report responded in part to a charge
   issued on October 9, 1998, by Dr. Martha Krebs to lead a community
   assessment of the restructured U.S. program. FESAC and its panels
   undertook a year-long process to identify the opportunities and
   requirements of a fusion energy science program; to identify goals,
   metrics and decision criteria; to consider issues of program balance;
   and to make recommendations on program content, emphasis and balance.
   Its underpinnings followed from recent reviews of the U.S. fusion
   program. It was prepared by members of FESAC, using input from a
   sequence of three FESAC panels, a summer meeting of representatives of
   the entire fusion community, presentations on the entire fusion program
   made during visits of fusion sites, and from SEAB and NRC panels. In
   addressing the relative balance and priorities, the FESAC response
   reaffirmed "the national custodial responsibility of OFES for the
   health and vitality of the discipline of plasma science." With regard
   to fusion, the Panel endorsed and took as a starting point the Final
   Report of the SEAB Task Force on Fusion Energy, Realizing the Promise
   of Fusion Energy, which stated: "In light of the promise of fusion and
   the risks arising from increasing worldwide energy demand and from
   eventually declining fossil energy supply, it is our view that we
   should pursue fusion energy aggressively." The FESAC Panel identified
   the achievement of a more integrated national program in MFE and IFE as
   a major programmatic and policy goal in the years ahead. Two areas of
   research common to both MFE and IFE deserve special encouragement in
   this regard: theory and selected areas of chamber technology.
   Establishing an optimal balance between IFE and MFE in a more
   integrated national program in fusion energy sciences should be based
   on the following guiding principles: * The MFE and IFE programs should
   be consistent with their respective time frames, set in part by: - MFE
   opportunities to participate in major international experiments. - IFE
   opportunities to leverage the National Nuclear Security Agency's Office
   of Defense Program funded Inertial Confinement Fusion (ICF) program. *
   Specific elements of science and technology critical for evaluating the
   ultimate energy potential of IFE and MFE, such as interaction of the
   plasma with chamber walls, should be brought to comparable levels of
   maturity. * The dramatic advances in the predictive power of modern
   theory and simulation make these tools essential elements of a
   cost-effective program. * A common peer-review process for MFE, IFE,
   and cross-cutting activities should be implemented wherever possible. *
   Cross-cutting science and technology, with application to both MFE and
   IFE, deserves special encouragement. * Attracting and retaining
   creative young scientists in the combined program. The MFE research
   plan is motivated by three considerations central to the restructured
   fusion energy sciences program: the continued development of
   fundamental scientific understanding and innovative technologies, the
   advancement of innovative magnetic concepts, and the time frame of 4
   FESAC Report, "Priorities and Balance Within the Fusion Energy Sciences
   Program," Sept. 1999 11 11/2/00 the international fusion effort. In the
   five-year time frame, the international fusion community will be making
   construction decisions for major next-step experiments. The MFE plan
   assures that the U.S. remains actively engaged with the international
   community and is able to participate in a meaningful way with the
   worldwide development of magnetic fusion energy. Also on approximately
   a five-year time scale, our understanding of some of the new magnetic
   fusion concepts can be sufficiently advanced to warrant consideration
   for study at the larger scales which more closely resemble fusion
   conditions. The near-term IFE research plan is motivated by the goal of
   initiating an Integrated Research Experiment (IRE) program to
   complement results expected to be obtained on NIF and other Defense
   Programs and international single shot target physics facilities. One
   essential feature of the IFE program is an increased emphasis on
   chamber technology, including beam propagation. The IFE plan aims at
   obtaining the scientific information and technology development needed
   to make an IRE decision in roughly the five-year time frame, permitting
   an effective interaction and leverage between a balanced IFE research
   program and the NIF and other inertial fusion programs in target
   physics. The central elements of these plans are represented by four
   MFE and two IFE programmatic goals. These goals are: MFE PROGRAM GOALS
   1. Advance the fundamental understanding of plasma, the fourth state of
   matter, and enhance predictive capabilities, through the comparison of
   well-diagnosed experiments, theory and simulation. 2. Resolve
   outstanding scientific issues and establish reduced-cost paths to more
   attractive fusion energy systems by investigating a broad range of
   innovative magnetic confinement configurations. 3. Advance
   understanding and innovation in high-performance plasmas, optimizing
   for projected power-plant requirements, and participate in a burning
   plasma experiment. 4. Develop enabling technologies to advance fusion
   science; pursue innovative technologies and materials to improve the
   vision for fusion energy; and apply systems analysis to optimize fusion
   development. IFE PROGRAM GOALS 1. Advance the fundamental understanding
   and predictability of high energy density plasmas for IFE, leveraging
   from the ICF target physics work sponsored by the National Nuclear
   Security Agency's Office of Defense Programs. 2. Develop the science
   and technology of attractive rep-rated IFE power systems, again
   leveraging from the work sponsored by DOE in the DP ICF Program. The
   knowledge base for next step decisions in the development of fusion
   energy will be based upon these six key program goals. These goals are
   the guiding basis for the Integrated Program Plan. Although the six
   fusion energy science goals are listed separately for MFE and for IFE,
   when taken together, they represent major steps toward the world's
   ultimate goal for fusion research: the ability to proceed to the
   development of a practical energy source. As described by FESAC in
   their report Opportunities in the Fusion Energy Sciences Program,1 the
   U.S. fusion community has created a programmatic structure that
   includes both MFE and IFE approaches within a unified framework. This
   framework defines "stages of development" that are followed during the
   scientific investigation and technical development of possible
   approaches to a fusion energy source. (See Figure 2.2). The framework's
   central focus is to provide a logic that makes each stage practical and
   affordable while optimizing the scientific and technological research
   addressed at each stage. There 12 11/2/00 are currently various
   concepts at the first three stages of development listed below. New
   concepts enter at the concept exploration level. The five developmental
   stages of development are defined in the FESAC document: Concept
   Exploration is typically at <$5M/year and involves the investigation of
   basic characteristics. Experiments cover a smaller range of plasma
   parameters (e.g., at <1 keV) and have fewer controls and diagnostics
   than a PoP level experiment. However, sufficient diagnostics are
   required to carry out high quality, scientific investigations.
   Proof-of-Principle (PoP) is the lowest cost program ($5M to $30M/year)
   to develop an integrated understanding of the basic science of a
   concept. Well-diagnosed and controlled experiments are large enough to
   cover a fairly wide range of plasma parameters, with temperatures of a
   few kiloelectron volts, and some dimensionless parameters in the power
   plant range. Performance Extension programs explore the physics of the
   concept at or near fusion-relevant regimes. Experiments have a very
   large range of parameters and temperatures >5 keV, with most
   dimensionless parameters in the power plant range. Diagnostics and
   controls are extensive. Fusion Energy Development program develops the
   technical basis for advancing the concept to the power plant level in
   the full fusion environment. It includes ignition devices, integrated
   fusion test systems, and neutron sources. Demonstration Power Plant is
   constructed and operated to convince electric power producers,
   industry, and the public that fusion is ready for commercialization. 13
   11/2/00 Figure 2.2 Logic Framework for Stages of Fusion Energy
   Development. The integrated plan refers to this structure in
   characterizing the activities and goals. INTEGRATED PROGRAM PLAN (IPP)
   Starting with the six FESAC programmatic goals stated above as
   "givens", this Integrated Program Plan connects the goals, using the
   basic fusion program planning components (experiments, theory, and
   technology), to the detailed fusion program activities, and their
   objectives and milestones, both near term and longer term, including
   basic science research in each component area. The purposes of the IPP
   include: 1. produce an integrated program plan for use by the DOE
   Office of Fusion Energy Sciences and the fusion community, including
   both MFE and IFE, and integrating experiments, theory, technology and
   basic plasma science. 2. provide the management of the fusion program
   at all levels, both at DOE and in the field, with improved mechanisms
   for accessing key technical and management information, to achieve
   better communications and performance accountability across the
   program. 14 11/2/00 3. elucidate and display the inter-connectedness
   and inter-dependency (the critical "connective tissue") which exists
   among the diverse parts of the national fusion energy sciences program,
   and which is necessary for achieving the program goals. The national
   fusion program is a complex ensemble of program activities, involving
   many areas of science and technology, which connect to broader
   scientific programs outside of the fusion energy sciences program. One
   of the purposes of the IPP is to shed light on these scientific inter-
   relationships. The connectivity and integration of the three program
   planning components (experiments, theory, and technology), together
   with their major technical and management interfaces, is discussed
   below. PROGRAM INTEGRATION AND INTERCONNECTIONS FESAC recognized a
   variety of forms of integration as key to the success of the U.S.
   fusion program. In fact, achievement of the goals of the restructured
   U.S. fusion program requires integration of the program in at least six
   senses: * integration of theory, experiment and technology; *
   integration of the 4 MFE goals; * integration between MFE concepts; *
   coordination of OFES' IFE and National Nuclear Security Agency's Office
   of Defense Programs' ICF program and of the 2 IFE goals; * integration
   of the MFE and IFE programs; and * integration of the U.S. domestic
   fusion program and the world fusion program. This section addresses
   these six integration perspectives. Integration of Theory, Experiment
   and Technology The fusion program is fundamentally multi-disciplinary
   and innovative which drives the strong coupling between the three major
   areas of theory, experiment and technology, as illustrated below. 15
   11/2/00 Figure 2.3 Interconnections of Theory, Experiment and
   Technology. models and predictions Theory Experiment benchmarks and
   challenges predictive models energy concept key issues enabling
   technology needs and assessment Technology Consistent with its nature
   as a science program, strong interactions between experiments and
   theory provide insights that enable the improvement of understanding;
   theory and simulation develop physical models and predict the outcomes
   of experiments; the experiments provide benchmarks of the theories -
   sometimes confirming predictions but often challenging the theorists to
   improve the models. Detailed diagnostic measurements of the plasma
   profiles and of plasma fluctuations are key to understanding plasma
   behavior. The experimental facilities frequently confront the
   technological state-of-the-art and are enabled by developments in the
   technology program; conversely, the experiments utilize the
   technologies, assess the performance of the technologies, and identify
   needs for further development. Theory provides predictive models which
   are used by the systems analysts in the technology program both to
   design new facilities and to optimize the vision of alternative fusion
   reactors; conversely, the technology program identifies directions
   where improved understanding of the plasma behavior would significantly
   improve reactor visions. FESAC explicitly recognized the role of the
   technology program in enabling the experimental program by recommending
   to "revitalize the technology program to provide for continued
   innovation in this area because of its overall importance to the
   success of fusion science and fusion energy and applications [and to]
   utilize systems studies to identify attractive fusion energy concepts
   and affordable development paths." FESAC recognized that the expected
   increase of understanding motivates a five-year decision-point to
   consider advancing to the next level of integration: "Also on
   approximately a five-year time scale, our understanding of some of the
   new magnetic fusion concepts can be sufficiently advanced 16 11/2/00 to
   warrant consideration for study at the larger scales which more closely
   resemble fusion conditions." Integration of the 4 MFE Goals The four
   FESAC goals together form the structure for a network of
   interconnections that enable the U.S. fusion program. As illustrated in
   Figure 2.4, the four goals are mutually supportive; each goal is
   associated with activities that both provide tools and capabilities to
   enable pursuit of the other goals and benefit from the outputs of the
   other goals' activities. Advanced fundamental understanding of plasmas
   and enhanced predictive capabilities (Goal 1) are achieved by
   developing theoretical models, conducting general plasma science
   experiments, and analyzing data and incorporating understandings from
   innovative confinement concept devices (Goal 2) and from
   high-performance plasmas and low-gain burning plasmas (Goal 3); in
   return, the advanced understanding (Goal 1) contributes prediction
   methodologies and tools for design and data interpretation (Goal 2 and
   3). Similarly, advanced understanding (Goal 1) provides improved
   predictive capabilities to systems analysts (Goal 4) who respond with
   visions for future directions. Studies of innovative magnetic
   confinement configurations (Goal 2) benefit from the plasma control
   tools and understanding developed by high-performance plasma studies
   (Goal 3), and provide conceptual innovations that can improve the
   high-performance plasma studies (Goal 3). The development of relevant
   technologies (Goal 4) enables both innovative (Goal 2) and high-
   performance (Goal 3) plasma studies by providing plasma control tools,
   plasma diagnostics, experiment design, and systems analyses;
   correspondingly, the experimental programs (Goal 2 and 3) identify
   technology needs, refine reactor visions, and provide experimental data
   and performance projections to provide a basis for designing and
   optimizing future facilities (Goal 4). Integration Between MFE Concepts
   The fusion program addresses the spectrum of scientific topics via
   research on a range of device configurations. Pursuit of understanding
   of the scientific topics (MHD, transport and turbulence, wave particle
   interactions, and plasma wall interaction) benefits from experiments
   and theory on devices that span the space of externally controlled to
   self-organized, as shown in Figure 2.5. Devices whose configurations
   are largely controlled by strong plasma currents are generally more
   susceptible to MHD modes and also offer opportunities for the study of
   MHD instabilities; control of MHD instabilities by profile control,
   feedback control, etc., on one configuration could provide key
   opportunities for MHD stabilization in other configurations; for
   example, work on the feedback stabilization of resistive walls modes on
   tokamaks is also key to progress in spherical tori (ST) and reversed
   field pinches. Understanding of transport and turbulence is aided by
   studies in the full range of configurations; understanding, suppression
   and control of turbulence and transport are key to optimization of all
   configurations. Externally controlled configurations, like advanced
   stellarators, tokamaks and ST's, utilize plasma-driven currents to
   reduce the need for externally-driven currents; understanding and
   control of those so-called "bootstrap currents" benefit the range of
   externally controlled configurations. In a complementary fashion,
   studies of helicity injection and tokamak current drive benefit the
   range of self-organized configurations. Power and particle control is a
   key issue for the full range of configurations; studies of the plasma
   wall interaction provide insights and direction for this control in the
   range of configurations. 17 11/2/00 Figure 2.4 Interconnections of the
   Four MFE Goals. Goal 1 Advance fundamental understanding of data and
   understanding of high-performance and burning plasmas and enhanced
   plasmas predictive capabilities predictions and tools for design and
   data interpretation behavior understanding of plasma improved
   predictive data and understanding of innovative configurations
   innovations for predictions and tools for design and data
   interpretation applications to Goal 2 high-performance Goal 3 plasmas
   Advance understand- Investigate ing and innovation in innovative
   magnetic high-performance confinement plasmas and partici-
   configurations plasma control tools pate in a burning and understanding
   plasma experiment innovative reactor concepts enabling technology and
   systems analyses technology challenge of opportunities; systems
   analyses plasma performance prediction methologies Goal 4 enabling
   technology Develop enabling and system analyses technologies; pursue
   innovative technologies; apply systems analyses 18 11/2/00 Figure 2.5
   Scientific Integration Between MFE Concepts. Macroscopic Stability
   Wave-particle Interactions Microturbulence & Transport Plasma-Material
   Interactions Coordination of OFES' IFE and National Nuclear Security
   Agency's Office of Defense Programs' ICF Program and of the Two IFE
   Goals There is a high level of synergy between the Department of
   Energy's Office of Fusion Energy Sciences (OFES) IFE program addressing
   IFE-specific needs, and the National Nuclear Security Agency's Office
   of Defense Programs' (DP's) Inertial Confinement Fusion (ICF) target
   physics program. As written by FESAC: "The DP program addresses the
   critical target physics issues in single shot experiments. This allows
   a modest cost OFES program to focus on the development of high pulse-
   rate, efficient, reliable, and affordable drivers and associated fusion
   chambers, target fabrication, and target injection." FESAC highlighted
   that the IFE program should be "consistent with IFE opportunities to
   leverage the DP funded ICF program: "The IFE program relies on the
   DP-funded ICF program for much understanding of target physics." FESAC
   specifically called for coordination roles between the OFES IFE program
   and the defense and international programs: "These approaches leverage
   the National Nuclear Security Agency's Office of Defense Programs'
   large investments in laser and pulsed power facilities, target design
   19 11/2/00 capabilities, and experimental infrastructure including
   target fabrication and diagnostics. The heavy ion driver approach
   leverages the large worldwide program in accelerator development." The
   role of information from NIF and other elements of the ICF Program in a
   decision to construct an IRE will be reviewed when updates to the
   schedule for NIF construction and operation, as well as the general ICF
   Program plan, become available. SEAB called for dual-purpose work
   between IFE and ICF: "DP should dedicate funds to dual- purpose
   activities, consistent with DP's mission statement, that exploit the
   synergy between the defense work and IFE science. For example, DP might
   appropriately take the lead in the development of high-average-power
   lasers because of DP's very significant involvement and accomplishments
   in the laser field." Figure 2.6 Interconnections of the Two IFE Goals.
   Required beam power, energy, and symmetry IFE Goal 1: Advance the IFE
   Goal 2: Develop fundamental the science and understanding and
   technology of predictability of attractive rep-rated high energy IFE
   power systems density plasmas for leveraging from the IFE. single-shot
   work in the DP-ICF Program Achievable beam spot size, smoothness, and
   illumination geometry for ion beams and lasers. Achievable power flow
   for recyclable transmission lines for z-pinches. IFE Goals 1 and 2,
   dealing with target physics, chamber technology, and repetition-rated
   drivers, must be integrated because of the need for compatibility
   between drivers and targets. (See Figure 2.6). Implosion experiments
   and computer models are conducted within the National Nuclear Security
   Agency's Office of Defense Programs in Inertial Confinement Fusion.
   However, the requirements for higher target gain at repetition rates
   for inertial fusion energy demand unique target design features and
   extensions of computer models to satisfy repetition-rated chamber,
   driver, and target fabrication constraints. The target design and
   chamber design depend on the characteristics of the driver. Thus,
   development of satisfactory repetition-rated IFE drivers and targets
   requires tight integration with IFE-specific target design. Integration
   of the MFE and IFE Programs In its report on Priorities and Balance,
   FESAC called for "the achievement of a more integrated national program
   in MFE and IFE as a major programmatic and policy goal in the years
   ahead." FESAC emphasized that "Cross-cutting science and technology,
   with application to both MFE and IFE, deserves special encouragement."
   The magnetic fusion and inertial fusion programs share several areas
   where joint studies are mutually beneficial; especially strong are the
   areas of wave interaction physics and chamber studies. Correspondingly,
   FESAC emphasized two areas of research for "special encouragement in
   this regard: "theory, including terascale computing, and selected areas
   of chamber technology." Further, "Specific elements of science and
   technology critical for evaluating the ultimate energy potential of IFE
   and MFE, such as interaction of the plasma with chamber walls, should
   be brought to comparable levels of maturity." 20 11/2/00 The Integrated
   Program Plan (IPP) integrates MFE and IFE in a new and consistent way,
   providing a common planning formalism. Integration of the U.S. Domestic
   Fusion Program and the World Fusion Program FESAC has highlighted the
   U.S. role in the international fusion program: "The large international
   MFE program, over a billion dollars per year, provides important
   opportunities to US researchers. The portfolio of US investments is
   chosen to benefit maximally from the international effort, by
   complementing those efforts. By the same token, the major foreign
   facilities provide important opportunities for US MFE researchers to
   perform experiments, collaboratively, which are not possible on
   domestic facilities. The goals, balance considerations and
   recommendations provided in this report have been formulated to take
   the above aspects into account." With the U.S. MFE budget being only
   ~20% of the world MFE budget, the U.S. program must focus its
   activities in order to perform high quality work that makes a
   significant impact on the world program. Recognizing that the largest
   and most powerful tokamak and stellarator facilities are located
   abroad, the U.S. strategic plan has chosen an emphasis on understanding
   and innovation which spans the range of MFE concepts and builds on U.S.
   strengths of theory, diagnostics, and experiment design and analysis.
   The U.S.'s theory and small-to-medium-scale facilities provide
   opportunities for innovation and understanding. International
   collaboration provides opportunities for extending this work to larger
   scale. The international collaborations allow the U.S. researchers to
   both benefit the foreign programs and to bring the international
   discoveries and developments back to the domestic program. This is
   especially important in the area of burning plasma science as embodied
   in MFE Goal 3, which sets a program goal of advancing understanding and
   innovation in high-performance plasmas, optimizing projected power
   plant requirements, and participating in a burning plasma experiment.
   Research in burning plasma physics is fundamental to the development of
   fusion energy. These high-performance plasmas provide a research tool
   for extending our understanding of fusion plasmas. The excitement of a
   magnetically confined burning plasma experiment stems from the prospect
   of investigating and integrating frontier physics in the areas of
   energetic particles, transport, stability and plasma control, in a
   relevant fusion energy regime. Since only the tokamak concept has the
   technical basis today to move forward with a high gain burning plasma
   experiment, most of this research in the near term is focused on
   tokamak experiments. In the experimental tokamak program, the US'
   medium-scale tokamaks emphasize understanding of the underlying physics
   in the areas of MHD, turbulence and transport, wave-particle
   interactions, and plasma-wall interactions and the application of that
   understanding to innovation; the US domestic studies benefit from the
   discoveries and joint experiments with international tokamak programs;
   US domestic results, including advanced control and enhanced
   performance scenarios, are then extended via collaboration on
   international tokamaks that permit studies at larger size and on
   devices of different configuration. The US medium-scale spherical torus
   program is beginning exchanges and joint experiments with devices
   abroad that differ in their configuration, such as proximity of the
   conducting wall, permitting greater understanding via joint experiments
   that focus on understanding the differences related to the different
   configurations. In the theory program, extensive networking permits
   teaming between world-class experts in the development and testing of
   theories both against each other and with experimental data. In the
   U.S. technology program, the US works with international partners to
   develop technologies that enable experiments, both domestic and abroad;
   the US also participates in large-scale programs such as magnets and
   materials development mainly via international collaboration. By these
   means, the US domestic program is leveraged against the larger programs
   abroad to both extend US activity to larger scale and to permit US
   participation in experimental and technological programs that are
   unavailable domestically. The approach of integrated domestic and
   international programs is consistent with the recommendations from the
   recent series of policy studies. PCAST (Holdren, The U.S. Program of
   Fusion Energy Research and Development ) in 1995 wrote as its first
   priority: "a strong domestic core program in plasma science and fusion
   technology, with funds to explore both 21 11/2/00 advanced tokamak
   research and research on concepts alternative to the tokamak, leveraged
   where possible on related activities worldwide." In 1997, PCAST
   (Holdren, Federal Energy Research and Development for the Challenges of
   the Twenty-first Centur y) called for significant collaborations with
   both the JET program in Europe and the JT-60 program in Japan, to
   provide experience with prototypes for a burning plasma machine and to
   explore driven burning plasma discharges. In 1999, SEAB (Meserve,
   Realizing the Promise of Fusion Energy ) wrote "Very substantial MFE
   program  programs with funding that exceeds that of the U.S.  are being
   undertaken abroad. In light of the worldwide benefits of fusion, the
   large resource requirements for its development, and the significant
   MFE programs that exist outside the U.S., the case for the stable and
   meaningful engagement of the U.S. in international collaboration is
   compelling." "Moreover, over the longer term, the U.S. must involve
   itself in international experiments associated with burning plasmas."
   Finally, also in 1999, FESAC ( Report of the FESAC Panel on Priorities
   and Balance ) emphasized the role of integration with the international
   program as setting the pace for the U.S. MFE program: "In the five-year
   time frame, the international fusion community will be making
   construction decisions for major next-step experiments. The MFE plan
   assures that the U.S. remains actively engaged with the international
   community and is able to participate in a meaningful way with the
   worldwide development of magnetic fusion energy." In the next five
   years, there are two primary options for major next-step MFE burning
   plasma experiments. The current ITER partners (Europe, Japan and
   Russia) have developed a design of a smaller next-step experiment
   called ITER-FEAT which could be constructed at a lower cost. If this
   international consortium decides to proceed with construction, it will
   very likely present an opportunity for U.S. participation which would
   need to be seriously considered. In 1999, SEAB (Meserve, Realizing the
   Promise of Fusion Energy ) wrote: "If [the ITER partners] decide to go
   forward, the U.S. should seek to participate in some fashion. If they
   do not, the U.S. should pursue a less ambitious machine that will allow
   the exploration of the relevant science at lower cost." This strategic
   approach was also recommended by FESAC in 1998 (Grunder, January 1998,
   DOE/ER-0720) which wrote: "This effort should be directed at examining
   lower cost, reduced scope options in the interest of achieving a fusion
   energy-producing experiment on the fastest possible schedule. These
   options provide a contingency plan that will be necessary in the event
   that the financial commitments cannot be secured for the full-mission
   ITER machine." Following these recommendations, the U.S. MFE program
   has been assessing other, smaller next- step burning plasma experiments
   (presently represented by the FIRE design) which would be available for
   international participation if construction of ITER-FEAT is not
   undertaken. The U.S. IFE Program will also benefit from international
   activities in inertial fusion. Although the worldwide program in
   inertial fusion is smaller than that in MFE, several major facilities
   are currently in operation or under construction. The French CEA is
   planning to construct the LMJ, a megajoule laser facility very similar
   to NIF with 240 beams compared to NIF's 192 beams. A prototype beamline
   for the LMJ, the LIL, will be completed in CY2002. LIL will provide
   valuable performance information for both NIF and LMJ. The major
   current international ICF facility is GEKKO XII in Osaka, Japan. Work
   on GEKKO focuses on direct drive ICF. There are several facilities
   worldwide for short pulse high-intensity laser plasma interaction
   experiments. 22 11/2/00 3.0 FESAC Key Issues, Goals, Objectives and
   Implementation Approaches (Level 2) This section provides the Level 2
   of the Integrated Program Plan. This is based on the key issues, goals
   and objectives developed by FESAC. Emphasis is placed on the five-year
   objectives while keeping in mind the longer term objectives. A summary
   of the six major FESAC goals and their supporting objectives are given
   in Table. 3.1. These goals and objectives were developed by FESAC
   assuming modest growth in MFE and IFE funding to a level of about $300M
   per year. Beyond the five-year goals listed in column 2, the MFE goals
   were subdivided into 10-year and 15-year goals while the goals adopted
   for IFE were listed as medium term up to 20 years. Table 3.1 The
   Program Goals and Objectives. Goals 5-Year Objectives 10-Year
   Objectives 15-Year Objectives Goal 1 : Advance 1.1 Turbulence and
   understanding of Transport Develop fully Develop a fully plasma, the
   fourth Advance scientific understanding integrated validated state of
   matter, and of turbulent transport forming capability for comprehensive
   enhance predictive the basis for a reliable predictive predicting the
   simulation capabilities, capability in externally performance of
   capability applicable through controlled systems. externally-controlled
   to the broad range of comparison of systems including magnetic
   confinement well-diagnosed 1.2 Macroscopic Stability turbulent
   transport, configurations. experiments, Develop detailed predictive
   macroscopic stability, theory and capability for macroscopic wave
   particle physics Advance the simulation. stability, including resistive
   and and multi-phase forefront of non- kinetic effects. interfaces.
   fusion plasma 1.3 Wave Particle science and Interactions Develop
   qualitative technology across a Develop predictive capability for
   predictive broad frontier, plasma heating, flow, and current capability
   for synergistically with the drive, as well as energetic transport and
   stability development of fusion particle driven instabilities, in a in
   self-organized science. variety of magnetic confinement systems.
   configurations and especially for reactor-relevant regimes. Advance the
   forefront of non- 1.4 Multiphase Interfaces fusion plasma Advance the
   capability to predict science and detailed multi-phase plasma-wall
   technology across a interfaces at very high power- broad frontier, and
   particle-fluxes. synergistically with the development of fusion 1.5
   General Science science. Advance the forefront of non- fusion plasma
   science and plasma technology across a broad frontier, synergistically
   with the development of fusion science in both MFE and IFE. 23 11/2/00
   Goal 2 : Resolve 2.1 Spherical Torus Assess the Assess the outstanding
   Make preliminary determination attractiveness of attractiveness of
   scientific issues of the attractiveness of the extrapolable, long- one
   or more of the and establish Spherical Torus (ST), by pulse operation
   of previously reduced-cost paths assessing high-beta stability, the
   Spherical Torus investigated to more attractive confinement,
   self-consistent for pulse lengths much configurations at the fusion
   energy high-bootstrap operation, and greater than current extended
   performance systems by acceptable divertor heat flux, for penetration
   time scales. level. investigating a pulse lengths much greater than
   broad range of energy confinement times. Complete Make preliminary
   innovative determination of determination of magnetic 2.2 Reversed
   Field Pinch the attractiveness the attractiveness confinement Begin
   determination of the of the Reversed- of further configurations.
   attractiveness of the Reversed- Field Pinch by configurations. Field
   Pinch (RFP) by assessing investigating high-beta self-consistent
   confinement and stability, sustainment Resolve key issues plasma
   current sustainment. and plasma-wall for an extended interaction.
   spectrum of 2.3 Stellarator configurations at the Determine the
   performance of a Determine exploratory level. large stellarator in the
   areas of attractiveness of a confinement, stability, Compact
   sustainment and divertor physics Stellarator by through international
   assessing resistance to collaboration. disruption at high beta without
   instability 2.4 Concept Explorations feedback control or Resolve key
   issues for a broad significant current drive, spectrum of
   configurations at the assessing confinement exploratory level. at high
   temperature, and investigating 3-D divertor operation. Make preliminary
   determination of the attractiveness of further configurations, as
   appropriate. Resolve key issues for an extended spectrum of
   configurations at the exploratory level. 24 11/2/00 Goal 3: Advance 3.1
   Profile Control Assess the Demonstrate high- understanding and Assess
   profile control methods attractiveness of gain burning innovation in
   high- for efficient current sustainment extrapolable, long- plasma
   operation performance and confinement enhancement in pulse operation of
   in a plasma regime plasmas, the Advanced Tokamak, the Advanced relevant
   to the practical optimizing for consistent with efficient divertor
   Tokamak for pulse production of fusion projected power- operation,
   pulse lengths much lengths much greater power. plant requirements;
   greater than energy confinement than current penetration and
   participate in a times. time scales. burning plasma experiment. 3 . 2
   High Beta Stability Assess potential of and Disruption Mitigation
   Spherical Torus as a Develop and assess high-beta basis for burning
   instability feedback control plasma studies and/or methods and
   disruption fusion-nuclear control/amelioration in the component
   testing. Advanced Tokamak, for pulse lengths much greater than energy
   Participate in an confinement times. international 3.3 Burning Plasma
   collaboration to construct a high-gain Develop and assess burning
   burning plasma plasma scenarios and potential experiment. next step
   burning plasma options utilizing domestic resources and working in
   concert with international collaborators. 25 11/2/00 Goal 4: Develop
   4.1 Plasma Technologies Continue to Test attractive enabling Develop
   enabling technologies develop required materials and technologies to to
   support the goals of the enabling technologies in a advance fusion
   scientific program outlined technologies. realistic fusion science;
   pursue above, including advanced environment. innovative methods for
   plasma Resolve key technologies and measurements, heating, current
   feasibility issues Participate in the materials to drive, and fueling;
   develop for new and operations of an improve the vision plasma facing
   components; study improved materials international for fusion energy;
   improvements in magnet and technologies by fusion test facility. and
   apply systems technology which could lead to testing and analysis to
   significant reductions in the cost computation. optimize fusion of
   fusion systems. development. 4.2 Advanced Design Perform a range of
   advanced MFE and IFE design studies to support the goals of the
   scientific program; assess the role of fusion energy in the context of
   all energy systems. 4.3 Fusion (Chamber) Technologies Demonstrate the
   scientific feasibility of innovative plasma chamber technologies for
   magnetic fusion energy; develop the database that demonstrates the
   safety aspects of fusion, including the ability to handle and process
   fusion fuels; assess facilities needs for this development, including
   opportunities for international collaboration. 4.4 Materials Advance
   the materials science base for the development of innovative materials
   and fabrication methods that will enable improved performance, enhanced
   safety, and reduced overall fusion system costs so as to permit fusion
   to reach its full potential; assess facilities needs for this
   development, including opportunities for international collaboration;
   support materials research needs for existing and near-term devices. 26
   11/2/00 Goals 5-Year Objectives Medium Term to 20 Years Goal 5: Advance
   the 5.1 Beam Target Interaction and Develop optimized target
   fundamental understanding Coupling designs based on and predictability
   of high Advance the understanding of driver information from the IRE
   energy density (HED) interaction and coupling in IFE targets to and NIF
   and other intertial plasmas for IFE, a level sufficient to determine
   tradeoffs fusion programs. leveraging from the ICF among driver beam
   focusing, absorption, target physics work x-ray production, beam-plasma
   sponsored by the National instability, and target preheat. Nuclear
   Security Agency's Office of Defense 5.2 Energy Transport and Programs.
   Symmetry Advance the understanding of energy transport to a level
   sufficient to determine the tradeoffs between the number of beams and
   chamber geometry, beam spatial profile, beam pointing accuracy and beam
   power balance, as well as hohlraum geometry for indirect drive. 5.3
   Implosion Dynamics and Equations of State (EOS) of Materials Advance
   the understanding of implosion dynamics and EOS of fusion materials to
   a level sufficient to determine the pulse shape and timing requirements
   for IFE targets. 5.4 Hydrodynamic Instability and Mix Advance the
   understanding of hydrodynamic instability and mix sufficient to
   determine the tradeoffs between techniques to optimize ablation
   stabilization as well as other approaches to reducing instability
   growth, and the driver requirements on intensity, spatial uniformity
   and pulse shaping. 5.5 Ignition and Burn Propagation Advance the
   integrated understanding of coupling, symmetry, pulse shaping, and
   instability sufficient to specify the optimal assembly of fuel for
   ignition and burn propagation subject to tradeoffs in driver, chamber
   and target fabrication specifications. 27 11/2/00 Goals 5-Year
   Objectives Medium Term to 20 Years Goal 6: Develop the 6. 1 Heavy Ion
   Beam Experiments Demonstrate that ion science and technology of and
   Supporting Accelerator beams and lasers can be attractive rep-rated IFE
   Technologies focused on a target in a power systems leveraging Perform
   single-beam, high-current reactor relevant chamber several from the
   work sponsored experiments to validate ion production, times a second
   with sufficient by the National Nuclear acceleration, and transport in
   a driver- intensities to obtain moderate Security Agency's Office
   relevant regime (line charge density 10- gain in an Engineering Test of
   Defense Programs. 100 times higher than in present Facility (ETF)
   experiments). Develop technologies to minimize the cost of these
   experiments Demonstrate that a rep- and the IRE. rated final-focus 6.2
   Integrated Ion Beam magnet/optics system can Modeling, Focusing and
   successfully operate in the Transport radiation environment Complete
   detailed end-to-end (ion source- characteristic of an ETF to-target)
   numerical simulations of the IRE and full-scale drivers, including
   Demonstrate the injection focusing and chamber transport, and of both
   direct and indirect compare model prediction with drive targets into a
   reactor experiments in heavy-ion beam relevant chamber and the low
   acceleration, drift compression, focusing cost manufacture of about and
   chamber transport. 10,000 representative targets. 6.3 K R F Laser
   Driver Demonstrate that reactor Development relevant materials can
   Build and test a >400-700 joule Krypton- successfully operate after
   Fluoride laser experiment capable of >6% exposure to 10% of the goal of
   wall plug efficiency, a single-beam neutron, x-ray, and target debris
   nonuniformity <1%, at 5 Hz pulse-rate exposure expected in an ETF for
   >105 shots, in a laser architecture that extrapolates to < $400/joule
   for a power Qualify materials for plant driver. Perform additional KrF
   candidate ETF chambers development required for a KrF IRE than can meet
   current safety and decision: KrF physics, improved direct-
   environmental standards drive target design, advanced front end for
   pulse shaping and zooming, improved optics coating for high damage
   threshold mirrors, and systems analysis. 6.4 DPSSL Laser Driver
   Experiment Carry out ETF design Build and test a >100 joule Diode
   Pumped studies Solid State Laser (DPSSL) experiment capable of >10% (1
   ) wall plug Complete the IRE program efficiency, a beam nonuniformity
   on to provide the economic, target < 0.1 to 1%, at 10 Hz pulse-rates
   scientific, and technological for >108 shots, in a laser architecture
   that foundations for full-scale driver extrapolates to < $400/joule for
   a power construction, allowing down- plant driver. Perform Supporting
   DPSSL selection of options. research needed in addition to a DPSSL
   experiment: lower cost diodes, improved DPSSL IFE target designs,
   improved crystal growth, and system integration and 28 11/2/00 scaling.
   6.5 IFE Chamber and Target Research Demonstrate feasibility of chamber
   clearing for thick-liquid-wall chambers, dry-wall chamber concepts that
   are tolerant of uncertainties in response of materials to fusion pulse
   and radiation damage, plausible designs for protecting final focusing
   elements for ion accelerator and laser drivers. Use existing pulsed x-
   ray z-pinch sources to study x-ray material response of IFE chamber
   materials. Evaluate safety and environmental aspects of IFE power
   plants and modify designs such that plants can meet the no-public-
   evacuation safety criteria, and credible pathways to low-cost target
   fabrication, accurate injection, and target survival through
   experiments and analyses. 6.6 IFE Concept Exploration Concept
   exploration (CE) level research should be performed on advanced drivers
   and targets that have potential for major improvements in IFE. Before
   proceeding to the descriptions of the goals and objectives, it is
   important to emphasize again that the fusion energy quest demands
   excellent science-it will fail without the nourishment of scientific
   advance and deep scientific understanding. At the same time, the fusion
   program has an extraordinary record in generating excellent
   science-bringing crucial insights as well as conceptual innovations to
   such disciplines as fluid mechanics, astrophysics, and nonlinear
   dynamics. A representative list of scientific questions is in Appendix
   III in areas of transport and turbulence, plasma fluid behavior,
   wave-particle interactions, plasma-wall interactions, beam and target
   physics and fusion technology. Most of the scientific advances
   engendered by fusion research have begun as discoveries about the
   behavior of the plasma state of matter. The central intellectual
   challenge posed by plasma physics is to find a tractable description of
   a many-body system, involving long-range interactions, collective
   processes, and strong departures from equilibrium. This challenge has
   stimulated a remarkable series of scientific advances, including the
   concept of collisionless (Landau) damping, the discovery of solitons,
   and the enrichment of research in chaos. The success that has been
   achieved has accelerated in the past few decades. Increasingly, the
   combination of experiment, analysis, and computation has led to
   scientific understanding with both explanatory and predictive power.
   Wider and more fruitful contact with related disciplines increasingly
   characterizes fusion research. Some recently proposed confinement
   schemes, for example, are inspired by astrophysical plasma phenomena.
   Similarly, advances in understanding plasma turbulence owe much to
   research in such areas as organized criticality and hydrodynamics.
   Perhaps most important is the growing community appreciation that
   improved contact with other areas of physics and science is essential
   to the continued progress of both MFE and IFE fusion research. The
   format for the Level 2 information in this section is as follows: * a
   statement of the FESAC goal followed by an explanatory description; * a
   statement of its supporting objectives; * an indication of how progress
   will be measured for
