http://www.ta.doc.gov/Speeches/BHW_011205_Telemed.htm

                            [TA Logo] [Testimony]


                "The Role of Telemedicine in Homeland Defense"
                Remarks by Benjamin H. Wu
                Deputy Under Secretary for Technology
                United States Department of Commerce

                         Delivered December 5, 2001
             Before the American Telemedicine Association (ATA)
                   Georgetown University Conference Center
                               Washington, DC

   Telemedicine is one of the primary technologies in the innovation and
   policy portfolios of the Technology Administration and the ATA is one
   of our most highly respected links to the private sector on this issue.

   The President has made homeland security a national priority and,
   presently, I can think of no more important application.

   Back in 1993, I staffed the first Congressional hearings on
   telemedicine.

   The purpose of that hearing was to showcase this new technology and its
   applications, with specific emphasis on its use during the Persian Gulf
   War.

   At that time, when the Internet was still in its nascency, the military
   was the lead user of telemedicine applications.

   By technology standards, it was so many generations ago, the concept of
   faxing prescriptions via a landline phone was even considered by some
   to be a telemedicine application!

   Since then much has changed.

   Technologically, under Moore's Law, we have evolved in dog years.

   The continuing advances of telemedicine innovation, and the direction
   of our nation following the September 11 terror attacks, have been
   perhaps the two most noteworthy developments related to today's topic.

   Similar to the call for a telemedicine response to the Gulf War, the
   Director for Homeland Security has called for a government-wide
   inventory of technologies and research.

   As a member of the Homeland Security Taskforce, Commerce Secretary Don
   Evans has tasked each of our bureaus with identifying relevant assets
   and technologies.

   I am proud to say that the Technology Administration has contributed
   much to both.

   Recognizing that one of ATA's expected outcomes for this forum is to
   share information among key stakeholders about telemedicine
   capabilities and interests, let me discuss the role of the Technology
   Administration (TA).

   TA has been viewed as the "portal" for private industry into the
   Federal government's policy world in three areas: technology, policy,
   and information.

   A vital TA component is the National Institute of Standards and
   Technology.

   NIST, our nation's oldest Federal laboratory, plays a key role in U.S.
   counter-terrorism and critical infrastructure protection.

   For example, NIST provides standards for the dose in x-ray security
   machines and for biometric identification, a promising security
   technology.

   NIST research focuses on standards for the detection of chemical and
   radiological weapons, and new methods of detecting concealed weapons at
   a distance.

   NIST also tests search-and-rescue robots, and helps in the retrieval of
   information from damaged and erased flight recorders.

   We intend to further strengthen NIST's role by promoting its cutting
   edge work within Secretary Evan's participation in the Homeland
   Security Council, working groups within the Administration, and
   throughout industry.

   Much of NIST's work in this area relates directly to the field of
   telemedicine, such as cyber-security, information infrastructure
   security, biometrics, rapid DNA mapping using "gene chips," and so on.

   With its unique mission of providing technical expertise to both
   government and industry, many have found NIST to be an effective and
   useful partner.

   TA also offers ATA members a "portal" into the policy arena.

   Getting policies right is essential because we cannot prevail in the
   War on Terrorism without leadership from the technology community.

   That leadership should be supported by sound government policy.

   The Technology Administration's Office of Technology Policy (OTP) has
   strong analytical capabilities, coupled with good working relationships
   with the private sector - allowing for thoughtful analysis of complex
   issues while generating fresh insights and new policy paths for the
   country.

   Not being directly related to a specific industry, unlike say NIH or
   the Department of Energy, our policy shop examines issues and solutions
   from many different and, at times, competing viewpoints.

   And a third Technology Administration component, the National Technical
   Information Service, offers numerous publications of homeland security
   which it terms the "National Terrorism Bibliography."

   All three of these portals can be accessed through the main TA website
   at www.ta.doc.gov.

   So, now you know what we in the Technology Administration can do, but
   how can you work with other agencies in a coordinated Federal response
   for homeland security?

   Since 1992, the Information Infrastructure Task Force (IITF), under the
   leadership of the Department of Commerce, was established to examine
   broad innovative uses of the Internet.

   It created the Health Information Application Working Group in early
   1994 with a subgroup that focused upon telemedicine.

   Today, the Joint Working Group on Telemedicine, chaired by Dena Puskin
   of HHS, is the primary inter-agency "task force" coordinating
   telemedicine policies and programs.

   I know that the Joint Working Group is reviewing ways to assist in
   coordinating a telemedicine response to homeland security.

   Additionally, the Joint Working Group on Telemedicine will likely have
   an increasingly broader responsibility for coordinating issues such as
   supply and demand, broadband, security, and privacy.

   At Commerce, we work closely with NTIA on telecommunications technology
   issues.

   NTIA has just announced $12.5M in grants for telemedicine and homeland
   security for FY2002.

   I understand that a good number of your members will be learning more
   of NTIA opportunities tomorrow and Friday at their "Networks for
   People" conference.

   Technology for homeland security has both a technology and a policy
   element as well.

   While NIST and other members of the Joint Working Group on Telemedicine
   will be funding research and development, and facilitating technology
   transfer with companies, our Office of Technology Policy will be
   analyzing and crafting policy options to foster innovation, enhance
   competitiveness, and address issues such as privacy, interoperability,
   and coordinating public health standards.

   ATA has also proposed the establishment of a Telemedicine/Telehealth
   Task Force within the Office of Homeland Security.

   It seems clear from this forum that such a Task Force is already
   beginning to take shape, with ATA being cast in a leading role.

   ATA is calling for "cost-effective, ubiquitous deployment of a wide
   spectrum of telecommunication services enabling telemedicine
   applications to be provided in all areas of the country and to the
   home."

   The competitiveness of telemedicine is directly related to the cost of
   telecommunications services.

   There are several major current policy issues that affect
   competitiveness now and into the future.

   The first issue relates to investment in facilities.

   The Telecommunications Act of 1996 requires that the Regional Bells
   share facilities with new competitors.

   The result has had a major impact on the cost of doing telemedicine.

   The increase in innovation, increase in small business start-ups and
   employment, and the decrease in cost of services have been viewed by
   many as their wish come true.

   On the other hand, the former Bell companies are asking if the 1996 Act
   actually limited their competitiveness and hampered innovation.

   Their response is the driving force behind the "Tauzin-Dingell Act"
   that you heard a great deal about on Monday.

   This is one of those subjects where, on the surface, there appears to
   be limited middle ground.

   Our analysis of the two sides of this issue has two purposes - what is
   the best solution to increase innovation and what is the best solution
   to increase competitiveness.

   The telemedicine industry will benefit from both greater innovation and
   greater competitiveness in the telecommunications industry.

   Stay tuned, because the outcome of this debate will have long-term
   consequences for every business that depends on telecommunications.

   At this time, let me make reference to an issue that is very important,
   and particularly timely, to the technology sector that is represented
   here this morning - and may very well have broad repercussions in the
   expansion of telemedicine.

   That issue is Trade Promotion Authority (TPA), which is scheduled for
   consideration by the House of Representatives this week.

   TPA will open new markets worldwide to American goods and services.

   The size and importance of technology exports cannot be understated,
   especially since the high-tech sector is the industry with the largest
   cumulative investment abroad and the sector is the largest merchandise
   exporter.

   Without Trade Promotion Authority, American negotiators are limited in
   their ability to pursue trade talks that would benefit American
   companies and workers in this technologically competitive global
   economy.

   TPA is the trade negotiating authority the Congress has granted to each
   of the previous five presidents.

   It has been an integral part of U.S. trade policy since it was first
   granted in 1974 and Congress should extend the authority to this
   President.

   ATA has also identified government and private sector funding for
   research and demonstrations as one of its priorities.

   Thank you for your time in allowing me to discuss TA's role in homeland
   security and telemedicine in a nutshell.

   I would welcome your questions or comments.

                                  [red bar]
   [TA] [About] [News & Views] [Publications] [Activities & Partnerships]
   [Honors] [Resources]
