http://www.treasurydirect.gov/sec/secpaydi.htm

   skip to main content
   T-Bills, Notes, and Bonds Home Page

   Public Debt Home Page

   Print this page

   Navigational Tool
   Click for text links

          Virtual Lobby| Upcoming Auctions | Recent Auctions: Bills
      Recent Auctions: Notes & Bonds | Secondary Market Rates | E-mail
                                   Reports

                                Pay Direct ®

   Better things to do?

   Buying your Treasury bill, note, or bond is a snap with Pay Direct.

   Convenient? Yes! You don't have to go to the bank or write a check.

   If you're a TreasuryDirect customer, you already have direct deposit,
   and Pay Direct operates the same, safe way -- but in reverse. Select it
   on your next tender, and we'll electronically collect the security's
   purchase price from your bank account.

   Of course, if you make your purchase through Buy Direct®, our
   convenient Internet or phone option, you automatically pay through Pay
   Direct.

The Pay Direct Advantage

   With Pay Direct, your money stays in your account until the day we
   issue the security. Because you don't have to mail a check in early,
   you can earn interest right up to the last minute.

   Plus, by allowing us to collect the exact purchase price, you ensure
   you won't have to wait for a discount payment, and you avoid the
   possibility of being billed for a premium or accrued interest.

   Best of all, we offer Pay Direct for free!

Who Can Use Pay Direct?

   Only existing TreasuryDirect customers may use Pay Direct; so if you
   haven't opened an account yet and you want to buy a security now,
   you'll have to pay by other means this time. Next time, you can use Pay
   Direct.

   As mentioned before, to use Buy Direct you must pay through Pay Direct.
   If you're an existing TreasuryDirect customer who hasn't used Buy
   Direct but wants to use it now, go ahead! When you opened your
   TreasuryDirect account, you gave us all the banking information we need
   to allow you to use Pay Direct.

The Pay Direct Process

   If you're already a TreasuryDirect customer, paying through Pay Direct
   is simple:
     * If you're using Buy Direct, it's automatic, as explained above.
     * If you're buying a security by submitting a Treasury Bill, Note &
       Bond Tender (PD F 5381), fill in the Pay Direct circle in the
       tender's Box #9, "Purchase Method."

   Whether you purchase via phone, Internet, or tender, we'll send you a
   Statement of Account shortly after we've issued the security.

Other Payment Options

   If you don't use Pay Direct, what are your alternatives? For bills, you
   can pay by certified personal check, cashier's check, matured Treasury
   securities, or a check issued to you by a Federal Reserve Bank. For
   notes or bonds, you can pay by personal check (it doesn't have to be
   certified) or any of the means shown above for bills. NOTE: We won't
   accept credit cards or two-party checks for any security.

                               Questions Forms

    Pay Direct and Buy Direct are registered trademarks of the Bureau of
                              the Public Debt.

                          Updated January 14, 2002
