http://www.attorneygeneral.gov/goven/index.cfm

   Government Index - Attorney General Home Government Index - Picture
   Government Index - Grid Government Index - Search, Sitmap, Contact Us
   Government Index Press Office Public Education Public Protection
   Criminal Law Special Features

                         PA State
                        Government
                        (full list)

   Pennsylvania State Government broken down in sections
                         Executive
                          Branch

                      State Agencies

                  Boards and Commissions

                  Education Related Links

                    Legislative Branch

                    Legislative Service
                         Agencies

                      Judicial Branch

                    Other State Related
                         Agencies

                         PA Local
                        Government

                        US Federal
                        Government

   Office of Attorney General
   Strawberry Square
   Harrisburg, PA  17120
   Phone: 717-787-3391
   Fax: 717-783-1107
   Email: info@attorneygeneral.gov

     [bullet.jpg] Pennsylvania State Government (full list)

     Pennsylvania State Government broken down in sections
     [bullet.jpg] Executive Branch
     [bullet.jpg] State Agencies
     [bullet.jpg] Boards and Commissions
     [bullet.jpg] Education Related Links
     [bullet.jpg] Legislative Branch
     [bullet.jpg] Legislative Service Agencies
     [bullet.jpg] Judicial Branch
     [bullet.jpg] Other State Related Agencies
     [bullet.jpg] Pennsylvania Local Government
     [bullet.jpg] United States Federal Government

   A Little Pennsylvania Background...
   Pennsylvania's rich cultural diversity and our pivotal role in American
   history dates back more than 300 years, when the Quaker, William Penn,
   established Penn's Woods as a haven for the oppressed. Settlers came
   here with a variety of ethnic backgrounds, savored their new freedoms
   and then put their lives on the line to preserve them.

   Pennsylvania became known as the Keystone State due to our key location
   in the center of the original 13 colonies. Therefore, it is not
   surprising that many of the events that formed the fabric of our nation
   happened right here in Pennsylvania.

   Indeed, our Commonwealth has a history that is rich in new beginnings -
   from the signing of the Declaration of Independence in Philadelphia to
   the rebirth of our nation on the Civil War battlefield at Gettysburg,
   to the important technological advancements that got their start during
   the Industrial Revolution.

   You can travel backwards in time and walk the same cobblestone streets
   in Philadelphia where Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson and George
   Washington walked. And a visit to Valley Forge National Historical Park
   gives you a taste of what life was like for George Washington and his
   troops during the American Revolution.

   On the other side of the Commonwealth, Colonel Henry Bouquet led his
   men to victory during the Battle of Bushy Run in the French and Indian
   War. Fort Pitt, which overlooks Pittsburgh's three rivers, was the site
   of a key battle in that war. Erie is the home port of one of the last
   remaining early 19th Century warships, the U.S. Brig Niagara. It served
   Commodore Oliver Perry well in his victory over the British in the war
   of 1812 and serves today with distinction as the Commonwealth's
   official flagship.

   Near Lancaster, the Conestoga wagon was introduced and gave pioneers a
   practical means to move into the wilderness and carve out new
   opportunities for themselves. Many of these pioneers stayed in
   Pennsylvania and found peace and harmony. And the Old Order Amish and
   Mennonites began to build close-knit communities that continue to
   flourish today.

   Another revolution was taking place as Pennsylvanians began to
   understand the promise of technology through the Industrial Revolution.
   In Wayne County, the first steam locomotive was introduced as the
   Stourbridge Lion. And in Fayette County, the first steamship was built.
   And in Oil Creek, near Titusville, the oil industry began in 1859.

   From Allentown, Scranton, Wilkes-Barre and Altoona came the coal - the
   fuel for the engines of the revolution, enhancing America's industrial
   might. And immigrants from cities such as Pittsburgh and Johnstown
   forged a nation from steel and iron - opening a new chapter in
   Pennsylvania's history, as well as the entire country. Even today, you
   can see working steel mills, coal mines and railroads preserved intact
   when you ride the Path of Progress in Southwestern Pennsylvania and
   learn more about our heritage at one of Pennsylvania's State Heritage
   Parks.

   As far back as 1815, adventurous Pennsylvanians journeyed to the
   unmatched beauty of the Pocono Mountains to enjoy fishing, swimming,
   hiking and sailing crystal-clear lakes.

   So, if you want to experience the best of America, begin your trip in
   Pennsylvania. Tour our bustling cities and charming rural towns. Enjoy
   our snowy mountains, scenic valleys and beautiful state parks. Explore
   our museums, shopping, nightlife and multi-cultural attractions. Marvel
   at our spectacular fall foliage. Ski down a mountain-side or through a
   wooded forest. Ride a roller coaster or an old-fashioned steam train.
   Swim, fish or sail in a crystal clear lake. Relive history in its
   immortal glory. And gain a better appreciation for America as it is
   today. Come to Pennsylvania.
   We have something for everyone...and then some!!
