http://www.nifl.gov/nifl/policy_legislation.html

   LINCSearch National Institute for Literacy Site Map
                                              Skip Navigational Links
                                              POLICY & LEGISLATION

                                                                About NIFL

   FAQs

   News & Events

   Programs & Services

   Policy & Legislation

   Publications

   Join Mailing List

   Contact NIFL

   For Other Literacy Resources, Go To LINCS


   Policy & Legislation

   NIFL acts as a policy information pipeline between the literacy field
   and federal and state lawmakers. Through briefings, one-on-one
   meetings, and other activities, NIFL staff serve as a resource to
   lawmakers responsible for determining policy and funding issues related
   to adult education and literacy. Staff also help all lawmakers and
   their staffs become generally more knowledgeable about literacy issues.

   NIFL also aims to keep the literacy field informed of federal
   legislative developments through regular publications called Policy
   Updates. Produce periodically throughout the year, the Policy Updates
   provide interesting and timely information about federal initiatives
   that may affect the literacy field. All interested persons are welcome
   to join our mailing list to receive these Policy Updates. Policy
   Updates are also posted to our web site on the day they are produced.

   In addition to the federal Policy Updates, NIFL offers periodic
   analyses of literacy policy and implementation issues affecting the
   states. We currently have State Policy Updates on topics such as
   English literacy and civics education, professional development for
   adult educators, state-level family literacy legislation, improvements
   in services to adults with disabilities, and distance learning. We also
   maintain a directory of State Policy Resources that includes available
   Internet links to each states Adult Education Office, State Plan for
   Adult Education, State Literacy Resource Center, Governor, and
   Legislature.

   Click here for more Policy & Legislation Resources


   NIFL HOME CONTACT NIFL ABOUT NIFL NATIONAL LINCS
