http://www.tva.gov/retireeportal/lifetimes/thomas.htm

   skip to main content TVA Logo Tennessee Valley Authority
                        Site Help Contact Us
   Search and Go Button __________________

   TVA Home About TVA Power System Environmental Stewardship River System
   Economic Development Investor Resources News & Media



   benefits volunteers lifestyles News return to retirees main



   Lifetimes

   Cecil Thomas
   When the Federal Emergency Management Agency and BVI joined forces for
   the first time to clean up the devastation from Hurricane Hugo in 1989,
   Cecil Thomas was in the thick of the action.

   By Fred Brown

   The moment Cecil Thomas retired as head of TVA’s Civil Engineering and
   Design group in July 1988, he began making travel plans with his wife,
   Reva. They loaded up their big van and started fantasizing about
   driving to destinations all over the country.

   But Mother Nature had other ideas.

   A year into Thomas’s retirement, the coasts of North and South Carolina
   were hit by one of the worst storms in U.S. history—Hurricane Hugo.
   Hugo was responsible for 65 deaths, the destruction of 17,000
   dwellings, and damage to another 140,000 buildings. It was the
   second-costliest hurricane in U.S. history, causing an estimated $9.5
   billion in losses.

   Meanwhile, life was good for Cecil and Reva Thomas. He’d put in 30
   years with the Tennessee Valley Authority, their two children were
   doing well in the professions of medicine and law, and it was time now
   for the couple to reap the rewards of their hard work.

   Travel had always been a big part of their lives. Cecil was a private
   pilot, flying the family to football games, and he and Reva took a trip
   every April to Augusta, Georgia, to satisfy their passion for golf at
   the Masters Golf Tournament.

   But in October 1989, the Federal Emergency Management Agency asked for
   his help, and suddenly he found himself in Charleston, South
   Carolina—not as a traveler exploring the city’s attractions, but as a
   volunteer worker surveying the devastation and wondering at the raw
   power of nature.

   The Hugo cleanup was the first time FEMA and TVA’s Bicentennial
   Volunteers Inc. joined forces to work on such a disaster, but it
   wouldn’t be the last. BVI, armed with a healthy supply of retired TVA
   employees, became a rich source of skilled assistance for FEMA.

   Thomas had been recruited by Helen Gray, then the BVI coordinator,
   who’d asked him to head for Charleston to help assess the damage.
   Sitting in the peaceful kitchen of his hilltop home in Chattanooga,
   Tennessee, he remembers his first glimpse of the destruction. “All the
   overhead road signs along the highway had been blown away,” he says.
   “The demand for city maps exceeded the supply. Navigating the city was
   a challenge.”

   At TVA, Thomas had been a structural engineer and had helped put
   together the agency’s first super-high-voltage line. His skills were
   needed now in Charleston. But just finding his way around was hard
   work, and most motels had closed their doors. Thomas and other
   volunteers had been told that there were plenty of sleeping
   accommodations on the ships in the harbor, so he spent his first night
   aboard the aircraft carrier Yorktown.

   Hugo was Thomas’s baptism by fire, but it was by no means his only job
   for BVI. He has worked floods in Pennsylvania and Virginia, mudslides
   in California and rainstorms in California state parks, and ice storms
   in Tennessee, Alabama, Texas, and North Carolina.

   Born in Cadiz, Kentucky, Thomas graduated from the University of
   Kentucky in 1956 and joined TVA in 1959. He and Reva, who have been
   married for 53 years, moved to Chattanooga in the 1960s and built their
   home 30 years ago.

   The house is a source of pride for Thomas and his wife. He says he
   followed his father’s advice and learned just enough to be able to do
   things the easy way. Step out on the sun porch and you’re treated to
   magnificent views of Lookout, Raccoon, Etna, and Signal Mountains.

   Each winter the Thomases travel to Yellowstone National Park to roam
   the trails on snowmobiles. They’ve also taken extended family trips to
   Alaska. But it never seems to be enough for Cecil. More and more he
   finds that he wants to be on the road with his family.

   “Judy Allen and Marilyn Murphree [BVI staff members in Muscle Shoals]
   have been wonderful,” he notes. “And I do get pleasure out of knowing
   that our work helps others.”

   But there are more pressing matters now, like the travel bug that won’t
   go away. And, of course, golf. “I’ve got a lot of things going,” Thomas
   says.

   On the other hand, who knows when Mother Nature will interfere next?

   top of page




   Photo of Cecil and Reva Thomas
   Cecil and Reva Thomas



   LifeTimes Archive
   Visit our archive page to read LifeTimes columns from past issues.



   left corner image

      Contact Us | Search | Legal Notices | Privacy Policy | Employment
       TVA Home | About TVA | Power | Environment | Rivers | Economic
                       Development | Investors | News

   right corner image
