http://www.hecb.wa.gov/intro/NewsDocs/PrvNotice.pdf

   PRIVACY NOTICE INTRODUCTION Thank you for visiting the Higher Education
   Coordinating Board (HECB) Web site and reviewing our Privacy Notice.
   This statement addresses collection, use and security of, and access to
   information that may be obtained through use of the HECB Web site. This
   notice covers the following topics: ÿ Information Collected and How it
   is Used ÿ Personal Information and Choice ÿ Public Access to
   Information ÿ Nondisclosure of Certain Personal/Private Information ÿ
   Review and Correction of Personally Identifiable Information ÿ Security
   ÿ Disclaimer ÿ Contact Information INFORMATION COLLECTED AND HOW IT IS
   USED Information collected if you only browse this site. If you do
   nothing during your visit to our Web site but browse, read pages, or
   download information, we will gather and store certain information
   about your visit. This information does not identify you personally. We
   automatically collect and store the following information about your
   visit: 1. The Internet Protocol Address and domain name used. The
   Internet Protocol Address is a numerical identifier assigned either to
   your Internet service provider or directly to your computer. We use the
   Internet Protocol Address to direct Internet traffic to you. This
   address can be translated to determine the domain name of your service
   provider. 2. The type of browser you used. 3. The date and time you
   visited the site. 4. The Web pages or services you accessed at this
   site; and 5. The Web site you visited prior to coming to this Web site.
   The information we automatically collect or store is logged and used by
   the HECB only to improve the content of our Web services and to help us
   understand how people are using our services. The HECB analyzes the
   information we log to determine how our Web site is being used, so that
   we may continually improve the site's usefulness to the public. What we
   collect if you volunteer information. If during your visit to our Web
   site you participate in a survey or send an email the following
   additional information will be collected: 1. The email address, and
   contents of the email, for those who communicate with the HECB via
   email. 2. Information volunteered in response to a survey 3.
   Information volunteered through an online form for any other purpose.
   The information collected is not limited to text characters and may
   include audio, video, and graphic information formats you send us. We
   use your email to respond appropriately. This may be to respond to you,
   address issues you may identify, further improve our Web site, or to
   forward the email to another agency or institution for appropriate
   action. PERSONAL INFORMATION AND CHOICE You may choose whether to
   provide personal information online. "Personal Information" is
   information about a natural person that is readily identifiable to that
   specific individual. Personal information includes such things as an
   individual's name, address, and phone number. A domain name or Internet
   Protocol address is not considered personal information. We collect no
   personal information about you unless you voluntarily provide it to us
   by sending us email, participating in an online survey, or completing
   an online form. You may choose not to contact us by email, participate
   in a survey, or to provide any personal information using an online
   form. Your choice to not participate in this activity will not impair
   your ability to browse the HECB Web site and read or download any
   information. If personal information is volunteered by the user, state
   law and the Federal Privacy Act of 1974 may protect it. However, this
   information is a public record once you provide it, and may be subject
   to public inspection and copying if not protected by federal or state
   law. If you believe that your personal/private information is being
   used for a purpose other than what was intended when submitted, you may
   contact the Webmaster as shown in the Contact Information Section of
   this statement. Users are cautioned that the collection of personal
   information requested from or volunteered by children online or by
   email will be treated the same as information given by an adult, and
   may be subject to public access. PUBLIC ACCESS TO INFORMATION In the
   state of Washington, laws exist to ensure that government is open and
   that the public has a right to access appropriate records and
   information possessed by state government. At the same time, there are
   exceptions to the public's right to access public records that serve
   various needs including the privacy of individuals. Exceptions are
   provided by both state and federal laws. All of the information
   collected at this site becomes public record that may be subject to
   inspection and copying by member of the public, unless an exemption in
   law exists. RCW 42.17.260(1) states that: Each agency, in accordance
   with published rules, shall make available for public inspection and
   copying all public records, unless the record falls within the specific
   exemptions of subsection (6) of this section [RCW 42.17.260(6)], RCW,
   42.17.310, 42.17.315, or other statute which exempts or prohibits
   disclosure of specific information or records. To the extent required
   to prevent an unreasonable invasion of personal privacy interests
   protected by RCW 42.17.310 and 42.17.315, an agency shall delete
   identifying details in a manner consistent with RCW 42.17.310 and
   42.17.315 when it makes available or publishes any public record;
   however, in each case, the justification for the deletion shall be
   explained fully in writing. In the event of a conflict between this
   Privacy Notice and the Public Records Act or other law governing the
   agency's disclosure of records, the Public Records Act or other
   applicable law will control. REVIEW AND CORRECTION OF PERSONALLY
   IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION You can review any personally identifiable
   information we collect about you by using the information in the
   "Contact Information" section at the end of this Notice. You may
   recommend changes to your personally identifiable information you
   believe to be inaccurate by submitting an email or written request that
   credibly shows the inaccuracy. We will take reasonable steps to verify
   your identity before granting access or making corrections. (RCW
   43.105.310) SECURITY The HECB, as developer and manager of the HECB Web
   site, has taken several steps to safeguard the integrity of its data
   and prevent unauthorized access to information maintained by the HECB.
   These measures are designed and intended to prevent corruption of data,
   block unknown or unauthorized access to our systems and information,
   and to provide reasonable protection of private information in our
   possession. This information should not be construed in any way as
   giving business, legal, or other advice, or warranting as fail proof,
   the security of information provided via agency Web sites. DISCLAIMER
   The HECB Web site has many links to other Web sites. These include
   links to Web sites operated by other government agencies, nonprofit
   organizations, and private businesses. When you link to another site,
   you are no longer on the HECB Web site and this Privacy Notice will not
   apply. When you link to another Web site, you are subject to the
   privacy policy of that new site. Neither the State of Washington, nor
   any agency, officer, or employee of the State of Washington warrants
   the accuracy, reliability, or timeliness of any viewpoints, products,
   or services linked from this system, and shall not be held liable for
   any losses caused by reliance on the accuracy, reliability or
   timeliness of such information. Portions of such information may be
   incorrect or not current. Any person or entity that relies on any
   information linked from this system does so at their own risk. CONTACT
   INFORMATION You may contact the HECB as follows: To review your
   personal information, or request correction of your personal
   information: Associate Director, Administrative Services Higher
   Education Coordinating Board 917 Lakeridge Way P.O. Box 43430 Olympia,
   WA 908504-3430 (360) 753-7800 FAX (360) 753-7808 TDD (360) 753-7809 To
   offer comments about the HECB Web site, or about the information in
   this Privacy Notice: Webmaster Higher Education Coordinating Board 917
   Lakeridge Way P.O. Box 43430 Olympia, WA 98503 (360) 753-7830 FAX (360)
   753-7808 Email: info@hecb.wa.gov
