http://www.usps.gov/news/2001/press/pr01_1010tips.htm


   United States Postal Service

   Skip Navigation  Home



            Online Services
                    Mailing
                   Shipping
          Buy Stamps & More
       Postage Rates & Fees

       Small Business Tools

            News and Events
           Government Links
                 About USPS

                               Keyword/Search

   __________________ Keyword  Search


                                                          October 17, 2001

                         USPS Message to Customers:
                    We Are Taking Every Possible Measure
                 To Assure Safety Of Customers And The Mail

    The Postal Service places the highest priority on the safety of its
   employees and customers and the security of the U.S. Mail. We are
   taking every possible measure to assure the safety of all. We are
   working tirelessly to keep the mail moving and to keep customers and
   our employees safe and secure.
    America's postal employees have done an outstanding job of keeping the
   mail moving since Sept 11. We have delivered more than 20 billion
   pieces of mail since the tragedy. It's important to remember that these
   are isolated incidents.
    While we are taking every possible precaution, we understand the
   importance of America's mail to its people and its economy and we will
   continue to deliver it.
    We are coordinating our efforts with the FBI and the Department of
   Health and Human Services. Our Chief Postal Inspector is working with
   the mailing industry to strengthen the security of business mailrooms.
   We have established a Mail Security Task Force on hazardous biological
   and chemical materials that will include our unions, management
   associations, major mailers, and senior postal managers.
    Now more than ever, America is depending on the Postal Service to keep
   the mail moving safely and securely. Everyone needs to mobilize common
   sense in dealing with this unfamiliar situation.
   The information below describes how to identify a suspicious mail piece
   and the procedures to follow:
    What constitutes a suspicious letter or parcel?


                                              SUSPICIOUS MAIL ALERT Poster
                                                           Download Poster
                                                   "SUSPICIOUS MAIL ALERT"
                                               PDF File 18" x 24" (126kb)*
                                                  Larger Image JPG (275kb)

   Some typical characteristics which ought to trigger suspicion include
   letters or parcels that:

     Have any powdery substance on the outside.

     Are unexpected or from someone unfamiliar to you.

     Have excessive postage, handwritten or poorly typed address,
   incorrect titles or titles with no name, or misspellings of common
   words.

     Are addressed to someone no longer with your organization or are
   otherwise outdated.

     Have no return address, or have one that can't be verified as
   legitimate.

     Are of unusual weight, given their size, or are lopsided or oddly
   shaped.

     Have an unusual amount of tape.

     Are marked with restrictive endorsements, such as "Personal" or
   "Confidential."

     Have strange odors or stains.
    What Should I do if I Receive an Anthrax Threat by Mail?

     Do not handle the mail piece or package suspected of contamination.

     Make sure that damaged or suspicious packages are isolated and the
   immediate area cordoned off.

     Ensure that all persons who have touched the mail piece wash their
   hands with soap and water.

     Notify your local law enforcement authorities.

     List all persons who have touched the letter and/or envelope. Include
   contact information and have this information available for the
   authorities.

     Place all items worn when in contact with the suspected mail piece in
   plastic bags and have them available for law enforcement agents.

     As soon as practical, shower with soap and water.

     Notify the Center for Disease Control Emergency Response at
   770-488-7100 for answers to any questions.
   The mail is safe! People shouldn't stop using the mail because of these
   isolated incidents. The simple act of paying attention to incoming mail
   will go a long way in keeping it safe and viable. Everyone, in the
   mailing community, as well as the American public, should exercise
   common sense.
   Additional information is available on the Postal Service's official
   web site at www.USPS.com

                                     ###

   *This file requires the latest version of the free Adobe Acrobat
   Reader. Click for Info/Tips/Download.


   POSTAL INSPECTORS Preserving the Trust POSTAL INSPECTORS Preserving the
   Trust


    site map  |  contact us  |  FAQs  |  search  |  keywords
   Copyright © 1999-2002 USPS. All Rights Reserved. Terms of Use Privacy
   Policy
