http://www.outlook.noaa.gov/98hurricanes/

   NOAA Logo
   '98 Hurricane Highlights
   Hurricane Images
   Media Information
   Hurricane Research

                                                    1998 Hurricane Season

                           1998: A "MEAN" SEASON FOR
                             ATLANTIC HURRICANES

   NOAA scientists say that the 1998 hurricane season brought an
   above-average number of hurricanes and tropical storms -- including the
   devastating Hurricane Mitch -- making it the deadliest Atlantic region
   season in more than 200 years in terms of storm-related fatalities. A
   contributing factor to the increased activity -- 50 percent more
   hurricanes and 30 percent more tropical storms than normal -- was a
   climate phenomenon called La Niña, cooler-than-average sea-surface
   temperatures in the central tropical Pacific.

   In a joint Aug. 4 outlook, forecasters at NOAA's Climate Prediction
   Center, National Hurricane Center and Hurricane Research Division
   correctly predicted above normal tropical storms and hurricanes in the
   Atlantic between August and October. The Atlantic season, which runs
   June 1 to Nov. 30, spawned 14 tropical cyclones (average is 10) with
   ten becoming hurricanes (average is six). Almost all of these storms
   and hurricanes occurred subsequent to the forecasts. There were $3.2
   billion in insured damages and 21 deaths in the United States.

   "The art of forecasting is better than ever, thanks to our talented
   people and our investment in science and technology," said Secretary of
   Commerce William M. Daley. "Nevertheless, events of this Atlantic
   hurricane season are sobering. Our thoughts and prayers are with the
   hundreds of thousands of people affected by the hurricane season. I am
   deeply saddened by the tragic loss of life and property and the
   enormous economic losses. They are a reminder that we need to continue
   the momentum of modern forecasting, hurricane awareness for everyone
   from policymakers to families, communications designed to reach even
   the remotest of villages, and building disaster resistant communities."

   "Our investment in technology has enhanced our ability to make better
   hurricane predictions," said D. James Baker, NOAA administrator. "We,
   as a nation, need to continue striving toward better hurricane track
   forecasts. The payoff is less disruption caused by needlessly
   evacuating areas that aren't affected, and longer lead times in which
   to evacuate people and safeguard property in areas that are."

   "The season started a little late with Tropical Storm Alex on July 27,
   but made up for lost time," said Jerry Jarrell, director of the
   National Weather Service's National Hurricane Center. "In a remarkable
   span of 35 days between Aug.19 and Sept. 2, 10 named tropical storms
   formed. That's nearly a whole year's worth of activity crammed into
   little more than a month."

   The year tallied seven landfalling storms in the continental United
   States, including Hurricanes Bonnie, Earl, Georges, Frances and Mitch
   (the last two were downgraded to a tropical storm on landfall) and
   Tropical Storms Charley and Hermine.

   The 1998 Atlantic season was the deadliest in more than 200 years. Not
   since the hurricane of 1780 that struck Martinique, St. Eustatius and
   Barbados (Oct. 10-16, 1780), killing between 20,000 and 22,000, has the
   Atlantic hurricane basin seen storm- related fatalities like those of
   Hurricane Mitch (Oct. 21-Nov. 5). Wire services attribute some 11,000
   deaths to Mitch, with thousands more missing.

   In this "mean" season, Mitch, a Category 5 monster, registered average
   sustained winds near 180 mph (Oct. 25) with gusts well over 200 mph.
   Mitch was the fourth most intense hurricane ever observed in the
   Atlantic basin this century based on barometric pressure, and the
   strongest ever observed in the month of October. (For additional
   details, see the National Climatic Data Center's Web site at
   http://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/ol/reports/mitch/mitch.html

   During the 1998 season, NOAA scientists, working with NASA and
   University
   collaborators, conducted the most complete and sophisticated campaign
   of observations in hurricanes ever, noted Hugh Willoughby, director of
   NOAA's Hurricane Research Division.

   "In Bonnie, Danielle and Georges, we had six or seven aircraft
   observing the same hurricane simultaneously," Willoughby said.
   "Advanced observational instrumentation and remote sensing technology
   aboard NOAA's Gulfstream-IV high altitude jet and WP- 3D airplanes make
   each of these platforms an airborne laboratory, vastly more capable
   than those flying just a couple of decades ago. We can study and
   understand hurricanes on all scales, from a single raindrop to
   hemisphere-wide winds that control the storm's motion."

   NOAA's hurricane forecasting technology includes sophisticated super
   computers and their numerical models, observational systems such as the
   GOES satellites, and "hurricane hunter" aircraft that include a new
   Gulfstream-IV jet and two WP-3D Orion turboprops.
