http://t14web.lanl.gov/Research/TDAC2000/sewell.atomistic.00.pdf

   Theoretical Division - Self-Assessment Special Feature Detonation
   Theory & Application, T-14 April 2000 Atomistic Simulations of
   Self-Organization in MDI Hard Domains Thomas D. Sewell Atomistic
   simulations have been performed under the between urethane groups on
   different molecules (strong auspices of an LDRD/DR* project on the
   Science of hydrophilic interactions), while the hydrophobic regions
   Polymer Aging to understand the competition between of the molecules
   tend to align so as to maximize overlap hydrogen bond registration and
   van der Waals packing between phenyl rings and/or the alignment of the
   central among Bis-1,1'(methylphenyl-4-carbamate) molecules methyl
   carbon atoms. (We speculate that the hydrogen (MDI), which comprise the
   urethane "hard segment" in bond chains and phenyl ring stacking are the
   dominant Estane, a segmented poly(ester urethane) copolymer used
   drivers in this segregation.) Although the registration and as a binder
   consitituent in certain plastic-bonded explosive stacking motif is
   imperfect, it is highly suggestive that these interactions lead to
   local ordering in an annealed materialalthough probably not
   crystallizationand The calculations provide insight into the provides
   important insight into the level of detail needed physical driving
   forces that govern the for our coarse-grained models of the hard
   segment in extent of self-organized packing or Estane. Planned
   extensions to this work include treatment crystallization of the
   chevron-shaped MDI of larger numbers of molecules and imposition of
   three- units, which has been the subject of dimensional periodic
   boundaries. speculation in the literature [1]. formulations. Estane is
   thought to undergo microphase segregation into MDI-rich "hard domains"
   in a "soft" matrix of polyester, with the hard domains serving as
   thermally labile physical crosslinks that enhance the elastomeric
   properties of the polymer. The calculations provide insight into the
   physical driving forces that govern the extent of self-organized
   packing or crystallization of the chevron-shaped MDI units, which has
   been the subject of speculation in the literature [1]. Moreover, the
   simulations help define the minimum level of detail required to
   reproduce that structure in complementary coarse-grained simulations
   for Estane. The calculations were accomplished using software from
   Molecular Simulations, Incorporated (MSI) in conjunction with the
   Polymer Consistent Force Field (PCFF). A "droplet" comprised of twenty
   methoxy-capped MDI units was constructed by positioning randomly
   oriented MDIs close to one another and then performing constant
   temperature molecular dynamics (300 K) for a period of 2 ns. A snapshot
   of the final configuration from the *LDRD/DR (Laboratory Directed
   Research & simulation is shown in the figure. All non-amine hydrogen
   Development/ Directed Research). atoms and terminal methyl carbons have
   been removed for clarity. From the figure, one can easily see that [1]
   L. M. Leung and J. T. Koberstein, J. Poly. Sci. B Poly. Phys. 23, 1883
   (1985). hydrophobic/hydrophilic interactions are important. There is a
   clear tendency to form hydrogen-bond chains A U. S. Department of
   Energy Laboratory sewell@lanl.gov This paper is a portion of
   LA-UR-00-1. Los Alamos
