http://www-library.ncifcrf.gov/fulltextres.htm

   [USEMAP:newt.gif]

                                 [line.jpg]

                          Other Full-Text Resources

   Books    |   Journals    |   Preprint Servers/Archives   |   Reference
                             Linking Initiatves

   BOOKS & REFERENCE DATABASES
     * - Web version of McGraw-Hill Encyclopedia of Science & Technology,
       with articles and illustrations, definitions of scientific terms
       from McGraw-Hill Dictionary, biographical sketches and study
       guides. Click on "Subscriber Log-in."(NCIF)

     * ALEX Catalog of Electronic Texts - Includes over 700 literature
       books in the public domain.

     * Books-in-Print - In addition to Books-in-Print, contains Subject
       Guide, Forthcoming Books, and Children's Books. Includes
       out-of-print titles and publisher information from Publishers,
       Distributors, & Wholesalers of the United States. (NIH/NCIF)

     * Britannica Online - "Premium" full-text access to the web version
       of Encyclopedia Britannica. (NCIF)

     * Bartleby.com - A searchable database of a selection of reference
       books, currently available free of charge. Includes Gray's Anatomy,
       American Heritage Book of English Usage, Columbia Encyclopedia,
       Bartlett's Familiar Quotations, Roget's Thesaurus, Strunk's
       Elements of Style.

     * Cochrane Library - Reviews summarize outcomes across randomized
       controlled clinical trials to determine effectiveness of healthcare
       interventions. Select "Enter" without a user name & password.
       (NIH/NCIF)

     * Current Protocols Library - Searchable full-text web versions of 12
       Current Protocols titles including Cell Biology, Cytometry, Human
       Genetics, Immunology, Magnetic Resonance Imaging, Molecular
       Biology, Nucleic Acid Chemistry, Pharmacology, Protein Science and
       Toxicology. Click on "Online TOC" to access. (NIH/NCIF).

     * Cytokine Reference - Web version of the reference text, Cytokine
       Reference, edited by Joost Oppenheim and Marc Feldmann. (NCIF)

     * Electronic Text Center - Offers over 5,000 public domain texts,
       including literature, manuscripts and newspapers from 1500 to the
       present.

     * Encyclopedia of Life Sciences - From Nature Publishing, contains
       peer-reviewed & continually updated articles in the biological
       sciences. (NIH/NCIF)

     * Encyclopedia of Virology - Web version of the reference text,
       Encyclopedia of Virology, 2nd ed. (NCIF)

     * GrayLIT Network - Portal to Federal gray literature, with
       information on over 100,000 full-text reports located at DOE, DOD,
       EPA & NASA. Useful for searching hard-to-class information without
       needing to know sponsoring agency.

     * Harrison's Online - Online version of Harrison's Principles of
       Internal Medicine. Click on "Subscriber Log-in" to use database. Be
       sure to click on "Log-out" at end of session. (NIH/NCIF)

     * Internet Public Library - Online Texts Collection - The collection
       on a wide range of topics contains over 14,000 titles searchable or
       browsable by author, title or keyword.

     * Linscott's Directory of Immunological and Biological Reagents -
       Sources for immunological products and services. (NIH/NCIF)

     * LWWOncology - Publisher requires individual users at NIH sites to
       complete a one-time registration form. Click on "GO" under New
       Members to register and select your username and password. Includes
       full-text of selected primary medical references including Cancer:
       Principles & Practices of Oncology, 6th ed. (NIH/NCIF)

     * MD Consult - A searchable database of over 35 medical reference
       textbooks, including Mandell's Principles & Practice of Infectious
       Diseases, 5th ed., Goldman's Cecil Textbook of Medicine, and more.
       Also a resource for over 46 full-text journals which are included
       in the Library's Online Journals list. Click on "Open Generic
       Edition," then "Reference Books."(NIH/NCIF)

     * National Academy Press - Includes over 2,500 books published by the
       NAP.

     * Natural Medicines Comprehensive Database - Updated daily,
       searchable by ingredient, scientific, common or brand name; covers
       herbal medicines, supplements, vitamins, minerals, & natural
       medicine. (NCIF)

     * On-Line Books Page - A searchable database of over 15,000 listings
       on a wide range of topics, "Books On-Line." The site is edited by a
       researcher affiliated with the University of Pennsylvania.

     * Project Gutenberg - One of the first electronic text projects on
       the Web with over 2,500 public domain titles.

     * Prokaryotes - Web version of The Prokaryotes, a primary resource
       for the microbial community. Click on "Access The Prokaryotes
       (subscribers only)." (NCIF)

                                 [lline.jpg]

   JOURNALS
   In addition to the library's list of Online Journals, other full-text
   article resources are available, some free to all, others restricted by
   licensing agreements to NCI-Frederick or NIH sites. Journal titles
   subscribed to by NIH Libraries in IDEAL and ScienceDirect are also
   listed in the Library's online journals list.
     * Academic Press - Browse the complete list of full-text IDEAL titles
       available to staff at NCI-Frederick and other participating NIH
       institutions from 1996 to present (some available 2000-present).
       Titles to which the NIH libraries subscribe are included in the
       Scientific Library's Online Journals list. For contents, abstracts,
       and other services of other Academic Press titles, visit the IDEAL
       Online Library. (NIH/NCIF)
     * BioMedNet - Web resource for the biology and medical community with
       some free services. Registration is required, but there is no
       charge to join. Includes some free journal articles or trial
       periods.
     * ChemWeb - Web resource for the chemistry community. Registration is
       required, but free to join. Includes selected free journal articles
       and services.
     * Free Medical Journals.com - The Free Medical Journals Site is
       dedicated to the promotion of free access to medical journals over
       the Internet. (see comments in Science and the British Medical
       Journal).
     * InfoTrac - Contains "General Reference Center Gold," 1980-present,
       a general interest/business datatabase indexing magazines,
       newspapers, and reference books; "Health Reference Center,"
       1997-present, a general health database with fitness, public
       health, medicine, HMOs, etc. (NCIF)
     * JSTOR - A digital archive of back issues of important scholarly
       journals in a number of subject areas with 117 titles in the Arts &
       Sciences collection and 7 titles in the General Science Collection.
       Archived issues begin 3-5 years back from the most recent issue.
       (NIH/NCIF)
     * MD Consult - This database of full-text clinical information
       (including major clinical reference texts) provides access to
       approximately 46 full-text journals. Click on "Open Generic
       Edition," then "Journal Search." Next, copy/paste exact title from
       list of MD Consult journals into Search box, adding [jn] to end of
       title. Click on "Search." (e.g. American Heart Journal [jn].)
       (NIH/NCIF)
     * ScienceDirect - From Elsevier Science, a searchable database of
       over 1,000 additional full-text journals. Over 300 titles are
       included in the Library's Online Journals list. Click on
       "Publications," then select a title. (Titles with green book symbol
       next to them are available.) Choose "Personal Login" if you wish to
       create a personal profile. (NIH/NCIF)

                                 [lline.jpg]

   PREPRINT SERVERS / OTHER FULL-TEXT ARCHIVES
     * American Mathematical Society Preprint Server - A world-wide
       collection of Mathematical Preprint and e-Print Servers allows
       browsing of posted articles and in some cases, posting of articles.
     * BioMed Central (BMC) - Designed to complement PubMed Central, BMC
       is a new Internet-only commercial publishing house, part of the
       Current Science Group; works closely with the biomedical community
       (including NCBI, ISI ResearchSoft, & Wolfram Research) to develop
       services for researchers. Began accepting peer-reviewed research
       articles in biology and medicine via its online manuscript
       submission system on May 22, 2000 with open access for all. BMC's
       aim is to place all research published on BMC on PMC in full and
       without delay; help and tools are provided to groups of researchers
       for starting a publication through BMC under their own editorial
       control. See Frequently Asked Questions at BMC for more
       information.
     * Chemistry Preprint Server (CPS) - From ChemWeb, a freely available
       web archive & distribution medium for chemistry research articles
       with abstracts & full-text. Submission to CPS is open to all and
       can include fully prepared articles or works in progress. CPS is
       involved with the Open Archive Initiative and is modelled on the
       Los Alamos archives covering physics and related fields.
     * HighWire Press - One of the two largest archives of free full-text
       science articles. Check this site for available High Wire Press
       titles, free back isses, free trial periods & free sites.
     * The Lancet - Electronic Research Archive - Launched in September,
       1999, an experimental free, searchable electronic research archive
       (ERA) in international health, owned by authors, administered by
       The Lancet. Designed for electronic publication of unreviewed and
       expanded published papers, and for open comment on these papers.
     * NetPrints - Launched in December, 1999, NetPrints provides a place
       for authors to post medical and health research articles before,
       during, or after peer review by other agencies.
     * PubMed Central (PMC) - Sponsored by NIH to create a free, public,
       "barrier-free repository for peer-reviewed primary research reports
       in the life sciences," began accepting journal articles in January,
       2000. Coordinated with research published on BioMed Central, free
       full-text of articles in PMC can be viewed as HTML and as PDF. PMC
       will not accept publications directly from authors, but new and
       existing publishers will be able to participate by making their
       peer-reviewed original content available through the PMC archive.
       Features links from citations to PubMed abstracts, figures sized
       for on-screen viewing, and support for supplementary information
       (data tables, streaming video, and high-resolution images).
       Additional journals and issues will be added as they become
       available.
     * ScienceMedCentral (SMC) - An expansion of Biological Procedures
       Online, a journal from the Faculty of Science at the University of
       Waterloo, Canada, SMC publishes 4 peer-reviewed, free-access
       journals covering all fields of medicine, biology, chemistry &
       physics; created by and for medical professionals & researchers as
       a scholarly communication tool.
     * Sociosite/ICAAP Journals Database - A database of full-text freely
       available, peer-reviewed scholarly publications in fields of social
       sciences, and humanities.

                                 [lline.jpg]

   REFERENCE LINKING INITIATIVES - These allow linking from references
   within HTML articles directly to the full-text of subscribed titles.
     * ACS Web Editions - Subscribers to ACS web editions can link from
       references in ACS journal articles (HTML) directly to abstract and
       bibliographic information for the referenced article at Chemical
       Abstract Services (CAS).
     * CrossRef - A collaboration between scientific, technical, and
       medical publishers to link from cited references in participating
       publisher's articles to full-text of cited articles on other
       participating publisher's web sites.

                            line.jpg (1660 bytes)

                                  [top.gif]

       NCI-Frederick. Questions or comments: library@mail.ncifcrf.gov
                                Last updated:
