http://www.pueblo.gsa.gov/media-promo.htm

                                  Wednesday
                              January 30, 2002


                                   Topics
   Cars -- Buying, Selling, Car Maintenance, Insurance
   Children -- Learning, Parenting
   Computers -- Buying, Getting On-line
   Education -- School Loans, Planning for College, Alternative Ways to
   Earn a Degree
   Employment -- Tips on finding a job, Occupation information, Workplace
   rights, Pensions
   Federal Programs -- Social Security, Medicare, Veteran's Benefits,
   Buying Government Property
   Food -- Nutrition for better health, Safe food handling and preparation
   Health -- Drugs and Health Aids, Dieting and Nutrition, Medical
   Problems
   Housing -- Financing and Sales, Home Maintenance
   Money -- Credit, Saving, Investing, Retirement Planning, Protecting
   your money
   Small Business -- Starting a Business, Small Business Administration,
   Patents and Copyrights
   Travel -- Foreign Travel Requirements, National Parks, Travel Advice,
   Flying rights and advice
   And more... -- Having trouble finding something? Check here or go to
   our search!

                                  Resources
   Consumer Action Website -- Tips, advice, listings of what to do and who
   to call with a consumer problem
   Image of a button linking to the National Contact Center
   Image of a button linking to FirstGov for Kids
   Recalls -- Federal and Private Sector Recalls on Products
   Scams and Frauds -- A listing of the latest scams and recalls announced
   by Federal Agencies and Consumer Groups

   Subscribe to FCIC
    news and media
    e-mail updates!

   Image linking to FirstGov "Your first click to the U.S. Government"




                              FCIC Home Page
   Search Page In The News Page Press Room Page FAQ Page Shop Site Links
   Page About Us Page Fun Stuff
   Animated promotion image
                              FCIC Media Clips
   AARP Bulletin  - Special Report: Your Insured Money  - February, 2002
   Parade Magazine - Make Sure Your Money Is Insured - January 20, 2002
   Parade Magazine - Free Health Guides - January 6, 2002
   USA Today - Cooking for New Year's? - December 26, 2001
   USA Today - Cooking for a Holiday Party? - December 12, 2001
   Associated Press -Seniors' Financial & Medical Fitness Kit - November
   27, 2001
   Parade Magazine - How To Buy Safe Toys - November 4, 2001
   Parade Magazine - Perilous Playgrounds - September 23, 2001
   Parade Magazine - Freebie Bonanza - September 2, 2001
   Parade Magazine - Free Financial Advice - July 29, 2001
   Parade Magazine - Inside dot.com - June 24, 2001
   Parade Magazine - May 21, 2001
   Information for Special Kids - April 2001
   Denver Post - April 9, 2001
   Miami Herald - April 1, 2001
   Country Accents Magazine - April/May, 2001
   Kiplinger's Personal Finance - March, 2001
   Forbes Best of the Web - February 26, 2001
   Washington Consumers' Checkbook - Winter/Spring 2001
   The Press-Enterprise - January 1, 2001
   The Onion - November 15, 2000
   Washington Times - November 14, 2000

   [aarp_logo.gif]  Bulletin
   February, 2002

                     Special Report: Your Insured Money

   Seventy years ago, if a bank failed, you could have lost everything.
   Today, deposits in a single institution are insured by the government
   for up to $100,000or more, in fact, if the money is divided among
   different categories of accounts. But qualifying for this extra
   coverage can be complicated. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
   (FDIC) wants consumers to read the fine print, especially if they have
   more than $100,000 on deposit in one bank. For details, check out the
   FDIC booklet Special Report: Are You Sure You're Fully Insured?

   To get your free booklet, and a free catalog listing more than 200
   valuable consumer publications, just fill in your name and address on
   our special order form or call toll free 1-888-8-PUEBLO, (that's
   1-888-878-3256) and ask for "Special Report:  Are You Sure You're Fully
   Insured?" Image linking to top of page.

   Go To Parade   Magazine

   January 20, 2002

                       Make Sure Your Money Is Insured

   Seventy years ago, if a bank failed, you could have lost everything.
   Today, deposits in a single institution are insured by the government
   for up to $100,000or more, in fact, if the money is divided among
   different categories of accounts. But qualifying for this extra
   coverage can be complicated. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
   (FDIC) wants consumers to read the fine print, especially if they have
   more than $100,000 on deposit in one bank. For details, check out the
   FDIC booklet Special Report: Are You Sure You're Fully Insured?

   To get your free booket, and a free catalog listing more than 200
   valuable consumer publications, just fill in your name and address on
   our special order form or call toll free 1-888-8-PUEBLO, (that's
   1-888-878-3256) and ask for "Special Report:  Are You Sure You're Fully
   Insured?" Image linking to top of page.

   Go To Parade   Magazine

   January 6, 2002

                             Free Health Guides

   Millions of Americans rely on drugs, but mixing medicines can be
   deadly. New booklets from the FDA and the Council on Family Health Care
   tell how to take drugs safely. Sign up and get your copy of Be An
   Active Member of Your Health Care Team and Drug Interactions: What You
   Should Know.

   To get your free package, and a free catalog listing more than 200
   valuable consumer publications, just fill in your name and address on
   our special order form or call toll free 1-888-8-PUEBLO, (that's
   1-888-878-3256) and ask for "Be an Active Member of Your Health Care
   Team" and "Drug Interactions". Image linking to top of page.

   USA Today logo and link Cooking for New Year's?

   December 26, 2001

   If you're planning to cook for a lot of people this New Year, Cooking
   for Groups is a must have. This booklet, from the Food Safety and
   Inspection Service, will teach you how to cook and serve food safely
   and avoid food-borne illness.

   To get your free booklet, and a free catalog listing more than 200
   valuable consumer publications, call toll free 1-888-878-3256 and ask
   for "USA Today - Cooking for Groups". Image linking to top of page.

   USA Today logo and link Cooking for a Holiday Party?

   December 12, 2001

   If you're planning to cook for a lot of people this holiday season,
   Cooking for Groups is a must have. This booklet, from the Food Safety
   and Inspection Service, will teach you how to cook and serve food
   safely and avoid food-borne illness.

   To get your free booklet, and a free catalog listing more than 200
   valuable consumer publications, call toll free 1-888-878-3256 and ask
   for "USA Today - Cooking for Groups". Image linking to top of page.

   Associated Press Banner and Link Seniors' Financial & Medical Fitness
   Kit

   November 27, 2001

   The Federal Consumer Information Center has collected a free package of
   publications covering a variety of important topics for seniors and
   their families. The package includes publications on Medicare,
   financial and estate planning, home safety, coping with arthritis,
   eating healthy and more.

   You'll also receive the new 2002 edition of the Consumer Action
   Handbook, 156 pages of practical, helpful tips and resources to contact
   when you have a consumer problem.

   To get your free package, and a free catalog listing more than 200
   valuable consumer publications, just fill in your name and address on
   our special order form, or call toll free 1-888-878-3256 and ask for
   "Seniors' Financial & Medical Fitness Kit". Image linking to top of
   page.

   Go To Parade   Magazine

   November 4, 2001

                            How To Buy Safe Toys

   The Federal Consumer Information Center is offering a free copy of "Fun
   Play, Safe Play." This book helps you discover the importance of play
   in your child’s learning and development and how to buy safe toys.

   To get your free book, and a free catalog listing more than 200
   valuable consumer publications, just fill in your name and address on
   our special order form or call toll free 1-888-8-PUEBLO, (that's
   1-888-878-3256) and ask for "Children" Image linking to top of page.

   Go To Parade   Magazine

   September 23, 2001

                             Perilous Playground

   Backyard playgrounds can be dangerous for kids. The Consumer Product
   Safety Commission advises you to:
     * Always supervise young children.
     * Spread protective material (mulch, shredded rubber, etc.) at least
       9 inches thick under and around all equipment.
     * Never use ropes or cords to make homemade swings.
     * Cover bolts and sharp edges.

   To get a free playground checklist, along with 2 bonus child safety
   publications, and a free catalog listing more than 200 valuable
   consumer publications, just fill in your name and address on our
   special order form, or call toll free 1-888-8-PUEBLO, (that's
   1-888-878-3256) and ask for "Playground Safety". Image linking to top
   of page.

   Go To Parade   Magazine

   September 2, 2001

                               Freebie Bonanza

   The Federal Consumer Information Center has collected 12 of its most
   helpful free guides in a special "bonanza package." Want safety tips
   for buying medicines online, a guide to long-term savings plans, or
   help with purchasing life insurance. All are included, as well as
   information on Medicare, child protection tips, even advice for novice
   fishermen.

   To get Freebie Bonanza, your free package, and a free catalog listing
   more than 200 valuable consumer publications, just fill in your name
   and address on our special order form, or call toll free
   1-888-8-PUEBLO, (that's 1-888-878-3256) and ask for Bonanza. Image
   linking to top of page.

   Go To Parade   Magazine

   July 29, 2001

                            Free Financial Advice

   Ever wondered how to plan for your financial future? Want to set a
   spending plan but don't know-how? Mystified by terms like "zero coupon
   bonds"? The USDA Extension Service and MetLife offer a free pamplet
   "Building Financial Freedom" to improve your financial know how.

   But wait... There's more!

   We are also offering a FREE package of bonus publications, including a
   financial publication from the Department of Labor called "Savings
   Fitness."

   To get Building Financial Freedom, your free package, and a free
   catalog listing more than 200 valuable consumer publications, just fill
   in your name and address on our special order form, or call toll free
   1-888-8-PUEBLO, (that's 1-888-878-3256) and ask for Building Financial
   Freedom. Image linking to top of page.

   Go To Parade   Magazine

   June 24, 2001

                               Inside dot.com
                               BY LAMAR GRAHAM

   Sites You'll Like
     * www.nasm.edu - On July 1, the Smithsonian's National Air and Space
       Museum celebrates its 25th year. Visit this free site to view
       online versions of the museum's most popular exhibits, including
       "How Things Fly".
     * www.pueblo.gsa.gov - Got questions about a consumer product or
       government program? Visit the Federal Consumer Information Center
       to find free or low-cost publications on cars, health, housing,
       government benefits and more.

   Image linking to top of page.

   Go To Parade   Magazine

   May 21, 2001

                     Tips to Help the Elderly Eat Better

   We hear a lot about how too many sugary sodas and fast foods may be
   leading to record weight gains among kids and an epidemic of diabetes.
   But people of every age need to be concerned about their eating habits
   -- especially the elderly, for whom cooking is often a chore. Two free
   booklets can help seniors stay healthy: Growing Older, Eating Better
   (from the FDA) and Food Safety for seniors (from the FDA and FSIS).

   To get your free package and a free catalog listing more than 200
   valuable consumer publications, just fill in your name and address on
   our special order form, or call toll free 1-888-8-PUEBLO, (that's
   1-888-878-3256) and ask for the Food Advice package. Image linking to
   top of page.

                        Information For Special Kids

   Caring for children with special needs is rewarding and challenging. It
   takes a lot of planning and unique attention. Here's some help from a
   new, free package of publications from the Federal Consumer Information
   Center and the MetLife Consumer Education Center. Planning for Your
   Special Needs Child offers tips on everything from legal issues to
   planning for a child's financial, medical, and educational needs.
   Protecting Your Child helps you recognize potential dangers to
   children, and offers helpful tips to keep them safe and healthy.

   To get your free package and a free catalog listing more than 200
   valuable consumer publications, just fill in your name and address on
   our special order form, or call toll free 1-888-8-PUEBLO, (that's
   1-888-878-3256) and ask for the Special Kids package. Image linking to
   top of page.

           Denver Post Online logo and link Financial help online

   By Claire Martin
   Denver Post Staff Writer
   Monday, April 09, 2001 - www.cfp-board.org - Sponsored by a nonprofit,
   Denver-based regulatory organization whose governing board fosters and
   monitors professional standards in personal financial planning, this
   site includes links to local directories of financial planners.

   www.ivillagemoneylife.com - A collection of articles on establishing a
   debt-repayment plan, creating a budget and saving money, written by
   financial analysts and other advisers.

   www.pueblo.gsa.gov - From this, the homepage of the federal Consumer
   Information Center, click on the "Money' link in the left-hand column.
   Lots of practical advice, including how to order the free Planning
   Financial Security worksheet, a step-by-step guide to tracking your
   spending and creating a new budget.

   www.financenter.com - This is a consumer advocate Web site, with
   research on rates, fees, features and customer evaluations of online
   financial products and services. Among the site features: a retirement
   calculator and tax tutorials including how to calculate your deductions
   and taxable income. Image linking to top of page.

   Miami Herald logo
   ACTIONLINE
   Sunday, April 1, 2001

                               CONSUMER ALERT
   FRAUD ON THE INTERNET

   The Internet has made life easier for everyone – including crooks. Now
   they can reach thousands of people with a click of a button.

   Their phony offers have been around for years. They’re designed to
   sound great and bilk you out of a lot of money.

   Learn how to protect yourself with a new package from the Federal
   Consumer Information Center.
     * Get the facts on the top ten online scams from Dot Cons, a
       publication from the U.S. Federal Trade Commission. Find out how
       these scams lure you in and hook you.
     * Use Internet Fraud: How to Avoid Internet Investment Scams from the
       U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to learn where fraudulent
       investment opportunities are most likely to pop up, how you can get
       the facts on investment offers you receive, and where to turn if
       you run into trouble.
     * Use Ten Questions to Ask Before You Invest, also from the SEC, to
       protect yourself when investing and learn the warning signs of
       fraud.

   Be wary of extravagant claims. Get all promises in print and review
   them carefully before making a payment or signing anything. Read the
   fine print and review any relevant links you are given.

   Remember, anyone can set up a website or advertise online. Investigate
   the opportunity before investing your cash.

   Get written financial information such as a prospectus or annual report
   and check out the opportunity with a trusted financial advisor and the
   appropriate regulatory offices.

   This package costs a $1. To get yours:
     * Call toll-free 1-888-8 PUEBLO (1-888-878-3256) weekdays 9 a.m. to 8
       p.m. and ask for the Internet Fraud package. Have your credit card
       handy.
     * Send your name, address, and a check or money order for $1 to
       Internet Fraud, Pueblo, CO 81009.
     * Visit www.pueblo.gsa.gov and read or print these and hundreds of
       other FCIC publications for free. Image linking to top of page.


   Country Accents Magazine Picture of a safe home
   April/May 2001
   Is Your Home Safe?

   It's our natural instinct to protect our families and homes. To keep
   them safe from fires and carbon monoxide, there are a few things to do
   (and not do):
   space
   Site Map - Text Version -  Privacy Policy - Security Statement
   space

   This service is provided by the Federal Consumer Information Center of
     the U.S. General Services Administration. If you have a comment or
                question, e-mail us at catalog.pueblo@gsa.gov
     [gsa_logo.gif]

   [invisible.gif]
