http://www.coralreef.noaa.gov/releases/proposedguidelines.pdf

   Federal Register / Vol. 66, No. 237 / Monday, December 10, 2001 /
   Notices 63675 in the prior Federal Register Notices (65 DEPARTMENT OF
   COMMERCE received by NOAA on or before January FR 52069 and 66 FR
   58990). 14, 2002. Therefore, MBDA's prior Federal National Oceanic and
   Atmospheric ADDRESSES: Only written comments will Register notices (65
   FR 52069 and 66 FR Administration be accepted. Please send your
   comments 41202 and 66 FR 58990) are hereby [Docket No. 011113275127501;
   I.D. by mail or fax to: David Kennedy, amended to provide that the
   National 120401A] NOAA Coral Program Coordinator, Director or his
   designee reserves the Office of Response and Restoration, N/ RIN
   0648ZB11 right to conduct a site visit to applicant ORR, NOAA National
   Ocean Service, organizations receiving an average of at Coral Reef
   Conservation Program 1305 East-West Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910,
   Fax: 301-713-4389. least 70% of the total points available Proposed
   Implementation Guidelines for all four evaluation criterion in order
   FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Bill AGENCY: National Oceanic and to
   assist with the application of the Millhouser, Pacific Regional
   Manager, Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), CPD/OCRM, N/ORM-3, NOAA
   National selection procedures provided at 65 FR Commerce. Ocean
   Service, 1305 East-West 52083 and 52095 and 66 FR 59000. ACTION:
   Request for comments on Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910; The
   Department of Commerce Pre- Proposed Implementation Guidelines
   3017133155 extension 189, Internet: Award Notification Requirements for
   for the Coral Reef Conservation bill.millhouser@noaa.gov; or Robin
   Grants and Cooperative Agreements Program. Bruckner, Community-based
   Restoration contained in the Federal Register notice Coordinator, NOAA
   Restoration Center, of October 1, 2001 (66 FR 49917), are SUMMARY: The
   purpose of this document F/HC3, NOAA National Marine applicable to this
   notice. is to request comments on NOAA's Fisheries Service, 1315
   East-West proposed Implementation Guidelines Highway, Silver Spring, MD
   20910; Executive Order 12866: This notice (Guidelines) for the Coral
   Reef 3017130174 extension 162, Internet: was determined to be not
   significant for Conservation Program (Program) under
   robin.bruckner@noaa.gov. purposes of E.O. 12866. the Coral Reef
   Conservation Act of 2000 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Administrative
   Procedure Act: The (Act). The Act authorizes the Secretary provisions
   of the Administrative of Commerce (Secretary), through the I.
   Background Procedure Act requiring notice of NOAA Administrator
   (Administrator) The Coral Reef Conservation Act of proposed rulemaking,
   the opportunity and subject to the availability of funds, 2000 (16
   U.S.C. 6401 et seq.) was for public participation, and a delay in to
   provide matching grants of financial enacted on December 14, 2000, for
   the effective date, are inapplicable because assistance for coral reef
   conservation following purposes: this notice is a matter relating to
   public projects under the Act (Coral Reef (1) To preserve, sustain and
   restore property, loans, grants, benefits, or Conservation Program). As
   per the Act, the condition of coral reef ecosystems; contracts 5 U.S.C.
   553(a)(2), NOAA has developed this set of (2) To promote the wise
   management proposed Implementation Guidelines and sustainable use of
   coral reef Regulatory Flexibility Act: Because a for the Program for
   Fiscal Year (FY) ecosystems to benefit local communities notice of
   proposed rulemaking and 2002 through FY 2004. NOAA proposes and the
   Nation; opportunities for public comment are to use several existing
   grant programs (3) To develop sound scientific not required to be given
   for this notice and mechanisms to implement the information on the
   condition of coral by 5 U.S.C. 553 or by any other law, the Program.
   Final Guidelines and specific reef ecosystems and the threats to such
   analytical requirements of the Program information including available
   ecosystems; Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 601 funding, dates,
   and detailed application (4) To assist in the preservation of are
   inapplicable. requirements and proposal evaluation coral reefs by
   supporting conservation Executive Order 13132: This notice criteria
   will be published annually in a programs, including projects that
   involve affected local communities and does not contain policies with
   separate Federal Register solicitation. non-governmental organizations;
   Federalism implications as that term is NOAA is in the process of
   developing (5) To provide financial resources for defined in Executive
   Order 13132. a National Coral Reef Action Strategy (Strategy), as also
   required under the those programs and projects; and Authority: 15
   U.S.C. 1512 and Executive Act. The purpose of the Strategy is to (6) To
   establish a formal mechanism Order 11625. provide an implementation
   plan to for the collecting and allocating of monetary donations from
   the private Dated: December 4, 2001. advance coral reef conservation,
   sector to be used for coral reef Juanita E. Berry, including a basis
   for funding allocations to be made under the Program. The conservation
   projects. Federal Register Liaison Officer, Minority Under section 6403
   of the Act, the Business Development Agency. Final Strategy will be
   published Secretary, through the NOAA concurrently with the Final
   Program Ronald N. Langston, Administrator (Administrator) and
   Guidelines and the FY 2002 Program National Director, Minority Business
   subject to the availability of funds, is Solicitation in the first
   quarter of Development Agency. authorized to provide matching grants
   calendar year 2002. The Department of of financial assistance for coral
   reef [FR Doc. 0130416 Filed 12701; 8:45 am] Commerce Pre-Award
   Notification conservation projects. Section 6408(c)of BILLING CODE
   351021P Requirements for Grants and the Act authorizes up to $8,000,000
   in Cooperative Agreements contained in each of FY 2001 through FY 2004
   for the Federal Register notice of October 1, projects under the
   Program. 2001 (66 FR 49917), will be applicable As required under
   section 6403(j) of to solicitations under this Program. This the Act,
   NOAA has developed this set document is not a solicitation for FY of
   proposed Implementation Guidelines 2002 project proposals. for the
   Program and through this DATES: In order to be considered, document, is
   making them available for comments on this document must be public
   review and comment. VerDate 112000 16:13 Dec 07, 2001 Jkt 197001 PO
   00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 4703 Sfmt 4703 E:\FR\FM\10DEN1.SGM pfrm01 PsN:
   10DEN1 63676 Federal Register / Vol. 66, No. 237 / Monday, December 10,
   2001 / Notices NOAA proposes to use several V. Eligible Coral Reef
   Conservation The total annual Program funding existing grant programs
   and Activities amount, suggested ranges for funding mechanisms to
   implement the Program. As described in section 6403(g) of the requests,
   and specific funding categories Each fiscal year the Program will Act,
   projects considered for funding under which an applicant may choose
   publish a Federal Register notice to under this Program must be
   consistent to be considered will be published in describe the
   availability of funds and with the National Coral Reef Action the
   Program's annual Federal Register solicit project proposals. These
   annual Strategy, scheduled to be published solicitation. solicitations,
   beginning in FY 2002, will concurrently in the Federal Register Program
   funding awarded during any provide greater detail on the year's with
   the FY 2002 solicitation for given fiscal year will be distributed, per
   program priorities, application process, proposals, in the first
   quarter calendar section 6403(d) of the Act, in the and proposal
   evaluation criteria. This year 2002. In addition, per the same
   following manner: document is not a solicitation for project (1) No
   less than 40 percent of funds section, the Administrator may not
   proposals. available shall be awarded for coral reef approve a project
   proposal unless it will conservation projects in the Pacific II.
   Electronic Access enhance the conservation of coral reefs Ocean within
   the maritime areas and by addressing at least one of the The Coral Reef
   Conservation Act of zones subject to the jurisdiction or following:
   2000 can be found on the Internet at: control of the United States; (1)
   Implementing coral conservation http://thomas.loc.gov/ (Select Bill
   Text, (2) No less than 40 percent of funds programs which promote
   sustainable available shall be awarded for coral reef then select 106th
   Congress, search on development and ensure effective, long-
   conservation projects in the Atlantic Bill Number HR 1653, select H.R.
   term conservation of coral reefs; Ocean, Gulf of Mexico and the
   1653.EH). Information on the U.S. Coral (2) Addressing the conflicts
   arising Caribbean Sea within the maritime areas Reef Task Force,
   established June 11, from the use of environments near coral and zones
   subject to the jurisdiction or 1998 under Executive Order 13089, can
   reefs or from the use of corals, species control of the United States;
   and be found at: http://coralreef.gov. associated with coral reefs, and
   coral (3) Remaining funds shall be awarded III. Coral Reef Conservation
   Program products; for projects that address emerging (3) Enhancing
   compliance with laws priorities or threats, including The objective of
   the Program is to that prohibit or regulate the taking of international
   priorities or threats, provide financial assistance for coral coral
   products or species associated identified by the Administrator. When
   reef conservation projects consistent with coral reefs or regulate the
   use and identifying emerging threats or with the Act and National Coral
   Reef management of coral reef ecosystems; priorities, the Administrator
   may Action Strategy currently under (4) Developing sound scientific
   consult with the Coral Reef Task Force. development. NOAA's role in
   information on the condition of coral administering the Program is to
   reef ecosystems or the threats to such VII. Funding Categories and
   strengthen and support the development ecosystems, including factors
   that cause Mechanisms and implementation of sound coral reef coral
   disease; In order to ensure adequate funding conservation projects, as
   well as ensure (5) Promoting and assisting to for each of the purposes
   envisioned that the most beneficial projects are implement cooperative
   coral reef under the Act and provide for a recommended for funding.
   conservation projects that involve balanced overall Program, existing
   NOAA programs will be used to award IV. Applicant Eligibility
   Requirements affected local communities, non- governmental
   organizations, or others in funds in the five funding categories As per
   section 6403(c) of the Act, the private sector; described below. Each
   of the five eligible applicants include: any natural (6) Increasing
   public knowledge and categories references the general activity r
   esource management authority of a awareness of coral reef ecosystems
   and and applicant eligibility requirements state or other government
   authority with issues regarding their long term associated with
   proposals submitted jurisdiction over coral reefs or whose
   conservation; therein. Specific activity and applicant activities
   directly or indirectly affect (7) Mapping the location and eligibility
   information and proposal coral reefs or coral reef ecosystems, or
   distribution of coral reefs; evaluation criteria for each category,
   educational or non-governmental (8) Developing and implementing
   consistent with Guideline sections IV. institutions with demonstrated
   expertise techniques to monitor and assess the Applicant Eligibility
   Requirements, VI. in the conservation of coral reefs. Each status and
   condition of coral reefs; Funding and Funding Distribution, VIII.
   subcategory of funding under this (9) Developing and implementing
   Matching Funds, IX. Application Program, as described in section VII of
   cost-effective methods to restore Process, and X. Project Review, will
   be this document, encompasses a specific degraded coral reef
   ecosystems; or published in each year's solicitation for subgroup of
   eligible applicants, per this (10) Promoting ecologically sound
   proposals. section. navigation and anchorages near coral (1) U.S. state
   and territorial reefs. government coral reef conservation As a matter
   of policy, funding Federal activities, as described in section V(1-
   agency activities under this Program VI. Program Funding and
   Distribution 10) of the Guidelines (section 6403(g) of will be a low
   priority unless such Section 6408(c) of the Act authorizes the Act) for
   the purposes of activities are an essential part of a up to $8,000,000
   for use by the comprehensively managing coral reef cooperative project
   with other eligible Secretary for each of FY 2001 through ecosystems
   and associated fisheries governmental or non-governmental FY 2004 for
   the Coral Reef Conservation within their jurisdictions. Eligibility to
   entities. Program. The number of individual receive an award is limited
   to one NOAA agencies are not eligible for awards to be made each year
   will agency in each state or territory with funding under this Program,
   as funding depend on the total amount of funds jurisdiction over coral
   reefs, as for such activities is provided for under appropriated for
   coral reef activities designated by the respective governors. section
   6406 of the Act (National within NOAA and the portion of those These
   proposals will be reviewed and Program). funds that are allocated to
   this Program. awarded by the National Ocean Service VerDate 112000
   16:13 Dec 07, 2001 Jkt 197001 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 4703 Sfmt 4703
   E:\FR\FM\10DEN1.SGM pfrm01 PsN: 10DEN1 Federal Register / Vol. 66, No.
   237 / Monday, December 10, 2001 / Notices 63677 (NOS) Office of Ocean
   and Coastal implementing cooperative coral reef determines that the
   project meets the Resource Management (OCRM) per conservation
   activities as described in following two requirements: guidelines
   published June 28, 2001 in section V(1-10) of the Guidelines (1) No
   reasonable means are available the Federal Register (66 FR 34425), and
   (section 6403(g) of the Act). Eligible through which an applicant can
   meet pursuant to Section 310 of the Coastal applicants include all
   international the matching requirement, and Zone Management Act, under
   title, governmental and non-governmental (2) The probable benefit of
   such Coastal Zone Management entities, including those in the Freely
   project outweighs the public interest in Administration Awards, CFDA
   11.419. Associated States of the Pacific. These such matching
   requirement. (2) U.S. state and territorial proposals will be reviewed
   and awarded Applicants must specify in their government coral reef
   ecosystem by the NOS International Programs proposal the source and
   amount of the monitoring and/or assessment activities, Office or the
   NMFS Office of Habitat proposed match and may be asked to as described
   in section V(8) of the Conservation, as appropriate, under provide
   letters of commitment to Guidelines (section 6403(g)(8) of the title,
   Habitat Conservation, CFDA confirm stated contributions. In the case
   Act). Such activities include the 11.463. of a waiver request, the
   applicant must collection, analysis, and reporting of The annual
   solicitation will establish provide a detailed justification long-term
   coral reef monitoring data the range of funds available and specific
   explaining the need for the waiver, as pursuant to scientifically valid
   evaluation criteria for each of these five described in section IX(6)
   of these methodologies and protocols. Eligible categories. NOAA may add
   additional Guidelines. applicants are limited to one natural funding
   categories in the annual Notwithstanding any other provision resource
   management authority in each solicitation based on available funding
   herein, and in accordance with 48 U.S. state or territory with
   jurisdiction and/or coral reef conservation priorities U.S.C. 1469a(d),
   this Program shall over coral reefs, as designated by the under the
   Strategy. Applicants will be waive any requirement for local respective
   governors. Cooperative required to specify in their application
   matching funds for any project under agreements between these agencies
   and the category(s) under which they are $200,000 (including in kind
   the NOS National Centers for Coastal applying for funding. Selected
   contributions) to the governments of and Ocean Science (NCCOS) will be
   applications may be funded and awards Insular Areas, defined as the
   developed without competition under administered by NOAA, through
   either jurisdictions of the U.S. Virgin Islands, title, Financial
   Assistance for National NMFS or NOS. Generally, one award Guam,
   American Samoa, and the Centers of Coastal Ocean Science, CFDA
   Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana 11.426. will be made for each
   proposal accepted Islands. (3) U.S. state, territorial, or other for
   funding. governmental and non-governmental NOAA will determine the most
   IX. Application Process entities, not eligible under other appropriate
   funding mechanisms (grant, NOAA will publish in the Federal categories,
   for the purpose of cooperative agreement, or interagency Register one
   annual notification implementing cooperative coral reef agreement) for
   selected individual soliciting project proposals, pursuant to
   conservation, protection, restoration, projects, in consultation with
   the these Guidelines. Applications research, or education projects, as
   applicant, based on the degree of direct submitted in response to
   solicitation described in section V(1-10) of the NOAA involvement with
   the project notices will be screened for eligibility Guidelines
   (section 6403(g) of the Act). beyond the provision of financial and
   conformance with the Program These proposals will be reviewed and
   assistance. Guidelines. awarded by the National Marine Proposals from
   non-Federal To submit a proposal, a complete Fisheries Service (NMFS)
   Office of applicants that are selected for funding NOAA standard grants
   application Habitat Conservation under title, Habitat will be funded
   either through a project package must be filed in accordance
   Conservation, CFDA 11.463. grant or cooperative agreement. Selected
   with the guidelines in this document (4) Projects to develop, improve,
   or Federal proposals will be funded and instructions in the Department
   of amend Fishery Management Plans to through interagency agreements;
   Commerce Pre-Award Notification conserve, protect and restore coral
   reef however, under the Program, such Requirements for Grants and
   habitats and associated fishery agreements must include a local sponsor
   Cooperative Agreements contained the populations within the U.S.
   Exclusive of the coral reef conservation project. Federal Register
   notice of October 1, Economic Zone; with the overall goal of VIII.
   Matching Funds 2001 (66 FR 49917). improving the management of coral A
   more detailed description of reefs and associated organisms through As
   per section 6403(b)(1) of the Act, specific application requirements
   will the avoidance of fishing impacts, Federal funds for any coral
   conservation be published in the annual solicitation; ecosystem
   management or similar project funded under this Program may however,
   pursuant to section 6403(e)of approaches and practices; as described
   not exceed 50 percent of the total costs the Act and NOAA, each
   application in section V(3) of the Guidelines of such project. The
   match may must include the following elements: (section 6403(g)(3) of
   the Act). Eligible comprise a variety of public and private (1) A cover
   sheet with the name of the applicants include Regional Fishery sources
   and can include in-kind individual or entity responsible for Management
   Councils with jurisdiction contributions and other non-cash conducting
   the project; over coral reefs, as established under the support. NOAA
   strongly encourages (2) A description of the qualifications
   Magnuson-Stevens Fishery applicants to leverage as much of the
   individual(s) who will conduct Conservation and Management Act (16
   investment as possible. Federal funds the project; USC 1801 et seq.).
   These proposals will may not be considered as matching (3) A succinct
   statement of the be reviewed and awarded by the NMFS funds. purposes of
   the project, including the Office of Habitat Conservation under For
   applicants who cannot meet the specific geographic location where the
   title, Habitat Conservation, CFDA match requirement, as per section
   project will be carried out; 11.463. 6403(b)(2) of the Act, the
   Secretary may (4) An estimate of the funds and time (5) International
   coral reef waive all or part of the matching required to complete the
   project conservation projects for the purpose of requirement if the
   Administrator including: a detailed breakdown by VerDate 112000 16:13
   Dec 07, 2001 Jkt 197001 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 4703 Sfmt 4703
   E:\FR\FM\10DEN1.SGM pfrm01 PsN: 10DEN1 63678 Federal Register / Vol.
   66, No. 237 / Monday, December 10, 2001 / Notices category of cost
   estimates as they relate each Federal agency, state government, review
   and reviewers will not provide a to specific aspects of the project,
   with or other government jurisdiction, consensus opinion. The
   identities of the appropriate justification for both the including the
   relevant regional Fishery peer reviewers will be kept anonymous Federal
   and non-Federal shares; Management Councils established under to the
   degree permitted by law. Specific (5) Evidence of support for the
   project the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery evaluation criteria for projects
   by appropriate representatives of states Conservation and Management
   Act (16 submitted under each funding category or other government
   jurisdictions in U.S.C. 1801 et seq.), or any National will be
   published in each annual which the project will be conducted, Marine
   Sanctuary, with jurisdiction or Federal Register solicitation.
   including obtaining or proceeding to management authority over coral
   reef (3) Each NOAA Program Office will obtain all applicable State
   and/or ecosystems in the area where the project subsequently implement
   an internal Federal permits, consultations, and is to be conducted.
   Pursuant to this review process to rank each proposal consistencies.
   U.S. state or territorial requirement of the Act, NOAA will that is
   appropriate for funding under applicants must also provide evidence
   apply the following standard in their program based upon consideration
   of coordination with all relevant state or requesting comments: of:
   comments and recommendations territorial agencies, including a list of
   (A) Proposals for projects in state or from the reviews under
   paragraphs (1) agencies consulted in developing the territorial waters,
   including Federal and (2), and their evaluation of each proposal;
   marine protected areas in such waters proposal consistent with the five
   (6) Information regarding the amount (e.g. National Marine
   Sanctuaries), will following criteria: of matching funding available to
   the be submitted to that state or territorial (A) Direct Benefit to
   Coral Reef applicant. In the case of a waiver government's designated
   U.S. Coral Reef Resources and Ecosystems. NOAA will request, the
   applicant must provide a Task Force point of contact for evaluate
   proposals based on the detailed justification explaining the comment;
   potential of the project to meet goals need for the waiver including
   attempts (B) Proposals for projects in Federal and objectives stated in
   section 6403(g) to obtain sources of matching funds, waters will be
   submitted to the relevant of the Act. how the benefit of the project
   outweighs Fishery Management Council for (B) Technical Merit and
   Adequacy of the public interest in providing match, comment;
   Implementation Plan. Proposals will be and any other extenuating (C)
   Proposals for projects which evaluated on the technical feasibility of
   circumstances preventing the require Federal permits will be the
   project and the qualifications of availability of match; submitted to
   the Federal agency which project leaders and/or partners based on (7) A
   description of how the project issued the permit for comment;
   demonstrated abilities to: meets one or more the goals and (D)
   Proposals for projects in Federal (i) Deliver the conservation
   objective objectives stated in section V of the marine protected areas
   managed by stated in the proposal; Guidelines (section 6403(g) of the
   Act); Federal agencies (e.g. National Wildlife (ii) Provide educational
   benefits, and Refuges, National Parks, National where appropriate; (8)
   Any other information the Marine Sanctuaries, etc.) will be (iii)
   Incorporate assessment of project Administrator considers to be
   necessary submitted to the respective Federal success in terms of
   meeting the for evaluating the eligibility of the management authority
   for comment; proposed objectives; project for funding under this title.
   and (iv) Demonstrate that the conservation In order to streamline the
   application (E) NOAA will seek comments from activity will be
   sustainable and long- and award process, and to allow NOAA other
   government entities, authorities, lasting; to fully evaluate all coral
   reef and/or jurisdictions, including (v) Provide assurance that
   conservation applications in the context international entities for
   projects implementation of the project will meet of the overall
   Program, applicants must proposed outside of U.S. waters, as all state
   environmental laws and Federal indicate under which category(s) (as
   necessary based on the nature and scope consistency requirements by
   obtaining described in section VII of these of the proposed project. or
   proceeding to obtain applicable Guidelines) they are seeking funds, and
   Specifically, agencies will be permits and consultations; and are
   encouraged to submit only one requested to comment on: the extent to
   (C) Past Performance. Proposals will comprehensive application per
   which the project is consistent with be evaluated on the previous
   solicitation. The Program will give locally established coral reef
   accomplishments of the applicants in preference to projects where
   requested conservation priorities and projects; achieving coral reef
   conservation funding will be used to complete whether the project has
   been objectives similar to those outlined in proposed coral reef
   conservation coordinated with existing or planned section V. Eligible
   Coral Reef activities within a period of 12 months projects;
   suggestions for improving Conservation Activities of these from the
   time the awards are project coordination and/or technical Guidelines.
   Applicants submitting their distributed. approach; and appropriate
   staff points first coral reef conservation project of contact. Each
   entity will be provided should document past experience in X. Project
   Review 21 days to review and comment on related activities; As per
   section 6203(f) of the Act, subject proposals. Comments submitted (D)
   Consistency with the National NOAA will review eligible coral reef will
   be part of the public record. Coral Reef Action Strategy and the
   conservation proposals using an (2) Each NOAA program office will
   National Action Plan to Conserve Coral external governmental review and
   provide for a merit-based peer review Reefs. Proposals will be
   evaluated on merit-based peer review. After such and standardized
   documentation of that how well they meet the respective reviews, NOAA
   will implement an review for proposals considered programmatic goals
   and objectives (e.g. internal ranking and selection process.
   appropriate for funding under their goals and objectives for
   restoration) The overall project review and selection respective
   category(s). Each proposal outlined in the National Coral Reef process
   will include the following five will be reviewed by a minimum of three
   Action Strategy, currently under steps: individuals with knowledge of
   the development pursuant to Section 6402 (1) NOAA will request and
   consider subject of the proposal. Each reviewer of the Act, and the
   National Action Plan written comments on the proposal from will submit
   a separate and individual to Conserve Coral Reefs (U.S. Coral Reef
   VerDate 112000 16:13 Dec 07, 2001 Jkt 197001 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt
   4703 Sfmt 4703 E:\FR\FM\10DEN1.SGM pfrm01 PsN: 10DEN1 Federal Register
   / Vol. 66, No. 237 / Monday, December 10, 2001 / Notices 63679 Task
   Force, 2000, http://coralreef.gov). for marine protected areas and
   marine responsibilities, and funding, entered Applicants are strongly
   encouraged to resources consistent with the National into between NOAA
   and another review both documents and identify in Marine Sanctuaries
   Act (16 U.S.C. 1431 Federal agency where NOAA is funding their
   application the specific et seq.) and the Magnuson-Stevens the other
   Federal agency, pursuant to conservation objectives that their project
   Fishery Conservation and Management the Act. proposal will address; and
   Act (16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.); law (10) Secretary means the Secretary of
   (E) Cost-effectiveness and Budget enforcement; conflict resolution
   Commerce. Justification. Proposals will be initiatives; community
   outreach and (11) State means any State of the evaluated on their
   ability to demonstrate education; and that promote safe and United
   States that contains a coral reef that significant benefit will be
   generated ecologically sound navigation. ecosystem within its seaward
   for the most reasonable cost. Projects (3) Cooperative Agreement means
   a boundaries, American Samoa, Guam, will also be reviewed in terms of
   their legal instrument reflecting a the Northern Mariana Islands,
   Puerto need for funding and the ability of relationship between the
   Department of Rico, and the Virgin Islands, and any NOAA funds to act
   as a catalyst to Commerce (DoC) and a recipient other territory or
   possession of the implement projects and precipitate whenever: (1) the
   principal purpose of United States, or separate sovereign in
   partnerships and other sources of the relationship is to transfer
   money, free association with the United States, funding to achieve
   conservation property, services or anything of value that contains a
   coral reef ecosystem objectives. Preference will be given to to
   accomplish a public purpose of within its seaward boundaries. projects
   that will be completed within a support or stimulation authorized by
   Classification: This is a new Program period of 12 months from the time
   the Federal statute, and (2) substantial and will be added to the
   Catalog of awards are distributed; involvement (e.g. collaboration,
   Federal Domestic Assistance under the (4) A NOAA review panel made up
   of participation, or intervention by DoC in Coastal Zone Management Act
   (11.419), representatives from each NOAA the management of the project)
   is Financial Assistance for National program office will review the
   project anticipated between DoC and the Centers for Coastal Ocean
   Science rankings from each program office and recipient during
   performance of the (11.426), and Habitat Conservation make
   consensus-based, final project contemplated activity. (11.463). The
   Program uses only the selections and funding (4) Coral means species of
   the phylum existing NOAA Federal assistance recommendations to be
   presented to the Cnidaria, including-- application package requirements
   per 15 NOAA Administrator, or his designee, (A) all species of the
   orders CFR parts 14 and 24. for final approval. The review panel and
   Antipatharia (black corals), Scleractinia The program will determine
   NEPA Administrator, or designee, will ensure (stony corals), Gorgonacea
   (horny compliance on a project by project basis. that the Act
   requirements for geographic corals), Stolonifera (organpipe corals This
   action has been determined to be funding distribution and consistency
   and others), Alcyanacea (soft corals), not significant for purposes of
   Executive with the overall Program goals outlined and Coenothecalia
   (blue coral), of the Order 12866. in the Strategy have been met. NOAA
   class Anthozoa; and The use of the standard grants reserves the right
   to consult with (B) all species of the order application package
   referred to in this applicants, prior to making an award, to
   Hydrocorallina (fire corals and notice involves collection-of-
   determine the exact amount of funds to hydrocorals) of the class
   Hydrozoa. information requirements subject to the be awarded, as well
   as the most (5) Coral Reef means any reefs or Paperwork Reduction Act.
   The use of appropriate funding category and shoals composed primarily
   of corals. Standard Forms 424, 424A, 424B, and mechanism under which to
   consider the (6) Coral Reef Ecosystem means coral SFLLL have been
   approved by OMB project for funding; and and other species of reef
   organisms under the respective control numbers (5) NOAA will provide
   written (including reef plants) associated with 03480043, 03480044,
   03480040, and notification of a proposal's approval or coral reefs, and
   the non-living 03480046. disapproval to each applicant within 6
   environmental factors that directly The proposed guidelines also
   contain months of submitting a coral reef affect coral reefs, that
   together function new collection-of- information conservation proposal.
   Similarly, NOAA as an ecological unit in nature. requirements subject
   to review and will also provide written notification of (7) Coral
   Products means any living or approval by the Office of Management a
   project's approval to each State or dead specimens, parts, or
   derivatives, or and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork other government
   jurisdiction that any product containing specimens, Reduction Act.
   These requirements will provided comments and/or reviews. parts, or
   derivatives, of any species be submitted to OMB for approval. referred
   to in paragraph (3). Public reporting burden for these Definitions (8)
   Grant means a legal instrument collections of information is estimated
   In this Program: reflecting a relationship between DoC to average one
   hour per request for a (1) Administrator means the and a recipient
   whenever: (1) the matching funds waiver (section IX(6) of Administrator
   of the National Oceanic principal purpose of the relationship is these
   Guidelines) and one hour per and Atmospheric Administration. to
   transfer money, property, services, or comment on proposals (section
   X(1) of (2) Conservation means the use of anything of value in order to
   accomplish these Guidelines), including the time for methods and
   procedures necessary to a public purpose of support or reviewing
   instructions, searching preserve or sustain corals and associated
   stimulation authorized by Federal existing data sources, gathering and
   species as diverse, viable, and self- statute, and (2) no substantial
   maintaining the data needed, and perpetuating coral reef ecosystems,
   involvement is anticipated between DoC completing and reviewing the
   collection including all activities associated with and the recipient
   during the of information. resource management, such as performance of
   the contemplated Public comment is sought regarding: assessment,
   conservation, protection, activity. whether this proposed collection of
   restoration, sustainable use, and (9) Interagency Agreement, for the
   information is necessary for the proper management of habitat; mapping;
   purposes of these Guidelines, means a performance of the functions of
   the habitat monitoring; assistance in the written document containing
   specific agency, including whether the development of management
   strategies provisions of governing authorities, information shall have
   practical utility; VerDate 112000 16:13 Dec 07, 2001 Jkt 197001 PO
   00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 4703 Sfmt 4703 E:\FR\FM\10DEN1.SGM pfrm01 PsN:
   10DEN1 63680 Federal Register / Vol. 66, No. 237 / Monday, December 10,
   2001 / Notices the accuracy of the burden estimate; Mammal Conservation
   Division, Office Comments and Responses ways to enhance the quality,
   utility, and of Protected Resources, NMFS, 1315 On September 12, 2001
   (66 FR 47453), clarity of the information to be East-West Highway,
   Silver Spring, MD NMFS published a notice of receipt and collected; and
   ways to minimize the 209103225. a 30day public comment period was
   burden of the collection of information, FOR FURTHER INFORMATION
   CONTACT: provided on the application and including through the use of
   automated Simona P. Roberts, (301) 7132322, ext. proposed
   authorization. Comments were collection techniques or other forms of
   106 or Christina Fahy, (562) 9804023. received from the Santa Barbara
   County information technology. Send comments Energy Division, the
   California Coastal on these or any other aspects of the SUPPLEMENTARY
   INFORMATION: Commission, the City of Carpinteria, collection of
   information to NOAA Background and a private citizen. Office of
   Response and Restoration at the ADDRESSES above, and to OMB at the
   Sections 101 (a)(5)(A) and (D) of the Cumulative Impact Concerns Office
   of Information and Regulatory MMPA (16 U.S.C. 1361 et seq.) direct
   Comment 1: The California Coastal Affairs, Office of Management and the
   Secretary of Commerce to allow, Commission recommended that the Budget,
   Washington, DC 20503 upon request, the incidental, but not
   authorization address the potential for (Attention: NOAA Desk Officer).
   intentional taking of small numbers of cumulative impacts from chronic
   Notwithstanding any other provision marine mammals by U.S. citizens who
   disturbances to the Pacific harbor seal of law, no person is required
   to respond engage in a specified activity (other than rookery located
   near the gas pipeline to, nor shall any person be subject to a
   commercial fishing) within a specified and the possibility that
   additional penalty for failure to comply with, a geographical region if
   certain findings disturbances such as the proposed collection of
   information subject to the are made and either regulations are activity
   could cause the seal rookery to Paperwork Reduction Act, unless that
   issued or, if the taking is limited to permanently abandon this
   location. collection displays a currently valid harassment, notice of a
   proposed Response: Based on previous OMB control number. authorization
   is provided to the public for review. observations conducted in the
   vicinity Dated: November 30, 2001. of the gas pipeline and pier, as
   well as Authorization may be granted if Scott Gudes, daily observations
   made by the NMFS finds, based on the best available Acting Under
   Secretary for Oceans and Carpinteria Seal Watch, there is no scientific
   evidence, that the taking will Atmosphere/Administrator and Deputy
   evidence that chronic disturbances, Under Secretary have a negligible
   impact on the marine such as people walking along the beach, mammal
   species or stock(s). Negligible [FR Doc. 0130383 Filed 12701; 8:45 am]
   are negatively impacting the Pacific impact is defined in regulation
   (50 CFR BILLING CODE 3510JES harbor seals hauling out on the beach
   216.103) as ``an impact resulting from over the long-term (Seagars,
   1986; the specified activity that cannot be Howorth,1995). From
   information DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE reasonably expected to, and is not
   provided by Howorth (1995), the most reasonably likely to, adversely
   affect the negative disturbance to date, resulting National Oceanic and
   Atmospheric species or stock through effects on in haul-out
   abandonment, has been not Administration annual rates of recruitment or
   survival''. from direct disturbance by humans but [I.D. 112101B]
   Summary of Request rather from disturbance and pup injury and predation
   by a coyote. Based on Small Takes of Marine Mammals On June 17, 2001,
   NMFS received an these previous documented Incidental to Specified
   Activities; application from Venoco, Inc., the observations at
   Carpinteria and nearby Repairs at the Carpinteria Oil and Gas owner and
   operator of the Carpinteria haul-out sites, there is very low
   Processing Facility, Carpinteria, CA Oil and Gas Processing Facility in
   probability that the harbor seals will Carpinteria, CA, requesting an
   IHA for completely abandon the Carpinteria AGENCY: National Marine
   Fisheries the take of small numbers of Pacific haul-out site as a
   result of Venoco's Service (NMFS), National Oceanic and harbor seals
   incidental to repair of gas repair activities. While there is evidence
   Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), pipeline supports and pier pilings
   at from other haul-out sites in San Commerce. Casitas Pier. Francisco
   Bay that seals will abandon ACTION: Notice of issuance of an On October
   24, 2001, Venoco notified haul-out sites during chronic daytime
   incidental harassment authorization. NMFS that the project had been
   disturbance, the San Francisco Bay seals modified such that only
   repairs to the did not completely abandon the site and SUMMARY: In
   accordance with provisions gas pipeline supports and not the pier
   continued to use the site during of the Marine Mammal Protection Act
   were to be made. In addition, Venoco nighttime hours when there was no
   (MMPA) as amended, notification is revised its original Project
   Execution disturbance (Paulbitsky, 1975; hereby given that an
   Incidental Plan and Wildlife Protection Plan to Risebrough et al.,
   1980). Harassment Authorization (IHA) to take better address the issue
   of acoustic Biologically, the primary concerns of small numbers of
   Pacific harbor seals harassment. A detailed description of harbor seal
   haul-out site abandonment (Phoca vitulina richardsi) by harassment the
   work proposed for 2001 is contained are physiological stress resulting
   from incidental to repairs at the Carpinteria in the revised Project
   Execution Plan, the inability to find alternate haul-out Oil and Gas
   Processing Facility in which are available upon request (see sites and
   the inability to find alternate Carpinteria, CA., has been issued to
   ADDRESSES). haul-out sites for pupping and molting. Venoco, Inc. Venoco
   plans to complete all repair In the Carpinteria case, there are two
   DATES: Effective from November 28, activities in a three-week period.
   alternate haul-out sites in the vicinity; 2001, until November 28,
   2002. However, to account for potential offshore rocks west of the
   beach and off ADDRESSES: The application, Wildlife weather and
   logistical delays and Carpinteria Beach State Park. Harbor Protection
   Plans, Project Execution reduce further paperwork, the IHA will seals
   have been observed hauling out in Plans, and IHA are available by
   writing be issued for a full 1year period these locations after having
   been to Donna Wieting, Chief, Marine (November 2001November 2002).
   disturbed on the beach (Sadler, 1976; VerDate 112000 16:13 Dec 07, 2001
   Jkt 197001 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 4703 Sfmt 4703 E:\FR\FM\10DEN1.SGM
   pfrm01 PsN: 10DEN1
