http://earthobservatory.nasa.gov/Newsroom/MediaResources/AMS/

          NASA's Earth Observatory
   Earth Observatory Navigation Bar
                             News

     Nasa News Stories Archive

     January 14-17, 2002

   American Meteorological Society (AMS) Annual Meeting Coverage

   The following press releases describe research that was presented by
   Earth Science scientists from NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center,
   Greenbelt, Md., at the 82nd American Meteorological Society Annual
   Meeting held at the Orange County Convention Center in Orlando,
   Florida, January 13-17. A press kit describing sessions that occured at
   the AMS conference is also available.

   SeaWinds Casts a Closer Eye on Tropical Cyclones
   In a new NASA-funded study, researchers have dramatically improved the
   warning time for tropical cyclone development in the Atlantic and
   Eastern Pacific hurricane basins using satellite data to access a
   combination of the spin of the atmosphere and wind speed data. With
   this new method, potential tropical cyclones can be detected more than
   40 hours earlier than with traditional methods, giving more time for
   warnings and preparation. Full Story   A thumbnail of a chart detection
   time of tropical storms in the eastern Pacific. SeaWinds Spots
   Gabrielle Early
   New Method Greatly Improves U.S. Seasonal Forecasts
   A new technique could raise the bar for predicting seasonal
   precipitation by 10 to 20 percent for all seasons in the United States,
   a NASA-funded study finds. Full Story   A thumbnail of a map showing
   the world. Ocean Basins That Affect U.S. Climate
   Climate Change May Bring More Winter Floods, and a Drier Growing Season
   in California
   A new study finds that climate warming over the next century will bring
   potential flooding in winter, as a result of increased streamflow
   throughout California. The study also finds less water would be
   available during the summer months. Full Story   A thumbnail of a map
   showing California Watersheds. Caption explains further. Charting
   Increased Flow in Six California River Basins
   Study Links El Niño To Deadly South American Disease
   In a groundbreaking collaborative study, NASA climatologists and U.S.
   military health specialists may have discovered a way to predict
   outbreaks of a deadly South American disease by observing sea surface
   temperature. Full Story   A thumbnail of an image showing a lesion on
   the cheek of a child. Caption explains further. Lesions Created by
   Bartonellosis

   Back to: News


     Subscribe to the Earth Observatory
     About the Earth Observatory
     Please send comments or questions to: eobweb@eob.gsfc.nasa.gov
     Responsible NASA official: Yoram Kaufman
