http://newyork.fbi.gov/contact/fo/nyfo/foipa.htm

             Line Freedom of Information and Privacy Act Scales

                                    Line

   FREEDOM OF INFORMATION AND PRIVACY ACT REQUEST

       Requests for information pursuant to the Freedom of Information (FOIA)
       and Privacy Act (PA) should be directed to FBI Headquarters in
       Washington, D.C. or to any FBI field office which could maintain the
       records you seek. A complete listing of FBI Field Offices and their
       addresses may be found on the FBI Home Page. The envelope containing
       your request should be addressed to the FOI/PA Section at FBIHQ or, in
       the case of requests to the field offices, contain the notation Freedom
       of Information Request on the front of the envelope. You may also
       submit your request in person at FBIHQ or the FBI field office Monday
       through Friday during normal business hours.
       Information About Yourself

       If you are requesting information about yourself, you must provide, at
       a minimum, your full name, date and place of birth. You may also want
       to provide aliases, nicknames, prior addresses, employments or any
       other information you believe would assist in conducting an accurate
       search of our records. If you have an FBI file number, you should
       provide that as well. To ensure that documents are released only to
       persons with a right of access to the information, your signature
       should be notarized or, in lieu of a notarized signature, you may
       submit a declaration pursuant to Title 28, U.S. Code , Section 1746. If
       you are making a request through your attorney or another person, they
       should submit your signed, notarized authorization for the FBI to
       forward any responsive information to them.
       Information About Another Individual

       Request for information regarding someone other than yourself must be
       accompanied by proof of death, e.g. a copy of a death certificate or a
       newspaper obituary, or a privacy waiver signed by the individual who is
       the subject of your request. The Privacy Waiver should be signed in the
       presence of a notary. You should provide as much information as
       possible about the individual who is the subject of your request,
       including their full name, aliases, nicknames, date and place of birth,
       addresses employment or other information you believe may be helpful in
       conducting an accurate search.
       Pre-processed List

       The FBI maintains a reading room at FBIHQ which is open to the public.
       The reading room contains copies of previously processed files
       regarding certain individuals or topics that have been the subject of
       widespread interest. To review files in the Reading Room at FBIHQ you
       must make an appointment at least 48 hours in advance by calling (202)
       324-3789. The field office will not handle a request for information on
       the pre-processed list. A copy of the Pre-processed List will be added
       to the FBIHQ home page in the near future.
       Handling Your Request

       The FBI handles requests based on the approximate order of receipt,
       consistent with sound administrative practices, absent a documented
       "exceptional need or urgency." The FBIHQ and the New York Office of the
       FBI receive a large volume of requests. Despite the FBI's best efforts,
       as a result of the volume of requests, if we find records responsive to
       your request, you can anticipate lengthy processing delays.

       Link to New York Home page     New York Field Office Home Page
       Link to Field Office Home page Field Office Home Pages
    Updated March 3, 1997
