http://www.nssg.gov/PhaseIIIFR.pdf

   Road Map for National Security: Imperative for Change The Phase III
   Report of the U.S. Commission on National Security/21st Century The
   United States Commission on National Security/21st Century February 15,
   2001 U.S. Commission on National Security/21st Century1 Gary Hart
   Warren B. Rudman Co-Chair Co-Chair Anne Armstrong Norman R. Augustine
   Commissioner Commissioner John Dancy John R. Galvin Commissioner
   Commissioner Leslie H. Gelb Newt Gingrich Commissioner Commissioner Lee
   H. Hamilton Lionel H. Olmer Commissioner Commissioner Donald B. Rice
   James Schlesinger Commissioner Commissioner Harry D. Train Andrew Young
   Commissioner Commissioner 1 Disclaimer: This Commission has striven
   successfully to achieve consensus on all major issues, and each
   Commissioner stands by all the major recommendations made in this
   report. However, as is to be expected when discussing complex issues,
   not every Commissioner agrees completely with every statement in the
   text that follows. ii Contents Foreword, Gary Hart and Warren B.
   Rudman.............................................................iv
   Preface, Charles G.
   Boyd...................................................................
   ....................v EXECUTIVE
   SUMMARY................................................................
   .......................viii Introduction: Imperative for
   Change.................................................................
   .....2 I. Securing the National Homeland
   ......................................................................1
   0 A. The Strategic
   Framework..............................................................
   ..........11 B. Organizational
   Realignment............................................................
   ........14 C. Executive-Legislative
   Cooperation............................................................
   26 II. Recapitalizing America's Strengths in Science and
   Education.................................30 A. Investing in
   Innovation.............................................................
   .............31 B. Education as a National Security Imperative
   ................................................38 III. Institutional
   Redesign...............................................
   .....................................47 A. Strategic Planning and
   Budgeting..............................................................
   48 B. The National Security
   Council................................................................
   ..49 C. Department of
   State..................................................................
   ............52 D. Department of
   Defense................................................................
   ..........63 E. Space
   Policy.................................................................
   .....................78 F. The Intelligence
   Community..............................................................
   ......81 . IV. The Human Requirements for National
   Security................................................86 = A. A
   National Campaign for Service to the
   Nation..............................................88 B. The
   Presidential Appointments
   Process......................................................89 C. The
   Foreign
   Service................................................................
   ..............94 D. The Civil
   Service................................................................
   .................96 E. Military
   Personnel..............................................................
   .................102 V. The Role of
   Congress...............................................................
   ...................110 A Final
   Word...................................................................
   .............................116
   Index..................................................................
   ........................................118 Appendix 1: The
   Recommendations........................................................
   ...............124 Appendix 2: The USCNS/21
   Charter................................................................
   ......130 Appendix 3: Commissioner Biographies and Staff
   Listing.............................................135 iii Foreword
   merican power and influence have been decisive factors for democracy
   and security Athroughout the last half-century. However, after more
   than two years of serious effort, this Commission has concluded that
   without significant reforms, American power and influence cannot be
   sustained. To be of long-term benefit to us and to others, that power
   and influence must be disciplined by strategy, defined as the
   systematic determination of the proper relationship of ends to means in
   support of American principles, interests, and national purpose. This
   Commission was established to redefine national security in this age
   and to do so in a more comprehensive fashion than any other similar
   effort since 1947. We have carried out our duties in an independent and
   totally bipartisan spirit. This report is a blueprint for reorganizing
   the U.S. national security structure in order to focus that structure's
   attention on the most important new and serious problems before the
   nation, and to produce organizational competence capable of addressing
   those problems creatively. The key to our vision is the need for a
   culture of coordinated strategic planning to permeate all U.S. national
   security institutions. Our challenges are no longer defined for us by a
   single prominent threat. Without creative strategic planning in this
   new environment, we will default in time of crisis to a reactive
   posture. Such a posture is inadequate to the challenges and
   opportunities before us. We have concluded that, despite the end of the
   Cold War threat, America faces distinctly new dangers, particularly to
   the homeland and to our scientific and educational base. These dangers
   must be addressed forthwith. We call upon the new President, the new
   administration, the new Congress, and the country at large to consider
   and debate our recommendations in the pragmatic spirit that has
   characterized America and its people in each new age. Gary Hart Warren
   B. Rudman Co-Chair Co-Chair iv Preface he U.S. Commission on National
   Security/21st Century was born more than two years Tago out of a
   conviction that the entire range of U.S. national security policies and
   processes required reexamination in light of new circumstances. Those
   circumstances encompass not only the changed geopolitical reality after
   the Cold War, but also the significant technological, social, and
   intellectual changes that are occurring. Prominent among such changes
   is the information revolution and the accelerating discontinuities in a
   range of scientific and technological areas. Another is the increased
   integration of global finance and commerce, commonly called
   "globalization." Yet another is the ascendance of democratic governance
   and free-market economics to unprecedented levels, and another still
   the increasing importance of both multinational and non-governmental
   actors in global affairs. The routines of professional life, too, in
   business, university, and other domains in advanced countries have been
   affected by the combination of new technologies and new management
   techniques. The internal cultures of organizations have been changing,
   usually in ways that make them more efficient and effective. The
   creators of this Commission believed that unless the U.S. government
   adapts itself to these changes-and to dramatic changes still to come-it
   will fall out of step with the world of the 21st century. Nowhere will
   the risks of doing so be more manifest than in the realm of national
   security. Mindful of the likely scale of change ahead, this
   Commission's sponsors urged it to be bold and comprehensive in its
   undertaking. That meant thinking out a quarter century, not just to the
   next election or to the next federal budget cycle. That meant searching
   out how government should work, undeterred by the institutional inertia
   that today determines how it does work. Not least, it meant conceiving
   national security not as narrowly defined, but as it ought to be
   defined-to include economics, technology, and education for a new age
   in which novel opportunities and challenges coexist uncertainly with
   familiar ones. The fourteen Commissioners involved in this undertaking,
   one that engaged their energies for over two years, have worked hard
   and they have worked well.2 Best of all, despite diverse experiences
   and views, they have transcended partisanship to work together in
   recognition of the seriousness of the task: nothing less than to assure
   the well-being of this Republic a quarter century hence. This
   Commission has conducted its work in three phases. Phase I was
   dedicated to understanding how the world will likely evolve over the
   next 25 years. From that basis in prospective reality, Phase II devised
   a U.S. national security strategy to deal with that world. Phase III
   aims to reform government structures and processes to enable the U.S.
   government to implement that strategy, or, indeed, any strategy that
   would depart from the embedded routines of the last half-century. Phase
   I concluded in September 1999 with the publication of New World Coming:
   American Security in the 21st Century.3 Phase II produced the April
   2000 publication, Seeking a 2 See Appendix 3 for Commissioner
   biographies and a staff listing. 3 Publication consisted of two
   documents: Major Themes and Implications and Supporting Research and
   Analysis. v National Strategy: A Concert for Preserving Security and
   Promoting Freedom. Phase III, presented in these pages, is entitled
   Road Map for National Security: Imperative for Change. This report
   summarizes enough of the Commission's Phase I and Phase II work to
   establish an intellectual basis for understanding this Phase III
   report, but it does not repeat the texts of prior phases in detail. For
   those seeking fuller background to this report, the Commission's
   earlier works should be consulted directly.4 n Road Map for National
   Security, the Commission has endeavored to complete the Ilogic of its
   three phases of work, moving from analysis to strategy to the redesign
   of the structures and processes of the U.S. national security system.
   For example, in Phase I the Commission stressed that mass-casualty
   terrorism directed against the U.S. homeland was of serious and growing
   concern. It therefore proposed in Phase II a strategy that prioritizes
   deterring, defending against, and responding effectively to such
   dangers. Thus, in Phase III, it recommends a new National Homeland
   Security Agency to consolidate and refine the missions of the nearly
   two dozen disparate departments and agencies that have a role in U.S.
   homeland security today. That said, not every Phase I finding and not
   every Phase II proposal has generated a major Phase III recommendation.
   Not every aspect of U.S. national security organization needs an
   overhaul. Moreover, some challenges are best met, and some
   opportunities are best achieved, by crafting better policies, not by
   devising new organizational structures or processes. Where appropriate,
   this report notes those occasions and is not reluctant to suggest new
   policy directions. Many of the recommendations made herein require
   legislation to come into being. Many others, however, require only
   Presidential order or departmental directive. These latter
   recommendations are not necessarily of lesser importance and can be
   implemented quickly. The Commission anticipates that some of its
   recommendations will win wide support. Other recommendations may
   generate controversy and even opposition, as is to be expected when
   dealing with such serious and complex issues. We trust that the ensuing
   debate will ultimately yield the very best use of this Commission's
   work for the benefit of the American people. rganizational reform is
   not a panacea. There is no perfect organizational design, no Oflawless
   managerial fix. The reason is that organizations are made up of people,
   and people invariably devise informal means of dealing with one another
   in accord with the accidents of personality and temperament. Even
   excellent organizational structure cannot make impetuous or mistaken
   leaders patient or wise, but poor organizational design can make good
   leaders less effective. Sound organization is important. It can ensure
   that problems reach their proper level of decision quickly and
   efficiently and can balance the conflicting imperatives inherent in any
   national security decision-system-between senior involvement and expert
   input, between speed and the need to consider a variety of views,
   between tactical flexibility and strategic consistency. President
   Eisenhower summarized it best: "Organization cannot make a genius out
   of a dunce. But it can provide its head with the facts he needs, and
   help him avoid misinformed mistakes." Most important, good organization
   helps assure accountability. At every level of organization, elected
   officials-and particularly the President as Commander-in-Chief-must be
   4 All of this Commission's reports may be found on its web page at
   www.nssg.gov. vi able to ascertain quickly and surely who is in charge.
   But in a government that has expanded through serial incremental
   adjustment rather than according to an overall plan, finding those
   responsible to make things go right, or those responsible when things
   go wrong, can be a very formidable task. This, we may be sure, is not
   what the Founders had in mind. This Commission has done its best to
   step up to the mandate of its Charter. It is now up to others to do
   their best to bring the benefits of this Commission's effort into the
   institutions of American government. Charles G. Boyd, General, USAF
   (Ret.) Executive Director vii Executive Summary fter our examination of
   the new strategic environment of the next quarter century A(Phase I)
   and of a strategy to address it (Phase II), this Commission concludes
   that significant changes must be made in the structures and processes
   of the U.S. national security apparatus. Our institutional base is in
   decline and must be rebuilt. Otherwise, the United States risks losing
   its global influence and critical leadership role. We offer
   recommendations for organizational change in five key areas: ! ensuring
   the security of the American homeland; ! recapitalizing America's
   strengths in science and education; ! redesigning key institutions of
   the Executive Branch; ! overhauling the U.S. government's military and
   civilian personnel systems; and ! reorganizing Congress's role in
   national security affairs. We have taken a broad view of national
   security. In the new era, sharp distinctions between "foreign" and
   "domestic" no longer apply. We do not equate national security with
   "defense." We do believe in the centrality of strategy, and of seizing
   opportunities as well as confronting dangers. If the structures and
   processes of the U.S. government stand still amid a world of change,
   the United States will lose its capacity to shape history, and will
   instead be shaped by it. Securing the National Homeland he combination
   of unconventional weapons proliferation with the persistence of
   Tinternational terrorism will end the relative invulnerability of the
   U.S. homeland to catastrophic attack. A direct attack against American
   citizens on American soil is likely over the next quarter century. The
   risk is not only death and destruction but also a demoralization that
   could undermine U.S. global leadership. In the face of this threat, our
   nation has no coherent or integrated governmental structures. We
   therefore recommend the creation of an independent National Homeland
   Security Agency (NHSA) with responsibility for planning, coordinating,
   and integrating various U.S. government activities involved in homeland
   security. NHSA would be built upon the Federal Emergency Management
   Agency, with the three organizations currently on the front line of
   border security-the Coast Guard, the Customs Service, and the Border
   Patrol-transferred to it. NHSA would not only protect American lives,
   but also assume responsibility for overseeing the protection of the
   nation's critical infrastructure, including information technology. The
   NHSA Director would have Cabinet status and would be a statutory
   advisor to the National Security Council. The legal foundation for the
   National Homeland Security Agency would rest firmly within the array of
   Constitutional guarantees for civil liberties. The observance of these
   guarantees in the event of a national security emergency would be
   safeguarded by NHSA's interagency coordinating activities-which would
   include the Department of Justice-as well as by its conduct of advance
   exercises. The potentially catastrophic nature of homeland attacks
   necessitates our being prepared to use the extensive resources of the
   Department of Defense (DoD). Therefore, the department viii needs to
   pay far more attention to this mission in the future. We recommend that
   a new office of Assistant Secretary for Homeland Security be created to
   oversee DoD activities in this domain and to ensure that the necessary
   resources are made available. New priorities also need to be set for
   the U.S. armed forces in light of the threat to the homeland. We urge,
   in particular, that the National Guard be given homeland security as a
   primary mission, as the U.S. Constitution itself ordains. The National
   Guard should be reorganized, trained, and equipped to undertake that
   mission. Finally, we recommend that Congress reorganize itself to
   accommodate this Executive Branch realignment, and that it also form a
   special select committee for homeland security to provide Congressional
   support and oversight in this critical area. Recapitalizing America's
   Strengths in Science and Education mericans are living off the economic
   and security benefits of the last three Agenerations' investment in
   science and education, but we are now consuming capital. Our systems of
   basic scientific research and education are in serious crisis, while
   other countries are redoubling their efforts. In the next quarter
   century, we will likely see ourselves surpassed, and in relative
   decline, unless we make a conscious national commitment to maintain our
   edge. We also face unprecedented opportunity. The world is entering an
   era of dramatic progress in bioscience and materials science as well as
   information technology and scientific instrumentation. Brought together
   and accelerated by nanoscience, these rapidly developing research
   fields will transform our understanding of the world and our capacity
   to manipulate it. The United States can remain the world's
   technological leader if it makes the commitment to do so. But the U.S.
   government has seriously underfunded basic scientific research in
   recent years. The quality of the U.S. education system, too, has fallen
   behind those of scores of other nations. This has occurred at a time
   when vastly more Americans will have to understand and work competently
   with science and math on a daily basis. In this Commission's view, the
   inadequacies of our systems of research and education pose a greater
   threat to U.S. national security over the next quarter century than any
   potential conventional war that we might imagine. American national
   leadership must understand these deficiencies as threats to national
   security. If we do not invest heavily and wisely in rebuilding these
   two core strengths, America will be incapable of maintaining its global
   position long into the 21st century. We therefore recommend doubling
   the federal research and development budget by 2010, and instituting a
   more competitive environment for the allotment of those funds. We
   recommend further that the role of the President's Science Advisor be
   elevated to oversee these and other critical tasks, such as the
   resuscitation of the national laboratory system and the institution of
   better inventory stewardship over the nation's science and technology
   assets. We also recommend a new National Security Science and
   Technology Education Act to fund a comprehensive program to produce the
   needed numbers of science and engineering professionals as well as
   qualified teachers in science and math. This Act should provide loan ix
   forgiveness incentives to attract those who have graduated and
   scholarships for those still in school and should provide these
   incentives in exchange for a period of K-12 teaching in science and
   math, or of military or government service. Additional measures should
   provide resources to modernize laboratories in science education, and
   expand existing programs aimed at helping economically-depressed school
   districts. Institutional Redesign he dramatic changes in the world
   since the end of the Cold War have not been Taccompanied by any major
   institutional changes in the Executive Branch of the U.S. government.
   Serious deficiencies exist that only a significant organizational
   redesign can remedy. Most troublesome is the lack of an overarching
   strategic framework guiding U.S. national security policymaking and
   resource allocation. Clear goals and priorities are rarely set. Budgets
   are prepared and appropriated as they were during the Cold War. The
   Department of State, in particular, is a crippled institution, starved
   for resources by Congress because of its inadequacies, and thereby
   weakened further. Only if the State Department's internal weaknesses
   are cured will it become an effective leader in the making and
   implementation of the nation's foreign policy. Only then can it
   credibly seek significant funding increases from Congress. The
   department suffers in particular from an ineffective organizational
   structure in which regional and functional policies do not serve
   integrated goals, and in which sound management, accountability, and
   leadership are lacking. For this and other reasons, the power to
   determine national security policy has steadily migrated toward the
   National Security Council (NSC) staff. The staff now assumes
   policymaking roles that many observers have warned against. Yet the NSC
   staff's role as policy coordinator is more urgently needed than ever,
   given the imperative of integrating the many diverse strands of
   policymaking. Meanwhile, the U.S. intelligence community is adjusting
   only slowly to the changed circumstances of the post-Cold War era.
   While the economic and political components of statecraft have assumed
   greater prominence, military imperatives still largely drive the
   collection and analysis of intelligence. Neither has America's overseas
   presence been properly adapted to the new economic, social, political,
   and security realities of the 21st century. Finally, the Department of
   Defense needs to be overhauled. The growth in staff and staff
   activities has created mounting confusion and delay. The failure to
   outsource or privatize many defense support activities wastes huge sums
   of money. The programming and budgeting process is not guided by
   effective strategic planning. The weapons acquisition process is so
   hobbled by excessive laws, regulations, and oversight strictures that
   it can neither recognize nor seize opportunities for major innovation,
   and its procurement bureaucracy weakens a defense industry that is
   already in a state of financial crisis. n light of such serious and
   interwoven deficiencies, the Commission's initial Irecommendation is
   that strategy should once again drive the design and implementation of
   U.S. national security policies. That means that the President should
   personally guide a top-down strategic planning process and that process
   should be linked to the allocation of resources throughout the
   government. When submitting his budgets for the various x national
   security departments, the President should also present an overall
   national security budget, focused on the nation's most critical
   strategic goals. Homeland security, counter- terrorism, and science and
   technology should be included. We recommend further that the
   President's National Security Advisor and NSC staff return to their
   traditional role of coordinating national security activities and
   resist the temptation to become policymakers or operators. The NSC
   Advisor should also keep a low public profile. Legislative, press
   communications, and speech-writing functions should reside in the White
   House staff, not separately in the NSC staff as they do today. The
   higher the profile of the National Security Advisor the greater will be
   the pressures from Congress to compel testimony and force Senate
   confirmation of the position. To reflect how central economics has
   become in U.S. national security policy, we recommend that the
   Secretary of Treasury be named a statutory member of the National
   Security Council. Responsibility for international economic policy
   should return to the National Security Council. The President should
   abolish the National Economic Council, distributing its domestic
   economic policy responsibilities to the Domestic Policy Council.
   ritical to the future success of U.S. national security policies is a
   fundamental restructuring C of the State Department. Reform must ensure
   that responsibility and accountability are clearly established,
   regional and functional activities are closely integrated, foreign
   assistance programs are centrally planned and implemented, and
   strategic planning is emphasized and linked to the allocation of
   resources. We recommend that this be accomplished through the creation
   of five Under Secretaries with responsibility for overseeing the
   regions of Africa, Asia, Europe, Inter- America, and Near East/South
   Asia, and a redefinition of the responsibilities of the Under Secretary
   for Global Affairs. The restructuring we propose would position the
   State Department to play a leadership role in the making and
   implementation of U.S. foreign policy, as well as to harness the
   department's organizational culture to the benefit of the U.S.
   government as a whole. Perhaps most important, the Secretary of State
   would be free to focus on the most important policies and negotiations,
   having delegated responsibility for integrating regional and functional
   issues to the Under Secretaries. Accountability would be matched with
   responsibility in senior policymakers, who in serving the Secretary
   would be able to speak for the State Department both within the
   interagency process and before Congress. No longer would competing
   regional and functional perspectives immobilize the department. At the
   same time, functional perspectives, whether they be human rights, arms
   control, or the environment, will not disappear. The Under Secretaries
   would be clearly accountable to the Secretary of State, the President,
   and the Congress for ensuring that the appropriate priority was given
   to these concerns. Someone would actually be in charge. We further
   recommend that the activities of the U.S. Agency for International
   Development be fully integrated into this new State Department
   organization. Development aid is not an end in itself, nor can it be
   successful if pursued independently of other U.S. programs and
   diplomatic activities. Only a coordinated diplomatic and assistance
   effort will advance the nation's goals abroad, whether they be economic
   growth, democracy, or human rights. The Secretary of State should give
   greater emphasis to strategic planning in the State Department and link
   it directly to the allocation of resources through the establishment of
   a xi Strategic Planning, Assistance, and Budget Office. Rather than
   multiple Congressional appropriations, the State Department should also
   be funded in a single integrated Foreign Operations budget, which would
   include all foreign assistance programs and activities as well as the
   expenses for all related personnel and operations. Also, all U.S.
   Ambassadors, including the Permanent Representative to the United
   Nations, should report directly to the Secretary of State, and a major
   effort needs to be undertaken to "right-size" the U.S. overseas
   presence. The Commission believes that the resulting improvements in
   the effectiveness and competency of the State Department and its
   overseas activities would provide the basis for the significant
   increase in resources necessary to carry out the nation's foreign
   policy in the 21st century. s for the Department of Defense, resource
   issues are also very much at stake in Areform efforts. The key to
   success will be direct, sustained involvement and commitment to defense
   reform on the part of the President, Secretary of Defense, and
   Congressional leadership. We urge first and foremost that the new
   Secretary of Defense reduce by ten to fifteen percent the staffs of the
   Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Joint Staff, the military
   services, and the regional commands. This would not only save money but
   also achieve the decision speed and encourage the decentralization
   necessary for any organization to succeed in the 21st century. Just as
   critical, the Secretary of Defense should establish a ten-year goal of
   reducing infrastructure costs by 20-25 percent through steps to
   consolidate, restructure, outsource, and privatize as many DoD support
   agencies and activities as possible. Only through savings in
   infrastructure costs, which now take up nearly half of DoD's budget,
   will the department find the funds necessary for modernization and for
   combat personnel in the long-term. The processes by which the Defense
   Department develops its programs and budgets as well as acquires its
   weapons also need fundamental reform. The most critical first step is
   for the Secretary of Defense to produce defense policy and planning
   guidance that defines specific goals and establishes relative
   priorities. Together with the Congress, the Secretary of Defense should
   move the Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR) to the second year of a
   Presidential term. The current requirement, that it be done in an
   administration's first year, spites the purpose of the activity. Such a
   deadline does not allow the time or the means for an incoming
   administration to influence the QDR outcome, and therefore for it to
   gain a stake in its conclusions. We recommend a second change in the
   QDR, as well; namely that the Secretary of Defense introduce a new
   process that requires the Services and defense agencies to compete for
   the allocation of some resources within the overall defense budget.
   This, we believe, would give the Secretary a vehicle to identify low
   priority programs and begin the process of reallocating funds to more
   promising areas during subsequent budget cycles. As for acquisition
   reform, the Commission is deeply concerned with the downward spiral
   that has emerged in recent decades in relations between the Pentagon as
   customer and the defense industrial base as supplier of the nation's
   major weapons systems. Many innovative high-tech firms are simply
   unable or unwilling to work with the Defense Department under the
   weight of its auditing, contracting, profitability, investment, and
   inspection regulations. These regulations also impair the Defense
   Department's ability to function with the speed it needs to keep
   abreast of xii today's rapid pace of technological innovation. Weapons
   development cycles average nine years in an environment where
   technology now changes every twelve to eighteen months in Silicon
   Valley-and the gap between private sector and defense industry
   innovation continues to widen. In place of a specialized "defense
   industrial base," we believe that the nation needs a national
   industrial base for defense composed of a broad cross-section of
   commercial firms as well as the more traditional defense firms. "New
   economy" sectors must be attracted to work with the government on sound
   business and professional grounds; the more traditional defense
   suppliers, which fill important needs unavailable in the commercial
   sector, must be given incentives to innovate and operate efficiently.
   We therefore recommend these major steps: ! Establish and employ a
   two-track acquisition system, one for major acquisitions and a "fast
   track" for a modest number of potential breakthrough systems,
   especially those in the area of command and control. ! Return to the
   pattern of increased prototyping and testing of selected weapons and
   support systems to foster innovation. We should use testing procedures
   to gain knowledge and not to demonstrate a program's ability to survive
   budgetary scrutiny. ! Implement two-year defense budgeting solely for
   the modernization element (R&D/procurement) of the defense budget and
   expand the use of multi-year procurement. ! Modernize auditing and
   oversight requirements (by rewriting relevant sections of U.S. Code,
   Title 10, and the Federal Acquisition Regulations) with a goal of
   reducing the number of auditors and inspectors in the acquisition
   system to a level commensurate with the budget they oversee. Beyond
   other process reforms for the Defense Department, the Commission offers
   its suggestions on the force structure process. We conclude that the
   concept of two major, coincident wars is a remote possibility supported
   neither by actual intelligence estimates nor by this Commission's view
   of the likely future. It should be replaced by a new approach that
   accelerates the transformation of capabilities and forces better suited
   to the security environment that predominantly exists today. The
   Secretary of Defense should direct the DoD to shift from the
   threat-based, force sizing process to one which measures requirements
   against recent operational activity trends, actual intelligence
   estimates of potential adversaries' capabilities, and national security
   objectives as defined in the new administration's national security
   strategy. The Commission furthermore recommends that the Secretary of
   Defense revise the current categories of Major Force Programs (MFPs)
   used in the Defense Program Review to correspond to focus on providing
   a different mix of military capabilities. Ultimately, the
   transformation process will blur the distinction between expeditionary
   and conventional forces, as both types of capabilities will eventually
   possess enhanced mobility. For the near term, however, those we call
   expeditionary capabilities require the most emphasis. Consequently, we
   recommend that the Defense Department devote its highest priority to
   improving and further developing its expeditionary capabilities. here
   is no more critical dimension of defense policy than to guarantee U.S.
   Tcommercial and military access to outer space. The U.S. economy and
   military are xiii vitally dependent on communications that rely on
   space. The clear imperative for the new era is a comprehensive national
   policy toward space and a coherent governmental machinery to carry it
   out. We therefore recommend the establishment of an Interagency Working
   Group on Space (IWGS). The members of this interagency working group
   would include not only the relevant parts of the intelligence community
   and the State and Defense Departments, but also the National
   Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the National Oceanic and
   Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), the Department of Commerce, and
   other Executive Branch agencies as necessary. Meanwhile, the global
   presence and responsibilities of the United States have brought new
   requirements for protecting U.S. space and communications
   infrastructures, but no comprehensive national space architecture has
   been developed. We recommend that such responsibility be given to the
   new interagency space working group and that the existing National
   Security Space Architect be transferred from the Defense Department to
   the NSC staff to take the lead in this effort. he Commission has
   concluded that the basic structure of the intelligence community Tdoes
   not require change. Our focus is on those steps that will enable the
   full implementation of recommendations found elsewhere within this
   report. First in this regard, we recommend that the President order the
   setting of national intelligence priorities through National Security
   Council guidance to the Director of Central Intelligence. Second, the
   intelligence community should emphasize the recruitment of human
   intelligence sources on terrorism as one of its highest priorities, and
   ensure that existing operational guidelines support this policy. Third,
   the community should place new emphasis on collection and analysis of
   economic and science/technology security concerns, and incorporate more
   open source intelligence into its analytical products. To facilitate
   this effort, Congress should increase significantly the National
   Foreign Intelligence Program (NFIP) budget for collection and analysis.
   The Human Requirements for National Security s it enters the 21st
   century, the United States finds itself on the brink of an
   Aunprecedented crisis of competence in government. The declining
   orientation toward government service as a prestigious career is deeply
   troubling. Both civilian and military institutions face growing
   challenges, albeit of different forms and degrees, in recruiting and
   retaining America's most promising talent. This problem derives from
   multiple sources-ample private sector opportunities with good pay and
   fewer bureaucratic frustrations, rigid governmental personnel
   procedures, the absence of a single overarching threat like the Cold
   War to entice service, cynicism about the worthiness of government
   service, and perceptions of government as a plodding bureaucracy
   falling behind in a technological age of speed and accuracy. xiv These
   factors are adversely affecting recruitment and retention in the Civil
   and Foreign Services and particularly throughout the military, where
   deficiencies are both widening the gap between those who serve and the
   rest of American society and putting in jeopardy the leadership and
   professionalism necessary for an effective military. If we allow the
   human resources of government to continue to decay, none of the reforms
   proposed by this or any other national security commission will produce
   their intended results. We recommend, first of all, a national campaign
   to reinvigorate and enhance the prestige of service to the nation. The
   key step in such a campaign must be to revive a positive attitude
   toward public service. This will require strong and consistent
   Presidential commitment, Congressional legislation, and innovative
   departmental actions throughout the federal government. It is the duty
   of all political leaders to repair the damage that has been done, in a
   high-profile and fully bipartisan manner. Beyond changes in rhetoric,
   the campaign must undertake several actions. First, this Commission
   recommends the most urgent possible streamlining of the process by
   which we attract senior government officials. The ordeal that
   Presidential nominees are subjected to is now so great as to make it
   prohibitive for many individuals of talent and experience to accept
   public service. The confirmation process is characterized by vast
   amounts of paperwork and many delays. Conflict of interest and
   financial disclosure requirements have become a prohibitive obstacle to
   the recruitment of honest men and women to public service.
   Post-employment restrictions confront potential new recruits with the
   prospect of having to forsake not only income but work itself in the
   very fields in which they have demonstrated talent and found success.
   Meanwhile, a pervasive atmosphere of distrust and cynicism about
   government service is reinforced by the encrustation of complex rules
   based on the assumption that all officials, and especially those with
   experience in or contact with the private sector, are criminals waiting
   to be unmasked. We therefore recommend the following: ! That the
   President act to shorten and make more efficient the Presidential
   appointee process by confirming the national security team first,
   standardizing paperwork requirements, and reducing the number of
   nominees subject to full FBI background checks. ! That the President
   reduce the number of Senate-confirmed and non-career SES positions by
   25 percent to reduce the layering of senior positions in departments
   that has developed over time. ! That the President and Congressional
   leaders instruct their top aides to report within 90 days of January
   20, 2001 on specific steps to revise government ethics laws and
   regulations. This should entail a comprehensive review of regulations
   that might exceed statutory requirements and making blind trusts,
   discretionary waivers, and recusals more easily available as
   alternatives to complete divestiture of financial and business holdings
   of concern. Beyond the appointments process, there are problems with
   government personnel systems specific to the Foreign Service, the Civil
   Service, and to the military services. But for all three, there is one
   step we urge: Expand the National Security Education Act of 1991 (NSEA)
   to include broad support for social sciences, humanities, and foreign
   languages in exchange for civilian government and military service. xv
   This expanded Act is the complement to the National Security Science
   and Technology Education Act (NSSTEA) and would provide college
   scholarship and loan forgiveness benefits for government service.
   Recipients could fulfill this service in a variety of ways: in the
   active duty military; in National Guard or Reserve units; in national
   security departments of the Civil Service; or in the Foreign Service.
   The expanded NSEA thus would provide an important means of recruiting
   high-quality people into military and civilian government service. An
   effective and motivated Foreign Service is critical to the success of
   the Commission's restructuring proposal for the State Department, yet
   25 percent fewer people are now taking the entrance exam compared to
   the mid-1980s. Those who do enter complain of poor management and
   inadequate professional education. We therefore recommend that the
   Foreign Service system be improved by making leadership a core value of
   the State Department, revamping the examination process, and
   dramatically improving the level of on-going professional education.
   The Civil Service faces a range of problems from the aging of the
   federal workforce to institutional challenges in bringing new workers
   into government service to critical gaps in recruiting and retaining
   information technology professionals. To address these problems, the
   Commission recommends eliminating recruitment hurdles, making the
   hiring process faster and easier, and designing professional education
   and retention programs worthy of full funding by Congress. Retaining
   talented information technology workers, too, will require greater
   incentives and the outsourcing of some IT support functions. The
   national security component of the Civil Service calls for
   professionals with breadth of experience in the interagency process and
   with depth of knowledge about policy issues. To develop these, we
   recommend the establishment of a National Security Service Corps (NSSC)
   to broaden the experience base of senior departmental managers and
   develop leaders who seek integrative solutions to national security
   policy problems. Participating departments would include Defense,
   State, Treasury, Commerce, Justice, Energy, and the new National
   Homeland Security Agency-the departments essential to interagency
   policymaking on key national security issues. While participating
   departments would retain control over their personnel, an interagency
   advisory group would design and monitor the rotational assignments and
   professional education that will be key to the Corps' success. With
   respect to military personnel, reform is needed in the recruitment,
   promotion, compensation, and retirement systems. Otherwise, the
   military will continue to lose its most talented personnel, and the
   armed services will be left with a cadre unable to handle the
   technological and managerial tasks necessary for a world-class 21st
   century force. Beyond the significant expansion of scholarships and
   debt relief programs recommended in both the modified National Security
   Education Act and the newly created National Security Science and
   Technology Education Act, we recommend substantial enhancements to the
   Montgomery GI Bill and strengthening recently passed and pending
   legislation that supports enhanced benefits-including transition,
   medical, and homeownership-for qualified veterans. The GI Bill should
   be restored as a pure entitlement, be transferable to dependents if
   desired by career service members, and should equal, at the very least,
   the median tuition cost of four-year U.S. colleges. Payments should be
   accelerated to coincide with school term periods and be indexed to keep
   pace with college cost increases. In addition, Title 38 authority for
   veterans benefits should be modified to restore and substantially
   improve medical, dental, and VA home ownership benefits for all who
   qualify, but especially for career and retired service members. xvi
   Taken as a package, such changes will help bring the best people into
   the armed service and persuade quality personnel to serve longer in
   order to secure greater rewards for their service. While these
   enhancements are critical they will not, by themselves, resolve the
   quality recruitment and retention problems of the Services. We
   therefore recommend significant modifications to military personnel
   legislation governing officer and enlisted career management,
   retirement, and compensation-giving Service Secretaries more authority
   and flexibility to adapt their personnel systems and career management
   to meet 21st century requirements. This should include flexible
   compensation and retirement plans, exemption from "up-or-out" mandates,
   and reform of personnel systems to facilitate fluid movement of
   personnel. If we do not decentralize and modernize the governing
   personnel legislation, no military reform or transformation is
   possible. We also call for an Executive-Legislative working group to
   monitor, evaluate and share information about the testing and
   implementation of these recommendations. With bipartisan cooperation,
   our military will remain one of this nation's most treasured
   institutions and our safeguard in the changing world ahead. The Role of
   Congress hile Congress has mandated many changes to a host of Executive
   Branch departm W ents and agencies over the years, it has not
   fundamentally reviewed its own role in national security policy.
   Moreover, it has not reformed its own structure since 1949. At present,
   for example, every major defense program must be voted upon no fewer
   than eighteen times each year by an array of committees and
   subcommittees. This represents a very poor use of time for busy members
   of the Executive and Legislative Branches. To address these
   deficiencies, the Commission first recommends that the Congressional
   leadership conduct a thorough bicameral, bipartisan review of the
   Legislative Branch's relationship to national security and foreign
   policy. The House Speaker, Majority, and Minority leaders and the
   Senate Majority and Minority leaders must work with the President and
   his top aides to bring proposed reforms to this Congress by the
   beginning of its second session. From that basis, Congressional and
   Executive Branch leaders must build programs to encourage members to
   acquire knowledge and experience in national security. These programs
   should include ongoing education, greater opportunities for serious
   overseas travel, more legislature-to-legislature exchanges, and greater
   participation in wargames. Greater fluency in national security matters
   must be matched by structural reforms. A comprehensive review of the
   Congressional committee structure is needed to ensure that it reflects
   the complexity of 21st century security challenges and of U.S. national
   security priorities. Specifically we recommend merging appropriations
   subcommittees with their respective authorizing committees so that the
   new merged committees will authorize and appropriate within the same
   bill. This should decrease the bureaucratic redundancy of the budget
   process and allow more time to be devoted to the oversight of national
   security policy. An effective Congressional role in national security
   also requires ongoing Executive- Legislative consultation and
   coordination. The Executive Branch must ensure a sustained effort in
   consultation and devote resources to it. For its part, Congress must
   make consultation a higher priority, in part by forming a permanent
   consultative group composed of the Congressional leadership and the
   Chairpersons and Ranking Members of the main committees involved in
   xvii national security. This will form the basis for sustained dialogue
   and greater support in times of crisis. he Commission notes, in
   conclusion, that some of its recommendations will save Tmoney, while
   others call for more expenditure. We have not tried to "balance the
   books" among our recommendations, nor have we held financial
   implications foremost in mind during our work. We consider any money
   that may be saved a second-order benefit. We consider the provision of
   additional resources to national security, where necessary, to be
   investments, not costs, in first-order national priorities. Finally, we
   strongly urge the new President and the Congressional leadership to
   establish some mechanism to oversee the implementation of the
   recommendations proffered here. Once some mechanism is chosen, the
   President must ensure that responsibility for implementing the
   recommendations of this Commission be given explicitly to senior
   personnel in both the Executive and Legislative Branches of government.
   The press of daily obligations is such that unless such delegation is
   made, and those given responsibility for implementation are held
   accountable for their tasks, the necessary reforms will not occur. The
   stakes are high. We of this Commission believe that many thousands of
   American lives, U.S. leadership among the community of nations, and the
   fate of U.S. national security itself are at risk unless the President
   and the Congress join together to implement the recommendations set
   forth in this report. xviii Introduction: Imperative for Change he U.S.
   Commission on National Security/ 21st Century was chartered to be the
   most Tcomprehensive examination of the structures and processes of the
   U.S. national security apparatus since the core legislation governing
   it was passed in 1947. The Commission's Charter enjoins the
   Commissioners to "propose measures to adapt existing national security
   structures" to new circumstances, and, if necessary, "to create new
   structures where none exist." The Commission is also charged with
   providing "cost and time estimates to complete these improvements," as
   appropriate, for what is to be, in sum, "an institutional road map for
   the early part of the 21st century."5 This Phase III report provides
   such a road map. But Phase III rests on the first two phases of the
   Commission's work: Phase I's examination of how the world may evolve
   over the next quarter century, and Phase II's strategy to deal
   effectively with that world on behalf of American interests and values.
   In its Phase I effort, this Commission stressed that global trends in
   scientific- technological, economic, socio-political, and
   military-security domains-as they mutually interact over the next 25
   years-will produce fundamental qualitative changes in the U.S. national
   security environment. We arrived at these fourteen conclusions: ! The
   United States will become increasingly vulnerable to hostile attack on
   the American homeland, and U.S. military superiority will not entirely
   protect us. ! Rapid advances in information and biotechnologies will
   create new vulnerabilities for U.S. security. ! New technologies will
   divide the world as well as draw it together. ! The national security
   of all advanced states will be increasingly affected by the
   vulnerabilities of the evolving global economic infrastructure. !
   Energy supplies will continue to have major strategic significance. !
   All borders will be more porous; some will bend and some will break. !
   The sovereignty of states will come under pressure, but will endure as
   the main principle of international political organization. ! The
   fragmentation and failure of some states will occur, with destabilizing
   effects on entire regions. ! Foreign crises will be replete with
   atrocities and the deliberate terrorizing of civilian populations. !
   Space will become a critical and competitive military environment. !
   The essence of war will not change. 5 See Appendix 2 for the full text
   of the Charter. 2 ! U.S. intelligence will face more challenging
   adversaries, and even excellent intelligence will not prevent all
   surprises. ! The United States will be called upon frequently to
   intervene militarily in a time of uncertain alliances, and with the
   prospect of fewer forward-deployed forces. ! The emerging security
   environment in the next quarter century will require different U.S.
   military and other national capabilities. The Commission's stress on
   communicating the scale and pace of change has been borne out by
   extraordinary developments in science and technology in just the
   eighteen-month period since the Phase I report appeared. The mapping of
   the human genome was completed. A functioning quantum computing device
   was invented. Organic and inorganic material was mated at the molecular
   level for the first time. Basic mechanisms of the aging process have
   been understood at the genetic level. Any one of these developments
   would have qualified as a "breakthrough of the decade" a quarter
   century ago, but they all happened within the past year and a half.
   This suggests the possible advent of a period of change the scale of
   which will often astound us. The key factor driving change in America's
   national security environment over the next 25 years will be the
   acceleration of scientific discovery and its technological
   applications, and the uneven human social and psychological capacity to
   harness them. Synergistic developments in information technology,
   materials science, biotechnology, and nanotechnology will almost
   certainly transform human tools more dramatically and rapidly than at
   any time in human history. While it is easy to underestimate the social
   implications of change on such a scale, the need for human intellectual
   and social adaptation imposes limits to the pace of change. These
   limits are healthy, for they allow and encourage the application of the
   human moral sense to choices of major import. We will surely have our
   hands full with such choices over the next quarter century. In that
   time we may witness the development of a capacity to guide or control
   evolution by manipulating human DNA. The ability to join organic and
   inorganic material forms suggests that humans may co-evolve literally
   with their own machines. Such prospects are both sobering and
   contentious. Some look to the future with great hope for the prospect
   of curing disease, repairing broken bodies, ending poverty, and
   preserving the biosphere. But others worry that curiosity and vanity
   will outrun the human moral sense, thus turning hope into disaster. The
   truth is that we do not know where the rapidly expanding domain of
   scientific-technological innovation will bring us. Nor do we know the
   extent to which we can summon the collective moral fortitude to control
   its outcome. hat we do know is that some societies, and some people
   within societies, will be at the forefront of future scientific- W
   technological developments and others will be marginal to them. This
   means more polarization between those with wealth and power and those
   without-both among and within societies. It suggests, as well, that
   many engrained social patterns will become unstable, for
   scientific-technological innovation has profound, if generally
   unintended, effects on economic organization, social values, and
   political life. In the Internet age, for example, information
   technologies may be used to empower communities and advance freedoms,
   but they can also empower political movements led by 3 charismatic
   leaders with irrational premises. Such men and women in the 21st
   century will be less bound than those of the 20th by the limits of the
   state, and less obliged to gain large industrial capabilities in order
   to wreck havoc. For example, a few people with as little as a $50,000
   investment may manage to produce and spread a genetically-altered
   pathogen with the potential to kill millions of people in a matter of
   months. Clearly, the threshold for small groups or even individuals to
   inflict massive damage on those they take to be their enemies is
   falling dramatically. As for political life, it is clear that the
   rapidity of change is already overwhelming many states in what used to
   be called the Third World. Overlaid on the enduring plagues of
   corruption and sheer bad government is a new pattern: information
   technology has widened the awareness of democracy and market-driven
   prosperity, and has led to increasing symbolic and material demands on
   government. These demands often exceed existing organizational
   capacities to meet them. One result is that many national armies do not
   respond to government control. Another is that mercenaries, criminals,
   terrorists, and drug cartel operators roam widely and freely.
   Meanwhile, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) along with global
   financial institutions sometimes function as proxy service and
   regulatory bureaucracies to do for states that which they cannot do for
   themselves-further diminishing governmental control and political
   accountability. As a result of the growing porosity of borders, and of
   the widening scope of functional economic integration, significant
   political developments can no longer be managed solely through the
   vehicle of bilateral diplomatic relations. A seemingly internal crisis
   in Sierra Leone, carefully observed, implicates most of West Africa. A
   problem involving drug cultivation and political rebellion in Colombia
   cannot be addressed without involving Panama, Venezuela, Bolivia,
   Ecuador, Peru, Brazil, and Mexico. Financial problems in Thailand
   tumble willy-nilly onto Russia, Brazil, Japan, Indonesia, Malaysia, and
   the United States. Demography is another major driver of global
   political change. Population growth tends to moderate with increased
   literacy, urbanization, and especially changes in traditional values
   that attend the movement of women into the workplace. Thanks to these
   trends, the world's rate of population increase is slowing somewhat,
   but the absolute increases over the next quarter century will be
   enormous and coping with them will be a major challenge throughout much
   of the world. In some countries, however, the problem will be too few
   births. In Japan and Germany, for example, social security and private
   pension systems may face enormous strain because too few young workers
   will be available to support retirees living ever-longer lives. The use
   of foreign workers may be the only recourse for such societies, but
   that raises other political and social difficulties. Yet another driver
   of change may be sustained economic growth in particular parts of the
   world. Asia may well be the most economically dynamic region on earth
   by 2025. Much depends on China's ability to reform further the
   structure of its economy and on India's ability to unleash its vast
   economic potential. But if these two very large countries achieve
   sustained economic growth-and if the economies of Japan, Korea, Taiwan,
   Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Thailand, and Vietnam also
   grow-the focus of world power will shift away from the dominant Western
   centers of the past five centuries. While America is itself
   increasingly diverse, it still shares more philosophically and
   historically with Europe than with Asia. The challenge for the United
   States, then, may rest not only in a geostrategic shift, but in a shift
   in the cultural fabric of international politics itself. 4 n Phase II
   the Commission moved from describing objective conditions to
   prescribing Ia strategy for dealing with them. Subtitled A Concert for
   Preserving Security and Promoting Freedom, the Commission stressed that
   America cannot secure and advance its own interests in isolation. The
   nations of the world must work together-and the United States must
   learn to work with others in new ways-if the more cooperative order
   emerging from the Cold War epoch is to be sustained and strengthened.
   Nonetheless, this Commission takes as its premise that America must
   play a special international role well into the future. By dint of its
   power and its wealth, its interests and its values, the United States
   has a responsibility to itself and to others to reinforce international
   order. Only the United States can provide the ballast of global
   stability, and usually the United States is the only country in a
   position to organize collective responses to common challenges. We
   believe that American strategy must compose a balance between two key
   aims. The first is to reap the benefits of a more integrated world in
   order to expand freedom, security, and prosperity for Americans and for
   others. But second, American strategy must also strive to dampen the
   forces of global instability so that those benefits can endure and
   spread. On the positive side, this means that the United States should
   pursue, within the limits of what is prudent and realistic, the
   worldwide expansion of material abundance and the eradication of
   poverty. It should also promote political pluralism, freedom of thought
   and speech, and individual liberty. Not only do such aims inhere in
   American principles, they are practical goals, as well. There are no
   guarantees against violence and evil in the world. We believe,
   nonetheless, that the expansion of human rights and basic material
   well-being constitutes a sturdy bulwark against them. On the negative
   side, these goals require concerted protection against four related
   dangers: the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction;
   international terrorism; major interstate aggression; and the collapse
   of states into internal violence, with the associated regional
   destabilization that often accompanies it. These goals compose the
   lodestone of a U.S. strategy to expand freedom and maintain underlying
   stability, but, as we have said, the United States cannot achieve them
   by itself. American leadership must be prepared to act unilaterally if
   necessary, not least because the will to act alone is sometimes
   required to gain the cooperation of others. But U.S. policy should join
   its efforts with allies and multilateral institutions wherever
   possible; the United States is wise to strengthen its partners and in
   turn will derive strength from them. The United States, therefore, as
   the prime keeper of the international security commons, must speak and
   act in ways that lead others, by dint of their own interests, to ally
   with American goals. If it is too arrogant and self-possessed, American
   behavior will invariably stimulate the rise of opposing coalitions. The
   United States will thereby drive away many of its partners and weaken
   those that remain. Tone matters. o carry out this strategy and achieve
   these goals, the Commission defined six key Tobjectives for U.S.
   foreign and national security policy: First, the preeminent objective
   is "to defend the United States and ensure that it is safe from the
   dangers of a new era." The combination of unconventional weapons
   proliferation with the persistence of international terrorism will end
   the relative invulnerability of the U.S. homeland to catastrophic
   attack. To deter attack against the homeland in the 21st century, the 5
   United States requires a new triad of prevention, protection, and
   response. Failure to prevent mass-casualty attacks against the American
   homeland will jeopardize not only American lives but U.S. foreign
   policy writ large. It would undermine support for U.S. international
   leadership and for many of our personal freedoms, as well. Indeed, the
   abrupt undermining of U.S. power and prestige is the worst thing that
   could happen to the structure of global peace in the next quarter
   century, and nothing is more likely to produce it than devastating
   attacks on American soil. Achieving this goal, and the nation's other
   critical national security goals, also requires the U.S. government, as
   a second key objective, to "maintain America's social cohesion,
   economic competitiveness, technological ingenuity, and military
   strength." That means a larger investment in and better management of
   science and technology in government and in society, and a
   substantially better educational system, particularly for the teaching
   of science and mathematics. The United States must also take better
   advantage of the opportunities that the present period of relative
   international stability and American power enable. A third key
   objective, therefore, is "to assist the integration of key major
   powers, especially China, Russia, and India, into the mainstream of the
   emerging international system." Moreover, since globalization's
   opportunities are rooted in economic and political progress, the
   Commission's fourth key U.S. objective is "to promote, with others, the
   dynamism of the new global economy and improve the effectiveness of
   international institutions and international law." A fifth key
   objective also follows, which is "to adapt U.S. alliances and other
   regional mechanisms to a new era in which America's partners seek
   greater autonomy and responsibility." A sixth and final key objective
   inheres in an effort "to help the international community tame the
   disintegrative forces spawned by an era of change." While the prospect
   of major war is low, much of the planet will experience conflict and
   violence. Unless the United States, in concert with others, can find a
   way to limit that conflict and violence, it will not be able to
   construct a foreign policy agenda focussed on opportunities. Achieving
   all of these objectives will require a basic shift in orientation: to
   focus on preventing rather than simply responding to dangers and
   crises. The United States must redirect its energies, adjust its
   diplomacy, and redesign its military capabilities to ward off
   cross-border aggression, assist states before they fail, and avert
   systemic international financial crises. To succeed over the long run
   with a preventive focus, the United States needs to institutionalize
   its efforts to grasp the opportunities the international environment
   now offers. An opportunity-based strategy also has the merit of being
   more economical than a reactive one. Preventing a financial crisis,
   even if it involves well-timed bailouts, is cheaper than recuperating
   from stock market crashes and regional recessions. Preventing a violent
   conflict costs less than responsive peacekeeping operations and
   nation-building activities. And certainly, preventing mass-casualty
   attacks on the American homeland will be far less expensive than
   recovering from them. hese six objectives, and the Commission's
   strategy itself, rest on a premise so basic Tthat it often goes
   unstated: democracy conduces generally to domestic and international
   peace, and peace conduces to, or at least allows, democratic politics.
   While this premise is not a "law," and while scholars continue to study
   and debate these matters, we believe they are strong tendencies, and
   that they can be strengthened further by a consistent and determined
   national policy. We know, that a world characterized by the spread of
   genuine 6 democracy would not be flawless, nor signal "the end of
   history." But it is the best of all possible worlds that we can
   conceive, and that we can achieve. In Phase I, this Commission
   presented four "Worlds in Prospect," agglomerations of basic trends
   that, we believed, might describe the world in 2025. The Democratic
   Peace was one. Nationalism and Protectionism was a second, Division and
   Mayhem a third, and Globalism Triumphant the fourth. We, and presumably
   most observers, see the Democratic Peace as a positive future,
   Nationalism and Protectionism as a step in the wrong direction,
   Division and Mayhem as full-fledged tragedy. But the Globalism
   Triumphant scenario divides opinion, partly because it is the hardest
   to envision, and partly because it functions as a template for the
   projection of conflicting political views. Some observers, for example,
   believe that the end of the nation-state is upon us, and that this is a
   good thing, for, in this view, nationalism is the root of racism and
   militarism. The eclipse of the national territorial state is at any
   rate, some argue, an inevitable development given the very nature of an
   increasingly integrated world. We demur. To the extent that a more
   integrated world economically is the best way to raise people out of
   poverty and disease, we applaud it. We also recognize the need for
   unprecedented international cooperation on a range of transnational
   problems. But the state is the only venue discovered so far in which
   democratic principles and processes can play out reliably, and not all
   forms of nationalism have been or need be illiberal. We therefore
   affirm the value of American sovereignty as well as the political and
   cultural diversity ensured by the present state system. Within that
   system the United States must live by and be ready to share its
   political values-but it must remember that those values include
   tolerance for those who hold different views. broader and deeper
   Democratic Peace is, and ought to be, America's aspiration, but Athere
   are obstacles to achieving it. Indeed, despite the likely progress
   ahead on many fronts, the United States may face not only episodic
   problems but also genuine crises. If the United States mismanages its
   current global position, it could generate resentments and jealousies
   that leave us more isolated than isolationist. Major wars involving
   weapons of mass destruction are possible, and the general security
   environment may deteriorate faster than the United States, even with
   allied aid, can redress it. Environmental, economic, and political
   unraveling in much of the world could occur on a scale so large as to
   make current levels of prosperity unsustainable, let alone expandable.
   Certain technologies-biotechnology, for example-may also undermine
   social and political stability among and within advanced countries,
   including the United States. Indeed, all these crises may occur, and
   each could reinforce and deepen the others. The challenge for the
   United States is to seize the new century's many opportunities and
   avoid its many dangers. The problem is that the current structures and
   processes of U.S. national security policymaking are incapable of such
   management. That is because, just below the enormous power and prestige
   of the United States today, is a neglected and, in some cases, a
   decaying institutional base. The U.S. government is not well organized,
   for example, to ensure homeland security. No adequate coordination
   mechanism exists among federal, state, and local government efforts, as
   well as those of dozens of agencies at the federal level. If present
   trends continue in elementary and secondary school science and
   mathematics education, to take another example, the United States may
   lose its lead in many, if not most, major areas of critical
   scientific-technological 7 competence within 25 years. We are also
   losing, and are finding ourselves unable to replace, the most critical
   asset we have: talented and dedicated personnel throughout government.
   Strategic planning is absent in the U.S. government and its budget
   processes are so inflexible that few resources are available for
   preventive policies or for responding to crises, nor can resources be
   reallocated efficiently to reflect changes in policy priorities. The
   economic component of U.S. national security policy is poorly
   integrated with the military and diplomatic components. The State
   Department is demoralized and dysfunctional. The Defense Department
   appears incapable of generating a strategic posture very different from
   that of the Cold War, and its weapons acquisition process is slow,
   inefficient, and burdened by excess regulation. National policy in the
   increasingly critical environment of space is adrift, and the
   intelligence community is only slowly reorienting itself to a world of
   more diffuse and differently shaped threats. The Executive Branch, with
   the aid of the Congress, needs to initiate change in many areas by
   taking bold new steps, and by speeding up positive change where it is
   languishing. he very mention of changing the engrained routines and
   structures of government is Tusually enough to evoke cynicism even in a
   born optimist. But the American case is surprisingly positive,
   especially in relatively recent times. The reorganizations occasioned
   by World War II were vast and innovative, and the 1947 National
   Security Act was bold in advancing and institutionalizing them. Major
   revisions of the 1947 Act were passed subsequently by Congress in 1949,
   1953, and 1958. Major internal Defense Department reforms were
   promulgated as well, one in 1961 and another, the Department of Defense
   Reorganization Act (Goldwater-Nichols) in 1986. The essence of the
   American genius is that we know better than most societies how to
   reinvent ourselves to meet the times. This Commission, we believe, is
   true to that estimable tradition. Despite this relatively good record,
   resistance will arise to changing U.S. national security structures and
   processes, both within agencies of government and in the Congress. What
   is needed, therefore, is for the new administration, together with the
   new Congress, to exert real leadership. Our comprehensive
   recommendations to guide that leadership follow. First, we must prepare
   ourselves better to defend the national homeland. We take this up in
   Section I, Securing the National Homeland. We put this first because it
   addresses the most dangerous and the most novel threat to American
   national security in the years ahead. Second, we must rebuild our
   strengths in the generation and management of science and technology
   and in education. We have made Recapitalizing America's Strengths in
   Science and Education the second section of this report despite the
   fact that science management and education issues are rarely ranked as
   paramount national security priorities. We do so to emphasize their
   crucial and growing importance. Third, we must ensure coherence and
   effectiveness in the institutions of the Executive Branch of
   government. Section III, Institutional Redesign, proposes change
   throughout the national security apparatus. Fourth, we must ensure the
   highest caliber human capital in public service. U.S. national security
   depends on the quality of the people, both civilian and military,
   serving within the ranks of government. If we are unsuccessful in
   meeting the crisis of competence before us, none of the other reforms
   proposed in this report will succeed. Section IV, The Human
   Requirements for National Security, examines government personnel
   issues in detail. 8 Fifth, the Congress is part of the problem before
   us, and therefore must become part of the solution. Not only must the
   Congress support the Executive Branch reforms promulgated here, but it
   must bring its own organization in line with the 21st century. Section
   V, The Role of Congress, examines this critical facet of government
   reform. Each section of this report carries an introduction explaining
   why the subject is important, identifies the major problems requiring
   solution, and then states this Commission's recommendations. All major
   recommendations are boxed and in bold-face type.6 Related but
   subordinate recommendations are italicized and in bold-face type in the
   text. As appropriate throughout the report, we outline what
   Congressional, Presidential, and Executive department actions would be
   required to implement the Commission's recommendations. Also as
   appropriate, we provide general guidance as to the budgetary
   implications of our recommendations but, lest details of such
   consideration confuse and complicate the text, we will provide
   suggested implementation plans for selected areas in a separately
   issued addendum. A last word urges the President to devise an
   implementing mechanism for the recommendations put forth here. Finally,
   we observe that some of our recommendations will save money, while
   others call for more expenditure. We have not tried to "balance the
   books" among our recommendations, nor have we held financial
   implications foremost in mind during our work. Wherever money may be
   saved, we consider it a second-order benefit. Provision of additional
   resources to national security, where necessary, are investments, not
   costs, and a first-order national priority. 6 The recommendations are
   listed together in Appendix 1, pp. 124-129. 9 I. Securing the National
   Homeland ne of this Commission's most important conclusions in its
   Phase I report was that Oattacks against American citizens on American
   soil, possibly causing heavy casualties, are likely over the next
   quarter century.7 This is because both the technical means for such
   attacks, and the array of actors who might use such means, are
   proliferating despite the best efforts of American diplomacy. These
   attacks may involve weapons of mass destruction and weapons of mass
   disruption. As porous as U.S. physical borders are in an age of
   burgeoning trade and travel, its "cyber borders" are even more
   porous-and the critical infrastructure upon which so much of the U.S.
   economy depends can now be targeted by non-state and state actors
   alike. America's present global predominance does not render it immune
   from these dangers. To the contrary, U.S. preeminence makes the
   American homeland more appealing as a target, while America's openness
   and freedoms make it more vulnerable. Notwithstanding a growing
   consensus on the seriousness of the threat to the homeland posed by
   weapons of mass destruction and disruption, the U.S. government has not
   adopted homeland security as a primary national security mission. Its
   structures and strategies are fragmented and inadequate. The President
   must therefore both develop a comprehensive strategy and propose new
   organizational structures to prevent and protect against attacks on the
   homeland, and to respond to such attacks if prevention and protection
   should fail. Any reorganization must be mindful of the scale of the
   scenarios we envision and the enormity of their consequences. We need
   orders-of-magnitude improvements in planning, coordination, and
   exercise. The government must also be prepared to use
   effectively-albeit with all proper safeguards-the extensive resources
   of the Department of Defense. This will necessitate new priorities for
   the U.S. armed forces and particularly, in our view, for the National
   Guard. he United States is today very poorly organized to design and
   implement any Tcomprehensive strategy to protect the homeland. The
   assets and organizations that now exist for homeland security are
   scattered across more than two dozen departments and agencies, and all
   fifty states. The Executive Branch, with the full participation of
   Congress, needs to realign, refine, and rationalize these assets into a
   coherent whole, or even the best strategy will lack an adequate vehicle
   for implementation. This Commission believes that the security of the
   American homeland from the threats of the new century should be the
   primary national security mission of the U.S. government. While the
   Executive Branch must take the lead in dealing with the many policy and
   structural issues involved, Congress is a partner of critical
   importance in this effort. It must find ways to address homeland
   security issues that bridge current gaps in organization, oversight,
   and authority, and that resolve conflicting claims to jurisdiction
   within both the Senate and the House of Representatives and also
   between them. 7 See New World Coming, p. 4, and the Report of the
   National Defense Panel, Transforming Defense: National Security in the
   21st Century (Washington, DC: December 1997), p. 17. 10 Congress is
   crucial, as well, for guaranteeing that homeland security is achieved
   within a framework of law that protects the civil liberties and privacy
   of American citizens. We are confident that the U.S. government can
   enhance national security without compromising established
   Constitutional principles. But in order to guarantee this, we must plan
   ahead. In a major attack involving contagious biological agents, for
   example, citizen cooperation with government authorities will depend on
   public confidence that those authorities can manage the emergency. If
   that confidence is lacking, panic and disorder could lead to insistent
   demands for the temporary suspension of some civil liberties. That is
   why preparing for the worst is essential to protecting individual
   freedoms during a national crisis. Legislative guidance for planning
   among federal agencies and state and local authorities must take
   particular cognizance of the role of the Defense Department. Its
   subordination to civil authority needs to be clearly defined in
   advance. In short, advances in technology have created new dimensions
   to our nation's economic and physical security. While some new threats
   can be met with traditional responses, others cannot. More needs to be
   done in three areas to prevent the territory and infrastructure of the
   United States from becoming easy and tempting targets: in strategy, in
   organizational realignment, and in Executive-Legislative cooperation.
   We take these areas in turn. A. THE STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK homeland
   security strategy to minimize the threat of intimidation and loss of
   life is Aan essential support for an international leadership role for
   the United States. Homeland security is not peripheral to U.S. national
   security strategy but central to it. At this point, national leaders
   have not agreed on a clear strategy for homeland security, a condition
   this Commission finds dangerous and intolerable. We therefore recommend
   the following: ! 1: The President should develop a comprehensive
   strategy to heighten America's ability to prevent and protect against
   all forms of attack on the homeland, and to respond to such attacks if
   prevention and protection fail. In our view, the President should: !
   Give new priority in his overall national security strategy to homeland
   security, and make it a central concern for incoming officials in all
   Executive Branch departments, particularly the intelligence and law
   enforcement communities; ! Calmly prepare the American people for
   prospective threats, and increase their awareness of what federal and
   state governments are doing to prevent attacks and to protect them if
   prevention fails; ! Put in place new government organizations and
   processes, eliminating where possible staff duplication and mission
   overlap; and ! Encourage Congress to establish new mechanisms to
   facilitate closer cooperation between the Executive and Legislative
   Branches of government on this vital issue. 11 We believe that homeland
   security can best be assured through a strategy of layered defense that
   focuses first on prevention, second on protection, and third on
   response. Prevention: Preventing a potential attack comes first. Since
   the occurrence of even one event that causes catastrophic loss of life
   would represent an unacceptable failure of policy, U.S. strategy should
   therefore act as far forward as possible to prevent attacks on the
   homeland. This strategy has at its disposal three essential
   instruments. Most broadly, the first instrument is U.S. diplomacy. U.S.
   foreign policy should strive to shape an international system in which
   just grievances can be addressed without violence. Diplomatic efforts
   to develop friendly and trusting relations with foreign governments and
   their people can significantly multiply America's chances of gaining
   early warning of potential attack and of doing something about
   impending threats. Intelligence-sharing with foreign governments is
   crucial to help identify individuals and groups who might be
   considering attacks on the United States or its allies. Cooperative
   foreign law enforcement agencies can detain, arrest, and prosecute
   terrorists on their own soil. Diplomatic success in resolving overseas
   conflicts that spawn terrorist activities will help in the long run.
   Meanwhile, verifiable arms control and nonproliferation efforts must
   remain a top priority. These policies can help persuade states and
   terrorists to abjure weapons of mass destruction and to prevent the
   export of fissile materials and dangerous dual-use technologies. But
   such measures cannot by themselves prevent proliferation. So other
   measures are needed, including the possibility of punitive measures and
   defenses. The United States should take a lead role in strengthening
   multilateral organizations such as the International Atomic Energy
   Agency. In addition, increased vigilance against international crime
   syndicates is also important because many terrorist organizations gain
   resources and other assets through criminal activity that they then use
   to mount terrorist operations. Dealing with international organized
   crime requires not only better cooperation with other countries, but
   also among agencies of the federal government. While progress has been
   made on this front in recent years, more remains to be done.8 The
   second instrument of homeland security consists of the U.S. diplomatic,
   intelligence, and military presence overseas. Knowing the who, where,
   and how of a potential physical or cyber attack is the key to stopping
   a strike before it can be delivered. Diplomatic, intelligence, and
   military agencies overseas, as well as law enforcement agencies working
   abroad, are America's primary eyes and ears on the ground. But
   increased public-private efforts to enhance security processes within
   the international transportation and logistics networks that bring
   people and goods to America are also of critical and growing
   importance. Vigilant systems of border security and surveillance are a
   third instrument that can prevent those agents of attack who are not
   detected and stopped overseas from actually entering the United States.
   Agencies such as the U.S. Customs Service and U.S. Coast Guard have a
   critical prevention role to play. Terrorists and criminals are finding
   that the difficulty of policing the rising daily volume and velocities
   of people and goods that cross U.S. borders makes it easier for them to
   smuggle weapons and contraband, and to move their operatives into and
   out of the United States. Improving the capacity of border control
   agencies to identify and intercept potential threats without creating
   barriers to efficient trade and travel requires a sub-strategy also
   with three elements. 8 See International Crime Threat Assessment
   (Washington, DC: The White House, December 2000). 12 First is the
   development of new transportation security procedures and practices
   designed to reduce the risk that importers, exporters, freight
   forwarders, and transportation carriers will serve as unwitting
   conduits for criminal or terrorist activities. Second is bolstering the
   intelligence gathering, data management, and information sharing
   capabilities of border control agencies to improve their ability to
   target high-risk goods and people for inspection. Third is
   strengthening the capabilities of border control agencies to arrest
   terrorists or interdict dangerous shipments before they arrive on U.S.
   soil. These three measures, which place a premium on public-private
   partnerships, will pay for themselves in short order. They will allow
   for the more efficient allocation of limited enforcement resources
   along U.S. borders. There will be fewer disruptive inspections at ports
   of entry for legitimate businesses and travelers. They will lead to
   reduced theft and insurance costs, as well. Most important, the
   underlying philosophy of this approach is one that balances prudence,
   on the one hand, with American values of openness and free trade on the
   other. 9 To shield America from the world out of fear of terrorism is,
   in large part, to do the terrorists' work for them. To continue
   business as usual, however, is irresponsible. The same may be said for
   our growing cyber problems. Protecting our nation's critical
   infrastructure depends on greater public awareness and improvements in
   our tools to detect and diagnose intrusions. This will require better
   information sharing among all federal, state, and local governments as
   well as with private sector owners and operators. The federal
   government has these specific tasks: ! To serve as a model for the
   private sector by improving its own security practices; ! To address
   known government security problems on a system-wide basis; ! To
   identify and map network interdependencies so that harmful cascading
   effects among systems can be prevented; ! To sponsor vulnerability
   assessments within both the federal government and the private sector;
   and ! To design and carry out simulations and exercises that test
   information system security across the nation's entire infrastructure.
   Preventing attacks on the American homeland also requires that the
   United States maintain long-range strike capabilities. The United
   States must bolster deterrence by making clear its determination to use
   military force in a preemptive fashion if necessary. Even the most
   hostile state sponsors of terrorism, or terrorists themselves, will
   think tw
