http://www.midatlantic.gsa.gov/marhome/abgsa.htm

                                            [abgsa.1.jpg]
                                [abgsa.2.jpg]

                                [abgsa.3.jpg]

    GSA ‘s mission is to provide expertly managed space, supplies,
   services, and solutions, at the best value, to enable Federal employees
   to accomplish their missions. GSA is about great work
   environments--wherever government works, whether in an office building,
   a warehouse, a national forest, or a government car. In support of this
   mission, GSA provides workspace, security, furniture, equipment,
   supplies, tools, computers, and telephones. GSA also provides travel
   and transportation services, manages the Federal motor vehicle fleet,
   oversees telecommuting centers and Federal child care centers,
   preserves historic buildings, manages a fine arts program, and
   develops, advocates, and evaluates governmentwide policy.

   GSA was established on July 1, 1949 by section 101of the Federal
   Property and Administrative Services Act as a result of a
   recommendation by a Presidential commission chaired by former President
   Herbert Hoover. The commission recommended the consolidation of four
   small agencies into one agency to avoid "senseless duplication, excess
   cost, and confusion in handling supplies . . . and providing space."

   GSA has since housed federal workers and provided products and services
   to support the important work of government. GSA provides these
   products and services by negotiating contracts that account for $40
   billion of goods and services bought annually from the private sector.
   GSA employs about 15,000 people and has an annual budget of nearly $13
   billion.

   GSA Mid-Atlantic Region provides a full range of support and services
   to the Federal family and the general public. Based in Philadelphia,
   the Mid-Atlantic Region encompasses the States of Delaware, Maryland,
   Pennsylvania, Virginia, West Virginia, and southern New Jersey. The
   Region’s Federal Supply Service supports a 13 state area from Maine to
   Virginia, the District of Columbia, as well as Europe, Africa, and the
   Middle East. The Region is also home to the National Furniture Center
   which services customers worldwide. The Mid-Atlantic Region employs a
   dedicated workforce of 1,400 and manages an operating budget of $1.3
   billion.

                         Return to Mid-Atlantic Home
