http://www.library.phila.gov/excited/excited.htm

   [logo.gif]

             We're So Excited About...

   [rule.gif]

   [USEMAP:tool.gif]


   [USEMAP:exctool.gif]

   We’re So Excited About…

   The Free Library of Philadelphia Celebrates Black History Month

   Calendar of Events - Please join us at Black History events at Central
   Library and branches throughout the City.

   Conversations with African American Authors
   February 4 – Farah Jasmine Griffin, author of If You Can’t Be Free, Be
   A Mystery: In Search of Billie Holiday Montgomery Auditorium.
   February 6 – Virginia DeBerry and Donna Grant, will speak on their work
   Far from the Tree Montgomery Auditorium.
   February 11 – Kenneth Shropshire, will discuss his book Basketball
   Jones Montgomery Auditorium.
   February 14 – Raymond Webster, author of African American Scientists
   room 108.
   February 21 – Phyllis Harris, speaks on From the Soul: Stories of Great
   Black Parents room 108.
   February 28 – Michele Collison, presents It’s All Good Hair room 108.
   All events begin at 6:30 p.m. at Central Library and are FREE. A book
   signing will follow each lecture and the books will be available for
   purchase on the evening of the event.

     [main.jpg]

   The Majesty of African Motherhood
   A comprehensive exhibit of mother and child sculptures from Africa is
   on display in the West Gallery. The sculptures, which originate from
   West and Central Africa, are from the private collections of David
   Lawrence and Herman Bigham. Each piece depicts a traditional example of
   the views of motherhood, femininity, nurturing and nourishing.
   Lawrence, a New York native, is an accomplished artist in his own right
   who has committed himself to enhancing awareness of the impact of
   African aesthetics on western art and design.
   Bigham, a life long Philadelphian, travels frequently to Africa in
   search of new art. He then uses his collection to produce educational
   and cultural workshops to build awareness of the history, traditions
   and sensibilities of Africa through the art of the continent.

   The exhiblt will be on display through April 30, 2002

     [_tempindex_r1_c1.gif]

   Julian Francis Abele Student Design Competition
   Julian Francis Abele Student Design Competition
   Julian Francis Abele, the African American architect who designed
   Central Library did not receive the recognition he deserved 75 years
   ago. Now, his vision inspires young people with dreams of entering the
   world of architecture and design.
   The Free Library, in partnership with the Philadelphia Chapter of the
   National Organization of Minority Architects (PhilaNOMA), the American
   Institute of Architects-Philadelphia Chapter, and p_FAD, is sponsoring
   this competition to foster the creative spirit and commemorate the 75th
   Anniversary of Abele’s wonderful creation, Central Library.
   High school students will set about to build the “Library of the
   Future,” thus building dreams not only of design, but also of powerful
   community resources. All students will be mentored by professional
   architects. Winners will be announced at the Gala 75th Anniversary
   Celebration the weekend of May 31st.
   The competition is presented by Hillier Architects and the University
   of Pennsylvania Department of Architecture, with additional support
   from Ballinger, Cope Linder Architects and Philip E. Franks and
   Associates, Architects.
   For more information on the competition visit the PhilaNOMA web site at
   www.philanoma.org

     [frankln.jpg]

   Black History Month Exhibit at the Franklin Institute
   Highlighting significant contributions by African Americans to the
   fields of architecture, engineering, transportation, meteorology,
   bioscience, electricity, and math.


   To the Free Library of Philadelphia Main Page Contact us Disclaimer -
     what we'd like you to know about using these resources Staff Only

         Content managed by: Communications and Marketing Department
                                215.686.5424
