http://www.iceboom.nypa.gov/icepurp.htm

   [nypahead.gif]

   [back.gif]

   About the Ice Boom:

   Introduction

   Purpose

   Description

   Location

   History

   Impacts

   Current Images

   Current time-lapse videos

   Listing of Recent Images
   Ice Boom - Purpose

   In Western New York, keeping the electricity flowing means keeping the
   Niagara River running. This can be challenging during the winter
   months, when sub-zero temperatures produce an ice cover on Lake Erie
   that can be pushed around by winds to produce ice accumulations up to
   12 feet thick in places. Winter winds, which gust up to 80 miles per
   hour, can push chunks of ice into the upper Niagara River, where they
   flow downstream and tend to jam up and obstruct water intakes for the
   region’s two large hydroelectric projects.

   To maintain river flows, the Power Authority and Ontario Power
   Generation, Inc. conduct a carefully coordinated ice management
   operation that includes regular icebreaker patrols, continual
   surveillance of river conditions and the ever-constant assistance of
   the Lake Erie-Niagara River Ice Boom.

   The ice boom was designed to restrict, but not necessarily eliminate,
   the release of lake ice into the Niagara River. Its floating steel
   pontoons are linked together by steel cables that are anchored to the
   lakebed. In early winter, a stable ice cover approximately one- to
   two-feet thick forms in front of the ice boom, near where Lake Erie
   empties into the upper Niagara River. This allows water to keep flowing
   underneath the ice toward Niagara Falls and the hydro plant intakes.

   Sustained winds in excess of 30 miles per hour can push some lake ice
   over the boom, which submerges at times of high ice force. Although the
   span does release some ice into the river, it has substantially reduced
   power generation losses compared with conditions before the ice boom.

   When ice floes do make it into the river, icebreakers and specially
   equipped tug boats and careful operation of the power plants keep the
   floating masses moving away from the intakes and over the Falls. During
   the stormiest winters, ice management teams operate around the clock to
   keep the river – and the electricity flowing.


   | About NYPA | News | Our Locations | Come Visit Us | Home |
