http://www.sustainable.doe.gov/transprt/trintro.shtml


                          EREN Department of Energy
   Text Only | Español
   Center of Excellence for Sustainable Development
   Welcome Contact Us Site Index Newsletter


   Sustainable Transportation
   Introduction
   Key Principles
   Public Involvement
   Role of Information
   Tools
   Success Stories
   Codes / Ordinances
   Articles / Publications
   Educational Materials
   Other Resources
   Sustainable Transportation Introduction


                            Also visit U.S. DOE's Office of
                               Transportation Technologies. [ottlogo3.gif]

   Many communities have reached a crossroads. If they build a new
   highway, traffic will stop backing up--at least that’s the initial
   rationale. Citizens will stop calling to complain. Everyone presumably
   will be satisfied--for a while. This "solution," however, is
   short-lived.

   When pavement is laid, more vehicles come. With more vehicles, comes
   more smog. Autos are a major contributor to global warming. Their
   pollution also causes severe health problems for many. Traffic
   congestion, already costing us an estimated $168 billion annually in
   lost productivity, is expected to triple in coming years, wasting more
   productivity and fuel and worsening our air quality.

   Our auto habits have caused increasing dependency on oil imports, much
   of it coming from unstable parts of the world. In 1970, 23 percent of
   America’s petroleum was imported. Today, we import more than 54 percent
   of our petroleum needs, and this number is estimated to reach more than
   60 percent by 2010. The cost of oil imports to U.S. consumers totals
   some $50 billion annually. And in addition to the cost of oil imports,
   the cost of productivity loss, and the cost of congestion, we must add
   other social costs of transportation, such as traffic deaths and
   injuries, and pollution

   Some communities have found a promising new course for handling growth
   and their transportation problems. Planners refer to these ideas as
   "livable" or "sustainable" communities. By whatever name, these plans
   focus on people, rather than on cars.


   "Creating sustainable transport systems that meet people’s needs
   equitably and foster a healthy environment requires putting the
   automobile back into its useful place as a servant. With a shift in
   priorities, cars can be part of a broad, balanced system in which
   public transport, cycling, and walking are all viable options."
   --Marcia Lowe, Worldwatch Paper 98, Alternatives to the Automobile:
   Transport for Livable Cities, 1990, Worldwatch Institute

   Back to Top



                            HOME | EREN | SEARCH
