http://www.epa.gov/implement/

                      Clean Water Action Plan Implementation

      Since the EPA Web site was shut down, Thursday, February 17, the Agency
      has been improving security measures and is steadily restoring the
      public's access to information on the EPA Web site as quickly and
      securely as possible. However due to these efforts, the CWAP
      implementation databases (action item tracking, contacts, and
      documents) are temporarily not available and therefore cannot be
      accessed.

      The Clean Water Action Plan (CWAP) Implementation Website is a
      restricted access, online tool for CWAP Federal agencies at the
      national, regional, and field levels to track the status of the 111 key
      actions in the CWAP. This website is designed to facilitate
      coordination and communication among the CWAP Federal partners. To
      access the databases below, you will need a user ID and password.

      If you are not a CWAP Federal partner and would like to learn more
      about the CWAP and progress in implementation, please visit the Clean
      Water Action Plan Website.

      CWAP Implementation Databases

     To gain read-only access to the databases, you only need to click on
   the database you wish to enter and, when prompted, enter the shared
   user name and password.

     To have read and write access to the databases, you must use your
   unique user name and password you established during registration. Only
   registered users can add information to the database. If you would like
   to gain write access, you must be registered with the system. Click
   here to register.

   After you have registered, your request for write access will be
   reviewed and you will receive an e-mail in response.

     If you have forgotten your unique user name or password, please use
   the CWAP Database Help Form.

   Action Item Tracking Database
   Contacts Database
   Document Database

   CWAP Steering Committee and Action Teams - Background and Contact Information

   CWAP Listserver: Questions and Answers

                           CWAP Implementation homepage



      EPA HOMEPAGE/ OFFICE OF WATER/ USDA HOME/ COMMENTS/ SEARCH

      http://www.epa.gov/implement/
      Revised January 21, 2000
