http://www.phila.gov/summary/inspector/index.html

   [clearpixel.gif]
                    City of Philadelphia Banner

   [clearpixel.gif] Philadelphia at Your Service Home Page Philadelphia
   Residents Page Philadelphia Business Page Philadelphia Visitors Page

[clearpixel.gif]

                                     Copyright© City of Philadelphia 2001  Terms of Use


   [clearpixel.gif]

   Search Phila.gov

   Municipal Phone Directory

   City Council

   Mayor´s Office

   Business Action Team
   Community Services
   Information Services
   Mayor´s Action Center
   Neighborhood Transformation
   People with Disabilities
   Literacy
   Commission on Aging
   Transportation
   Philadelphia Reads

   City Services

   Police
   Fire
   Streets
   Licenses and Inspections
   Inspector General
   Water
   Public Health
   Human Services
   Temporary Shelter
   Records
   Recreation

   Administration

   Anti-Graffiti Program
   Board of Pensions
   City Controller
   Commerce
   Capital Program Office
   Finance Department
   Fleet Management
   Law Department
   Managing Director
   Minority Business
   Municipal Energy Office
   Personnel
   Procurement
   Public Property
   Revenue
   Risk Management
   Treasurer´s Office
   Water Revenue

   Agencies

   Community Development
   Commercial Development
   Housing Development
   Industrial Development
   Philadelphia Airport

   Authorities

   Housing Authority
   Parking Authority
   Redevelopment Authority

   Boards

   Board of Pensions
   Revision of Taxes
   Tax Review Board
   Free Library
   School District

   Commissions

   City Commissioners
   Planning Commission
   Civil Service
   Human Relations
   Gas Commission
   Historical Commission
   Fair Housing
   Fairmount Park
   The Mayor´s Telecommunications Policy Advisory Commission
   Sinking Fund

   Justice / Legal

   Clerk of Quarter Sessions
   District Attorney´s Office
   Orphans Court
   Philadelphia Courts
   Prisons
   Public Defender
   Register of Wills
   Sheriff
   Superior Court
   Supreme Court

   City Archives - PHILS

   Please forward technical problems or comments to: webmaster@phila.gov
[clearpixel.gif]                                              [clearpixel.gif]
                 Philadelphia Office of the Inspector General

                 Mission
                 The Office of the Inspector General (OIG) was established May 22, 1984,
   by Executive Order 10-84. The OIG is operationally independent and is
   the designated, centralized office with authority to investigate
   criminal and/or integrity-related complaints of fraud, corruption, and
   abuse in all departments, quasi-governmental agencies under the Mayor's
   jurisdiction, and any contractors/consultants receiving City funds. The
   OIG also provides investigative expertise to any agency/authority
   requesting assistance.

   The OIG's mission is to enhance the public confidence in City
   government by investigating complaints of fraud, corruption, and abuse;
   and by recommending programs/policies which educate and raise the
   awareness of all City officials/employees.

   The OIG is assisted by the Internal Investigations Unit of the
   Philadelphia Police Department, which provides the resources for
   criminal investigations, and through the resources of the City's
   Integrity Officer Program.

   The OIG has the power to issue subpoenas, to examine all City
   documents, contracts, and monetary expenditures made from the City
   Treasury, and to require testimony of City employees.

   An Integrity Officer is a senior-level employee appointed by the
   director of, and serving within, a City department or
   quasi-governmental agency under the Mayor's jurisdiction. The IO
   investigates departmental integrity complaints which range from a minor
   to medium level of seriousness, acts as a liaison between the
   department and the OIG, conducts research, and provides information to
   the OIG.

   The OIG also cooperates with federal and state law enforcement agencies
   along with federal, state and local inspector general offices.

   Frequently Asked Questions
   1. What is the function of the OIG?
   The OIG investigates complaints of fraud, corruption, and abuse
   occurring within City departments under the dominion of the Mayor.
   2. To whom is the OIG accountable?
   The OIG is directly answerable to the Mayor.
   3. What departments within City government are not subject to the OIG's
   jurisdiction?
   The OIG has authority over all departments/agencies, except those
   headed by an independently elected official.
   4. How are complaints registered?
   Complaints are received in the OIG by letter, telephone call, or
   personal visit.
   5. Who is the source of the complaint?
   The OIG receives complaints from private citizens, City employees,
   department heads, and City officials, as well as Federal and State law
   enforcement agencies. In addition, the OIG initiates its own
   investigations based on institutionalized integrity problems.
   6. Does the OIG unilaterally take punitive administrative action?
   No, the OIG refers all findings, along with recommendations for action,
   back to the originating department's Integrity Officer for a
   determination.
   7. Does the OIG prosecute crime?
   No, the OIG refers all criminal complaints to the District Attorney's
   Office or appropriate United States Attorney's Office for prosecution.
   8. To what association memberships does the OIG belong?
   The OIG is a charter member of the Association of Inspectors General, a
   member of the local/state/federal Inspector General Council, and the
   Ethics Officer Association.

   Contact Information
       Benjamin J. Redmond, Inspector General
       (215) 686-1772
       Stanley C.P. Olkowski III; Deputy Inspector General
       (215) 686-1771; Fax: (215) 686-1757
       E-mail: OIG@phila.gov
