http://www.conservation.ca.gov/dmg/eq-index.htm


  DOC Logo

          News & Information Programs & Services Search Kids Only DOC Home Page
          Beverage Container Recycling Link Earthquakes & Landslides Link
          Farmland & Open Space Resources Link Minerals & Mining Link Oil,Gas, &
          Geothermal Resources Link
          Interesting Facts

   [blank.gif]

                          Earthquakes, Landslides,
                          & Other Geologic Hazards

   Earthquakes and landslides cost Californians hundreds of millions of
   dollars each year, but there are ways to reduce future losses from
   these and other hazards. Within the Department of Conservation, the
   Division of Mines and Geology (DMG) plays an important role in this
   loss-reduction effort.

   DOC develops statewide earthquake risk maps using information about
   California’s regional geology and earthquake history. Geologists and
   seismologists focus on particularly hazardous areas to map and areas
   where earthquake faults, shaking, liquefaction and landslides are most
   likely to occur. The State Mining and Geology Board provides policy
   advice for these hazard-mapping programs. As information becomes
   available or the need arises, geologists prepare maps of other hazards
   (such as naturally occurring radon gas and asbestos).

   To record how the ground and structures shake during earthquakes, the
   California Strong-Motion Instrumentation Program (CSMIP) installs and
   maintains instruments in and outside buildings, on dams and bridges,
   and in natural sites. The Seismic Safety Commission helps select the
   buildings and sites to be instrumented. Seismologists and engineers
   analyze the data, compare it with information about how the buildings
   and ground behaved when shaken, and use the information to improve
   building codes. In turn, the improved codes are used by engineers and
   building officials to design safer homes, schools, dams, bridges, and
   commercial buildings.

   The many maps and reports are provided to cities, counties, and state
   agencies for use in their land-use planning and permitting processes.
   Consultants and the public may purchase these products through DMG’s
   Publications and Information Offices. Some maps, data, and reports are
   made available via the world-wide web and DMG’s computerized bulletin
   board. The bi-monthly CALIFORNIA GEOLOGY magazine presents summaries of
   important reports, announcements of newly released hazard maps, and
   related articles of interest to the general public.

   DOC also is a source of technical expertise to other state agencies
   that need unbiased, independent advice. For example, DOC’s
   seismologists advise the California Department of Insurance on the
   suitability of computerized models for forecasting losses from future
   damaging earthquakes. DOC engineering geologists help the Department of
   Forestry and Fire Protection evaluate the likelihood of impacts from
   landslides and erosion in areas where logging is proposed. Also, DOC’s
   geologists and seismologists perform independent technical reviews of
   geologic reports for proposed public schools, hospitals, and emergency
   operations facilities helping to ensure their safety and that they will
   remain operational following future disasters.

             Copyright © California Department of Conservation,
          California Geological Survey, 2002. All rights reserved.
             The Department of Conservation makes no warranties
           as to the suitability of this product for any purpose.


            Department of Conservation
            Home Page                 Division of Mines & Geology
                                      Home Page
