http://healthdisparities.nih.gov/faqs.html


   [shim.gif] skip links
   AHD logo

   Link to welcome
   Link to What Are Health Disparities
   Link to Working Group on Health Disparities
   Link to Events
   Link to Resource Links
   Link to Home page
   Link to the previous page


   Link to NIH site
   ADDRESSING HEALTH DISPARITIES: The NIH Program

   Frequently Asked Questions

   When will the Trans-NIH Strategic Plan for Research on Health
                     Disparities be finished?

     The draft plan was forwarded to NIH Acting Director Dr. Ruth
     Kirschstein and NIH Associate Director for Research on Minority
     Health Dr. John Ruffin on June 12, 2000. Drafts of strategic plans
     for individual institutes were submitted on April 3, 2000, to the
     cochairs of the trans-NIH working group to develop the overall plan.
     The plan was discussed as part of the priority setting activities at
     the NIH Budget Retreat on June 15-16, 2000, and will be incorporated
     in the NIH budget documents for fiscal year 2002. The plan will also
     be made available on the NIH web site and prepared in hard copy for
     distribution to the public.

                What is the definition of health disparities?

        What populations have been identified for study in the health
                        disparities research agenda?

     Health disparities are differences in the incidence, prevalence,
     mortality and burden of disease and other adverse health conditions
     that exist among specific population groups in the United States.

     Which populations have been targeted under the NIH definition of
     health disparities?

     Initially, NIH will focus on racial/ethnic minority populations
     (African Americans, Asians, Pacific Islanders, Hispanics and
     Latinos, Native Americans, and Native Alaskans). Research on health
     disparities related to socioeconomic status is also included.

      Why is NIH only now addressing health disparities that have been
                        acknowledged for a long time?

     NIH has always conducted research on minority health. In fact, the
     Office of Research on Minority Health was established at NIH in
     1990, when Dr. John Ruffin was appointed by then-Department of
     Health and Human Services Secretary Dr. Louis Sullivan to serve as
     NIH Associate Director of Research on Minority Health.

     The NIH Program of Action represents an enhanced and fast-tracked
     effort to reduce or eliminate health gaps. The program is a response
     to a department-wide initiative by the Secretary of the Depart ment
     of Health and Human Services to close health gaps in six designated
     health areas by 2010. NIH decided to go beyond the six areas
     identified in the Secretary’s Initiative, and to explore ways to
     eliminate or reduce disparities in every research and disease area
     studied by each NIH institute or center.

     "NIH has always done research on minority health, but the
     President’s Initiative on Race sparked an increase in focus,"
     remarked NIH acting deputy director Dr. Yvonne Maddox, co-chair of
     the NIH Working Group to develop a Strategic Research Agenda. "
     Hopefully, with this heightened level of awareness and with
     additional funding, we can do more, thus reducing much of the health
     disparities."

   What happened to the first Working Group on Health Disparities that was
                      established by Dr. Harold Varmus?

     The first Working Group on Health Disparities completed its assigned
     task and submitted its report in December 1999. That report
     established the definition of health disparities and offered a
     number of substantive recommendations for future actions. When Dr.
     Ruth Kirschstein became NIH Acting Director in January 2000, she
     reconstituted the Working Group, elevating membership to include
     every director of an NIH institute or center. NIH Acting Deputy
     Director Dr. Yvonne Maddox and NIAID Director Dr. Anthony Fauci were
     appointed to co-chair the newly recharged group.

              How was the Strategic Research Agenda developed?

     The Strategic Research Agenda to Address Health Disparities is based
     on individual plans to reduce health disparities developed by each
     NIH institute and center. These plans were used to determine
     priorities and emphasis areas of the total NIH strategy.

          Is the Strategic Research Agenda available to the public?

     Currently the document is in its earliest draft stages. Soon, the
     Agenda will be available on this web site.


   Top
