http://exportit.ita.doc.gov/ocbe/ocbehome.nsf/e7445254234489d885256547004dddd5/f8db7f2f2dd0c344852568db0070155e/$FILE/ExportITLatin%20America.pdf

   INTERNET, E-COMMERCE, AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS MARKET OPPORTUNITIES FOR
   U.S. SMALL- AND MEDIUM- SIZED BUSINESSES EXPORTIT LATIN AMERICA
   HIGHLIGHTING ARGENTINA AND BRAZIL U.S. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
   International Trade Administration June 2000 INTERNET, E-COMMERCE, AND
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS MARKET OPPORTUNITIES FOR U.S. SMALL- AND MEDIUM-
   SIZED BUSINESSES EXPORTIT LATIN AMERICA HIGHLIGHTING ARGENTINA AND
   BRAZIL U.S. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE International Trade Administration
   Trade Development Technology and Aerospace Industries Office of
   Computers and Business Equipment / Office of Telecommunications June
   2000 This report was prepared by Danielle Kriz, International Trade
   Specialist, Office of Computers and Business Equipment, and Elizabeth
   Farrand, International Trade Specialist, Office of Telecommunications;
   Technology and Aerospace Industries, Trade Development, International
   Trade Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, Washington, D.C.
   Research and production assistance was provided by student interns
   George Wolf and Tim Wickham. Valuable comments were received from U.S.
   Department of Commerce colleagues in Washington, D.C., Argentina, and
   Brazil. Information on the Office of Computers and Business Equipment
   can be found at http://exportIT.ita.doc.gov. Information on the Office
   of Telecommunications can be found at http://telecom.ita.doc.gov.
   Office of Computers and Business Equipment/ Office of
   Telecommunications, USDOC, June 2000 TABLE OF CONTENTS Foreword 1
   Executive Summary 2 Chapter 1: Introduction 4 Chapter 2: Overview of
   the Latin American IT & Telecommunications Markets 8 Chapter 3:
   Argentina 20 Chapter 4: Brazil 40 Chapter 5: Market Opportunities and
   Market Entry Strategies 62 Chapter 6: The Role of the U.S. Department
   of Commerce 73 Appendix Useful Contacts Argentina
   .......................................................................
   .................... 83 Brazil
   .......................................................................
   .......................... 86 United States
   .......................................................................
   .............. 91 Relevant American Chambers of Commerce Abroad
   .............................. 95 Selected Major IT- and
   Telecommunications-Related Latin American Trade Events
   ....................................................... 96 Further
   Information on Trade Agreements
   .............................................. 99 References
   .......................................................................
   .............................. 100 List of Contributors
   .......................................................................
   .............. 103 Acknowledgment
   .......................................................................
   ................... 108 Office of Computers and Business Equipment/
   Office of Telecommunications, USDOC, June 2000 FOREWORD This report
   describes and analyzes the trends, key issues, and events in
   telecommunications, Internet and e-commerce adoption in Latin America,
   highlighting Argentina and Brazil, to create a framework from which
   U.S. small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) can make educated
   business decisions about entering these markets. The report analyzes
   the status of telecommunications liberalization, competition in
   telecommunications services, and the deployment of new
   telecommunications technologies, and how these changes are affecting
   the adoption of the Internet and e-commerce. It also analyzes economic,
   cultural, historical, and political factors influencing the adoption of
   information, Internet and e-commerce technologies. The report
   highlights information and market opportunities relevant to U.S. SMEs
   in the information technology (IT) and telecommunications industries.
   Suggested market entry strategies for smaller firms, U.S. Department of
   Commerce and other resources to assist U.S. firms in market entry
   endeavors, and contacts in the United States and Latin America are
   provided. The report is based on market research and analysis
   undertaken in Latin America in April 2000 by international trade
   specialists from the U.S. Department of Commerce International Trade
   Administration's Trade Development division: Danielle Kriz with the
   Office of Computers and Business Equipment and Elizabeth Farrand with
   the Office of Telecommunications. They interviewed software, Internet,
   and telecommunications equipment and services producers, trade
   associations, industry analysts, and government officials in Buenos
   Aires, Argentina; and São Paulo, Brasilia, and Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
   The work was actively supported by the International Trade
   Administration's U.S. and Foreign Commercial Service (US&FCS) market
   specialists in the two countries. Information gathered from on-site
   interviews is supplemented with data from market research firms and an
   extensive review of available literature. This effort was carried out
   as part of the U.S. Department of Commerce Market Development
   Cooperator Program (MDCP), under grants awarded to the Virginia
   Economic Development Partnership (VEDP), the New Jersey Institute of
   Technology (NJIT), and North Carolina's Kenan Institute. The MDCP is a
   competitive matching grants program that builds public/private
   partnerships by providing federal assistance to nonprofit export
   multipliers such as states, trade associations, and chambers of
   commerce that are particularly effective in reaching SMEs. These awards
   help the start-up costs of export marketing ventures, with the
   Department of Commerce playing an enabling role. These MDCP awards
   assist the VEDP, the NJIT, and the Kenan Institute in their efforts to
   help Northern Virginia, New Jersey, and North Carolina IT and
   telecommunications SMEs compete internationally. 1 Office of Computers
   and Business Equipment/ Office of Telecommunications, USDOC, June 2000
   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Although the Latin American market for
   telecommunications and IT products and services, including Internet and
   electronic commerce (e-commerce) technologies, is less developed than
   some other regions, it is growing rapidly. Despite some challenges, the
   opportunities for U.S. firms are broad and varied. Argentina and Brazil
   offer U.S.-based telecommunications and IT small- and medium- sized
   enterprises (SMEs) excellent market opportunities. After experiencing a
   financial crisis and economic recession late in 1998 and throughout
   much of 1999, the Latin American economies have begun to recover.
   Positive economic growth is projected for 2000. Latin American firms
   and governments are increasing their IT investments, and consumers are
   beginning to have greater disposable income to spend on more advanced
   telecommunications technologies, Internet access, and e-commerce.
   Increased competition in telecommunications services in many countries
   is driving investment in leading-edge telecommunications technologies,
   lowering telecommunications costs for consumers, and facilitating more
   Internet and e-commerce use. This is largely due to recent or pending
   privatization and liberalization of telecommunications services
   markets. Investment in telecommunications infrastructure and related
   software has exploded. The wireless telecommunications segment is
   growing strongly, as countries look to more advanced wireless
   technologies to increase teledensity rapidly. There is growing
   recognition in Latin America of the importance of IT, particularly the
   Internet and e-commerce, to improve productivity and international
   competitiveness. Governments in some countries, including Argentina and
   Brazil, are developing or implementing programs to help firms, schools,
   government agencies, and other organizations increase their IT
   investments. Many firms are eager to learn about the benefits that
   e-commerce can bring them and to purchase the technologies and services
   necessary for an on-line presence. Relatively common use of the
   Internet in Latin America began only about one year ago and remains
   extremely low compared to the United States. Nonetheless, Latin America
   is the fastest growing Internet market in the world. Brazil has been
   the region's Internet "early adopter", although other Latin American
   countries, including Argentina, are catching up quickly. However,
   faster Internet adoption in the region is hindered by various factors,
   including low teledensity rates, lack of broadband technologies, high
   PC prices, and local telephone charges. Many industry participants and
   observers eagerly anticipate the wide rollout of Wireless Application
   Protocol (WAP)-enabled handheld devices, and believe this technology
   will become a popular means of Internet access there. Brazil, Mexico,
   and Argentina could provide the greatest opportunities for e-commerce
   in Latin America, given their relatively large markets. Despite recent
   media hype, business-to-consumer (B2C) e-commerce is most markedly
   occurring only in Brazil. Hindrances to widespread B2C use are
   countries' low Internet penetration rates, cultural factors that keep
   people from purchasing on- 2 Office of Computers and Business
   Equipment/ Office of Telecommunications, USDOC, June 2000 line,
   underdeveloped delivery systems, low credit card use, and low
   disposable income. B2C will continue to grow, but will take longer to
   gain a foothold than in the United States. Change will occur more
   rapidly in business-to-business (B2B) e-commerce, for which the region
   is better suited. In fact, although B2B e-commerce is still in its
   infancy in Latin America, its uptake is rapid. Internet start-ups are
   emerging in Latin America, particularly in Argentina and Brazil.
   However, Latin American Internet start-ups are hindered by a lack of
   access to funding, to technologies necessary to execute ideas, and to
   trained and knowledgeable workers versed in the new Internet
   technologies. As a result, many Latin American Internet start-ups seek
   U.S. partners. Greater competition in Argentina's and Brazil's
   telecommunications sectors and demand for new related technologies
   means huge market opportunities in these telecommunications equipment
   and services markets. Wireless technologies are particularly popular,
   especially those which support high-speed interactive data services in
   addition to voice. There is a large and growing market for U.S.
   Internet and electronic commerce technologies and services in both
   countries as well. Low PC penetration and teledensity rates, however,
   indicate that Internet access via other means will likely be common,
   implying a demand for mobile data services, cable television, wireless
   local loop (WLL), local multipoint distribution services (LMDS),
   multichannel multipoint distribution services (MMDS), and other
   Internet access technologies. As more and more organizations implement
   Internet and e-commerce strategies, there is a need for web site
   designers, and also for systems integrators to install, program, and
   connect servers to legacy infrastructures and to integrate web sites
   and back offices. Despite the opportunities, the Latin American market
   poses many challenges to U.S. firms. The region has low average annual
   wages, an unequal distribution of income, and an uneven IT
   infrastructure. As economies just begin to recover from the financial
   crisis and economic recession, organizations as well as consumers have
   tight budgets to spend on new technologies. Market intricacies and
   differences in Internet and e-commerce adoption trends mean that some
   U.S. technologies may not succeed or might need to be modified
   accordingly. Less expensive or less cutting-edge technologies may also
   be appropriate. Market entry strategies must also be adapted to the
   local markets and may differ depending on which country is first
   targeted, due to business and cultural differences. Industry experts
   interviewed in Argentina and Brazil stress that for smaller U.S. firms
   who want to do business in these countries, some form of local
   representation is essential. Options include setting up a local office;
   partnering with a large, established IT or telecommunications firm,
   systems integrator, or consultant already active locally; partnering
   with a like-minded Latin American IT SME with complementary skills and
   technologies; or using agents or distributors. Regardless of market
   entry strategy, a variety of organizations, both public and private,
   are eager to help U.S. IT and telecommunications SMEs find partners or
   representatives in Latin America. 3 Office of Computers and Business
   Equipment/ Office of Telecommunications, USDOC, June 2000 CHAPTER 1:
   INTRODUCTION When advancing into foreign markets, many lags behind some
   other regions in IT adoption U.S. information technology (IT)1 and and
   use, particularly in use of the Internet and e- telecommunications
   companies often do not commerce, but it is the fastest growing Internet
   give strong initial consideration to Latin market in the world.
   Governments in many America. While the Latin American market for Latin
   American countries are moving forward information technology products
   and services is with telecommunications deregulation and are less
   developed than some other regions, it offers liberalizing trade
   policies and encouraging many business opportunities for U.S.-based
   greater foreign investment. Countries such as small- and medium-sized
   enterprises (SMEs)2, Argentina and Brazil, which for many years whose
   leading-edge products and services are experienced hyperinflation, have
   made highly regarded and sought after there. aggressive and successful
   efforts to stabilize their currencies and economies. Although
   experiencing a financial crisis and economic recession late in 1998 and
   throughout Many Latin American countries are party to much of 1999, the
   Latin American economies trade agreements that ease market entry for
   U.S. have begun to recover, and positive growth is IT and
   telecommunications firms, such as the projected for 2000. Latin
   American firms and World Trade Organization (WTO)'s Agreement
   governments are increasing their IT on Basic Telecommunications
   Services, which investments, and consumers are beginning to aims to
   allow foreign telecommunications have greater disposable income to
   spend on service providers to compete freely and fairly in more
   advanced telecommunications signatories' markets. Under the North
   technologies, Internet access, and e-commerce. American Free Trade
   Agreement (NAFTA), Mexico, the region's second-largest market, The
   Latin American market for allows duty-free access for U.S. exports. In
   telecommunications and IT products and addition, the Free Trade Area of
   the Americas services, including Internet and e-commerce (FTAA)
   process, launched in 1994 at the first technologies, is growing
   rapidly. Latin America Summit of the Americas, has already produced
   some results. Negotiators have agreed upon business facilitation items,
   including customs and transparency measures to reduce 1In this report,
   the terms "information technologies" and "IT" will refer to computer
   hardware and software, commercial transaction costs, which are to be
   including Internet and electronic commerce applications. implemented
   this year. A second tranche of business facilitation items is currently
   being 2For comparison purposes, it is important to note that
   definitions of "large", "medium", and "small" companies discussed,
   which will make it easier for in Latin America differ from the typical
   usage of these companies to conduct business in the Western terms in
   the United States. A "large" firm in Latin Hemisphere.3 In 1999, the
   member states of America would be similar in size or revenues to a
   "medium"-sized U.S. firm. "Small" firms in Latin America, referred to
   as "PYMEs" (for pequena y media empresas), are those with annual sales
   of less than $100 3In December 1994, at the first Summit of the
   million. Americas, President Clinton and 33 other democratically 4
   Office of Computers and Business Equipment/ Office of
   Telecommunications, USDOC, June 2000 the Organization of American
   States' Inter- Many firms are eager to learn about the benefits
   American Telecommunications Commission that e-commerce can bring them
   and to (CITEL) concluded negotiation of a Mutual purchase the
   technologies and services Recognition Agreement (MRA) for conformity
   necessary for an on-line presence. assessment of telecommunications
   equipment in the Americas. Negotiations regarding Nonetheless, the
   Latin American market poses implementation dates are ongoing. many
   challenges to U.S. firms, and critical issues limit the speed and
   breadth of the Telecommunications sector privatization and market's
   growth. A main factor is the unequal liberalization have become
   well-established distribution of income. According to the trends in the
   region. Investment in Organization of American States, 39 percent of
   telecommunications infrastructure and related Latin America's
   population lives below the software have exploded. Both established
   poverty line. In fact, in some countries, 10 operators and newly
   licensed percent of the population controls up to 50 telecommunications
   service providers are percent of the national income. Average full
   expanding their geographic coverage and range unemployment is
   approximately 16 percent and of service offerings to meet the
   requirements of the average annual per capita gross domestic their
   licenses or privatization agreements. product (GDP) is $4,454.4 There
   is a broad demand for telecommunications hardware and related As with
   income distribution, the IT software products that should help
   operators infrastructure is unevenly distributed. Overall, achieve
   these requirements and to strengthen Latin America has a low
   teledensity rate  only their market position in anticipation of greater
   12 of every 100 Latin Americans have phone competition in the sector.
   lines, as compared to 66 of every 100 residents of the United States.
   IT and There also is growing recognition of the telecommunications
   infrastructures, between importance of IT, particularly the Internet
   and e- countries as well as between regions within a commerce, to
   improve productivity and country, vary from nonexistent to rudimentary
   international competitiveness. Governments in to adequate to relatively
   well-advanced in some some countries, including Argentina and Brazil,
   major cities. Latin America has no major have been pro-active in their
   view that adoption Internet backbone, no major interconnection of the
   Internet and e-commerce is important for points, and few Internet
   access points. The low economic growth, and are developing or average
   annual income renders PCs and some implementing programs to help firms,
   schools, other advanced communications technologies government
   agencies, and other organizations beyond the reach of much of Latin
   America's increase their IT investments accordingly. population. As a
   result, IT spending per capita is much lower than in the United States,
   and the use of leading-edge technologies and applications, namely the
   Internet and elected leaders from the Western Hemisphere committed to
   the Free Trade Area of the Americas (FTAA). Actual negotiations to
   create the FTAA were initiated by President Clinton and other leaders
   in Santiago, Chile, in 4 All financial and economic figures in this
   report are in April 1998 and are still underway. U.S. dollars unless
   otherwise noted. 5 Office of Computers and Business Equipment/ Office
   of Telecommunications, USDOC, June 2000 e-commerce, is most likely to
   grow among a suppliers. Certification and homologation5 relative elite
   market segment that may quickly procedures can be time consuming and
   become saturated. The average Internet user in complicated, resulting
   in considerable delays Latin America is 29 years old, employed, and for
   products' arrival to the marketplace and has a credit card  which is
   not representative of increased costs for imported products. In the
   average Latin American resident. addition, many Latin American
   countries have complicated rules on foreign investment and IT Spe IT
   Spe IT Spe IT Spennnding Pe ding Pe nding Pe ding Per Capita, 1997 r
   Capita, 1997 r Capita, 1997 r Capita, 1997 partnering. Country IT
   Spending Per Many Latin American countries impose Capita ($) relatively
   high import duties on IT and United States 1,197.9 telecommunications
   products, in strong contrast to the elimination of tariffs on IT and
   Argentina 68.7 telecommunications products in many other Chile 65.6
   countries around the world, including in Europe Brazil 63.7 and Asia,
   undertaken through the 1997 Venezuela 43.1 Information Technology
   Agreement (ITA).6 Mexico 38.6 Further, Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, and
   Uruguay have created MERCOSUR (a customs Colombia 30.5 union)
   eliminating tariffs on trade7 between Source: International Data
   Corporation MERCOSUR member countries and The region is incredibly
   diverse and should not establishing a common external tariff (CET) on
   be approached as a single market. Latin imports from third countries.
   Products shipped America has more than forty South American, between
   MERCOSUR countries, therefore, Central American, and Carribean nations,
   each with a unique culture. In Brazil, which represents approximately
   half of the Latin 5 "Homologation" is an English translation of a
   concept American market, Portuguese is spoken, while which does not
   exist in the United States. It refers to Spanish is spoken in most of
   the other countries official government recognition of certificates of
   of the region. Further, each Spanish-speaking conformity for
   telecommunications equipment. Homologation requirements are relatively
   common in country speaks a slightly different version of the Latin
   American countries. language, and cultural differences among the
   Spanish-speaking countries are vast. The 6The ITA calls for tariff
   elimination on a wide range of markets demand products and services
   tailored such products, including computers, software, electronic
   components, and networking and telecommunications to each language and
   culture. equipment. El Salvador and Costa Rica currently are the only
   two Latin American countries to participate in the In many cases,
   government regulations can ITA, and they have begun to eliminate their
   tariffs on impede foreign access to Latin American ITA products. The
   U.S. Government continues to work markets. Brazil, for instance, has
   mandated that with U.S. industry to convince Brazil, Argentina, and
   other Latin American countries to join the ITA. For fixed line
   telecommunications service providers more information on the ITA, see
   the Appendix. procure equipment primarily from domestic 7With the
   exception of some agricultural products. For more information on
   MERCOSUR, see the Appendix. 6 Office of Computers and Business
   Equipment/ Office of Telecommunications, USDOC, June 2000 have a price
   advantage in terms of import duties over products imported from the
   United States. The CET on all telecommunications and IT products
   imported from non-MERCOSUR countries will average 16 percent maximum by
   2006.8 A final and critical market access issue of specific concern to
   U.S. IT firms in Latin America is the lack of sufficient protection for
   intellectual property rights (IPR). Although many countries may have
   strong IPR laws on the books, enforcement can be spotty or inadequate.
   Despite these challenges, demand for U.S. telecommunications and IT
   technologies in the Latin American markets over the next several years
   should continue to be quite strong and the market opportunities broad
   and varied for U.S. firms. 8Nonetheless, there is one positive benefit
   of MERCOSUR for U.S. exporters; in some cases, countries' tariffs will
   be lower under the CET than pre-MERCOSUR. For example, Brazil generally
   has had to lower its tariffs to reach the CET. 7 Office of Computers
   and Business Equipment/ Office of Telecommunications, USDOC, June 2000
   CHAPTER 2: OVERVIEW OF THE LATIN AMERICAN IT AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS
   MARKETS Latin America's IT and telecommunications in 1997, growth in
   1998 was less than two markets are undergoing rapid change and percent,
   and growth in 1999 was negligible. growth. Increased competition in
   This region-wide downturn, coupled with telecommunications services in
   many countries, significant currency devaluations in several largely
   due to recent or pending liberalization of markets-- most notably an
   almost 40 percent telecommunications services markets, is driving
   devaluation in the Brazilian real against the investment in
   leading-edge telecommunications U.S. dollar-- both lessened demand for
   U.S. technologies, lowering telecommunications exports and increased
   their cost in dollar terms costs for consumers, and facilitating more
   relative to domestically produced goods. The Internet and e-commerce
   use. Many Argentine economy was hit especially hard organizations in
   the region are increasing their because of its close trade and
   investment ties IT investments, spurred by growing recognition with
   Brazil, since Argentina's peso is pegged to of the importance of IT use
   to improve the U.S. dollar and was not devalued. productivity and
   international competitiveness. Argentina's exports to Brazil, its
   largest export market, became relatively more expensive in Brazil,
   Mexico, and Argentina are Latin that country, and demand for them
   slowed. America's fastest growing markets in general, as well as for
   leading-edge technologies, and The recession affected Latin American
   are the largest export markets in that region for telecommunications
   and IT industries and U.S. telecommunications and computer markets in
   different ways. Overall, hardware equipment manufacturers. Venezuela,
   telecommunications industries and markets Chile, Colombia, the
   Dominican Republic, were not largely affected. Telecommunications
   Paraguay and Peru round out the top ten export privatization and
   deregulation already had destinations in Latin America for these U.S.
   begun in many countries, and increasing exports. competition continued
   to push telecommunications service providers to build The regional
   economic crisis affected the out their networks rapidly, both wireline
   and markets in various ways wireless, and to invest in new
   technologies. Latin America experienced a regional economic downturn
   which began in late 1998 and In contrast, the recession affected the IT
   continued through much of 1999. The global markets more heavily. The
   growth rate of many financial crisis and lower commodity prices had
   Latin American organizations' investments in a dampening effect on
   economic growth in the IT slowed during the recession. Budgets for IT
   region. In 1999, Hurricanes George and Mitch spending tightened as
   foreign investment in took their toll in the Caribbean and Central many
   Latin American economies dried up. America as well. While Latin
   America's Both consumer purchasing power and domestic economies
   collectively grew almost five percent 8 Office of Computers and
   Business Equipment/ Office of Telecommunications, USDOC, June 2000
   demand fell. Government spending on IT $2 billion in 1999, according to
   the U.S. decreased as well, since tax revenues declined Department of
   Commerce. Business process re- and governments allocated more spending
   to engineering is gaining the attention of larger strengthening local
   economies and addressing Latin American businesses, and as a result,
   social issues. much of the demand will be for software to automate back
   offices and improve efficiency, The regional recession coincided with
   the entry namely enterprise resource planning (ERP) and of the Internet
   into Latin America,9 slowing its customer relationship management (CRM)
   adoption. Firms had fewer financial resources software. Many firms are
   starting to implement to create an on-line presence, and consumers
   e-commerce strategies and, as a result, their had less discretionary
   income for extras such as demand for e-commerce software will also be
   Internet accounts. Therefore, the recession also high. However, in a
   region where six in every slowed the growth of business-to-consumer ten
   installed software applications are illegal (B2C) and
   business-to-business (B2B) e- copies, software piracy remains an
   important commerce. issue, dampening sales prospects for foreign
   suppliers and stifling creativity and growth in But economic recovery
   has already taken hold local software industries. Nonetheless, some
   Most Latin American economies had begun to countries, such as
   Argentina, Brazil, and recover from recession by late 1999 and are
   Colombia, have taken the first steps toward expected to have positive
   growth in 2000. As a strengthening their copyright laws and result,
   these trends in IT spending are slowly enforcement to protect software
   developers and beginning to change. PC sales were up 12 speed the
   growth of e-commerce. percent in 1999 over the previous year and are
   expected to continue to increase. Firms are The growing use of IT
   products is, in turn, planning and allocating funds for more IT
   spurring increased spending on IT services. investments. Internet use
   is growing, as is B2C The International Data Corporation (IDC)
   e-commerce. There is great interest in B2B e- valued the IT services
   market in Latin America commerce, and firms slowly are increasing their
   at $8.5 billion in 1998 and predicts it will grow investments in
   electronic business technologies. to more than $13.9 billion in 2002.
   Most IT services spending is for systems integration, Latin America is
   the second fastest-growing reflecting the need to integrate front and
   back market for U.S. software developers, second offices. IDC expects
   the systems integration only to Asia. PricewaterhouseCoopers predicts
   market will double from $1.3 billion in 1998 to software sales in Latin
   America, valued at $3.5 $2.6 billion in 2002. Data processing services,
   billion in 1998, will grow 18 percent annually hardware and software
   installation and support, through 2002. Brazil currently is the largest
   and information systems (IS) outsourcing are Latin American software
   market, with sales of other growing IT services segments in the region.
   Companies in banking, financial services and manufacturing account for
   most IT 9In stark contrast to the United States, where the services
   spending in Latin America, and IDC introduction of the Internet to
   businesses and consumers predicts these vertical industry markets will
   has coincided with the longest economic boom in U.S. history. 9 Office
   of Computers and Business Equipment/ Office of Telecommunications,
   USDOC, June 2000 continue to lead spending in the foreseeable Agreement
   on Basic Telecommunications future. Services, which many Latin American
   countries have joined and are implementing, has lowered However,
   although Latin American firms telecommunications trade barriers and
   opened understand the importance of IT to their markets. The Agreement
   has three productivity and competitiveness, their budgets components--
   market access, national remain tight. Many firms, particularly smaller
   treatment,10 and pro-competitive regulatory ones, still do not have the
   resources to invest in principles.11 It aims to provide foreign IT.
   Further, it is difficult to obtain financing in telecommunications
   carriers full access to Latin America. Bank loans are expensive, since
   participating countries' local, long distance, and interest rates are
   far above what is common in international service markets via all
   network the United States. Governments of countries technologies
   wireline, cellular, microwave, such as Argentina and Brazil, which have
   had and satellite  either on a facilities basis or histories of
   hyperinflation, are reluctant to lower through resale. The Agreement
   also aims to interest rates for fear of setting off inflation. ensure
   that foreign investors can acquire or hold Industry observers further
   note that the wild a significant stake in signatories' economic swings
   of recent years have made it telecommunications companies, or establish
   difficult for firms to think long-term. As a companies in those
   markets. result, it may still be some time before many firms,
   particularly smaller ones, are able to plan Privatization and greater
   competition are for IT investments over the long-term. spurring growth
   in spending on telecommunications services and equipment.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS Basic services are being delivered to a greater
   There are an estimated 60 million main percentage of the population,
   with greater telephone lines in Latin America, for an average choice
   and at lower cost for many consumers. teledensity rate of approximately
   12 per cent. Increased telecommunications use is driving However,
   investments are growing. Baskerville demand for leading-edge
   telecommunications Communications (now the Informa Group) technologies
   and is facilitating greater Internet estimates that the number of main
   lines will and e-commerce use. surpass 80 million and average
   teledensity will reach 16 lines per 100 inhabitants by 2003. Major
   changes in telecommunications throughout the region Privatization of
   formerly state-owned telecommunications providers, liberalization of
   10National treatment means that governments must telecommunications
   markets, and greater accord foreign-owned firms the same treatment as
   they competition have spurred growth in the give domestic companies.
   telecommunications sectors throughout the 11The pro-competitive
   regulatory principles are detailed region. Most countries in the region
   completed in the Reference Paper on Regulatory Principles privatizing
   their national operators in the 1990s. associated with the WTO
   Agreement on Basic The World Trade Organization (WTO)
   Telecommunications Services and can be found at
   http://www.wto.org/wto/services/tel23.htm. 10 Office of Computers and
   Business Equipment/ Office of Telecommunications, USDOC, June 2000
   TTTee Teellleco eco lecommun mmun ecommunii mmunica ca icatiti catioo
   tionn ons S s S ns See s Seerv rv rvii rvices: ces: ices: Lev Lev ces:
   Levee Leveelllss lss o o off off development costs and low return on
   Compe Compe Compe Compettttition in the ition in the ition in the ition
   in the Ame Ame Ame Amerrric ic ric icas, 1999 as, 1999 as, 1999 as,
   1999 investment. The regional economic recession barely dented growth
   in Latin America's telecommunications Competition sector, as recent and
   upcoming basic services liberalization continues to drive
   telecommunications growth and convergence in Latin America. While
   financial, regulatory, and political barriers still exist in the
   region, most countries have moved ahead with market liberalization. In
   1998, telecommunications Monopoly services revenues were over $50
   billion, and they are growing at about 20 percent annually. New license
   awards for wireline and wireless Source: International
   Telecommunication Union, Americas Telecommunication Indicators 2000
   (see Acknowledgment) (cellular, personal communications services or
   "PCS", wireless local loop or "WLL", local Service quality and coverage
   are increasing, in multipoint distribution services or "LMDS") part due
   to performance and coverage criteria technologies, as well as cable
   television, will which are commonly incorporated as terms in continue
   to spur network expansion and the the privatization of a state-owned
   offering of new services throughout the region. telecommunications
   company or within the As the region's economies pull into positive
   terms of a licensing agreement for a new growth in 2000, greater
   discretionary income in operator. Examples of performance criteria
   conjunction with pent-up demand for include call completion standards
   and allowable telecommunications services will continue to number of
   billing errors. Examples of coverage spur telecommunications growth
   throughout the criteria include providing service to a certain region.
   percentage of the population in certain geographic areas within set
   time frames (also Many changes in this region over recent years
   referred to as "universal service" or buildout have driven growth in
   foreign exports and requirements). Some of these requirements are
   investment, although a wide range of regulatory specifically aimed at
   the installation of public environments remain. Chile's telephones or
   telephone centers in rural and telecommunications market is the
   region's most poor areas to provide basic services such as liberalized
   and its long distance sector the most local and long distance calls,
   message centers competitive in Latin America. Investments in and
   operator assistance. Universal service Chile's telecommunications
   sector are projected requirements have helped expand Latin to run about
   $700 million annually as the American countries' telecommunications
   market grows an average 14 percent per year. infrastructures into
   communities that generally In Mexico, the government auctioned off do
   not attract investors because of high several wireless licenses over
   the last three years, including those for multichannel 11 Office of
   Computers and Business Equipment/ Office of Telecommunications, USDOC,
   June 2000 multipoint distribution services (MMDS), and LMDS already are
   deployed to provide WLL, and PCS, and plans to issue LMDS local voice
   and data services, primarily to the licenses in 2000. The Brazilian
   market is business market. In some areas, such as Rio de tremendously
   active, as competition is Janeiro and throughout Paraguay, the number
   of introduced in local and long distance voice wireless lines already
   exceeds fixed lines, and services, and competition in data services
   heats other areas also will quickly achieve that up. The Brazilian
   government sold nine cellular distinction. Pre-paid services, which are
   licenses in 1998, privatized the national attractive to consumers with
   limited operator, TELEBRAS, and plans to issue PCS discretionary
   income, and "calling party pays" licenses in 2000. Both the privatized
   and newly policies have driven growth in the mobile licensed
   telecommunications operators are wireless sector. Some industry
   observers gearing up for full competition in late 2002. estimate that
   approximately 70 percent of Argentina has begun to license competitors
   to mobile wireless subscribers in Latin America Telefónica and Telecom
   Argentina, the two use pre-paid services. dominant telecommunications
   operators, and all operators are building out their networks in THE
   INTERNET preparation for full market opening in late 2000. Relatively
   common use of the Internet in Latin In Colombia, the national operator
   began America began only about one year ago and use competing with
   private long distance providers in the region remains extremely low
   compared in late 1998, and auctions for nationwide PCS to that in
   United States. Approximately 5 licenses are planned for 2000. In Peru,
   percent of Latin Americans have Internet Telefonica del Peru's monopoly
   was terminated access, compared to 52 percent of the U.S. a year ahead
   of schedule, numerous competitors population. The region's low
   teledensity rate, are entering the market, and the government only 12
   lines per 100 people, means that nearly issued a third PCS license and
   new fixed 90 percent of Latin Americans do not have the wireless
   licenses in early 2000. Venezuela's telephone lines necessary to
   connect to the telecommunications sector is absorbing Internet through
   dial-up connections. Further, investments of approximately $1 billion a
   year the PC penetration rate is low. According to as the government
   plans to sell off a third IDC, there were only 4.9 million Internet-
   national cellular license in 2000, and the enabled PCs in Latin America
   in 1999. In monopoly on basic telephone services is set to general, PCs
   are too expensive for most end in November 2000. consumers, although
   some Internet Service Providers (ISPs) have begun to offer PCs on The
   wireless sector is particularly strong installment plans to make them
   more affordable The wireless segment, in particular, has grown and to
   encourage Internet use. Additionally, for strongly in most countries in
   Latin America, as Latin American households, using the Internet
   countries look to more advanced wireless is expensive because users are
   charged by the technologies to increase teledensity rapidly. minute for
   local calls. Companies use wireless technologies as a quick and
   cost-effective means to meet the geographic coverage and network
   buildout requirements that often are part of their license terms. WLL
   12 Office of Computers and Business Equipment/ Office of
   Telecommunications, USDOC, June 2000 SSSee Seelllected ected lected La
   La ected Latiti Latinn tin A A n Am m Ameri eri mericc ericcaaann an C
   C n Coo Coun un ountri tri untriee triees: s: s: s: Brazil's Universo
   On Line (UOL) is the largest Int Int Int Inteeeerne rne rne rnetttt P P
   P Peeeene ne ne nettttrrrat at rat ation in Uppe ion in Uppe ion in
   Uppe ion in Upper and Middle r and Middle r and Middle r and Middle
   portal in the world outside of the United States. Classe Classe
   Classes, 1999 s, 1999 Classes, 1999 s, 1999 However, other countries in
   Latin America, especially Argentina, Chile, Mexico, and Venezuela, are
   catching up to Brazil quickly. According to IDC, in September 1999
   Brazil had 40 percent of Latin America's total Internet population,
   followed by Mexico at 22 percent, Argentina at 9 percent, Venezuela and
   Chile tied at 6 percent each, and Colombia at 5 percent. SSShh Shaa
   harr are o e o re off e of Regi Regi f Regioo Regionn onaa nall al I I
   l Inn Intern tern nternet M et M ternet Maa et Market* rket* arket*
   rket* Source: The Boston Consulting Group, 199912 Nonetheless, Latin
   America is the fastest- growing Internet market in the world, and is
   viewed by many industry observers as the next major region of
   opportunity for the Internet. IDC estimates the number of Latin
   American Internet users will grow to 29.6 million in 2003, up from 8.7
   million in 1999. While the past 12 months have been very important to
   the development of the Internet and e-commerce in the region, the next
   12 months will be even Note:* measured by number of access accounts, as
   of September 1999 more significant. Over the longer term, market
   experts suggest that the Internet's impact on the Source: IDC Latin
   America 1999, Internet Service Markets region could be greater than on
   a more mature Internet use is growing as Latin American economy like
   the United States, given the business leaders increasingly recognize
   the decades of protectionism and monopolistic importance of using it to
   increase productivity regimes in some countries which have led to and
   efficiency and the need to make Internet- significant inefficiencies in
   their economies. related investments. In addition, governments and
   universities are beginning to tap the Brazil has been the region's
   "early adopter" and Internet's potential for information and is much
   further ahead in Internet use than the education, and consumers are
   signing up for other countries in Latin America. In fact, Internet
   accounts as access prices fall. Latin America's market for
   Internet-related services was valued at $1.4 billion in 1999 and is
   12BCG's Internet penetration figures in this chart are expected to grow
   42 percent annually to from 1999, and thus may not match Internet
   penetration $8.1 billion in 2004, according to IDC. figures in the
   report text, which are the most recently available. Demand is
   burgeoning for Internet access 13 Office of Computers and Business
   Equipment/ Office of Telecommunications, USDOC, June 2000 services,
   both dial-up and broadband, as well as difficult to understand or
   navigate where there for value-added Internet services, such as e- are
   newly established regulatory agencies. commerce, which the growing
   number of ISPs Some countries have yet to develop rules about and other
   access providers need to augment the provision of Internet services.
   Another their offerings to compete in an increasingly challenge is poor
   infrastructure; Latin America crowded market. Reflecting this trend,
   IDC lacks a major Internet backbone. As local sites reported that
   e-commerce solutions and web- are multiplying, however, local and
   regional hosting services were the most popular value- backbones are
   being built. added services in 1999. Large, particularly multinational,
   firms lead the way in Internet- Portals are being established at rapid
   rate related services spending. throughout Latin America. Some offer a
   wide array of services, whereas others focus on ISPs, mostly local or
   regional, have been particular industries, such as financial services,
   flooding into Latin American markets. Top-tier automobile sales,
   wedding planning, and real foreign ISPs have been striving to establish
   a estate. Most Latin American portals, however, pan-regional presence,
   either through do not offer on-line payment transaction establishing
   their own networks or by acquiring services as part of an e-commerce
   solution. small local ISPs. Last year, PSINet bought 26 New York-based
   StarMedia is competing with ISPs throughout Latin America to build its
   other leading firms, including Brazil's UOL and offerings to the
   business market. Spain's Spain's ZAZ, to become the gateway of choice
   Telefónica, which owns telecommunications for Latin American Internet
   users. Yahoo! and operators in several Latin American countries, AOL
   have entered the market as well. PSINet rapidly has become a regional
   Internet power by launched a regional consumer-focused portal
   purchasing ISPs in Brazil, Mexico, Chile, and and access provider,
   inter.net, in March 2000 in Venezuela through its Internet arm, Terra
   several countries such as Argentina, Brazil, Networks, which also
   recently announced plans Chile, Mexico, Panama, Puerto Rico, and to buy
   the U.S. portal Lycos. Regional Uruguay. telecommunications firms have
   been slow to move into the ISP business. In some countries, The most
   successful pan-regional portals are such as Brazil and Argentina, this
   is because of those that offer content in Spanish and regulatory
   constraints. Experts expect these Portuguese and customize information
   for telecommunications operators to become individual Latin American
   countries. However, increasingly competitive ISPs in the future,
   industry insiders think that the pan-regional when those markets become
   fully liberalized portals often lack enough local substance and and
   telecommunications operators are allowed have difficulty competing with
   local portals. to provide Internet service. Internet demand is spurring
   a local Internet Despite the battle for market share, there is no
   industry one clearly dominant ISP in Latin America. Money is flowing
   into emerging Internet start- One obstacle to a pan-regional presence
   is an ups in the region, particularly in Argentina and uneven
   regulatory environment. Regulations Brazil. In fact, venture capital
   firms, many of differ from country to country and can be them foreign,
   are setting up in Buenos Aires, 14 Office of Computers and Business
   Equipment/ Office of Telecommunications, USDOC, June 2000 São Paulo,
   and other major cities. In many Internet access technologies will be
   deployed in cases, Brazilian start-ups can focus exclusively the region
   or which technologies will be most on the Brazilian market because of
   its sheer prevalent in the future. size. In countries outside of
   Brazil, single markets often are too small to support start-ups.
   Currently, Internet over cable television In these countries
   especially, venture capitalists infrastructure is the predominant
   broadband seek regional ideas that can reach Latin technology used for
   residential service, but America's millions of Spanish speakers.
   subscribership is apparently relatively low. Most cable operators'
   networks have not been However, Latin American Internet start-ups
   upgraded to support Internet over cable and the have many handicaps.
   Despite the influx of service is restricted to certain neighborhoods of
   venture capital, new firms lack funding. IPOs major cities. Further,
   most access currently are rare, interest rates on bank loans are
   offered is one-way, which many customers prohibitively high in most
   countries, and banks dislike because of the additional cost for a dial-
   in Latin America tend to be leery of start-ups. up line to upload
   information. In addition, In addition, most Latin American start-ups
   have prices for cable modems and subscription fees ideas but lack the
   hardware, software, and are too high for most consumers. technical
   knowledge to successfully start a business. In addition, lack of
   talented Nonetheless, some market research firms expect management and
   quality staff limits many Internet over cable to take off in the
   region. firms' growth. Because the Internet is so new The Strategis
   Group estimated that Latin in the region, few people are familiar with
   its America's cable modem market was $23 technologies or have relevant
   experience. million in 1999 and expects it will grow to $740 Firms in
   the industry report difficulties hiring million in 2003. During this
   period, it expects qualified teams at the necessary pace. For all of
   the installed cable modem base will grow from these reasons access to
   additional funding, 54,000 to 1.2 million units. However, like most
   access to technologies necessary to execute of Latin America's IT
   sector, deployment of ideas, and access to trained and knowledgeable
   cable modems will be very fragmented, with people-- many start-ups in
   Latin America medium-term growth focused in densely actively seek U.S.
   partners. populated, wealthier urban areas such as the affluent
   neighborhoods in Buenos Aires, São Broadband Internet just entering the
   region Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, and Mexico City. The overwhelming
   majority of Latin America's Although some telecommunications operators
   Internet access, both business and residential, is are testing xDSL and
   ISDN in the larger cities, via basic dial-up. Broadband Internet
   entered these technologies are not yet widely used. Latin America in
   1998, as Internet access technologies including cable, digital
   subscriber line (xDSL), integrated services digital network (ISDN), and
   wireless were tested or launched commercially in some of the region's
   top markets. However, offerings are very limited, and it remains
   unclear how quickly broadband 15 Office of Computers and Business
   Equipment/ Office of Telecommunications, USDOC, June 2000 Latin A Latin
   Am m Latin A erica erica merica Latin America: Distribution of Cable :
   D : Di : D si ist stribu tribut ributiton of Cable iion of Cable on of
   Cable Wire Wire Wire Wirele le le lessssssss Broadband in t Broadband
   in t Broadband in t Broadband in thhhee hee Ame Ame Ame Amerrric ic ric
   icas as as as, , , , Mode Mode Mode Modem Re m Re m Re m Reve ve ve
   venue nue nue nuessss by Country, by Country, by Country, by Country,
   in Mile in Mile in Mile in Miles of Line s of Line s of Line s of
   Lines, 2000 and 2005 s, 2000 and 2005 s, 2000 and 2005 s, 2000 and 2005
   2003 2003 2003 2003 Source: The Strategis Group Demand for wireless
   broadband is high Because of deficiencies in the wireline
   infrastructure, demand for fixed wireless broadband in businesses is
   high and many firms eagerly await the technologies, which are being
   launched commercially in a few major cities. The Strategis Group
   predicts revenues for fixed wireless broadband could reach $2.5 billion
   Source: Convergencia Telemática annually in the region. Some of the
   major companies in this sector include Velocom, There is much
   anticipation for wireless which is offering (or soon plans to offer)
   fixed Internet via WAP wireless service to small firms in Brazil, As in
   the United States, wireless Internet Argentina, Colombia and Peru;
   Diginet currently is available only on a very limited America (Diveo),
   which is offering fixed scale, such as basic electronic text messages
   for wireless services in Buenos Aires, Bogota, and mobile phones. Many
   industry participants and São Paulo (with plans to launch commercially
   observers eagerly anticipate the wide rollout of in other Brazilian
   cities), as well as in Panama, Wireless Application Protocol
   (WAP)-enabled Peru, and Uruguay; and Winstar and other handheld
   devices, which were introduced in the firms. region in early 2000. They
   believe Latin America is an excellent market for WAP products, which
   can transmit and receive data, graphics, and voice. Since the low
   wireline and PC penetration rates make traditional dial-up Internet
   access difficult, unlike in the United 16 Office of Computers and
   Business Equipment/ Office of Telecommunications, USDOC, June 2000
   States, most Latin Americans cannot access the financing, but most are
   not making any profit Internet regularly via PC and would welcome nor
   are they making many sales. In the United other alternatives. Latin
   Americans also are States, most B2C firms lose money as well  known for
   their affinity for mobile but many of them do have relatively strong
   communications devices. In fact, the growth in sales. Industry analysts
   state B2C will continue mobile phones in Latin America is triple the PC
   to grow in Latin America, but will take longer growth rate.13 Many
   Latin American wireless to gain a foothold than in the United States.
   operators are investing in WAP technologies Jupiter Communications
   predicts that Latin and allying with WAP content providers in American
   B2C sales will reach $8.3 billion in anticipation of wide adoption of
   this 2005. technology. Observers believe Internet over WAP-enabled
   devices will quickly become very Latin Ame Latin Ame Latin Ame Latin
   Amerrric ic ric ica: B2C On-line a: B2C On-line a: B2C On-line a: B2C
   On-line Spe Spe Spe Spennnding, ding, popular in Brazil. ding, nding,
   by Country (in Millions of $) by Country (in Millions of $) by Country
   (in Millions of $) by Country (in Millions of $) ELECTRONIC COMMERCE
   1999 2005 E-commerce revenues in Latin America are predicted to grow
   quickly. Given the Brazil $121 $4,256 fragmented nature of the Latin
   American Mexico $25 $1,542 market and the vast gap in income
   distribution, growth of e-commerce will differ among Argentina $15
   $1,094 countries  as well as regions within each Chile $7 $312 country.
   These differences will present U.S. companies with a range of
   challenges. Brazil, Venezuela $4 $348 Mexico, and Argentina could
   provide the Peru $5 $164 greatest opportunities for e-commerce given
   their relatively large markets and high Internet Colombia $7 $336
   penetration. The smaller and poorer countries Other $8 $277 in the
   region are far from adopting e-commerce and will continue to lag behind
   the rest of Latin Total $194 $8,330 America. Source: Jupiter
   Communications As in many other markets globally, change will Despite
   recent media hype, Jupiter occur more rapidly in B2B e-commerce, for
   Communications estimates the total value of which the region is better
   suited. In fact, Latin America's B2C e-commerce purchases industry
   observers discuss B2B as the next big was only $194 million in 1999.
   B2C electronic trend, and the uptake in B2B e-commerce in the commerce
   is most markedly occurring only in region is rapid. In the United
   States, B2C Brazil. Many B2C companies in the region e-commerce
   preceded B2B by approximately have received venture capital and other
   two or three years. In Latin America, the lag between the entry of B2B
   and B2C was only about one year. 13Some people expect WAP's popularity
   in Latin America to be similar to that in Europe, which also has low PC
   penetration rates. 17 Office of Computers and Business Equipment/
   Office of Telecommunications, USDOC, June 2000 Brazil: An E-Comme
   Brazil: An E-Comme Brazil: An E-Comme Brazil: An E-Commerc rc rc rceeee
   H H H Heeeeaaavywe vywe avywe vyweight ight ight ight In fact, the
   underdeveloped delivery systems in Latin America-- there are few major
   highways, LLLaa Latt atiitin Am n Am in Amer er n Amerii ericc iccaaa::
   a: P P : Pee Peerrrcent cent rcentaa centage of ge of age of E- E- ge
   of E-Com Com E-Comm m Commee meerrrcc rcceeee and postal systems,
   delivery companies, and Spendi Spendi Spending on L ng on L Spending on
   Laa ng on Latt atiitin Am n Am in Amer er n Amerii ericc iccaaann ann
   Si Si Sitt Sitee teesss,, s, , couriers often are unreliable or
   inefficient-- is by by by Count Count by Countrr Countryy ry (1999)
   (1999) y (1999) (1999) another factor slowing B2C e-commerce growth.14
   In the United States, an efficient delivery system was in place before
   the arrival of e-commerce. In Latin America, e-commerce is pushing the
   development of delivery systems, but prices for delivery remain high by
   local standards. It is estimated that 74 percent of Latin America's B2C
   e-commerce purchases go to firms located outside the region, primarily
   in the United States. As a result, customs regulations and import
