http://galveston.ssp.nmfs.gov/galv/

                          NMFS Galveston Laboratory

                                DOC Home Page

                               NOAA Home Page


                                  Research
                Sea Turtles
                Publications
                Personnel
                Facility
                History
                News
                Jobs
                Community
                Photo Album
                WetNet
                Links

                Galveston Laboratory
                Essential Fish Habitat website

                Galveston Laboratory
                Gulf of Mexico Shrimp Fishery exhibit website


     Note: These pages are best viewed in 800x600 resolution or better.

                                  Webmaster

                              FirstGov web site

Welcome to the National Marine Fisheries Service Galveston Laboratory Home
Page. This laboratory provides scientific information on the management of
commercial and recreational shellfish and finfish, conservation of coastal
habitats, and protection of threatened and endangered marine species of the
Gulf of Mexico.

                                  Bldg. 302



   bullet new.gif (875 bytes) Research Assistant position- Fishery Ecology

   bullet Biological Science Technician positions available.

   bullet Forecast for the 2001 Brown Shrimping Season in the Western Gulf
          of Mexico, from the Mississippi River to the U.S. - Mexico Border

   bullet All Laboratory publications are now available for downloading.

                       Please read our Privacy Policy

   Note:  Web pages are used for documentation and timely communication of
   preliminary results, interim reports, or special-purpose information,
   and have not received complete formal review, editorial control, or
   detailed editing. The National Marine Fisheries Service-Galveston
   Laboratory (NMFS/Galveston Lab) does not approve, recommend or endorse
   any proprietary product or proprietary material mentioned in the pages
   on this server. No reference shall be made to NMFS/Galveston Lab, or to
   these pages furnished by NMFS/Galveston Lab, in any advertising or
   sales promotion which would indicate or imply that NMFS/Galveston Lab
   approves, recommends or endorses any proprietary product or proprietary
   material mentioned herein, or which has as its purpose an intent to
   cause directly or indirectly the advertised product to be used or
   purchased because of these pages.

                    United States Department of Commerce
               National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
                      National Marine Fisheries Service
                     Southeast Fisheries Science Center
                            Galveston Laboratory
                                4700 Avenue U
                          Galveston, TX 77551-5997
                               (409) 766-3500

                         Updated:  24 January, 2002
