http://www.treasurer.ca.gov/publications/treasurynote/2002/january.pdf

   STATE OF CALIFORNIA Philip Angelides, Treasurer OFFICE OF THE TREASURER
   P.O. Box 942809 Sacramento, CA 94209-0001 (800) 900-3873
   www.treasurer.ca.gov The Treasury Note A monthly newsletter of
   municipal finance January 1, 2002 Veterans Affairs General Obligation
   Bond Sale In a bond sale on November 29, 2001 for the Company; Pacific
   American Securities; Roberts Department of Veterans Affairs, the State
   sold and Ryan Investments, Inc.; Salomon Smith $228,525,000 million in
   bonds. The sale included Barney; Siebert Brandford Shank & Co. LLC; and
   $111,325,000 in veterans general obligation bonds Tucker Anthony Sutro.
   Hawkins, Delafield & Wood and another $117,200,000 in veterans revenue
   served as Bond Counsel with Quateman & Zidell bonds. LLP serving as
   disclosure counsel. CSG Advisors served as pricing advisor. Under the
   Contracts of Purchase between the Department of Veterans Affairs and
   eligible veterans, the program utilizes proceeds from the $41.4 Million
   in Bonds for the sale to acquire residential property to be sold to
   State Public Works Board eligible veterans. This bond sale will provide
   $17,141,000 million in new funds to finance new On November 27, 2001,
   the State sold $41.4 Contracts of Purchase between the Department
   million in bonds for the State Public Works Board of Veterans Affairs
   and eligible veterans. As a (SPWB). The bond proceeds will be used by
   the result, more veterans will be able to buy homes at Department of
   Mental Health and the Department lower interest rates. The veterans
   general of the Youth Authority to upgrade existing facilities.
   obligation bonds were also issued to replace and The Department of
   Mental Health will fund the refund certain outstanding obligations of
   the State. construction of a 250-bed addition at Atascadero When bonds
   are refunded, the State can take State Hospital. The Department of the
   Youth advantage of the lower interest rates and Authority will fund the
   construction of the Ventura restructure their debt so more funds may be
   made Youth Correctional Facility and the Southern Youth available for
   veteran's home loans. Correctional Facility. Since the inception of the
   Veterans Farm and The bonds were sold in a negotiated sale by a Home
   Purchase Act of 1943, the Contracts of team of underwriters led by
   Redwood Securities Purchase Program has allowed the Department Group,
   Inc. and The Chapman Company. Co- of Veterans Affairs to assist over
   400,000 veterans managers included eBondTrade, First Albany in
   purchasing farms and homes throughout the Corporation, J.P. Morgan
   Securities Inc., Merrill State of California. Lynch & Co., Ramirez &
   Co., Inc., Roberts and Ryan Investments, Inc., and Siebert Brandford
   The bonds were sold in a negotiated sale led by Shank & Co., LLC.
   Kelling, Northcross & Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc. Lehman Brothers and
   Nobriga served as the pricing advisor. Stradling, Merrill Lynch & Co.
   served as co-senior managers. Yocca, Carlson & Rauth served as lead
   bond The co-managers included First Albany counsel with Quint & Thimmig
   LLP as co-bond Corporation; Great Pacific Securities, Inc.; Mischler
   counsel and Foley & Lardner as disclosure Financial Group; Morgan
   Stanley; M.R., Beal & counsel. UCLA Anderson Forecast The UCLA Anderson
   Forecast Project held its According to the UCLA forecasts, the recovery
   of quarterly economic conference on December 5. California will depend
   on the recovery of its largest The economists noted that this national
   recession customer, the nation. Tourism and trade should is not a
   particularly long or deep one and the United pick up by the middle of
   the year as people regain States should see a gradual recovery by
   mid-year confidence to travel. Northern California will 2002. According
   to the UCLA economists, the recover at a slower rate than Southern
   California recession actually began last March as a due to the
   significant impact that the Internet consequence of the "Internet Rush"
   of the last few market had on their economy. In addition, UCLA years.
   This rush created corporate, global portfolio, analysts report,
   California needs to address all its and consumer imbalances that are
   now correcting budgetary problems. All in all, in a historical look
   themselves in the form of a recession. The at recessions over the past
   50 years, this recession recession is not a consequence of the
   terrorist appears to be a mild one stated Edward E. Leamer. attacks of
   September 11, emphasizes Edward E. Leamer, Director of the UCLA
   Anderson Forecast. For Your Information He stated terrorism is more
   likely to cause changes Tax season is approaching and if you received a
   in the economy in the long term as steps are taken redemption payment
   from our office in 2001, you to increase national security. will
   receive a 1099-B Notice. Our office will mail the forms on or before
   January 31, 2002. Please UCLA forecasters stated that due to aggressive
   contact the Bondholder Services Section at (800) interest rate cuts by
   the feds, real Gross Domestic 900-3873 if you have questions regarding
   the Product is holding up. They also found many firms 1099-B Notice.
   held on to their employees as they remember how Redemptions &
   Defeasances hard it was to find good workers during the dot- com boom.
   As a result of these actions, individuals This listing reflects
   redemptions & defeasances have been able to maintain their lifestyle
   and keep officially anounced as of January 1, 2002 buying houses. What
   the nation does face, California Housing Finance Agency, Multi-Unit
   however, is the pressure the internet has put on Rental Housing Revenue
   Bonds, 1994 Series A, firms to compete. The internet has created a
   highly Dated Date: February 1, 1994 (Full Redemption) informed consumer
   who has the luxury of All bonds will be redeemed on February 1, 2002.
   comparing prices on similar goods at their finger State of California
   Veterans General Obligation tips. While as a consumer this is great, it
   is Bonds, Series BC, Dated Date: March 1, 1995 dramatically cutting
   into firms' profitability. This All of the bonds due February 1, 2018
   will be drop in profits could lead to decreased business redeemed on
   February 1, 2002. investment, bankruptcies, and mergers and State of
   California Veterans General Obligation acquisitions. Bonds, Series BD,
   BE and BF, Dated Date: March 1, 1995 All of the bonds due February 1,
   2020, 2022 The forecasters further stated that historically, as and
   2025 will be redeemed on February 1, 2002. the economy begins to
   recover, the unemployment rate rises during the first two quarters of
   recovery. Questions regarding redemptions or registration UCLA predicts
   that unemployment will continue to information can be directed to the
   Investor grow from its current rate of 5.0 percent in the Relations
   Section at (800) 900-3873. nation and 5.7 percent in California,
   expecting it to climb to a high of 5.8 percent nationally and 6.4 Bond
   Sales Calendar percent in California by early 2003. While suffering The
   bond sales calendar will be announced in more than the rest of the
   nation in job losses from February 2002. For up-to-date information the
   Internet rush, California reportedly has fared check our website at:
   better than the nation as far as job loss as a result
   www.treasurer.ca.gov/stoupcom.htm of the September 11 terrorism
   attacks. or call Investor Relations at (800) 900-3873
