http://doe-is.llnl.gov/SecRes/CustomTools/sei-sim-002.pdf

   Security for a Public Web Site Robert Firth Gary Ford Barbara Fraser
   John Kochmar Suresh Konda John Richael Derek Simmel Networked Systems
   Survivability Program Lisa Cunningham Computer Sciences Corporation
   August 1997 Security Improvement Module CMU/SEI-SIM-002 Security
   Improvement Module CMU/SEI-SIM-002 August 1997 Security for a Public
   Web Site Robert Firth Gary Ford Barbara Fraser John Kochmar Suresh
   Konda John Richael Derek Simmel Networked Systems Survivability Program
   Lisa Cunningham Computer Sciences Corporation Unlimited distribution
   subject to the copyright. Software Engineering Institute Carnegie
   Mellon University Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213 This report was
   prepared for the SEI Joint Program Office HQ ESC/AXS 5 Eglin Street
   Hanscom AFB, MA 01731-2116 The ideas and findings in this report should
   not be construed as an official DoD position. It is published in the
   interest of scientific and technical information exchange. FOR THE
   COMMANDER (signature on file) Thomas R. Miller, Lt Col, USAF SEI Joint
   Program Office This work is sponsored by the U.S. Department of
   Defense. Copyright © 9/22/97 by Carnegie Mellon University. Permission
   to reproduce this document and to prepare derivative works from this
   document for internal use is granted, provided the copyright and "No
   Warranty" statements are included with all reproductions and derivative
   works. Requests for permission to reproduce this document or to prepare
   derivative works of this document for external and commercial use
   should be addressed to the SEI Licensing Agent. NO WARRANTY THIS
   CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY AND SOFTWARE ENGINEERING INSTITUTE MATERIAL
   IS FURNISHED ON AN "AS-IS" BASIS. CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY MAKES NO
   WARRAN- TIES OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, AS TO ANY MATTER
   INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, WARRANTY OF FITNESS FOR PURPOSE OR
   MERCHANTABILITY, EXCLUSIVITY, OR RESULTS OBTAINED FROM USE OF THE
   MATERIAL. CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DOES NOT MAKE ANY WARRANTY OF ANY
   KIND WITH RESPECT TO FREEDOM FROM PATENT, TRADEMARK, OR COPYRIGHT
   INFRINGEMENT. This work was created in the performance of Federal
   Government Contract Number F19628-95-C-0003 with Carnegie Mellon
   University for the operation of the Software Engineering Institute, a
   federally funded research and development center. The Government of the
   United States has a royalty-free government-purpose license to use,
   duplicate, or disclose the work, in whole or in part and in any manner,
   and to have or permit others to do so, for government purposes pursuant
   to the copyright license under the clause at 52.227-7013. This document
   is available through Asset Source for Software Engineering Technology
   (ASSET): 1350 Earl L. Core Road; PO Box 3305; Morgantown, West Virginia
   26505 / Phone:-(304) 284-9000 / FAX-(304) 284- 9001 World Wide Web:
   http://www.asset.com / e-mail: sei@asset.com Copies of this document
   are available through the National Technical Information Service
   (NTIS). For informa- tion on ordering, please contact NTIS directly:
   National Technical Information Service, U.S. Department of Commerce,
   Springfield, VA 22161. Phone-(703) 487-4600. This document is also
   available through the Defense Technical Information Center (DTIC). DTIC
   provides access to and transfer of scientific and technical information
   for DoD personnel, DoD contractors and potential contrac- tors, and
   other U.S. Government agency personnel and their contractors. To obtain
   a copy, please contact DTIC directly: Defense Technical Information
   Center / Attn: BRR / 8725 John J. Kingman Road / Suite 0944 / Ft. Bel-
   voir, VA 22060-6218 / Phone-(703) 767-8274 or toll-free in the
   U.S.-1-800 225-3842. Use of any trademarks in this report is not
   intended in any way to infringe on the rights of the trademark holder.
   Table of Contents Preface iii Security for a Public Web Site 1 1.
   Include explicit security requirements when selecting server and host
   technologies. 5 2. Isolate the Web server from your organization's
   internal network. 9 3. Maintain the authoritative copy of your Web site
   content on a more secure host. 11 4. Offer only essential network
   services and operating system services on the server host machine. 13
   5. Configure the Web server to enhance security. 15 6. Consider the
   security implications when choosing external programs that the server
   can execute. 19 7. Administer the Web server in a secure manner. 21 8.
   Look for unexpected changes to directories and files. 23 9. Inspect
   your system and network logs. 27 i ii Preface This document is one of a
   new series of publications of the Software Engineer- ing Institute at
   Carnegie Mellon University-security improvement modules. They are
   intended to provide concrete, practical guidance that will help orga-
   nizations improve the security of their networked computer systems.
   Module structure Each module addresses an important but relatively
   narrowly defined problem in network security. The first section of the
   module describes the problem and outlines a set of security improvement
   practices to help solve it. Each practice is a recommended way of
   performing common tasks related to the secure oper- ation of networked
   computer systems. The remaining sections of the module are detailed
   descriptions of the prac- tices. Each includes a rationale for the
   recommended actions and a step-by- step description of how to perform
   them. Intended audience The practices are written for system and
   network administrators within an organization. These are the people
   whose day to day activities include instal- lation, configuration, and
   maintenance of the computers and networks. Revised versions Network
   technologies continue to evolve rapidly, leading to both new solutions
   and new problems in security. We expect that modules and practices will
   need to be revised from time to time. To permit more timely publication
   of the most up-to-date versions, the modules and practices are also
   being published on the World Wide Web. At the end of each section of
   this document is the URL of its Web version. Implementation details How
   an organization adopts and implements the practices often depends on
   the specific networking and computing technologies it uses. For some
   prac- tices, technology-specific implementation details have been
   written and are being published on the World Wide Web. The Web version
   of each practice con- tains links to the implementation details. iii iv
   Security for a Public Web Site The World Wide Web is one of the most
   important ways for organizations to publish information. Unfortunately,
   if you are not careful in setting up and operating a public Web site,
   you leave yourself and your organization vulnera- ble to a variety of
   security problems. You could find yourself in an embarrass- ing
   situation because malicious intruders have changed the content of your
   Web pages. Public Web sites have also been the entry point for
   intrusions into organization's internal networks for the purpose of
   accessing confidential information. The practices recommended below are
   designed to help you pre- vent these and several other known security
   problems. Who should read these These practices are applicable to your
   organization if you intend to operate practices your own Web site to
   make information public to the entire Internet commu- nity. We assume
   that you have these security requirements for your Web site: * You want
   to maintain the integrity of the information intended to be pub-
   lished. * You want to prevent the use of the Web host1 as a staging
   area for intru- sions into your organization's network that could
   result in breaches of con- fidentiality, integrity, or availability of
   information resources. * You want to prevent the use of the Web host as
   a staging area for intrusions into external sites, which could result
   in your organization being held liable for damages. What these
   practices do These practices do not cover all aspects of using the Web
   in your organization. not cover In particular, they do not address 1.
   Throughout these practices, we use terms such as host and host machine
   to refer to the hardware and operating system that will support a Web
   site. The term server software refers to the application software that
   implements the http protocol, and the term server generally means the
   combined hardware, operating system, and server software.
   CMU/SEI-SIM-002 1 * security considerations related to Web client
   (browser) software * commercial transactions via the Web * special
   considerations for very large Web sites with multiple hosts *
   contracting for or offering Web-hosting services (such as that offered
   by a commercial Internet service provider) * other public information
   services, such as those based on the file transfer protocol (ftp)
   Security issues There are two main security issues related to the
   operation of a public Web site: 1. Improper configuration or operation
   of the Web server can result in the inadvertent disclosure of
   confidential information. This can include * information assets of your
   organization * information about the configuration of the server or
   network that could be exploited for subsequent attacks * information
   about who requested which documents from the server 2. The host used
   for your Web server might be compromised. That could allow intruders to
   * change the information stored on the Web server host machine,
   particu- larly the information you intend to publish * gain
   unauthorized access to resources elsewhere in your organization's
   computer network * launch attacks on external sites from your server
   host machine, thus concealing the intruders' identities, and perhaps
   making your organiza- tion liable for damages Security improvement To
   improve the security of your public Web site, we recommend a three-step
   approach approach. It requires implementing security practices in these
   areas: 1. selecting server and host technology 2. configuring server
   software and the underlying host technology 3. operating the server In
   addition, we recommend that you establish security policies that
   mandate appropriate practices for network administrators and users. For
   example, you may want to establish a policy that requires system and
   network administra- tors to adopt and implement several of the
   practices described in this recom- mendation. 2 CMU/SEI-SIM-002 Summary
   of Area Recommended Practice recommended practices Selecting 1. Include
   explicit security requirements when selecting server server and host
   technologies. technology Configuring 2. Isolate the Web server from
   your organization's server internal network. technology 3. Maintain the
   authoritative copy of your Web site content on a more secure host. 4.
   Offer only essential network services and operating system services on
   the server host machine. 5. Configure the Web server to enhance
   security. 6. Consider the security implications when choosing external
   programs that the server can execute. Operating the 7. Administer the
   Web server in a secure manner. server 8. Look for unexpected changes to
   directories and files. 9. Inspect your system and network logs.
   Abbreviations used in DNS domain name service these practices cgi, CGI
   common gateway interface ftp file transfer protocol http hypertext
   transfer protocol IP Internet protocol NIS Network Information System
   TCP/IP Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol URL uniform
   resource locator Where to find updates The latest version of this
   module is available on the Web at URL
   http://www.cert.org/security-improvement/modules/m02.html
   CMU/SEI-SIM-002 3 4 CMU/SEI-SIM-002 1 Include explicit security
   requirements when selecting server and host technologies. It is common
   to consider factors such as functionality, price, performance, and
   capacity when selecting computing technology. When you specify the
   require- ments for selecting server technologies for your organization
   (including the host machine hardware, operating system, and server
   software), you should also include security requirements. Why this is
   important There are many vendors of server technologies, whose products
   vary with respect to security capabilities. Many known and frequently
   exploited vulner- abilities of network servers apply only to certain
   technologies. If you consider security requirements when selecting
   server technologies, you may be able to choose technologies with fewer
   vulnerabilities or better security-related fea- tures, which would
   permit you to have a substantially more secure site. This makes the
   long-term operation of your site more economical, because you can
   reduce the costs associated with intrusions and recovery. Background
   information The selection of Web server technology requires you to make
   tradeoffs among the competing requirements. To do this, you must first
   understand your orga- nization's requirements. For a Web server, the
   significant performance requirements are the response time (typically
   measured in terms of the number of connections per second that the
   server will allow) and throughput (typically measured in terms of the
   number of bytes per second of data that can be delivered to the
   network). Typical functionality requirements include the ability to
   serve static Web pages and various forms of dynamic pages, the ability
   to receive and process user information (such as that supplied through
   forms), and the ability to pro- vide a site search service. In
   addition, you may want the ability to administer the server software
   and the host system from another host on your network. Security
   requirements typically include the following: * the lack of
   vulnerability to known forms of attack against Web server hosts * the
   ability to restrict administrative activities to authorized users only
   * the ability to deny access to information on the server other than
   that intended to be published * the ability to disable unnecessary
   network services that may be built into the operating system or server
   software CMU/SEI-SIM-002 5 * the ability to control access to various
   forms of external executable pro- grams (such as cgi scripts and server
   plug-ins) * the ability to log appropriate Web server activities for
   purposes of detecting intrusions and attempted intrusions How to do it
   ® Identify your functionality and performance requirements. ® Review
   the recommended practices that address the configuration and opera-
   tion of the server technology. Note the kinds of security problems that
   those practices are intended to help you avoid. ® Where available, look
   at the sample implementations of those practices. Note whether the
   implementations for a particular technology are simple or complex,
   inexpensive or costly. ® Based on your organization's security needs,
   identify specific security-related features that you want in the server
   technology you will be selecting. ® Check with available sources of
   incident data to help determine the likelihood of particular kinds of
   incidents and the vulnerabilities of specific servers. ® Identify
   candidate technologies that meet your functionality, performance, and
   security requirements. ® Estimate the differences in operating costs of
   competing technologies, including the business costs of potential
   security incidents. ® Select the technology that you believe offers the
   best balance of functionality, performance, security, and overall cost.
   Policy considerations Your organization's networked systems security
   policy should: * Require a security evaluation as part of your
   computing and network tech- nology selection procedures. In addition,
   we recommend that your organization's purchasing guidelines mandate the
   specification of security requirements for all computing and net- work
   technologies. Other information CERT®1 advisories and summaries2 from
   time to time include information on new vulnerabilities in Web server
   software and the operating systems under which they operate. 1.
   Registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. 2. See
   http://www.cert.org and ftp://info.cert.org/pub/cert_advisories/ . 6
   CMU/SEI-SIM-002 Where to find updates The latest version of this
   practice, plus implementation details for selected technologies, is
   available on the Web at URL
   http://www.cert.org/security-improvement/practices/p009.html
   CMU/SEI-SIM-002 7 8 CMU/SEI-SIM-002 2 Isolate the Web server from your
   organization's internal network. You usually have several choices of
   where to place a public Web server on your organization's network. We
   recommend that it be placed on a separate subnet- work, so that traffic
   between the Internet and the server does not traverse any part of your
   private internal network and no internal network traffic is visible to
   the server. Why this is important A public Web server host is a
   computer that is meant for public access. This means that there will be
   many people who will access the host (and its stored information) from
   locations all over the world. Regardless of how well the host computer
   and its application software are configured, there is always the chance
   that someone will discover a new vulnerability, exploit it, and gain
   unintended access to the Web server host (e.g., user account or
   privileged account on a host with a multiuser operating system). If
   that happens, you need to prevent these events: * The intruder is able
   to observe or capture network traffic that is flowing between internal
   hosts. Such traffic might include authentication informa- tion,
   proprietary business information, personnel data, and many other kinds
   of sensitive data. * The intruder is able to get to internal hosts, or
   to obtain detailed informa- tion about them. To guard against these two
   threats, the server host must be isolated from the internal network and
   its traffic. How to do it ® Place the host on a subnet isolated from
   the main internal network. The recommended configuration is shown in
   the Figure 1. ® Use filters or a firewall to restrict traffic from the
   Web server host to the internal network. ® Turn off source routing at
   the router so that the Web server host cannot be used to forward
   packets to hosts in the internal network. CMU/SEI-SIM-002 9 Internet
   Router/Firewall Workstations Public Web Traffic Subnet Web Content
   Internal Net Web Server Figure 1: Network structure for the Web server
   Policy considerations Your organization's networked systems security
   policy should * Require the placement of public servers on subnets
   separate from internal networks. * Require that routers be configured
   to restrict traffic from public servers to internal networks. Other
   information There are other approaches that will address the threats
   mentioned above, but they are not recommended. For example, we might
   place the Web server on the internal network and then use smart hubs to
   separate it from internal network traffic. We might also choose to
   encrypt all internal traffic, so that even if the server is
   compromised, any traffic it sees will not be readable. But neither of
   these methods prevents traffic from the Web server host to other hosts
   on the internal network. Where to find updates The latest version of
   this practice, plus implementation details for selected technologies,
   is available on the Web at URL
   http://www.cert.org/security-improvement/practices/p010.html 10
   CMU/SEI-SIM-002 3 Maintain the authoritative copy of your Web site
   content on a more secure host. If the integrity of the public
   information on your server is ever compromised, you need an
   authoritative copy from which to restore it. We recommend that the
   authoritative (genuine and correct) copy of that information be kept on
   a host separate from and more secure than the Web server host (e.g.,
   one that is located on an internal subnet inside your network
   firewall). Why this is important The authoritative copy of public
   information stored on a more secure host is less likely to be
   compromised by a malicious intruder, and it is therefore more likely to
   be available whenever needed to restore the public copy. This approach
   can also simplify some administrative tasks. For example, it makes it
   unnecessary to perform file backups on the public server (for security
   reasons, the backup files would need to be kept on a separate host
   anyway). It also enables maintenance and creation of Web site content
   to be contained on the internal subnet. How to do it ® The goal is that
   the authoritative copy be inaccessible to all unauthorized users
   (internal or external). You can choose any implementation of this
   practice that achieves that goal. Typically, the authoritative copy is
   kept on a host accessible to the Web site administrator, and perhaps
   also to the people in your organization who are responsible for the
   creation and maintenance of Web content. This is likely to be on your
   organization's internal network. Policy considerations Your
   organization's networked systems security policy should * Require that
   information on public servers has authoritative copies stored on more
   secure hosts. Where to find updates The latest version of this
   practice, plus implementation details for selected technologies, is
   available on the Web at URL
   http://www.cert.org/security-improvement/practices/p011.html
   CMU/SEI-SIM-002 11 12 CMU/SEI-SIM-002 4 Offer only essential network
   services and operating system services on the server host machine.
   Ideally, the Web server should be on a dedicated, single-purpose host.
   Many modern computers are configured "out of the box" to provide a
   wider set of ser- vices and applications than strictly required to
   provide Web services. Hence, explicit configuration may be required to
   eliminate or disable unnecessary ser- vices and applications. Why this
   is important Offering only the essential network services on a
   particular host can enhance your network security in several ways: *
   Other services cannot be used to attack the host and impair or remove
   desired Web services. * Different services may be administered by
   different individuals. By isolat- ing services (resulting in each host
   and service having a single administra- tor), you will minimize the
   possibility of conflicts between the administrators. * The host can be
   configured to better suit the requirements of the particular service
   being provided. Different services might require different hardware and
   software configurations, which could lead to needless vulnerabilities
   or service restrictions. * By reducing services, the number of logs and
   log entries is reduced so detecting anomalous behavior becomes easier.
   How to do it The suggested configuration principle is "deny first, then
   allow." That is, turn off as many services and applications as possible
   and then, selectively, turn on those that are essential. ® Determine
   the functions that you intend to support with your Web server (e. g.,
   cgi scripts). The number of services that are required on the selected
   host depends on the functions that you intend to provide on that host.
   This functionality could be for the Web, other services hosted on this
   computer, and the arrangements made for development and maintenance of
   the operating system and applica- tions. Determine the configuration of
   the host with respect to * file systems (e. g., whether any file
   servers will be used by this host) * system maintenance (e. g., with
   multiuser systems, whether all mainte- nance will be done only via the
   console or remotely) CMU/SEI-SIM-002 13 * server maintenance (e. g., if
   all the maintenance will be done on another host and only the resulting
   files downloaded to this host, there is no need to provide any
   compilers or editors on this host) * network configuration (DNS vs.
   NIS) ® If there are alternative ways of providing the same function,
   select the more secure way. For example, on UNIX systems, remote system
   maintenance (i.e., not from the console) can be provided using remote
   shell (rsh) or secure shell (ssh) capabil- ities; of the two, ssh is
   more secure. ® Once the minimal set of services and applications has
   been determined, ensure that only those in the set are available on the
   host. Either do not install unnecessary services or turn them off and
   remove the corresponding files from the host. Be particularly careful
   with server pro- grams-many of them can provide multiple services and
   will have to be config- ured to disable unneeded services. See the
   practice "Configure the Web server to enhance security" on page 15 for
   additional information. ® After all configuration choices have been
   made, create and record crypto- graphic checksums or other
   integrity-checking baseline information for your critical system
   software. Policy considerations Your organization's networked systems
   security policy should * Require that public servers be configured to
   offer only essential services. Other information There can be different
   configurations of the server depending on the other fea- tures that the
   selected host operating system or environment provide. For example,
   certain operating systems provide extensive access control mecha- nisms
   that minimize or even avoid the possibility of unauthorized access at
   relatively fine levels of granularity. Where to find updates The latest
   version of this practice, plus implementation details for selected
   technologies, is available on the Web at URL
   http://www.cert.org/security-improvement/practices/p012.html 14
   CMU/SEI-SIM-002 5 Configure the Web server to enhance security. When
   you install server software, you are normally presented with a number
   of choices for configuration options or preferences. Those choices
   should be made carefully to balance your security and operational
   requirements. Also, the server host operating system may provide access
   controls for infor- mation stored on that host. This is particularly
   common on systems that sup- port multiple simultaneous users. You
   should take advantage of these controls to help prevent the accessing
   and disclosure of information that is not intended to be published. Why
   this is important The requirements for public sites vary from one
   organization to another, so vendors of server software provide for
   configuring the software differently at each site. The default
   configuration settings may be optimized for a "typical" site, as
   imagined by the vendor, and may be based mostly on performance
   requirements or ease of installation. Usually, security requirements
   will necessitate a different configuration. Failure to change from the
   default con- figuration can reduce the security of your site. A server
   host typically stores not only information intended for publication,
   but also a variety of other information that should not be published.
   This will normally include the server's log files as well as systems
   and applications soft- ware. On multiuser systems, it may include
   highly confidential information such as password files. If you are
   careful to use the access controls provided by the operating system on
   the server host machine, you can reduce the likeli- hood of inadvertent
   disclosure or corruption of that information. How to do it ® Configure
   the server's logging capability. The server log file records
   information about the server's behavior in response to each request.
   Analysis of the log can provide both business information (such as
   which Web pages are most popular) and security information.1 There are
   many log file analysis tools available, most of which are designed to
   oper- ate on a file in either of the two standard log formats (called
   "Common Log Format" and "Extended Common Log Format"). You should
   configure your server to create its log file in one of these formats.
   The Common Log Format includes the name or IP address of the requesting
   1. The practice "Inspect your system and network logs." on page 27
   discusses using the log file to look for signs of attempted intrusions.
   CMU/SEI-SIM-002 15 host, the user name supplied for access of
   password-protected pages, the data and time of the request, the http
   method of the request ("GET" or "POST"), the file requested, the http
   status returned by the server, and the number of bytes transferred. The
   Extended Common Log Format also includes the URL loaded by the
   requesting client immediately prior to the current request to your
   server, and the name of the client software of the requestor. ®
   Configure auxiliary network services of the server. Some Web servers
   also provide other network services, such as serving files using the
   file transfer protocol (ftp) or gopher protocol, dispatching electronic
   mail, or accepting file uploads from Web clients. We recommend that all
   such services be disabled on the Web server, unless you have a
   compelling reason to use them. ® Configure external programs executable
   by the server. Nearly all Web servers provide for the execution of
   external programs as a result of certain kinds of requests. These
   programs include common gateway interface (cgi) scripts, server
   plug-ins, security plug-ins, server applets, and perhaps others
   (depending on the particular server). The default configuration for
   your server is likely to have many such programs enabled. Initially,
   you should disable all these auxiliary programs and then follow the
   procedures outlined in the practice "Offer only essential network
   services and operating system services on the server host machine." on
   page 13 to enable only essential programs. ® Configure the server for
   local and/or remote administration. You should administer your Web site
   from the Web host console. Doing so eliminates the need for network
   traffic between the Web server (outside the firewall) and the
   administrator's workstation (inside the firewall). However, there are
   many situations where this is not feasible, such as in orga- nizations
   where the Web server is not easily accessible by the administrator.
   When you must do remote administration, choose a method that satisfies
   these requirements: * The server host uses a strong method to
   authenticate the identity of the user who is initiating administrative
   processes. In particular, avoid authen- tication methods that require
   or allow the transmission of a password in clear text, unless it is a
   one-time password. * The server host will allow remote administration
   from only one particular host. * Network packets travelling between the
   administrator's host machine and the server would not, if intercepted,
   provide an intruder with information that would allow subsequent access
   to either the server or your organiza- tion's internal network. ®
   Determine what access controls are provided by the operating system of
   your host machine. In particular, determine if you can limit file
   access of the Web services' pro- cesses. Those processes should be
   given read-only access to some files and no 16 CMU/SEI-SIM-002 access
   to other files. If these capabilities are not available on your host
   operat- ing system, you can skip the next step. ® Use the file access
   controls to achieve the following: * Public Web content files are
   readable but can't be written to by the pro- cesses that implement the
   Web service. * The directories where that Web content is stored can't
   be written to by the server processes. * Public Web content files can
   be written to only by the processes that allow for Web server
   administration. * Web server log files can be written to by the server
   processes, but they can- not be read or served as Web content. * Web
   server log files are readable only by administration processes. * Any
   temporary files created by Web server processes (such as those that
   might be needed in the creation of dynamic Web pages) are limited to a
   par- ticular subdirectory. ® Disable the serving of file directory
   listings. The Web protocol (http) specifies that a URL ending in a
   slash character is treated as a request for a listing of the files in a
   directory. As a general rule, you should not allow your server to
   respond to such requests, even if all the files in the directory are
   intended to be public. Such requests may indicate an attempt to locate
   information by means other than that designed for your Web site. Users
   may resort to this if they are hav- ing difficulty navigating through
   your site or if a link appears to be broken. Intruders may use this
   method in an attempt to locate information hidden by your Web site's
   interface. You may want to look for this kind of request in the server
   log files. ® Configure the server so it cannot serve files that are
   outside the specified file directory tree. This may be a configuration
   choice in the server software itself, or it may be a choice in how the
   server process is seen by the operating system. You should also take
   care to avoid the use of links or aliases in your file direc- tory tree
   that point to files elsewhere on your server host or your network file
   system. ® Make sure that the server cannot serve any of its own log
   files or configuration files as if they were public Web content files.
   Log files should be stored on the server host, rather than be sent to
   another host on your internal network. (However, you may want to keep
   offline archived copies of Web log files.) Similarly, server
   configuration or preference files should also be kept on the server
   host. In all cases, using both server configuration options and
   operating system access controls as appropriate, make sure that these
   files cannot be sent to CMU/SEI-SIM-002 17 users, even if those users
   know the names (URLs) of those files. If possible, place these files
   outside the public data directory tree. ® After all configuration
   choices have been made, create and record crypto- graphic checksums or
   other integrity-checking baseline information for your server software.
   Policy considerations Your organization's networked systems security
   policy should * Require that public servers be configured to enhance
   security. Where to find updates The latest version of this practice,
   plus implementation details for selected technologies, is available on
   the Web at URL
   http://www.cert.org/security-improvement/practices/p017.html 18
   CMU/SEI-SIM-002 6 Consider the security implications when choosing
   external programs that the server can execute. In its most basic form,
   a Web server listens for a request and transmits the contents of the
   requested file over the network. However, several mechanisms have been
   created that increase the functionality of a Web server by allowing it
   to invoke other programs to operate on user-supplied data, resulting in
   delivery of specialized information to the user. Examples of these
   mechanisms are the common gateway interface (cgi) and server plug-ins.
   A Web server may also be able to execute a server applet, invoke a
   security plug-in, or upload files from the user's host. You should
   consider security issues when making the decision to use such external
   programs. Why this is important All these forms of external programs
   can be added to the server at any time without having to modify the
   server code itself. External programs are widely available from many
   different sources, and they can offer valuable functional- ity for your
   public Web service. However, as a Web server administrator, you are
   likely to install a particular set of programs that results in a unique
   con- figuration-one that was not tested by the developers of the server
   software or the external programs. Care must be taken in acquiring,
   installing, and operating these external pro- grams. Otherwise,
   security vulnerabilities can be introduced, either as an inherent
   problem with a poorly written program or as an unexpected side effect
   of the installation of two or more programs. For example, many success-
   ful attacks on Web sites have exploited known vulnerabilities in
   commonly available cgi programs. How to do it ® When you need a
   particular functionality for your Web site, consider all the available
   ways of providing it. If you determine that an auxiliary executable
   program is appropriate, look for more than one source of programs that
   would supply the needed functionality. To the extent possible, assess
   the trustworthiness of the various sources of the programs you are
   considering. For example, you should have the least confi- dence in
   software from an unknown author and downloaded from an Internet source
   you do not know. If there are several programs that provide the needed
   functionality, choose one from a trustworthy source. CMU/SEI-SIM-002 19
   ® Verify that the copy of the program that you get (whatever the
   source) is an authentic copy. Typically, you will need to use
   cryptographic checksums, digital signatures, or similar technologies. ®
   Make sure that you understand all the functionality that a program
   provides. In particular, make sure that in addition to the capability
   you want, it does not include other capabilities you don't want. Some
   kinds of programs, especially cgi scripts, are commonly distributed in
   source code form. If you have any doubts about the trustworthiness of
   the source or the authenticity of the code, submit the code to an
   appropriate tech- nical review by knowledgeable people in your
   organization (or outside, if nec- essary). ® Consult published
   information on security vulnerabilities to determine if any are known
   for your chosen program. ® Install the program on a test machine and
   test it to your own satisfaction. ® After installing the program,
   create new checksums or other integrity-checking baseline information
   for your server software. ® Pay particular attention to your server
   behavior and log files in the period immediately after you install the
   new program. Policy considerations Your organization's networked
   systems security policy should: * Require a security evaluation as part
   of your computing and network tech- nology selection procedures. Other
   information CERT advisories and summaries1 may from time to time
   include information on new vulnerabilities in Web server software.
   Where to find updates The latest version of this practice, plus
   implementation details for selected technologies, is available on the
   Web at URL http://www.cert.org/security-improvement/practices/p015.html
   1. See http://www.cert.org and ftp://info.cert.org/pub/cert_advisories/
   . 20 CMU/SEI-SIM-002 7 Administer the Web server in a secure manner.
   Administration of a Web server includes such tasks as transferring new
   con- tent to the server, examining the server logs, installing new
   external pro- grams, and otherwise changing the server configuration.
   These tasks usually can be performed either from the server console or
   from a separate host via a network connection. In either case, be sure
   to perform the tasks in a manner that does not offer opportunities for
   intruders to breach the security of the server. Why this is important
   Although the normal operational state of your server may be secure,
   during the performance of administrative tasks, your server may be in a
   vulnerable transient state. This is especially true if you choose to
   administer the server from a remote host, because this requires that
   you open a network connection through the firewall. Such a connection
   may be vulnerable to some forms of attack, and it may open the door to
   anyone on the Internet being able to "administer" your server. The
   result could be the loss of integrity of your Web content, an intruder
   gaining access to resources on your internal network, or an intruder
   being able to use your server as an intermediate host for attacks on
   other internal or external hosts. How to do it ® If you choose to
   administer the server from a remote host, you need to take pre-
   cautions to do it in a secure manner. Choose a method that satisfies
   these requirements: * The server host uses a strong method to
   authenticate the identity of the user who is initiating the
   administrative processes. In particular, avoid authentication methods
   that require the transmission of a password in clear text, unless it is
   a one-time password. * The server host will allow administration from
   only one particular host. Authenticate the host in a manner that does
   not depend on network- resolved information such as IP addresses or DNS
   names, because intrud- ers can falsify such information. * Network
   packets travelling between the administrator's host machine and the
   server would not, if intercepted, provide an intruder with information
   that would allow subsequent access to either the server or your
   organiza- tion's internal network. CMU/SEI-SIM-002 21 ® If it is
   feasible for your Web site, use a movable storage medium to transfer
   Web content from the authoritative copy to the public server. This
   could include a writable CD-ROM, diskette, hard disk cartridge, or
   tape. The advantage of this procedure is that it does not require a
   network connec- tion through your firewall. During the transfer, you
   may need to stop or disable your server. Some servers can be configured
   to continue operating, but to send a "Service temporarily unavailable"
   message in response to all requests. Do not use a transfer method that
   mounts a file system from a host inside the firewall on the Web server
   host using NFS. There are inherent problems in the NFS protocol that
   could make that internal host vulnerable to attack. ® If you choose to
   inspect the server log files from a host other than the server, use a
   secure method of transferring the logs to that host. Movable storage
   media and file encryption are two suitable methods. ® After making any
   changes in server configuration or site content, create new
   cryptographic checksums or other integrity-checking baseline
   information for your server. Policy considerations Your organization's
   networked systems security policy should: * Require the use of secure
   procedures for administration of the public Web site. Other information
   There are two times when you need to update your Web server content: *
   at a scheduled time, which may be monthly, weekly, daily, or hourly,
   depending on the nature of the material being published by your
   organiza- tion; * immediately after you detect any breach of integrity
   of the content on the public server. Where to find updates The latest
   version of this practice, plus implementation details for selected
   technologies, is available on the Web at URL
   http://www.cert.org/security-improvement/practices/p016.html 22
   CMU/SEI-SIM-002 8 Look for unexpected changes to directories and files.
   The file systems in your network environment contain a variety of
   software and data files. Unexpected changes in directories and files,
   especially those to which access is normally restricted, may be an
   indication that an intrusion has occurred. Changes may include
   modifying, creating, or deleting directories and files. What makes such
   changes unexpected may depend on who changed them and where, when, and
   how the changes were made. Why this is important Intruders often
   substitute, modify, and damage files on systems to which they have
   gained access. To hide their presence on your systems, it is common for
   intruders to replace system programs with substitutes that perform the
   same functions but exclude information that could reveal their illicit
   activities. They also often modify system log files to remove traces of
   their activities. By mask- ing their presence on a compromised system,
   intruders prolong the time they have to use that system for their
   purposes. In several notable cases, the pres- ence of intruders on
   compromised systems was not discovered until many months after the
   initial intrusion occurred. Intruders may also create new files on your
   systems. For example, they may install backdoor programs or tools used
   to gain privileged access on the sys- tem. Intruders also make use of
   the disk space on compromised systems to store their tools and
   contraband. Private data files and files containing mission-critical
   information are com- mon targets of modification or corruption by
   intruders. Information about your organization that is accessible to
   the public or to subscribers via public networks and the Internet is
   also a common target. Several documented cases exist of prominent
   organizations that have had their Web sites modified to include
   offensive content and other erroneous information. How to do it ®
   Establish priorities and schedules. Examine the files on your system
   and prioritize the frequency with which they should be checked. The
   more mission- or security-critical the file, the more fre- quent the
   checking should be. ® Maintain authoritative reference data for
   critical files and directories. For each file and directory, the
   authoritative reference data you maintain should provide enough
   information for you to be able to identify changes to CMU/SEI-SIM-002
   23 * location in the file system * alternate paths to it, via links,
   aliases, or shortcuts * contents of files, entries in directories *
   exact size, and if possible, file system units allocated * time and
   date indicating when the file or directory was created and last
   modified * ownership and access permission settings, including
   execution privilege settings for software Use robust cryptographic
   checksum technologies to generate a checksum for each file. Keep
   authoritative copies of files and checksums on write-protected or
   read-only media stored in a physically secure location. ® Verify the
   integrity of directories and files according to your established sched-
   ule. Compare the attributes and contents of files and directories to
   the authorita- tive reference (either complete copies or cryptographic
   checksums). Identify any files and directories whose contents or other
   attributes have changed. Always access authoritative reference
   information directly from its secured, read-only media. Never transmit
   authoritative reference information over unsecured network connections.
   ® Identify any missing files or directories. ® Identify any new files
   and directories. Pay special attention to any new program files and
   their associated execution privilege settings. ® Investigate any
   unexpected changes among those you have identified. If any changes
   cannot be attributed to authorized activity, initiate your intru-
   sion-response procedures immediately. Report the incident to your
   organization's designated security point of contact. Policy
   considerations Your organization's networked systems security policy
   should * Define the responsibilities and authority of systems
   administrators and security personnel to examine file systems on a
   regular basis for unex- pected changes. Users should be told about such
   authority and examina- tion. * Require users to report any unexpected
   changes to their software and data files to system administrators or
   your organization's designated security point of contact. 24
   CMU/SEI-SIM-002 Other information As authorized and expected changes
   are made to files and directories, you will need to perform your
   organization's procedures for securely updating your authoritative
   reference data. Some kinds of important files are expected to change
   frequently (perhaps sev- eral times per second); these include system
   log files, transaction log files, and database tables. In general, the
   techniques described above will not be partic- ularly useful in
   distinguishing normal changes to such files from those that might have
   been caused by intruders. Techniques based on transaction audit- ing
   are more useful in these cases. Where to find updates The latest
   version of this practice, plus implementation details for selected
   technologies, is available on the Web at URL
   http://www.cert.org/security-improvement/practices/p002.html
   CMU/SEI-SIM-002 25 26 CMU/SEI-SIM-002 9 Inspect your system and network
   logs. Frequently, intruders leave traces of their actions in system log
   files. Hence, checking system and network log files periodically is one
   way to detect intru- sions. Why this is important Logs may contain
   evidence of unusual and unexpected activities that have occurred on the
   system or network. Such log entries may indicate that some- one has
   compromised or tried to compromise the system. By looking at log files
   on a regular basis, you may be able to identify attempted or successful
   intru- sions soon after they occur and initiate the proper
   damage-prevention or con- tainment procedures. Background information
   Log files vary depending on the operating system, application software
   run- ning on the system, and logging configuration you have chosen.
   Multiuser operating systems often provide more extensive logging
   capabilities than do single-user operating systems. Table 1 describes
   information typically con- tained in logs. Type of Log Information
   Contained in the Log user activity * login activity * changes in user
   identity * file accesses by the user * authorization information *
   authentication information process activity * commands run by users *
   running-process information including program name, user, start and
   stop times, and execution parameters system activity * restarts and
   shutdowns of the system * administrative logins network * details
   (when, where, what kind) of connections connections attempted or
   established with the system * details of connections established from
   the system network traffic * records of all network traffic
   transactions monitoring CMU/SEI-SIM-002 27 Type of Log Information
   Contained in the Log web server * remote hostname or IP address
   activity * date and time of the request * request * response code
   indicating whether the request was suc- cessful or not * remote login
   name of the user (if available) * username which the user has
   authenticated himself under (if available) How to do it ® Periodically
   inspect each type of log file. We recommend that each log file be
   inspected at least daily. Look for evidence of unusual or unexpected
   activity. One benefit of periodic inspections is that, over time, you
   will become increasingly familiar with the signs of usual and expected
   activity. This will make it easier to recognize the unusual and
   unexpected. The table below summarizes unusual or unexpected activities
   that may be reported in each log type. For operating systems that
   support different levels of user privilege, be sure to look for unusual
   activity by users at all levels. Type of Log Unusual or Unexpected
   Activities user activity * repeated failed login attempts * logins from
   unexpected locations * logins at unusual times of day * unusual
   attempts to change user identity * unusual processes run by users *
   unauthorized attempts to access restricted files process activity *
   processes that are run at unexpected times * processes that have
   terminated prematurely * unusual processes (i.e., those not due to
   normal, autho- rized activities) system activity * unexpected shutdowns
   * unexpected reboots network * connections to or from unusual locations
   connections * repeated failed connection attempts and their origina-
   tion and destination addresses and ports * connections made at unusual
   times * unexpected network traffic (i.e., contrary to your fire- wall
   configuration or unexpected traffic volume) 28 CMU/SEI-SIM-002 Type of
   Log Unusual or Unexpected Activities network traffic * sweeps of your
   network address space for various ser- monitoring vices, indicating
   attempts to identify hosts on your net- work and the services they run
   * repeated half-open connections (may signify IP spoof- ing attempts,
   or denial of service activity) * successive attempts to connect to
   unusual services on your network's hosts * transactions originating
   outside your network with destinations also outside your network
   (signifying traf- fic that should not be traversing your network) *
   sequential (attempted) connections to specific services signifying
   someone trying to run network-probing tools against your networked
   systems web server * retrievals of information not expected to be
   available activity (e.g., directory listings, other files in the
   operating sys- tem) * repeated attempts to misuse the server (these may
   indicate someone trying to compromise your site) * flooding activities
   that could cause a denial of service problem (note the remote hostname
   or IP address) ® Document any unusual entries that you discover. Over
   time, you may see recurring kinds of unusual log file entries.
   Maintain- ing records of such entries and what you determined to be
   their causes will help you and others to understand new occurrences
   more quickly and accu- rately. ® Investigate each documented
   abnormality. Ask yourself questions such as * Can it be explained by
   the activities of an authorized user? (e.g., the user really was in
   Cairo last week and connected to the network) * Can it be explained by
   known system activity? (e.g., there was a power out- age that caused
   the system to reboot) * Can it be explained by authorized changes to
   programs? (e.g., the mail log showed abnormal behavior because the
   system programmer made a mis- take when the software was modified) ®
   Report all confirmed evidences of intrusion (or attempted intrusion) to
   your organization's internal security point of contact. ® Read security
   bulletins from trustworthy sources (e.g., CERT® advisories and
   summaries1) and other security publications regularly. This can
   increase your understanding of current intruder activities and meth-
   ods, and you can use this information to improve what you look for in
   log files. 1. See http://www.cert.org and
   ftp://info.cert.org/pub/cert_advisories/ . CMU/SEI-SIM-002 29 Policy
   considerations Your organization's networked systems security policy
   should: * Specify that log files be inspected on a regular basis by
   authorized person- nel, and that anomalies be recorded and reported to
   your organization's designated security point of contact. Other
   information If your site has large networks of systems with many log
   files to inspect, con- sider using tools that collect and consolidate
   log file information. Over time, you will learn what is normal for your
   environment. You should integrate this knowledge into your site's
   specific procedures for inspecting log files. Also, as you acquire,
   modify, or retire systems, your log review procedures may need to
   change. Make sure that your site's procedures are appropriate for your
   current technology. Where to find updates The latest version of this
   practice, plus implementation details for selected technologies, is
   available on the Web at URL
   http://www.cert.org/security-improvement/practices/p003.html 30
   CMU/SEI-SIM-002 p REPORT DOCUMENTATION PAGE Form Approved OMB No.
   0704-0188 Public reporting burden for this collection of information is
   estimated to average 1 hour per response, including the time for
   reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and
   maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the
   collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate
   or any other aspect of this collection of information, including
   suggestions for reducing this burden, to Washington Headquarters
   Services, Directorate for information Operations and Reports, 1215
   Jefferson Davis Highway, Suite 1204, Arlington, VA 22202-4302, and to
   the Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project
   (0704-0188), Washington, DC 20503. 1. AGENCY USE ONLY (leave blank) 2.
   REPORT DATE 3. REPORT TYPE AND DATES COVERED August 1997 Final 4. TITLE
   AND SUBTITLE 5. FUNDING NUMBERS Security for a Public Web Site C -
   F19628-95-C-0003 6. AUTHOR(S) Robert Firth, Gary Ford, Barbara Fraser,
   John Kochmar, Suresh Konda, John Richael, Derek Simmel, Lisa Cunningham
   7. PERFORMING ORGANIZATION NAME(S) AND ADDRESS(ES) 8. PERFORMING
   ORGANIZATION Software Engineering Institute REPORT NUMBER Carnegie
   Mellon University CMU/SEI-SIM-002 Pittsburgh, PA 15213 9.
   SPONSORING/MONITORING AGENCY NAME(S) AND ADDRESS(ES) 10.
   SPONSORING/MONITORING HQ ESC/AXS AGENCY REPORT NUMBER 5 Eglin Street
   Hanscom AFB, MA 01731-2116 11. SUPPLEMENTARY NOTES 12.a
   DISTRIBUTION/AVAILABILITY STATEMENT 12.b DISTRIBUTION CODE
   Unclassified/Unlimited, DTIC, NTIS 13. ABSTRACT (maximum 200 words) The
   module provides concrete, practical guidance to help organizations
   improve the security of their networked computer systems. It describes
   a set of practices that can increase the security of public web servers
   and the host organization's networks on which they reside. 14. SUBJECT
   TERMS 15. NUMBER OF PAGES network security, Web server, World Wide Web
   30 pp. 16. PRICE CODE 17. SECURITY CLASSIFICATION 18. SECURITY
   CLASSIFICATION 19. SECURITY CLASSIFICATION 20. LIMITATION OF ABSTRACT
   OF REPORT OF THIS PAGE OF ABSTRACT UNCLASSIFIED UNCLASSIFIED
   UNCLASSIFIED UL NSN 7540-01-280-5500 Standard Form 298 (Rev. 2-89)
   Prescribed by ANSI Std. Z39-18 298-102
