http://budget.house.gov/hearings/crippen012302.htm

                              black spacer bar
                                     CBO
                                  TESTIMONY
                              black spacer bar
                                Statement of
                               Dan L. Crippen
                                  Director
                      The Budget and Economic Outlook:
                           Fiscal Years 2003-2012
                                 before the
                           Committee on the Budget
                        U.S. House of Representatives
                              January 23, 2002

     This document is embargoed until 2:00 p.m. (EST),
     Wednesday, January 23, 2002. The contents may not
     be published, transmitted, or otherwise communicated
     by any print, broadcast, or electronic media before that time.

                                  CBO logo
                         CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE
                         SECOND AND D STREETS, S.W.
                           WASHINGTON, D.C., 20515
                              black spacer bar

   Mr. Chairman, Congressman Spratt, and Members of the Committee, I am
   pleased to be here today to discuss the current outlook for the budget
   and the economy. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) will release its
   report on that topic, The Budget and Economic Outlook: Fiscal Years
   2003-2012, on January 31. My testimony today will summarize that
   report.

   The economic recession and recent laws have combined to sharply reduce
   the budget surpluses projected a year ago. In January 2001, CBO
   projected that under the laws and policies then in force, the federal
   government would run surpluses in fiscal years 2002 through 2011
   totaling $5.6 trillion.1 In CBOs new projections, that cumulative
   surplus has fallen to $1.6 trilliona drop of $4 trillion (see Table 1
   on page 7). About 60 percent of that decline results from
   legislationthe tax cuts enacted in June and additional discretionary
   spendingand from its effect on the cost of paying interest on the
   federal debt. Changes in the economic outlook and various technical
   revisions since last January account for the other 40 percent of that
   decline.

   For both 2002 and 2003, CBO now projects that, instead of surpluses,
   the total budget will show small deficits, if current policies remain
   the same and the economy follows the path that CBO is forecasting. In
   2001, by contrast, the federal government recorded a surplus of $127
   billion (see Table 2).

   The deficit projected for this year$21 billionrepresents a change of
   more than $300 billion from last Januarys projection. Over 70 percent
   of that reduction results from the weak economy and related technical
   factors, which have considerably lowered the revenues expected for this
   year and next.

   For the current 10-year projection period, 2003 through 2012, CBO
   estimates a total surplus of nearly $2.3 trillion. However, almost half
   of that total comes from the surpluses projected for 2011 and 2012the
   last two years of the projection period and thus the most uncertain.
   The surpluses for those years also reflect the scheduled expiration in
   December 2010 of the tax cuts enacted last June.

   In CBOs new baseline, the off-budget accounts (which reflect the
   spending and revenues of Social Security and the Postal Service) run
   surpluses throughout the projection period. In the on-budget accounts,
   by contrast, surpluses do not reemerge until 2010.
   black spacer bar
   1. That projection appeared in Congressional Budget Office, The Budget
   and Economic Outlook: Fiscal Years 2002- 2011 (January 2001).
   black spacer bar

   CBOs baseline projections are intended to serve as a neutral benchmark
   against which to measure the effects of possible changes in tax and
   spending policies. They are constructed according to rules set forth in
   law and long-standing practices and are designed to project federal
   revenues and spending under the assumption that current laws and
   policies remain unchanged. Thus, these projections will almost
   certainly differ from actual budget totals: the economy may not follow
   the path that CBO projects, and lawmakers are likely to alter the
   nations tax and spending policies. Therefore, CBOs baseline should be
   viewed not as a forecast or prediction of future budgetary outcomes but
   simply as the agencys best judgment of how the economy and other
   factors will affect federal revenues and spending under current law.
   THE BUDGET OUTLOOK

   If current policies remain in place, CBO projects, the budget will be
   in deficit for the next two years. Those deficits are expected to be
   quite small, amounting to only 0.2 percent of the nations gross
   domestic product (GDP) in 2002 and 0.1 percent of GDP in 2003. After
   that, surpluses are projected to reemerge and gradually increase.

   For the five years from 2003 through 2007, CBO projects a cumulative
   surplus of $437 billion. That figure represents off-budget surpluses
   totaling more than $1 trillion offset by on-budget deficits that add up
   to $617 billion. For the 10-year period through 2012, the total budget
   surplus under current policies is projected to approach $2.3 trillion.
   Again, that amount is made up of surpluses in Social Security ($2.5
   trillion) offset by a cumulative on-budget deficit ($242 billion).
   Without the scheduled expiration of tax-cut provisions in 2010, the
   total 10-year budget surplus would fall to $1.6 trillion.

   The total surplus is projected to equal 1 percent of GDP by 2006 and
   grow to 3.7 percent of GDP by 2012. Estimates of large surpluses should
   be viewed cautiously, however, because future economic developments and
   estimating inaccuracies could change the outlook substantially. In
   addition, future legislative actions are almost certain to alter the
   budgetary picture.
   Changes in the Past Year

   As an illustration of how quickly the budget outlook can change, CBOs
   projection of the cumulative surplus for 2002 through 2011 has plunged
   by $4 trillion in just
   black spacer bar

   2. About 45 percent of that reduction results from changes made since
   CBO issued its updated Budget and Economic Outlook in August. The drop
   since August totals $1.8 trillion and is attributed, in relatively
   equal measures, to legislative, economic, and technical changes.

   3. That figure was calculated by assuming that the amount appropriated
   for the base year of 2001 would grow at specified rates of inflation.

                                      2

   black spacer bar

   one year (see Table 1).2 Some $2.4 trillion of that drop can be
   attributed to legislative actions. The legislation with the largest
   effect was the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of
   2001, enacted in June. That law is estimated to reduce surpluses by
   nearly $1.3 trillion over 10 years (not including associated
   debtservice costs).

   Additional discretionary spending since last January accounts for
   another $550 billion reduction in the projected surplus for the
   2002-2011 period. That amount stems from both regular and supplemental
   appropriations. CBOs January 2001 baseline assumed that discretionary
   budget authority for 2002 would total $665 billion.3 The actual amount
   appropriated for 2002 in the 13 regular appropriation acts totaled $691
   billion. In addition, the Congress and the President enacted $20
   billion in supplemental budget authority in December as part of their
   response to the terrorist attacks of September 11thereby generating a
   total of $711 billion in budget authority for 2002, $45 billion more
   than CBO assumed last January.

   Under the provisions of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
   Control Act of 1985, CBOs baseline assumes that annual appropriations
   for discretionary programs continue at their current level, increasing
   only by the rates of inflation projected for each year. As a result of
   the appropriations enacted for 2002, projections of discretionary
   spending in the current baseline begin at a level that is $45 billion
   higher than a year ago.

   Furthermore, two supplemental appropriation laws enacted in fiscal year
   2001one for defense personnel and readiness programs and another in
   immediate response to the attacks of September 11will generate outlays
   totaling around $25 billion in 2002 and beyond. However, budget
   authority from actions in 2001 is not carried forward into the baseline
   projections for future years because those appropriations occurred
   before the current year.

   Overall, legislated reductions in revenues, additional discretionary
   spending, and other laws with smaller budgetary effects have reduced
   projected surplusesand thereby increased the governments borrowing
   needsby $1,858 billion for 2002
   black spacer bar

   2. About 45 percent of that reduction results from changes made since
   CBO issued its updated Budget and Economic Outlook in August. The drop
   since August totals $1.8 trillion and is attributed, in relatively
   equal measures, to legislative, economic, and technical changes.

   3. That figure was calculated by assuming that the amount appropriated
   for the base year of 2001 would grow at specified rates of inflation.

                                      3

   black spacer bar

   through 2011. That increased borrowing is projected to result in an
   extra $562 billion in net interest costs over the 10-year period.

   Changes in the economic outlook since January 2001 account for another
   $929 billion decline in the 10-year surplus. About three-quarters of
   that total reflects lower revenue projections, mostly resulting from
   the substantially weaker economic growth expected in the near term and
   the slightly lower average growth rates projected for the following
   several years. Much of the rest of the decline attributable to the
   economic outlook represents additional debt-service costs resulting
   from the reduction in anticipated revenues.

   Technical changesthose not driven by new legislation or by changes in
   CBOs economic forecasthave reduced the projected 10-year surplus by a
   total of $660 billion since last January. As with the economic changes,
   revenues account for over 75 percent of the technical changes, and debt
   service accounts for much of the rest. The technical changes to
   revenues stem primarily from revised projections of capital gains
   realizations and adjustments for lower-than-expected tax collections in
   recent months.
   Homeland Security

   Since the attacks of September 11, federal agencies, state and local
   governments, and the private sector have perceived a heightened threat
   to the United States and a need to commit more resources to homeland
   security. On the federal level, legislation following the attacks
   increased the budget authority provided for such security from $17
   billion in 2001 to $22 billion for 2002. What level of resources to
   commit to homeland security will undoubtedly be a key issue as the
   Congress and the President make decisions about spending and other
   policies this year.
   The Outlook for Federal Debt

   In the January 2001 Budget and Economic Outlook, CBO estimated that
   federal debt held by the public would reach a level in 2006 that would
   allow the Treasury to retire all of the debt available for redemption.
   At that time, CBO also projected that the statutory ceiling on all
   federal debt (which includes debt held by government accounts) would
   not be reached until 2009. Now, CBO estimates that debt held by the
   public will not be fully redeemed within the 10-year projection period
   and that the current debt ceiling will be reached in the next few
   months. Nevertheless, if the

                                      4

   black spacer bar

   surpluses projected in the current baseline materialize, debt held by
   the public will fall to about 15 percent of GDP in 2010its lowest level
   since 1917.
   THE ECONOMIC OUTLOOK

   In CBOs opinion, the most likely path for the economy is a mild
   recession that may already have reached its nadir. CBO expects the
   annual growth rate of real (inflation-adjusted) GDP to accelerate from
   -0.2 percent in 2001 (measured from the fourth quarter of calendar year
   2000 to the fourth quarter of 2001) to 2.5 percent in 2002 and to
   accelerate further to 4.3 percent in 2003.

   Some unusual features of the current recession will cause it to be
   mild, CBO believes. Chief among those features are the rapidity of
   policymakers responses, the moderating behavior of prices, and an early
   reduction in businesses inventories. In less than one year, the Federal
   Reserve has cut the federal funds rate 11 timesfrom 6.5 percent to 1.75
   percent. Also, the tax cuts enacted in June prevented consumption from
   slowing more than it might have otherwise, and additional federal
   spending in response to the terrorist attacks will boost GDP in 2002.
   Lower prices for oil and natural gas and mild price increases for other
   items are supporting consumption by boosting real disposable income.
   Furthermore, businesses began to reduce inventories earlier in this
   recession than they did in past downturns, which may mean that fewer
   cuts in inventories remain than at this stage of the typical recession.

   CBO projects that weak demand in the short run will translate into weak
   employment, pushing the unemployment rate higher for the next several
   quarters while restraining inflation. With growth of real GDP near zero
   early this year, the unemployment rate is expected to increase to 6.1
   percent in calendar year 2002 from 4.8 percent last year (see Table 3).
   The rate of inflation faced by consumers is forecast to fall from 2.9
   percent last year to 1.8 percent in 2002. Lower oil prices account for
   most of the projected decline in inflation, although the recession also
   plays a role. As oil prices stabilize in CBOs forecast, inflation
   bounces back to 2.5 percent in 2003.

   Looking out through 2012, CBO expects the growth of real GDP to average
   3.1 percent during the 2002-2012 periodroughly the same as it projected
   last January for the 2002-2011 period. Nonetheless, the level of real
   GDP is lower each year than in last Januarys projections, primarily
   because actual GDP ended up much lower in 2001 than CBO had expected a
   year ago.

                                      5

   black spacer bar
   UNCERTAINTY OF THE PROJECTIONS

   CBOs baseline projections represent the midrange of possible outcomes
   based on past and current trends and the assumption that current
   policies do not change. But considerable uncertainty surrounds those
   projections for two reasons. First, future legislation is likely to
   alter the paths of federal spending and revenues. CBO does not predict
   legislationindeed, any attempt to incorporate future legislative
   changes would undermine the usefulness of the baseline as a benchmark
   against which to measure the effects of such changes. Second, the U.S.
   economy and the federal budget are highly complex and are affected by
   many economic and technical factors that are difficult to predict. As a
   result, actual budgetary outcomes will almost certainly differ from
   CBOs baseline projections.

   In view of such uncertainty, the outlook for the budget can best be
   described as a fan of probabilities around the point estimates
   presented as CBOs baseline (see Figure 1). Not surprisingly, those
   probabilities widen as the projection period extends. As the fan chart
   makes clear, projections that are quite different from the baseline
   have a significant probability of coming to pass.
   THE LONG-TERM OUTLOOK

   Despite the sizable surpluses projected for the later years of
   CBOs10-year budget outlook, long-term pressures on spending loom just
   over the horizon. Those pressures result from the aging of the U.S.
   population (large numbers of baby boomers will start becoming eligible
   for Social Security retirement benefits in 2008 and for Medicare in
   2011), from increased life spans, and from rising costs for federal
   health care programs. According to midrange estimates, if current
   policies continue, spending on Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid
   combined will nearly double by 2030, to almost 15 percent of GDP.

   Taking action sooner rather than later to address long-term budgetary
   pressures can make a significant difference. In particular, policies
   that encourage economic growth such as running budget surpluses to
   boost national saving and investment, enacting tax and regulatory
   policies that encourage work and saving, and focusing more government
   spending on investment rather than on current consumptioncan help by
   increasing the total amount of resources available for all uses.

                                      6

   black spacer bar
   TABLE 1 -- Changes in CBOs Baseline Projections
                      of the Surplus Since January 2001
   TABLE 2 -- The Budget Outlook Under Current Policies
   TABLE 3 -- CBOs Economic Forecast for 2002 and 2003
   FIGURE 1 -- Uncertainty in CBOs Projections of the
                       Total Budget Surplus Under Current Policies
   ADDITIONAL TABLES
   CBOs Baseline Budget Projections
   CBOs Baseline Projections of Discretionary Spending
   CBOs Current and Previous Economic Projections
   for Calendar Years 2001 Through 2011
   CHARTS PRESENTED AT THE HEARING
   Why CBOs Budget Projections Changed
   Uncertainty in CBOs Projections of the Total Budget Surplus
   Under Current Policies Projected Federal Spending
   for Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid
   Total Revenues as a Share of GDP, 1944-2012
