http://www.ncvhs.hhs.gov/00062050sm.htm

    A Symposium At the National Academy of Sciences Celebrating The 50th
    Anniversary of the National Committee on Vital and Health Statistics
                                  1949-1999

                        2101 Constitution Avenue, NW
                              Washington, D.C.

                                June 20, 2000
     __________________________________________________________________

   Presentations

   Shaping a Vision for Health Statistics by Gary Catlin, Statistics
   Canada acrobat
   Written comments provided by Kerr White
   Presentation by Dr. Detmer acrobat
   Presentation by Dr. Lumpkin acrobat
   Shaping a Vision for 21st Century Health Statistics by Dorothy P. Rice

                                   Reports

   NCVHS 50^th Anniversary Symposium Reports acrobat new (1.52 MB)

  Agenda

  Transcript
     __________________________________________________________________

                      NCVHS 50TH ANNIVERSARY SYMPOSIUM

                                   SUMMARY

   The National Committee on Vital and Health Statistics (NCVHS),
   established in 1949, celebrated its 50th Anniversary on June 20, 2000
   with a Symposium at the National Academy of Sciences (NAS). The
   attendees included current and former Committee members and staff,
   policy makers, other government officials, members of the scientific
   community, and representatives of professional associations.

   The participants used the occasion to reflect on the Committee’s
   accomplishments over five decades; to review the current status of
   health, health care, and information in the U.S. and globally; and to
   consider future directions and priorities for the Committee. The
   Symposium discussions pointed firmly to the future by underscoring the
   need for timely action, with federal leadership and NCVHS guidance, to
   harness the unrealized potential of information to improve individual,
   community, and national health.

   Health and Human Services Secretary Donna Shalala joined the Chair of
   the NAS Committee on National Statistics, the three most recent NCVHS
   chairs, and an HHS Data Council Co-Chair in offering congratulatory
   remarks. Each of these speakers recognized the National Committee’s
   past accomplishments but placed special emphasis on the important roles
   and contributions that lie ahead for NCVHS following this “victory
   lap.” NCVHS Chair John Lumpkin later observed with pleasure that his
   forward-looking predecessors seemed most interested in “reminiscing
   about the future and what we need to do.”

   The main focus and catalyst for discussion was two NCVHS interim
   reports outlining facets of what former NCVHS Chair Don Detmer called
   an “Information for Health Strategy.” The two closely related vision
   documents, now under development by the Committee, are “Toward a
   National Health Information Infrastructure” and “Shaping a Vision for
   21st Century Health Statistics.” (Both are published in this volume and
   also posted on the NCVHS Website.)

   The reports were presented by the Chairs of the NCVHS Workgroups that
   developed them, followed by reactions from distinguished commentators.
   Rather than proposing any changes to the visions, the Reactors focused
   on the need to implement them as soon as possible, noting the
   challenges that can be expected in doing so. The presentations offered
   complementary perspectives on using the visions to “bring knowledge to
   the point of service” to improve the population’s health. Many speakers
   endorsed Dr. Detmer’s suggestion that building the health dimension of
   the information superhighway would require “a roadmap, a budget, and a
   designated driver.”

   The following report summarizes each of the presentations and then
   reviews the crosscutting themes in the Symposium. What emerged was a
   picture of a health environment that is challenged, both positively and
   negatively, by the information explosion, and that faces unresolved
   needs among which health disparities and the lack of comprehensive
   privacy protections are top priorities. The Symposium created momentum
   for action in this environment, based on the evolving information
   strategy.
     __________________________________________________________________

THE PRESENTATIONS IN BRIEF

                                    Welcome

   John E. Rolph, Ph.D., Chair, NAS Committee on National Statistics

   Dr. Rolph welcomed and congratulated the Committee on behalf of the
   National Academy of Sciences (NAS) and its Committee on National
   Statistics (CNSTAT). CNSTAT’s most recent health-related activity was
   convening a workshop on the future of health statistics (November
   1999). The National Center for Health Statistics requested the workshop
   as a step in developing a vision for 21st century health statistics.
   The workshop’s findings, scheduled for release in August 2000, are
   consonant with those in the NCVHS interim report on the same topic. A
   general theme of the workshop was that at present, “the U.S. health
   statistics system . . . cannot fully meet the nation’s current and
   anticipated health information needs.”

Opening Remarks:

  Chair and Former Chairs

   John R. Lumpkin, M.D., M.P.H., Chair, NCVHS

   Dr. Lumpkin noted the importance of the National’s Committee’s
   partnership with CNSTAT and his hope that it would continue to grow. He
   commented on the momentous changes during the Committee’s 50 years of
   existence and the implications of those changes for the future. During
   that period, information and knowledge have become a transforming force
   in the world, facilitated by the technology of information and
   knowledge management. Dr. Lumpkin welcomed each of his predecessors to
   the podium, also encouraging participants to read the written
   reflections sent by former Chair Kerr White, M.D. (Chair 1975-1979).

   Don E. Detmer, M.D., Dennis Gillis Professor of Health Management,
   Judge Institute of Management, Cambridge University (Chair 1996-1998)

   After highlighting aspects of the Committee’s history, Dr. Detmer
   shifted the focus to the future, observing that “it is probably better
   to invent part of the future than to inherit all of it.” To this end,
   he proposed that the Committee and the Department find a way to link
   the two interim vision reports into a national Information for Health
   strategy, to bring “the right information to all the right places at
   the right time.” Realizing this vision will require partnerships among
   patients, communities, and national bodies including NCVHS, the
   Department, and the National Academy of Sciences. He also mentioned the
   need for monitoring systems using solid statistical analysis, as well
   as progress toward global standards. Many Symposium speakers later
   reiterated the importance of global connections and standards.

   Dr. Detmer praised the two NCVHS reports and urged steady movement
   toward their implementation. He identified three essential conditions
   for this to take place: an Information for Health roadmap, a budget,
   and a designated driver. Dr. Detmer observed that the U.K., Canada, and
   Australia, among other countries, all have maps or plans, and the U.S.
   needs one, too. These countries also have far more government funding
   than the U.S. invests in its information infrastructure. He suggested
   that 7 billion dollars, spread over seven years, could move the U.S.
   infrastructure forward significantly. Regarding the need for a
   designated driver, he asserted that the U.S. needs “an agency or a
   center . . . that leads the agenda” and can channel the prevailing
   “enormous good intention and tremendous energy.”

   Judith Miller Jones, Director, National Health Policy Forum (Chair
   1991-1996)

   Ms. Jones commented on the high caliber of people in the field of
   health statistics, where, like the children in Garrison Keillor’s Lake
   Wobegon, “everyone is above average.” She noted that today’s Committee
   builds on 50 years of NCVHS achievements. Its work recently has been
   made more challenging by the Health Insurance Portability and
   Accountability Act, compounded by unresolved privacy concerns.
   Declaring that “data and health statistics are the bedrock of good
   policy,” she promised to redouble her efforts to improve information
   policy.

   Ronald G. Blankenbaker, M.D., Associate Dean, University of Tennessee
   College of Medicine, Chattanooga (Chair 1986-1991)

   Dr. Blankenbaker praised the National Committee for approaching its
   work in the spirit of the broad World Health Organization definition of
   health. This resonated with Kerr White’s written observation that the
   health world is starting to recognize “the reality that the genesis of
   ill health and disease involves many factors other than germs and
   genes.”

   Dr. Blankenbaker noted the challenge of managing burgeoning data and
   information while also providing the kind of health care implied by the
   WHO definition. He joined his colleagues in congratulating NCVHS for
   its work, affirming that “the Committee does make a difference.”

Opening Remarks:

   Department of Health and Human Services Representatives

   Hon. Donna Shalala, Secretary of Health and Human Services

   In introducing Secretary Shalala, Dr. Lumpkin commented on her seven
   years of service as Secretary, longevity that is unusual for this
   position and that manifests important qualities of commitment and
   leadership. He reviewed her accomplishments, notably her support for
   upgrading the status of health information, statistics, and knowledge
   management within the Department.

   After acknowledging the leadership of Dr. Lumpkin, the former NCVHS
   chairs, and NCHS Director Ed Sondik, Secretary Shalala congratulated
   the Committee on its golden anniversary and expressed pride in what
   NCVHS and the Department have accomplished together. She said of NCVHS
   members, “I can’t think of a group of people who have worked harder to
   promote a better and healthier life for the people of this country.”
   The Committee is meeting her goals for it, namely building a
   broad-based national health information infrastructure and providing
   bridges to industry, the research and public health communities, and
   the American people. She noted that there is much left to be done to
   “build a seamless web of information-gathering and dissemination that
   still protects the privacy of individual citizens.” She promised to
   fight for more resources to accomplish these goals.

   John Eisenberg, M.D., M.B.A., Co-Chair, Data Council

   Dr. Lumpkin expressed appreciation for Dr. Eisenberg’s advocacy for
   health information and data policy within the Department.

   Dr. Eisenberg congratulated the Committee on behalf of himself and his
   co-Chair, Dr. Peggy Hamburg, joking that NCVHS now qualifies for AARP
   membership. He thanked the Committee for its hard work and valuable
   service, “not just for the Department but for the entire nation,” and
   he hailed the close relationship between the Committee and the Data
   Council and Department. NCVHS has provided a framework for bringing the
   benefits of information and technology to health and health care, in a
   way that protects the security and confidentiality of the information.

   Dr. Eisenberg reviewed the Committee’s historic contributions to
   advances in health information policy, noting its proposal for the
   first national health survey, its advice on Health U.S., its leadership
   on health data standards, and its close collaboration with HHS to
   develop the regulations required by HIPAA. He praised the skill with
   which the Committee “brings together policy and diplomacy to help
   people come to a consensus.” In conclusion, he urged participants to
   look at a new World Health Organization report, released June 20, which
   reflects the need to measure both the health of the public and the
   performance of the health care system.

Two Visions of Information for Health

   Moderator: Edward J. Sondik, Ph.D., Director, National Center for
   Health Statistics

   Dr. Sondik began by extending his own thanks to the Committee, its
   Chairs, Executive Secretary Marjorie Greenberg, and her predecessor,
   Dr. Gail Fisher. On the theme of rapid technological progress, he noted
   the short lapse in time between the horse and buggy, figuratively and
   literally, and the deciphering of the genome, as well as the
   implications of the latter breakthrough for the health community. The
   Committee is very important, he said, in helping to guide and catalyze
   responses to the technology that increasingly “drives the system.”

   With this he turned to the two featured reports, first introducing John
   Lumpkin, who chairs the Workgroup on the National Health Information
   Infrastructure (NHII).

   “Toward a National Health Information Infrastructure”
   John Lumpkin, M.D., Chair, NHII Workgroup

   Dr. Lumpkin observed that the attainment of health is a shared
   responsibility. The process is driven by the use of data, which, when
   converted into information and knowledge, can lead to action to create
   better health outcomes. Information allows us to understand the links
   among the many factors that affect health. Although health care today
   is still approached much as it was 100 years ago, relying on the
   information in the individual physician’s head, information technology
   offers the opportunity to transform health care. This change can be
   brought about by following through on the vision for the national
   health information infrastructure (NHII).

   The Committee envisions the NHII not as a centralized database, but as
   a means of connecting “distributed” health information into a secure
   network, with strict confidentiality provisions. Making these
   connections involves a data model, data standards, and connectivity
   standards. The purpose of the infrastructure is to “push knowledge to
   the point of service,” making today’s wealth of information available
   for clinicians, patients, and public health professionals to use in
   improving people’s health. These capabilities are expected to
   dramatically reduce medical errors and other adverse effects of care.

   The NHII has three dimensions, representing the three categories of key
   stakeholders: personal health, health care provider, and community
   health. (Health statistics, the focus of the second vision report, is
   part of the community health dimension.) The information and knowledge
   within each of these dimensions is controlled by the designated
   stakeholder i.e., the individual, the provider, or public health
   workers. Dr. Lumpkin described the core data for each dimension and
   ways in which the dimensions and stakeholders will interact and
   exchange information in this dynamic system. For detail on the provider
   dimension, he referred the audience to the Report on Uniform Data
   Standards for Patient Medical Record Information (which NCVHS sent to
   the Secretary in September 2000).

   He observed that the health care system now undergoing such
   transformation still must address basic issues of inequity and
   disparities. By providing decisional support and improving the quality
   of care, objective information systems can help the nation overcome
   treatment and outcome disparities.

   Privacy is another special challenge, and he outlined the
   confidentiality protections that will operate within each dimension and
   in the transactions between them. For example, the community health
   dimension will use information in its least identifiable form, with
   controlled access on a need-to-know basis. Despite precautions such as
   these, he acknowledged that protecting privacy and confidentiality
   remains a major challenge, along with assuring equity of access and
   treatment quality.

   The next steps in the development and promulgation of the NHII are to
   validate the vision, identify the barriers, and develop
   recommendations. Four hearings are scheduled around the country over
   the next six months. “Then comes the hard part,” when “we’ll be done
   with the talking and it will be time for the doing.” Dr. Lumpkin
   stressed the urgency of moving to the action stage, in view of the
   proliferation of new health information systems whose multiplicity will
   make change more expensive the longer it is delayed.

   Reactor: Edward Shortliffe, M.D., Ph.D., Chair, Medical Informatics,
   Columbia University; member, IOM National Research Council

   Dr. Shortliffe had earlier that day presented to NCVHS members the
   National Research Council report, “Networking Health: Prescriptions for
   the Internet.” He called the NCVHS vision for a national health
   information infrastructure, as articulated in the NHII report, “exactly
   right.” He focused his Symposium remarks on a complementary subject,
   the background and potential role of the Internet, which he suggested
   is “interwoven through much of what you envision for the future of the
   NHII” and indeed is likely to potentiate it.

   Dr. Shortliffe’s account of three decades of Internet development
   portrayed the medical world as slow to take advantage of this resource.
   As the infrastructure, standards, and consensus developed, parts of the
   medical world got involved but in general medical applications lagged
   far behind others. While consumers have embraced the health-related
   uses of the technology, “the health care community just didn’t get it.”
   Noting that the prevailing culture in the biomedical and health world
   creates resistance to the use of information technology, he said what
   is needed is nothing less than a fundamental cultural change. Part of
   the problem is the fragmentation of the health care industry, which
   exceeds that of other industries; other factors are changing modes of
   practice and fear related to financial pressures. At this stage, the
   health care community should support focused information technology
   research as a component of biomedical research, to further such
   interests as protecting privacy and achieving large-scale system
   integration.

   Finally, he pointed out that the national infrastructure on which the
   Internet depends would not have come into being without a “substantial
   investment by the government.” He stressed that government leadership
   remains essential to promote needed cultural change, help carry the
   costs of change, and bring the health world fully into the information
   age. Dr. Shortliffe agreed with Dr. Detmer about the three components
   needed to realize the NHII vision. All HHS agencies must be involved in
   this effort, and the National Committee is well positioned to help the
   government figure out its role. “Now is the time to start the federal
   process,” he said, even as the Committee continues to elicit comments
   from around the country to flesh out the vision.

   “Shaping a Vision for 21st Century Health Statistics”
   Daniel J. Friedman, Ph.D., Chair, Workgroup on 21st Century Health
   Statistics

   Dr. Sondik acknowledged Dr. Friedman’s leadership in crafting the
   vision for health statistics and moving that process forward.

   Dr. Friedman said that the National Committee, NCHS, and the Data
   Council are collaborating on developing the health statistics vision in
   response to a 1998 request from Dr. Sondik. The vision encompasses
   population health, the health care system, and the interaction of the
   two at local, state, and national levels, using both public and private
   data. An important goal of the process, beyond developing the vision,
   is to define what is needed to implement itwhich “is going to be the
   really difficult part.” A related goal is to clarify the criteria for
   evaluating the health statistics system, today and in the future.

   Developing the interim report and getting national feedback to its
   content represent the second of five phases planned for this process.
   The first phase was dedicated to learning from the past and the present
   through commissioned papers, consultative sessions in several
   communities around the U.S., forums at professional meetings, and the
   CNSTAT workshop described above. Finding a dearth of definitions of
   health statistics, the Workgroup developed its own, emphasizing the use
   of statistics in designing, implementing, monitoring, and evaluating
   health policy and health programs. Phases three through five of the
   processfurther national consultation, completion of the vision, and
   implementation are described below.

   U.S. health statistics have been marked by unrealized potential, Dr.
   Friedman said, due to this nation’s failure to deal adequately with
   privacy and confidentiality issues, together with the existence of
   multiple unconnected data silos and the lack of a consistent conceptual
   and organizational structure. The result is “a surfeit of data but a
   dearth of information, as well as multiple unanswered questions,” at
   both macro and micro levels. One significant unanswered question, for
   instance, concerns the impact of health care on health.

   From the vision development process thus far have emerged ten “very
   rough-cut principles” around which a detailed 21st century vision will
   be constructed. Dr. Friedman commented briefly on each of the
   principles, which are enumerated in the report. They include the need
   for privacy protection, flexibility to address emergent issues and
   needs, usefulness at different levels of aggregation and for different
   purposes, maximum access and ease of use, and policy relevance. Broad
   collaboration among private and public stakeholders will be needed to
   carry out this vision.

   The next steps in the process are to receive further input through
   regional hearings and comments from the public via the project Website
   as well as at professional meetings, to map the current system against
   the conceptual framework, to delineate and address specific privacy and
   confidentiality concerns, and to produce a final vision report. The
   ultimate, and most important, phase follows the release of the report:
   using this vision for federal, state, and local population health
   information planning.

   Reactor: Dorothy Rice, Sc.D., Professor Emeritus, Institute For Health
   and Aging, University of California, San Francisco

   Dr. Rice, who directed NCHS from 1976 to 1982, delivered the keynote
   address at the November 1999 CNSTAT workshop on 21st century health
   statistics. Dr. Sondik acknowledged her significant public health
   contributions, in particular her analysis of the costs of smoking.

   Dr. Rice characterized the interim report on health statistics as
   “very, very important” and “the beginning of hopefully a very fruitful
   effort.” After praising Dr. Sondik for stimulating the development of
   the vision, she highlighted what she regards as “the most glaring gaps”
   and cross-cutting issues addressed in the report. The most serious gap
   concerns health statistics on sub-population groups, including children
   and racial and ethnic minorities. Compounding this gap is the
   difficulty of obtaining data on socioeconomic differences. More
   longitudinal data are also needed “We should start with children and
   follow them through their life” and she called for pilot projects to
   move that idea forward. Our pluralistic healthcare delivery system
   creates special problems in data collection, analysis, and
   dissemination, with proliferating data systems and little sharing. The
   fragmentation of the system makes it imperative to integrate
   statistical systems, using uniform definitions.

   On the federal side, Dr. Rice noted the many knowledge gaps that remain
   despite a broad array of surveys. For example, information on health
   insurance coverage is available only from a Labor Department report on
   unemployment. State and private data systems compound the
   fragmentation, and to these problems are added those caused by the
   irregular quality of data sources. She contrasted these with the more
   comprehensive California Health Interview Survey, one of several
   current models of collaborative data collection involving states,
   academics, and the federal government.

   Above all, she stressed the need to invest in health statistics, as a
   demonstration of a “judicious political commitment to quality health
   statistics in the public and private sectors.” Returning to Dr.
   Detmer’s list of preconditions for the Information for Health strategy,
   she asserted that “NCHS should be the designated driver.” One of the
   next steps toward implementing this strategy, she said, should be an
   effort to “make people more conscious of the importance of health
   statistics,” thereby generating a constituency that would support a
   greater investment of resources.

   Gary Catlin, Director, Health Statistics Division, Statistics Canada

   Introducing Mr. Catlin, Dr. Sondik noted the importance of looking to
   other countries to learn how they have dealt with challenges like those
   the U.S. is now facing.

   Mr. Catlin said Canada has confronted and is confronting the same
   issues as those outlined in the NCVHS health statistics report. A
   Canadian task force on health information in 1990 recommended creation
   of a health information coordinating council, citing concerns much like
   those identified by NCVHS. That “very influential” report led to
   formation of the Canadian Institute for Health Information (CIHI), an
   independent nonprofit organization that serves as Canada’s “designated
   driver” for health statistics. In 1994, Canada started a longitudinal
   national population health survey and embarked on a series of
   cross-country consultations that resulted in the Health Information
   Roadmap (posted on the CIHI Website).

   The 1999 Canadian federal budget allocated $95 million to Statistics
   Canada and CIHI over three-to-four years to implement the vision
   outlined in the Roadmap. Some 38 projects are funded to answer two
   basic questions: How healthy are Canadians? and How healthy is the
   health care system? Also under development are a health infrastructure
   report describing the existing health information system, and a
   two-year strategic plan for moving ahead.

   Canada is also dealing with privacy and confidentiality issues, with
   one focus being the development of harmonized privacy legislation among
   the provinces and territories. Like the U.S., Canada envisions
   project-specific linkages rather than a “mega-database.” 95 percent of
   Canadians gave their consent to linking household survey information to
   administrative data for the 1994 national population health survey. To
   combine privacy protection with controlled data access for researchers,
   Canada is setting up research data centers in universities around the
   country.

   Mr. Catlin described a major initiative related to the Roadmapa new
   community health survey that will begin in September 2000 and generate
   tailored local and regional data for 130 health regions. Other Roadmap
   initiatives include a pilot project involving person-oriented
   longitudinal health histories, and the production of annual health
   reports. Starting in the Spring of 2000, Statistics Canada began
   reporting on the health of Canadians, with CIHI reporting on the health
   of the health care system. Dr. Catlin stressed regular reporting as an
   essential byproduct of health statistics. This reporting, he said, must
   be done “with the public in mind” and must offer the information the
   public wants to know. He also affirmed a priority mentioned by several
   previous speakers, the need to develop internationally comparable
   health indicators for use in health surveys and reporting. Canada, he
   said, would like to work with NCHS and others in moving this forward.

   Mr. Catlin concluded by sharing lessons from the Canadian experience.
   They relate to the challenges of standardization, the importance of
   cooperation and consultation among “a vast number of interests,” the
   fact that the public “are amazed at what we don’t know,” and the need
   for a long-term investment to realize the vision.

Audience Comments

   Dr. Detmer proposed that “the market value of health has gone up”: many
   people are getting interested in health because of environmental
   concerns and other factors. Given the likelihood that this interest
   will stimulate a greater willingness to invest in information, those
   responsible for information for health must be ready to take action.

   Dr. Myron Straf raised the possibility that with the proliferation of
   private sector data, “bad data will drive out good data” and people
   will lose sight of the relevance of population-based surveys. Dr.
   Lumpkin said the question “gets to the heart of how we use
   population-based data”; the latter are needed to provide the
   denominator that gives meaning to the numerators derivable from
   administrative and clinical data. Thus, the proliferation of data
   sources only intensifies the need for community- or population-based
   sources. Dr. Lumpkin and Dr. Sondik noted the worrisome trend toward
   the commodification of data.

   Dr. Manning Feinleib suggested that basic scientists, especially those
   in the genome project, should be treated as an important group of
   stakeholders and involved at an early stage in considering
   confidentiality and other complex issues.

   Ms. Jones observed that more and more people want to know how their
   individual data compare to population data, in order to know their
   relative risk and improve their health-related decision-making. This is
   an application for which health statistics could be used more
   effectively.

Closing Remarks: Dr. Lumpkin

   In closing, Dr. Lumpkin noted that the Committee has recently completed
   three significant reportson computer-based patient records, health
   statistics, and the NHII. He continued, “Now that we have said what we
   need to do and advised the Secretary on what needs to be done, it is
   time to do it.” Looking ahead, he said the Committee has important work
   to do with respect to privacy, security, population health and health
   statistics, and functional status measurement, among other areas.

   Finally, he acknowledged the contributions of Executive Secretary
   Marjorie Greenberg and Executive Staff Director Jim Scanlon and their
   staffs, without whom the Committee’s accomplishments would be
   impossible. He then adjourned the Symposium, inviting all participants
   to join the Committee and staff at a reception in the Great Hall.

MAJOR SYMPOSIUM THEMES

  Information for Health

   Several speakers came armed with statistics to illustrate the rapid
   growth of technology, the proliferation of data sources, and the sheer
   quantity of data now available to health systems and health
   professionals.^(1) Noting the difficulty of managing the speed and
   volume of this “explosion” and the fragmentation that often accompanies
   it, they portrayed these forces as both challenges and opportunities.
   Proliferation, fragmentation, lack of standardization, and lack of
   utility were all mentioned as information challenges in the health
   area, both within the U.S. and internationally.

   The point was made repeatedly that to be useful, data must be converted
   into information and knowledge; and beyond this, that the potential
   value is only realized when information and knowledge lead to action in
   such forms as service delivery, reporting, and policy.

   A major tension in this area concerns privacy, a theme that wove
   through the discussions. Many speakers observed that the value of
   information for health is contingent on having adequate privacy
   protections. This point was especially salient in discussions of the
   two vision documents, where the Committee is designing blueprints for
   the “ideal” information infrastructure and applications that can only
   become a reality when adequate privacy protections are in place.

   These challenges notwithstanding, the major emphasis of the Symposium
   was the demonstrated value and unrealized potential of information as a
   tool for improving health. Brought “to the point of service,”
   information can improve decision-making by policy makers, public health
   workers, health care providers, and consumers. Information technology
   greatly increases the forms and speed of communication. And given
   adequate laws, policies, and security measures, it can improve privacy
   protections. Thus, a strong message to emerge from the Symposium was
   that information can be a vital resource for health, provided that it
   is guided by a national strategy based on clear principles and goals.
   The elimination of disparities was highlighted as an especially
   pressing goal for health care and population health systems, and one
   for which better information can make a critical difference.

  Time for Federal Action

   The question, then, is how to develop the national strategy and use it
   to take action.

   Dr. Detmer moved the discussion in this direction with his call for
   action and federal leadership and his characterization of the NHII and
   health statistics visions as a nascent Information for Health strategy.
   Dr. Shortliffe added a sense of urgency by asserting that “now is the
   time to start the federal action,” a point Dr. Lumpkin repeated in his
   final remarks.

   Two questions from Dr. Detmer “What’s holding us up?” and “What do we
   need to move forward?” gave focus to the discussion. His answer, using
   the information superhighway metaphor, recommended three forms of
   facilitation: a roadmap, a budget, and a designated driver. Other
   speakers elaborated on these themes, including Dr. Rice’s nomination of
   NCHS for the role of designated driver.

   In general, the Symposium discussions confirmed that the two NCVHS
   vision papers are a good start toward a national health information
   strategy and infrastructure. In the Canadian experience participants
   recognized an instructive model and a promising source of future
   collaboration. Other countries’ examples were also cited, notably those
   of Australia and the United Kingdom.

   As these nations have shown, developing and implementing an information
   strategy requires an ample budget and strong leadership. The presenters
   agreed that in the U.S., only the federal government can provide the
   leadership and funding needed for this effort.

   Dr. Rice and others pointed out that the information infrastructure in
   general, and health statistics in particular, suffer from
   underinvestment. Dr. Shortliffe contrasted the 18 percent that American
   Airlines invests in information technology with the 2 percent invested
   by the health care industry. Mr. Catlin reported that Canada has
   budgeted $95 million (Canadian) for its health information roadmap. Dr.
   Detmer noted that the U.K. has $1.5 billion (U.S.) budgeted to
   modernize their information infrastructure. He suggested that the U.S.
   government think in terms of $1 billion a year for seven years.

   Several presenters observed that the National Committee, through its
   collective expertise, commitment, relationship with the Department, and
   50-year track record, is well positioned to advise the government on
   providing the needed leadership. The initial stages have already begun,
   through the actions highlighted in the Symposium: refining the visions
   for the information infrastructure, engaging and consulting
   stakeholders, and laying the groundwork for implementation.
     __________________________________________________________________

   This report was written by Susan Baird Kanaan.

   ^(1) For example, Dr. Blankenbaker noted that there were 10,000
   journals in 1951 and there are more than 140,000 today; and given the
   present “trajectory of information generation,” by 2020 information
   will double every 73 days.

   November 5, 2001
