http://www.itl.nist.gov/pervasivecomputing.html

   [head_itl_home.gif]

                         PERVASIVE COMPUTING PROGRAM

   [BrochureCover.jpg] Pervasive Computing is a term that signifies
   several new elements of computing. One element involves pervasive
   computation - computers and sensors "everywhere" in devices,
   appliances, equipment, in homes, workplaces and factories, and in
   clothing. Another element involves pervasive communication - a high
   degree of communication among devices and sensors through a ubiquitous
   and secure network infrastructure with a wired core and wireless
   adjuncts that communicate with the core. Because computation will
   become so integrated into our lives and activities, natural forms of
   human-computer interaction, such as spoken dialogue with computers,
   will become more important.

   The ITL Pervasive Computing Program Focuses on Three Main Areas:

   Smart Space Integration

   Pervasive Software Tools

   Pervasive Networking Technology

   The NIST Information Technology Laboratory staff has expertise in many
   of the necessary areas and is seeking new industrial partners to
   coperatively develop measurements and standards that will improve your
   productivity and competitiveness in the information technology
   industry.

   Please contact us to talk about your interests in pervasive computing:

   William Mehuron

   Martin Herman


   Download the Pervasive Computer Brochure [pdf.gif]

   To view and print "pdf files," Adobe Acrobat's Reader is required. This
   software may be downloaded without charge. The software is available at
   www.adobe.com/products/acrobat. In no case does such identification
   imply
   recommendation or endorsement by the National Institute of Standards
   and Technology.


   Technical inquiries: itlab@nist.gov
   Information Technology Laboratory
   NIST, 100 Bureau Drive, Stop 890,
   Gaithersburg, MD 20899-8900.


                          Statement/Security Notice
                              Disclaimer | FOIA

                          NIST is an agency of the
                         U.S. Commerce Department's
                         Technology Administration.

                           Date Created: 11/01/01
                           Last Updated: 11/01/01
