http://www.legislative.noaa.gov/testimon.html

   Testimony Banner

   Main Page

   Updated 11:25 am January 24, 2002

   SECOND SESSION, 107 CONGRESS

   JANUARY
   Assistant Secretary-designate for Oceans and Atmosphere Dr. James Mahoney at
   his confirmation hearing before the Senate Commerce, Science, and
   Transportation Committee (Acting Chair John Kerry, D-MA), January 24, 2002

   FIRST SESSION, 107TH CONGRESS
   DECEMBER
   Deputy Assistant Administrator for NOAA Fisheries Regulatory Programs Dr.
   Rebecca Lent, Northeast Fisheries Science Center Director Dr. Michael
   Sissenwine, and Northeast Fisheries Science Center Fishery Research Biologist
   Dr. R. Anne Richards appears on behalf of NOAA before the House Resources
   Fisheries Conservation, Wildlife and Oceans Subcommittee (Chair Wayne
   Gilchrest, R-MD), Ocean City, MD, December 11, 2001

   NOVEMBER
   Commerce Under Secretary-designee for Oceans and Atmosphere and NOAA
   Administrator-designate Conrad Lautenbacher, Jr., confirmation hearing before
   the Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee (Acting Chair Ron Wyden,
   D-OR), November 8, 2001.
   Assistant Administrator for Oceanic and Atmospheric Research David Evans
   before the House Resources Fisheries Conservation, Wildlife and Oceans
   Subcommittee on the reauthorization of the National Sea Grant College Program
   (Chair Wayne Gilchrest, R-MD), November 8, 2001. A detailed account of the
   hearing has been prepared by the NOAA Office of Legislative Affairs
   OCTOBER
   Assistant Administrator for Fisheries William Hogarth before the House
   Resources Committee Subcommittee on National Parks, Recreation, and Public
   Lands (Chair George Radanovich, R-CA) on effects of Washington Aqueduct
   sediment and pollution on endangered shortnose sturgeon, October 30, 2001. A
   detailed account of the hearing has been prepared by the NOAA Office of
   Legislative Affairs
   Acting Under Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere Scott Gudes before the House
   Resources Fisheries Conservation, Wildlife, and Oceans Subcommittee (Chair
   Wayne Gilchrest, R-MD) meeting in Annapolis, MD, on Chesepeake Bay
   Restoraton, Management, and Research, October 22, 2001. A detailed account of
   the hearing has been prepared by the NOAA Office of Legislative Affairs

   Acting Under Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere Scott Gudes before the
   Senate Commerce Oceans, Atmosphere, and Fisheries Subcommittee (Chair John
   Kerry, D-MA) on the role of NOAA and the Coast Guard on maritime security and
   homeland defense, October 11, 2001.

   National Weather Service Office of Science and Technology Director Jack Hayes
   and Research Meteorologist Chris Landsea, Atlantic Oceanic Meteorological
   Laboratory (and chart) before the House Science Committee Environment,
   Technology, and Standards Subcommittee (Chair Vern Ehlers, R-MI) on
   "Weatherproofing the U.S.: Are We Prepared for Severe Storms," October 11,
   2001. A detailed account of the hearing has been prepared by the NOAA Office
   of Legislative Affairs

   Assistant Administrator for Fisheries William Hogarth and Deputy National
   Marine Fisheries Service Northwest Region Director Joe Scordino before the
   House Resources Committee
   Subcommittee on Fisheries Conservation, Wildlife and Oceans (Chair Wayne
   Gilchrest, R-MD) on the Marine Mammal Protection Act and low frequency active
   sonar, October 11, 2001. A detailed account of the hearing has been prepared
   by the NOAA Office of Legislative Affairs
   SEPTEMBER
   Acting Under Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere Scott Gudes before the House
   Resources Fisheries Conservation, Wildlife and Oceans Subcommittee (Chair
   Wayne Gilchrest, R-MD) on the reauthorization of the NOAA Chesapeake Bay
   Office, September 21, 2001.

   AUGUST
   Acting Assistant Administrator for Fisheries William Hogarth before the House
   Resources Fisheries Conservation, Wildlife and Oceans Subcommittee and
   Southeast Fisheries Science Center Sustainable Fisheries Division Director
   Dr. Gerald Scott, (Chair Wayne Gilchrest, R-MD) on the Atlantic Highly
   Migratory Species legislation, August 2, 2001.

   July
   Acting Under Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere Scott Gudes before the House
   Resources Fisheries Conservation, Wildlife, and Oceans Subcommittee (Chair
   Wayne Gilchrest, R-MD) on hydrographic and navigation services, July 27,
   2001.
   Assistant Administrator for Oceanic and Atmospheric Research David Evans and
   Great Lakes Environmental Research Laboratory Director Stephen Brandt before
   the House cience Environment, Technology and Standards Subcommittee (Chair
   Vern Ehlers, R-MI) on invasive species, July 26, 2001. A detailed account of
   the hearing has been prepared by the NOAA Office of Legislative Affairs
   National Marine Fisheries Service Alaska Region Administrator Dr. James
   Balsiger before the House Resources Fisheries Conservation, Wildlife and
   Oceans Subcommittee (Acting Chair Don Young, R-AK) on HR 553, the Western
   Alaska Community Development Quota Program Implementation Improvement Act of
   2001, July 19, 2001. A detailed account of the hearing has been prepared by
   the NOAA Office of Legislative Affairs
   Director of the Office of Response and Restoration David Kennedy before the
   House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources and
   Environment (Chair John Duncan, R-TN) on contaminated sediments, July 19,
   2001.
   National Climatic Data Center Director Thomas Karl before the Senate
   Governmental Affairs Committee (Chair Joseph Lieberman, D-CT) on climate
   change policy and technology legislation, July 18, 2001.
   Acting Assistant Administrator for Fisheries William Hogarth before the
   Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee statement for the Record on
   hydropower relicensing (Chair Jeff Bingaman, R-NM), July 18, 2001.
   Acting Under Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere Scott Gudes before the House
   Resources Fisheries Conservation, Wildlfire, and Oceans Subcommittee (Chair
   Wayne Gilchrest, R-MD), House Science Environment, Technology and Standards
   Subcommittee (Chair Vern Ehlers, R-MI), and Science Research Subcommittee
   (Chair Nick Smith, R-MI), on ocean exploration, coastal observations, ocean
   observations, July 12, 2001. A detailed account of the hearing has been
   prepared by the NOAA Office of Legislative Affairs

   Assistant Administrator for Oceanic and Atmospheric Research David Evans
   before the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee (Acting
   Chair John Kerry, D-MA) on global climate change technologies and policies,
   July 10, 2001.
   June

   Acting Assistant Administrator for Fisheries William Hogarth statement for
   the Record before the House Energy and Commerce Energy and Air Quality
   Subcommittee (Chair Joe Barton, R-TX) on hydropower licensing, June 27, 2001.
   Acting Assistant Administrator for Fisheries William Hogarth, Chief Stock
   Assessment Scientist Steven Murawski of NMFS's Northeast Fisheries Science
   Center and Program Leader for Resource Ecology and Ecosytem Modeling Patricia
   Livingston of NMFS's Alaska Fisheries Science Center before the House
   Resources Fisheries Conservation, Wildlife and Oceans Subcommittee (Chair
   Wayne Gilchrest, R-MD) on ecosytem-based fishery management, June 14, 2001. A
   detailed account of the hearing has been prepared by the NOAA Office of
   Legislative Affairs
   Acting Assistant Administrator for Fisheries William Hogarth before the House
   Resources Fisheries Conservation, Wildlife and Oceans Subcommittee (Chair
   Wayne Gilchrest, R-MD) on the reauthorization of a number fisheries laws,
   June 7, 2001. A detailed account of the hearing has been prepared by the NOAA
   Office of Legislative Affairs
   NOAA Acting Administrator Scott Gudes before the House Appropriations
   Commerce, Justice, State, and the Judiciary Subcommittee (Chair Frank Wolf,
   R-VA) on the FY '02 NOAA budget request, June 6, 2001.

   May
   NOAA Acting Administrator Scott Gudes before the Senate Appropriations
   Commerce (Chair Ted Stevens, R-AK) on the Role of NOAA in Reducing
   Uncertainties Related to Climate Change in the Arctic, Anchorage, AK, May 29,
   2001.
   Acting Assistant Administrator for Ocean Services and Coastal Zone Management
   Margaret Davidson before House Resources Fisheries Conservation, Wildlife and
   Oceans Subcommittee (Chair Wayne Gilchrest, R-MD) on reauthorization of the
   Coastal Zone Management Act, May 24, 2001. A detailed account of the hearing
   has been prepared by the NOAA Office of Legislative Affairs
   NOAA Acting Administrator Scott Gudes before the Senate Appropriations
   Commerce, Justice, State, and the Judiciary Subcommittee (Chair Judd Gregg,
   R-NH) on the FY '02 NOAA budget request, May 15, 2001.
   Acting Assistant Administrator for Fisheries William Hogarth before the House
   Resources Fisheries Conservation, Wildlife and Oceans Subcommittee (Chair
   Wayne Gilchrest, R-MD) on reauthorization of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery
   Conservation and Management Act, with particular emphasis on efforts to
   control capacity, May 10, 2001. A detailed account of the hearing has been
   prepared by the NOAA Office of Legislative Affairs

   Office of Protected Resources for the National Marine Fisheries Service
   Director Don Knowles before the Senate Environment and Public Works
   Fisheries, Wildlife, and Water Subcommittee (Chair Mike Crapo, R-ID) on the
   Endangered Species Act listing and delisting process, May 9, 2001. A detailed
   account of the hearing has been prepared by the NOAA Office of Legislative
   Affairs
   NOAA Acting Administrator Scott Gudes before the House Science Environment,
   Technology and Standards Subcommittee (Chair Vern Ehlers, R-MI) on the FY '02
   NOAA budget request focusing on weather and climate prediction programs, May
   9, 2001. A detailed account of the hearing has been prepared by the NOAA
   Office of Legislative Affairs
   Secretary of Commerce Donald Evans before the House Appropriations Commerce,
   Justice, State, and the Judiciary Subcommittee (Chair Frank Wolf, R-VA) on
   the Department's FY 2002 budget request, May 3, 2001.

   NOAA Acting Administrator Scott Gudes before the House Resources Fisheries
   Conservation, Wildlife and Oceans Subcommittee (Chair Wayne Gilchrest, R-MD)
   on the FY '02 NOAA budget request, May 3, 2001. A detailed account of the
   hearing has been prepared by the NOAA Office of Legislative Affairs

   Secretary of Commerce Donald Evans before the Senate Appropriations Commerce,
   Justice, State, and the Judiciary Subcommittee (Chair Judd Gregg, R-NH) on
   the Department's FY 2002 budget request, May 1, 2001.

   NOAA Senior Scientist V. Ramaswamy of the Geophysical Fluid Dynamics
   Laboratory before the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee
   (Chair John McCain, R-AZ) on climate change research, May 1, 2001. A detailed
   account of the hearing has been prepared by the NOAA Office of Legislative
   Affairs
   Hearing before the Senate Commerce Oceans and Fisheries Subcommittee (Chair
   Olympia Snowe, R-ME) on S 637, a bill introduced by Sen. Snowe to amend the
   Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act, May 2, 2001. There
   were no NOAA witnesses. A detailed account of the hearing has been prepared
   by the NOAA Office of Legislative Affairs

   April
   NOAA Acting Administrator Scott Gudes before the House Science Committee
   (Chair Sherwood Boehlert, R-NY) on the FY '02 NOAA budget request, April 25,
   2001.
   NOAA Assistant General Counsel for Fisheries Margaret Hayes before the Senate
   Small Business Committee (Chair Christopher Bond, R-MO) on protecting small
   business rights; SBREFA on its Fifth Anniversary, April 24, 2001.
   Acting Assistant Administrator for Fisheries William Hogarth before the House
   Resources Fisheries Conservation, Wildlife and Oceans Subcommittee (Chair
   Wayne Gilchrest, R-MD) on reauthorization of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery
   Conservation and Management Act, April 4, 2001.
   March
   Aeronomy Laboratory Director Daniel Albritton before the House Science
   Committee (Chair Rep. Sherwood Boehlert, R-NY) on climate change research,
   March 14, 2001. A detailed account of the hearing has been prepared by the
   NOAA Office of Legislative Affairs
   January

   Acting Northwest Region National Marine Fisheries Service Director Donna Darm
   before the Senate Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee (Acting
   Chair Ron Wyden, D-OR) on the Pacific Coast Groundfish Fishery, Newport, OR,
   January 16, 2001.

     The Informer is a publication of the NOAA Office of Legislative
     Affairs.
