http://www.pueblo.gsa.gov/call/foia.htm


     Image of Federal Consumer Information Center star linking to the
   Federal Consumer Information Center web site
   Red button linking to National Contact Center's home page
   Red button linking to the Consumer Action Handbook
   Red button linking to www.kids.gov page
   Red button linking to the federal phone directories page
   Red button linking to the toll free phone directories page

                               Popular Topics
   Congress
   Consumer Topics
   Recalls
   Freedom of Information Act
   Federal Employment
   Privacy Act
   Medicare and Medicaid
   Federal Grants
   Federal Loans
   Savings Bonds
   Government Publications
   The Draft
   Finding Military Personnel
   Social Security
   Passports/Travel Abroad
   Workplace Issues
   Presidential Greetings
   Order a Flag

     Image linking to FirstGov "Your first click to the U.S. Government"
                               Text Version
                                 Site Map
                              Privacy Policy
                            Security Statement

         Title bar linking to National Contact Center's home page.

                  Freedom of Information and Privacy Acts

   General: This section is a brief primer on these well-known but perhaps
   little-understood laws. You may not need a complete understanding of
   the complexities of these two laws in order to use them. If you need
   more than what you see below, consider visiting your closest law
   library to read the texts of the laws, their interpretations, and case
   law. To see just the laws themselves, without commentary, please use
   the links in the following paragraphs.

   What’s the difference between the two laws?

   In brief, the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and the Electronic
   Freedom of Information Act Amendments of 1996 offer you a chance to
   obtain a copy of a record maintained by a Federal agency, a record that
   could be obtained by any other member of the public making a similar
   request, and - thus - a record that does not contain any information on
   individuals. In general, you use this law to ask for copies of reports
   on specific matters or for compilations of records on a particular
   subject.

   In contrast, the Privacy Act offers you a chance to request, review,
   and ask for corrections in Federal records that are about you. No one
   else can ask for these records and you may not request someone else’s
   material. A common use of this act is therefore by people who are
   curious about what records the various Federal law enforcement agencies
   may have on them.

   OK, how are they alike?

   Both laws afford you the opportunity ask for records maintained by the
   Executive Branch of the Federal Government only. In other words,
   records held by departments or independent agencies are covered by the
   laws, but not Congressional or court records. Records of States, which
   may have their own similarly-named laws, are not covered under these
   acts. Neither are records of private entities, although some of their
   records may be covered by other Federal and State statutes.

   Also, before filing a request under either law, you must first identify
   the agency that is most likely to have the material. There is, alas, no
   central point to which these requests may be addressed. This is perhaps
   the most important issue, and the one for which there is no easy
   answer. If you’re not sure - and most people aren’t - you may consult a
   reference librarian or talk to our National Contact Center by calling
   toll-free 1-800-688-9889 (TDD/TTY users, call: 1-800-326-2996).

   So, how do I proceed?

   If you are requesting records that may be available under the FOIA, you
   should first talk to the agency that you believe has the material. In
   many cases, the agencies make the information available free of charge
   or sell it through the Government Printing Office, the National
   Technical Information Service, or private sources. [You might want to
   see Government Publications for more guidance.] If the material is not
   sold or distributed free of charge, some agencies have no problem
   agreeing to give you something. Other agencies may insist that you must
   file a request through the agency’s FOIA office in order for you them
   to grant access to a document or to create a file for you.

   If you are requesting a file under the Privacy Act, you will nearly
   always have to make a request in writing and may have to provide
   additional proof of identity. This kind of procedure is designed to
   protect you from having personal information disclosed to anyone else.

   Is there any written guidance?

   The General Services Administration and the Department of Justice
   jointly publish "Your Right to Federal Records." You may request a
   paper copy by calling our National Contact Center toll-free
   1-800-688-9889 (TDD/TTY users, call: 1-800-326-2996), or you may view
   it and/or download it by visiting the Federal Consumer Information
   Center web site. Both a text version and an HTML version are available.
   Image of a button linking to the top of the page

   Last Updated: October 26, 2001

                 Logo of the General Services Administration
   This service is provided by the Federal Consumer Information Center of
     the U.S. General Services Administration. If you have a comment or
                question, e-mail us at catalog.pueblo@gsa.gov
