http://wsom.nws.noaa.gov/manual/CHAPTERB/NB407605.HTML

   COMMERCE IMAGE          U.S. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
                                                           National
   Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
                                                           NATIONAL
   WEATHER SERVICE
                                                           Silver Spring,
   Md. 20910

   Date:    February 19, 1976

   Reply to Attn of::      W522xl

   Subject:     Transmittal Memorandum for Operations Manual Issuance 76-5

   To:    All Holders of Operations Manual

   1.    Material Transmitted:

   Chapter B-40, Upper Air Stations.

   2.    Summary:

   This chapter describes the upper air data acquisition programs of the
   National Weather Service, including types of stations, observational
   elements, and management policies.

   3.    Effect on Other Instructions:

   OML 73-16, issued July 6, 1973, now filed with Chapter B-40 should be
   refiled with Chapter B-99.

   George P. Cressman
   Director, National Weather Service
     __________________________________________________________________

   Issue Date    Org. Code     NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE         Part
   Chap.
   2-19-76        W522x1             Operations Manual
                   B         40

                             UPPER AIR STATIONS

   Table of Contents:

   1.    Purpose

   2.    Upper Air Observational Network

           2. l    National Weather Service Stations
           2.2    NWS Cooperative Stations
           2.3    Other Types of Stations
           2.4    Type of Observations
                   2.4.1     Rawinsonde
                   2.4.2     Low-Level
                   2.4.3     High Altitude
                   2.4.4     Pilot Balloon (Pibal)
                   2.4.5     Scheduled Observations
                   2.4.6     Special Observations

   3.     Specifications of Upper Air Data Reported in Observations
   3.1    Pressure
   3.2    Geopotential Height
   3.3    Temperature
   3.4    Dew Point Depression
   3.5    Wind Direction
   3.6    Wind Speed
   3.7    Wind Shear
   3.8    Low-Level Mean Winds
   3.9    Stability Index
   3.10    Other Information

   4.     Establishment of NWS Upper Air Stations
   4.1    Network Criteria
   4.2    Station Criteria
   5.    Management of the NWS Upper Air Program

   5.1     Observational Instructions
           5.1.1    Minicomputer Computation
           5.1.2    Commercial Time-Shared Computer Computation
           5.1.3    Manual Computation
           5.1.4    ADAS Computation
           5.1.5    LO-CATE System Computation
                   5.1.6     Coding Instructions
       5.2    Authority for Setting or Altering NWS Upper Air Standards
   and Procedures
       5.3    Forms Used At NWS Upper Air Stations for Recording and
   Computing Soundings
       5.4    Required Publications at NWS Upper Air Sites
       5.5    Transmission of Data
       5.6    Priority of Observations
       5.7    Release Procedures at Airports
       5.8    Miscellaneous Station Requirements
               5.8.1     General Theodolite Test
               5.8.2     Rawin-Theodolite Comparison
               5.8.3     Civil Defense Fallout Winds
               5.8.4     Limiting Angle Zone
               5.8.5     Receipt of Instructions
      5.9    Procedures in the Event of Minicomputer Malfunction
       5.10    Quality Control of NWS Upper Air Program
                   5.10.1     NWS Field Stations
                   5.10.2     Weather Service Forecast Office (WSFO)
                   5.10.3     Regional Headquarters
                   5.10.4     Weather Service Headquarters (WSH)
                   5.10.5     National Climatic Center (NCC)
       5.11    Equipment and Supplies
                   5.11.1     Station Maintenance
                   5.11.2     Defective Supplies
                   5.11.3     Ordering Supplies
                   5.11.4     Shortages
     __________________________________________________________________

   1.     Purpose. This chapter describes the upper air data acquisition
   programs managed by the National Weather Service (NWS). The goal of
   these programs is to provide accurate and timely data on the vertical
   and horizontal distributions  of temperature, wind, pressure
   (Geopotential height), and water vapor. These data, together with
   simultaneous surface, satellite and radar observations, provide
   forecasters with a complete three-dimensional picture of the
   atmosphere.

   2.     Upper Air Observational Network. The upper air observational
   network consists of three categories of stations. These stations are
   responsible for taking a variety of upper air observations.

   2.1     National Weather Service Stations. Included in this category
   are all land stations taking any kind of upper air sounding and which
   use NWS-supplied equipment and NWS personnel  (salaries paid by NWS).
   Also included are the five Trust Territory stations where the staff,
   while not NWS are funded from NWS congressional appropriations.

   2.2     NWS Cooperative Stations. This category comprises stations
   located in foreign lands, using standard NWS supplied equipment, but
   employing native personnel (salaries paid by the native government).

   2.3    Other Type of Stations. Other types of upper air stations
   include those using equipment supplied by an agency  other than the
   NWS, but employing NWS personnel, and the  NWS ocean ship station.

   2.4     Types of Observations. The types of observations taken at upper
   air stations serve many purposes and are dependent upon the data
   required or requested.

   2.4.1     Rawinsonde. The standard rawinsonde observation serves as the
   major data source for the upper air program. Data from these
   observations are used for weather prediction and analysis, for
   meteorological research, and are exchanged internationally. These data
   provide a three-dimensional picture of the distribution of pressure,
   temperature, water vapor, and wind. The rawinsonde consists of sending
   aloft a balloon-borne instrument, the radiosonde, which telemeters
   temperature, pressure, and humidity data back to the ground station.
   Winds aloft are obtained by electronically tracking the radiosonde with
   precision radio-direction-finding equipment at the ground station. The
   standard times of observation are 0000 and 1200 GMT. Special
   observations are taken to provide additiona1 data to Federal and
   non-Federal agencies conducting meteorological research or as a further
   aid to forecasters. The rawinsonde observation is made in accordance
   with Federal Meteorological Handbook (FMH) No. 3, Radiosonde
   Observations; FMH No. 5, Winds Aloft Observations; and Instruction
   Manual, NWS Computer System (Upper Air). Coding of the elements
   observed into the upper air messages is done in accordance with FMH No.
   4, Radiosonde Code; FMH No. 6 Upper Wind Code; and Instruction Manual,
   NWS Computer System (Upper Air).  The messages are collected and
   transmitted throughout the United States primarily by means of the
   Service C teletypewriter circuits.

   2.4.2     Low-Level. The low-level observation is a sounding which
   normally terminates at the 700 mb level. It provides a vertical profile
   of wind, temperature, and relative humidity primarily for the purpose
   of observing and predicting the capacity of the atmosphere to transport
   and dilute air pollution. Taken within urban areas using visually
   tracked, slow ascent balloons for lift (the winds aloft observation
   when visually tracking the radiosonde is termed a "rabal"), the
   low-level sounding provides highly resolved and accurate data for the
   lower atmosphere. Scheduling of low-level soundings is flexible;
   generally, one or two observations are taken daily, near sunrise and/or
   in early afternoon. Special observations may be requested. Low-level
   soundings are made in accordance with FMH No. 3 and FMH No. 5 and
   encoded in accordance with FMH No. 6.  Stations with minicomputers will
   also follow instructions contained in Instruction Manual. NWS Computer
   System (Upper Air).  Dissemination of the coded messages is
   accomplished by means of the Service C teletypewriter circuits. In
   addition, the data are employed by local forecasters and may also be
   required for research projects (i.e., air pollution studies).

   2.4.3     High Altitude. The high altitude observation provides
   rawinsonde data regularly to 100,000 feet. At strategically located
   stations, special high altitude balloons are used to obtain the
   required rawinsonde data. High altitude soundings are normally taken
   only once daily, at 1200 GMT.  Other than the use of a different type
   balloon to achieve a reliable, high bursting altitude, the high
   altitude sounding is identical to the standard rawinsonde observation
   (see 2.4.1).

   2.4.4     Pilot Balloon (Pibal). Pibal observations provide low-level
   (below 20,000 feet) winds aloft information to supplement that obtained
   from the rawinsonde.  Briefly, the pibal involves visually tracking a
   small, gas-filled balloon by means of an optical theodolite.  Angular
   bearings are used in conjunction with an assumed ascent rate of the
   balloon to compute direction and speed of the winds aloft.  At those
   stations taking pibals, the standard times of observation are 0600
   and/or 1800 GMT. An on-call pibal capability is maintained by stations
   which have discontinued the routine pibal program.  Special pibals may
   be requested. Pibal observations are made in accordance with FMH No. 5
   and encoded in accordance with FMH No. 6.  Pibal data are transmitted
   on the Service C teletypewriter circuits.  At stations where the pibal
   program has been reduced to an on-call capability, it is the
   responsibility of the MIC/OIC to keep the observers proficient in
   taking the pibal observation. The MIC/OIC will also be responsible for
   ensuring that all pibal equipment is in good working order and in
   sufficient quantity.

   2.4.5     Scheduled Observations. By far, the overwhelming mass of
   upper air data results from the routine, regularly scheduled, daily
   observations taken by all stations in the NWS upper air network.
   Depending upon the type of observation taken, the standard times of
   observation are 0000, 0600, 1200, and 1800 GMT.  The actual times of
   observation (release times) will be scheduled as close as possible to
   2330, 0530, 1130, and 1730 GMT.  Except where authorized, releases will
   not be scheduled more than 15 minutes earlier nor more than 30 minutes
   later than the above release times. Releases may be made after the
   standard times of observation, but in no case later than 1 hour after
   these times.  Special observations may be made at times other than the
   standard hours of observation. The data are transmitted throughout the
   United States, in particular to the National Meteorological Center
   (NMC) in time to meet the deadlines for NMC analyses.

   2.4.6     Special Observations. Certain conditions warrant additional
   soundings (other than the regularly scheduled flights) to be taken.
   These include severe weather situations (i.e. tornadoes, hurricanes and
   typhoons, blizzards, floods, air pollution, etc.), training,
   calibration of instruments, and special research projects of agencies
   outside of the NWS.  NWS units may request special observations on an
   ad hoc basis, with notification of actions taken sent to their regional
   headquarters. Specific instructions for requesting special soundings
   are explained in WSOM Chapter B-90. Flights may also be taken for an
   outside agency, in almost all cases at that agency's expense. The
   flights paid for by an outside agency, referred to as "reimbursable"
   observations, must be approved in advance at both the regional
   headquarters and the Weather Service Headquarters levels. Depending
   upon the nature of the request, approval may be granted for an
   individual sounding or a series of soundings spread out over weeks or
   months duration.

   3.     Specifications of Upper Air Data Reported in Observations. Each
   of the elements reported in the coded message (radiosonde and upper
   wind codes) will now be briefly discussed. Details concerning the coded
   messages are given in FMH No. 4, Radiosonde Code, and FMH No. 6, Upper
   Wind Code.

   3.1     Pressure.  Pressure is reported to the nearest whole millibar
   (up to and including 100 mb) or to tenths of a millibar (above 100 mb)
   for the following levels of the sounding:

       a.     surface

       b.     tropopause

       c.     maximum wind

       d.     significant levels with respect to temperature and/or
   humidity

       e.     extrapolated termination.

   3.2     Geopotential Height. Geopotential height is reported in whole
   meters for levels up to 500 mb and in tens of meters for levels at 500
   mb and higher.  It's reported for each mandatory pressure level
   (standard isobaric surface) of the sounding and for an extrapolated
   termination level.

   3.3     Temperature. For the following levels of the sounding, air
   temperature is reported in degrees and tenths Celsius:

       a.     surface

       b.     all mandatory levels

       c.     all significant levels with respect to temperature and/or
   humidity

       d.     tropopause.

   3.4     Dew Point Depression. The measure of humidity is reported in
   the coded message as dew point depression, defined as the result of
   subtraction of the dew point temperature from the ambient air
   temperature. It's reported in whole degrees or degrees and tenths
   Celsius, depending Upon the magnitude of the depression. At
   temperatures below -40^o C, dew point depression isn't reported, since
   there is no acceptable capability to measure it with reasonable
   accuracy.  At relative humidities less than 20 percent, a single dew
   point depression (30.0) is assigned, since an accurate assessment of
   water content is difficult to obtain at the lower humidities.   Dew
   point depression is reported for the levels in 3.3.

   3.5     Wind Direction. The wind direction is reported to the nearest 5
   degrees for the following levels:

       a.     surface

       b.     all mandatory pressure levels

       c.     tropopause

       d.     maximum wind

       e.     regional and significant levels for wind.

   3.6     Wind Speed. Wind speed is reported to the nearest whole knot
   for the levels in 3.5.

   3.7     Wind Shear. The vector differences in the winds 3,000 feet
   above and below the level of maximum wind are calculated and reported.

   3.8     Low-Level Mean Winds. Mean winds for the layer from the surface
   to 5,000 feet (msl) and from 5,000 feet to 10,000 feet (msl) are
   calculated and reported (at stations within the contiguous U.S.).

   3.9     Stability Index. The stability index is a measure of the degree
   of stability of the layer of air extending from a level near the
   surface of the earth to the 500 mb surface.  Positive values denote
   stable conditions, and negative values unstable conditions. The degree
   of stability or instability is indicated by the magnitude of the
   index.  Alaskan stations will make the stability index computation from
   May 1to  September 30, inclusive.

   3.10    Other Information. Also reported are station identification
   data and data describing irregularities or difficulties in the
   sounding.

   4.     Establishment of NWS Upper Air Stations. Upper air stations are
   established to meet specific operational and scientific needs for
   data.  Certain network criteria must be met before a station may be
   established.  Once a decision is made to establish a station, its
   actual location is based on station establishment criteria.

   4.1     Network Criteria. Ideally, the optimum upper air network for
   forecasting would be one such that the spacing of stations could
   resolve all of the different scales of atmospheric motion.  In
   actuality, however, this isn't possible due to the complex nature of
   interactions between certain atmospheric phenomena. The maximum density
   of stations for general forecasting purposes is limited by:

       a.     predictability limits of the atmosphere with large-scale
   models

       b.     capacity of available or anticipated computers

       c.     budgetary and other economic constraints

       d.     observationa1 technology

   With the current state of the art, "optimum" spacing of stations over
   the contiguous United States is approximately 400 km. In the Pacific,
   spacing is largely determined by the distribution of islands. To a
   lesser extent geography also dictates station spacing in the Alaska
   Region.

   4.2     Station Criteria. Site selection for an upper air station shall
   be a Joint effort by the regional Data Acquisition and Engineering
   Divisions, in coordination with their counterparts at Weather Service
   Headquarters. Items of importance to consider when selecting the site
   are:

       a.     satisfaction of network criteria (see 4.1)

       b.     altitudes of obstructions

       c.     condition of launching area terrain

       d.     availability of areas for placement of tracking equipment,
   inflation shelter, office space, etc.

       e.     expected costs

       f.     possible encroachment on other interests, environmental
   impact, etc.

       g.     future plans for the area.

   The site of the observing equipment shall be selected in an effort to
   reduce to a minimum the probability of loss of data due to fixed
   obstructions.  Altitudes of obstructions should be less than that of
   the tracking antenna, since an obstruction may seriously affect the
   ability of the antenna to track the radiosonde whenever the angular
   altitude of the radiosonde approaches that of the obstruction. The
   launching area should be flat, smooth, and free of any obstructions
   which might hinder personnel while releasing the balloon.  Considerable
   room should be available for observers to maneuver during launches
   performed under adverse weather conditions.

   Angular altitudes of obstructions around theodolites (with the
   exception of small masts or pipes) shouldn't exceed 6 above the
   horizontal plane. Avoid installation of the theodolite in close
   proximity to chimneys so as to eliminate the possibility of smoke
   obscuring the balloon. Alternate theodolite sites may be established
   for use under varying wind conditions if a single suitable site isn't
   available.

   5.     Management of the NWS Upper Air Program.

   5.1     Observational Instructions. Upper air observations are taken
   (launch and preparation for launch) and recorded in accordance with
   instructions contained in FMH No. 3 and FMH No. 5. Instructions in this
   regard which are peculiar to the LO-CATE system are contained in
   separate publications (see 5.1.5). Specific instructions for
   computation and coding of the sounding are contained in the following
   documents:

   5.1.1     Minicomputer Computation. Computation of a sounding by
   minicomputer will he made in accordance with instructions contained in
   the Instruction.   Manual for NWS Computer System (Upper Air), No.
   9-501.

   5.1.2     Commercial Time-Shared Computer Computation. Computation of a
   sounding by time-shared computer will be made in accordance with
   instructions contained FMH No. 3 and supplemented by specific computer
   instructions.

   5.1.3 Manual Computation. Manual computation of a sounding will be made
   in accordance with instructions contained in FMH  No.3 and FMH No.5).

   5.1.4     ADAS Computation. Sounding computation using the ADAS
   (Automatic Data Automatic)n System) will be made in accordance with
   appropriate instructions prepared by Weather Service Headquarters.

   5.1.5     LO-CATE System Computation. Computation of a sounding using
   the LO-CATE (WL-3 and W-3N) system will be made in accordance with
   instructions contained in the appropriate manual as prepared by Beukers
   Laboratories, Inc.

   5.1.6     Coding Instructions. Instructions for coding are contained in
   FMH No. 4 and FMH No. 6. Specific coding instructions for the
   time-shared computer and minicomputer are found in FMH No. 3 and in
   Instruction Manual for NWS Computer System (Upper Air), respectively.
   Particulars for ADAS coding are contained in the specific system
   operating instructions.

   5.2     Authority for Setting or Altering NWS Upper Air Standards and
   Procedures.  On the national level, Weather Service Headquarters has
   the sole authority to set or alter standards and procedures for the
   upper air program. Any regional headquarters may alter or establish
   regional procedures as long as such changes don't alter or conflict
   with national policy.  Similarly, supervisors at NWS field stations may
   alter or establish local procedures as long as such changes don't alter
   or conflict with either national and/or regional operating policy.

   Field stations and regional offices may propose modifications to
   established national operating policies by means of thorough
   coordination and discussion with Weather Service Headquarters. Field
   offices shall first refer any proposed modifications to their regional
   headquarters.

   5.3     Forms Used at NWS Upper Air Stations for Recording and
   Computing Soundings. Depending upon the method employed to evaluate the
   sounding, the following forms shall be used by NWS stations taking
   upper air observations:

     a.    minicomputer and ADAS - WS Form B-62 (Rawinsonde Minicomputer
     Data)

     b.    time-shared computer - WS Form B-6 (Rawinsonde Computer Data)
     and WS Form B-7 (Rawinsonde Computer Data)

     c.    manual - MF3-31A, AA, B, and C (Adiabatic Chart), MF5-20 and
     21 (Winds Aloft Computation Sheet), and D-31 (Adiabatic Chart D-31,
     Low-Level Sounding).

   5.4     Required Publications at NWS Upper Air Sites. WSOM Chapter A-15
   contains a list of publications recommended for the station library of
   all NWS observing stations.  Included in A-15 is an explanation of the
   correct procedure to use when ordering these publications. The
   following publications should be on hand at those NWS stations taking
   upper air observations, in addition to the publications listed in A-15:

     a. FMH No. 3, Radiosonde Observations

     b. FMH No. 4, Radiosonde Code

     c. FMH No. 5, Winds Aloft Observations

     d. FMH No. 6, Upper Wind Code

     e. Instruction Manual for NWS Computer System  Upper Air), No. 9-501
     through 9-505

     f. Radiosonde Tables

     g. Pibal Computation Tables.

   These publications may be obtained from the Central Logistics Supply
   Center, Kansas City, Missouri.  It's the responsibility of the MIC or
   OIC to establish and maintain the publications library.

   5.5     Transmission of Data. Maximum effort must be made to meet the
   scheduled time for transmission of upper air data. The timely receipt
   of accurate data is not only essential to NWS operations, it's
   necessary for compliance with national and international data exchange
   agreements. The deadlines for rawinsonde data receipt currently in
   effect at the National Meteorological Center (NMC) are:


                                                NMC Deadline
                              Type of Data
                                                0000Z Reports
                                                             1200Z Reports
                              Early Transmission
                                                0115Z
                                                             1315Z
                              Part A
                                                0200Z
                                                             1400Z
                              Part B
                                                0255Z
                                                             1455Z
                              Part C
                                                0930Z
                                                             2130
                              Part D
                                                0930Z
                                                             2130Z

   To ensure receipt of data at NMC, the following methods of
   communication will be used (in priority order):

       a.     Service C or A-C-O circuits

       b.     RAWARC

       c.     Telephone.

   Methods b and c are for contiguous U.S. stations only.  The telephone
   should be used only as a LAST resort to meet NMC dead1ines.  Although
   it may be impossible at times to transmit reports on schedule, data
   communicated late will be used by NMC provided they are received within
   10 hours after observation time.  In any event, data should be
   transmitted at the earliest opportunity to meet established
   communications schedules.  If complete reports are not available at the
   scheduled time, partial reports shou1d be communicated and followed by
   complete reports when ready.  Under no circumstances should one type of
   report (e.g., TTBB) be communicated at a time specifically scheduled
   for transmission of another part (e.g., TTAA).  If this mistake is
   made, loss of the report may result.

   5.6     Priority of Observations. Where station personnel have the
   responsibility of taking both surface and upper air observations, the
   surface observations shall have priority over the upper air
   observations.  If balloon release should conflict with the time of a
   surface observation, the release wi1l be delayed until completion of
   the surface observation.

   5. 7     Release Procedures at Airports.  It's vitally important that
   correct launch procedures be strictly adhered to whenever radiosondes
   are released near or at airports.  Where possible, a "Notice to Airmen"
   (NOTAM) will be filed at least 30 minutes before the radiosonde is
   released (FMH No. 3 contains instructions for filing NOTAMS).  At or
   near airports having an operative control tower, observers will inform
   the tower 30 minutes prior to release, and arrange for clearance from
   the tower personnel by telephone or visual signal at the actual time of
   release.  Before the release may be attempted, a visual check to
   determine if the radiosonde f light train poses a threat to aircraft
   traffic is required at stations located at or near airports that don't
   have an operative control tower.

   5.8     Miscellaneous Station Requirements.

   5.8.1     General Theodolite Test.  All stations capable of taking
   pibal or rabal observations will perform the general theodolite test,
   according to instructions contained in FMH No. 5, upon receipt of the
   theodolite and quarterly thereafter.  A record of each test will be
   entered in the station log or maintenance record for the theodolite, on
   WS Form B-29, and on MF5-20 f or the next succeeding pibal or rabal
   observation in the space above "Reason for Termination." Due to the
   uncertainty of the time of the next observation, stations taking pibals
   on an "oncall" basis only aren' t required to note the theodolite test
   on the MF5-20.

   5.8.2     Rawin-Theodolite Comparison.  As soon as possible after the
   rawin equipment is installed, and at roughly monthly intervals
   thereafter, each station will take simultaneous rawin and theodolite
   observations for comparison purposes.   Instructions for taking the
   comparison are found in FMH No. 5. If possible, the comparative
   observations should coincide with, and serve the purpose of, a
   regularly scheduled observation.  If it is impossible to take a
   comparative during a given month, a continuous angle recording trace
   may be substituted for a maximum of two consecutive months.
   Instructions for evaluating the continuous angle recording trace are
   contained in FMH No. 5.  A duplicate of the time-share or minicomputer
   data inputs will be provided along with a duplicate WS Form B-17 (if a
   continuous angle trace is used, the recorder trace is substituted for
   WS Form B-17) as submissions to regional headquarters.

   5.8.3     Civil Defense Fallout Winds.  All rawinsonde stations must
   maintain the capability for computation of  fallout winds on an on-call
   basis.   One practice computation must be made at least once every 3
   months.  FMH No. 5 and WSOM Chapter I-04 contain detailed instructions.

   5.8.4     Limiting Angle Zone. The limiting angle zone for tracking and
   receiving equipment is regarded as extending 6^o  in elevation above
   the horizon or above any object (except trees) on the horizon.   For
   azimuth, the zone extends  from each side of an object.  Wind data will
   not be computed from elevation angle readings which fall into the
   limiting angle zone.  Computations using slant range instead of
   elevation angle will be acceptable even though the signal from the
   radiosonde is passing through the 1imiting angle zone.  Each station
   shall prepare a table and diagram of  the horizon seen by the antenna,
   revising and updating as conditions warrant.  Procedures for the
   preparation, alteration, and disposition of the table and diagram are
   explained in FMH No. 5.

   5.8.5     Receipt of Instructions.  Receipt of any instructions
   pertaining to upper air observations shall be acknowledged on the first
   scheduled observation after their receipt.  Automated stations will
   make notation of instruction receipt in the "Remarks" column of WS Form
   B-47, Rawinsonde Monthly Transmittal.  Manual stations  will do  the
   same under "Remarks" on MF3-31A or AA.

   5.9     Procedures in the Event of  Minicomputer Malfunction. (See
   Interim Change No. 4, Instruction Manual NWS Computer System - Upper
   Air.)  When the minicomputer is down for operational use (according to
   the criteria in Interim Change No. 4), commercial time-share backup
   will be used.  In the unlikely event both the minicomputer and time-
   share systems are inoperable, scheduled observations will not be
   taken.  For stations without time-share backup capability, and which.
   are no longer required to maintain manual proficiency, the scheduled
   observations will not be made. The station shall not resort  to manual
   computation of  the sounding after the requirement to maintain manual
   proficiency has been dropped.  However, the observer must be able to
   manually code the data messages in order to check the computer's coded
   message, and in case time-.share backup is used (coded messages are not
   produced automatically with the time-share system.)

   5.10     Quality Control of  NWS Upper Air Program. Quality control of
   the upper Air program is performed to varying degrees by:

       a.     each upper air unit

       b.     Weather Service Forecast Office (WSFO)

       c.     regional headquarters

       d.     Weather Service Headquarters (WSH)

       e.     National Climatic Center (NCC).

   Problem areas are identified and the necessary corrective action is
   instituted as a result of the monitoring activities of the above
   offices.  Various reports are prepared and submitted at regular
   intervals evaluating or documenting station performance and the quality
   of data and equipment.   A short description of the quality control
   responsibilities of the units involved will now follow.

   5.10.1     NWS Field Stations. NWS field stations are responsible for
   the initial phases of quality control. Observers are responsible for
   checking various aspects of the sounding where human error may become a
   factor (i.e., the correct selection of  levels on the recorder
   record).  The MIC/OIC must continually keep abreast of his station's
   performance and institute corrective action when and where it's
   required.   In addition, each upper air unit is required to prepare and
   submit a number of reports, some of which deal with:

       a.     performance of radiosondes, batteries, balloons, and ground
   equipment

       b.     log of the time-shared computers

       c.     inventory of  radiosondes, batteries, balloons, parachutes,
   and gas cylinders.

   Instructions for completing and mailing these reports are contained in
   FMH No. 3.

   5.10.2     Weather Service Forecast Office (WSFO). Each WSFO has on its
   staff a Weather Service Evaluations Officer (WSEO), among whose duties
   are station visitations. The visitations are designed to augment the
   regional headquarters visitation programs. With regard to upper air
   observations, the WSEO is mainly concerned with the timely
   dissemination of observational data. WSOM Chapter A-63 describes the
   WSEO's duties and responsibilities.

   5.10.3     Regional Headquarters.  Quality control at the regional
   level is handled by the Regional Upper Air Specialist. Among his duties
   are the periodic inspection of the upper air units in his region,
   followed by the preparation of a complete station inspection report.
   He's required to furnish reports to the rawinsonde offices in his
   region concerning flight performance and error rating. Each station is
   rated according to the numbers and types of errors committed by
   observers taking observations. Consistently poor ratings will
   necessitate corrective measures to be taken by the field station.

   5.10.4     Weather Service Headquarters (WSH). Weather Service
   Headquarters receives copies of the various reports prepared by the
   other units performing quality control,  and if  it deems necessary,
   recommends or institutes corrective action.  As a result of quality
   control input to WSH, the implementation or change of  NWS policy may
   be required.  WSH performs the function of   focal point for all
   matters relating to the NWS upper air program and is the final
   authority on such matters.  Through the Regional Upper Air Specialist,
   WSH is kept abreast of conditions in the field that require attention.
   A constant dialogue is maintained between WSH and the regional
   headquarters.  WSH (Office of Technical Services) is also responsible
   (in conjunction with NMC) for the real-time quality control advisory
   service.  At specified times each day, the rawinsonde reports are
   decoded and examined.  Real-time quality control advisories, which
   indicate non-receipt or errors in the data are produced and transmitted
   to the appropriate field station so that corrections may be made prior
   to the NMC analysis deadlines.

   5.10.5     National Climatic Center (NCC). Forms and records of
   soundings are examined by NCC for possible errors.  Error letters are
   forwarded by NCC to the appropriate station (with copies to the
   regional headquarters) where the observers responsible will review and
   initial all the indicated errors.  Error summaries are prepared on all
   upper air stations and sent to the various supervisory offices.

   5.11     Equipment and Supplies.

   5.11.1     Station Maintenance. Except as authorized by the electronics
   technician or other appropriate authority, and specified in FMH No. 3,
   station personnel are limited to relatively simple, basic maintenance
   of equipment.  It's important, nevertheless, that station personnel
   have a good feel for understanding the nature of the symptoms of
   possible equipment breakdown or malfunction.  The MIC/OIC should make
   certain that his personnel are knowledgeable in this regard, and with
   any corrective actions they are authorized to perform.  The MIC/OIC is
   also responsible for the upkeep of station facilities not directly
   involved with upper air observations.

   5.11.2     Defective Supplies. FMH No. 3 details actions to be taken in
   the event of the receipt of defective items.

   5.11.3 Ordering Supplies. Details on requisitioning supplies are
   contained in FMH No. 3 and FMH No. 5.

   5.11.4     Shortages. Normally, stations should have a sufficient
   supply of necessary items to continue operations for no less than 20
   days beyond the time when new supplies are expected to arrive. In the
   event that a critical shortage is expected to occur and that omission
   of observations is likely, and all normal procedures for obtaining
   supplies have been exhausted, regional headquarters shall be notified
   at least 7 days before observations are discontinued.

   WSOM Issuance
   76-5    2-19-76
