http://edworkforce.house.gov/press/press107/backtowork122001.htm

              News from the
              Committee on Education and the Workforce
              John Boehner, Chairman
              FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
              December 20, 2001    CONTACTS: Dave Schnittger or
                                   Kevin Smith
                                   Telephone: (202) 225-4527

           House Passes Second Bill to Aid Displaced U.S. Workers
   Economic Stimulus Package Would Help Displaced Workers Maintain Health
   Coverage

        WASHINGTON, D.C. --
   The House early this morning passed the Economic Growth and Security
   Act, a second economic stimulus package aimed at helping American
   families struggling with the economic aftershocks of the September 11th
   attacks. The legislation includes key elements of President Bush’s plan
   to expand the federal “safety net” for displaced workers, including
   provisions to help such workers maintain health coverage for their
   families while they’re out of work. The provisions were originally
   introduced as the Back to Work Act (H.R. 3112), authored by Education
   and the Workforce Committee Chairman John Boehner (R-OH),
   Employer-Employee Relations Subcommittee Chairman Sam Johnson (R-TX),
   and 21st Century Competitiveness Subcommittee Chairman Buck McKeon
   (R-CA).

        The Back to Work package authorizes and appropriates $4 billion in
   special National Emergency Grants (NEGs) to help displaced workers
   maintain health coverage, supplement their income, and receive job
   training as the economy recovers from its current slowdown.

        “The House has now passed two comprehensive packages to aid
   American families struggling with the aftershocks of September 11th,
   while the Senate has yet to pass any such legislation. It's time for
   the Senate to act,” said Boehner. “The legislation passed by the House
   will help ensure that thousands of displaced workers and their families
   have access to health care even as they struggle to return to work. The
   House has passed it, and the Senate should follow suit.”

        “This proposal is a compassionate one - not just because it
   provides the flexibility and resources to help workers in need, but
   because it recognizes that a displaced worker’s true goal, ultimately,
   is to return to work,” Boehner noted. “The Senate must follow the
   House’s lead and respond to the President’s call for action to help
   displaced American workers and their families.”

        The Department of Labor helps to manage the nation’s unemployment
   insurance system, providing funding of more than $30 billion to provide
   services and a steady income to dislocated workers and their families.

                Summary of National Emergency Grant Proposal

        The bill authorizes and appropriates $4 billion to make available
   special National Emergency Grants to states and U.S. territories if the
   governor certifies a major economic dislocation -- such as a plant
   closure, mass layoff, or multiple layoff, including those caused in
   part by the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks -- contributed importantly to
   the dislocations. Grants could be used by to:

     ·
     help dislocated workers and their families maintain their health
     coverage by subsidizing COBRA premiums, health care coverage in the
     individual market, or temporarily enrolling them in Medicaid or the
     State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP);

     ·
     provide additional weeks of income support for individuals who have
     used up their unemployment compensation or individuals who are
     ineligible for unemployment compensation but are able to demonstrate
     a sufficient attachment to employment -- as long as those
     individuals are enrolled in training;

     ·
     provide additional dollars to offer a full array of job search and
     training services, including customized training, placement
     assistance, and relocation expenses.

        National Emergency Grants are federal grants administered by the
   Labor Secretary, and they may be awarded to any state experiencing
   plant closings or mass layoffs. Currently, the grants may be used to
   support job training and reemployment services and to make certain
   limited payments to individuals enrolled in training. The grants also
   may be used to help pay for services such as childcare and
   transportation, to help individuals complete training and transition
   back to work.

                                    # # #

                               Press Releases
