http://coolspace.gsfc.nasa.gov/mission.htm

   [coolinfo.gif]

                             MISSION STATEMENT
   The goal of "You be the Scientist" is to increase interest and aptitude
   in the fields of math, science, and technology at the middle and
   secondary levels to develop technical literacy.
   What's Involved:
   Students receive raw, realtime satellite data that they turn into
   images on their PCs. They can enhance the data any way they wish and
   compare the products they make to those they find on the Internet. They
   have the same data the Air Weather Services use and a roomful of
   equipment built-into their desktop computers. They can get their data
   from the satellites directly, or via cable or DirecPC.
   Outcomes to Expect:
   Students are exposed to an entirely new way of learning - one that
   focuses on their questions, and provides answers at an appropriate,
   individual pace. Because the students actually have fun using the
   computers and satellite imagery, they don't even realize that learning
   is taking place. This fresh approach to in-class instruction excels in
   many areas where teachers are having trouble with students feeling
   apathetic, bored, and detached:
     * Get their attention - with exciting imagery of their Earth in
       motion
     * They start to ask questions - because they are actively involved
     * Forum for answers - teacher leverages questions into learning
     * Kids problem solve in groups
     * Learn Tech Ed by exploring science
     * Learn science playing with computers

   Hands on Technology:
   All images are received only seconds after the satellite transmits its
   data. This opens endless possibilities as students have the opportunity
   to test real-life hypotheses. Students are engaged in activities such
   as:
     * Tracking wildfires and predicting storm movements
     * Analyzing cloud temperatures with rain correlation
     * Demonstrating principles of physics and chemistry
     * Posing questions to other students around the country
     * Customizing their image products and emailing them
     * Presenting their findings in their own web pages

   Conclusion:
   Students are miraculously transformed into technological scientists as
   they use their data to solve problems, email other schools and surf the
   World Wide Web for corroborating data, and send their final image
   products over phone lines. In so doing, they gain a firm and invaluable
   understanding of the inseparable link between science and technology.

   [3Dnasa.jpg] Last Updated: 1/18/99
                NASA Point of Contact: Michael A. Comberiate
                COOLTeam: David Beverley Sr., Chris Finegan
