http://www.ferc.gov/news/news.htm

   [skip.jpg] [btnrabou.jpg] Calendar of Events Page News & Reports Page
   Press Releases Page Agenda Notice (Sunshine) Page Important Issuances
   Page Commission Actions Taken Page Speeches Page Congressional
   Testimony Page FERC ADR Newsletter Page Documents & Filing Page Legal
   Matters Page Informational Resources Page

                                 [ibtnd.jpg]

   Industries Icons
   Gas main page
   Hydro main page
   Electric main page
   Oil main page

                  The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
       Search Link Graphic E-Filing Link Graphic Records & Information
   Management System Link Graphic Commission Issuance Posting System Link
      Graphic Docket Sheets / Service Lists Link Graphic Site Map Link
                          Graphic Home Link Graphic


   News & Reports

         The Commission issues between 60 to 80 documents every day. These
      include orders, decisions, press releases, reports, notices of filings,
        etc. We have selected a sampling of these documents to highlight on
      this page. All of the documents the Commission issues may be viewed by
       accessing the Commission's Issuance Posting System.  Access the pages
         listed below by selecting the appropriate menu item at the left.
                             Agenda (Sunshine) Notice
                                Important Issuances
                             Commission Actions Taken
                    Selected Remarks & Separate Case Statements
                                     Speeches
                              Congressional Testimony
                                FERC ADR Newsletter

                    Agenda (Sunshine) Notice  -    Back To Top

      In accordance with the Government in the Sunshine Act (Pub. L. 94-409)
       5 U.S.C. 552b(e)(3), the Commission issues a notice containing a list
         of cases on the agenda for the Commission's public meetings.  The
       notice is issued at least one week prior to the date of the meeting.
      The Commission  holds its meetings approximately every two weeks.  The
      Commission's meeting schedule is available under the Calendar of Events
                           tab on the menu to the left.

                       Important Issuances  -    Back To Top

      Given the quantity of documents the Commission issues every day, only a
       few important items have been highlighted under the heading Important
          Issuances.  The Important Issuances are separated into several
      categories: rulemakings, policy statements, major orders, staff reports
      and accounting guidance.  The complete body of documents the Commission
        issues may be viewed by accessing the Commission's Issuance Posting
                                      System.

                    Commission Actions Taken  -    Back To Top

      This page lists the items upon which the Commission acted at its latest
      public meeting.  The items are identified by the docket number and the
         name of the company.  The complete history of the activity in the
         listed docket may be viewed by accessing the Commission's Records
        Information Management System.  Search the system using the docket
               number listed in the Commission Actions Taken report.

           Selected Remarks & Separate Case Statements  -    Back To Top

      You'll find selected other remarks, dissents and concurring statements
        by the FERC Commissioners on FERC Orders and energy policies here.
       Further information about the orders and energy policies can be found
              in RIMS and CIPS by searching in the indicated docket.

                            Speeches  -    Back To Top

       Speeches by members of the Commission may be found under this tab on
                                     the menu.

                     Congressional Testimony  -    Back To Top

          The text of testimony given by members of the Commission before
                 Congress may be found under this tab on the menu.

                       FERC ADR Newsletter  -    Back To Top

         Learn about the latest developments regarding Alternative Dispute
       Resolution at the Commission through the Commission's ADR newsletter
          published by the Dispute Resolution Service at the Commission.


   Privacy & Security Statement - Freedom of Information Act - Enforcement
                                   Hotline
           Disclaimers - Content Master - Web Master - Home - Top

                         Updated: DECEMBER 27, 2001
