http://toxnet.nlm.nih.gov

                  U.S. National Library of Medicine (NLM)
                                  spacer
                          Search TOXNET Databases
     Search the Chemical Carcinogenesis Research Information. Search for
       information on and chemical structures of chemicals. Search for
    information on developmental and reproductive toxicology. Search for
      information on environmental mutagens. Search for information on
    genetic toxicology and mutagenicity. Search for information on known
        hazardous substances. Search for 3-D chemistry structures of
     potentially hazardous chemicals. Search for potential human health
        effects of environmental pollutants. Search for 3-D chemistry
     structures of chemicals tested by the National Cancer Institute for
         anti-tumor properties. Search TOXLINE for the biochemical,
   pharmacological, physiological, and toxicological effects of drugs and
    other chemicals. Search the Toxics Release Inventory for data on the
   estimated annual quantities of chemicals released to the environment.
                                  spacer
                          Use other NLM resources
      Fact sheets, manuals, and sample records of the SIS chemical and
        toxicological databases. Search for information about drugs,
      pesticides, environmental pollutants, and other potential toxins.
     Access other toxicological and environmental health information web
     links. Search DIRLINE, a directory of health-related organizations.
       Search the medical literature using PubMed. Search the medical
       literature using Internet Grateful Med. Access the Specialized
   Information Services (SIS) Division Home Page. Connect to the National
    Library of Medicine Home Page. Connect to the National Institutes of
    Health Home Page. Contact the Specialized Information Services (SIS)
                                 Division.

   spacer

        Logo of the Specialized Information Services Division (SIS).

   spacer

     Welcome to TOXNET - A cluster of databases on toxicology, hazardous
     chemicals, and related areas. TOXNET NEWS. New: TRI99 now available!


     For Toxicology Data (Factual information on toxicity and other hazards
                                 of chemicals)
    HSDB
             Hazardous Substances Data Bank - Broad scope in human and animal
               toxicity, safety and handling, environmental fate, and more.
                              Scientifically peer-reviewed.
    IRIS
            Integrated Risk Information System - data from the Environmental
           Protection Agency (EPA) in support of human health risk assessment,
             focusing on hazard identification and dose-response assessment.
   CCRIS
          Chemical Carcinogenesis Research Information System - carcinogenicity,
           mutagenicity, tumor promotion, and tumor inhibition data provided by
                          the National Cancer Institute (NCI).
  GENE-TOX
              GENE-TOX - Peer-reviewed mutagenicity test data from the EPA.

   spacer


       For Toxicology Literature (Scientific studies, reports, and other
                           bibliographic material)
 TOXLINE
               Extensive array of references to literature on biochemical,
         pharmacological, physiological, and toxicological effects of drugs and
                                    other chemicals.
  EMIC
         Environmental Mutagen Information Center - Current and older literature
                        on agents tested for genotoxic activity.
DART/ETIC
         Developmental and Reproductive Toxicology and Environmental Teratology
         Information Center - Current and older literature on developmental and
                                reproductive toxicology.

   spacer


      For Toxic Release Information (Annual estimated releases of toxic
    chemicals to the environment - the Environmental Protection Agency's
                      TRI (Toxics Release Inventory)
    TRI
           Toxics Release Inventory - reporting years 1995 - 1999.

   spacer


     For Chemical Information (Nomenclature, Identification, Structures)

                                 ChemIDplus
    Numerous chemical synonyms, structures, regulatory list information,
        and links to other databases containing information about the
                                 chemicals.
                               HSDB Structures
              2D structural information on the HSDB chemicals.

                                   NCI-3D
    2D and 3D information compiled by the National Cancer Institute, and
                              augmented by MDL.

   spacer

   TOXNET is sponsored by the National Library of Medicine, through the
   Toxicology and Environmental Health Information Program of its
   Specialized Information Services Division.

   TOXNET Privacy Notice
   For more information, please contact: tehip@teh.nlm.nih.gov
   For reporting problems, contact: Webmaster
