http://xanth.msfc.nasa.gov

                                 header bar

                           X-Ray Astronomy at MSFC

   CXO Project Science page
   Welcome to X-Ray Astronomy at Marshall Space Flight Center, Huntsville,
   Alabama. This page introduces the two main emphases of our work:

   Chandra Project Science and Research in X-Ray Astronomy.

   The Chandra X-Ray Observatory (CXO), depicted at left, is the third of
   NASA's Great Observatories. Chandra is managed by MSFC. The
   Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics operates the Chandra X-Ray
   Observatory Center and the Education and Public Outreach site from
   Cambridge, MA.

   Chandra Project Science, led by the CXO Project Scientist, Dr. Martin
   Weisskopf, and his team provide scientific and technical oversight of
   all aspects of the CXO development , a leading scientific role in the
   CXO Calibration , and special studies and analyses as needed.

   Chandra was launched from Space Shuttle Columbia on 23 July 1999.
   Chandra has since returned spectacular pictures and spectra of
   high-energy phenomena in astronomical objects such as that from the
   Crab Nebula shown at right. Here is the latest Chandra News from
   Marshall Space Flight Center Newsroom. Our own investigations using
   Chandra data include the Crab Pulsar and Nebula, SN 1993J and its host
   galaxy M81, and the cluster of galaxies Abell 1995. The signatures
   galaxy clusters leave in the cosmic microwave background is used to
   measure the age and geometry of the universe through the
   Sunyaev-Zel'dovich Effect.
   CXO Project Scientist

   MSFC X-ray Balloon Program
   Another aspect of our ongoing research at MSFC is the development of
   x-ray optics & detectors in support of our balloon flight program and
   in preparation for future space missions. The team had a very
   successful balloon flight this spring of the first-ever hard X-ray
   focussing optics experiment. Check here for details and pictures of the
   Spring 2001 campaign. Marshall's payload included High-Energy
   Replicated Optics focussing x-rays up to 50 keV onto Gas Scintillation
   Proportional Counter detectors. Also on board was an X-Ray Capillary
   Optics module.

   X-ray Astronomy Group personnel are involved in additional mirror
   development efforts, including support for future space missions
   Constellation-X and the Micro-Arcsecond X-Ray Imaging Mission (MAXIM).
   Mirror and detector testing often utilizes MSFC's world-class X-Ray
   Calibration Facility (XRCF). Several X-Ray Detectors have been built
   and flown in the past.

   The members of our group have adapted, to html format, a collection of
   our presentations on topics in x-ray astronomy of general interest and
   assembled many of our recent scientific papers in pdf format for those
   interested in the more technical aspects of our research.

   Editor: Dr. Douglas Swartz
   System Administrator: Mr. Bob Dean
   NASA Official: Dr. Frank Six      CXO Project Science page

                                                             Valid HTML 3.2!
