http://www.coast2050.gov

                               [LAsmall3a.gif]

   [2050logo.jpg]
   [listtop.gif]

                           One Voice, One Mission



   Public Area
   Event Calendar
   Study Milestones
   Maps
   Reports
   Press Releases
   Survey
   Related Links
   Request Info
   Points of Contact
   LA Wetland Values
   [listbottom.GIF]
   [space.gif]

   [listtop.gif]
   Technical Area

                                (restricted)

   [listbottom.GIF]


   [left_tip.gif] Coast 2050 Feasibility Study [right_tip.gif]
   THANK YOU FOR YOUR INPUT!
   Thank you for coming to the three public meetings and providing your
   input to the plan formulation process. We had three very successful
   meetings! Please follow the link below to see the latest versions of
   the measures descriptions and maps.

   WaterMarks Cover The Coast 2050 Feasibility Study is  featured in the
   October 2001 issue of WaterMarks. Read the articles here...

                                                              PDF (1.2 MB)
   Alternative Measure Descriptions and Maps under consideration

   [left_tip.gif] Project Overview [right_tip.gif]

   Wetland loss in coastal Louisiana has reached catastrophic proportions,
   with current losses of 25-35 square miles per year. Since the magnitude
   of the problem was identified in the 1970s, we have gained much insight
   into the processes that lead to wetland creation and destruction. The
   disappearance of Louisiana’s wetlands threatens the enormous
   productivity of its coastal ecosystems, the economic viability of its
   industries, and the safety of its residents. The wetlands support
   various functions and values, including commercial fisheries;
   harvesting of furbearers and alligators; recreational fishing and
   hunting; ecotourism; critical migratory butterfly, songbird and
   waterfowl habitat; endangered and threatened species habitat; water
   quality improvement; navigation and waterborne commerce; flood control;
   buffering protection from storms; and the perpetuation of a unique
   culture that has developed in this beautiful and bountiful area of the
   country. (from Coast 2050: Toward a Sustainable Coastal Louisiana)

   Coastal Louisiana is important to the local and national economies
   through oil and gas production, the number one port complex in the
   Nation, and international seafood and recreation industries. The
   infrastructure that supports these activities is interwoven with the
   unique ecosystem created by the Mississippi River in south Louisiana.
   Additionally, major flood control and river control civil works
   structures located in coastal Louisiana play an important role in
   providing for its habitation. Without these measures in place, it would
   be impossible for south Louisiana's stakeholders to facilitate upper
   river basin development, agribusiness, water supply, flood control, and
   navigation on the river and its tributaries. Increasing environmental
   awareness has led many to recognize the relationships of local and
   national development to losses being incurred by Louisiana's coastal
   wetlands and barrier shorelines.

   In 1998, the State of Louisiana and its Federal partners approved a
   coastal restoration plan entitled Coast 2050: Toward a Sustainable
   Coastal Louisiana. That document presented strategies jointly developed
   by Federal, State, and Local interests to address Louisiana's massive
   coastal land loss problem. For the first time, solutions were proposed
   to address fundamental ecosystem needs in order to prevent the loss of
   this natural treasure. By implementing the plan’s regional ecosystem
   strategies, it is envisioned that a sustainable ecosystem will be
   restored in coastal Louisiana, in large part by utilizing the same
   natural forces that initially built the landscape.

   While the ultimate goal for coastal restoration under the Coast 2050
   plan is to implement strategies throughout coastal Louisiana, the
   Barataria Basin is in dire need of immediate attention. On February 18,
   2000, the USACE and LADNR signed a historic agreement to initiate
   large-scale action to restore this basin. The Barataria Basin has a
   very high rate of wetland loss, estimated at about 11 square miles per
   year from 1978-1990 (Fuller et al. 1995). Nevertheless, it has
   tremendous potential for restoration because of nearby sediment
   resources in coastal bays, the Mississippi River, and in Federal and
   State waters of the Gulf of Mexico.

   Most of the strategies in the Barataria Basin are dependent on the
   overall input, movement, and circulation of water, sediment, and
   nutrients in the basin, but some strategies can be implemented largely
   independently of these considerations. These include barrier shoreline
   restoration (Strategy R2-22), marsh creation in the southwestern basin
   (Strategies R2-16 and R2-17), and a delta-building diversion from the
   lower Mississippi (Strategy R2-11). These strategies can be implemented
   as separable activities, independent of other strategies in the
   Barataria Basin and coastal Louisiana. This study will develop plans to
   submit to the United States Congress requesting authorization and
   construction funding for ecosystem restoration in the Barataria Basin
   under the Water Resources Development Act.



                         [left_tip.gif] Project Components [right_tip.gif]

                       Click to see full size (190KB)
        Barrier Shoreline Restoration from Belle Pass to Sandy Point

                       Click to see full size (226KB)
                Wetland Creation in southwest Barataria Basin



                         Coast2050 Feasibility Study
     New Orleans District of the US Army Corps of Engineers   Louisiana
                       Department of Natural Resources
    Site Maintained by US Geological Survey - National Wetlands Research
                                   Center

     Please report problems with this site to coast2050@condor.nwrc.gov
