http://www.catalysis.anl.gov

   DOE Catalysis Research
   Home Related Links Catalytic Processes Waste Minimization Alternative
   Feedstocks Advanced Techniques

   photo

   Privacy and
   Security Notice
     DOE Catalysis Research

   Catalysts change the rate of chemical reactions without being changed
   themselves. The catalytic process reduces the amount of energy needed
   for reactions to occur, thus making them more efficient. The economic
   importance of catalysis lies in the reaction chemistry that enables
   production of commodities such as petroleum products, plastics,
   pharmaceuticals, automobiles and chemicals.

   About 90% of all chemical manufacturing processes and more than 20% of
   all the industrial products produced in the United States depend on
   underlying catalytic steps. Of the top 50 commodity chemicals, 30 are
   created directly by catalysis, and another 6 are made from raw
   materials that are catalytically produced.

   The U.S. Department of Energy is focusing on research that will result
   in new, more efficient, cost-effective catalysts and catalytic
   processes to reduce both energy use and environmental effects:
     * Producing the top 50 commodity chemicals requires about 5 quads
       (quadrillion BTUs) of energy per year, 3 quads of which are needed
       for catalytic processes. If the yields of catalytic processes were
       maximized, the energy needed to produce these 50 chemicals could be
       reduced by 0.47 quad. Even a 10% improvement would save 0.23 quad
       per year.
     * Producing the top 50 commodity chemicals releases an estimated 20.9
       billion pounds of CO2 into the atmosphere either directly or via
       unwanted by-products that are later incinerated or converted.
       Increasing catalytic process efficiency is the key to reducing
       these emissions.


   DOE research concentrates
   on the following areas:
     * Catalytic Processes
     * Waste Minimization
     * Alternative Feedstocks
     * Advanced Techniques

                             Abstracts from the DOE Laboratory
                             Catalysis Research Symposium
                             February 24-25, 1999, Albuquerque, NM
                               * Heterogeneous Catalysis
                               * Homogeneous Catalysis
                               * Posters

       Home | Send Comments | Disclaimer | Security Notice
