http://birmingham.fbi.gov

 Agency Alliance

                Community

                          Birmingham - FBI's Most Wanted

                                                                                         Programs

                                                                   Territory

                        Birmingham, Alabama Downtown

                         Welcome to the Magic City!

                             Charlene B. Thornton
                           Special Agent in Charge

                           Alton Sizemore, Jr.
                  Acting Assistant Special Agent in Charge

                                 Craig Dahle
                            Media Representative

     The Birmingham Division is represented by 71 special agents and 73
                       professional support employees.
   These employees are assigned to six squads and four resident agencies.
   Our territory includes 32 counties in the Northern District of Alabama.

   The Mission of
   Birmingham Division

   To conduct thorough and unbiased investigations, provide training and
   services, and perform related
   activities within the jurisdiction of the FBI which are in the best
   interest of law enforcement and the people of the Northern District of
   Alabama. The
   mission will be accomplished through the united efforts of our special
   agents and support personnel.

                                  Birmingham

     Skytowers of Birmingham

    Office Hours

   Although the FBI operates 24 hours a day,
   seven days a week, our business hours are
   8:15 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday.
   If you need to speak to an FBI representative outside of our business
   hours, you may telephone the office at 205/326-6166.

   Our address is 2121 8th Avenue North, Suite 1400, Birmingham, Alabama
   35203

                       FBI Home Page, Washington, D. C.

                           Other FBI Field Offices

      Use of the name, initials or seal of the FBI is restricted by law
