http://laserweb.jpl.nasa.gov

        jpl.gif (412 bytes) alsg.gif (4800 bytes) [BurstaniE151.gif]



                          [earth_off.jpg]
                                           [archive_off.jpg]


                [planet_off.jpg]
                                                  [personnel_off.jpg]

    Christopher R. Webster (Group Leader), Stephanie Blueford (Secretary)
  Gregory J. Flesch, Robert L. Herman, Ram Vasudev, Katy Modarress, Linley
                              Kroll, Ron Howe,
          James E. Swanson, J. Jesse Landeros, W. Stephen Woodward

    ^JPL's Atmospheric Laser Spectroscopy Group seeks to understand the
    photochemistry, dynamics, and evolution of Earth and planetary atmospheres
    through interpretation of in-situ measurements of gas, particulate, and
    mineral composition using state-of-the-art laser spectrometers built by the
    group.  Over the last 17 years we have conceived, designed, and built a
    variety of tunable diode laser (TDL) and Quantum-Cascade (QC) laser
    spectrometers that have flown on balloon, aircraft, and spacecraft
    platforms.  Laboratory spectroscopy and instrument miniaturization programs
    have produced high-sensitivity spectrometers weighing less than a
    kilogram. We have used tunable laser absorption to make atmospheric
    measurements of numerous gases including balloon measurements of NO, NO2,
    O3, H2O, CO2, CH4, N2O, 13CH4, HDO, HCl, HNO3; and aircraft measurements of
    HCl, NO2, N2O, CH4, H2O, CO, 13CO2, and O3.
    For Earth studies of stratospheric chlorine and nitrogen photochemistry, and
    of atmospheric transport, field measurements include: BLISS (balloon, 12
    flights); ALIAS (ER-2-aircraft, 250+ flights); JPL-Laser Hygrometer (ER-2
    aircraft, 40 flights; DC-8 aircraft, 30 flights); ALIAS-II (balloon, 8
    flights); ALIS for isotopic CO2.  These instruments have participated in 8
    major field campaigns for NASA (AASE-II, SPADE, ASHOE, STRAT, POLARIS,
    CAMEX-3, SOLVE, CAMEX-4) from 1991 through 2001 out of Texas, California,
    Maine, Alaska, Florida, Brazil, Hawaii, New Mexico, Fiji, New Zealand and
    Sweden.  Our next field campaign will be to measure water isotopes using
    ALIAS and JPL-LH for CRYSTAL-FACE in 2002.

    ^For planetary applications, we have developed spectrometers based on mid-IR
    and near-IR TDLs, and room-temperature QC lasers: the PIRLS instrument for
    the Cassini Titan Probe; the MIRLS instrument for Mars photochemistry
    developed for lander and Mars Airplane applications.; two near-IR laser
    spectrometers for Mars H2O and CO2 sent to Mars as part of the Mars 98
    Surveyor's (MVACS) payload; and the Mars Organic Detector (MOD) that we
    expect to be part of the Mars 2007 Lander payload.  In addition, we are
    developing room-temperature mid-IR Quantum Cascade Laser Spectrometers for
    Mars, Titan, Venus, and Europa, and are part of JPL's Grand Challenge
    Project studying biogenic gases and their isotopic ratios as signatures of
    extraterrestrial life.

                             [BurstaniE151.gif]

   [jplsmall.gif]   [tinycitlogo.gif]     [nasaball-icon.gif]

                                                 Jet Propulsion Laboratory
                                                        4800 Oak Grove Ave
                                                         Mail Stop 183-401
                                                        Pasadena, CA 91109

   Last updated: November 12, 2001.

                   Go back to main home page http:// laserweb.jpl.nasa.gov
