http://www.frtib.gov

   FRTIB Seal Image FEDERAL RETIREMENT THRIFT INVESTMENT BOARD

       Electronic Reading Room   FRTIB Electronic Reading Room

       Procurement Information   FRTIB Procurement Information

       Employment Opportunities   FRTIB Employment Opportunities



   Web Privacy Policy

                                              FRTIB Web Site Outage

Welcome to the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board's (FRTIB) Business
                                  Home Page

   The FRTIB was established as an independent agency by the Federal
   Employees' Retirement System Act of 1986 (Click on the underlined words
   to go directly to the FRTIB's legal authority at 5 U.S.C. 8472).  It is
   one of the smaller Executive Branch agencies, with just over 100
   employees.  It was established to administer the Thrift Savings Plan
   (TSP), which provides Federal employees the opportunity to save for
   additional retirement security.  The TSP is a tax-deferred defined
   contribution plan similar to a private sector 401(k) plan.  The TSP is
   one of the three parts of the Federal Employees' Retirement System
   (FERS).  (Click on the underlined words to go directly to the rules
   governing the FRTIB located in 5 CFR Parts 1600 - 1699.)  If you want
   to learn more about the TSP or find answers to questions about how it
   works, we encourage you to visit the TSP Web site at www.tsp.gov.  If
   you are a TSP participant or a Federal employee, you may also contact
   your personnel office for more information.
   This Home Page gives you access to FRTIB information about the
   Electronic Reading Room, Procurement Information, and Employment
   Opportunities.  Our documents are best viewed with Netscape 3.0 and
   printed with 12 point Courier New font.

                            Navigation Bar Image

  Homepage | Electronic Reading Room | Procurement | Employment | Privacy |
                                 Site Outage

                        Webmaster: webmaster@tsp.gov
                  209.215.32.75; Last Update: May 24, 2001
