http://www.ntis.gov

   NTIS is your source for government R&D results


   BEST SELLERS

   Are you new to NTIS?

       Product Types
        Audiovisuals
   Computer Products
           Databases
       Subscriptions

             About Us
   How NTIS Helps You
        Contacting Us
      Events/Exhibits
              Privacy

   How we help agencies

   Need help? We need your comments

   FirstGov.gov


   Electronic Delivery of Government Reports


   Search   Quick Order

                                                               Right Arrow

   Government Web Sites from FedWorld
   Browse top sites, a catalog of science and technology sites, or search
   millions of web pages

                                                               Right Arrow

   Place Your Order - Check on availability
   and order online

                                                               Right Arrow

   Pickup Your Download - Retrieve previously purchased downloads
   E-mail Announcements

                                                               Right Arrow

   FREE Best Seller Announcement  - Receive e-mail about new featured
   products

   Featured Products
   World News Conntection World News Connection®
   Compiled by intelligence experts, WNC is comprised of hundreds of
   non-U.S. media sources to give an unfltered view of what is happening
   in a specific country or region. New Media Source — Al Zaman, a
   London-based independent Iraqi daily.
     [irscdrom.jpg] Year 2001 Federal Tax Products from the IRS
   This CD-ROM will include current and prior year forms, publications,
   and bulletins. Reserve your copy today!
   Medicine
   Energy

   NEW WEB RESOURCE!
   Locate Key Government Science and Technology Web Sites
   This new site provides the scientist, engineer, and technologist with
   easy, one-step access to valuable U S Government resources. Includes
   information for the science aware citizen. www.scitechresources.gov


   [library-of-congress-logo.gif] Custom Information Research Service from
   the Library of Congress
   Gain an insider's access to the largest collection of open-source
   information in the world — this service puts the professional research
   staff of the Library of Congress' Federal Research Division to work on
   your information gathering needs with this in-depth research service.

      The National Technical Information Service is the U.S. Government's
      central source for the distribution of scientific, technical,
      engineering, and related business information. This information is
      produced by or for the U.S. Government and complementary material from
      international sources. Well over 2 million products are available from
      NTIS in a variety of formats, including microfiche, paper, diskette,
      audiovisual, CD-ROM, and online.

      | Search | Customer support | Products | About NTIS | Site index | Home
                                         |
        | Services for agencies | Review order | Pickup download | Privacy
                              statement | Feedback |

   US Department of Commerce Seal

                                  U.S. Department of Commerce
                                  Technology Administration
                                  National Technical Information Service
                                  Springfield, Virginia 22161
                                  (703) 605-6000
                                  http://www.ntis.gov
      - 01/30/2002
      ASCII Files Keywords: current, government information, library and
      information sciences, reference materials, foreign information,
      sci-tech, business information, federal government, abstracts,
      bibliographic information, publications, cd-roms, audiovisuals,
      datafiles, databases, scientific and technical information,
      engineering, online bookstore, ntis, national technical information
   service, cosati, epa, defense, dod, energy, doe, nasa
