http://leonid.arc.nasa.gov

   meteor-airborne-science-live


                                       search:
   __________ Go

                              enter Leonid site

     * Leonid forecast
     * Estimate your rate
     * info@meteors
     * Leonid storm history
     * Leonid images

                             enter mission site

                                 LEONID MAC

     * Mission brief
     * Meet the researchers
     * Publications

                               enter ILW site

     * International Leonid Watch
     * Media information

   Curators:
                              Peter Jenniskens
                            Maj. Steven J. Butow
                         Responsible NASA Official:
                                 Wendy Dolci
                                    NASA
                            Ames Research Center
                          [NASA Privacy Statement,
                                 Disclaimer,
                      and Accessibility Certification]

                                Last Updated:
                              December 11, 2001

                        counter Traffic on this site
                           is measured by NedStat


   Last Updated: December 11, 2001: First mission results

                                 Leonid news

                                Mercury cover

                       Article on Leonid MAC research.

   LEONID SHOWER DAZZLES OBSERVERS WORLDWIDE

   Shooting stars flashed across the sky by the thousands and fireballs
   exploded in bursts of brightness as the Leonid shower lived up to
   forecasts across the United States and turned into a true meteor storm.
   In the Bay Area, thousands of avid sky watchers jammed state parks and
   remote hillsides to catch their first sight of the spectacle - David
   Perlman (SF Chronicle)

   LIVE REPORTS

   Check out first reports and near-real time flux measurements at these
   sites:
   Leonid MAC Homepage
   Leonid MAC mirror site

   REPORT YOUR COUNTS HERE

   If you made meteor counts during the 2001 Leonid storm, report your
   1-minute counts using this special FORM.

   USribbon

                           LEONID MAC Mission news

                               meteor sequence

                 Three snapshots of a bright Leonid meteor.

   THE DEVELOPMENT OF METEOR MORPHOLOGY IN HIGH-SPEED IMAGING

   High speed imaging has now for the first time shown details in the head
   of a meteor that reveil the dimensions and shape of the sources of
   light that make a shooting star. In a series of unique images obtained
   by Leonid MAC participant Prof. Hans Stenbaek-Nielsen of the University
   of Alaska, a meteor is seen to develop from a ball of light into a an
   object with a bow shock and a tail. These results were unveiled in a
   standing-room only special session "The 2001/2002 Leonid meteor storms"
   at the Fall Meeting of the American Geophysical Union in San Francisco
   on December 11, 2001.

   meteor detail Left: detail of the meteor at frame number 400.

   Prof. Nielsen used an unusual intensified high frame-rate camera,
   specially designed for sprite observations. This camera records video
   images at a rate of 1000 frames per second. Nielsen observed from a
   site at Poker Flat Research Range, 30 miles north of Fairbanks, and had
   to continually watch a video screen to catch the meteor in flight. The
   images shown above are frames #200, 300 and 400 from a 463 millisecond
   sequence of a bright Leonid meteor at 10:42:59 UT, November 18. These
   are false-color images. The originals are in black-and-white only. The
   red color is chosen arbitrarily to highlight contrast. The frames are
   cropped in horizontal direction. The vertical field of view is 6.4
   degrees.

   The meteor starts as a very localized ball. Then it brightens and
   develops a tail, and one can clearly see the shock set up around the
   front.

   "Our images for the first time confirm that most meteor light comes
   from a bright plasma just behind the meteoroid," says Leonid MAC PI Dr.
   Peter Jenniskens of the SETI Institute at NASA Ames Research Center.
   This confirms conclusions made indirectly from spectroscopic studies in
   prior Leonid MAC missions. "The images now provide dimensions of the
   gas cloud behind the meteoroid", says Jenniskens, "and tell us how long
   organic molecules have to endure a hot plasma before cooling down".
   Just behind the gas cloud, a wake develops that is thought to be due to
   green forbidden line emission of OI at 557.2 nm.

   Jenniskens believes that the bow shock may be a consequence of the
   plasma cloud growing to sizes larger than the mean-free path in air at
   altitude. "This emission may be responsible for some of the ionised
   emissions of Mg+ and Ca+ that are observed in bright Leonids", he says,
   "more so when the meteoroids are larger". The pictures for the first
   time show the meteor's bow shock.

   A total of 8000 scientists gathered in San Francisco for the fall AGU
   meeting. The special Leonid storm session was organised by Jenniskens
   in collaboration with Prof. Chet Gardner of the University of Illinois.
   Presentations included this and other first results of the 2001 Leonid
   campaign, new modeling of meteor physical processes, studies of the
   erosion of organic matter in meteoric plasma, the expected mass
   distribution of Leonid meteoroid fragments, and the announcement that
   tiny 1 nm sized dust grains of recondensed vapor may now have been
   detected in the upper atmosphere.

   Further Leonid MAC news

   banner
