http://www.cold.ca.gov


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                       DGS Home
                       9-1-1 Instructions
                       Dialing Information
                       California Orgchart
                       Agency Information
                       Employee Information
                       Help FAQ
                       Contact Us
                       Department of General Services



   Department of General Services (DGS), Telecommunications Division



   California On-Line Directory

   The California On-Line Directory is a service provided by the
   Telecommunications Division of the Department of General Services. The
   On-Line Directory is designed to improve access to government
   information and services for state employees, local government and the
   general public. The directory services will include 'White Pages,'
   'Yellow Pages,' and State Government Organization Charts, as well as a
   keyword search.

   The 'White Pages' provide a search function for telephone numbers and
   Internet addresses of state agency employees (as determined for
   inclusion by each agency). Information agents are available to assist
   you at (916) 657-9900.

   This Directory is a work in progress. The services implemented so far
   are:
    The 'Yellow Pages,' a locator function for each state agency,
       displaying its organizational structure and pertinent contact
       information.
        State of California Organizational Charts, depicting the structure
       of California State Government, its agencies, boards and
       commissions.
        Keyword Search, a tool to use familiar words to locate related
       state agencies, e.g., Driver License = Department of Motor Vehicles
       etc.


    Directory Services:
        CA On-Line Directory, White Pages Employee Information
        CA On-Line Directory, Yellow Pages Agency Information Selector
        CA On-Line Directory, Yellow Pages Agency Information Keyword
       Search

   Back to Top of Page
   © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
   Privacy Policy
