http://www.cmr.nist.gov

                           [USEMAP:headerDST.jpg]

                             thin vertical line


                               Welcome to the
                    Distributed Systems Technology Group
                                  Homepage

   The Distributed Systems Technology Group is part of the Convergent
   Information Systems Division (CIS) of the National Institute of
   Standards and Technology (NIST).

   Our interests focus on performance measurement methods to support
   massively parallel systems; these include multi-processor machines as
   well as systems of networked workstations. We are interested both in a
   hardware approach (the MultiKron Project) and a software approach (the
   S-Check Project). Another area of research (the Scalable Computing
   Testbed Project) investigates scalable computing using emerging network
   and workstation technology.

   More recently, the group has shifted its focus to Enhanced Digital TV.
   NIST will participate (the Digital TV Project) in the development of
   the reference implementation, conformance tests, and reference
   applications for the ATSC T3/S17 Digital TV Applications Software
   Environment (DASE) standard. Initial effort will focus on the reference
   implementation.

   Scalable parallel computing, in which problems are broken into parts
   and solved simultaneously by many processors rather than sequentially
   by one processor, constitutes a growing fraction of high end computing.
   Yet the technology is still immature; large-scale parallel programming
   is not easy and system features are not firmly established. Parallel
   architecture is also a technology bellwether --it now appears widely in
   the form of systems of networked workstations as well as in less
   expensive workstations. Adapting the process to work on different kinds
   of hardware is difficult.

   The NIST Distributed Systems Technology project is investigating
   performance measurement that promotes High-Performance Computing and
   Communications (HPCC) scalable systems.

   Its projects focus on:
     * HARDWARE: In cooperation with DARPA, NIST has designed and built
       the MultiKron VLSI chip series and support boards for measuring the
       performance of advanced processors and very high speed networks.
       Such accurate measurement permits researchers to understand the
       source of performance bottlenecks and therefore learn how to scale
       their system designs upwards. Intel Paragon systems incorporate
       concepts from MultiKron.
     * SOFTWARE: With DARPA support, NIST has devised a novel measurement
       technique Synthetic Perturbation Screening and developed it into a
       software tool, S-Check, for assaying processing bottlenecks in
       parallel code. Besides solving code bottleneck assessment in a
       sound mathematical manner, the tool's powerful measurement
       principles are independent of any particular parallel system,
       language or computational algorithm.
     * CLUSTERS: While advent of LAN-clustered workstations promises
       flexible, inexpensive and scalable computing, these dividends today
       elude most scientific users. The attractions of networked
       workstation architectures are abundantly clear: (i) incremental
       upgrading, (ii) personal, custom immediacy, (iii) large scale
       recovery of mostly unused cycles in institutional workstations and
       (iv) tantalizingly low compute costs. The state-of-the-art offers a
       unique opportunity to explore networked workstations in the context
       of more advanced, moderately-priced interconnection schemes such as
       ATM (asynchronous transfer mode) and ever-swifter RISC (reduced
       instruction set computer) workstations. NIST has started the
       Scalable Computing Testbed Project to explore such issues.
       Both NIST hardware and software approaches address current concerns
       in achieving the economic promise of cheap massively parallel
       systems.
     * ENHANCED DIGITAL TV: The goal of this project is to support the
       digital TV industry by providing a reference implementation of
       their proposed DTV Application Software Environment (DASE)
       Application Programming Interface (API). This standard API provides
       a common platform where broadcast applications are assured to run
       correctly on DASE compliant receivers. DASE benefits both content
       providers and receiver manufacturers. The NIST DASE API reference
       implementation is intended as a tool to (1) demonstrate proof of
       concept of the DASE standard, (2) provide the impetus for
       conformance testing, (3) aid the design and development of other
       DASE implementations, and (4) provide an environment for developing
       and testing DASE contents/applications. The NIST reference
       implementation will serve as the benchmark implementation upon
       which other implementations can be compared to confirm adherence to
       the DASE specification.

                     Privacy Statement/Security Notice
                              Disclaimer | FOIA

                          NIST is an agency of the
                         U.S. Commerce Department's
                         Technology Administration.

              Web page comments to: webmaster@cmr.ncsl.nist.gov

                           Date created: 3/28/2001
                           Last updated: 3/28/2001
