http://www.sc.egov.usda.gov


   [usdalogo.jpg]
        Home
        FAQs
       eForms
        Help
    Search USDA
   Helpful Links


   United States Department of Agriculture
   USDA eCommerce Home
   View eCommerce Updates & New Features
   Updated Thursday, July 12, 2001
   Welcome to the United States Department of Agriculture eCommerce Web
   Site!
   For information on how to use this site, please click the Help link in
   the menu located on the left side of this page.
   New user to the USDA eCommerce site?
   This site hosts Electronic Services offered by the Farm Service Agency
   (FSA), Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS), and the Rural
   Development (RD) Agencies of the United States Department of
   Agriculture.
   One service currently available on this site is electronic forms. Forms
   commonly used by customers of FSA, NRCS, and RD are available here and
   can be accessed by clicking on the "eForms" button on the left side of
   this page.
   Another service the USDA has implemented is the capability to search
   USDA Service Center Agency sites by specific keyword and agency (Farm
   Service Agency, Natural Resources Conservation Service, and Rural
   Development).
   Additional services will be added in the future.
   This is an Official United States Government system, which may be used
   only for authorized purposes. Unauthorized modification of any
   information stored on this system may result in criminal prosecution.
   The Government may monitor and audit usage of this system, and all
   persons are hereby notified that use of this system constitutes consent
   to such monitoring and auditing. Visit the legal information and
   disclaimers page, the privacy policy page, and the links disclaimer
   page for more information.

   USDA Frequently Asked Questions

   Access USDA eForms

   View General eCommerce Updates

   View General eCommerce Help

   USDA eCommerce Home Page

   View Helpful Links Page

   USDA Home Page

   USDA Search Page
