http://dms.dot.gov

                             [USEMAP:newdms.gif]
                            [USEMAP:newbar3.gif]
              Welcome to the Docket Management System Web Site

      United States Department of Transportation Privacy and Disclaimer
                                   Notice

   If you are a first time user of the DMS Web, we invite you to read the
   "Introduction to DMS Web" section of our DMS Frequently Asked Questions
   (Help) pages. In these sections you will get information on how the DMS
   Search pages work and exactly how to do a search. If, at any time, you
   find you need help with any part of the DMS Web just look for the blue
   and white question mark symbol . This will take you to the help page
   for that specific topic.

   Viewing the Docket/Document image you select is also part of the DMS
   Web. If you cannot view an image, you will be able to get help with our
   step by step guide on how to install a TIFF viewer , if you do not
   already have one on your computer.

     New User Support System
   Our new user support system will help answer any questions you may
   encounter that are not featured in our DMS FAQ page. Use this page to
   send us your question or problem and we'll respond with assistance you
   may need.

     Services we provide to Government agencies
   Please take a moment to read about the services available for those of
   you in Government agencies. This will give you valuable information
   about how we can serve you in meeting your information management
   needs.

      Search the DMS Web
    Search for Docket and Document information that has been submitted to
    the Docket Management System. If you're not sure how to perform a
    search go to the Search Help page for step by step instructions.
      DMS Web Help
    Go here for help with any section of the DMS Web. Find information on
    how to perform a search, how to install a TIFF viewer, or how to send
    an Electronic Submission.

      Electronic Submission
    This is our new on-line site for making Docket Submissions to the
    Docket Management System.
      DMS Web Reports
    Up-to-date information on Dockets filings.
      Links to Other Agencies
    Provides access to the Web sites of other DOT agencies.

                            [USEMAP:newbar3.gif]

                             DMS2000 29-MAR-2000
