http://www.familysupportcenter.maricopa.gov

    Family Support Center
    Clerk of the Superior Court in Maricopa County


                                                Articles
                   * Children’s
                     Bill 0f Rights
                   * What Parents
                     Need to Know
                   * It’s Never too
                     Late
                   * PQ Key
                     Parents Quiz
                   * Resources
                   * Parents
                     on the Seesaw:
                     Ups & Downs

                                              Ties & Knots

                                             Tying Up a Plan

                                              Dads Count...

                                             And So Do Moms

                 Videos

                                            Acknowledgements

    Family Ties and Knots

                                                                      Home

   [fscsmall.gif]

   Dear Parent,

   The processes of separation and divorce are among the most difficult
   that mothers and fathers may face, whether by choice, or not. While
   parents make emotional and financial adjustments, and create plans for
   the best ways to co-parent, they can easily miss signals relating to
   the children's needs or concerns. .

   It is important for parents to try to imagine what it must feel like
   for a child to lose the comforts of ritual and routine which include
   both parents, and to lose trust, even on a temporary basis. It is also
   normal for children to lose self-confidence during this transition, and
   to lose their sense of security, which may be the most traumatic of
   all.

   Kids can ultimately feel like they lost their childhood if they are
   forced to deal with adult issues, or have to assume responsibilities
   prematurely. Children, like their parents, need time and consideration
   in order to re-establish a sense of balance.

   Parents do not need to go through the terrible hurts of separation or
   divorce alone, without support. In fact, those who may be able to
   understand what you are experiencing, better than anyone else, can be
   other parents who have been there, and particularly professionals who
   have also experienced this type of crisis or challenge!

   Numerous resources, including Family Support Center, are available to
   provide problem-solving and decision-making support as parents consider
   options about their future, and that of their children.

   Sincerely,

   Michael K. Jeanes
   Clerk of Superior Court
   Maricopa County
   [shim.gif] [fsctop.gif]
