http://www.ibb.gov


   Voice Of America
   VOA News Now
   WORLDNET
   Radio/TV Marti
   IBB Affiliates

   Freedom Of Information Act
   IBB Office of Civil Rights
   IBB Personnel
   IBB Monitoring

   International Crime Alert
   On The Line

   Polio Eradication Project
   Interference Reducing Antenna

   The IBB

   The Broadcasting Board Of Governors

                           INTERNET PRIVACY POLICY

   We will collect no personal information about you when you visit our
   website unless you choose to provide that information to us.

   Information Collected and Stored Automatically
   If you do nothing during your visit but browse through the website,
   read pages, or download information, we will gather and store certain
   information about your visit automatically. This information does not
   identify you personally. We automatically collect and store only the
   following information about your visit:
    1. The internet domaine (for example, "xcompany.com" if you use a
       private Internet access account, or "yourschool.edu" if you connect
       from a university's domaine) and IP address ( an IP address is a
       number that is automatically assigned to your computer whenever you
       are surfing the Web) from which you access our website;
    2. The type of browser and operating system used to access our site;
    3. The date and time you access our site;
    4. The pages you visit;
    5. If you linked to this website from another website, the address of
       that other website.

   If You Send Us Personal Information
   If you choose to provide us with personal information by sending an
   e-mail to us, or by filling out a form with your personal information
   and submitting it through our website, we use that information to
   respond to your message and to help us get the information you have
   requested. We do not collect personal information for any other
   purposes. Moreover, we do not create individual profiles with the
   information you provide or give this information to any private
   organizations. Nor do we collect information for commercial marketing.

   We would share your e-mail with another federal government agency only
   if your inquiry related to that agency or if we were required to do so
   by law. In addition, we would release documents, including e-mails, if
   required to do so by a congressional or judicial subpoena.

   Disclaimer
   We may link to external sites that help us perform our mission or
   illustrate news reports. Links to external servers do not imply any
   official Voice of America endorsement of the opinions or ideas
   expressed therein, or guarantee the validity of the information
   provided. Links to commercial sites are in no way an endorsement of any
   vendor's products or services. Links will be provided to external
   servers that are managed in a professional manner (i.e., it is fully
   operational, is available most of the time, does not serve inaccurate
   information or obscene graphics, etc.). This server will not link to
   external servers if such a link would appear to provide an official
   endorsement of fundraising efforts or lobbying for a political agenda.
