http://carstad.gsfc.nasa.gov/topics/multhyp.html

                    MULTI- and HYPERSPECTRAL IMAGING PAGE

                 (See also Listing of Available Instruments)
   Under Construction



   This page will eventually contain a full listing of multispectral and
   hyperspectral sensors available for airborne remote sensing



   The following entries have been compiled from the World Wide Web and
   other resources. They have not been reviewed or edited. If they should
   be corrected or modified, please notify the webmaster.
   Mail to CARSTAD : carstad@staac-mail.gsfc.nasa.gov

   Articles on hyperspectral imaging excerpted from various publications.


   Commercial

   AIG  We are a value-added analytical Earth remote sensing company
   offering contract research, image processing and analysis, and field
   verification. Our specialty is advanced hyperspectral remote sensing,
   but our experience spans all types of remote sensing instruments and
   analysis, including panchromatic images; multispectral VNIR, SWIR,
   MWIR, and LWIR data; single-frequency SAR; and advanced multifrequency,
   polarimetric SAR, systems.
   F. A. Kruse, AIG Limited Liability Company, 4450 Arapahoe Ave, Suite
   100, Boulder, Colorado 80303, Phone: 303-604-2844, FAX: 303-665-6090,
   Email: info@aigllc.com http://www.aigllc.com/

   Since 1992 Airborne Data Systems, Incorporated has been designing and
   manufacturing digital imaging systems both nationally and
   internationally. Our system, called Spectra-View®, is an airborne
   multi-spectral digital remote sensing system complete with Differential
   GPS and ring laser Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU) attitude systems.
   Spectra-View® is built to accommodate either 4- or 5- band acquisition.
   It can acquire images at one meter resolution at speeds in excess of
   250 MPH. With power consumption under 300 watts and weight less than 67
   pounds this system is ideally suited for small aircraft.
   http://airbornedatasystems.com/

   AutoVision is integrating the latest camera and computer technologies
   into automated color measurement and imaging inspection systems. Our
   line of machine vision products can analyze and extract information
   from your parts to control quality, production, and assembly for
   factory automation.
   http://www.autovision.net/hyper.htm

   Borstad Associates Ltd. offers remote sensing services to the
   environment and mining sectors using satellite and airborne sensors. We
   have been providing mapping, monitoring and consulting services world
   wide since 1983. http://www.borstad.com/

   Airborne/SAR Remote Sensing in Canada  The synthetic aperture radar
   (SAR) is in service on board a Convair 580 aircraft. Operating at C and
   X bands, the C/X-SAR is a sensor developed for use by the research and
   development community.
   http://www.neonet.nl/ceos-idn/datasets/CANEMRCCRSAIRSAR.html

   DuncanTech's intelligent digital cameras provide a new level of
   performance for electronic imaging applications. Our 3-CCD
   Multispectral and Color Cameras are available in both linescan and
   progressive scan area formats. We also have high resolution single CCD
   digital cameras in RGB color and monochrome formats.
   http://www.duncantech.com/

   Ekwan Technology Corporation was established in April, 2000 to bring
   the most advanced airborne hyperspectral technology to commercial
   application throughout the world. The corporate vision became reality
   in early 2001 when Ekwan completed the construction of a narrow swath
   hyperspectral imager (profiler) called Ekwan-1.
   http://www.ekwantech.com/

   ESSI offers commercialized hyperspectral imaging systems to map
   minerals on the earth's surface. These images can reveal valuable
   information to facilitate mineral exploration or environmental
   research. http://www.earthsearch.com/

   FLIGHT LANDATA, INC. (FLI) is a high technology company specializing in
   remote sensing. The company has over five years of corporate experience
   in providing thematic airborne data acquisition services and innovative
   hyperspectral/multispectral airborne imaging systems for government and
   industrial customers. We support remote sensing applications in
   agriculture, forestry, environmental study, GIS, mapping, defense,
   scientific research, light & heavy industry, as well as a multitude of
   other terrestrial and oceanographic science applications. We also
   provide conventional film remote sensing services.
   http://www.flidata.com/

   Hyperspectral Aerial Imaging and Analysis for Environmental, Commerical
   and Military Applications. Remote sensing with FLIR and SAR.
   http://www.galileo-gp.com/

   HyperSpectral Sciences, Inc., joined NASA's Environmental Research
   Aircraft and Sensor Technology (ERAST) Alliance in 1996 to develop and
   integrate advanced airborne scientific sensor systems. HSI offers
   hardware and software expertise for the design, development,
   integration and flight operations of lightweight scientific payloads,
   avionics, and telemetry systems on both manned and unmanned aircraft.
   http://www.hyperspectral.com/

   Integrated Spectronics is a privately owned, Australian company
   established in September 1989 with the objective of developing,
   manufacturing and marketing electro-optical instrumentation. The
   company's initial objective was to develop high performance,
   spectrometer-based instrumentation for earth resources remote sensing
   and in-situ sampling as applied to mineral exploration and mining. The
   company is now expanding its market base by developing and marketing
   multispectral imaging systems and application specific spectrometers
   for use in research, environmental monitoring and industrial process
   control.
   INTSPEC Manufactures portable NIR spectrometers and airborne
   hyperspectral scanners. Instrument applications in mineral exploration,
   HYMAP environmental monitoring and renewable resource assesment.
   http://www.intspec.com/

   Geoterrex-Dighem is one of the largest, most experienced airborne
   geophysical service group in the world. http://www.dighem.com/

   High Sense Geophysics believes in providing the highest quality remote
   sensing airborne geophysical data to industry and government in a fast,
   safe and economical manner. It intends to maintain its front running
   status www.highsense.com - High-Sense Geophysics Limited - CA
   http://www.highsense.com/

   HyVista Corporation offers a complete hyperspectral survey service to
   its customers. From planning to implementation to data processing to
   field follow-up, we work in close collaboration with our client to
   ensure mission success. http://www.hyvista.com/

   ITRES Research Limited is a company whose mission is to deliver
   innovative solutions (primarily based on airborne optical remote
   sensing) through development and provision of remote sensing products
   and systems, based on proprietary instrument and analysis technology
   and an intimate understanding of customer needs. http://www.itres.com/

   The sensor network MEDUSA (Multispectral Environment Data Unit for
   Surveillance Application) enables a regular monitoring of waters
   regardless of optical visibility, an inspection of reported oil
   pollution, securing evidence regarding polluters and providing support
   for the ships assigned to combat pollution.
   http://www.medusa.uni-bremen.de/umwelt97/abstract.html

   Microcosm, Inc. has developed a robust, compact hyperspectral imager
   (HSI) suitable for low-light applications. This patented technology
   provides accurate spectral information from each pixel in a spatial
   image with high photon throughput. The HSI answers the need for a
   practical and cost-effective imaging spectrometer for any application
   requiring rapid parallel acquisition of highly resolved concurrent
   spectral and spatial information
   http://www.microcosm.com/hsi.html

   NGIS (Australia) Pty Ltd now offer comprehensive remote sensing and
   image processing services to the Mining and Exploration, Land
   Information and Environmental industries. The team at NGIS have
   experience in remote sensing applications including monitoring the
   marine environment and geological interpretation.
   http://www.ngis.com.au/remote.htm

   OKSI specializes in the development of turn-key electro-optical sensor
   systems covering the UV, VNIR, SWIR, MWIR, and LWIR.
   http://www.techexpo.com/WWW/opto-knowledge/

   Skyborne is the world leader is designing and operating sophisticated
   optical remote sensing systems for global air pollution monitoring. An
   airborne system designed and built by Skyborne is currently the world's
   most sensitive airborne lidar system. This tunable lidar system is able
   to detect a wide variety of air pollutants including: nitrogen dioxide,
   sulphur dioxide, ozone, benzene, and mercury vapor.
   http://www.skybornelidarsystems.com/

   Spectral Imaging Ltd.  (SPECIM)  Welcome to the thrilling world of
   imaging spectrometry!  Spectral Imaging Ltd. is dedicated to develop,
   produce and market imaging spectrometry instrumentation for industrial
   machine vision and spectral analysis, airborne remote sensing and
   scientific applications.  The AISA Airborne Imaging Spectrometer is a
   commercially produced inexpensive hyperspectral pushbroom type imaging
   spectrometer system.
   http://www.specim.fi/

   Spectral Applied Research is a Canadian research and development
   company. We make aerospace-quality photonic instruments, with a
   specialty in hyperspectral imagers. Our core competency is optical
   instruments. We offer routine calibration and metrology services and
   products, as well as tailored research and development services.
   http://www.spectral.ca/

   StellarNet's miniature fiber optic spectrometers, industrial process
   probes, optical fibers, light source accessories and SpectraWiz®
   software are process control and QC monitor workhorses for analytical
   instrumentation designed to measure light wavelength absorbance,
   transmission, reflection, color, emission, irradiance, and
   fluorescence. Measurements for ranges in the ultraviolet (UV
   190-400nm), Visible color (VIS 350-850nm), short-wave Near Infrared
   (NIR 500-1200nm), and Near Infrared (XNIR 1200-1600nm) are easily
   performed by our portable EPP2000 (parallel port interface) or ISA2000
   (PC plug-in card) fiber optic spectrometers.
   http://www.stellarnet-inc.com/home.htm

   In the search for energy and in the quest to protect our environment,
   TEEMS -- Texaco Energy and Environmental Multispectral Imaging
   Spectrometer -- performs superbly. TEEMS is a special scanner. This
   unique, remote-sensing device uses ultraviolet, visible and infrared
   portions of the electromagnetic spectrum to collect data that reveals
   oil deposit sites. It also creates a detailed map of each site's
   environment. It can, for example, identify environmentally sensitive
   areas that should be avoided during operations. TEEMS is housed in an
   airplane outfitted with special radar -- advanced synthetic aperture --
   spectrometer and onboard workstation. Built by the Geophysical and
   Environmental Research Corporation, TEEMS marries spectrometer
   technology with exploration and environmental needs. It can cover
   hundreds of kilometers a day, gathering information for use at Texaco's
   3-D Visualization Center. There, geoscientists map surface structures,
   determine seismic program locations and pinpoint drilling sites. The
   environmental plus: TEEMS provides a data baseline that helps to
   determine the environmental impact of oil field operations. It can
   provide data on stressed vegetation that often serves as an early
   warning of potential problems. It can provide real-time, day or night,
   monitoring of an oil spill in any kind of weather. 3901 Briarpark,
   Houston, TX 77042 Alfredo Prelat tel: (713-954-6000) fax: (713)
   954-6911 http://www.texaco.com/shared/utility/docs/smap_nojs.html

   3DI integrates geographic technologies for the best in spatial data
   solutions: Photogrammetry/Mapping, Services, GIS/Professional Services,
   Remote Sensing, Aerial Photography, Cartography. 29111 Newnam Road
   Easton, MD 21601 Phone: 410/820-4363 Fax: 410/820-5613 Info@3dillc.com
   http://www.3dillc.com/


   Institutional

   Airborne Imaging Spectroscopy at DLR the German Aerospace Center
   http://www.op.dlr.de/dais/

   The Image Capture Unit (ICU) has been developed and flown by the
   Division of Ecosystem Management at the University of New England. The
   ICU is
   compact comprising two boxes, each about the size of a shoebox. The
   system can carry up to eight cameras, each with its own dedicated frame
   grabber. In its
   current configuration, the system has four Sony industrial cameras
   mounted in a small box and a library of 10 filters covering various
   parts of the spectrum from
   450 - 850 nm.
   http://www.ecoman.une.edu.au/Rollings/Icu/paper111arsc9.html     and
   http://www.ecoman.une.edu.au/ibrmsal/icu.htm

   Governmental

   WP-3D Remote Sensors  A suite of two airborne remote sensing
   instruments are available on the WP-3D aircraft for the purpose of
   measuring surface winds in and around tropical cyclones.
   http://aoml.noaa.gov/hrd/HRD-P3_remote.html


   Articles on Hyperspectral imaging


                              CARSTAD Home Page

             This page was last updated Friday, January 18, 2002
