http://www.msnd.uscourts.gov/application_for_membership_as_neutral.pdf

   RESET FORM ADR Form 1 (12/2000) 1 UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT Southern
   DISTRICT OF MISSISSIPPI APPLICATION FOR ENROLLMENT IN COURT'S PANEL OF
   NEUTRALS Name: Age: Firm Name: Office Address: Tel: City: State: ZIP
   Fax: E-Mail: 1. Date admitted to The Mississippi Bar: Bar No: 2. Are
   you a member in good standing in The Mississippi Bar? Yes No 3. Have
   you ever been part of any legal proceedings, civil or criminal,
   charging you with moral turpitude or commission of a crime; or have you
   been disbarred, suspended from practice or otherwise disciplined by any
   court or administrative body; or have any proceedings been commenced
   against you by any court, administrative body, bar association, or
   grievance committee; or have you ever been refused admission to any bar
   or court? Yes Attach to this application an affidavit giving complete
   details. No 4. Date admitted to the bar of this district court: 5. List
   other courts, bars, or professional associations to which you have been
   admitted: ADR Form 1 (12/2000) 2 6. Circle the areas of legal practice
   or experience which best describe the majority of your legal practice
   and show the number of years of experience in each. U Yrs U Yrs U Yrs
   Admin. Law Contracts Insurance Law Admiralty Construction Law Labor Law
   Antitrust Law Criminal Law Medical Malpractice Asbestosis Civil Rights
   Oil & Gas Banking Law Debtor/Creditor Personal Injury Bankruptcy
   Employment Products Liability Computer Law Environmental Securities
   Other (specify) MEDIATION TRAINING 10. a. Hours of mediator training
   completed: b. Date(s) of mediator training, course provider, and
   summary of course content: Date Course Provider Content c. Have you
   ever conducted mediation under the observation of another trained
   mediator? ADR Form 1 (12/2000) 3 No Yes Date(s): Where? Summarize the
   event: 11. Have you ever trained mediators? Yes When? No MEDIATION
   EXPERIENCE 12. Number of mediation observations: Summarize the
   experience(s): Number of mediation sessions held to date: Summarize the
   session(s): 13. References as to your mediation skills, training,
   education, or other qualifications: 14. Other references: ADR Form 1
   (12/2000) 4 I certify that the information provided in this application
   is true and correct. Date: Applicant's Signature Mail completed
   application to either of the following clerks: Clerk, U.S. District
   Court Clerk, U.S. District Court 245 East Capitol Street, Suite 316 911
   Jackson Avenue, Room 369 Jackson, Mississippi 39201 Oxford, Mississippi
   38655
