http://ast.faa.gov/pdf/moa.pdf

   MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT BETWEEN DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE AND FEDERAL
   AVIATION ADMINISTRATION ON SAFETY FOR SPACE TRANSPORTATION AND RANGE
   ACTIVITIES MOA on Safety for Space Transportation and Range Activities
   I. PURPOSE This Memorandum of Agreement (Agreement) explains the roles
   and responsibilities of the Department of the Air Force (AF) and
   Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for overseeing safety of
   commercial space launch and reentry. II. SCOPE This Agreement applies
   to launch (including launch processing at a launch site in the United
   States) and reentry, carried out within the United States or by a
   United States citizen, as overseen, licensed and regulated by the
   Federal Aviation Administration's Associate Administrator for
   Commercial Space Transportation, through delegation of authority from
   the Secretary of Transportation and pursuant to 49 United States Code
   (U.S.C.) Subtitle IX -- Commercial Space Transportation, Ch. 701,
   Commercial Space Launch Activities, 49 U.S.C. 70101-70121 (Chapter
   701). This Agreement does not alter or otherwise modify the roles and
   responsibilities delineated by statute or national policy for the AF or
   FAA. III. AUTHORITY A. The Department of Transportation is authorized
   to enter this agreement in the exercise of its responsibility to
   license and regulate commercial space transportation activities
   established by Chapter 701. The Office of the Associate Administrator
   for Commercial Space Transportation (AST) within the FAA acts on behalf
   of the Secretary of Transportation in carrying out the Department's
   statutory responsibilities regarding commercial launch and reentry. B.
   The Air Force is authorized to enter this agreement in the exercise of
   its responsibility to conduct the affairs of the Department of the Air
   Force as specified in 10 U.S.C. Chapter 803. In addition, as the owner
   and operator of the two primary space launch bases and ranges at Cape
   Canaveral Air Force Station, Florida, and Vandenberg Air Force Base,
   California, the AF has the responsibility for ensuring that activities
   at those facilities do not unreasonably endanger public health and
   safety, and safety of property. C. In accordance with Federal
   Acquisition Regulation 17.500(b), the Page 1 of 11 MOA on Safety for
   Space Transportation and Range Activities Economy Act, 31 USC Section
   1535, provides authority for intra-agency transactions of supplies or
   services when more specific statutory authority does not exist. D. 14
   Code of Federal Regulations (C.F.R.) Ch. III, part 417 (Part 417)1 and
   the range safety requirements of Eastern and Western Range Requirement
   (EWR) 127-1 or equivalent contain specific guidance applicable to all
   FAA-licensed launches from AF launch ranges. IV. OBJECTIVES The
   Parties' objectives entering into this Agreement are to: A. Continue
   current cooperation between the AF and FAA regarding licensed launch
   and reentry activities; B. Minimize the regulatory burden on the U.S.
   commercial space sector by clearly delineating federal agency
   requirements and oversight responsibilities, thereby precluding
   unnecessary overlap and duplication; and C. Provide an agreed to and
   stable framework for the U.S. space launch industry. V. DEFINITIONS
   This Agreement contains terms defined in Chapter 701, Section 70102.
   The terms include launch, launch vehicle, launch site, person, reentry,
   reentry vehicle, and reentry site. Additional terms used in this
   Agreement are defined as follows: A. Federal launch range: a launch
   site owned and operated by the government of the United States from
   which launches routinely take place or where government facilities,
   services, and organizations routinely support launches originating from
   within the operational boundaries thereof. These include federally
   owned and operated sensor and command and control capabilities
   necessary to safely conduct space launch and reentry operations and to
   test and evaluate ballistic missiles and other systems. AF space launch
   ranges are federal launch ranges and consist of the Eastern 1 Detailed
   requirements in part 417 are contained in a notice of proposed
   rulemaking. 65 Fed. Reg. 63921 (Oct. 25, 2000). Although not effective
   yet, that proposed version of part 417 describes the FAA's current
   practice. Page 2 of 11 MOA on Safety for Space Transportation and Range
   Activities Range, headquartered at Patrick Air Force Base and primarily
   located at Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, and the Western Range,
   headquartered at Vandenberg Air Force Base. B. Non-federal launch site:
   a launch site located outside of any federal launch range, the
   operation of which is licensed by the FAA. C. Licensed launch operator:
   any person licensed to conduct a launch under Chapter 701. When the AF
   carries out a launch for the AF or the U.S. Government, the AF is not a
   "licensed launch operator" and does not require a license. D. Licensed
   launch: a launch conducted by a U.S. citizen or within the U.S. which
   is authorized by the FAA in accordance with Chapter 701. E. Government
   launch: a launch the Government carries out for the Government. In
   accordance with Chapter 701, Section 70117(g), a Government launch is
   not licensed by the FAA. VI. COMMON SAFETY REQUIREMENTS FOR LAUNCH The
   AF and the FAA will work together to achieve common safety requirements
   for launches. These requirements will be codified in the Code of
   Federal Regulations (14 C.F.R. Ch. III, Part 417) through FAA
   rulemaking. AF implementation of the common safety requirements as they
   apply to launches from AF launch ranges and any AF unique requirements
   will be reflected in Eastern and Western Range Requirements (EWR) 127-1
   or equivalent. The AF and FAA will coordinate activities to ensure
   compliance with the common safety requirements for all FAA-licensed
   launches from AF launch ranges. A. The FAA will rely on AF safety
   processes for the review of all licensed launches from AF launch ranges
   for compliance with the common safety requirements, provided that the
   FAA's baseline assessments of the AF launch ranges (developed according
   to section VII[A]) find that the AF safety processes, procedures, and
   requirements implemented for each licensed launch satisfy Part 417. B.
   The AF will accept any FAA determinations made under paragraph (A) with
   regard to licensed launch operator compliance with Part 417
   requirements, and the FAA will accept any AF determinations made
   regarding launch operator compliance with Page 3 of 11 MOA on Safety
   for Space Transportation and Range Activities EWR 127-1 or equivalent,
   consistent with section VI(D) and (E). C. The AF and the FAA will
   develop, maintain, and implement a process for communication with
   respect to interpretations of safety requirements common to EWR 127-1
   and Part 417 as they apply to Government and FAA-licensed launches
   respectively. This process will be implemented for the following as
   they apply to Government and FAA-licensed launches: i. New launch
   vehicle systems; ii. New configurations of existing launch vehicle
   systems; and iii. Requests from any launch operator for a waiver,
   deviation or meets intent certification. Such requests shall result in
   notification of the other agency. The other agency may request
   additional information as it deems necessary. D. For a licensed launch
   from an AF launch range, the FAA recognizes that it does not have the
   authority to waive or grant deviations to any AF launch range
   requirements contained in EWR 127-1 or equivalent. Further, for a
   non-licensed launch from an AF launch range, the FAA recognizes that it
   has no authority over the requirements contained in EWR 127-1 or
   equivalent, regardless of the source. E. For a licensed launch, the AF
   recognizes that it does not have the authority to waive or grant
   deviations to a Part 417 safety requirement whether or not that
   requirement is contained in EWR 127-1 or equivalent. Further, for a
   licensed launch, the AF recognizes that it has no authority over the
   requirements contained in Part 417, regardless of the source. If a
   licensed launch operator requests a waiver, deviation, or meets intent
   certification from the AF for a Part 417 requirement, the AF will
   notify the commercial launch operator that it must apply to the FAA for
   an appropriate determination under its FAA license. The AF will also
   notify the FAA of the request. The AF and the FAA will coordinate to
   resolve any known waiver, deviation, or meets intent issues related to
   the common safety requirements prior to the Launch Readiness Review
   (LRR). F. The AF and the FAA will share, to the greatest extent
   possible, launch vehicle safety and performance data common across
   licensed and non-licensed launches for the purposes of maintaining an
   accurate baseline concerning common systems' safety and performance.
   Page 4 of 11 MOA on Safety for Space Transportation and Range
   Activities VII. RANGE OPERATIONS A. FAA Baseline Assessments of AF
   Launch Ranges. The FAA's Baseline Assessment of each AF launch range,
   as outlined in Annex A and available through the FAA space
   transportation web site, provides a basis for the FAA's reliance on the
   adequacy of the safety related launch property and services provided by
   the AF to licensed launch operators. These Baseline Assessments are
   essential to the FAA's fulfillment of its regulatory responsibilities
   in regard to licensing commercial launch operations from AF launch
   ranges. To ensure that each Baseline Assessment accurately reflects the
   situation and conditions under which proposed operations would take
   place at an AF launch range, the AF and FAA agree to the following: i.
   The AF will notify the FAA in advance of changes or modifications
   proposed to any of the areas of a Baseline Assessment outlined in Annex
   A. This notification is for the purpose of updating areas of the
   Baseline Assessment as identified in Annex A. FAA concurrence is not
   required as a condition to proceed with baseline changes. ii. The FAA
   will notify the AF in advance of changes or modifications proposed to
   either the scope or content of a Baseline Assessment. iii. Specific
   mechanisms will be developed and maintained to ensure that the FAA and
   the AF are informed in advance of such changes and to permit the AF to
   review the Baseline Assessment of an AF launch range for accuracy. iv.
   The FAA will work with the AF as appropriate to address issues raised
   on a case-by-case basis with any licensed launch operator regarding
   safety issues at an AF launch range B. Licensed Launch Go/No-Go. The
   FAA has the responsibility and authority to oversee the conduct of all
   licensed launches and may prohibit, suspend, or end immediately a
   licensed launch prior to flight if at any time the FAA determines such
   launch is detrimental to public health and safety, safety of property,
   or any national security or foreign policy interest of the United
   States. The AF has responsibility for Page 5 of 11 MOA on Safety for
   Space Transportation and Range Activities public health and safety,
   property (either public or private) and any national security interest
   of the United States and will exercise its authority to prohibit, hold,
   or end a launch if safety or other requirements are not fully
   satisfied. For commercial activities on AF-managed federal launch
   ranges, each party fully recognizes the authority of the other and
   neither party will allow operations to continue over any objections of
   the other. i. For FAA-licensed launches from an AF launch range, the AF
   and the FAA will coordinate and support their respective activities to
   ensure that applicable requirements of both agencies are satisfied for
   each launch. ii. At AF launch ranges, the AF will provide that support
   it agrees is necessary to facilitate this coordination and for the FAA
   to carry out its responsibilities during readiness reviews and the
   launch-count. The FAA and the AF agree that this support is a launch
   service under Chapter 701. Support of the FAA under this paragraph will
   not result in a net cost to the AF. iii. The AF and the FAA will
   jointly develop and implement subordinate agreements to fulfill the
   goals of paragraph VII(B) at AF launch ranges. The agreements will
   incorporate the following elements: a) Provisions for appropriate FAA
   and AF representatives to remain in communication to ensure that both
   agencies are informed of all issues arising prior to the final Launch
   Readiness Review (LRR) that could affect their respective roles and
   responsibilities; and b) Provisions to promote the full integration of
   the FAA into the LRR and the launch count process for all licensed
   launches. This includes providing the FAA personnel the necessary
   on-console communications capability to keep appraised of countdown
   status with two-way connectivity to the Launch Decision Authority (LDA)
   and commercial launch Mission Director (MD) to ensure clear lines of
   communication between agency representatives during the launch-count.
   In the event that the FAA makes a determination to prohibit, suspend,
   or end immediately a licensed launch prior to launch, the FAA will,
   time permitting, notify the MD that the launch is no longer authorized.
   If time does not permit, the FAA will call a hold in accordance with
   Page 6 of 11 MOA on Safety for Space Transportation and Range
   Activities established range procedures. The agreement will further
   identify the communications equipment and protocols to be used. The AF
   and the FAA acknowledge their responsibility to provide on-console
   personnel that are appropriately trained to perform their associated
   duties. The FAA and the AF agree that this support is a launch service
   under Chapter 701. Support of the FAA under this paragraph will not
   result in a net cost to the AF. VIII. NATIONAL AIR/SPACE MANAGEMENT A.
   Collision Avoidance (COLAs). For the purposes of this MOA, COLA is
   defined as that analysis which is run against habitable orbiting
   objects to ensure their orbits do not conflict with the intended flight
   path of a launch or reentry vehicle in time and place. i. The FAA will,
   upon issuance of a launch license, inform HQ Air Force Space Command
   (AFSPC) that a licensed launch operator is eligible for COLA analyses.
   ii. The AF and FAA will work together to formulate appropriate
   subordinate implementation agreements concerning processes, procedures,
   and points of contact for collision avoidance for FAA licensed reentry
   activities. iii. The AF will work with U.S. Space Command (USSPACECOM)
   to assure COLA analysis is performed for all habitable orbiting objects
   prior to each licensed launch or reentry. For habitable orbiting
   objects, all launch-holds resulting from the COLA analysis are
   mandatory. iv. The AF and FAA concur that providing a COLA required by
   the FAA for a commercial launch license is a launch service under
   Chapter 701, and, in accordance with Chapter 701, the AF will charge
   licensed launch operators for that service. B. Altitude Reservations
   (ALTRVs). i. The AF will be responsible for preparing a request for
   moving or Page 7 of 11 MOA on Safety for Space Transportation and Range
   Activities stationary ALTRVs for all launches and reentries at AF
   launch ranges. The AF will forward the ALTRV request to the FAA's Air
   Traffic Control System Command Center (ATCSCC) Central Altitude
   Reservation Function (CARF). The AF will format the request in
   accordance with FAA Order 7610.4, Special Military Operations. ii. The
   FAA will utilize existing processes and guidelines for ALTRVS for
   commercial launch and reentry activities at non-federal launch sites.
   iii. For licensed launches from non-federal launch sites, the FAA will
   resolve airspace clearance issues. For launches from federal launch
   ranges, the FAA and AF will develop procedures for resolving issues
   that arise in both national and international airspace. IX. SPACE
   TRANSPORTATION AND RANGE PARTNERSHIP In accordance with their
   respective obligations, the FAA and the AF will cooperate to solidify
   and expand their partnership for the safety of all U.S. launches. A.
   Roles and Responsibilities Regarding Licensing Process. The FAA has
   authority to issue a license to a U.S. citizen conducting a launch in
   the U.S. or a foreign territory, to anyone launching from U.S.
   territory and to a foreign entity controlled by a U.S. citizen
   launching outside the territory of any nation. The FAA exercises this
   responsibility consistent with public health and safety, safety of
   property, and the national security and foreign policy interests of the
   United States. In determining whether to issue a license, the FAA
   conducts a process that includes pre- application consultations with
   the prospective applicant, an interagency policy review, a safety
   review and approval, a payload review and determination, a maximum
   probable loss determination that is used to set financial
   responsibility requirements, and an environmental review. Once the FAA
   receives and accepts a license application that it deems sufficiently
   complete to commence review, the FAA is required by statute to make a
   license determination within 180 days in accordance with 14 C.F.R.
   413.15(b). i. In order to expedite the FAA licensing process and ensure
   public safety, the FAA and the AF agree to exchange information and
   data as needed regarding Page 8 of 11 MOA on Safety for Space
   Transportation and Range Activities proposed FAA licensed launches,
   including, but not necessarily limited to, Maximum Probable Loss (MPL)
   data, MPL analyses, safety waiver requests and approvals, and changes
   affecting Baseline Assessments. ii. For a licensed launch from an AF
   launch range, the FAA and the AF will: a. Recognize that EWR 127-1 or
   equivalent applies to all launches from AF launch ranges and,
   additionally, that Part 417 requirements apply to all FAA licensed
   launches; b. Share information regarding proposed launches; c. Document
   each issue related to public safety and its resolution for a proposed
   launch, and make available all findings to each other upon request; and
   d. Notify each other of any specific change to the proposed launch that
   may alter or change any previously conducted analysis or conclusion.
   iii. For a licensed launch from a non-federal launch site the FAA will:
   a. Initiate and request coordination with the AF when the FAA requires
   AF expertise in resolving any outstanding safety issue that requires
   resolution prior to issuance of a launch license; b. Provide to the AF
   any information, data, or results of analyses that may assist the AF to
   produce analyses, or other information the AF has agreed to provide the
   FAA in support of the FAA licensing process; and c. Share safety
   related information regarding any proposed launch that may impact any
   AF operation or mission. iv. For a licensed launch from a non-federal
   launch site the AF will: a. Per request and as resources are available,
   assist the FAA in its analysis of the safety of the proposed launch;
   and Page 9 of 11 MOA on Safety for Space Transportation and Range
   Activities b. Support the FAA's licensing decisions, including initial
   license determinations and license modifications through sharing of
   models, data, or other information as requested and available. B.
   Exchange and Sharing of Safety and Engineering Resources. The FAA and
   the Air Force will, per request and as resources are available, jointly
   make available opportunities to exchange FAA and AF personnel (e.g.,
   from the AF launch ranges and from FAA/AST) to: i. Coordinate safety
   oversight for commercial launches occurring from non-federal launch
   sites; ii. Coordinate safety oversight for commercial launches
   occurring from AF launch ranges; and iii. Inspect/evaluate flight
   safety systems and conduct flight safety analyses for licensed launches
   from AF launch ranges and non-federal launch sites. C. Cross-Training
   of Personnel. i. The FAA will create and make available to the AF
   opportunities to train AF personnel on FAA regulatory processes. ii.
   The FAA will participate in training exercises made available by the AF
   for range safety and operations. iii. The AF will create and make
   available to the FAA opportunities to train FAA/AST personnel on AF
   range safety and operational processes for launches occurring from the
   AF launch ranges. iv. The AF will participate in training exercises
   made available by the FAA regarding FAA regulatory processes. X.
   REIMBURSEMENT The AF and FAA will formulate appropriate subordinate
   agreements as necessary to reimburse each other to carry out this MOA.
   These subordinate agreements will be consistent with the standard
   method of reimbursement for AF and FAA-provided services and products
   rendered. The AF and the FAA will formulate appropriate subordinate
   agreements for the FAA to reimburse the AF for support rendered to the
   FAA by the AF for licensed launches taking place at non-federal launch
   sites. Page 10 of 11 MOA on Safety for Space Transportation and Range
   Activities XI. MISHAP INVESTIGATION The FAA and AF agree to cooperate
   and exchange information on mishaps of mutual interest. Details are to
   be included in a separate MOA. XII. IMPLEMENTATION The AF and FAA
   should use this Agreement as a basis for writing implementing
   procedures to carry out their respective responsibilities for
   commercial space transportation and range activities. With regard to
   this MOA, the primary point of contact for the FAA within the AF shall
   be the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Space and the primary
   point of contact for the AF within the FAA shall be the Associate
   Administrator for Commercial Space Transportation. The Assistant
   Secretary and Associate Administrator shall be mutually responsible for
   the successful execution of this MOA. This agreement will be reviewed
   every four years to determine the need for any modifications. Either
   the FAA or the AF can request modifications at any time. Page 11 of 11
   MOA on Safety for Space Transportation and Range Activities ANNEX A:
   FAA Baseline Assessment. Section 415.31 of 14 CFR directs the FAA to
   issue a license to an applicant proposing to launch from a federal
   launch range if the applicant satisfies the requirements of subpart C
   of the licensing regulations and has contracted with the federal launch
   range for the provision of launch services and property, as long as the
   safety related launch services and proposed use of property are within
   the experience of the federal launch range. All other safety services
   and property associated with an applicant's proposal are evaluated on a
   case-by-case basis. The FAA does not duplicate analyses performed by
   the federal launch ranges or routinely review those analyses during the
   launch safety review. Instead, the FAA relies on its knowledge of the
   range processes as documented in the FAA's Baseline Assessments. A
   federal launch range, however, may not adequately address some
   regulatory safety issues. The failure of federal launch range safety
   systems or procedures may, for example, affect the FAA's ability to
   rely on those aspects of federal launch range services. The FAA may
   ascertain this during the course of a pre-application consultation or
   once an applicant submits its application, or through its
   communications regarding launch activities with the federal ranges. The
   FAA may then require the applicant to demonstrate safety with respect
   to those specific areas of concern on a case-by-case basis. In addition
   to requiring a showing of safety from the applicant, the FAA will also
   work with the federal launch range to address the issue, and will
   update the FAA's Baseline Assessment as appropriate. FAA's Baseline
   Assessment documents each federal launch range's capabilities, safety
   program, standards and policies. This Baseline Assessment includes, but
   is not limited to the following and related areas: * General
   information including: o Local-area and population information o Range
   organizational structure o Range history and general capabilities o
   Range commercial programs o Introduction process for new customers and
   contracting requirements Page A-1 of 2 MOA on Safety for Space
   Transportation and Range Activities o Facility site and lease and
   license processes o Environmental documentation * Launch Base and Range
   description including: o Complexes, facilities and equipment (on and
   off the range) o Vehicle support capabilities * Safety organization and
   responsibilities * Safety policy including: o Public exposure o Control
   systems o Clearance zones o Safety approvals * Safety Program
   including: o Launch vehicle ground system safety and policies o Flight
   safety approval process, safety analyses, systems, procedures and
   criteria o Non-Compliance policies and procedures o Safety reviews o
   Safety operations responsibilities, standards and procedures *
   Personnel Training and Certifications o Mission Flight Control Officers
   o Flight safety analysis o Vehicle system safety o Personnel performing
   other safety related functions * Range Interfaces (Operations,
   Logistics, Medical, etc.) * Range User Responsibilities * Safety
   Related Computer Software Page A-2 of 2
