http://www.hso.ihs.gov/Awards/awards.cfm

   graphic spacer  HSPAC logo                           graphic spacer
                                  navmap
     A d v i s o r y   Co m m i t t e e  ~   L i s t  S e r v  ~  C P O  ~
                        M e n t o r  P r o g r a m

                                    Awards>

                     Health Services Officer Award Guide


                                Awards Guide
                               graphic element

                                 2000 Awards
                               graphic element

                                Garcia Award
                               graphic element

                                Kissel Award
                               graphic element


              Prepared by the Awards Subcommittee of the HS-PAC
                               December, 1996

     * Why an Award Guide?
     * Preparing the Award Nomination
     * Reasons Awards are not Endorsed
     * Narrative Pitfalls
     * Writing the Narrative
     * Additional Tips
     * Honor Award Criteria
     * Individual Awards

   Why an Award Guide?

   The Health Services Officer (HSO) Award Guide was developed by the
   Health Services Professional Advisory Committee (HS-PAC) to help
   officers become better informed about the Commissioned Corps awards
   process and to assist them in gaining appropriate and timely
   recognition for noteworthy achievements. This Guide describes some
   common problems that occur, offers possible solutions, and provides
   recommendations for the successful completion of an award nomination.

   Some officers are not fully informed about the Commissioned Corps
   awards program, or have been discouraged by what they perceive as
   inequities in the awards system (e.g., some individuals get and some
   organizations give more awards than others; officers in certain
   locations are more likely to get awards than others; etc.). The Award
   Guide, along with the information contained in Section CC27 of the
   Commissioned Corps Personnel Manual, is designed to help officers
   become better informed and prevent misconceptions about the awards
   process.

   It is important to understand that the Commissioned Corps Awards
   Program is not competitive. There are no targets or quotas on the types
   or the number of awards to be given out each year to individuals,
   categories, or agencies. It is also important for officers to be
   realistic in their expectations. We are all paid professionals, and are
   expected to do our work as well as possible. Not everything we do
   justifies an award.

   Preparing the Award Nomination

   In most situations, a supervisor will submit an award nomination to
   acknowledge an officer's superior accomplishments and achievements.
   Unfortunately, sometimes this does not happen. Below are some reasons a
   supervisor might not submit an award nomination and some actions you
   might take to remedy the situation.

   a) Your supervisor may be too busy and cannot find the time to prepare
   the award nomination. As an alternative, you may be able to recommend
   another individual sufficiently familiar with your work and
   accomplishments who can write the award nomination instead of your
   supervisor. As a last resort, and only if your supervisor concurs, you
   can propose to write a draft of the award nomination yourself and
   submit it to your supervisor for his/her review and concurrence.

   b) Your supervisor may be unaware of the significance and impact of
   your work or doesn't feel that your accomplishments deserve
   recognition. To remedy this, try some new approaches to communicate to
   him/her the importance of what you have done. This might include
   writing a report that shows the outcome and impact of your work, or
   providing your supervisor with comments from other colleagues or
   organizations that have benefitted from the work you did.

   c) Many supervisors, especially Civil Service supervisors, do not
   understand the Commissioned Corps Awards Program or appreciate the
   importance of awards to an officer's career and to the promotion
   process. You may need to take the initiative to educate him/her about
   the awards process as well as the role of awards in promotions. You may
   also need to understand specific Commissioned Corps award procedures
   for your agency and inform your supervisor accordingly.

   Reasons Awards are not Endorsed

   Sometimes an officer is nominated for an honor award but the award
   nomination is not endorsed. Reasons for this may include:

   a) Officer nominated for incorrect award:

   The level of the proposed award must be consistent with the
   accomplishment (see page 5). In addition, if an officer is nominated
   for an individual award when the work that is being cited was done by a
   group, the award will probably be returned with the recommendation that
   a unit award be considered.

   b) Untimely award submission:

   Commissioned Corps awards must be submitted within 13 months of
   completion of the achievement or accomplishment cited.

   c) More than one individual award within the award year:

   Officers may not receive more than one individual honor award (see
   listing of individual honor awards pages 6 and 7) from their agency
   during an award year (July 1 - June 30).

   d) Award nomination forms not filled out correctly:

   Awards nomination forms that are not filled out correctly, are not on
   the correct forms, or lack the necessary signatures will be returned.

   e) Award narrative poorly written:

   No matter how justified an award may be, if the narrative does not
   convey the significance and impact of the work it is unlikely to be
   approved. Be familiar with the criteria for the particular award, and
   make sure that the narrative addresses the criteria in a clear and
   understandable way, but does not exceed two pages in length.

   Narrative Pitfalls

   The award narrative should be easy to read, meet the criteria for the
   particular award, and clearly show why the award is justified. Some
   common mistakes with the narrative include:

   1) Poorly written:

     Contains mostly jargon, glowing adjectives, or global phrases;

     Uses incorrect grammar or punctuation;

     Written in technical language not understandable by a
   multi-disciplinary board;

     Unfocused, unclear writing;

     Includes extraneous and distracting information.

   2) Doesn't meet award criteria:

     Officer has already been recognized for these accomplishments either
   through a previous award or as part of a unit award;

     Accomplishments are not yet completed;

     Time period covered on nomination form does not agree with time
   period covered by the narrative;

   3) Narrative does not justify the award:

     Accomplishments and statement of impact are not clear or specific;

     Narrative does not demonstrate that accomplishments are above and
   beyond those normally required of the officer;

     Achievement and impact do not correlate with the level of proposed
   award.

   Writing the Narrative

   The narrative has 3 main sections: introduction, accomplishments, and
   summary.

   1) Introduction

   The introductory paragraph should describe the general criteria for the
   award being considered (i.e. continuous leadership, major public health
   impact, etc.) and the time period covered by the nomination (i.e., a
   discrete period of time or a career).

   If the time period and accomplishments overlap with previous awards,
   the previous awards need to be included in the narrative with an
   explanation of how the new nomination is different. For example, a
   lifetime (career) nomination can include the previous awards
   achievements to demonstrate a productive career.

   2) Accomplishments

   Accomplishments should not be embellished with a great deal of
   superlatives or read like a COER. Specific examples of the noteworthy
   accomplishment(s) should be clearly and succinctly provided and can be
   listed in bullet form if appropriate. Describe why these activities are
   significant and their impact. When detailing the accomplishments, note
   the following:

     Public Health Impact: Is the Nation/PHS/Agency/etc. better off
   because of the action? How so? Why is it significant?

     Initiative/Dedication: Did the individual show personal initiative in
   problem identification and solving? Was there unusual dedication and
   perseverance in the accomplishments?

     Duty/Grade: Was the accomplishment above and beyond the line of
   duty/grade expectations? Show that this was not just something that was
   expected of the officer or within the job description.

   3) Summary

   The subjective impression of the overall performance should be saved
   for the last paragraph. Superlatives that could obscure the
   accomplishments section can be used in the summary section. The
   laudability of the officer, overall impression, and impact of
   performance are appropriate for the summary.

   After preparing the narrative, review it to make sure that it answers
   the following questions:

     What did the officer do to warrant recognition?

     What is the officer's scope of responsibility relative to his/her
   grade?

     What were the outcomes/impacts of the officer's accomplishments on
   the program/agency/PHS/nation? What was the scope of the outcome versus
   the scope of the officer's job?

     How did this accomplishment bring honor upon the officer, the
   program, the agency, and the PHS?

   Remember - write clearly and let the facts speak for themselves.

   Additional Tips

   1) If an award is for a discrete time period, make sure that the
   narrative reflects only activities from that time period. (However,
   brief, concise and pertinent background information may be included to
   "set the stage" for the award nomination.)

   2) Include dates of specific activities.

   3) To avoid any potential appearance of a conflict of interest, the
   nominator should not be a person who is supervised by the officer being
   nominated. Also, the nominator cannot be included in a group award.

   4) Citations must be limited to 25 words or less and be consistent with
   the narrative.

   5) If the proposed award is to recognize specific accomplishments, the
   narrative should concentrate on them and not include superfluous
   information.

   6) If the award is for career accomplishments, the narrative should
   summarize and highlight the total career rather than any one particular
   achievement.

   7) Avoid the "CV format," which is a chronicle of an officer's
   assignments, but does not describe the reasons that criteria for a
   particular award have been met.

   8) The award narrative is a maximum of 2 pages in no less than 12 point
   print with no more than 12 characters per inch and one inch margins.
   Many of the best narratives are less than 2 pages.

   9) Avoid mentioning activities in the narrative that do not pertain to
   how the criteria are being met. This tends to distract from the impact.

   10) Fill out nomination form thoroughly and correctly.

   11) Limit the use of technical words, jargon, and acronyms. The
   committee that reviews award nominations may not be familiar with these
   terms.

   12) If the award nomination period and accomplishments overlap other
   awards, explain this in the narrative.

   Honor Award Criteria

   A. Group Awards:

   Unit Commendation - Recognizes outstanding accomplishments by a
   designated organizational unit within the PHS at a level of performance
   well above that normally expected, but of a somewhat lesser level than
   is required for the Outstanding Unit Citation.

   Outstanding Unit Commendation - Recognizes superior accomplishments
   often of national or international significance by commissioned
   officers in PHS components at an exceptional level of performance.
   Final approval is by the Commissioned Corps Awards Board (CCAB)

   B. Individual Awards:

   PHS Citation - Recognizes noteworthy contribution(s) toward the
   attainment of Program objectives, sustained above-average performance
   of duty, and high quality performance of duty over a relatively short
   period of time.

   Achievement Medal - Recognizes a noteworthy contribution(s) toward the
   attainment of Program objectives, or sustained above-average
   performance of duty over a relatively brief period such as a short tour
   of duty (120 days or less).

   Commendation Medal - Recognizes sustained high quality work performance
   in scientific, administrative, or other professional fields,
   application of unique skill or creative imagination to the approach or
   solution of problems, or noteworthy technical and professional
   contributions that are significant to a limited area at a level of
   proficiency and dedication distinctly greater than that expected of the
   average commissioned officer.

   Outstanding Service Medal - Recognizes outstanding continuous
   leadership in carrying out the mission of the PHS, a single
   accomplishment which has had a major effect on the health of the
   Nation, or a heroic act resulting in the preservation of health or
   property. Final approval is by the CCAB.

   Meritorious Service Medal - Recognizes a single, particularly important
   achievement, a career notable for accomplishments in a technical or
   professional field, or leadership of an unusually high quality and
   initiative. Final approval is by the CCAB.

   Distinguished Service Medal - Recognizes outstanding contributions to
   the mission of the PHS, an initiative which has major impact on the
   health of the Nation, management of a major health program, or
   involvement in a heroic act resulting in an exceptional saving of life,
   health, or property. Final approval is by the CCAB.

   Conclusion

   The purpose of the Commissioned Corps Awards Program is to recognize
   the noteworthy accomplishments and achievements of Commissioned
   Officers. If you are not getting the recognition you think you deserve,
   identify the problem and consider possible ways to remedy the
   situation. In some instances, the difficulties that occur between an
   officer and a supervisor regarding awards are indicative of a larger
   problem. You should assess the situation and, if warranted, make a
   change. Remember, it is your responsibility to look out for your
   career!

   Appendix I:
   Checklist prepared by the Division of Commissioned Personnel for award
   nominations.

                               [Element2.gif]


                                 HSPAC logo
   Advisory Committee    News & Information    Mentor Program    Internet
   Links
      __________________________________________________________________

   Direct comments and questions to Justina Schwemberger
   This file last modified: Tuesday January 16, 2001
