http://www.rrb.gov/opa/agency_overview.htm

                       U.S. Railroad Retirement Board

    Skip past top Navigation Bar Home  | Search  | Contact Us  | Privacy
    Policy  | What's New  | Site Map  | Web Links
     __________________________________________________________________

                          An Agency Overview ~ 2001

   The following text is also available in smaller type more suitable for
   printing: PDF Document

   Retirement Program
   Unemployment Program
   Railroad Retirement Act
   Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act
   RRB Organizations and Functions
   The RRB and the Federal Government
   The RRB and the Railroad Industry
   Publications


   The Railroad Retirement Board (RRB) is an independent agency in the
   executive branch of the Federal Government. The RRB's primary function
   is to administer comprehensive retirement-survivor and
   unemployment-sickness benefit programs for the nations Railroad
   Retirement Board at 844 N. Rush St., Chicago railroad workers and their
   families, under the Railroad Retirement and Railroad Unemployment
   Insurance Acts. In connection with the retirement program, the RRB has
   administrative responsibilities under the Social Security Act for
   certain benefit payments and railroad workers Medicare coverage.

   Pictured at right is RRB headquarters, Chicago.

   During fiscal year 2000, retirement-survivor benefits of nearly $8.3
   billion were paid to some 724,000 beneficiaries, while net
   unemployment-sickness benefits of $79 million were paid to some 35,000
   claimants. At the end of fiscal year 2000, the average annuity paid to
   retired rail employees was about $1,400 a month, spouse benefits
   averaged $530 a month, and benefits for aged widow(er)s averaged $830 a
   month. The maximum biweekly rate for unemployment and sickness benefits
   was $480.

   Development of the Railroad Retirement and
   Unemployment Insurance Systems

   The RRB was created in the 1930s by legislation establishing a
   retirement benefit program for the nations railroad workers. Private
   industrial pension plans had been pioneered in the railroad industry;
   the first industrial pension plan in America was established on a
   railroad in 1874. By the 1930s, pension plans were far more developed
   in the railroad industry than in most other businesses or industries;
   but these plans had serious defects which were magnified by the great
   depression.

   Retirement program.--
   The economic conditions of the 1930s demonstrated the need for
   retirement plans on a national basis, because few of the nations
   elderly were covered under any type of retirement program. While the
   social security system was in the planning stage, railroad workers
   sought a separate railroad retirement system which would continue and
   broaden the existing railroad programs under a uniform national plan.
   The proposed social security system was not scheduled to begin monthly
   benefit payments for several years and would not give credit for
   service performed prior to 1937, while conditions in the railroad
   industry called for immediate benefit payments based on prior service.

   Legislation was enacted in 1934, 1935, and 1937 to establish a railroad
   retirement system separate from the social security program legislated
   in 1935. Such legislation, taking into account particular circumstances
   of the rail industry, was not without precedent. Numerous laws
   pertaining to rail operations and safety had already been enacted since
   the Interstate Commerce Act of 1887. Since passage of the Railroad
   Retirement Acts of the 1930s, numerous other railroad laws have
   subsequently been enacted.

   While the railroad retirement system has remained separate from the
   social security system, the two systems are closely coordinated with
   regard to earnings credits, benefit payments, and taxes. The financing
   of the two systems is linked through a financial interchange under
   which, in effect, the portion of railroad retirement annuities that is
   equivalent to social security benefits is reinsured through the social
   security system. The purpose of this financial coordination is to place
   the social security trust funds in the same position they would be in
   if railroad service were covered by the social security program instead
   of the railroad retirement program.

   Legislation enacted in 1974 restructured railroad retirement benefits
   into two tiers, so as to coordinate them more fully with social
   security benefits. The first tier is based on combined railroad
   retirement and social security credits, using social security benefit
   formulas. The second tier is based on railroad service only and is
   comparable to the pensions paid over and above social security benefits
   in other heavy industries.

   Unemployment program.--
   The railroad unemployment insurance system was also established in the
   1930s. The great depression demonstrated the need for unemployment
   compensation programs, and State unemployment programs had been
   established under the Social Security Act in 1935. While the State
   unemployment programs generally covered railroad workers, railroad
   operations which crossed State lines caused special problems.
   Unemployed railroad workers were denied compensation by one State
   because their employers had paid unemployment taxes in another State.
   Although there were cases where employees appeared to be covered in
   more than one State, they often did not qualify in any.

   A Federal study commission, which reported on the nationwide State
   plans for unemployment insurance, recommended that railroad workers be
   covered by a separate plan because of the complications their coverage
   had caused the State plans. Congress subsequently enacted the Railroad
   Unemployment Insurance Act in June 1938. The Act established a system
   of benefits for unemployed railroaders, financed entirely by railroad
   employers and administered by the RRB. Sickness benefits were added in
   1946.  [More History]

   Railroad Retirement Act

   Under the Railroad Retirement Act, retirement and disability annuities
   are paid to railroad workers with at least 10 years of service.

   Provisions.--
   Unreduced age annuities are payable at full retirement age with 10
   years of service or age 62 with 30 years service. Full retirement age
   is gradually rising from 65 to 67, depending on the year of birth.
   Reduced age annuities are payable at 62 with 10-29 years service, or
   age 60 with 30 years service. Disability annuities can be paid on the
   basis of total or occupational disability. Annuities are also payable
   to spouses and divorced spouses of retired workers and to widow(er)s,
   surviving divorced spouses, remarried widow(er)s, children, and parents
   of deceased railroad workers. Qualified railroad retirement
   beneficiaries are covered by Medicare in the same way as social
   security beneficiaries.

   Jurisdiction over the payment of retirement and survivor benefits is
   shared by the RRB and the Social Security Administration. The RRB has
   jurisdiction over the payment of retirement benefits if the employee
   had at least 10 years of railroad service; for survivor benefits, there
   is an additional requirement that the employees last regular employment
   before retirement or death was in the railroad industry. If a railroad
   employee or his or her survivors do not qualify for railroad retirement
   benefits, the RRB transfers the employees railroad retirement credits
   to the Social Security Administration, where they are treated as social
   security credits.

   Financing.--
   Payroll taxes paid by railroad employers and their employees are the
   primary source of funding for the railroad retirement-survivor benefit
   programs. By law, railroad retirement taxes are coordinated with social
   security taxes. Employees and employers pay tier I taxes at the same
   rate as social security taxes. In addition, both employees and
   employers pay tier II taxes which are used to finance railroad
   retirement benefit payments over and above social security levels.
   Historically, railroad retirement taxes have been considerably higher
   than social security taxes. On top of the regular retirement taxes,
   railroad employers also pay a cents per work-hour tax, determined
   quarterly by the RRB, to finance a supplemental annuity program for
   career employees.

   Other sources of income include the financial interchange with the
   social security trust funds, revenues from Federal income taxes on
   railroad retirement benefits, earnings on investments, and
   appropriations from general treasury revenues provided after 1974 as
   part of a phase-out of certain vested dual benefits.

   The RRBs most recent financial report on the railroad retirement
   programs assets and liabilities concluded that, barring a sudden,
   unanticipated, large drop in railroad employment, no cash-flow problems
   arise during the next 35 years. However, like previous railroad
   retirement financial reports, this report also indicated that the
   long-term stability of the system, under its current financing
   structure, is still dependent on future railroad employment levels.

   Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act

   Under the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act, unemployment insurance
   benefits are paid to railroad workers who are unemployed but ready,
   willing, and able to work and sickness benefits to railroad workers who
   are unable to work because of illness or injury. The RRB also operates
   a placement service to assist unemployed railroaders in securing
   employment.

   Benefit year.--
   A new unemployment-sickness benefit year begins every July 1, with
   eligibility generally based on railroad service and earnings in the
   preceding calendar year. Up to 26 weeks of normal unemployment or
   sickness benefits are payable to an individual in a benefit year.
   Additional extended benefits are payable to persons with 10 or more
   years of service.

   Financing.--
   The railroad unemployment-sickness benefit program is financed by taxes
   on railroad employers under an experience-rating system. Each employers
   payroll tax rate is determined annually by the RRB on the basis of
   benefit payments to the railroads employees. The latest RRB financial
   report on the unemployment insurance system indicated that
   experience-based contribution rates will keep the system solvent even
   under the most pessimistic employment assumption.

   RRB Organization and Functions

   The RRB is headed by three members appointed by the President of the
   United States, with the advice and consent of the Senate. One member is
   appointed upon the recommendation of railroad employers, one is
   appointed upon the recommendation of railroad labor organizations and
   the third, who is the Chair, is appointed to represent the public
   interest. The Board Members terms of office are 5 years and are
   scheduled to expire in different years. The President also appoints an
   Inspector General for the RRB.

   The primary function of the RRB is the determination and payment of
   benefits under the retirement-survivor and unemployment-sickness
   programs. To this end, the RRB must employ field representatives to
   assist railroad personnel and their families in filing claims for
   benefits, examiners to adjudicate the claims, and information
   technology staff, equipment and programs to maintain earnings records,
   calculate benefits and process payments.

   The RRB also employs actuaries to predict the future income and outlays
   of the Railroad Retirement Account, statisticians and economists to
   provide vital data, and attorneys to interpret legislation and
   represent the RRB in litigation. Internal administration requires a
   procurement staff, a budget and accounting staff, and personnel
   specialists. The Inspector General employs auditors and investigators
   to detect any waste, fraud, or abuse in the benefit programs.

   The RRB and the Federal Government

   As an independent agency in the executive branch of the Federal
   Government, the RRB reports to the President on its operations and to
   Congress. Officials of the RRB testify at congressional hearings on
   proposed legislation to amend the Railroad Retirement and Railroad
   Unemployment Insurance Acts. Congress has jurisdiction over the amounts
   available to the railroad retirement system for benefit payments and
   for administration.

   The RRB works closely with other Federal agencies and with some State
   agencies. Its dealings with some of these agencies, such as the
   Presidents Office of Management and Budget, the Office of Personnel
   Management, the U.S. General Accounting Office, and the Department of
   the Treasury, are similar to the dealings of other executive branch
   agencies with these units. The RRBs relations with certain others -
   principally, the Social Security Administration, the Health Care
   Financing Administration, the State employment security departments
   and, on a smaller scale, the Department of Labor - are related directly
   or indirectly to the various benefit programs.

   The RRB and the Railroad Industry

   The administrative organization of the RRB fosters close relations with
   railroad employers, employees and their representatives. Two of the
   three Board Members are appointed on the recommendations of railway
   labor and management associations and labor and management officials
   have been active in the development of the railroad retirement and
   unemployment insurance programs since their inception.

   In addition, the RRB relies on railroad employers and labor groups for
   assistance in keeping railroad personnel informed about the benefit
   programs. Informational programs are conducted for railroad management
   and labor officials to acquaint them with the details of the benefit
   programs, and these officials, in turn, educate railroad workers as to
   their benefit rights and responsibilities.

   Railroad employers and railway labor groups also cooperate with the RRB
   in a joint placement program to find jobs for unemployed personnel.
   These joint placement efforts help to reduce the costs of the
   unemployment insurance program.

   The RRB has direct contact with railroad employees through its field
   offices where its personnel explain benefit rights and responsibilities
   on an individual basis, assist employees in applying for benefits,
   provide related services for annuitants and answer any questions
   related to the benefit programs. The RRB maintains field offices in
   railroad locales across the United States.

   The RRBs headquarters is located at 844 North Rush Street, Chicago,
   Illinois 60611-2092, Phone (312) 751-4500.

   A list of the RRBs publications is provided on the following page.

   Information on the RRB is also available on the Internet at
   www.rrb.gov. Information is available on benefit requirements, customer
   service standards, field office locations, press releases and other
   topics.

   Publications

   The following leaflets pertaining to benefits payable by the RRB are
   available at any RRB field office, or RRB headquarters at 844 North
   Rush Street, Chicago, Illinois 60611-2092. Most are also available on
   the RRBs Web site at www.rrb.gov.
     * Railroad Retirement and Survivor Benefits, RRB Form IB-2
     * Guide to Railroad Retirement and Survivor Benefits
       (Spanish-language edition), RRB Form RB-4a
     * Federal Income Tax and Railroad Retirement Benefits, RRB Form T-5
     * Medicare for Railroad Workers and Their Families, RRB Form RB-20
     * Railroad Unemployment and Sickness Benefits, RRB Form UB-9

   The following publications pertain to administrative, financial,
   statistical, legal and other aspects of the railroad retirement and
   unemployment insurance systems and are distributed by various
   headquarters offices to officials of industry and government having an
   interest in RRB operations.
     * Annual Reports on the RRBs operations are distributed to officials
       of railway management and labor, members of Congress, officials of
       the Federal Government, and requesting libraries.
     * Railroad Retirement Handbook - a comprehensive single source of
       authoritative information on the development and character of the
       railroad retirement and railroad unemployment insurance systems,
       distributed to officials of railway labor, railway management,
       members of Congress, government officials and students of American
       social insurance.
     * RRB News periodic news releases distributed to editors of railway
       publications and major newspapers, officials of railway management
       and labor, and requesting agencies and organizations in and outside
       of the Federal Government.
     * Railroad Retirement Information questions and answers distributed
       monthly to editors of railway publications and officials of railway
       management and labor.
     * Annual Statistical Tables and Quarterly Benefit Statistics
       distributed to officials of railway management and labor and
       requesting libraries.


   Get Acrobat Software To view and download forms in PDF format you will
   need to download a free copy of Acrobat Reader. Click here to download
   an Agency Overview in PDF

          Before sending e-mail, you must review our e-mail notice!

                               Navigation Bar
   Page last updated October 04, 2001
