http://www.fnal.gov/cd/xterm/FAQ.html

            FNAL X Terminals & Software - Frequently Asked Questions

   This describes some FAQ for the FNAL X hardware and software. Last
   updated June 7, 1999.

I. General Information - Available Documentation

  1. What are the sources of X Hardware and Software information for FNAL?

   A number of Technical Notes have been written to answer various
   questions concerning X issues. They are available from the Computing
   Division Library, WH8NE, and on line in html format:

     TN0050: Distributed Graphics Applications in X Protocol

     TN0072: Evaluation of the VXT2000 X Terminal

     TN0082: Using NCD Flash Memory

  2. Is there on-line information available?

   Yes - There is information in html format. The URL is

     http://http://www.fnal.gov/cd/xterm From there you can navigate to
   most of the information available on the FNAL X environment.

  3. Where can I get help with X terminal questions?

   Questions on X hardware and siftware can be directed to the Computing
   Division help desk, X2345.

II. X Terminals

  1. What X terminal models are recommended by the Computing Division?

   At present, certain models of Network Computind Devices (NCD) and
   Tektronix X terminals are recommended. For a complete description,
   refer to TN0060.

  2. How do I order an X Terminal?

   The Computing Division no longer recommends buying X terminals.

  3. What do I do when my terminal arrives?

   Using the manuals provided with the unit, hooking the terminal onto the
   FNAL LAN is pretty straightforward. Once that has been done, you need
   to get an IP address from the network group. Fill out an submit the
   on-line form .

  4. After it's hooked up, how can I make it work?

   After you have an IP address for your unit, you will need to *boot* the
   terminal. You are advised to make use of the fnalu boot service. This
   service is described in BootServAnn.html. The basic configuration
   provided when using the fnalu boot service is very intuitive; you
   should be able to connect to any host on the network very easily once
   your terminal has been booted.

III. X Software

  1. How do I run X software, including PAW and DECWindows applications, on my X
  terminal?

   A complete description of this process is described in TN0050.

  2. What system software will run on my X terminal?

   In general nearly all of the software provided with IRIX, SunOS,
   Solaris, AIX which will run on the system consoles will also work on X
   terminals. There are exceptions, particularly in the Case of IRIX,
   which has some GL applications which will not run on an X server
   (terminal). DECWindows application software on VAX and Ultrix machines,
   including DECTerms, will run on X terminals. In particular, the command
   % ls /usr/bin/X11 will give you a list of system-provided X client
   programs. Consult the manuals for the host computers for more details.
