http://www.pay.gov/Privacy.htm

   Pay gov Pay gov

   What is Pay gov How does it work Benefits Getting Started

                           Pay.gov Notices and Agreement

      Pay.gov is a Web transaction portal for public access to Federal agency
      services, managed by the United States Department of the Treasury’s
      Financial Management Service (FMS). This document sets out Pay.gov’s
      general legal, privacy, and accessibility notices. To the extent that
      the terms of these notices require you to take or refrain from taking
      certain actions, you must agree to abide by these terms in exchange for
      obtaining Pay.gov's services.

      Pay.gov provides services for other Federal agencies. To the extent
      that Pay.gov is acting on behalf of an agency, please refer to the
      agency’s own notices and agreements. To the extent that Pay.gov is
      acting on its own, these Pay.gov notices and agreement apply. In case
      of a discrepancy between an agency's notices and agreements and
      Pay.gov's notices and agreement, Pay.gov's notices and agreement apply.

      Please read this document carefully. By accessing, browsing, or using
      the Pay.gov Web site or otherwise agreeing to these terms you
      acknowledge that you have read and understand these terms and agree to
      comply with and be bound by these terms without modification.

      General Legal Notices
       1. Authorized Uses of Pay.gov
       2. Pay.gov Authentication Services
       3. Communications
       4. Links to Third-Party Sites
       5. Intellectual Property
       6. Limitations on Liability
       7. Comments, Feedback, and Customer Service Questions
       8. Online Forms
       9. Amendments
      10. Miscellaneous

      Privacy Notices
       1. Importance of Privacy
       2. Information Automatically Gathered
       3. Personal Information We May Ask for and Its Uses
       4. Personal Information Not Sought from Children
       5. Our Legal Authority to Ask for Personal Information
       6. To Whom We May Release Personal Information
       7. No Unsolicited Information
       8. Caution About Sending Unencrypted Personal Information Over the
          Internet

      Accessibility Notices

      Financial Notices

      Definitions

                               General Legal Notices

        Authorized Uses of Pay.gov
          We authorize you to access and use Pay.gov services for the primary
          purpose of conducting financial transactions with Federal agencies.
          Accessing or using Pay.gov services without consenting to the terms
          of these Pay.gov notices and agreement is unauthorized and
          prohibited. Any access or use of the Pay.gov Web site for unlawful
          purposes, purposes other than those allowed under these notices and
          agreement or in a manner contrary to the terms of these notices or
          agreement is unauthorized and prohibited. Among other things,
          attempts to "crack," disrupt, bring down, infect with a computer
          virus or worm, block access to by others, or spoof Pay.gov are
          unauthorized. Also unauthorized are attempts to impersonate others
          or to intercept data intended for others. Unauthorized use may be a
          violation of law, including a violation of the Computer Fraud and
          Abuse Act of 1986 and National Information Infrastructure
          Protection Act (18 U.S.C. § 1030) and mail fraud statutes if it
          leads to an item being delivered by mail and may result in criminal
          penalties.
          Also, 31 U.S.C. § 333 prohibits (among other things) the misuse of
          certain names, terms, symbols, and emblems of the Department of the
          Treasury, as well as any colorable imitations of these items. This
          conduct is illegal if done in connection with business activities
          in a manner that reasonably could be construed as falsely implying
          that such activities are in any manner approved, endorsed,
          sponsored, authorized by, or associated with the Department of the
          Treasury. For instance, "framing" the Pay.gov site in a manner
          designed to falsely imply a relationship with Treasury could be
          forbidden under the statute. Section 333 also provides that the use
          of disclaimers is irrelevant to a determination of whether the
          statute has been violated.
        Pay.gov Authentication Services
          To engage in certain transactions, you may be issued Pay.gov
          authentication credentials.
          You are responsible for maintaining the confidentiality of your
          authentication credentials. You must not share these credentials
          with others. If you believe that the secrecy of your Pay.gov
          credentials may have been or may about to be violated, you must
          cancel your credentials or notify a security administrator or
          Pay.gov customer service agent. Please see our contacts page for
          more information.
          We reserve the right, in our sole discretion, to terminate or
          suspend your access to the Pay.gov authentication credentials at
          any time, without notice, including for inactivity.
        Communications
          We may send communications regarding Pay.gov or any financial
          transactions involving Pay.gov to the electronic mail (e-mail)
          address you have supplied to Pay.gov. Because e-mail is an insecure
          form of communication, we will attempt to limit any information
          sent to your e-mail address to non-sensitive information, unless
          you specifically request otherwise.
          You must maintain, at your own expense, Internet access and
          services necessary to maintain this e-mail account and you must
          update the profile for your Pay.gov authentication credentials (if
          any) in a timely manner to reflect all changes to that profile,
          including your e-mail address. We will have no liability for your
          failure to receive any communication that it has sent to your
          designated e-mail address.
          Although Pay.gov encrypts sensitive data, we cannot guarantee that
          any data you transmit to it or other Federal agencies while using
          Pay.gov will not be intercepted by third parties.
          All communications made in electronic and paper format will be
          considered to be "in writing."
        Links to Third-Party Sites
          Pay.gov may contain links to third party Web sites not under our
          control ("linked sites"). We are not responsible for the contents
          or absence of contents of any linked sites. We provide these links
          to you only as a convenience and the inclusion of any link does not
          imply endorsement by us. You are responsible for viewing and
          abiding by the notices and agreements posted at the linked sites.
        Intellectual Property
          Although Government works generally cannot be copyrighted, the
          Government can acquire copyright to works created by third parties
          and that may be the case concerning certain documents, software,
          and other intellectual property made available through Pay.gov
          services. Your use of copyrighted property must be in accordance
          with copyright law, which can apply regardless of whether a
          copyright symbol marks the property.
          To the extent that a work on the Pay.gov site is not copyrighted,
          we request the giving of proper credit.
        Limitations on Liability
          Except as otherwise required by law, in no event will we be liable
          for any damages other than actual damages arising in connection
          with Pay.gov, including without limitation indirect, special,
          incidental or consequential damages. In no event will we be liable
          for any failure of performance, error, computer virus or worm,
          omission, interruption, defect, delay in operation or transmission.
          We will have no liability for any act or omission of any third
          party (such as a provider of telecommunication services, Internet
          access, or computer equipment or software) or any circumstances
          beyond its control. Except as otherwise required by law, WE DO NOT
          MAKE ANY WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED (INCLUDING WARRANTIES OF
          MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE), WITH RESPECT
          TO ANY SOFTWARE, INFORMATION, SERVICE, OR OTHER ITEM PROVIDED BY,
          LOCATED ON, DERIVED FROM, ASSOCIATED WITH, OR LINKED TO BY PAY.GOV.
          EVERYTHING IS PROVIDED "AS IS."
        Comments, Feedback, and Customer Service Questions
          We welcome your comments, feedback, and customer service questions
          regarding Pay.gov. In this regard, we may in our discretion take
          full rights to make use of any ideas or suggestions you provide
          without giving compensation in return. These comments, feedback,
          and customer service inquries should be directed to the addresses
          set out on our contacts page.
        Online Forms
          An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required
          to respond to, a collection of information unless it provides
          notice of a currently valid Office of Management and Budget (OMB)
          control number. Among other things, a notice of the expected time
          burden is required.
          As noted above, Pay.gov provides services to Federal agencies.
          These services include the posting of agency forms. Required
          notices that accompany these forms are the responsibility of those
          agencies.
          For forms that are specific to Pay.gov in its own right, we
          estimate that it will take you no more than 30 minutes to fill out
          any such form, though most will take only a few minutes. This
          includes the time it will take to read any instructions, gather the
          necessary facts and fill out the form. For forms that are specific
          to Pay.gov, if you have comments or feedback regarding the above
          estimate or ways to simplify the forms, please send your comments
          or feedback to the addresses set out on our contacts page.
        Amendments
          We may from time to time amend these notices and agreement. Your
          continued use of Pay.gov on or after the effective date of any
          amendment evidences your agreement to the terms of that amendment.
          An update-to-date copy of these notices and agreement may be viewed
          at: <http://pay.gov/noticesandagreement.htm>.
        Miscellaneous
          Any dispute arising under this Agreement will be dealt with under
          Federal law in the Federal courts of the District of Columbia,
          which is to be considered the place of transaction for all online
          transactions.
          If any part of this agreement is determined to be invalid or
          unenforceable then the invalid or unenforceable provision will be
          deemed superseded by a valid, enforceable provision that most
          closely matches the intent of the original provision and the
          remainder of this agreement shall continue in effect.
          This agreement constitutes the entire agreement between you and us
          with respect to the Pay.gov services and supersedes all prior or
          contemporaneous communications and proposals, whether electronic,
          oral or written, between you and us with respect to the Pay.gov
          services.
          A printed version of these notices and agreement given in
          electronic form shall be admissible in judicial or administrative
          proceedings based upon or relating to this agreement to the same
          extent and subject to the same conditions as other business
          documents and records originally generated and maintained in
          printed form.

                                  Privacy Notices

        Importance of Privacy
          We are committed to protecting the privacy rights of the public.
          These rights are ensured through the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C.
          § 552A), Office of Management and Budget guidance, and other
          Federal regulations and FMS policy.
        Information Automatically Gathered
          For Web site security purposes as well as to improve our site,
          Pay.gov uses software that can monitor network traffic and identify
          unauthorized attempts to cause damage or upload or change
          information. Like all Web sites, when a page is requested Pay.gov
          can obtain some information about the request, such as: name of the
          domain from which the visitor accesses the Internet (e.g. "a
          company.com"; "a school.edu; or "an agency.gov"), Internet protocol
          address, date and time the Web site is visited and type of browser
          and operating system used to access the site. Aggregate information
          about individual Web pages visited also is collected.
          We generally do not use this automatically gathered information to
          attempt to identify individual users. We may use this information
          for authorized law enforcement investigations related to Pay.gov.
          This includes attempting to trace the source of an attack designed
          to disrupt or bring down the site or to prove whether a financial
          transaction has taken place. Otherwise, we only use this
          information to improve the content and structure of the Pay.gov Web
          site.
          Pay.gov does not use persistent "cookies", which are permanent
          files placed on a visitor's hard drive that allow a Web site to
          monitor a visitor’s use of the site. To the extent Pay.gov uses any
          cookies at all, such cookies are session cookies, which expire and
          automatically are removed no later than upon the closing of a Web
          browser.
        Personal Information We May Ask for and Its Uses
          We do not require you to provide any personal information just to
          access the Pay.gov site. If you choose to use certain services
          provided by Pay.gov, such as submitting a form or paying a bill
          electronically, we may need to confirm whom you claim to be to
          provide access, a process known as authentication.
          One way that Pay.gov performs authentication is by asking you to
          provide certain sensitive personal identifying information, such as
          your address, phone number, driver's license number, etc., that
          Pay.gov will verify by querying commercial or Government databases.
          The information you provide to Pay.gov will not be retained by any
          of commercial database provider, including for marketing purposes.
          Pay.gov’s authentication process is exclusively geared to verify a
          user’s identity; it in no way performs a credit check. The only
          criterion is that the information you provide is consistent with
          the records in the databases we access for authentication.
          Although this does not constitute a Fair Credit Reporting Act
          action (which mandates the database providers to offer certain
          aspects of customer service), we will disclose the names of the
          databases if you so request.
        Personal Information Not Sought from Children
          We do not attempt to collect personally identifiable information
          on-line from children age 16 or younger. Furthermore, we do not
          attempt to authenticate any person claiming to be age 16 or
          younger.
        Our Legal Authority to Ask for Personal Information
          We ask for personal information during authentication so that you
          can access certain information and conduct transactions that may
          typically result in the collection or payment of public money.
          Unless stated otherwise, the providing of this information is
          voluntary, not mandatory; however, if you choose not to provide
          this information we may not be able to process your requests.
          Among the voluntary information we may seek, Social Security
          numbers are a special case. Unlike other voluntary information, the
          Privacy Act states that an agency cannot deny you access or
          otherwise refrain from processing your transactions if you refuse
          to provide this particular piece of information, unless there is a
          statutory provision or other exception that allows or requires the
          agency to ask for this information. In this regard, there is a
          statutory provision at 31 U.S.C. § 7701 that can require us to ask
          for Social Security numbers in many instances. This statute
          mandates that we ask for this information in transactions that may
          result in a receivable and in certain other financial dealings.
          When dealing with a particular agency application, that agency may
          have additional cause to ask us to request your Social Security
          number.
        To Whom We May Release Personal Information
          We will not license or sell your personal information for
          commercial purposes. As was previously mentioned, the information
          you voluntarily provide will be communicated during authentication
          to third parties to validate your information and to ultimately
          confirm your identity. This information will not be kept by outside
          parties. They are legally bound to not further disclose information
          we share with them.
          The parties to whom we disclose information may include:

       1. appropriate Federal, state, local or foreign agencies responsible
          for investigating or prosecuting the violation of, or for enforcing
          or implementing, a statute, rule, regulation, order, or license;
       2. a court, magistrate, or administrative tribunal in the course of
          presenting evidence, including disclosures to representing counsel
          or witnesses in the course of civil discovery, litigation, or
          settlement negotiations, in response to a court-ordered subpoena,
          or in connection with criminal law proceedings;
       3. a Congressional or Presidential office in response to an inquiry
          made at the request of the individual to whom the record pertains;
       4. the news media in accordance with guidelines contained in 28 CFR
          50.2 which relate to an agency's functions relating to civil and
          criminal proceedings;
       5. third parties during the course of a U.S. Treasury investigation to
          the extent necessary to obtain information pertinent to the
          investigation;
       6. an attorney representing the person about whom the information
          pertains, regardless of whether litigation is ongoing or being
          threatened;
       7. a guardian of the person about whom the information pertains, if
          the person is incompetent;
       8. Treasury employees and fiscal or financial agents of the Government
          and contractors for the purpose of performing financial management,
          including investigating and rectifying possible erroneous reporting
          information, creating and reviewing statistics to improve the
          quality of services provided, or conducting debt collection;
       9. Federal agencies, to assist the agencies in fulfilling Federal
          program and accounting responsibilities; and
      10. others when consent of the person about whom the information
          pertains is or appears to have been given.

        No Unsolicited Information

      We may send notices to your e-mail address with regard to transactions
      you conduct on the Pay.gov site, such as confirmation notices, but
      otherwise we will not use your personal information to send you
      unsolicited information unless you opt-in to do so, such as by asking
      to be placed on an e-mail list.

        Caution About Sending Unencrypted Personal Information Over the
      Internet

      If you choose to send Pay.gov personal information electronically or
      request that we send you personal information electronically (such as
      by e-mail), we cannot guarantee its confidentiality as it travels
      across the Internet. While not likely, others could eavesdrop. To make
      this less likely, we may use encryption to protect information that you
      send or view. Pay.gov utilizes a secure transmission protocol (Secure
      Sockets Layer (SSL)) to provide protection of the communications across
      the Internet between Pay.gov and your computer. SSL is a commonly used
      protocol for managing the security of an interactive Web session on the
      Internet. If the Web page has an address that begins with <https://>
      rather than <http://> then the page is protected by SSL.

      Information transmitted to and from agencies and third party vendors
      other than through Web pages will be transmitted through a secure
      virtual private network connection or dedicated connection.

Accessibility Notices

   We are committed to making electronic and information technology
   accessible to people with disabilities, without the need for adaptation
   or specialized design. All of our pages have been tested against
   AccVerify and meet the accessibility standards defined in section 508
   of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (codified at 29 U.S.C. § 791 et seq.)
   and related laws and regulations (for more information, see
   http://www.section508.gov).

   The Pay.gov Web site generally is best viewed at 800 x 600 resolution
   using Internet Explorer 5.0 and higher or Netscape 4.7 and higher
   (please note that we do not support Netscape 6.x). For accessibility
   purposes, it has been designed to function best when using the screen
   reader JAWS for Windows in conjunction with Internet Explorer 5.0 and
   higher.

   If you have any trouble accessing any information on the site due to
   disability, please let us know through the addresses on our contacts
   page. Your comments, feedback, and questions will help us identify
   areas that require improvement.

Financial Notices

   Different payment methods can have different rules regarding
   unauthorized transactions. For instance:
   Credit card transactions can be reversed in many instances and your
       liability for unauthorized transactions generally cannot exceed
       $50.
       Direct debit (Automated Clearing House debit) transactions also can
       be reversed in many instances, but your liability can for
       unauthorized transactions can be higher than for credit card
       transactions, ranging up to a potentially unlimited amount,
       depending on when the unauthorized transaction(s) are reported to
       your financial institution.
       Fedwire and digital cash transactions are final.

Definitions

   Agency or Federal agency means any Federal agency, department, bureau,
       service, office, or other entity that uses Pay.gov services.
       Pay.gov means the Government-wide Web transaction portal operated
       by the Financial Management Service (FMS) of the United States
       Department of the Treasury, which may be accessed at:
       <http://www.pay.gov>.
       We or Us or Our means the FMS and its agents and contractors acting
       within the scope of their responsibilities on the Pay.gov program.
       You means you, the end-user making use of the Pay.gov services, in
       a personal capacity, professional capacity (including on behalf of
       a business or other entity), or both.

   Note: The online texts of laws to which this page hyperlinks are not
   official texts and may be out of date or otherwise inaccurate. The
   official texts are published by the Government Printing Office.

                       Last updated: January 24, 2002
