http://www.orea.ca.gov/html/faqs.shtml

                    Welcome to California California Home
   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
                skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree


                                  OREA Home

                                 About OREA

                              Find an Appraiser

                            Laws and Regulations

                            License Requirements

                            Temp Practice Permits

                                 Reciprocity

                                    Forms

                                  Education

                                 Enforcement

                                    FAQ's

                              OREA Publications

                               Press Releases

                                 Contact Us

                                     Map

                               Privacy Notice

                               Customer Survey

                                Related Sites


                              __________ search
                           ( ) My CA (*) This Site

                         FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS

                         Jump to the Licensing FAQ's

      For USPAP-related questions, see the Appraisal Standards Board's
                        Question & Answer Bulletins.

   If you don't find the answer to your question here, feel free to email
                       OREA at "questions@orea.ca.gov"

                                 Enforcement

   Question: What is the function of OREA's Enforcement Unit?
   Answer: OREA investigates the background of applicants and licensees
   with convictions for criminal violations of law or who have engaged in
   other conduct that calls into question their fitness for licensure.
   OREA also investigates complaints of unlawful or unethical activities
   filed against licensed appraisers, educational course providers and
   persons acting in a capacity that requires a license.

   Please note that OREA cannot act as a court of law, order the refund of
   monies, award damages, enforce contractual agreements or give legal
   advice. If any of these are your goal, you may wish to contact an
   attorney or your local Better Business Bureau.

   Question: When do I file a complaint?
   Answer: A complaint may be filed any time you have a legitimate
   complaint against a licensed appraiser. Complaints should be filed as
   soon as possible after the event.

   Question: How do I file a complaint?
   Answer: You may obtain a complaint form by visiting the Forms page on
   this website, or by contacting OREA at the numbers listed below. Then
   simply complete the form and send it, along with all relevant
   documents, to OREA, Enforcement Unit.

   Question: Who typically files complaints?
   Answer: Approximately 20% of all complaints are filed by a
   borrower/homeowner. Another 45% percent come from Regulators or
   Lenders, including Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Office of
   Thrift Supervision, Office of Comptroller of Currency, mortgage
   brokers, loan officers and review appraisers for banks. Appraisers file
   approximately 20% of the complaints and the remaining 15% fall into the
   "Other" category.
    Return to Top

    The following table highlights some of the most frequent allegations
   found in complaints filed with OREA paired with the typical source for
                               each category:

                              Type of Appraisal

                Common Allegations by Category of Complainant

   Single Family Residential

   Complaints filed by Borrowers/Homeowners
     * Property description errors
     * Errors in Comparable Sales Information
     * Errors in valuation
     * Payment disputes
     * Non-delivery of pre-paid appraisal
     * Obnoxious behavior/rudeness
       Narrative Reports
       Complaints filed by Regulators, Lenders and other Appraisers
          + Highest and Best Use
          + Discounted Cash Flow Analysis
          + Failure to properly analyze bonds or market demand
          + Incompetence
          + Inappropriate comparable selection
          + Fraud
          + No support for adjustments
          + Failure to include license number with signature
            Single Family Residential
            Complaints filed by Mortgage Brokers
               o Untimely delivery or non delivery of report
               o Unwillingness to correct errors in report
               o Altered license
               o Failure to provide operating income statement
               o Failure to return phone calls
                 Single Family Residential
                 Complaints filed by other Appraisers
                    # Failure to recognize professional assistance by
                      others
                    # Signing reports without reviewing them
                    # Competency
                    # Over valuation
                    # Fraud
                      Other Issues
                      Complaints from various sources
                         @ Misrepresentation of Errors & Omissions
                           Insurance
                         @ Litigation
                         @ Monetary disputes

   Question: How are complaint investigations conducted?
   Answer: OREA's Investigators include experienced, licensed appraisers.
   Interviews are conducted to gather information and clarify the
   complaint. If it appears the allegations may be true, the appraiser
   against whom the complaint was filed is contacted to provide an
   opportunity to respond. Desk and field reviews of appraisals are
   conducted whenever necessary to properly resolve the issues.
    Return to Top

   Question: What is OREA's complaint process?
   Answer:

   Once a complaint is received, OREA will send you an acknowledgement
   letter. The Enforcement Unit will then review the complaint, the
   seriousness of the allegations and the potential harm to the public.
   The complaint will then be prioritized and assigned to an investigator.
   The appraiser in question may be contacted for additional information
   and/or invited to attend an Office conference to explain his or her
   actions. OREA will then review all available information, determine if
   a violation has occurred and impose disciplinary sanctions, where
   appropriate.
   If the appraiser wishes to contest OREA's determination or sanctions, a
   hearing will be held before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office
   of Administrative Hearings (OAH). If necessary, you may be subpoenaed
   to testify at this hearing.

   Question: How long will it take to resolve my complaint?
   Answer:

   OREA will make every effort to resolve your complaint as quickly as
   possible. Many factors impact the length of an investigation,
   including: the complexity of the case, the availability and cooperation
   of witnesses and whether or not a field review of the property is
   necessary.
   Since OREA must investigate complaints in order of their priority based
   on the seriousness of the allegations, likelihood of continuing harm to
   the public and other factors, it is not possible to estimate how long
   it will take to resolve your complaint. For this reason, OREA
   encourages you not to wait for the resolution of your complaint before
   seeking legal advice or pursuing other appropriate remedies.

   Question: Will the appraiser be told who filed the complaint?
   Answer:

   OREA will make every effort to keep your identify confidential.
   However, OREA cannot guarantee your anonymity and will probably be
   required to reveal your identity if the matter is filed with OAH.

   Question: What can I do to avoid having a complaint filed against me?
   Answer: In addition to knowing and abiding by the Uniform Standards of
   Professional Appraisal Practice, a competent appraiser can protect
   himself or herself from complaints by avoiding misunderstandings and
   ensuring open, honest communication with the client and property owner.
   Appraisers should also consider:
                              - Using a written contract which contains
                                all terms, including the delivery date,
                                appraisal fee, appraisal assignment
                                clearly defined, and the property to be
                                appraised.
                              - If an appraisal assignment is curtailed
                                prior to completion at the client's
                                request, request or provide the client
                                with a written statement that clearly
                                states the reason for termination, the fee
                                that was earned for appraisal services
                                performed prior to terminating the
                                assignment and any other conditions (i.e.,
                                no report is required for partial payment,
                                the original assignment will be completed
                                for the balance of the fee if it is
                                requested within a certain period of time
                                with specified notice).
                              - If the client is a lender/mortgage broker,
                                ensure the property owner understands that
                                the lender/mortgage broker is responsible
                                for providing a copy of the appraisal, not
                                the appraiser. If you wish to provide a
                                copy to the homeowner, do not tell the
                                him/her you will do so unless (1) you
                                obtain prior approval from your client
                                (preferably in writing), and (2) you
                                follow through with your promise in a
                                timely manner.
                              - Before starting an appraisal assignment,
                                clarify with the property owner who is
                                responsible for payment of the appraisal
                                fee and when the payment is due, and
                                obtain or provide it in writing, if
                                possible.
                              - Deliver appraisals in a timely manner.
                              - If, upon inspection of the subject, you
                                discover the appraisal assignment is not
                                as negotiated in your contract, notify
                                your client immediately and re negotiate
                                the contract if appropriate and/or
                                necessary.
                              - Respond to telephone calls promptly.
                              - Always be courteous and polite.

    Return to Top

   Question: How will I know the result of my complaint?
   Answer:

   Once the case is concluded, OREA will notify you of the outcome of your
   complaint.
   For additional information, contact OREA at:
   Telephone (916) 263-0770
   FAX (916) 263-0889
   or write:
   Office of Real Estate Appraisers
   Enforcement Unit
   1755 Creekside Oaks Drive, Suite 190
   Sacramento, CA 95833

   Question: May a licensee voluntarily "suspend" his or her license to
   perform non-Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice
   (USPAP) appraisals?
   Answer: OREA sometimes receives requests from licensees wishing to
   suspend or terminate their licenses. The most common reasons include
   the desire to produce non-USPAP appraisals for real estate brokers or
   for tax appeal purposes. There is currently no provision for permitting
   such a suspension of licensure prior to the license expiration.

   OREA's regulations (California Code of Regulations Title 10, Chapter
   6.5) require every holder of an OREA license to conform to and observe
   USPAP at all times. Major modifications to USPAP in recent years permit
   and guide the appraiser in the performance of limited appraisals and
   consulting assignments. Please refer to USPAP for guidance.

   Question: Can a California licensed appraiser perform research for an
   appraisal of a property in another state, then write the report in
   California as a California licensee?
   Answer: Unless otherwise permitted by the state in which the property
   is located, an appraiser licensed in California cannot complete an
   appraisal of a property in another state unless they are in that state.
   The appraiser should contact the licensing agency in that state (you
   may visit www.asc.gov for contact information for all states) for
   specific information regarding temporary permit procedures.

                           Licensing

   Question: Can I e-mail my change of address?
   Answer: Our law currently requires you to submit a specific form to
   update your information. Therefore, to change your address, telephone
   number(s), business name, etc., on OREA records, please submit the
   Change Notification and Miscellaneous Requests (REA 3011) form, which
   you can download by visiting our Forms page.

   Since an original signature is required, please mail the completed form
   to our office at:
   OREA
   1755 Creekside Oaks Drive, Suite 190
   Sacramento, CA 95833

   Question: What is the current schedule for exams and where are the exam
   locations?
   Answer: Prior to taking the exam for a License, you must first submit
   the required application and fee to our office. If you are approved to
   take the examination, we will send you an Admission to Examination
   Letter and booklet on how to schedule your examination.

   The examination is currently offered several times per week, at the
   following six (6) locations in California and two (2) locations in
   Nevada: San Diego, Riverside, Glendale, Oakland, Sacramento,
   Bakersfield, Las Vegas (NV) and Reno (NV).
   You may download the Licensing Requirements Handbook and the Forms
   required to apply for a license by visiting those pages.
    Return to Top

   Question: How can I verify the validity of a license or find a licensed
   appraiser in my area?
   Answer: For information on California licensed individuals, you may
   wish to check our Find An Appraiser page. You may also wish to check
   the Appraisal Subcommittee's website at www.asc.gov to search for
   licensees in other states.

   Question: How do I obtain publications and application forms from OREA?
   Answer: You may access our handbook, forms, and a complete listing of
   OREA approved schools via our website.

   Adobe Acrobat Reader is available free via a link on our website.
   However, if for any reason you are unable to obtain the information
   from our website, you may call our office at (916) 263-0722 and we will
   be happy to mail any of the information that you request.

   Question: Will a criminal conviction prohibit me from obtaining a real
   estate appraiser license?
   Answer: You may review the Investigation of Offenses section in the
   Licensing Requirements Handbook, which is available on our website. As
   mentioned in that section, before an application is approved, OREA is
   required by law to determine whether an applicant has committed any
   crimes or acts which constitute grounds for denial of an application
   for licensure.

   Any recent felony conviction may create a significant obstacle to
   obtaining a license. However, misdemeanor convictions that are not
   substantially related to the duties and qualifications of being an
   appraiser may not prevent an individual from getting a license. We are
   unable to determine whether or not an individual will be approved for
   licensure until all of the required information regarding any
   conviction(s) is submitted along with an application.

   Question: How long will it take to process my application?
   Answer: Although we make every effort to process all applications as
   quickly as possible, processing times can vary. Therefore, we are
   unable to estimate a general turnaround time for applications.

   If any additional information is needed you will receive correspondence
   requesting the necessary information. If we have any questions that do
   not require your written response, we will contact you by telephone.
    Return to Top

   Question: How can I obtain a list of course providers? Are any distance
   education courses approved?
   Answer: By visiting our Education page, you may download a complete
   listing of OREA approved schools. You may also perform a search of
   currently approved courses and providers. (Please note, these lists do
   not include all accredited colleges and universities, who also offer
   courses that can be used for appraisal education).

   The schools approved to offer distance education (i.e., correspondence)
   courses have the "ACE/CREDIT" designation on the OREA approved list of
   courses and providers.

   Question: Why do I have to submit documentation of legal presence?
   Didn't I submit this with my original application?
   Answer: All applications received on or after September 1, 1998,
   require that the applicant provide acceptable documentation of their
   legal presence in the United States. Therefore, if you applied for
   licensure prior to this requirement going into effect, you were not
   required to submit this information with your previous application(s).

   Please note, once we have this information on file, you will not be
   required to submit it again. In addition, you may submit this
   information at any time; you are not required to wait until you submit
   an application.

   Question: What if lenders won't let me sign appraisals as a Trainee
   licensee although I have a co-signer who is certified at the
   appropriate level for the type of property being appraised and in good
   standing with OREA?
   Answer: As a licensed Trainee appraiser, you may accumulate experience
   hours without signing the appraisal in the following ways:
                             1. By providing "significant professional
                                assistance" to another appraiser and
                                having the duties you performed identified
                                in the report. If you perform at least 75%
                                of the professional appraisal work and the
                                appraisal conforms to the Uniform
                                Standards of Professional Appraisal
                                Practice (USPAP), this experience would
                                qualify under Category 10 (Assistance in
                                the Preparation of Appraisals) for up to a
                                maximum of 400 hours of credit; and/or
                             2. By performing the entire appraisal process
                                under the direct supervision of a
                                California licensed appraiser. The final
                                conclusion as to value is made by and the
                                appraisal is signed by the licensed
                                appraiser, with you and the duties you
                                performed identified in the report. If you
                                perform all appraisal methods customarily
                                used for a particular property type and
                                the appraisal conforms to the USPAP, this
                                experience would qualify under Category 1
                                (Fee and Staff Appraisal) with an
                                unlimited number of hours.


   Question: How can I gain acceptable experience as an unlicensed
   appraiser?
   Answer: Acceptable experience may be accumulated as an unlicensed
   appraiser in any of the following ways:
                             1. By providing "significant professional
                                assistance" to another appraiser and
                                having the duties you performed identified
                                in the report. If at least 75% of the
                                professional appraisal work is performed
                                by the unlicensed person and the appraisal
                                conforms to the Uniform Standards of
                                Professional Appraisal Practice (USPAP),
                                this experience would qualify under
                                Category 10 (Assistance in the Preparation
                                of Appraisals) for up to a maximum of 400
                                hours of credit;
                             2. By performing the entire appraisal process
                                under the direct supervision of a
                                California licensed appraiser. The final
                                conclusion to value is made by and the
                                appraisal is signed by the licensed
                                appraiser, with you and the duties you
                                performed identified in the report. If the
                                unlicensed person performs all appraisal
                                methods customarily used for a particular
                                property type and the appraisal conforms
                                to USPAP, this experience would qualify
                                under Category 1 (Fee and Staff Appraisal)
                                with an unlimited number of hours; and
                             3. By the unlicensed person completing
                                appraisals him or herself in non-federally
                                related transactions. In California, any
                                appraisal completed for a federally
                                related transaction requires a licensed
                                appraiser. However, work performed for
                                attorneys, private individuals, etc., are
                                generally not federally related
                                transactions and can be performed by
                                anyone. If the appraisal conforms to
                                USPAP, this experience would qualify under
                                Category 1 (Fee and Staff Appraisal) with
                                an unlimited number of hours.

    Return to Top

   Question: As a Trainee licensee, how can I find a supervising
   appraiser?
   Answer: We are unable to provide any "recommendations" for locating
   supervising appraisers. However, you may wish to consider contacting
   some of the professional appraisal organizations (Appraisal Institute,
   American Society of Appraisers, etc.) in your area to see if any of
   their members are looking for trainee appraisers. If not, ask to get on
   their newsletter mailing list because opportunities for trainees may
   arise.

   You may also consider contacting the County Assessor's office to see if
   there are any opportunities there.
   You may also find appraisers by checking our Find An Appraiser page.
   You may perform a search of licensees by license level, in a specific
   city or by zip codes if you prefer.

   Question: What states have reciprocity with California, and how do I
   apply for a reciprocal license?
   Answer: A list of reciprocal states is available by visiting our
   Reciprocity page.

   The following forms, all of which can be found on our Forms page, are
   required to apply for a Reciprocal license:
                             1. A completed Application for Reciprocal
                                License (REA 3025) and all required fees;
                             2. A completed Consent to Service of Process
                                (REA 3006) if your business, mailing or
                                residence address is outside of
                                California; and
                             3. A completed Statement of Citizenship,
                                Alienage, and Immigration Status for State
                                public Benefits (REA 3030), along with
                                your proof of legal presence in the United
                                States.

   You must also be fingerprinted. If you are in or plan to visit
   California, you may be fingerprinted via the Live Scan method (please
   contact our office for the required form). If you are outside
   California, you must submit two completed FD-258 fingerprint cards,
   which are not available on our website. If you are unable to obtain the
   fingerprint cards, you may contact our office and we will send them to
   you.
   In addition, applicants are responsible for ensuring that a Letter of
   License History, not more than 30 days old, is forwarded directly to
   OREA from the applicant's home state.
   The license will be valid until the expiration of the license issued in
   the applicant's home state. The home state license must then be renewed
   in order for the applicant to reapply for another California reciprocal
   license.

                           Return to Top



   Contact Us | Find an Appraiser | License Requirements |
   Temp Practice Permits
   Reciprocity | Forms | Education | Enforcement | FAQs |
   Laws and Regulations
   Newsletter | Press Releases | About OREA | Map | Customer Survey
   California Home Page | Governor's Home Page | Related Sites
   BTH Logo
   OREA Disclaimer    Legal Presence
   © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor.
