http://levin.senate.gov/sasc.htm

   HOME


                    Carl Levin - Armed Services Committee
                    Issues


               Photo of Donald Rumsfeld's confirmation hearing

   Senator Carl Levin chairs the confirmation hearing for Donald Rumsfeld
      to be Secretary of Defense. From left, Senators Ted Kennedy, Carl
             Levin, John Warner, Strom Thurmond and John McCain.

   Senator Carl Levin became Chairman of the Senate Committee on Armed
   Services on June 6, 2001. Senator Levin has been a member of the Armed
   Services Committee since he came to the Senate in 1979. As Chairman of
   the Committee, he serves as an ex-officio (non-voting) member of all
   six of the Committee's subcommittees.

   Senator Levin is committed to maintaining the Committee's traditional
   bipartisan approach to matters related to the national defense. He has
   brought to the Committee leadership his longstanding interest in the
   readiness, morale and welfare of our military forces and their
   families; modernization of our armed forces; cost-effective defense
   procurement and management practices; and efforts to reduce the threats
   to our Nation from the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
   Over the years, he has been successful in saving billions of dollars in
   excess Pentagon inventories of unneeded items (from nuts and bolts to
   medical supplies). A strong advocate of the "commonsense approach"
   toward improving defense purchasing practices, he was a driving force
   behind several pieces of landmark legislation to reform the defense
   acquisition system, including the Competition in Contracting Act of
   1984 and the Federal Acquisition Streamlining Act of 1994.

   Senator Levin has been an active supporter of improving U.S. security
   by cooperative threat reduction, including arms control agreements that
   reduce weapons of mass destruction and other excess military
   capability. He has championed Defense and Energy Department programs,
   particularly the Nunn-Lugar program, which are designed to reduce the
   threat of proliferation of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons
   from the former Soviet Union. Senator Levin remains committed to
   continued U.S.-Russian nuclear weapon reductions and to improved
   relations between our two countries. Senator Levin's efforts to curtail
   the proliferation of nuclear weapons will continue as he works for
   Senate reconsideration of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty.

      Photo of Carl Levin serving Thanksgiving dinner to the troops

   Sen. Levin serves Thanksgiving dinner to American servicemembers in
   Pakistan. More pictures are available in the Thanksgiving with the
                           Troops photo album.

      Senator Levin supported the expansion of the NATO Alliance to include
      Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic. He also supports efforts to
      permit NATO and other multinational coalitions to conduct multinational
      operations, thus sharing the responsibility for international security
      maintenance operations.

   In addition to his service on the Committee on Armed Services, Senator
   Levin is a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. He
   also serves as Co-Chairman of the Senate National Security Working
   Group, as he did for its predecessor, the Senate Arms Control Observer
   Group.

   Listed below are a number of issues Senator Levin has addressed on the
   Armed Services Committee.

   Acquisition Reform at DOD
   Attack on the USS COLE
   Base Closures
   Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty
   Department of Defense Oversight
   Department of Energy Oversight
   Dr. Samuel Mudd
   Federal Prison Industries
   Health Issues
   Kosovo
   Military in Michigan
   Military Pay and Benefits
   Military Readiness
   Military Reservists Business Relief Act
   National Defense Authorization
   National Missile Defense
   NATO
   Nominations
   Speeches on National Security
   Targeting Terrorism
   Thanksgiving with the Troops Photo Album
   Uniformed Services Filing Fairness Act
   U.S. Policy Toward Colombia
   U.S. Policy Toward Iraq
   V-22 Program

             Visit the Senate Armed Services Committee website.

                                [brblgrv.gif]

       Carl's Bio * Photo Gallery* Michigan Services* Senate Activity

          Press Page * Federal Links * Student Info * Contact Carl
