http://www.oklahoma.feb.gov/EmgcyPlanning.html

   [image002.gif]


                 Emergency Preparedness

                                                      And

                                           Continuity of Operations

                                                   Planning


This site is currently under construction.

                                                                      [image004.gif]


   Members of the Oklahoma FEB have a copy of the “red book”, Emergency
   Response Plan for Federal Agencies in Oklahoma, dated May 1999.  An
   interagency working group, intending to give information that agencies
   should include in their planning activities, developed this as a
   “template”.  It has been used as a model to follow by a number of other
   FEBs for their federal communities.


   With the events in New York City and at the Pentagon on September 11,
   2001, we feel it is necessary to review this template to include
   information that may be useful to address issues relevant to a
   different threat.  An interagency/intergovernmental Ad-Hoc Committee is
   currently working on dismantling the old Emergency Preparedness Plan.
   Each section is being reviewed for validity to determine inclusion in
   the new document.  Additional information will be provided in the new
   document, as well.


   Once this effort is complete, the new “template” will be distributed to
   federal agencies in Oklahoma in hardcopy and provided on this website
   for use by other federal communities as well as other levels of
   government.


   If you have questions regarding this effort, please contact the FEB
   Office at (405) 231-4167.


   After the events of September 11^th, the Oklahoma FEB decided to place
   a renewed emphasis on the FEB goal of “Coordinating Emergency and Other
   Interagency Actions”.  Many of the luncheons and activities this fiscal
   year will revolve around emergency planning and continuity of
   operations.

   Go to current Emergency Preparedness document

                                                Back to FEB Page
