http://www.accessamerica.gov/docs/training.html

   [USEMAP:headtraining.gif]
   [USEMAP:leftnavs.gif]


                   VISION:
    Enhance Information Technology Learning
               Full statement

   Story Archive

      A World Wide Web of Education Is FREE
      [free.jpg] The reviews are in and the United States Department of
      Education has a hit. Now playing nightly (and daily) in a classroom,
      homeroom, living room near you...wherever there is a computer connected
      to the Internet. And it's FREE.

      This Is NOT Your Father's 4-H Club
      [nnhteaching.jpg] The Department of Agriculture's 4-H program is
      embracing technology at full speed on the rural information
      superhighway. And an intergenerational partnership -- Teens Teaching
      Seniors -- brings 4-H teenagers and senior citizens together for fun
      and funny tutorials on how-to-surf-the-net.

      Information Revolution
      Will Kill 20th Century Dinosaurs
      [dino.gif] "...the demands of the Information Revolution will kill our
      20th century dinosaurs -- those organizations that cannot, or will not,
      adapt to the new global realities of the next millennium," said Office
      of Personnel Management Janice LaChance.

      Webcasting: HUD Broadcasts Online
      [hudwebcast.gif] Housing and Urban Development's Webcasts let people
      attend events "live" through the web. If a citizen or business partner
      can't make the broadcast time, no problem. Each live broadcast is
      archived and becomes part of HUD's video library, allowing access, 24
      hours a day, 7 days a week.

      Teaching With Technology
      [chalkboard.gif] The National Endowment for the Humanities has awarded
      Schools for a New Millennium grants to 20 schools nationwide. They will
      become models of how to use computer technology to enrich teaching of
      the humanities. NEH also maintains EDSITEment, a gateway site that
      presents the 49 best sites out of more than 65,000 humanities-related
      sites. Each site comes with lesson plans offering suggestions on how to
      use the materials effectively in the classroom.


      We're Looking for Stories
      As the number of government employees declines, the remaining employees
      must rely on technology to do their jobs. Technology training is
      essential for every employee from headquarters executives to front line
      employees. And technology can facilitate training, whether it is about
      policy, procedures, or technical know-how.

      Access America E-Gov E-Zine is looking for stories about federal
      agencies, or multi-agency partnerships, that are using information
      technology and telecommunications to train their workforce. Subject
      areas can range from basic computer competence and advanced systems and
      Internet applications to the agency's strategic vision and mission.

      These stories can be short, as in a "byte" of about 150 words, or they
      can be longer feature stories. Write feature stories in plain language
      with quotes from federal officials and employees who can attest to the
      benefits of training staff in the use of technology and using distance
      learning and network delivery to train their workforce.

      Include a contact person with phone number and email address. Send your
      stories to pat.wood@npr.gov or pat.smith@gsa.gov. If you need more
      information, call Pat Wood, National Partnership for Reinventing
      Government, (202) 694-0063. Please pass this request along to others
      who may be interested.
