http://polymers.msel.nist.gov/researcharea/characterization/index.html

   Polymer division banner


Characterization & Measurement Group


   The Characterization and Measurement Group provides standards,
   reference data, and measurements needed by industry, government
   agencies, and the scientific and technical communities for synthesis,
   processing and use of polymeric materials. Activities include
   developing new measurement techniques, data analysis algorithms, and
   theoretical models to support polymer materials characterization,
   quality control, process development, and performance. The group works
   closely with the other groups in the Polymers Division by providing
   technical support for ongoing programs throughout the division

   Research focuses on improved methods for determining molecular
   architecture and microstructure of polymers. Recent program activities
   exploit advances in mass spectrometry using matrix assisted laser
   desorption ionization (MALDI) to develop the method as a primary tool
   for determining the molecular mass distribution (MMD) of synthetic
   polymers, with particular emphasis on commercially important
   polyolefins. The MMD has a dramatic effect on processibility and
   properties of polymers. Expertise is maintained in traditional methods
   of determining MMD, or moments of MMD, including light scattering,
   chromatography, NMR and infrared spectroscopy.

   Advances are sought in measurements of solid-state structure of
   polymers, including optical coherent tomography (OCT), inelastic
   neutron scattering, and sum frequency generation spectroscopy.
   Mechanical properties and performance are significantly affected by the
   solid-state structure formed during processing. Importantly, unlike
   many other common engineering materials, polymers exhibit mechanical
   properties with time dependent viscoelastic behaviors. As a result, the
   program also focuses on techniques that measure the solid-state
   structure and rheological behavior of polymeric materials.

   The polymer industry and standards organizations assist in the
   identification of current needs for standard reference materials. Based
   on these needs, research on characterization methods and measurements
   are conducted leading to the certification of standard reference
   materials. Molecular standards are used primarily for calibration of
   gel permeation chromatographs, the principal method employed by
   industry for assessing molecular mass and molecular mass distributions.
   Melt flow standards are used in the calibration of instruments used to
   determine processing conditions for thermoplastics. Non-Newtonian
   rheological standards are also developed to exhibit the typical
   polymeric behaviors of shear thinning and normal stresses; these
   standards are also used for calibration of rheological instruments and
   for research into improved measurement methods. Reference biomaterials
   are produced for test method harmonization, assessment of new materials
   and generation of reference data.


   OCT cross-sectional image of a hydrogel tissue scaffold


   NIST Materials Science & Engineering Laboratory - Polymers Division

   Research Area
   bullet Characterization & Measurement

          bullet  Projects
          bullet  Staff
          bullet  Highlights
   bullet Electronic Materials
   bullet Biomaterials
   bullet Multiphase Materials
   bullet Processing Characterization
   bullet Multivariant Meaurement Methods
