http://santaclara.lafco.ca.gov/2002_survey_letter.pdf

   LOCAL AGENCY FORMATION COMMISSION SANTA CLARA COUNTY
   www.santaclara.lafco.ca.gov County Government Center, 11th Floor, East
   Wing 70 West Hedding Street, San Jose, CA 95110 (408) 299-5127 FAX
   295-1613 Neelima Palacherla, Executive Officer January 9, 2002 Title>


    Re: 2002 LAFCO Survey of Special Districts in Santa Clara County The
    Local Agency Formation Commission (LAFCO) of Santa Clara County will
    be developing a directory of special districts in the county. We
    currently have some information on file for your special district,
    but some of the information may be incomplete or out of date. We are
    surveying your district in order to prepare an up-to-date profile of
    your district that will be included in this directory. We hope you
    will assist our effort by completing the attached survey. The
    information collected will also help LAFCO prepare for conducting
    special district service reviews. The Cortese Knox Hertzberg Local
    Government Reorganization Act of 2000 requires the LAFCO to prepare
    and update service reviews of municipal services every five years
    prior to or in conjunction with the preparation of Sphere of
    Influence (SOI) reviews. The Commission is required to
    comprehensively review all of the agencies that provide municipal
    services within a designated area and prepare a written statement of
    determination with respect to factors such as: infrastructure needs
    or deficiencies, growth and population projections for the affected
    area, financing constraints and opportunities, cost avoidance
    opportunities, opportunities for sharing facilities, government
    structure options, including advantages and disadvantages of
    consolidation, evaluation of management efficiencies, local
    accountability and governance. The State Office of Planning and
    Research (OPR) is required to and is in the process of providing
    guidelines for conducting these service reviews. However, OPR is not
    expected to finalize these guidelines until spring of 2002. In
    addition to preparing a directory of special districts, LAFCO has
    also undertaken the task of developing and maintaining maps of
    special district boundaries and their SOIs on a Geographic
    Information System (GIS). Initial development of boundaries in GIS is
    a considerable undertaking and LAFCO is requesting your assistance in
    this project. These maps once developed will be a great resource not
    only to LAFCO and the special districts, but also to the public we
    serve. Please provide LAFCO with either hard copies or electronic
    versions of the most current boundary maps for your special district
    as soon Commissioners: Blanca Alvarado, Donald F. Gage, Suzanne
    Jackson, Linda LeZotte, Susan Vicklund Wilson Commission Secretary:
    (408) 299-4321 as possible. If you have any questions or suggestions
    about the mapping project, please call me at (408) 299-5127. As a
    reminder, on January 22, 2002, LAFCO is holding a workshop on special
    district annexation/reorganizations, service reviews, and sphere of
    influence reviews. We strongly suggest that you attend this workshop.
    LAFCO staff will discuss the Special District Profile Project, and
    the Mapping Project in greater detail at the workshop. You may also
    submit your completed survey, including maps, to LAFCO staff at the
    workshop. Please RSVP to Emmanuel Abello, LAFCO Clerk, at (408)
    299-5088 to confirm your attendance at the workshop. Lastly, we
    request that you complete and return the survey along with the
    boundary maps as soon as possible, but no later than Friday, January
    25, 2002. You may download the survey from the LAFCO website
    (http://www.santaclara.lafco.ca.gov) and e-mail your responses to
    Dunia Noel, LAFCO Analyst, at dunia.noel@ceo.co.santa-clara.ca.us. If
    you have any questions regarding the survey please contact Dunia Noel
    at (408) 299-5148. In summary, LAFCO staff is available to address
    any questions you might have about these important projects. Project
    contacts are as follows: Contact Emmanual Abello, LAFCO Clerk at
    (408) 299-5088 to RSVP for the January 22nd workshop. Contact Dunia
    Noel, LAFCO Analyst at (408) 299-5148 concerning the 2002 LAFCO
    Survey of Special Districts. Contact Neelima Palacherla, Executive
    Officer at (408) 299-5127 concerning the Special District Mapping
    Project. Sincerely, Neelima Palacherla Executive Officer Cc: LAFCO
    Members Special District Board of Directors Attachment Attachment A -
    2002 LAFCO Survey of Special Districts 2
