http://www.sustainable.doe.gov/welcome.shtml


                          EREN Department of Energy
   Text Only | Español
   Center of Excellence for Sustainable Development
   Welcome Contact Us Site Index Newsletter

   Topics in Sustainability



   [hp_bullet.gif] Overview
                   Green Buildings
                   Green Development
                   Land Use Planning
                   Measuring Progress
                   Disaster Planning
                   Community Energy
                   Transportation
                   Sustainable Business
                   Financing
                   Rural Issues
                   Resource Efficiency
                   Air•Water•Materials

     Welcome to the U.S. Department of Energy's Center of Excellence for
                      Sustainable Development Website.

   We are delighted to offer you this menu of information and services on
   how your community can adopt sustainable development as a strategy for
   well-being. You'll be in good company. We're finding that more and more
   cities, villages, neighborhoods and regions are using sustainable
   development as a guiding principle not only for near-term projects, but
   also for planning their futures. That's because sustainable projects:
     * Strengthen your local economy;
     * Improve and protect the quality of the environment; and
     * Enhance the quality of life and the well-being of all of the people
       in your community.

   As your community's environment, economy and quality of life grow
   stronger, so does your future. That's because truly sustainable
   development produces enduring benefits, not just today, but for our
   children and their children as well. But sustainable development
   projects offer real benefits in the short term, too. They create jobs.
   They lower operating costs for homes, businesses and taxpayers. They
   reduce pollution control costs. They make your community more
   attractive as a place to live and do business. In the database of case
   studies on this home page, you'll see hard evidence that these benefits
   are real.

   Why is the U.S. Department of Energy interested in sustainable
   development? First, one of our core missions is to make sure the nation
   has ample supplies of clean, affordable energy. America's energy future
   is being built neighborhood by neighborhood. As your community makes
   its development decisions — with all of the attendant impacts on
   transportation patterns, building efficiency, industrial productivity
   and so on — you affect national energy security, as well as the
   nation's economic and environmental health.

   Second, DOE's research and development programs are producing
   cutting-edge technologies that can play an integral role in your
   community's sustainable development efforts — for example, technologies
   that make buildings 50% more energy-efficient, that help industries
   prevent pollution, and that produce electric power from clean,
   renewable resources, to name just a few.

   A complete community sustainable development program will go beyond
   these technologies. For example, it will include efforts to reduce
   poverty and to make your neighborhoods safer from crime. A number of
   other Federal agencies offer programs to help in these areas.

   On this home page, you'll be able to:
     * Read about other communities that have discovered the benefits of
       sustainable development;
     * Locate technical and financial resources that can help your
       community plan and carry out sustainable development projects; and
     * Access model codes and ordinances other communities have used to
       implement sustainable development.


   We've also equipped the home page with a feedback feature. Please take
   the time to comment on how we can improve our toolbox of information.

   America's strongest communities in the years ahead will be those that
   consciously adopt sustainable development as the guiding principle of
   their growth. We hope your community will be one of them.
   Back to Top


                    Contacts | Disclaimer | EREN | Search
