http://www.doi.gov/news/020116.html

                       U.S. Department of the Interior

                              [news_header.jpg]

Office of the Secretary

                                                                                 Contact: Dian Lawhon

For Release: January 15, 2002

                                                                                       (202) 208-3985

                 INTERIOR DEPARTMENT TO ISSUE FINAL RULE ON
                    APPLYING FOR DEEPWATER ROYALTY RELIEF

   A final rule on new procedures for obtaining royalty relief for certain
   offshore federal deepwater leases was announced today by Secretary of
   the Interior Gale A. Norton. The rule will be published in today's
   Federal Register.

   The rule will allow some lease operators to apply for additional
   discretionary relief where royalty relief in the lease term is
   insufficient and the marginal nature of the project will preclude its
   further development. It will shorten the processing time for evaluating
   future applications and reduce the time needed by operators to prepare
   applications for new leases.

   "This action is consistent with one of the recommendations made to the
   President under the National Energy Plan Study, " said the Secretary.
   "The NEP study recommends that I consider economic incentives for
   environmentally sound offshore oil and gas development and explore
   opportunities for royalty reductions, consistent with ensuring a fair
   return to the public."

   This rule is one in a series of several steps being undertaken by the
   Department of the Interior to carry out that recommendation. The new
   rule applies to leases issued before 1996 and after 2000 for all areas
   in the Gulf lying west of the Florida-Alabama boundary. It is a direct
   result of MMS' experiences processing previous applications under the
   Deepwater Royalty Relief Act of 1995.

   "The effect of this new rule will be increased natural gas and oil
   production, which will help the nation to meet our growing demand for
   these energy resources," added Norton. "It will also provide an
   incentive for developing marginal properties resulting in additional
   revenue to the U.S. Treasury."

   For leases sold after 2000, MMS will consider applications from lessees
   that may already have some royalty relief, but need additional amounts
   to be economical. Also, applications will now focus on development
   projects on a lease basis rather than on the more difficult to define
   basis of geologic fields. Upon approval of an application, the amount
   of relief will be directly related to the economic viability of the
   project as presented by the operator and evaluated by MMS scientists
   and economists.

   The new rule also makes some changes in the way applications for
   royalty relief are processed for deepwater leases sold prior to 1996.
   Under the Deepwater Royalty Relief Act of 1995, the Interior Department
   had 180 days to make a decision on a completed application. This will
   now be reduced to not more than 150 days. Also, consistent with
   applications for leases issued after 2000, the same categories of
   historic costs can now be included for expansion projects.

   The MMS has granted seven deepwater applications for royalty relief
   since 1996.

   MMS is the federal agency in the U.S. Department of the Interior that
   manages the nation's oil, natural gas, and other mineral resources on
   the outer continental shelf in federal offshore waters. The agency also
   collects, accounts for, and disburses mineral revenues from federal and
   Indian leases. These revenues totaled nearly $10 billion last year and
   more than $119 billion since the agency was created in 1982. Annually,
   nearly $1 billion from those revenues go into the Land and Water
   Conservation Fund for the acquisition and development of state and
   federal park and recreation lands.

                                    -DOI-

    You can get to the Department of the Interior from here

    You can also view the index of press releases

    U.S. Department of the Interior, Washington, DC, USA
