http://www.oha.doe.gov/cases/ee/vea0015.htm

                   Case Nos. VEA-0015, VEA-0016 and VEA-0017

     March 2, 2001

     DECISION AND ORDER

     OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

     Appeals

     Names of Petitioners: Sub-Zero Freezer Co.

     GE Appliances

     Whirlpool Corporation

     Dates of Filing: December 1, 2000

     December 5, 2000

     December 15, 2000

     Case Numbers: VEA-0015

     VEA-0016

     VEA-0017

     Sub-Zero Freezer Co. (Sub-Zero), GE Appliances (GE), and Whirlpool
     Corporation (Whirlpool) filed appeals of our November 3, 2000
     decision, granting Viking Range Corporation (Viking) a six-month
     exception from the 2001 energy appliance efficiency standards for
     built-in refrigerators. Viking Range Corp., 28 DOE ¶ 81,002 (2000).
     As discussed below, we have granted the appeals in part. As a
     result, the six-month exception will be limited to 475 refrigerators
     per month and will be subject to a monthly reporting requirement.

I. Background

     The Energy Policy and Conservation Act (EPCA) directed the DOE to
     review and revise the 1989 energy conservation standards applicable
     to refrigerators. See EPCA §325(b)(3)(B), 42 U.S.C. § 6295(b)(3)(B);
     54 Fed. Reg. 47916 (November 17, 1989). Pursuant to that direction,
     in 1997, the DOE finalized new standards that become effective on
     July 1, 2001. 62 Fed. Reg. 23101 (April 28, 1997).

     The DOE Organization Act (DOEOA) authorizes the DOE to grant
     exceptions to EPCA standards. DOEOA § 504(a), 42 U.S.C. 7194(a). The
     DOEOA permits adjustments “consistent with the purposes” of EPCA,
     “as may be necessary to prevent special hardship, inequity, or
     unfair distribution of burdens.” The preamble to the notice
     promulgating the new refrigerator efficiency standards specifically
     refers to this provision. 62 Fed. Reg. at 23,108-09. As the preamble
     indicates, the DOE may grant an exception for a limited time and may
     place other conditions on the grant of relief, including conditions
     related to the effects of the relief on competition. Id. at 23,109.

     The DOE’s procedural regulations set forth the procedures applicable
     to exception applications. 10 C.F.R. Part 1003, Subparts B and C.
     Subpart B provides the procedures for considering an exception
     request. Subpart C provides the procedures for an appeal of an
     exception decision.

     Viking markets a diverse line of appliances for cooking, cleanup and
     refrigeration. Viking initially specialized in cooking equipment but
     in 1993 decided to add built-in refrigerators as a product line.
     Viking historically purchased those refrigerators from Whirlpool.
     When, in late 1999, Whirlpool terminated that arrangement, Viking
     purchased from Amana Appliances (Amana) for several months until
     Amana decided to stop manufacturing built-in refrigerators. In April
     2000 Viking purchased the Amana equipment and moved the equipment to
     its new facility in Greenwood, Mississippi. Greenwood is located in
     the Mississippi Delta, one of the most impoverished areas in the
     United States.

     In June 2000, Viking requested that OHA grant it an exception from
     the new refrigerator efficiency standards for built-in
     refrigerators. Specifically, Viking requested a 12-month extension
     to comply with the standards. Viking contended that it was unable to
     meet the July 1, 2001 deadline, and that its unique circumstances
     warranted exception relief.

     Viking’s three competitors - Sub-Zero, Whirlpool, and GE - filed
     comments in opposition to Viking’s request.(1) The competitors did
     not challenge Viking’s contention that it was unable to meet the
     deadline; instead, the competitors argued that Viking’s inability to
     meet the deadline was the result of its own discretionary business
     decisions and that an exception would cause them competitive harm.

     In our November 3 decision, we granted Viking’s request in part.
     Viking, 28 DOE ¶ 81,002. Specifically, we granted Viking a six-
     month extension to meet the new standards, based on our conclusion
     that the application of the July 1, 2001 effective date to Viking
     would create an unfair distribution of burdens. With respect to the
     underlying facts, we found that

     (i) Viking historically outsourced the manufacture of its built-in
     refrigerators;

     (ii) as of 1999, four firms manufactured built-in refrigerators:
     Sub-Zero; Whirlpool; Diversified Refrigeration, Inc. (DRI), which
     supplied GE; and Amana;

     (iii) in the fall of 1999, Whirlpool announced that it would no
     longer supply Viking;

     (iv) because Sub-Zero and DRI similarly would not supply Viking,
     Amana was Viking’s only outsourcing choice;

     (v) Viking purchased refrigerators from Amana for several months,
     until Amana decided to stop producing built-in refrigerators and to
     leave the market;

     (vi) Viking purchased Amana’s built-in refrigeration equipment in
     April 2000 and moved the equipment from Amana’s plant in Iowa to
     Viking’s plant in Mississippi;

     (vii) Amana’s lack of progress on meeting the standards precluded
     Viking from achieving compliance by the July 1, 2001 effective date;

     (viii) In the absence of exception relief, Viking would not be able
     to sell built-in refrigerators for six months, which would
     jeopardize its share of the built-in refrigerator market and have a
     collateral negative impact on its sales of other appliances; and

     (ix) The grant of exception relief would have minimal impact on
     national energy conservation objectives and on Viking’s competitors.

     Sub-Zero, Whirlpool, and GE appealed the decision. In their appeals,
     Sub-Zero and Whirlpool opposed the relief granted in the November 3
     decision. GE, on the other hand, abandoned its opposition to the
     request and merely requested a technical modification, i.e., that
     the exception relief be expressly limited to the refrigerator models
     for which Viking sought relief.

     In conjunction with its appeal, Sub-Zero requested an evidentiary
     hearing on five issues. We granted Sub-Zero’s request for a hearing
     on three of those issues. Sub-Zero Freezer Co., 28 DOE _____
     (January 31, 2001). Those three issues were (i) whether, when Viking
     purchased Amana, Viking had outsourcing options, (ii) whether the
     burden of not selling built-in refrigerators for six months would be
     significant, and (iii) whether a six-month extension of the deadline
     would give Viking a significant competitive advantage. We denied
     Sub-Zero’s request for an evidentiary hearing on two issues. Those
     issues were: (i) whether having a built-in refrigerator that will
     meet the July 1, 2001 deadline is a vital part of Viking’s business
     strategy and (ii) whether Viking knew of Amana’s lack of progress
     necessary to meet the July 1, 2001 deadline. We concluded that
     evidence on the latter issues would not produce material evidence.

     Subsequent to our January 31 decision, Sub-Zero declined the
     opportunity for an evidentiary hearing. Sub-Zero maintained that
     Viking, not Sub-Zero, should have the burden of presenting evidence
     on the identified issues.

     During the pendency of the appeals, we requested a variety of
     information from the parties.

     First, we requested that Viking identify the models for which it
     sought relief and its volume of sales of those models during each
     month in 1999 and 2000. Viking provided this information.

     We also requested that the parties comment on a possible limitation
     on the exception relief to address the appellants’ concern that
     exception relief would give Viking a competitive advantage. We
     proposed to limit the number of units produced during the period of
     exception relief, and we requested the parties’ views on such a
     limitation. Letters dated December 8, 2000 & January 12, 2001 from
     Thomas L. Wieker, Deputy Director, Office of Hearings and Appeals,
     to the parties. Sub-Zero and Whirlpool viewed such a limitation as
     an improvement over the November 3 decision but nonetheless
     inadequate to address their concern of competitive harm. Viking and
     GE disagreed with such a limitation, arguing that such a limitation
     was anti-competitive.

     On February 1, 2001, GE’s supplier, DRI, filed its own exception
     application. Diversified Refrigeration, Inc., Case No. VEE-0079. DRI
     contended that it was unable to meet the deadline because of a
     shortage of engineer staff. We are considering that application in a
     separate decision.

     In addition to requesting information and comments concerning a
     limitation on relief, we also requested information related to the
     claims of Sub-Zero and Whirlpool that an exception would cause them
     competitive harm.

     We requested information on the parties’ ability and intent to
     stockpile non-compliant refrigerators(2) prior to the July 1, 2001
     effective date. To the extent that Viking’s competitors are able to
     stockpile, such stockpiling would ameliorate the impact of a Viking
     exception; similarly, to the extent that Viking is able to
     stockpile, Viking’s need for exception relief is reduced. Sub-Zero
     did not submit information; Whirlpool, Viking and DRI submitted
     information and denied that they could significantly stockpile.

     We also gave Sub-Zero and Whirlpool the opportunity to submit
     information to support their claim that the relief put them at a
     cost disadvantage, i.e., their expected change in marginal cost
     related to out-of-pocket manufacturing costs. Sub-Zero declined this
     opportunity, but Whirlpool submitted the information.

     Finally, all parties agreed that the built-in refrigerator market
     comprises a very small segment of the domestic refrigerator market.
     In 1999, over 9 million refrigerators were produced, of which
     approximately 140,000 were built-in refrigerators. It is also agreed
     that Sub-Zero has over half of the built-in refrigerator market,
     that Viking has roughly three percent, and that the remainder is
     divided between Whirlpool and DRI’s customer, GE.

     Sub-Zero and Whirlpool filed final briefs, and we held oral argument
     on February 27. The hearing panel included an economist.

II. Analysis

  A. Whether Viking Can Produce or Purchase Compliant Models Beginning July 1,
  2001

     It is undisputed that Viking cannot produce compliant refrigerators
     by the July 1, 2001 deadline. Sub-Zero argues, however, that Viking
     has the burden of establishing that Viking is unable to obtain
     built-in refrigerators from another manufacturer.

     Viking has made a reasonable demonstration that it cannot obtain
     built-in refrigerators from another manufacturer. It is undisputed
     that none of the manufacturers involved in these proceedings - Sub-
     Zero, Whirlpool, and DRI - will sell to Viking, presumably for their
     own competitive reasons.(3) In our January 31 decision, we advised
     the parties that we knew of no other source of built-in
     refrigerators, and we offered to hold an evidentiary hearing on the
     issue whether other manufacturers existed. Sub-Zero declined this
     opportunity, and none of the manufacturers known to us - all of
     which are involved in these proceedings - has suggested an
     alternative source for Viking.

     Based on the foregoing, we have concluded that Viking has made a
     reasonable demonstration that it will not be able to produce or
     purchase compliant models by the July 1, 2001 deadline.

  B. Whether Viking’s Inability to Have Compliant Models on July 1, 2001
  Warrants Exception Relief

     As indicated in our November 3 decision, we believe that Viking’s
     inability to meet the July 1, 2001 deadline under these
     circumstances warrants limited exception relief. Sub-Zero and
     Whirlpool disagree, raising the following issues.

     1. Whether Viking’s Inability to Meet the Deadline Results From
     Discretionary Business Decisions

     Sub-Zero argues that Viking’s inability to meet the deadline results
     from a variety of discretionary decisions and, therefore, that
     exception relief is unwarranted. Sub-Zero cites, as discretionary
     business decisions, Viking’s decision to enter the built-in
     refrigerator market by outsourcing while developing its own
     production capability, Viking’s decision to purchase the Amana
     equipment, and Viking’s decision to move the Amana equipment from
     Amana’s plant in Iowa to Viking’s plant in Mississippi. Sub-Zero
     argues that if Viking had devoted greater resources to developing
     its own production capability, Viking could have met the deadline.

     As an initial matter, we observe that the characterization of a
     decision as “discretionary” does not preclude the grant of exception
     relief. In one sense, every decision is “discretionary”: the word
     “decision” denotes the making of a choice. Under that use of the
     word “discretionary”, any need for relief could be traced to the
     discretionary decision to begin the business for which an exception
     is sought. Accordingly, the mere fact that a firm would not need
     exception relief had it made a different choice or a different set
     of choices does not preclude exception relief. Instead, exception
     relief is not appropriate where a firm makes a choice that does not
     reasonably take into account its regulatory obligations. In such
     cases, we refer to the choice as the “primary” cause of the firm’s
     difficulty. See, e.g., Ince Minerals Corp., 3 DOE ¶ 81,136 at 83,498
     (1979) (firm’s financial difficulties attributable to its incorrect
     assessment of quality of reserves rather than DOE regulations).

     We do not believe that Viking’s choices were unreasonable in light
     of the July 1, 2001 deadline. In 1993, Viking decided to enter the
     built-in refrigerator market, and Viking approached each appellant
     about serving as its supplier. In 1995, Viking arranged to purchase
     from Whirlpool and began to do so in 1997, the year that the new
     standards were announced. Viking continued to purchase from
     Whirlpool until Whirlpool’s termination of the agreement in 1999.
     Viking then purchased from Amana, and, when Amana decided to stop
     producing built-in refrigerators, Viking purchased Amana’s equipment
     and moved the equipment to Viking’s Mississippi plant. Those
     decisions were reasonable and do not reflect a cavalier attitude
     toward the July 1, 2001 deadline. The possibility that a different
     set of decisions might have permitted Viking to meet the deadline
     does not mean that the path Viking chose precludes it from receiving
     exception relief. Thus, we reject the argument that Viking’s
     reliance on outsourcing until it could establish its own production
     capability precludes relief.(4)

     Given the foregoing, we believe that Viking’s various business
     choices do not preclude a grant of exception relief. Accordingly, we
     proceed to consider arguments that the burden to Viking, its
     employees, community and suppliers, of not being able to produce
     built-in refrigerators for six months is less than the burden to the
     appellants if exception relief is granted.

     2. Whether the burden of not selling built-in refrigerators for a
     six-month period outweighs the alleged harm to competitors

     Sub-Zero argues that Viking has not established that the burden to
     Viking outweighs the competitive harm that Sub-Zero and Whirlpool
     would suffer if we permitted Viking a six-month extension in which
     to sell its non-compliant refrigerators.(5)

     We believe that it is clear that, in the absence of relief, Viking,
     its employees, its community, and its suppliers would suffer a
     significant burden. A six-month suspension of its refrigerator sales
     involves a loss of profit on each of the sales, the lay-off of
     employees, and a disruption to Viking’s relationship with its
     suppliers. In addition, as we stated in the January 31 decision, we
     believe that it is a generally accepted proposition that a firm’s
     six-month suspension of sales of an existing product line
     jeopardizes the firm’s market share of that line and has serious
     consequences on its ability to be competitive in the future. Indeed,
     Whirlpool itself argues that a short-term reduction in sales of
     built-in refrigerators would jeopardize its market share of
     refrigerators and related kitchen appliances. Whirlpool December 15,
     2000 submission at 2. Accordingly, arguments that attempt to
     minimize the impact of a six-month suspension of sales on Viking,
     its employees, community, and suppliers are without merit.

     In contrast, we question whether the appellants would experience
     harm from the grant of exception relief. The appellants’ primary
     concern is that Viking could use the lower production cost of the
     non-compliant refrigerators to gain market share. The appellants
     argue that Viking will not pass through its design and retooling
     cost during the relief period. We do not agree. As we indicated in
     the January 31 decision, firms pass through costs unless precluded
     by market conditions or a desire to increase market share. The
     exception relief will not change market conditions, which will apply
     to all the manufacturers of built-in refrigerators. Moreover, we
     believe that a limit or “cap” on the number of units that can be
     produced pursuant to the exception relief largely ameliorates any
     concern about increased market share. Indeed, Sub-Zero and Whirlpool
     indicate that such a limitation would help address their concern.
     Tr. at 24-25, 53-55. As explained below, we believe that the
     imposition of a cap is appropriate.

  C. Whether A Cap on the Exception Relief is Appropriate

     As indicated above, during the briefing period, we advised the
     parties that, if we were to uphold the grant of relief, we would
     seriously consider limiting the exception relief to a specific
     number of refrigerators. Viking opposed such a limit, arguing that
     Viking did not want any constraints on increasing its sales. GE
     supported Viking, arguing that a cap would be anti-competitive.

     After considering this matter carefully, we have concluded that it
     is appropriate to place a cap on the relief. A cap on the relief
     accomplishes two important objectives. First, as indicated above, a
     cap addresses the appellants’ concerns about competitive harm.
     Second, a cap helps to assure that, in the future, firms will not
     view exception relief as a short term alternative to compliance and
     that recipients of relief will expeditiously bring themselves into
     compliance. Thus, the purpose of a cap is not to “punish” the
     recipient of exception relief, as suggested by Viking and GE, see
     Tr. at 35, 79. Rather, the purpose of a cap is to avoid creating an
     advantage to the recipient during the pendency of the relief and to
     provide a firm limit on any incentive for non-compliance with the
     efficiency regulations.

     In choosing the number for the cap, we believe that the number
     should permit the firm to operate normally but should be designed to
     assure competitors that the recipient of relief is not at a
     competitive advantage. If we must err, we believe that it should be
     on the side of caution in order to recognize that competitors are
     the ones that took all the necessary steps to comply with the
     standards. This is an important matter, particularly given the
     recent promulgation of new efficiency standards for other
     appliances. See 66 Fed. Reg. 3312 (January 12, 2001), amended 66
     Fed. Reg. 8745 (February 2, 2001) (clothes washers); 66 Fed. Reg.
     3335 (January 12, 2001), amended 66 Fed. Reg. 8745 (February 2,
     2001) (commercial heating, air conditioning and water heating
     equipment); 66 Fed. Reg. 7169 (January 22, 2001), amended 66 Fed.
     Reg. 8745 (February 2, 2001) (central air conditioners and heat
     pumps). We do not want this decision to have the effect of inviting
     non-meritorious applications for exception from those new standards.
     In this increasingly important area of appliance energy efficiency,
     we realize that the changes required for manufacturers are
     substantial. The availability of exception relief to adjust for
     serious mis-steps toward compliance helps to make the system work
     properly.(6) Nevertheless, an exception should be framed in a way
     that allows a manufacturer only to get back on schedule towards
     compliance without serious interruptions, not to gain advantage over
     its competitors. Accordingly, although we continue to believe that
     Viking is entitled to six months of exception relief (from July 1,
     2001 to December 31, 2001), we are modifying the relief as follows:
     (i) the relief is limited to specific models for which Viking sought
     relief (SB482, SB485, and BB362), (ii) the relief for all three
     models combined is limited to the production of a maximum of 475
     refrigerators in any given month, and (iii) the relief is contingent
     upon the filing of monthly reports, due by the 15th of the month
     after the reporting month, listing the number of refrigerators of
     each model produced in the reporting month and showing Viking’s
     progress in achieving compliance.

III. Conclusion

     As the foregoing indicates, we have concluded that the appeals of
     our November 3 decision should be granted in part and that the
     exception relief should be limited as specified above.

     It Is Therefore Ordered That:

     (1) The Appeals filed by Sub-Zero Freezer Co., GE Appliances, and
     Whirlpool Corporation be and hereby are granted in part as set forth
     in Paragraphs 2, 3, and 4 below.

     (2) The six months of exception relief - from July 1, 2001 to
     December 31, 2001- approved in Viking Range Corp., 28 DOE ¶ 81,002
     (2000), be and hereby is limited as set forth in Paragraphs 3 and 4
     below.

     (3) The relief is limited to model numbers SB482, SB485, and BB362,
     and the relief for each month for all three models combined is
     limited to a maximum production of 475 refrigerators.

     (4) For each month of the exception relief, Viking shall file a
     report showing (i) the number of non-compliant refrigerators
     produced that month, broken down by model number, and (ii) Viking’s
     progress in achieving compliance with the new standards. The report
     shall be due by the 15th of the month immediately following the
     reporting month.

     (5) This is a final order of the Department of Energy.

     George B. Breznay

     Director

     Office of Hearings and Appeals

     Date: March 2, 2001

     (1)Sub-Zero comments dated August 7, 2000; Whirlpool comments dated
     August 10, 2000; GE comments dated August 10, 2000.

     (2)We use the term “non-compliant refrigerators” to refer to those
     that comply with existing standards but will not comply with the new
     standards.

     (3)Sub-Zero and Whirlpool have not stated why they will not supply
     Viking; DRI is limited by an exclusive agreement to manufacture for
     GE.

     (4)This argument appeared primarily in Sub-Zero’s final brief which
     was accompanied by an affidavit of a former Viking employee and a
     Viking memorandum to distributors. Because we reject this argument
     as unpersuasive, we need not address Viking’s objection at oral
     argument to the inclusion of the material in the record. See
     Transcript of February 27, 2001 Hearing (hereinafter “Tr.”) at 13.

     (5)No one disputes that the impact of the requested exception on
     energy conservation goals is de minimis. Over 9 million
     refrigerators are sold each year; as explained below, we are
     granting a six-month exception for a maximum of 2850 refrigerators.

     (6)Scholars have recognized the importance of the “safety valve”
     function that the exceptions process provides. See, e.g., Alfred C.
     Aman, Jr., “An Analysis of Exceptions to Administrative Rules,” 1982
     Duke L.J. 277.
