http://www.dcb.uscourts.gov/newsletter.pdf

   Newsletter Date: January 2001 Volume 1, Issue 1 DCB CM/ECF Newsletter U
   n i t e d S t a t e s B a n k r u p t c y C o u r t D i s t r i c t o f
   C o l u m b i a C l e r k o f C o u r t ' s O f f i c e WELCOME TO THE
   DCB CM/ECF MONTHLY NEWSLETTER The Clerk's Office is scheduled to
   implement the The DCB CM/ECF Newsletter will be a tool to try federal
   judiciary's new Case Management/ to answer questions we have Electronic
   Case Filing (CM/ECF) system in the regarding the new system. If first
   quarter of calendar year 2002  approxi- you have any specific ques-
   mately 12 months from now. In an effort to keep tions or general areas
   of con- the entire office informed on what CM/ECF is, cern, please
   share them with how it works, and most importantly, how it will me. I
   will research the an- impact each of us and the job we currently per-
   swers and share them form, we will be distributing a monthly DCB with
   the office via the The goal of the Newsletter is CM/ECF Newsletter.
   Newsletter. to explore  not to bore. Please send me your CM/ECF ques-
   tions... and Newsletter comments!! As we learn more about the CM/ECF
   features Thanks, Brenda Ext. 112 and functions, we will use this
   Newsletter to Brenda Esteves, Ext. 112 share the information with the
   Clerk's Office. Hopefully this Newsletter will help us all become more
   familiar with CM/ECF and how it works. electronically must be in
   Portable Document Format W HAT IS CM/ECF? (PDF). IN THIS ISSUE: The
   basis for the Case Management/Electronic Case Welcome 1 Filing (CM/ECF)
   system was the judiciary's need to Internal users ( the courts) will
   use the Data Commu- change current case management applications,
   includ- nications Network (DCN) (the judiciary's private net- What is
   CM/ECF 1-2 ing BANCAP. work) to access CM/ECF. External users
   (attorneys, trustees, and the public) will access it using the Inter-
   Resources 2 Coinciding with the judiciary's replacement of its le g-
   net. External interaction with CM/ECF occurs acy systems, advances in
   technology now make it pos- through: a Web browser, HTML forms that
   enable Task Force 2 Forming sible to efficiently and securely transfer
   information document attachments, and interactive software. The
   electronically from attorneys' and trustees' offices to Web server
   application software collects the forms Courts Currently 2 the Court.
   All case information will be accessible to data, processes it, and
   forwards data and documents Using CM/ECF certified users 24 hours a
   day, seven days a week. to a private server for storage. Benefits of 2
   CM/ECF supports the unique interests of different As byproducts of the
   filing, case management infor- CM/ECF communities (courts, trustees,
   attorneys, and the pub- mation is created and notices of filing are
   transmitted lic) while providing the same range of document proc- to
   case participants. Immediately upon filing, the essing capabilities to
   all. People filing bankruptcy case docket sheet and associated
   documents become documents can do so electronically over a network by
   available on-line to both the case participants and the using a
   standard Web browser. Documents submitted public. Volume 1, Issue 1
   Page 2 WHAT IS CM/ECF (CONT.) For example, an attorney prepares a
   motion on her PC with her word processor of choice. She saves the
   document and "prints" it using Adobe's PDFWriter. Using her Web
   browser, she then connects to the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Courts
   currently using CM/ECF: District of Columbia home page and "files" the
   motion. The attached PDF document is auto- Bankruptcy Courts: matically
   forwarded to the Court's CM/ECF Arizona Web site. Once the data is
   validated by our staff, CM/ECF SYSTEMS TERMINOLOGY: Southern District
   of California it is stored in the Court's CM/ECF database. Document
   Attachment -A file linked to an e- mail message. Northern District of
   Georgia CM/ECF was first introduced as a prototype in HTML Hyper Text
   Markup Language used to Southern District of New York the fall of 1996,
   and it has been used by other create World Wide Web pages, with
   hyperlinks Eastern District of Virginia federal district and bankruptcy
   courts since late and markup for text formatting (different heading
   1997 and early 1998. CM/ECF activity has stead- styles, bold, italic,
   numbered lists, insertion of District Courts: ily increased with more
   than 1,000 new cases and images, etc.). Western District of Missouri
   15,000 additional entries each month. PDF  Portable Document Format. An
   imaged Eastern District of New York document created by Adobe Acrobat
   The Administrative Office (AO) of US Courts has WWW  World Wide Web. A
   hypermedia- Northern District of Ohio scheduled future CM/ECF
   installations and im- based system for browsing Internet sites. Oregon
   plementations in waves. Bankruptcy courts will It is named the Web
   because it is made of begin using CM/ECF in the following waves. 1st
   many sites linked together; users can wave (Mar 01): Vermont, Delaware
   , New Jersey, travel from one site to another by clicking South
   Carolina, Iowa S., and Utah; 2nd wave (May 01): New Hampshire, Ohio N.,
   Alaska, on hyperlinks. Montana, Oregon, and Colorado; and the 3rd Web
   Server  A server on the Internet that holds World Wide Web documents
   and makes them wave: West Virginia N., Louisiana E., Wiconsin available
   for viewing by remote browsers. E., Wisconsin W., Arkansas, and South
   Dakota. Subsequent waves will be announced by the AO Web Browser  A
   program such as Netscape or Internet Explorer used to view pages on the
   at a later date. World Wide Web. Expected Benefits of CM/ECF for :
   BASIC CM/ECF RESOURCES the Clerk`s Office: Immediate docket entries The
   following Intranet sites provide additional information on CM/ECF:
   Immediate local or remote CM/ECF Home Page
   http://156.119.80.10/it/ecf/index.html access from any location
   Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) -
   http://156.119.80.10/it/ecf/ecf_faqs.html No searching or waiting for
   files TASK FORCE FORMING TO PLAN FOR CM/ECF IN No misplaced documents
   or 1ST QUARTER 2002 IMPLEMENTATION files Attorneys & the Public: No
   couriers, no post offices A DCB CM/ECF Task Force is forming Immediate
   Internet access to plan and coordinate a smooth transi- from any
   location tion from our current system to CM/ ECF. All are welcome and
   encouraged to Easy notice to other counsel participate. We will meet
   monthly, or Immediate and up-to-the- more often as needed. minute
   reports and data If you are interested in being part of the
   24-hour/7-day access and team, please let me know by January 31. filing
   Our first meeting will be held in February.
