http://sarbanes.senate.gov/pages/workmaryland.html

   Picture of Senator Sarbanes


     Home
     Biography
     What's News
     Working for Maryland
     Services
     Explore Maryland
     Resources
     Contact
     E -mail the Senator
     Visit Washington, D.C.
     Kids Page
    Sarbanes' Initiatives
     Working for Maryland
     Agriculture
     Banking
     Campaign Finance
     Children & Families
     Civil Rights
     Crime & Safety
     Economy
     Education
     Environment
     Federal Employees
     Health
     Housing
     Older Americans
     Statements
     Transportation
     Veterans
    Search This Site

                              _______   Search

   Match any ( ) or

   (*) all keywords


































































































































































































































































































































































   Working for Maryland
    1. Introduction
    2. Strengthening Our Economy
    3. Increasing International Trade
    4. Bringing New Investment and Jobs Into Maryland
    5. Educating and Training a Workforce for the 21st Century
    6. Improving Our Transportation Infrastructure
    7. Promoting Tourism
    8. Making Maryland a Center for High Technology
    9. Protecting and Attracting Civilian and Military Institutions
   10. Safeguarding the Environment
   11. Fighting Crime and Meeting Community Needs

                                Introduction

              Since I was first elected to public office, I have worked
   very hard to promote the interests of our State and its citizens with
   the Federal government.  I have helped secure legislation and funding
   to enhance our State's economy and provide jobs; clean up our
   environment; and improve our roads, airports and transit systems;
   expand assistance for housing, public safety and education; and meet
   other important public needs.  Set forth below is a summary of these
   efforts:

   STRENGTHENING OUR ECONOMY

               Maryland's economic strengths and future prosperity lie
   with its workers and managers of businesses, our State's transportation
   network and international trade and tourism, and its dynamic high-tech
   research institutions and corporations.  I have worked closely with
   State, local and Federal agencies on a number of initiatives to foster
   these strengths and prepare Maryland's economy for the 21st century.

   INCREASING INTERNATIONAL TRADE

    Maryland's international business activities are one of the fastest
   growing sectors of our economy, accounting for nearly $6 billion in
   sales and supporting 110,000 jobs.  As a senior member of the Senate
   Banking Committee, which has jurisdiction over U.S. international trade
   and financing programs, I have fought to help Maryland's businesses
   compete in growing international markets.  I now chair the Banking,
   Housing and Urban Affairs Committee as a result of the transition of
   power in the United States Senate on June 6, 2001.  As Chairman, I am
   continuing my efforsts in this critical area.


     Authored the Export Enhancement Law, making it easier for local
   exporters to do business and sell their products overseas.

    Established the first "ONE-STOP SHOP" in the nation, in Baltimore, to
   help businesses cut through the confusing array of programs,
   requirements and financing to expand exports.

    Secured Appalachian Regional Commission (ARC) funding to establish an
   International Trade Center in Western Maryland.

    Sponsored several Agricultural Export Seminars to promote the State's
   agribusiness sector, Maryland's largest industry, as well as other
   sectors of our economy - biotechnology, high technology and information
   technology.

    Worked to win approval of Maryland's selection by the Export-Import
   Bank as one of only five states in the nation to participate in a pilot
   working capital co-guarantee program, authorizing the state to
   co-guarantee 90% of commercial loans to Maryland exporters without the
   Ex-Im Bank's consent.
   BRINGING NEW INVESTMENT AND JOBS INTO MARYLAND

    Sponsored the First Annual Western Maryland "Mega Success" Conference
   bringing federal and  state procurement officials together with local
   businesses to expand the opportunities for investment and exports in
   the region.

    Went to Bethlehem, Pennsylvania to meet with senior officials of
   Bethlehem Steel Corporation and successfully persuaded them to
   construct the new $300 million cold rolled mill at Sparrows Point.

    Led Congressional efforts to bring the Air Force's
   Air Mobility Command (AMC) which operates scheduled international
   charter flights for all military personnel, dependents and contractors
   to BWI, with an economic impact estimated at $50 - $100 million
   annually for Maryland.


   Worked to win Federal grants to expand and improve access to industrial
   parks throughout Maryland including: Southern Garrett County Industrial
   Park creating an estimated 350 new jobs; Newgate Industrial Park in
   Washington County providing for 90 jobs and $29 million in investment;
   the historic American Can Company building in Baltimore -- the new
   headquarters of DAP, creating up to 120 jobs; the Riverside Industrial
   Park in Allegany County, home to Biederlack of America, bringing
   private investment of $4.3 million and creating up to 50 jobs; Central
   Garrett Industrial Park in Garrett County, Taneytown Industrial Park in
   Carroll County and the Princess Anne Industrial Park in Somerset
   County.

    Led effort to initiate a Maryland seafood marketing program to help
   Eastern Shore seafood and tourism industries impacted by the outbreak
   of Pfiesteria.

    Spearheaded the passage of the Credit Union Membership Access Act,
   protecting the  soundness of the credit union system in the Maryland
   and the nation and worked to provide regulatory relief for commercial
   lending institutions.

    Obtained funding for the Garrett County Micro Business Partnership to
   help capitalize a micro enterprise revolving loan fund.

    Secured federal funding to construct an advanced horticultural
   facility on Maryland's lower Eastern Shore as part of an integrated
   network for growing long stem roses, estimated to create up to 600 new
   jobs and a new industry.

        Worked to assist businesses, large and small, in winning Federal
   contracts or addressing problems with federal agencies, including AAI
   Corp., ARINC, Ellicott Dredge, Cumberland Pasta, Westvaco, COMSAT,
   Lockheed Martin, UNC, PHH, Blue Cross & Blue Shield, and
   Northrop-Grumman.

       Worked to win $1 million EDA grant to promote economic
   diversification and business growth in Dorchester, Somerset, Wicomico
   and Worcester Counties.

    Won federal funding to revitalize and attract new businesses to
   municipalities throughout Maryland, including Frostburg, Hancock,
   Silver Spring, Baltimore, Federalsburg, Aberdeen, and those along the
   Route 1 Corridor in Prince George's County.

   EDUCATING AND TRAINING A WORKFORCE FOR THE 21ST CENTURY

    Maryland workers are among the most highly skilled and best-trained in
   the nation, but the State needs to continue developing the basic
   technical skills and advanced science education to remain competitive
   and provide increased opportunities for its people.  My efforts, in
   this regard, have included:

    Authored legislation to establish technology training partnerships and
   provide our nation's workforce with the information technology and
   computer skills needed to compete in the rapidly changing global, high
   technology marketplace.

    Worked to establish or expand programs at higher educational
   institutions throughout Maryland including the Aviation Science Program
   at UMES, National Center for Transportation Management at Morgan State,
   Institute for Natural Resources at UM College Park, advanced
   biotechnology and graphic design labs at Frostburg State, nursing
   program at Salisbury State and the Space Telescope Science Institute at
   JHU.

     Won grant for Project LEAP, a Maryland State Department/ Metropolitan
   Baltimore AFL-CIO partnership, to upgrade the reading, writing and math
   skills of working adults.

    Obtained funding to establish one-stop career centers throughout
   Maryland to provide the full array of employment-related services and
   offering employers and job-seekers alike easy access to information
   ranging from job training and education programs to job recruitment and
   placement services.

   IMPROVING OUR TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE

    BWI Airport, the Port of Baltimore, Maryland highways and our rail and
   transit systems provide tens of thousands of jobs in Maryland and
   generate billions of dollars in economic activity.  They also help
   reduce congestion and provide efficient transportation for our people
   and employers alike.  I have lead efforts to enact Federal legislation
   and ensure Maryland receives a fair share of funding to maintain and
   upgrade this transportation network:

    Secured Federal highway funds to build, complete, upgrade or renovate
   roadways throughout Maryland, including the National Freeway (I-68),
   the Baltimore-Washington and Suitland Parkways, the Northwest and Jones
   Falls Expressways, I-70 in Frederick, Route 50, I-97, MD Route 32, U.S.
   220 and U.S. 113.

    Led efforts to bring new business and infrastructure improvements to
   BWI Airport, including the $130 million international terminal and the
   extensions of Pier C.  Also obtained funding for major renovations and
   upgrading of Greater Cumberland, Washington County, Frederick, Carroll
   County, Salisbury-Wicomico-Ocean City, and Easton Airports, among
   others.

    Fought to protect the interests of Maryland's freight shippers in the
   Conrail Merger, including
   preserving competitive service by two Class I railroads, continuation
   of existing services and rates, protecting railroad related employment
   and ensuring that Maryland's coal industry was not placed at a
   competitive disadvantage.

    Wrote the law requiring completion of the full 103 mile Metrorail
   system including the Green Line in Prince George's County and the Red
   Line in Montgomery County.

    Led efforts to authorize and fund the Poplar Island Beneficial Use of
   Dredged Material Project, as well as improvements to Baltimore
   Anchorages, the Brewerton and Tolchester channels, the C&D Canal and
   other shipping channels leading to the Port.

    Authored provisions in ISTEA and TEA-21 authorizing millions of
   dollars  to upgrade the MARC commuter rail system and extend service to
   Frederick, to double track the Baltimore Central Light Rail System and
   to expand the Washington Metrorail to Largo.  Also, secured federal
   funding and approvals for the Baltimore Subway and local bus services.

   PROMOTING TOURISM

               Tourism accounts for over $10 billion in economic activity
   in Maryland and supports more than 100,000 jobs.  My efforts to promote
   tourism in Maryland have included:


   Authored Chesapeake Bay Gateways and Watertrails Act, now public law,
   to expand recreational opportunities and promote tourism on Bay.

    Championed the effort to win the designation of the Potomac River as
   an "American Heritage River."

    Authored legislation, now public law, which takes the first steps in
   creating the Star-Spangled Banner National Historic Trail,
   commemorating the Chesapeake Campaign of the War of 1812.

    Won designation of the Beach-to-Bay Indian Trail on the lower Eastern
   Shore as a National Recreation Trail - the first in Maryland.

    Led efforts to re-water the C&O Canal in Cumberland and secured
   federal funding to help revitalize the downtown area as part of the
   Canal Place Project.

    Helped foster the development of regional heritage area partnerships
   in the Lower and Upper Eastern Shore, in Southern Maryland, in the
   Anacostia Watershed in Prince George's County, and on the lower
   Susquehanna, and secured federal funding to support heritage tourism
   promotion efforts including a new pedestrian-bike bridge connecting
   Havre de Grace and Perryville, signage, riverwalks, outdoor kiosks and
   interpretive exhibits.

     Obtained funding for the Federal hurricane protection project at
   Ocean City, protecting the $3 billion investment in the area and
   providing an expanded beach and dune line at Maryland's premier resort
   community.

    Fought to protect and enhance premier Maryland tourist attractions,
   including the U.S.F. Constellation, Antietam National Battlefield,
   Assateague Island National Seashore, Fort McHenry, Fort Washington,
   Fort Foote, Hampton and Thomas Stone Mansions, the Baltimore Aquarium &
   C&O Canal.

    Blocked plans to substantially increase entrance fees at Blackwater
   National Wildlife Refuge and won funding to build a new visitors center
   at Patuxent Wildlife Research Center, Smith Island and Otter Point
   Creek in Harford County.

   MAKING MARYLAND A CENTER FOR HIGH TECHNOLOGY AND THE LIFE SCIENCES

               The Federal and university-affiliated  research
   laboratories in Maryland are the heart of our State's competitive
   advantage in research, technology and development.  They serve as
   magnets for additional investment by the private sector and provide
   hundreds of thousands of jobs.  I have fought to keep these facilities
   on the cutting edge of science and technology so that they can continue
   to be economic engines driving, Maryland's high technology commercial
   activity:


     Worked to speed transfer of technology from Government to industry
   and help Maryland industries dependent on defense transition to
   commercial and non-defense production.

    Won funding to modernize the labs of the National Institutes of
   Standards and Technology in Gaithersburg, the Food and Drug
   Administration in Montgomery and Prince George's County, the Beltsville
   Agricultural Research Center, EPA's Central Regional Lab in Anne
   Arundel County, and the Oxford Marine Fisheries Lab in Talbot County.

    Led efforts to win designation of Aberdeen Proving Ground and the
   Adelphi Army Research Center as the Army's flagship research
   laboratory.

    Secured funding to help locate a bio-pharmaceutical manufacturing
   facility at the Johns Hopkins University Bayview Research Campus.

    Persuaded NASA to locate the renowned Space Telescope Institute at the
   Johns Hopkins University.

   PROTECTING AND ATTRACTING NEW CIVILIAN AND MILITARY INSTITUTIONS

    Federal government installations, military and civilian, play a vital
   role in the economy of Maryland, from local Social Security offices to
   the giant National Institutes of Health complex.  These facilities
   account for over 300,000 jobs for Marylanders and millions of dollars
   in contracts or businesses.  My work to keep and expand Federal jobs,
   facilities and contracts includes:

    Helped bring new contracts for construction projects and services for
   local businesses at Federal  facilities throughout Maryland.

    Led efforts to bring new Federal institutions to Maryland including
   the $173 million Walter Reed Army Institute of Research at Forest Glen,
   the consolidated headquarters of NOAA in Silver Spring, IRS
   headquarters in New Carrollton, the Baltimore Veterans Hospital, the
   headquarters of the Naval Air Systems Command to Patuxent River, and
   the new Federal prison in Allegany County.

    Argued before the Base Closure Commission to keep important military
   installations open in Maryland, protecting thousands of jobs and
   business contracts in surrounding communities.

    Worked to ensure the effective re-use of those military installations
   which were closed including leading the effort to convert the Naval
   Surface Warfare Center at White Oak into a federal research campus to
   house the Food and Drug Administration, to bring the  International
   Masonry Institute at Ft. Ritchie, ensuring continued operation of the
   Naval Surface Warfare Center in Annapolis by a private contractor.
   Also worked with the EPA and U.S. Navy to ensure the completion of the
   clean-up the former Bainbridge Naval Training Center so that it may be
   used for future development.

   SAFEGUARDING THE ENVIRONMENT

               Protecting our environment, parks and natural resources
   have been among my highest priorities.  I have led the effort to
   protect and enhance the Chesapeake Bay, one of our nation's most
   treasured natural resources.  I have worked closely with local
   officials and community groups to insure the success of these
   initiatives.

    Authored laws to protect and enhance the Chesapeake Bay, including the
   Chesapeake Bay Environmental Restoration Act which further assists the
   activities of the Chesapeake Bay Program and helps local communities
   with watershed restoration and protection projects in the Bay and its
   tributaries.

    Authored the Chesapeake Bay Gateways and Watertrails Act, now public
   law,  which will establish a series of watertrails and gateway sites
   and link the natural, cultural and recreational resources into a
   unified network.

    Led efforts in Congress that made the National Park Service an
   official partner in the Chesapeake Bay restoration effort; expanded
   involvement of the U.S. Department of Agriculture; established NOAA's
   Chesapeake Bay Estuarine Resources Office in Annapolis.

    Established the Chesapeake Bay Small Watershed Grants Program which
   has provided grants designed to help local groups preserve and restore
   stream corridors.

    Led the efforts to secure federal assistance to combat the pfiesteria
   outbreaks, including authoring the "Toxic Microorganism Abatement Pilot
   Project Act" and securing over $10 million in FY99 to address this
   situation.

    Helped secure the institution of the Maryland Conservation Reserve
   Enhancement Program (CREP) designed to help farmers reduce agricultural
   run-off into Maryland's waterways.

    Led efforts to protect the coastal bays in Maryland by winning
   designation as part of the National Estuary Program.

    Helped win transfer of 8,100 acres from Fort Meade to the Patuxent
   Wildlife Research Center in Anne Arundel County, protecting the land
   from development.

    Secured funding for Revitalizing Baltimore, a public/private
   partnership working to restore Baltimore's urban forests and improve
   management of the city's natural resources while providing training for
   inner city youth and creating job opportunities in environmental
   professions.

    Appropriated over $1.5 million to continue the Army Corps of
   Engineer's Chesapeake Bay Oyster Recovery Project and funding to
   continue the NOAA's comprehensive research program on oyster diseases
   plaguing the Bay's oyster stocks.

   FIGHTING CRIME AND MEETING COMMUNITY NEEDS

              As the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing
   and Urban Affairs, I am keenly aware of the problems faced by both
   large and small communities in Maryland, and have been working to help
   solve these problems with legislation and grants local governments and
   organizations for public safety, health care, public utilities and
   other needs.

    Fought for the passage of the Crime Bill which has put more than 2,267
   new police officers into communities throughout Maryland.

    Secured designation of the Baltimore-Washington Metropolitan Area as a
   high intensity drug trafficking area to coordinate regional efforts in
   combating drugs and drug abuse.

    Persuaded the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) to open offices in
   Hagerstown and Salisbury to fight drug trafficking in Western Maryland
   and the Eastern Shore.

    Helped bring a Federal task force to Baltimore that targets narcotics
   traffickers who use firearms to further their criminal endeavors.

    Led the efforts to establish the National Fire Academy in Emmitsburg
   which has helped train firefighters from across Maryland and the
   nation.

    Fought to preserve the Community Development Block Grant Program which
   has brought millions of dollars in grants to communities throughout
   Maryland for water and sewer system improvements, housing
   rehabilitation and economic redevelopment.  This funding has supported
   such projects as: the construction of 60 units at Overlook North in
   Garrett County, water systems improvements in Brunswick, Aberdeen, Bel
   Air and Havre de Grace, and streetscaping in the South Silver Spring
   Business District.

    Worked with the United States Postal Service to address the needs and
   concerns of citizens throughout the State.

    Helped secure the establishment of a new veterans outpatient clinic at
   the Charlotte Hall State Veteran's Home in St. Mary's County, saving
   the 27,000 veterans living in the tri-county area from traveling to
   Baltimore or Washington to get VA medical care.

    Secured close to $10 million in funding for to Associated Catholic
   Charities and the Associated Jewish Community Federation of Baltimore
   for Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly - creating a total
   of 144 one-bedroom units.


                  Home| Biography| What's News| Working for
            MD| Services| Explore| Resources| Visit D.C.| Contact
