http://www.ars.usda.gov/is/AR/archive/nov01/pest1101.htm

                        Agricultural Research Service
           U.S. Department of Agriculture ARS News and Information


                                  Contents


             ...From the pages of Agricultural Research magazine


Areawide Pest Management: An Effective Strategy for Many Pests

         A decapitated fire ant: Click here for full photo caption.
                          Areawide Pest Management

    In 1994, the Agricultural Research Service launched an ongoing series
   of areawide integrated pest management (IPM) projects. Each project was
     proposed from the field and reviewed by a technical staff. Although
    each project has research, education, and assessment components, the
      focus has been to pull together existing technology and research
    results into an integrated management plan that could be demonstrated
     for, and transferred to, users. Each project is funded for up to 5
     years and then carried on by cooperators, growers, and land owners.

    So far, the projects have met or exceeded their goals. All have shown
   significant reduction in pesticide use and have garnered wide support,
   ranging from scientific colleagues to individual farmers. This article
       profiles six areawide IPM projects for fire ants, fruit flies,
    stored-grain insects, leafy spurge, corn rootworm, and codling moth.

    Additional areawide programs were funded in 2001 to tackle lygus bug,
         Russian wheat and green peach aphids, and melaleuca trees.

     Even though the individual projects are time-limited, their success
         shines through as users continue them without the official
             infrastructure initially provided by the projects.

    One of the most recent ARS-funded areawide projects, which began this
   May, is part of a long-fought campaign to control the red imported fire
                          ant, Solenopsis invicta.

      The Areawide Suppression of Fire Ant Populations in Pastures is a
    partnership among ARS, the USDA's Animal and Plant Health Inspection
    Service, the University of Florida, and Texas A&M and Oklahoma State
                                universities.

      The goal of the project is to demonstrate how to reduce fire ant
       populations to very low levels by combining strategic pesticide
     applications with two self-sustaining biocontrol agents from South
   America: the fire ant-decapitating fly, Pseudacteon tricuspis, and the
    pathogen Thelohania solenopsae. As scientists introduce these agents,
   fewer subsequent bait toxicant treatments should be needed to maintain
    fire ant control, according to Richard Brenner. He is the former head
    of ARS' Imported Fire Ant and Household Insects Research Unit at the
       Center for Medical, Agricultural, and Veterinary Entomology in
                            Gainesville, Florida.

    Diverse demonstration sites as large as 640 acres in the three states
      were chosen to represent the range of the fire ant's infestation,
   according to Brenner. ARS will direct the major activities of the three
     land-grant universities and other organizations associated with the
    project for 5 years. ARS will also add a site in Mississippi in 2002.

         The fire ant has swept onto the American landscape with an
    ever-increasing impact. It now infests more than 318 million acres in
   12 southeastern states and Puerto Rico. Recently, populations have also
              become established in California and New Mexico.

    "The project should result in reduced livestock and equipment losses
     from fire ants, increased farm worker safety, and reduced pesticide
      risk," Brenner says.—By Jim Core, Agricultural Research Service
                             Information Staff.

   This research is part of Arthropod Pests of Animals and Humans, an ARS
         National Program (#104) described on the World Wide Web at
                        http://www.nps.ars.usda.gov.

       For more information on the fire ant program, contact David F.
     Williams, USDA-ARS Imported Fire Ant and Household Insects Research
   Unit, Center for Medical, Agricultural, and Veterinary Entomology, 1600
    S.W. 23rd Dr., Gainesville, FL 32608; phone (352) 374-5982, fax (352)
                                  374-5818.

    Grower shows entomologist fruit fly damage on peach trees: Click here
                           for full photo caption.
   Forcing Exotic, Invasive Insects Into Retreat: New IPM Program Targets
                            Hawaii's Fruit Flies

   In Hawaii's warm, mild climate, exotic tropical fruits and vegetables,
         as well as more familiar fare, flourish nearly year-round.
    Unfortunately, so does a quartet of subtropical fruit fly pests—the
   Oriental fruit fly, melon fly, Mediterranean fruit fly, and solanaceous
                           (Malaysian) fruit fly.

   These invasive insects, none native to the Hawaiian Islands, can easily
     turn what should be a fresh, luscious taste treat into a disgusting
   mess. That's what happens soon after the female fruit fly punctures the
    skin of a nicely ripening fruit or vegetable and pumps her eggs into
      it. The tiny, wriggling maggots that later hatch spoil what would
                       otherwise be a delectable crop.

     ARS researchers are targeting these troublesome flies in one of the
    agency's newest and most complex areawide integrated pest management
   (IPM) programs. The goal: to give Hawaii's growers the latest and best
      science-based, environmentally sound strategies for reducing crop
     losses and the need for organophosphate and carbamate insecticides.

     Areawide site coordinator services bait traps: Click here for full
                               photo caption.
                           Gearing Up Grid by Grid

    "Our intent," says ARS entomologist Eric B. Jang, "is to help farmers
      keep the flies under control in carefully delineated suppression
      grids." These grids might include not only participating growers'
      fields and orchards, but also nearby vegetation where significant
       numbers of exotic flies live and breed. Groves of wild guava in
       pastures that are within a few miles of a melon field or nearby
    backyard plantings of pumpkin or zucchini, for example, might need to
    be included within a grid. If not, the insects could use the grove or
       garden as a safe haven and as the base for their attack on the
                             neighboring fields.

    Jang leads the ARS Areawide Pest Management Program on Fruit Flies in
     Hawaii. He is based at the agency's U.S. Pacific Basin Agricultural
                          Research Center in Hilo.

       "The program involves a combination of tactics we think will be
     practical, affordable, and workable, not just one method for going
    after flies in these suppression grids," Jang says. The grid approach
      is "very different from attempting to obliterate the fruit flies
             everywhere they live in the Hawaiian Islands chain.

    "Our program is unlike many of the other areawide IPMs," notes Jang.
   "We're targeting four key pests, not just one. We have dozens of crops
      at risk from these flies: papaya, mango, melon, squash, cucumber,
    tomato, pepper, and eggplant, not just a single commodity like corn."

         A fruit fly parasitoid: Click here for full photo caption.
               Partnering with State and University Scientists

    Interest in the program is growing among farmers in the Aloha State,
   including some who were initially reluctant to join the project. Today,
            plans call for using at least four different control
     tactics—sanitation, male annihilation, bait sprays, and biological
    controls—at demonstration sites on the islands of Hawaii, Maui, and
                                    Oahu.

    The program is a joint venture of ARS, the University of Hawaii, and
        the State of Hawaii Department of Agriculture. Scientists and
       specialists from these institutions are dividing up the work of
   developing and demonstrating technologies for suppressing the voracious
        fruit flies. Other partners include grower organizations and
                          agricultural businesses.

   Thorough and unrelenting sanitation that removes as much infested fruit
   as possible is basic for every orchard and field. These culls may, for
   example, get tossed into bins, barrels, plastic bags, or pits. Another
       tactic some local growers use—drowning ruined fruit—is being
                                scrutinized.

     A procedure aptly named "male annihilation" is a proven success at
     zapping fruit fly males. That causes populations to collapse. Male
   annihilation relies on traps that contain an irresistible lure to bring
    the flies to it and a second compound that kills them once they touch
    or eat it. ARS scientists at the Hawaii laboratory have played a key
     role in developing powerful lures that entice Oriental fruit flies,
            melon flies, or medflies to visit these deadly traps.

               A melon fly: Click here for full photo caption.
                     Bait Sprays and Biological Controls

     Protein-bait sprays applied from the ground provide another way to
     blast the flies. Key to these sprays is protein derived from corn,
   wheat, or other sources, which the flies find too good to resist. When
    mixed with a compound that kills the flies, such as spinosad, growers
   have an effective and environmentally safe weapon in their toolkit. In
     outdoor tests, conducted over the past several years in Hawaii, ARS
   research entomologist Roger I. Vargas and colleagues have provided some
    of the best available information about the effectiveness of spinosad
                        against tropical fruit flies.

      A biological control tactic known as the sterile-insect technique
   offers yet another way to outwit the flies. It requires releasing flies
      that have been sexually sterilized in the laboratory. When these
     sterile males mate with wild, fertile females, no fertile offspring
                     result, so the population dies out.

    Student intern examines papaya for larvae: Click here for full photo
                                  caption.
   Key to this technology is the ability to continuously rear populations
   of healthy flies that can outcompete wild, fertile males in winning the
     attention of the females. In past decades, ARS scientists in Hawaii
    have developed, tested, and fine-tuned all the steps needed to raise
       laboratory colonies of the invasive fruit flies—a must for the
                          sterile-insect technique.

    The researchers have also refined the process of rearing masses of a
   hard-working biological control agent named Fopius arisanus. This tiny
     wasp is harmless to humans. Female wasps parasitize fruit flies by
     inserting their eggs into fruit fly eggs. Puncturing the eggs kills
    some fruit fly young outright. Others die when parasite young develop
                                inside them.

                       New Findings Wait in the Wings

   New discoveries by ARS scientists should streamline use of the sterile
      males and busy wasps. Geneticist Donald O. McInnis, based at the
    center's Honolulu laboratory, has bred a line of melon flies that can
   be mechanically sorted according to their sex while they are pupae--the
      last stage before they become adults. In the wild, both males and
     females normally have a brown pupal case, a cocoonlike covering. In
     McInnis' line, in contrast, only males have this brown casing. The
     females have a telltale white pupal case. High-speed color-sorting
      machines are used to segregate the genders, according to McInnis.

             Fruit fly larvae in papaya: Click here for caption.
    White-encased females are thrown away, while the males are put aside
    for the outdoor work. Simple, fast, and reliable, this color-sorting
     strategy saves some of the time and expense that would otherwise be
     invested in unneeded females. Though similar breeding work has been
    done elsewhere to produce color-sorted strains of other fruit flies,
                 McInnis' work is a first for the melon fly.

   Also in the wings is a new and more efficient way to raise the tiny F.
    arisanus wasp indoors. Entomologists Renato C. Bautista and Ernest J.
      Harris developed a new breeding cage that streamlines the rearing
   procedure, offers savings in labor, and enables laboratory managers to
     produce a steady supply of the hard-working wasps for lab and field
      tests. What's more, the scientists are testing the same cage for
      possible use as an outdoor delivery system for another beneficial
   insect, Psyttalia fletcheri. This diminutive wasp is a powerful natural
      enemy of the melon fly. The delivery system could, Bautista says,
      provide researchers and growers with a quicker and easier way to
   distribute the wasps throughout their fields and orchards. Bautista and
     Harris plan to seek a patent for their invention.—By Marcia Wood,
              Agricultural Research Service Information Staff.

       This research is part of Crop Protection and Quarantine, an ARS
          National Program (#304) described on the World Web Web at
                        http://www.nps.ars.usda.gov.

   To reach the scientists mentioned in this article, contact Marcia Wood,
   ARS Information Staff, 5601 Sunnyside Ave., Beltsville, MD 20705; phone
                     (301) 504-1617, fax (301) 504-1641.

    Entomologist looks at the Stored Grain Advisor program on a computer
                 monitor: Click here for full photo caption.

      Spreading Good Management Practices Among Grain Elevator Managers

   Remember that old saying about how important it is to make new friends
   but keep the old, for one is silver and the other gold? That's how ARS
   researchers in Manhattan, Kansas, feel about the relationships they've
   built with grain elevator managers during a 4-year areawide integrated
      pest management (IPM) project, which began in 1997, in Kansas and
                                  Oklahoma.

   "We've recently added some new elevator managers into the network while
     still keeping relationships with managers who were involved in the
    study from the beginning," says ARS entomologist Paul W. Flinn at the
   Grain Marketing and Production Research Center in Manhattan. Flinn and
   retired ARS entomologist David W. Hagstrum, along with researchers from
      Kansas State and Oklahoma State Universities, worked as a team to
      develop relationships with grain elevator managers, who provided
                   important feedback during the project.

   "In the last phase of our work, we found that sampling for insects with
       a vacuum probe in the top 40 feet of grain helped detect insect
     infestations and saved time and labor," says Flinn. He also put the
    finishing touches on a risk analysis database, designed to determine
    whether treatment is needed. The database and the vacuum probe should
   help managers save time and money by avoiding unnecessary fumigation in
      silos, says Flinn. Another plus: the risk analysis database helps
   managers determine the condition of carryover grain in silos before the
                                new harvest.

       The database analyzes insect density, grain moisture, and grain
      temperature for all the silos at an elevator. The information is
   provided to the manager in the form of a silo diagram: Silos in red are
    at risk and should be fumigated, while silos represented in green are
    safe. The software uses a computer model to forecast insect densities
                      in the silos for up to 3 months.

   That feature reduces the need for frequent sampling, keeping costs low.
    The program generates a one-page summary of information and specific
    recommendations, which may include cooling the grain to reduce insect
             densities or, if needed, selling the grain sooner.

     "After we talk to the managers about their options, we return in 60
              days to evaluate what they've done," says Flinn.

    Fumigation of an entire elevator that stores 700,000 bushels of wheat
     could cost about $14,000. But, if only three bins have high insect
     densities, the cost of fumigation for those three bins may be only
                    $1,400. That's a savings of $12,600.

   A cost-effective alternative to fumigation is to cool wheat soon after
   it's placed into storage in late June or early July by using fans that
     turn on when outside air temperatures are 10 degrees less than the
                             grain temperature.

        By providing alternative strategies for pest management, this
   research—and the support of ARS, Kansas State University, and Oklahoma
   State University scientists—has resulted in less reliance on phosphine,
     a widely used pesticide for insects in raw grain.—By Linda McGraw,
              Agricultural Research Service Information Staff.

       This research is part of Crop Protection and Quarantine, an ARS
         National Program (#304) described on the World Wide Web at
                        http://www.nps.ars.usda.gov.

       Paul W. Flinn is at the USDA-ARS Grain Marketing and Production
        Research Center, Biological Research Unit, 1515 College Ave.,
       Manhattan, KS 66502; phone (785) 776-2707, fax (785) 537-5584.

                    Leafy spurge: Click here for caption.
        TEAM Leafy Spurge Links Technology and People To Manage Weed

   Cows and horses won't eat it, native grasses can't compete with it, and
    landowners across at least 36 states and Canadian provinces have lost
                 land to it: the noxious weed leafy spurge.

      Leafy spurge first appeared in the United States in 1827 and has
      doubled its coverage every decade for a century. To help stem its
    spread, ARS established The Ecological Areawide Management (TEAM) of
                            Leafy Spurge in 1997.

     "The goals of this program were to increase public awareness of the
    weed and pull together research results in a way that helped ranchers
    and land managers choose the best options for their situation," says
    ARS ecologist and TEAM Leafy Spurge program manager Chad W. Prosser.

     TEAM Leafy Spurge, which officially ended this year, was ARS' first
     areawide program to address a weed. Co-managed by USDA's Animal and
   Plant Health Inspection Service, the program brought together a diverse
       collection of cooperators, including numerous federal agencies,
   land-grant universities, state departments of agriculture, cooperative
   extension services, and ranchers and landowners from across the region.

     "‘TEAM’ is more than a cute acronym," says ARS ecologist Gerry L.
    Anderson, co-principal investigator of the program. "Our key role and
    greatest accomplishment has been establishing partnerships that will
   last well beyond the length of the official program." Both Prosser and
   Anderson work at ARS' Northern Plains Agricultural Research Laboratory
                             in Sidney, Montana.

   To accomplish their goals, TEAM set up a demonstration area covering 4
     states along the 300-mile Little Missouri drainage basin. The study
    sites included a wide range of habitats, from open plains to crucial
   riparian areas, so that management strategies could be demonstrated in
              the kinds of real-life situations ranchers face.

     At nine field events, scientists demonstrated the effectiveness of
    various combinations of biological control agents, sheep grazing, and
   herbicide applications. Landowners lined up by the hundreds to collect
               millions of flea beetles that feed on the weed.

     "We distributed more than 47 million beetles for biological control
     during the program," says Anderson. TEAM Leafy Spurge also produced
   several informational products, including a biocontrol manual that has
    been distributed to more than 33,000 users in 16 states and Canadian
   provinces, an updated version of the award-winning Purge Spurge CD-ROM
      database, and a biocontrol CD. More products are being developed.

      On the scientific front, TEAM Leafy Spurge scientists showed the
    efficacy of biological control and clarified the ecological needs of
    existing control agents, and they continue to test additional agents
                             for future release.

   They also pioneered remote sensing as a viable tool for monitoring the
      existence and spread of a rangeland weed. Specific sites covering
    several hundred acres illustrated combinations of biological control,
      multispecies grazing, and herbicide application to keep spurge at
                       economically manageable levels.

      "All the pieces of the puzzle are coming together," says Prosser.
    "There's no doubt in my mind that spurge will be an incidental plant
   when integrated management plans are carried out over large areas using
        these tools."—By Kathryn Barry Stelljes, formerly with ARS.

   This project is part of Crop Protection and Quarantine, an ARS National
              Program (#304) described on the World Wide Web at
                        http://www.nps.ars.usda.gov.

    Chad W. Prosser and Gerry L. Anderson are with the USDA-ARS Northern
     Plains Agricultural Research Laboratory, P.O. Box 1109, Sidney, MT
              59270; phone (406) 433-2020, fax (406) 433-5038.

   Two entomologists check a corn ear for rootworm damage: Click here for
                             full photo caption.

        Bait-and-Kill Strategy Can Slash Insecticide Use in Corn Belt

    Field tests in the Corn Belt have proven that "aerial spraying with a
     bait slurry can drastically reduce the amount of insecticide active
        ingredient used," says ARS entomologist Laurence D. Chandler.

     Chandler is describing a successful conclusion to the corn rootworm
    areawide integrated pest management (IPM) project. "It's in its last
    year, and next year we will complete the handover to IPM consultants
   who will help farmers adopt practices we developed in conjunction with
   university scientists," Chandler says. He's at the ARS Red River Valley
             Agricultural Research Center, Fargo, North Dakota.

    Chandler says the bait testing began with the 1997 corn crop and was
     part of one of the first areawide projects to target pests of a row
           crop. Chandler is program coordinator for the project.

   "During the program, we tested two new, low-insecticide baits that use
   either a watermelon juice ingredient or wild buffalo gourd root powder
    because both contain cucurbitacins that act as feeding stimulants to
       adult rootworm beetles. We also evaluated a trap that uses corn
    rootworm attractants derived from plant-produced chemicals," Chandler
                                    says.

    "All these products came from technology that ARS helped develop and
   became commercially available during the areawide program. The product
     evaluations were done at four 16-square-mile sites across the Corn
     Belt—at the Indiana-Illinois border and in Iowa, Kansas, and South
                Dakota—and at smaller study sites in Texas."

     The baits use doses of insecticide at rates of an ounce or less per
     acre—95 to 98 percent less active ingredient than in conventional
   sprays. They are sprayed aerially on corn leaves where the beetles eat.
       The bait lands on leaves and forms individual drops containing
    cucurbitacins and insecticide. The cucurbitacins cause the beetles to
        feed preferentially on the drops and ingest a lethal dose of
                                insecticide.

    "If used throughout the Corn Belt, the bait sprays could reduce total
               pesticide use on corn by half," Chandler says.

    Corn rootworms are the target of almost half the insecticides used in
    row crops in this country, requiring more insecticide than any other
   pest. "About 25 million acres of corn are treated each year," Chandler
    says. "In some years, rootworms can cost farmers up to $1 billion in
                     crop losses and spraying expenses."

    The baits are sprayed only when IPM scouts or farmers find an average
     of one female beetle per plant or when populations in various traps
    exceed a certain threshold. That is the level at which they can begin
    to cause significant economic harm to a farmer, enough to justify the
                            expense of spraying.

  Chandler explains that it is the beetle's offspring—the larvae—that eat
     corn roots. But the larvae are harder to count than beetles because
                            they are underground.

      "Under standard methods, corn farmers apply soil insecticide as a
   preventive measure, even though it's only needed less than half of the
   time. By targeting the beetle parents, we attempt to keep larvae levels
                low for the next corn season," Chandler says.

     The baits do not pose any risk to bees or other beneficial insects,
     such as ladybugs. And the bitter cucurbitacin doesn't appeal to any
       other insects, Chandler says. "The musky smell released when a
   cantaloupe is cut open comes primarily from cucurbitacin, which is also
    found in cucumbers and squash."—By Don Comis, Agricultural Research
                         Service Information Staff.

     This research is part of Crop Protection and Quarantine (#304) and
      Integrated Agricultural Systems (#207), two ARS National Programs
       described on the World Wide Web at http://www.nps.ars.usda.gov.

    Laurence D. Chandler is at the USDA-ARS Red River Valley Agricultural
   Research Center, 1307 N. 18th Street, Fargo, ND 58105-5677; phone (701)
                        239-1371, fax (701) 239-1395.

     Entomologist examines apple for codling moth damage: Click here for
                             full photo caption.

                          No Coddling for This Moth

    When ARS began the Codling Moth Areawide Suppression Program in 1994,
      many apple and pear growers were skeptical. The aim was to reduce
     pesticide usage on orchards in Washington, Oregon, and California,
      using mating disruption, biological control, and other techniques
                    developed over the previous 30 years.

      "This program brought together, for the first time, the existing
   knowledge about monitoring, mating disruption, and secondary pests and
    showed growers that they can control pests at a reasonable cost while
      reducing pesticide use," says ARS entomologist Carrol O. Calkins.

       Without control, codling moths could destroy 80 percent of the
      Northwest's apple crop and half the pear crop. More than half the
              nation's commercial apples come from Washington.

    Normally, growers sprayed up to six times per year for codling moths
   and four to six more times for leafrollers, aphids, and other secondary
       pests. This meant using about 2 million pounds of insecticides
    annually. The Food Quality Protection Act restricts use on apples and
      pears of organophosphate pesticides, which are the most effective
                      pesticides against codling moths.

    Key to the project was grower participation. The team started with 5
    sites and 68 participants encompassing about 3,000 acres. Today, more
   than 100,000 acres of orchards in the three states use integrated pest
   management—and new growers join every year. Growers have reduced their
                        pesticide use by 80 percent.

       Calkins leads research at the ARS Yakima Agricultural Research
   Laboratory, Wapato, Washington, and oversaw the program until it ended
       in 1999. A second, university-led phase with ARS participation
    continues to expand the project and add new techniques to the control
                                 repertoire.

     Success so far has relied on disrupting mating with pheromones and
   releasing sterile male moths. The goal of both techniques is to reduce
      the ability of codling moths to mate and produce offspring. This
            reduces the population in each succeeding generation.

   Reducing pesticides has also led to new information on secondary pests.

      "At first, populations of leafrollers and aphids increased," says
    Calkins. "But without sprays, their natural enemies soon kept many of
   them in check." Research at the Wapato laboratory was the first to show
      that spiders play an important role as predators of fruit pests.

    "The biggest problem now is stinkbugs," says Calkins. "Although a sex
    pheromone for one of these species has been identified, stinkbugs are
   active during the day. They use several cues, including visual cues, to
        find a mate, so trapping with a sex pheromone alone is seldom
                            effective," he says.

   New research may give growers more tools to control the moths and other
     pests: lures for female codling moths; moth parasitoids; additional
     predators for leafrollers, aphids, and leaf miners; and genetically
   engineered codling moths that lay eggs that die when temperatures fall
        below 65 °F.—By Kathryn Barry Stelljes, formerly with ARS.

       This research is part of Crop Protection and Quarantine, an ARS
         National Program (#304) described on the World Wide Web at
                        http://www.nps.ars.usda.gov.

     Carrol O. Calkins is with the USDA-ARS Yakima Agricultural Research
      Laboratory, 5230 Konnowac Pass Rd., Wapato, WA 98951; phone (509)
                        454-6565, fax (509) 454-5646.

    "Areawide Pest Management: An Effective Strategy for Many Pests" was
   published in the November 2001 issue of Agricultural Research magazine.

                    Top | Editorial staff | Subscriptions

                                 Bottom menu

          Home | News| Pubs | Magazine | Photos | Sci4Kids | Search
              About ARS Info | Site map | Policies | E-mail us
