http://www.lao.ca.gov/2001/budget_options/1201_budget_options.html

   [lao_60_logo_only.gif]

   December 19, 2001

                     Addressing the State's Fiscal Problem

   Due to weak economic and revenue performance, California faces a $12.4
   billion budget shortfall in 2002-03. This report identifies several key
   budget-balancing principles to assist the Legislature in addressing the
   shortfall, including the importance of taking actions in the current
   year and considering a wide range of budget solutions. It then
   discusses basic budget-balancing strategies and specific spending and
   revenue options for implementing them. Finally, the administration's
   initial proposals to address the current-year shortfall are reviewed
   and we offer additional current-year options for the Legislature to
   consider.

Background on the Budget Problem

    Economic Slowdown Depressing Revenues

   Due to rising unemployment, mounting job losses, slowing personal
   income growth, and a sharp falloff in capital gains and stock options,
   revenues are falling well short of expectations. Cash collections are
   currently $1.3 billion below the 2001-02 Budget Act forecast, and we
   estimate that combined 2000-01 and 2001-02 revenues will be
   $7.1 billion below the budget forecast. Our projected 12.1 percent
   revenue decline for the current year is a postwar record, and revenues
   are not projected to recover to last year's level until 2003-04.

    Projected Shortfall Totals $12.4 Billion

   Our November fiscal report indicated that:
     * The General Fund will conclude the current year with a deficit of
       $4.5 billion. This compares to the estimated $2.6 billion reserve
       that was included in the 2001-02 Budget Act.
     * In the budget year, an operating deficit (expenditures in excess of
       revenues) of about $8 billion will be incurred. When combined with
       this year's $4.5 billion deficit, this will leave the state with a
       cumulative year-end budget shortfall of $12.4 billion.
     * Annual excesses of expenditures over revenues will persist well
       beyond the budget year, absent corrective actions. As indicted in
       Figure 1, although these annual operating deficits are projected to
       shrink over time—from about $7.5 billion in 2003-04 down to about
       $4 billion in 2006-07—they will remain in the multibillion dollar
       range throughout the forecast period. The fact that the state's
       projected annual operating deficit does not disappear over time
       indicates that the state cannot simply "grow itself" out of its
       budget problem.

   [fig_1.gif]

    Where Did All the Money From the "Good Times" Go?

   The magnitude of the current budget problem and the speed with which it
   emerged are in striking contrast to the booming economy and good times
   that the state budget has enjoyed for a number of years. Given this, a
   natural question is: Exactly what happened to the billions of dollars
   of new revenues that the state's economic boom generated?

   Spending Has Grown Significantly. Most of the added revenues have
   funded growth in state programs. As shown in Figure 2, General Fund
   spending flattened during the early 1990s' recession and grew
   relatively modestly until mid-decade. Then, however, it increasingly
   accelerated as the decade progressed. Overall, between 1993-94 when the
   economic recovery began and 2001-02, total spending more than
   doubled—from $39 billion to $79 billion—with about one-half of this
   overall increase occurring in 1999-00 and 2000-01.

   [fig_2.gif]

   What Makes Up the Growth in Spending? Our analysis indicates that a
   number of factors have played a role in the nearly $40 billion of new
   spending. As shown in Figure 3, the sources of the overall spending
   growth can be divided into four major categories:

   [fig_3.gif]
     * Workload/Inflation. About $15 billion (39 percent) of the increase
       is due to workload (such as increased caseloads and school
       enrollments) and inflation-related costs.
     * New/Expanded Programs. About $17 billion (43 percent) is related to
       new or expanded programs, mostly in education, but also in
       resources and health-related areas.
     * Tax Relief. About $2.5 billion (6 percent) is related to the
       portion of tax relief funded through the budget and showing as an
       expenditure. This includes the General Fund backfill to local
       governments for the 67 percent reduction in vehicle license fees
       ($2.3 billion, with an additional $1.2 billion having been provided
       through a prior-year appropriation), as well as expanded senior
       citizens' tax relief and minor additional relief ($0.2 billion).
     * Local Government and Other Programs. Finally, about $4.6 billion
       (12 percent) is due to other factors. These include expanded trial
       court funding and other forms of local fiscal relief (about
       $700 million), as well as spending related to court cases, federal
       mandates, and additional funding to offset student and park fee
       reductions.

   Additional Tax Relief Also Occurred. During this period, additional tax
   relief was provided beyond the $2.5 billion in tax relief funded
   through the budget. The measures involved, which are providing tax
   relief of about $2.8 billion in 2001-02, include a bank and corporation
   tax rate reduction, increases in the personal income tax dependent
   credit, a child care credit, a manufacturers' investment credit, and
   various targeted credits for teachers and businesses.

   Program-by-Program Distribution of Spending Increases. Figure 4 shows
   how the overall $40 billion increase in state spending was allocated
   among major programs. It shows that about one-half of the total
   spending growth was in education—with K-14 Proposition 98 spending
   increasing by $17 billion and University of California/California State
   University growing another $2.7 billion. Medi-Cal increased by
   $4.1 billion, other health and social services increased by
   $3.1 billion, followed by corrections, and resources/environmental
   protection.

   [fig_4.gif]

   Causes of Spending Increases by Program Area. Figure 4 also shows that
   the mix of factors responsible for spending growth varied substantially
   among different state programs. For example, it shows that:
     * Proposition 98. About two-thirds of the increase in K-14
       Proposition 98 education is related to new or expanded program
       funding. This is consistent with the substantial increases in
       inflation-adjusted per-pupil funding that has taken place in recent
       years. It also reflects new initiatives in a wide variety of areas,
       including class size reduction, the lengthened school year, teacher
       recruitment and training, new technologies, and student testing.
     * Higher Education. In this area, added funding was provided for new
       or expanded programs in the areas of student outreach, year-round
       operations, and new campuses. Increases were also provided for
       other factors, such as compensation increases and funding to avoid
       student fee increases.
     * Health and Social Services. The majority of Medi-Cal spending
       growth was related to inflation and caseloads, while program
       expansions played only a modest role. On the other hand, growth in
       other health and social services programs was due to expanded
       programs (such as Healthy Families and mental health), increased
       service levels (for example, child welfare services), and such
       other factors as pay increases for providers (particularly in the
       In-Home Supportive Services program) or changes to federal law.
       Combined funding for the state's two major social services
       programs—California Work Opportunity and Responsibility to Kids and
       Supplemental Security Income/State Supplementary Program—declined
       modestly.
     * Other Programs. Growth in corrections spending was due to inmate
       population increases, as well as expanded funding for medical
       services, staff overtime and sick leave, and inmate drug treatment.
       Finally, the increase in resource and environmental protection
       spending reflects such factors as funding deferred state park
       maintenance, the CalFED Bay Delta program, flood control, fire
       suppression, and offsets for park fee reductions.

Addressing the Budget Problem

  Key Principles, Strategies, and Tools

   As summarized in Figure 5, effectively addressing the budget problem
   involves several key budget-balancing principles. In addition, the
   Legislature will face decisions about broad budget-balancing strategies
   and specific tools to implement those strategies.


    Figure 5

    Basic Budget-Balancing Principles, Strategies, and Tools

    Key Principles

    ü  Wide range of budget solutions should be considered.

    ü  Out-year repercussions should be assessed.

    ü  Budget solutions should make sense.

    ü  Current-year solutions should play a key role.

    Basic Strategies

    ü  Determine the relative roles of spending and revenue options.

    ü  Identify the appropriate contributions of different program areas.

    ü  Establish the desired mix of one-time versus ongoing solutions.

    ü  Assess whether a multiyear solution is appropriate and feasible.

    Individual Tools

    ü  Spending-related options.

    ·   Eliminate or modify programs.

    ·   Suspend/reduce COLAs.

    ·   Defer spending.

    ·   Shift funding from the General Fund.

    ·   Implement improvements and efficiencies.

    ·   Revert or disencumber funds.

    ü  Revenue-related options.

    ·   Eliminate or modify tax expenditures.

    ·   Broaden basic tax bases.

    ·   Raise tax rates.

    ·   Transfer special fund balances.

    ·   Improve tax compliance and collections.

    ·   Revise accrual procedures and sell assets.

    Key Principles

   There are four basic budget-balancing principles that can guide the
   Legislature in approaching its decisions:

   Wide Range of Budget Solutions Should Be Considered. Contrary to some
   popular views, most of the budget is "controllable" in that it can be
   modified through statutory changes. For example, only debt service, a
   small portion of total K-12 funding, and retirement contributions are
   truly uncontrollable in the short run. This principle even applies to
   Proposition 98, which can be suspended by a two-thirds vote. In
   addition, there are circumstances where Proposition 98 can be used to
   help the rest of the budget, by funding school-related programs that
   currently are funded outside of the Proposition 98 guarantee. Thus, the
   Legislature should "cast its net wide" when looking for budget
   solutions.

   Out-Year Repercussions Should Be Assessed. Depending on their nature,
   the solutions used to solve one year's budget problem may help or
   hinder future budgets. For example, excessive use of temporary one-time
   solutions can leave underlying structural budget problems unaddressed
   and thereby set the stage for future deficits.

   Budgetary Solutions Should "Make Sense." Budget solutions that
   eliminate or reduce low-priority, ineffective, or inefficient programs
   make economic sense and can even strengthen future budgets. To the
   extent possible, these should be given preference. In contrast, cutting
   back programs for which disruptions are excessively costly can, despite
   saving money in the near term, be counterproductive. Likewise,
   across-the-board spending reductions, while saving money in the near
   term, will not necessarily weed out those ineffective and inefficient
   programs that should be cut in lieu of higher priority programs. As
   another example, blanket hiring freezes preclude the opportunities that
   economic downturns offer for the state to acquire certain types of
   employees (such as information technology specialists) that are harder
   to compete for in good economic times.

   Current-Year Solutions Should Play a Key Role. Quickly implementing
   budget-balancing options tends to increase their potential overall
   impact, by lengthening the period over which they generate savings.
   Conversely, delays in acting compress the time frame available to
   realize savings, and can thereby necessitate deeper programmatic
   reductions than would otherwise be needed. For these reasons, as many
   current-year solutions should be adopted as possible.

    Broad Budget-Balancing Strategies

   These strategies include the desired split between spending reductions
   and revenue augmentations, the relative roles that different program
   areas should play in the overall budget solution, and the mix of
   one-time solutions versus those with out-year or ongoing effects that
   extend for more than just one year.

   Relative Roles of Spending and Revenue Options. This involves the
   question of how the overall budget solution should be split between
   spending-related reductions and revenue-related augmentations, as well
   as the way that spending reductions should be distributed across
   program areas. The first issue involves weighing the underlying need
   for state programs and negative effects of reducing or eliminating
   them, compared to the adverse impacts on individuals and businesses of
   paying higher taxes. Regarding the second issue, some programs are
   likely to provide more of the dollar solution than others, given their
   disproportionately large share of the General Fund budget. These
   include education (which represents roughly half of the budget) and
   health and social services programs (representing about one-quarter of
   the budget).

   One-Time Solutions Versus Those With Out-Year or Ongoing Effects—A
   Critical Decision. The appropriate mix of one-time budget solutions
   versus those with out-year or ongoing effects depends partly on how
   much of the budget problem itself is one-time versus ongoing in nature.
   There are many different mixes of one-time, limited-term, and ongoing
   solutions which might be appropriate. For example:
     * Comprehensive Solution. One alternative might be to adopt a
       comprehensive budget solution involving ongoing actions that fully
       address both the estimated near-term shortfall and projected future
       operating deficits.

     As noted previously, the state faces projected operating
     deficits—which average about $6 billion annually over the forecast
     period. Thus, for example, both the $12.4 billion year-end deficit
     and the underlying structural deficit could be eliminated in 2002-03
     by combining $6 billion in ongoing solutions (whether permanently
     adopted or annually extended) with $6.4 billion in one-time
     solutions.

     * Partial Solution. Another choice might be to "hold back" on
       permanent actions for addressing projected future operating
       deficits until the strength of next year's economy can be observed,
       and the long-term need for such permanent actions is more firmly
       established. Under this approach, greater emphasis might be given
       to limited-term solutions, which could be accompanied by various
       triggers to automatically either continue or eliminate them
       depending on the budget's condition.

     For example, the 2002-03 budget could be balanced with only
     $4 billion in ongoing solutions combined with $8.4 billion in
     one-time actions. Here, however, an additional $2 billion in
     solutions would be needed each subsequent year to avoid the
     reoccurrence of deficits. In this case, provisions could be made for
     some of the one-time solutions to be repeated as needed, or entirely
     new solutions could be adopted.

   What About a Multiyear Solution? During the first half of the 1990s,
   there were two occasions when California adopted budget plans involving
   financing deficits over a two-year period. In both cases, the amount of
   the budget deficit carried over was relatively limited. Previous court
   cases have established the state's ability to borrow cash from
   investors in order to finance its operations during deficit periods.
   However, the exact bounds on such borrowing are not entirely clear. It
   would thus be important for the Legislature to obtain the necessary
   legal clarification should it wish to explore this option.

   If it does consider a multiyear approach, it will be critical for the
   Legislature to weigh the inherent risks associated with delaying
   addressing the budget problem. For example, should the state's economy
   and revenue collections prove to be weaker than forecast, the deficit
   will continue to grow and necessitate even larger spending cuts and
   revenue actions. Another key consideration concerning multiyear
   financing involves the unresolved issues relating to the electricity
   revenue bonds that have been proposed to repay the General Fund's
   $6-plus billion loan for electricity purchases. The failure to
   reimburse the General Fund could seriously compromise any multiyear
   deficit financing.

    Specific Budget-Balancing Tools

   As Figure 5 indicates, there are a number of different categories of
   specific spending and revenue-related options that can be employed
   individually or collectively to address budget problems:

   Spending-Related Options. These include the elimination or scaling-back
   of programs, suspension or reduction of cost-of-living adjustment
   (COLA) increases, spending deferrals, shifting the funding of programs
   from the General Fund to other sources, and implementation of program
   improvements and efficiencies that save money. As illustrations:
     * Program Eliminations and Modifications. The focus here should be on
       identifying programs that no longer serve a clear public purpose,
       do not achieve their objectives, are not cost-effective, provide
       services that are duplicated or could be provided elsewhere, and/or
       are not of high priority.
     * Suspension/Reduction of COLAs. The combined savings from a
       full-year's suspension of statutory COLAs in the health, social
       services, and education areas, for example, could amount to over
       $1 billion.
     * Spending Deferrals. This is most feasible in the case when the
       long-term effectiveness of a program will not be materially
       impaired by a temporary delay in its timing. An example would be
       postponement of certain capital projects.
     * Funding Shifts. This involves shifting funding from the General
       Fund to other sources, such as to fees, the federal government,
       local governments, and the private sector. Examples would include
       fee increases for higher education attendance and reduced state
       contributions for employee health benefits.
     * Program Improvements and Efficiencies. This involves providing the
       same services for less cost, such as by consolidating programs,
       restructuring programs, or improving their management. The
       underlying rationale is to benefit from scale economies, reduced
       duplication, and improved coordination. Possibilities include the
       reorganization of the state's various energy-related agencies, and
       consolidation of the state's many economic development activities.

   Revenue-Related Options. These include the modification or elimination
   of ineffective or inefficient tax expenditure programs (TEPs), the
   broadening of tax bases, increased tax rates, the transfer of special
   fund balances to the General Fund, improved tax compliance and tax
   collections, sales of state assets, and revised accrual adjustments. As
   illustrations:
     * Tax Expenditures. There currently are over 300 TEPs, and their
       annual revenue cost to the General Fund is nearly $30 billion. Many
       of these TEPs are not fully effective or efficient in achieving
       their objectives, including the broad mortgage interest deduction
       and certain tax credits. In addition to eliminating or modifying
       certain TEPs, others could be suspended. For example, in the 1990s,
       net operating loss (NOL) deductions were suspended for two years to
       help deal with the budget problem. Today, such a suspension would
       increase revenues by a total of about $1 billion.
     * Broadening Tax Bases and Raising Tax Rates. A sales tax rate
       increase and two temporary high-income personal income tax (PIT)
       brackets both were used to help solve the 1990s' budget shortfalls.
       Today, the full-year revenue gain from a one-half cent sales tax
       increase and high-income tax brackets would be roughly $2 billion
       and $3.9 billion, respectively.
     * Special Fund Balances. This involves "sweeping" into the General
       Fund the idle cash balances currently residing in special funds,
       subject to various legal restrictions.
     * Improved Tax Compliance and Collections. This involves such steps
       as increasing audit activity on noncompliant taxpayers, and
       accelerating the collection of taxes owed to the state but not yet
       paid.
     * Accrual Revisions and Asset Sales. Regarding accruals, this
       involves such actions as attributing more tax collections to the
       year in which the liabilities are assessed, which can benefit the
       budget balance by counting certain revenues sooner instead of
       later. Regarding asset sales, this involves "monetizing" the
       state's physical and financial assets that are not needed in their
       current form so that they can be used immediately to support state
       programs. Examples include the sale of land and the sale to
       investors of the state's rights to future revenue streams (such as
       the state's tobacco settlement monies).


   How Were the 1990s' Budget Shortfalls Dealt With?

      In the early 1990s, the state's deep and prolonged recession coupled
      with rapid increases in program caseloads resulted in substantial
      budgetary shortfalls. These peaked at over $14 billion (nearly
      one-third of current-law General Fund expenditures), then drifted down
      to $10 billion in 1992-93 (excluding a reserve), $8 billion in 1993-94,
      and $4 billion in 1994-95.

      Given the magnitude of these shortfalls, the state adopted a wide range
      of strategies to close these budget gaps. These included tax increases,
      program spending reductions and deferrals, and shifts of
      responsibilities from the state to federal and local governments. Other
      measures included transfers of monies to the General Fund from state
      special funds and various accounting changes. The state's relative
      reliance on these strategies is summarized by year in Figure 6.


      [fig_6.gif]

      1991-92 Solutions. In addressing the $14 billion shortfall in 1991-92,
      the state adopted $7.7 billion in tax increases. These included a
      five-year imposition of 10 percent and 11 percent marginal personal
      income tax brackets for high-income taxpayers, a one and one-quarter
      cent sales tax increase, an increase in vehicle license fees (VLF), and
      an expansion of the sales tax base to include snack foods, candy,
      bottled water, and newspapers. (The increase in the VLF and a portion
      of the sales tax increase were associated with a state/county
      realignment of health and social services programs.) The state also
      adopted $3.4 billion in expenditure reductions, including $1.9 billion
      from Proposition 98. In addition, it incorporated about $1.6 billion in
      cost shifts (mostly associated with retirement contribution savings),
      and $1.4 billion from special fund transfers and accrual accounting
      changes.

      1992-93 Through 1994-95 Solutions. In the subsequent three years, the
      state's solutions to still-major budget shortfalls shifted somewhat,
      relying increasingly on spending cuts, cost shifts, and other factors.
      Notable actions included large shifts of property taxes from local
      governments to schools, grant reductions in social services programs,
      reductions to Proposition 98, various fee increases, deferrals of
      retirement contributions, and special fund transfers. The budgets
      adopted also included assumptions about major increases in federal
      funds related to immigration (only a small portion of which actually
      materialized), as well as off-book loans to K-12 education. Finally,
      the 1993-94 and 1994-95 budgets relied on two-year budget plans to
      bring the General Fund back into balance. Both of these multiyear plans
      included substantial amounts of external cash borrowing from the
      private credit markets.

   Many Solutions Were Eventually Reversed

      A significant number of the solutions to the early-1990s' budget
      shortfalls were reversed by subsequent court decisions. This resulted
      in added General Fund costs in the latter half of the decade. These
      included the invalidation of the off-book school loans, smog impact
      fees (that were assessed in 1992), deferred state contributions to
      retirement funds, and various special fund transfers.

Initial Proposals to Address the Current Shortfall

   The main effort to address the budget shortfall will begin in January
   when the Governor introduces his proposed 2002-03 budget. As a first
   step in the process, however, the Governor proposed in November a
   variety of current-year spending reductions. This section summarizes
   this proposal and provides some additional current-year options for the
   Legislature to consider.

    The Governor's November Proposal

   The Governor proposes to reduce General Fund expenditures by a total of
   $3 billion—$2.2 billion in the current year and $800 million in the
   budget year. These spending reductions include:
     * The October 23, 2001 Executive Orders that established (1) a hiring
       freeze to be in effect until June 30, 2003 and (2) the reduction of
       at least $150 million in operating expenses and equipment
       expenditures in the current year.
     * Reductions in most program areas, including $850 million in K-12
       education, $240 million in health and social services programs, and
       around $220 million in resources and environmental programs.
     * Around $600 million for various general government programs,
       including housing and statewide utility costs.

   Significant Elements. Given the substantial magnitude of the projected
   budget shortfall to be addressed, the Legislature should adopt as many
   current-year reductions as possible in addition to focusing on the
   budget year. Several characteristics of the Governor's proposals
   deserve special mention:
     * Most Proposed Spending Reductions Are One Time. The Governor's
       proposal for current-year expenditure reductions includes a mix of
       one-time and ongoing reductions. However, the one-time proposals
       dominate, accounting for around $1.5 billion (70 percent) of the
       total proposed $2.2 billion in current-year expenditure reductions.
       The remaining $750 million (30 percent) of the reductions will
       produce ongoing savings of roughly this magnitude.
     * Proposition 98 Accounts for the Largest Share. The $1.5 billion in
       one-time reductions includes significant reductions proposed in
       education programs funded by Proposition 98. These account for the
       largest programmatic share—almost 40 percent—of the Governor's
       total proposed reductions. These reductions are possible because
       the amount appropriated for Proposition 98 in the 2001-02 Budget
       Act exceeded the constitutionally required minimum funding
       guarantee by nearly $4 billion. Our analysis indicates that these
       savings should be viewed as one time in nature. Achieving savings
       in the budget year would require additional actions, such as
       suspension of the minimum guarantee.

   Regarding Proposition 98, it also should be noted that some of the
   Governor's proposed reductions involve amounts currently appropriated
   from the Proposition 98 reversion account. Therefore, in order to
   realize General Fund savings from these options, the Legislature would
   need to switch an equivalent amount of funding for other
   Proposition 98-eligible programs from the General Fund to the
   Proposition 98 reversion account. This is a technical adjustment which
   can be done by amending the 2001-02 Budget Act without affecting the
   educational programs or services supported by the funds being shifted.

    Additional Current-Year Options Exist

   Spending-Related Options. In addition to those current-year reductions
   proposed by the Governor, various additional options exist that the
   Legislature may wish to consider—either as additions to or in lieu of
   the Governor's. Although we have not developed a comprehensive list of
   such options, Figure 7 identifies some individual spending options that
   fall into this category. The selected options shown total $1.5 billion
   and include program eliminations, program reductions, spending
   deferrals, and reversions of unspent appropriations to the General
   Fund.

   Revenue-Related Options. To the extent that revenue-related options are
   of interest in dealing with the budget problem, these would primarily
   generate budget-year effects given the various time lags involved.
   However, there could be some current-year effects associated with them,
   depending on such factors as their implementation dates and the timing
   of taxpayer prepayments. For example, as discussed earlier, three
   budget-balancing options used in the 1990s were a two-year suspension
   of NOL deductions, two temporary high-income PIT tax brackets, and a
   sales tax increase. The 2001-02 partial-year revenue gain from adopting
   similar provisions early in 2002 could be in the $1.5 billion range.


   Figure 7

   Selected LAO Current-Year Budget Options

   (In Millions)

   Department/Program

                            Description of Option

                            General Fund Savings

   Education

   K-12/Proposition 98

   Temporarily suspend Governor's Performance Awards.

   $157.0

   K-12/Proposition 98

   Delay implementation of the Teaching as a Priority Block Grant.

   98.5

   K-12/Proposition 98

   Delay implementation of the Mathematics and Reading Professional
   Development Program.

   80.0

   K-12/Proposition 98

   Temporarily suspend School Bus Safety II Mandate.

   30.0

   K-12/Proposition 98

   Revert unexpended funds from 9th Grade Class Size Reduction Program.

   60.0

   K-12/Proposition 98

   Temporarily suspend Certificated Staff Performance Awards program.

   50.0

   K-12/Proposition 98

   Revert unexpended funds from Cal-Safe Program.

   20.0

   K-12/Proposition 98

   Delay implementation of Principal Training Program.

   15.0

   K-12/Proposition 98

   Revert unexpended funds for beginning teacher salaries.

   12.0

   K-12/Proposition 98

   Delay implementation of Support for Secondary Schools Reading Program.

   8.0

   K-12/Proposition 98

   Delay implementation of High-Tech High program.

   6.0

   K-12/Proposition 98

   Delay implementation of Industry-Based Certificate Grants.

   5.5

   K-12/Proposition 98

   Delay implementation of Charter School Facility Grants.

   5.0

   K-12/Proposition 98

   Delay implementation of Information Technology Career Academy
   Initiative.

   5.0

   K-12/Proposition 98

   Reduce funding for Reading Award Program.

   4.0

   K-12/Proposition 98

   Reduce funding for Advanced Placement Challenge Grants.

   4.0

   Community College/Proposition 98

   Revert prior-year funds for Teacher and Reading Development
   Partnership.

   10.0

   Community College/Proposition 98

   Reduce funding for part-time faculty office hours.

   10.4

   Community College/Proposition 98

   Reduce additional funding for energy costs.

   26.0

   Community College/Proposition 98

   Reduce funding for part-time faculty salaries.

   57.0

   Community College/Proposition 98

   Revert appropriation for Canada College for joint baccalaureate
   program.

   1.0

   University of California

   Revert appropriation for the Internet2 project.

   14.0

   University of California

   Reduce year-round funding reflecting one-year implementation delay.

   13.8

   California State University

   Reduce funding for Educational Technology Institutes.

   6.6

   California State University

   Reduce year-round funding reflecting one-year implementation delay.

   19.9

   Health and Social Services

   Medi-Cal

   Reduce LA Waiver monitoring funds to reflect contract delays.

   3.4

   Medi-Cal

   Reduce May Revision funding increase for county administrative costs.

   43.5

   Medi-Cal

   Reduce funding for Orthopedic Outpatient Hospital Settlement.

   255.1

   Medi-Cal

   Eliminate supplemental long-term care rate increase.

   7.0

   Medi-Cal

   Reduce funding for Adult Day Health Care centers for projected lower
   caseload.

   5.6

   Developmental Services

   Suspend requirement to spend special funds on affordable housing
   projects.

   2.9

   Health Services

   Increase fees paid by lead-product manufacturers.

   6.1

   Mental Health

   Reduce support for various categorical community mental health
   programs.

   10.0

   Mental Health

   Adjust state hospital budget for projected lower caseload.

   5.5

   Foster Care

   Defer implementation of financial assistance for emancipating foster
   youth.

   1.5

   Child Welfare Services

   Defer transitional housing assistance program for foster youth.

   5.2

   Faith Based Initiative

   Eliminate this competitive grant program.

   3.7

   General Government

   Housing/ Community Development

   Transfer unencumbered housing funds to the General Fund.

   17.2

   Housing/ Community Development

   Eliminate one-time funding for the Central Valley Infrastructure
   Program.

   12.0

   Military Department

   Reduce Turning Point Academy budget to reflect lower enrollment.

   3.5

   Transportation

   Transfer interest from State Highway and Public Transportation
   Accounts.

   42.0

   Transportation

   Transfer State Highway Account income on rental property.

   35.0

   State Employees

   Furlough one day.

   23.0

   State Employees

   Eliminate state pick-up of health insurance premium increases.

   4.2

   Technology, Trade, and Commerce

   Eliminate film subsidy program.

   10.0

   Technology, Trade, and Commerce

   Revert uncommitted Infrastructure Bank funds.

   50.0

   Industrial Relations

   Eliminate Divisions of Labor Standards Enforcement and Apprenticeship
   Standards labor law positions.

   2.0

   Food and Agriculture

   Delete funding for the "Buy California" program.

   5.0

   Food and Agriculture

   Delete funding for the Red Imported Fire Ant program.

   3.2

   Public Utilities Commission

   Redirect funding for certain programs to Utilities Reimbursement
   Account.

   1.4

   State Controller

   Reduce budget to reflect discontinuance of school attendance audits.

   1.5

   Criminal Justice

   Restitution Fund

   Transfer portion of Restitution Fund monies.

   19.5

   Judicial

   Reduce Court Appointed Counsel budget to reflect lower claims.

   3.1

   Corrections

   Delay implementation of additional 300 substance abuse beds.

   2.3

   Corrections

   Delay implementation of Sex Offender Containment Program.

   5.6

   Corrections

   Delay implementation of the Financial Management Process Redesign.

   1.2

   Corrections

   Delay implementation of the Mental Health Staff Contracting Pilot
   program.

   10.0

   Corrections

   Phase-in installation of electromechanical doors.

   15.0

   Youth Authority

   Delay Sex Offender Specialized Counseling Program expansion.
