http://library.msha.gov/basisbwdocs/keywdhlp.htm

                            The MSHA Library Search

Field Name: Keyword

   A combination field that includes words (excluding stop words) found in
   the Author, Title, Subject or Report No. Indexes. When you enter
   criteria in the Keyword field, you are searching all keywords in the
   Title, Author, Report Number, and Subject Indexes. Use an asterisk (*)
   for a wildcard.

   To understand how to execute a a search on text fields, you must know
   the definitions of stopwords and keywords. Stopwords are small, common
   words that have little retrieval value, such as "the," "a," "of," and
   "for." Keywords are any words that are not designated as stopwords.
   The following list describes the test operators that appear in the
   droplist box to the right of the Keyword field label.

        includes

              Searches for any keywords in any order when the search
                      values are separated with commas (,)

              Searches for all keywords in any order when the search
                      values are separated with ampersands (&).

        contains all
                Searches for all keywords in any order.

        contains any
                Searches for any keywords in any order.

        contains the phrase
                Searches for all keywords and stopwords in exact order and
                position.

        contains in order
                Searches for all keywords in exact order and position.
                Do not use spaces to separate keywords.

   Search Examples
   Searching multiple fields:
   Choose appropriate field connector from droplist box at the bottom of
   the search form.

   Sort Options:
   You may sort your search results by any of the fields in the droplist
   box at the bottom of the search form. You may also sort them in either
   ascending or descending order. If you select $RANK as the sort
   criterion, then the documents will be sorted according to how many hits
   were found in each. (A hit is a term in the document that matches the
   search value you specified.) If you keep the default value of NONE,
   then the documents will not be sorted.

   Note: When you specify $RANK for the Sort By box, the system will list
   the documents in descending order no matter what value you have
   selected in the Sort Order box.
