http://budget.house.gov/012802pr.htm

                            Press Release Banner

   House Budget Committee
       PRESS RELEASE     Contact: Brenna Hapes -- 202-226-9844
                                     Jan. 28, 2002

                       Budget Committee Web Site Wins Award

        The House Budget Committee today was identified in a non-partisan,
        independent study as having one of the best Web sites in Congress.
        The site www.budget.house.gov received one of the first Congress
        Online Silver Mouse Awards from the Congress Online Project, a
        non-profit education association.

        "The federal budget process can be a particularly complicated and
        confusing subject," said House Budget Committee Chairman Jim Nussle.
        "Our goal for the Web site is to make information on the budget as
        accessible and easy to understand as possible," said Nussle.

        "I am extremely proud of this award because it shows me that we're
        doing a good job of taking a difficult subject, and making it easier
        for the general public to grasp." said Nussle.

        The committee's Web site features links to information on the budget
        process for all levels of interest. For example, a "Budget Tutorial"
        provides basic information on the budget process. The "Budget
        Monitor" describes the impact of events and legislation, such as the
        war on terrorism, on the federal budget. "Budget Week," a weekly
        newsletter printed when the House is in session, summarizes
        budgetary issues in upcoming legislation. The site also provides
        numerous charts and graphs that help make the federal budget easier
        to understand.

        In addition to the wide breadth of information the site covers, it
        is typically updated once or more per day to provide its users with
        the most current information available.

        The House Budget Committee's Web site was one of a select few sites
        to be recognized by the study "Congress Online: Assessing and
        Improving Capitol Hill Web Sites" which evaluated 605 Web sites in
        Congress all Member office, committee and leadership sites to
        determine which sites were the best and to assess how well Congress
        was using this new communications medium.

        The report is designed to both critique current Web site practices
        and provide a blueprint for congressional offices that wish to
        improve their Web sites. The complete list of the Congress Online
        Gold and Silver Mouse Award winners is available in the report on
        the web site of the Congressional Management Foundation.
