http://www.trucks.doe.gov/glossary.html

   image image
         image                         image image
         image             image image
                                       image
                           image
         image image image
                                             image image image
                           image image image
                                                   image
               image             image



      Glossary

   A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T
   | U | V | W | X | Y | Z

                                         A

      Aerosol: A cloud consisting of particles dispersed in a gas or gases.

      Autoclave: A closed vessel that can withstand high temperatures and
      pressures.

      Auxiliary climate control devices: Specialized add-on heating units, or
      combination heating/cooling units, that operate with the truck engine
      turned off. They eliminate the need to leave engines idling solely to
      heat or cool the cab and sleeper compartment.

                                                                  back to top

                                         B

      Base drag: Component of aerodynamic drag caused by a low-pressure
      region behind the vehicle.

      Base pressure: Pressure exerted on the base, or extreme rear portion,
      of a body in a fluid flow.

      Biodiesel: Biodiesel is renewable diesel fuel substitute that can be
      made by chemically combining a natural oil or fat with an alcohol. Many
      vegetable oils, animal fats, and recycled cooking greases can be
      transformed into biodiesel fuel.

      Bluff body: Nonstreamlined shape, especially one with a blunt tail that
      generates a recirculation zone at the rear.

      Boattail: Transition section at the tail of a vehicle that narrows the
      body diameter, used to reduce base drag by directing air into the
      low-pressure zone.

      Boundary conditions: The physical conditions that constrain the flow at
      its boundaries.

      Brake horsepower: Power developed by an engine as measured at the
      flywheel or crankshaft.

      Brake-specific fuel consumption: The ratio of engine fuel consumption
      to power output. It is a measure of engine efficiency.

                                                                  back to top

                                         C

      CAFE Standard: Enacted by Congress in 1975, the Corporate Average Fuel
      Economy program mandates that all manufacturers marketing vehicles in
      the United States meet average fuel economy requirements for each class
      of vehicles they sell. Each manufacturer's fleet must average 27.5 mpg
      for cars and 20.7 mpg for light trucks. Manufacturers are subject to a
      fine of $55 per truck when the average fuel economy of their fleet
      falls short of the CAFE light-truck standard by one mile per gallon.

      Catalyst: A substance that accelerates a chemical change without
      actually entering into the chemical reaction.

      Cetane number (CN): The diesel fuel equivalent to a gasoline octane
      rating, this number expresses the fuel's ignition quality and its
      suitability for spontaneous self-ignition in an engine. The fuel must
      ignite spontaneously and quickly after being injected into the hot,
      compressed air inside the combustion chamber. A higher cetane number
      means a shorter ignition delay and a smaller amount of fuel in the
      combustion chamber when the fuel ignites. Class 8 trucks: Trucks or
      tractor-trailers with a manufacturer's listed gross vehicle weight
      (GVW) of 33,000 pounds or more.

      Central Business District (CBD) Driving Cycle: The CBD cycle is a
      speed-versus-time cycle used to test for bus emissions. This pattern
      was developed as a general representation of transit vehicle operation
      in a downtown business district and consists of 14 identical segments.
      Each segment includes 10 seconds of acceleration, 18.5 seconds of
      cruising at 20 mph, 4.5 seconds of deceleration, and 7 seconds of
      idling. Total driving distance is two miles.

      Common rail direct injection (CDI): A fuel-injection system that uses a
      single "rail" (fuel line) that maintains constant fuel pressure
      regardless of injection sequence (also called common rail injection).
      The engine's electronic timing regulates fuel-injection timing and
      quantity according to data from sensors on the camshafts and
      crankshafts, so that compression and injection occur independently.
      Fuel is injected only as needed, which reduces fuel consumption and
      emissions.

      Compression ignition: The type of ignition that typically initiates
      combustion in a diesel engine. Rapidly compressing the air within the
      cylinders generates enough heat to ignite the fuel as it is injected.
      This is why diesel engines do not need spark plugs for ignition.

      Cooperative Fuel Research engine: A standardized single-cylinder,
      overhead valve, variable compression ratio engine used throughout the
      world for basic research into exhaust emissions and the suitability of
      alternate fuels.

                                                                  back to top

                                         D

      Diesel Engine: Any internal-combustion engine in which air is
      compressed to a sufficiently high temperature to ignite fuel injected
      into a cylinder. A diesel engine differs from other internal-combustion
      engines, such as gasoline engines, in that it employs no ignition
      devices, such as an electric spark. For this reason, it is often called
      a compression-ignition engine.

      Diesel Equivalent Gallon (DEG): The volume of natural gas it takes to
      equal the energy content of one gallon of diesel fuel. Since natural
      gas is not a liquid, its volume is measured in cubic feet, rather than
      gallons. Therefore, the DEG is a way of comparing equivalent volumes of
      fuel based on their energy content in British Thermal Units (Btu).

      Diesel Fuel: Petroleum products normally used as fuel for diesel
      engines are components of crude oil having heavy hydrocarbons
      containing at least 12 to 16 carbon atoms per molecule. These heavier
      fractions are taken from crude oil after the more volatile portions
      used in gasoline are removed.

      Dimethyl ether (DME): A synthetic diesel fuel derived from natural gas,
      an excellent candidate for direct-injection engines. DME contains no
      sulfur and burns more cleanly than conventional diesel fuel, so it
      produces fewer particulates. It behaves much like propane, and its
      cetane number is 55-60, up to 20% better than modern diesel fuel.
      However, the viscosity of DME is 10 times less than that of diesel
      fuel, which makes it difficult to find pumps and valves that will not
      overheat or leak. Also, the entire fuel system must be kept under a
      pressure of at least 5 bars at room temperature to keep the DME liquid
      until it is injected.

      Direct injection (DI): in which a fuel is injected directly into the
      cylinder, as is typical in a diesel engine (also called direct fuel
      injection). Most other internal combustion engines use either
      carburetion, in which the air and fuel are mixed long before the air
      enters the cylinder, or port fuel injection, in which the fuel is
      injected just in front of the cylinder intake valve.

      Downforce: Negative aerodynamic lift.

      Drag: Horizontal aerodynamic retarding force on a vehicle parallel to
      the relative wind direction.

      Drag coefficient: Drag divided by the product of dynamic pressure and
      projected area.

      Dynamometer: A device used to simulate road conditions and loads in
      stationary settings and to gather data about vehicle performance under
      those conditions.

                                                                  back to top

                                         E

      E85: A mixture of 85% denatured ethanol and 15% gasoline, by volume; an
      alternative engine fuel.

      Equivalence ratio: Actual air/fuel ratio divided by the stoichiometric
      air/fuel ratio. An air/fuel mixture is said to be stoichiometric when
      fuel combustion consumes all of the initial reacting species in going
      to completion.

      Ethanol: A liquid alcohol made by fermenting sugars derived from
      starches in plants such as corn or sugar cane (CH3CH2OH, ethyl or grain
      alcohol). When denatured (made unfit for human consumption), it can be
      used as an engine fuel.

      Exhaust aftertreatment: A method of controlling emissions from internal
      combustion engines - primarily NOx - by applying air pollution control
      technologies to engine exhaust (as opposed to treatments applied to the
      engine's intake air or during in-cylinder combustion stages).

      Exhaust gas recirculation (EGR): An emissions control technique that
      reuses engine exhaust gases as part of the intake air supply to help
      reduce harmful emissions (especially NOx).

                                                                  back to top

                                         F

      Finite-element method: Computational method that relies upon dividing
      regions into subregions, subject to boundary conditions, and generating
      a set of linear equations to be solved.

      Fischer-Tropsch fuel: Diesel fuel made from natural gas using a method
      known as the Fischer-Tropsch (FT) process. FT fuels are liquid at
      ambient conditions, have a high cetane number, and effectively no
      sulfur content. They can be used in existing diesel engines.

      Friction coefficient: A measure of how much force is needed to overcome
      friction just enough that one material will slide across another.

      Fuel cell: An electromechanical "engine" (no moving parts) that
      converts the chemical energy of hydrogen and oxygen into electricity
      without combustion; the only by-product is water. The principal
      components of a fuel cell are catalytically activated electrodes for
      the fuel (anode) and the oxidant (cathode) and an electrolyte to
      conduct ions between the two electrodes.

      Fuel reformer: An alternative to storing hydrogen fuel in
      fuel-cell-powered vehicles. No infrastructure currently exists for
      delivering hydrogen fuel to consumers, and hydrogen-storage
      technologies are so large they would limit the driving range of any
      car. Researchers have created onboard fuel-reforming devices that
      release the hydrogen bound up in readily available hydrocarbon fuels.

                                                                  back to top

                                         G

      Gasoline Equivalent Gallon (GEG): The volume of natural gas it takes to
      equal the energy content of one gallon of gasoline. Since natural gas
      is not a liquid, its volume is measured in cubic feet, rather than
      gallons. Therefore, the GEG is a way of comparing equivalent volumes of
      fuel based on their energy content in British Thermal Units (Btu).

      Glow plug: An electrically heated wire that helps ignite diesel fuel
      when a compression ignition engine is cold and the compression process
      may not raise the air to a high enough temperature for ignition.

      Greenhouse gases: Gases, such as carbon dioxide, NOx, methane, and
      water vapor, that help capture heat from the sun in the lower
      atmosphere of the earth. As the amount of greenhouse gases in the
      atmosphere increases, more heat is captured, which can lead to global
      warming (the greenhouse effect).

                                                                  back to top

                                         H

      Heavy-Duty Federal Test Procedure: A transient engine dynamometer cycle
      for heavy-duty truck and bus engines. Includes segments designed to
      simulate both urban and highway driving. Used for emission
      certification testing of heavy-duty diesel engines in the United
      States.

      Hydrocarbons: Chemical compounds that contain only the elements carbon
      and hydrogen.

                                         I

      Indicated mean effective pressure: An average pressure value that
      theoretically must be present in a cylinder of an engine during the
      power stroke to generate the maximum horsepower possible, given the
      pressures recorded within the cylinder during a dynamometer test.

      Indicated thermal efficiency: The work done by fuel combustion inside a
      cylinder over a given time interval divided by the total heat content
      of the fuel supplied to the cylinder during that time.

      Ion chromatography: A form of liquid chromatography that uses
      ion-exchange resins to separate atomic or molecular ions based on their
      interaction with the resin.

                                                                  back to top

                                         K

      KIVA: A transient, three-dimensional, multiphase, multicomponent
      computer modeling code for internal combustion engine calculations. The
      modular nature of KIVA allows for easy modifications in solving a
      variety of hydrodynamics problems involving chemical reactions. KIVA
      has found widespread application in the automotive industry.

                                                                  back to top

                                         L

      Laser: A device that emits very pure and very intense light of a single
      wavelength. When operated in a suitable power, lasers can generate
      intense heat within materials.

      Lean combustion limit: The point at which combustion may not occur
      because the fuel-air mixture contains too little fuel, resulting in
      misfires and increased hydrocarbon emissions. Engine operation with a
      "lean" fuel-air mixture (using as little fuel as possible) reduces NOx
      and hydrocarbon emissions and improves fuel efficiency.

      Lift: Vertical aerodynamic force on a vehicle perpendicular to the
      relative wind direction.

                                                                  back to top

                                         M

      M85: A mixture of 85% methanol and 15% unleaded gasoline, by volume.

      Methanol: An odorless, clear liquid alcohol made from natural gas,
      coal, or biomass, such as wood fiber (CH3OH, methyl or wood alcohol),
      that can be used to as a fuel for engines.

                                                                  back to top

                                         N

      Nanometer: One nanometer (1 nm) is equal to one-billionth of a meter
      (109 m).

      Nitrogen oxides (NOx): A by-product of the combustion process when
      using petroleum-based fuels; one of the primary causes of acid rain and
      a contributor to global warming.

      Nonattainment area: A geographic area in the United States designated
      by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency as having air quality that
      fails to meet the National Ambient Air Quality Standards under the
      Clean Air Act.

                                                                  back to top

                                         O

      OICA test cycle: The test cycle of the Organisation Internationale des
      Constructeurs d'Automobiles (OICA) is used in Europe for emissions
      certification of heavy-duty diesel engines. Engines are monitored with
      a dynamometer over a sequence of 13 steady-state modes. Emissions are
      measured during each mode and averaged over the cycle using a set of
      weighting factors.

      Ozone (O3): A three-atom form of oxygen; ozone, a criteria air
      pollutant, is a primary constituent of smog.

                                                                  back to top

                                         P

      Plasma: Sometimes referred to as the fourth state of matter, plasma is
      a gas consisting of free electrons and ionized molecules in roughly
      equal proportions. Much of the use of plasmas in NOx reduction involves
      non-thermal plasmas, for which ion and gas molecule mean energies are
      much lower than the mean energy of electrons.

      Plasma-assisted catalysis: A diesel exhaust treatment system that uses
      a small amount of electricity from the engine to generate a nonthermal
      plasma (NTP) on a ceramic surface. The resulting reaction can reduce
      NOx and particulates by up to 90% without onboard chemicals or heating.

      Plasmatron: A compact thermal plasma reformer that generates
      hydrogen-rich gas mixtures from hydrocarbon fuel; an onboard
      fuel-reforming device for spark ignition engines.

      Pneumatic aerodynamics: Use of low-pressure compressed air to favorably
      influence aerodynamic forces and moments.

      Proton-induced x-ray emission (PIXE) analysis: A technique for
      nondestructive analysis of mineral inclusions and other small samples.

                                                                  back to top

                                         R

      Regenerative: A system in which energy of motion is captured and
      converted into usable electrical energy.

      Reynolds number: A dimensionless number that is the ratio of the
      inertia force to the friction force on a fluid (gas or liquid). A very
      high Reynolds number (Re) may indicate a turbulent flow, while a lower
      value of Re is more likely to indicate a laminar flow.

      ROG: Reactive organic gas; organic compounds (e.g., hydrocarbons) that
      produce ozone in the presence of NOx.

      Rolling resistance: Retarding force, parallel to the direction of
      travel, caused by tire resistance along the ground.

                                                                  back to top

                                         S

      Scaling relations: Mathematical relations applied to events associated
      with a system at one scale to predict equivalent behavior at a
      different (usually larger) scale.

      Scuffing: A form of localized surface damage caused by inadequate
      lubrication between rubbing surfaces.

      Smog: Aerosol mixture of ground-level ozone and other air pollutants
      produced through chemical reactions.

      Spark ignition engine: An internal combustion engine in which the fuel
      mixture is ignited electrically (e.g., by a spark plug).

      Supercharger: An air compressor designed to force air, under pressure,
      into an engine's cylinders.

      Superplastic forming (SPF): A metal-forming process that uses the
      extreme extendability of certain metal alloys to form complex parts, in
      fewer stages and with minimum waste. The process uses precisely
      controlled rates of strain and temperature to elongate metal without
      tearing or breaking. The cost can be as little as one-tenth the cost of
      conventional machining.

                                                                  back to top

                                         T

      Torque: The turning force produced by an engine.

      Thermal efficiency: The percentage of the heat developed in burning
      fuel that is actually used to develop power.

      Traction: A situation in which the friction between two surfaces allows
      them to stick together enough to do useful work.

      Transmission electron microscope (TEM): A TEM allows a beam of
      electrons to interact with atoms of a thin sample (&lt;100 nm),
      producing information about the sample from transmitted and deflected
      electrons, backscattered and secondary electrons, and emitted photons
      (x-rays). Because the electron beam travels through the sample, TEM and
      x-ray spectroscopy can reveal the structure and composition of its
      interior regions.

      Turbocharger: A turbine driven by exhaust gases that increases engine
      power by forcing relatively large amounts of air into the cylinders of
      an engine.

                                                                  back to top

                                         V

      Vortex shedding: Swirling flow generated by a stream of fluid flowing
      past a flow obstruction, such as a solid body.

      Vorticity: Vector measure of local rotation in a fluid flow.

                                                                  back to top

                                         W

      Wastegate: A valve used to limit the boost developed in a turbocharger.
      A wastegate allows some of an engine's exhaust flow to bypass the
      turbocharger's turbine under certain conditions.

                                                                  back to top

                                         Y

      Yaw angle: The angle of rotation of a body about a vertical axis with
      respect to the flow stream direction.


     Home | Contact Us | Links | Glossary | Message from the Director |
                                 What's New
   Plain Talk on Trucks | Research Areas | Publications | Calendar | Site
                                   Index
                  Privacy and Security Notice | Disclaimer
