http://www.dpi.anl.gov/timelines/1940s.htm



   [Seal.gif] Pre 1930s 1930s 1940s 1950s
                1960s   1970s 1980s 1990s
              __________________________________________________________________

   The Atomic Century 1941      1942     1943     1945      1946
                      1948     1949

   [space.gif] Home

   Themes

   Timelines

   People

   Photo Gallery

   Locations

   Historic Documents


   [space.gif]
   [space.gif]



   THE 1940's

   World War II ended the Great Depression of the 1930's. During the
   1930's three totalitarian, militaristic powers had arisen in the
   world-Germany, Italy, and Japan. Germany, under Adolph Hitler and the
   National Socialist (Nazi) Party, invaded Poland on September 1, 1939,
   and Britain and France-declared war upon Germany and its allies two
   days later. By the summer of 1940, the Nazi Blitzkrieg, or lightening
   war, had rolled over Denmark, Norway, the Netherlands, Belgium, and
   France, giving Germany control of most of western Europe. Italy
   declared war in June 1940, and invaded British and French Somaliland,
   Egypt, and Greece later that summer. Germany, Italy, and Japan signed
   the Tripartite Pact, making them allies, in September 1940. In the Far
   East, Japan had marched through China, reaching French Indochina (now
   Vietnam) by July 1941.

   The United States, however, remained neutral until December 1941, Since
   the close of World War I, the United States had striven to isolate
   itself politically from what it saw as internal European problems.
   President Roosevelt announced, "This nation will remain a neutral
   nation, but I cannot ask that every American remain neutral in thought
   as well," The United States remained neutral in neither thought nor
   action. It sold surplus weapons and traded aging destroyers to the
   British in exchange for military bases.


   December 1941

   On the morning of December 7, 1941, Japanese forces launched a surprise
   attack on the U.S. naval base at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii. Nineteen U.S.
   ships were sunk or damaged, and 3,000 Americans lost their lives. Japan
   also attacked Guam, Wake Island, the Philippines, and other strategic
   points in the Pacific at the same time Pearl Harbor was attacked. In
   his address to a stunned nation, President Roosevelt called December 7
   "a date that will live in infamy." On December 8, the U.S. Congress
   declared war against Japan. Two days after Pearl Harbor, President
   Roosevelt told the nation, "We are going to win the war, and we are
   going to win the peace that follows."

   Top


   September 1942

   The Manhattan Project was formed to secretly build the atomic bomb
   before the Germans. The Army appointed General Leslie Groves, the
   engineer responsible for building the Pentagon, to head the effort. At
   first, the research took place at several University laboratories. Soon
   after Enrico Fermi (see December 1942) achieved a sustainable nuclear
   chain reaction at the University of Chicago, the Manhattan Project
   built a top secret complex of nuclear production and research
   facilities across the country, employing 300,000 workers. The Manhattan
   District of the Army Corps of Engineers built production facilities and
   towns for workers and scientists in Tennessee, Washington, and New
   Mexico and funded research in university laboratories from Columbia,
   New York, to Berkeley, California. Secrecy was so complete that the
   hundreds of thousands of employees didn't know what they were working
   on until they heard about the bombing of Hiroshima, Japan on August 6,
   1945,

   On August 12, 1945, President Truman released the Smyth Report to the
   American public. The report contained information on the Manhattan
   Project, without revealing any atomic secrets. The American public was
   astounded to learn of a top-secret operation with the payroll,
   facilities, and labor force comparable in size to the American
   automobile industry.


   November 1942

   Los Alamos was selected as the site for an atomic bomb laboratory. The
   top-secret laboratory was built deep in the mountains of New Mexico, on
   a mesa northwest of Santa Fe at the site of the Los Alamos Ranch School
   for Boys. Robert Oppenheimer was named the director. Oppenheimer, a
   theoretical physicist from the University of California, Berkeley,
   assembled a team of scientists to translate atomic theory into a
   working explosive device small enough to be delivered by an airplane.
   Officially, the scientists were only told that they would be working on
   a project that might end the war. The Army built numerous temporary
   buildings to house the scientists and their families, who for security
   reasons couldn't leave Los Alamos except -in case of dire emergency,
   Nearly 5,000 people lived and worked at Los Alamos by the close of the
   war.


   December 1942

   Enrico Fermi demonstrated the first nuclear chain reaction in a lab
   under the squash court at the University of Chicago. In a nuclear chain
   reaction, a neutron splits one uranium atom into two smaller atoms,
   which in turn release energy and neutrons; these neutrons split other
   uranium atoms, releasing more energy and neutrons. Eventually enough
   atoms are split and neutrons released that the reaction sustains
   itself. The chain reaction produces energy that can be converted to
   electricity or used in atomic weapons.

   Fermi and his associates built a crude nuclear reactor, which they
   called Chicago Pile 1, with 57 alternating layers of uranium and
   graphite blocks propped up on wooden 4'x 6's. Fermi and his team
   finished the construction of Chicago Pile I on the morning of December
   2, 1942. After hours of methodical testing, at 3:36 pm, Fermi
   announced, "The reaction is self-sustaining,"


   1942-45

   The Clinton Engineer Works was built In Oak Ridge, Tennessee, on 59,000
   acres west of Knoxville, to produce purified uranium, Work was already
   underway on the Clinton Engineer Works when President Roosevelt
   authorized the Manhattan Project, The original plans called for the
   Clinton Engineer Works to house approximately 13,000 people in
   prefabricated housing; however, by the summer of 1943 the estimates had
   been revised to include 4045,000 people. By the end of the war, Oak
   Ridge was the fifth largest town in Tennessee.

   Three production facilities were located in the valleys away from the
   town. The Y-1 2 and the K-25 facilities separated and enriched uranium
   for use in plutonium production reactors. The first true plutonium
   production reactor, located in the heart of the X- 10 facility, began
   operation in November 1943, The Clinton Engineer Works supplied uranium
   for the plutonium production facilities in Hanford, Wash ton and for
   the atomic bomb exploded over Hiroshima, Japan.

   The Clinton Engineer Works was renamed the Oak Ridge National
   Laboratory after World War II.

   Top


   1943-45

   The Hanford Site was built in Richland, Washington by the Manhattan
   Project to produce plutonium. Plutonium is a radioactive element that
   can be produced by bombarding uranium with neutrons. Until November
   1942, the Manhattan Project leaders had assumed that the plutonium
   operation would be located at the Clinton Engineer Works in Oak Ridge,
   Tennessee. However, they decided it would be safer to build the
   operation in a more isolated area where an unforeseen accident wouldn't
   threaten a city or another Manhattan Project plant, The Manhattan
   Project chose a 625-square-mile site on the Columbia River in south
   central Washington, This site offered flat terrain, substantial
   hydroelectric power, isolation, and existing transportation facilities.
   Under the War Powers Act, the government offered the residents of
   Hanford, White Bluffs, Richland, and the surrounding farmland-about
   1,500 people-compensation for their land and ordered them to leave,

   During the summer of 1943, thousands of workers poured into Hanford,
   its population growing to 50,000 by the summer of 1944. The first
   reactor began operation in September 1944. Hanford supplied plutonium
   for the first atomic device tested near Alamogordo, New Mexico in July
   1945 and for the atomic bomb dropped on Nagasaki, Japan in August 1945.

   Top


   February 1945

   The Yalta Summit ratified a divided postwar Europe, American President
   Franklin Roosevelt, British Prime Minister Winston Churchill, and
   Soviet Premiere Josef Stalin met from February 4-11 at Livadia Palace
   near Yalta in the Soviet Union. The "Big Three" met to decide the fate
   of the soon to be defeated Germany and its acquisitions.

   The Big Three agreed that, among other things:

     * Germany would be divided.


       Part of Poland would go to the Soviet Union. (Russia had been
       attacked twice this century by troops pouring through Poland.)
       The provisional Communist government of Poland, set up by the
       Soviets, would be broadened to include free elections.
       The Soviet Union would declare war on Japan two to three months
       after defeating Germany.

   Roosevelt, Churchill, and Stalin reached consensus on many points not
   only because of their willingness to work out any differences but also
   because of the military realities of the moment. American and British
   troops had been bogged down on the western front in Belgium until the
   Soviets stepped up their offensive on the eastern front. By the time of
   the Yalta Summit, Soviet troops were sweeping through Poland,
   Czechoslovakia, Hungary, and Rumania, Their military exploits gave them
   a formidable bargaining position at Yalta. In the war with Japan,
   Americans were suffering heavy losses in the Pacific. As close as
   victory seemed, the United States and Great Britain still needed the
   Soviet Union to win the war.



   April 1945

   U.S. troops liberated the Nazi concentration camp at Buchenwald in west
   central Germany on April 12, 1945. Germany had built its first
   concentration camps in March 1933, shortly after the Nazi party had
   come to power. Throughout the 1930's, the Germans strove to eliminate
   Jewish people from Germany. The 1935 Nuremburg Laws denied Jews their
   civil and political rights. One night in November 1938, Germany erupted
   in anti-Jewish violence. On the Kristallnacht, or "Night of Breaking
   Glass," Germans burned hundreds of synagogues, destroyed Jewish shops,
   and beat Jews in streets. Shortly thereafter, the Nazi government sent
   50,000 Jews to concentration camps at Dachau and Buchenwald. Built in
   1937, Buchenwald was one of twenty such places the Germans constructed
   in Germany, Poland, France, and Czechoslovakia as labor or
   extermination camps, In 194 1, Germany decided to rid itself entirely
   of Jews, sending them to Auschwitz and other concentration camps in
   Poland. As Nazi Germany overran Europe, it sent the Jewish citizens of
   occupied countries to concentration camps. An estimated six million
   people-Jews, Gypsies, homosexuals, the insane, Jehovah's Witnesses, and
   others--died in these camps,


   May 1945

   Germany surrendered on May 8, 1945. By April 1945, Germany was caught
   in a vice as U.S. and British forces moved in from the west and Soviet
   forces moved in from the east, U.S. and Soviet troops met on April 25,
   1945 at Torgau on the Elbe River about 60 miles southwest of Berlin.
   Soviet troops took Berlin on May 2. Two days earlier, Hitler had
   committed suicide in his underground bunker in Berlin. On May 7, German
   military leaders surrendered unconditionally to U.S. General Dwight
   Eisenhower in Rheims, France. On May 8, the United States and Europe
   celebrated VE (Victory in Europe), Day

   The United States and Britain, however, were still at war with Japan.


   July 1945

   The United States exploded the first atomic device at a site near
   Alamogordo, New Mexico. At 5:30 am, July 16, 1945, scientists from Los
   Alamos, watching from observation bunkers 10,000 yards away, exploded
   an atomic device with a plutonium core, releasing a blast equivalent to
   18,600 tons of TNT. The Trinity Test, as it was called, vaporized the
   metal tower from which the device was exploded and turned the sand
   around the base of the tower to glass, A brigadier general who had
   observed the test from a bunker 10,000 yards south of the explosion
   later wrote, "The whole country was lighted by a searing light with the
   intensity many times that of the mid-day sun ... Thirty seconds after
   the explosion come, the air blast pressing hard against people and
   things, to be followed almost immediately by a strong sustained awesome
   roar which warned of doomsday and made us feel that we puny things were
   blasphemous to dare tamper with forces heretofore reserved to the
   Almighty." The blast following the explosion sent searing heat across
   the desert and knocked some of the observers to the ground. It also
   knocked over a 200-ton steel container half a mile from ground zero.

   At the same time, the Big Three powers-United States, Britain, and the
   Soviet Union-were meeting in Berlin for the Potsdam Conference to
   discuss reconstructing postwar Europe and ending the war with Japan.
   The United States and Britain hoped to end the war without a costly
   invasion of Japan. President Truman learned of the success of the
   Trinity Test on the second day of the conference. General Groves, head
   of the Manhattan Project, reported that the uranium and plutonium bombs
   would be ready for use by early August, British Prime Minister
   Churchill and President Truman agreed that the bomb could lead to
   Japanese surrender without an invasion and without Soviet help. On July
   26, the United States, Britain, and China issued the Potsdam
   Proclamation, calling for the Japanese to unconditionally surrender or
   face "prompt and utter destruction," Japan refused.


   August 1945

   The United States dropped atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki,
   Japan. On August 6, 1945, a B-29 bomber-the Enola Gay-released a
   9,700-pound uranium bomb, nicknamed Little Boy, over the city of
   Hiroshima in southern Japan. Hiroshima was an important military and
   communications center with a population of 300,000. It was also the
   only primary target city not thought to have American prisoners, Little
   Boy detonated 1,900 feet above the city, killing 70,000 people and
   wounding another 70,000, The bomb devastated everything within five
   square miles, President Truman warned Japan that if it didn't
   surrender, the United States would attack other targets with equally
   devastating results.

   The Japanese did not surrender, and the United States continued
   conventional bombing raids on Japanese cities. On August 9, another
   B-29 bomber-Bock's Car-headed to bomb Kokura Arsenal; however, the
   pilot switched to his secondary target, Nagasaki, because of the
   weather over Kokura. Nagasaki was the home of a Mitsubishi torpedo
   manufacturing plant. Bock's Car dropped a 1 0,000-pound plutonium bomb,
   nicknamed Fat Man, over the slopes of Nagasaki, Fat Man killed 40,000,
   injured 60,000, and destroyed three square miles of the city. Japan
   surrendered on August 14, 1945.

   Top


   March 1946

   Winston Churchill proclaimed an "iron curtain" had come down across
   Europe. By early 1946, the Soviet Union had control or influence over
   the Eastern European countries it had liberated from Germany. The
   Soviets saw this as necessary for their security, while the West saw it
   as aggressive. While touring the United States, former British Prime
   Minister Winston Churchill announce'


   "From Stettin in the Baltic to Trieste in the Adriatic, an iron curtain
       has descended across the continent, Behind that line lie all the
       capitals of the ancient states of central and eastern Europe.
       Warsaw, Berlin, Prague, Vienna, Budapest, Belgrade, Bucharest, and
       Sofia, all these famous cities and the populations around them lie
       in the Soviet sphere and all are subject, in one form or another,
       not only to Soviet influence but to a very high and increasing
       measure of control from Moscow. `

   Many historians cite this speech as the formal end of the alliance
   between the United States, Britain, and the Soviet Union and the
   beginning of the cold war.



   July 1946

   The Atomic Energy Act was passed, establishing the Atomic Energy
   Commission (AEC). The AEC replaced the Manhattan Project on December
   31, 1946. During the first half of 1946, the Congress debated whether
   atomic energy should be under civilian or military control. Civilian
   control won, The Act placed further development of nuclear technology
   under civilian rather than military control. Senator McMahon, the
   author of the Act, also known as the McMahon Act, called it "a radical
   piece of legislation" because it gave the AEC a monopoly over both
   military and commercial uses of atomic energy. The Act said atomic
   energy should be directed "toward improving public welfare, increasing
   the standard of living, strengthening free competition among private
   enterprises ... and cementing world peace." However, the Act prohibited
   private companies or individuals from owning nuclear materials and
   patenting inventions related to atomic energy. The Act also restricted
   information on using nuclear materials to produce energy as well as on
   designing, making, and using atomic weapons.


   July 1946

   The United States tested nuclear devices at Bikini Atoll in the
   Marshall Islands in the Pacific. During Operation Crossroads, the
   United States exploded two atomic devices-one above the water on July 1
   and the other below the water on July 25-to test the effects of atomic
   weapons against naval vessels, The 162 inhabitants of Bikini Atoll were
   relocated to Rongerik Atoll, 128 miles east of Bikini, and eventually
   moved to Kili Island, Approximately 70 ships and submarines, "manned"
   only by test animals, were anchored in the lagoon of Bikini Atoll for
   each test. The above water test sank five ships; the below water test
   sank nine. Both tests used atomic devices like the one dropped on
   Nagasaki, Japan. Forty-two thousand servicemen witnessed the tests from
   the decks of ships anchored outside Bikini Atoll. Four days after the
   last test, the bikini swimsuit debuted at a French fashion show.

   The United States used Bikini Atoll again for its largest atomic test
   ever, code-named Bravo, in February 1954, The explosion from the Bravo
   test was three to four times greater than anticipated, equal to that of
   15 million tons of TNT. The fallout area was also three to four times
   greater than anticipated. Fallout from the test contaminated an area
   300 miles downwind from the explosion and 40 miles wide. Rongelap
   Island, 120 miles from the test, and Utrik Island, 300 miles away, were
   hurriedly evacuated days after the explosion.

   In 1967, the Atomic Energy Commission ruled the radiation on Bikini
   Atoll had decreased enough for people to live there again, After
   removing debris from the tests, some plants, and some topsoil, the U.S.
   government allowed several dozen people to return to Bikini Atoll in
   1969, However, further studies proved the island was still dangerous,
   and the inhabitants had to return to Kill Island. Currently, the level
   of cesium-1 37 in Bikini Atoll's topsoil is too high to permit its
   former inhabitants to return permanently. Since 1990, Congress has
   appropriated approximately $90 million to be used by the Bikinians to
   clean up their atoll. Currently, the citizens are working with national
   laboratories and independent contractors to guide their cleanup
   decisions.

   During the atomic testing, servicemen aboard the decks of the ships
   received radiation doses from the nuclear fallout. Although at the time
   of the testing no one knew how much radiation the men would be exposed
   to or the effects of these doses, these servicemen have raised legal
   issue with the U.S. government, Independent of this issue, the Centers
   for Disease Control and Prevention is conducting a study to determine
   if thyroid disease among citizens of the Republic of the Marshall
   Islands is related to nuclear fallout from these atomic weapons tests.


   August 1946

   The Oak Ridge National Laboratory shipped the first nuclear
   reactor-produced radioisotopes for civilian use to the Bainard Cancer
   Hospital in St. Louis, Missouri, After World War II, Oak Ridge turned
   out numerous inexpensive radioactive compounds for medical diagnosis
   and treatment and for research and industrial applications. In the June
   14, 1946 issue of Science. Oak Ridge listed all the radioisotopes its
   laboratories could prepare, The ad drew quick response, and Oak Ridge
   sent out its first shipment of carbon-14 in August.

   Top


   April-May 1948

   Nuclear tests in the South Pacific, code-named Operation Sandstone,
   paved the way for mass production of weapons that previously had to be
   assembled by hand. During 1947, scientists at Los Alamos focused on
   designing atomic devices smaller and more efficient than those dropped
   on Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Conducted on Eniwetok Atoll in the Marshall
   Islands, Operation Sandstone proved the success of the new designs. .
   By late 1948, the United States had 50 nuclear bombs.

   The U.S. Department of Defense and the U.S, Department of Energy's
   predecessor agency completed cleanup of Eniwetok Atoll in 1977.
   Contaminated soil and debris was removed from the atoll and
   encapsulated with concrete in an atomic test crated on a "sacrifice"
   island.


   June 1948

   The Soviet Union began the Berlin Blockade, cutting West Berlin off
   from the West. After the war, the Allies divided Germany into four
   zones, controlled by the United States, France, Britain, and the Soviet
   Union, respectively. They also partitioned Germany's capital, Berlin,
   even though it was located in the Soviet occupation zone. The United
   States, France, and Britain, convinced that cooperation with the
   Soviets was no longer possible, planned to set up an independent West
   Germany, made up of their zones. The Soviets, perhaps hoping to block
   this, cut off traffic to and from the U.S., French, and British zones
   of Berlin. The United States began a vast airlift to keep West Berlin
   supplied with food and fuel. The airlift continued until May 1949, when
   the Soviets lifted the blockade. By then, West Germany had already been
   established.

   Top


   May 1949

   Nationalist Chinese forces led by Chiang Kai-shek retreated from
   mainland China to Formosa. Mao Tse-tung and the communist People's
   Liberation Army had fought against Chiang Kaishek's Nationalist
   government since the 1920's. When Japan invaded China in the 1930's,
   the two parties made a pact to defend China from its invader. Civil war
   erupted again after the end of World War II, After Mao's victory, the
   United States refused to recognize the People's Republic of China. In
   August 1949, U.S. Secretary of State Dean Acheson wrote in the China
   White Paper, "the Communist regime serves not (Chinese) interests but
   those of Soviet Russia."


   August 1949

   The Soviet Union detonated its first atomic device on August 29, 1949.
   The event surprised American nuclear scientists-who hadn't expected it
   so soon-and shook the American public's sense of security. Thousands of
   Americans volunteered to scan the skies with binoculars for Soviet
   bombers as part of "Operation Skywatch."

   The Communist revolution in China and the successful detonation of the
   Soviet's first atomic device caused President Truman to reassess the
   United State's position in the world. NSC 68, a National Security
   Council document approved by President Truman in 1950, called for the
   United States to substantially build up its conventional and nuclear
   forces to stop the spread of Soviet influence in the world.

   Top

                      Pre 1930s | 1930s | 1940s | 1950s
                        1960s | 1970s | 1980s | 1990s
                 __________________________________________
