http://radiojove.gsfc.nasa.gov/faqs/rj_faq1.htm

    Home · Visitor Center · Library · Classroom · Electronics Lab ·
   Control Room · Data Analysis Lab · Office · Web Search

   Radio JOVE Banner Planetary Radio Astronomy
                     for Schools

   [rule.gif]

   Frequently-Asked Questions

   Basic Questions

      B1. Why do we study Jupiter and Solar radio emissions?
      B2. I have never heard Jupiter and the Sun - what do they sound like?
      B3. How do I know that what I am hearing is Jupiter? The Sun?
      B4. I've heard about Radio JOVE, how do I order a kit?
      B5. Can I participate and order a kit if I am not associated with a
      school?
      B6. What software is available as part of the JOVE program and where
      can I get it?
      B7. Do you have background materials for teachers?
      B8. If I run into a problem in putting the kit together, how do I get
      help?

   Science Questions

      S1. What frequencies do Jupiter and the Sun transmit on?
      S2. When should I listen to Jupiter?
      S3. OK, I have these Jupiter records, now what?

   Technical Questions

      T1. I am a ham radio operator and have an HF transceiver - can I use
      that to listen to Jupiter and the Sun?
      T2. Can I receive Jupiter on my satellite dish?
      T3. I have read that the loop antenna is good for Jupiter. Is that
      true?
      T4. I've built my receiver and antenna, now what do I do?
      T5. Is it safe to leave the JOVE antenna, receiver and a computer
      connected during a nearby lightning storm?
      T6. What is the difference between the in-phase and anti-phase
      connection of the JOVE antenna?
      T7. Can I mount the JOVE antenna on a rooftop?
      T8. I want to locate my receiver indoors but the antenna lead won't
      reach - can I use a longer piece of coax?
      T9. I want to operate the JOVE receiver indoors - what kind of power
      supply can I use so I don't have to keep buying expensive batteries?
      T10. How should I adjust the receiver and tape recorder gain controls?
      T11. Sometimes when I am using the JOVE receiver to monitor for the Sun
      I hear a Spanish radio station that I can't tune out - it's all over
      the dial. Is my radio broken?
      T12. When I am listening for Jupiter I hear a loud chirp every few
      minutes - what is that?
      T13. How long does the Radio Shack 12 volt battery last. How do I know
      when to replace it?

   Basic Answers

      B1. Why do we study Jupiter and Solar radio emissions?

      We study both Jupiter and solar radio emissions to better understand
      their magnetic fields and their plasma [charged particle] environment.
      Studying other planets always helps us better understand the Earth, and
      this is true when we study Jupiter's radio emission. Earth also emits
      radio waves by similar processes, so we can better understand this
      process by listening to Jupiter from both ground-based and space-based
      radio antennas.

      Not only can we learn about why the radio waves are created and how
      they move through space, we can also learn about the interior of
      Jupiter and about Jupiter's moons. Radio waves are generated because
      the planet has a magnetic field. This magnetic field originates deep in
      the interior of the planet, and the overall strength of the magnetic
      field directly affects the type of radio emission emitted by the
      planet. This helps us with the theory of how the magnetic field is
      created in the interior, and in determining the composition of the
      various interior layers.

      Jupiter's moons are close enough to Jupiter that they interact
      electrically and magnetically with Jupiter's magnetic field. The moon
      Io directly influences the radio emission, so we can learn about Io as
      well. Recently it was discovered that some of the other large
      satellites are influencing the radio emission, so we are now learning
      more about their composition and magnetic properties.

      By studying radio emissions from the Sun we can similarly learn about
      the magnetic field of the Sun. We cannot make direct inferences about
      Earth by studying the Sun, but we can better learn how our Sun works
      and thus how all other stars work. Studying radio emission also helps
      scientists learn about the 11-year solar cycle, because the amount and
      types of radio waves that are emitted change with the solar cycle.

      Another crucial reason we study radio emission from the Sun is to
      better understand how the Sun affects the Earth. The solar wind
      directly impacts Earth by influencing our magnetic field and our space
      environment. The solar wind causes aurora and can also affect
      communications, our power grids, and even our astronauts out in space.
      We want to understand the connection between the Earth and the Sun so
      we can learn more about each body and more about how humans are
      affected by this interaction.
      B2. I have never heard Jupiter and the Sun - what do they sound like?

      Jupiter produces a wide range of bursts with different sounds. The two
      most common types are L-bursts and S-bursts. L-bursts (long bursts)
      last from a few tenths of a second to a few seconds and sound like
      ocean waves breaking up on a beach. S-bursts (short bursts) have
      durations of a few thousandths to a few hundredths of a second and can
      occur at rates of tens of bursts per second. Groups of S-bursts sound
      like popcorn popping - or like a handful of pebbles thrown onto a tin
      roof. S-bursts are often associated with the Io-B or Io-C source. Many
      times the Jovian activity is a mix of L and S-bursts, making the sounds
      a little more difficult to identify. Jovian activity extends over at
      least a few hundred kiloHertz so if you suspect that you are hearing
      Jupiter bursts tune the radio slightly - if the signals persist then it
      is most likely Jupiter and not a station fading in and out.

      Solar bursts typically last from half a minute to a couple of minutes
      and often sound like a rapid increase in the background noise followed
      by a gradual decrease back to the original baseline level.

      You can hear recorded Jovian bursts at the University of Florida Web
      site http://www.astro.ufl.edu/radioobs.html , and Solar and Jovian
      bursts at the Windward Community College Hawaii Web site
      http://jupiter.wcc.hawaii.edu/ as well as on the JOVE Web site at
      http://radiojove.gsfc.nasa.gov/dal/data_samples.htm.
      B3. How do I know that what I am hearing is Jupiter? The Sun?

      Please see the answer to the previous question.

      Experience will make the sounds of Jupiter familiar and easier to
      identify. Listen carefully to the recordings of sample Jovian bursts
      several times. How would you describe those sounds? It may be helpful
      to listen to the various sounds picked up by your Radio JOVE receiver
      at times when you don't expect to hear Jupiter. Local machinery,
      electrical equipment, and atmospheric conditions produce a host of
      different sounding noise. The PC that you use may also make some noise
      that can be picked up by your receiver (the CRT monitor is a common
      source). Become familiar with these non-Jovian sounds, and you'll be
      able to distinguish Jupiter's decametric radio emissions.

      We suggest that you listen carefully to the bursts as an aid to
      identification. Solar bursts sound like you had turned up and down the
      volume control - in other words the sound (character) of the noise is
      the same - it just gets louder during a solar burst.

      Interference on the other hand has a different sound - power line
      arcing for instance has a raspy buzzing sound. During the daytime you
      may also be picking up station interference - you should of course tune
      the receiver to a clear frequency. Sometimes distant stations will fade
      in and out - making it a bit more difficult to find a good clear
      frequency.

      Abrupt turn on and turn off of noise suggests that it is manmade - for
      example rotary machinery like an electric drill can generate radio
      noise. So can light dimmers, aquarium heaters, electric fences,
      electric blanket thermostats, automobile ignition systems, computers
      and just about a million other electrical appliances. But with a little
      practice you will learn to identify the pure sounding noise associated
      with a solar burst.
      B4. I've heard about Radio JOVE, how do I order a kit?

      An order form for the Radio JOVE radio telescope kit can be found on
      our Web site by going to the Radio JOVE home page and clicking on "Kit
      Orders". Or go directly to the web address
      http://radiojove.gsfc.nasa.gov/office/order_form.txt. Follow the
      instructions on that form.
      B5. Can I participate and order a kit if I am not associated with a
      school?

      Yes! While our project is intended to make planetary radio astronomy an
      educational experience for students, many amateur scientists have
      joined Radio JOVE. Please fill in and submit an observing team
      application form with the information that applies to your situation.
      This will enable us to share information from the project and from
      other observers with you.

      Many Radio JOVE participants share their interest in the project with
      scouts and individual students from their areas. Maybe there are some
      kids from your neigborhood, or local scout troops who would enjoy
      learning about Radio JOVE? Why not invite them to observe with you?
      B6. What software is available as part of the JOVE program and where
      can I get it?

      Several authors have contributed sophisticated programs suitable for
      use by Radio JOVE. These programs include functions such as chart
      recorder-type intensity plots, data logging, observing aids, audio
      spectrum displays, and even multi-observer data sharing.

      You can find these programs by going to the Radio JOVE home page and
      clicking on the Data Analysis Lab link. From there, select the Useful
      Software link. Or enter http://radiojove.gsfc.nasa.gov/dal/software.htm
      in the location box of your web browser.

      Please remember that you are bound by the license agreements for the
      software that you install and use.
      B7. Do you have background materials for teachers?

      Yes, and we are developing more materials for both background and
      classroom use. Please read "'Radio JOVE at a Glance"
      (http://radiojove.gsfc.nasa.gov/vc/glance.htm) and "How can My School
      Join In?" (http://radiojove.gsfc.nasa.gov/office/rj_joinin.htm).

      Next, go to our Web site's Classroom page and click on the link to
      "Educational Materials". Additional background reading can be found by
      going to Radio JOVE's Library page and clicking on the link to
      "Recommended Reading"
      B8. If I run into a problem in putting the kit together, how do I get
      help?

      Your first course of action should be to re-read the construction
      manual carefully - especially the section on troubleshooting. The Radio
      JOVE project maintains both a Web-based discussion board and an e-mail
      distribution list. Both are useful for asking questions about any
      problems you encounter. To reach the discussion board, go to the Radio
      JOVE home page click on "Discussion Board". If you've provided a
      contact e-mail address on your team application, you have been added to
      our e-mail list.

      Additional information can be found on our Electronics Lab page under
      "Electronic Tips".

      If you require hands-on assistance, you might find an electronics
      hobbyist or an amateur radio operator in your area who is experienced
      at building and trouble-shooting electronic circuits. See our Web page
      "Teaming with Radio Amateurs" for information on seeking help from ham
      radio operators or amateur radio astronomers.
      [rule.gif]

   Science Answers

      S1. What frequencies do Jupiter and the Sun transmit on?

      When you tune in a broadcast or shortwave station on your radio you
      find that the signal occupies only a small region of the radio dial. I
      could tell you to tune in WWV on 20 MHz, for example, and you would
      find the signal right there at 20 MHz. Just above and below 20 MHz, the
      signal from WWV would be absent. This is because radio stations are
      narrow band transmitters. Any one station occupies only a small chunk
      of the electromagnetic spectrum.

      Most non-artificial transmitters of radio waves, like the Sun and
      Jupiter, send out emissions over broad segments of the electromagnetic
      spectrum. In fact, they tend to emit at least some energy at every
      frequency in the entire spectrum, though not evenly. The Sun and
      Jupiter have complex emission mechanisms that produce signals which may
      be quite strong over a range of frequencies, usually many MegaHertz
      wide. These broad emissions can drift, (usually downward), in frequency
      in a matter of seconds, so they can be moving targets. The answer to
      the question is that there is no one frequency where you tune in to
      find Jupiter or the Sun. You can tune your receiver around a bit to
      avoid interference but as far as the signals from Jupiter or the Sun
      are concerned, it will make no difference if you list at 20.10 or
      20.150 MHz, for example. If you hear one of these sources at one of
      these frequencies, you will hear at the other.

      Having said all this, you should understand that there are some ranges
      of frequencies that are better for listening for these signals. Below
      about 18 MHz, it is very hard to pick up signals originating from space
      because the Earth's ionosphere absorbs and reflects the signals at
      these lower frequencies. Above about 40 MHz, Jupiter does not produce
      noise storm signals. Solar bursts are best heard from about 200 MHz and
      downward to the 18 MHz band. Not all solar bursts cover this entire
      range and sometimes a burst will be heard at 50 MHz, for example, but
      not be heard at all 20 MHz.
      S2. When should I listen to Jupiter?

      Jupiter emits radio waves that can be detected here on Earth, but it is
      not continuous emission. These bursty radio emissions depend directly
      on the space environment around Jupiter. Fortunately some of these
      radio emissions are predictable because they depend on the position of
      the moon Io in its orbit around Jupiter. Knowing the correct longitude
      of Jupiter and the position of Io, we can make prediction tables that
      help you know when to observe Jupiter. These predictions are not
      perfect, but they give you the best opportunity to detect the radio
      storms.

      To check the prediction tables you can go to three sources:
      1. The University of Florida's Radio Observatory Prediction Tables
      go to: http://www.astro.ufl.edu/juptables.html
      2. Astronomer Jim Sky from Radio JOVE has prediction reports:
      go to: http://www.radiosky.com/juprpt.html
      3. Get the listing from our Radio JOVE bulletin
      S3. OK, I have these Jupiter records, now what?

      Now you have made an observation. What can you do with your data? First
      if you have made a tape recording of it, you can make a digital
      computer file by playing your tape recording into your computer via
      your sound card. This allows you to plot the data on an intensity
      versus time graph using the available software with your kit
      (JoveChart, Radio Jupiter Pro, or Skypipe). You can then do many
      things:

      1. Compare your observations with others by looking at data archives on
      various websites:
      http://radiojove.gsfc.nasa.gov
      http://jupiter.wcc.hawaii.edu/stripchartarchive.htm
      http://www.astro.ufl.edu/~fsgc/jove/Jovearc.htm
      2. Submit your data for our Radio JOVE archive
      3. If your data is a solar burst, check the NOAA website to see if they
      observed the same radio burst:
      gopher://sec.noaa.gov:70/11/indices/events
      4. Use the Radio JOVE Classroom page to look at Lesson Plans on how you
      can make interesting calculations with your data.
      [rule.gif]

   Technical Answers

      T1. I am a ham radio operator and have an HF transceiver - can I use
      that to listen to Jupiter and the Sun?

      Absolutely - the only problem is that you must be able to turn off the
      automatic gain control circuit (AGC). Many ham radio transceivers have
      an AGC mode switch controlling AGC speed (slow, medium and fast), as
      well as AGC off. In the AGC off position the receiver gain may be
      manually adjusted with an RF gain control. The RF gain control should
      be set at, or near, maximum gain. If your transceiver operates only in
      the ham bands then try either the 15 or 17 meter band for Jupiter.
      Solar bursts may be stronger in the 10 meter band where ionospheric
      attenuation is decreased. Of course you must use an antenna cut for the
      frequency of operation. A ham transceiver with a general coverage
      receiver could operate with the JOVE antenna at 20.1 MHz. A beam (Yagi)
      antenna or a quad can be used when Jupiter of the Sun is relatively
      close to the horizon.
      T2. Can I receive Jupiter on my satellite dish?

      No, your satellite dish was designed for microwave reception. In the
      Radio JOVE project we are interested in the "decametric" radio waves
      that Jupiter emits (up to about 40 MHz). Above 40 MHz Jupiter's noise
      storms are not detectable. Jupiter does emit at higher frequencies but
      its signal is very weak and hard to detect. Frank Drake at National
      Radio Astronomical Observatory in Green Bank, West Virginia detected
      Jupiter in the microwave region way back in the late 1950's, but he was
      using a dish antenna that was 85 feet in diameter! If you have a dish
      like that, you might be successful like Drake.
      T3. I have read that a loop antenna is good for Jupiter. Is that true?

      There have been several articles published proclaiming the small loop
      antenna as suitable for listening to Jupiter. If this were so, the
      antenna would be quite an attractive antenna to use because it is
      portable and manually pointable, however, as far as we know there has
      never been a good scientific comparison made between small loop
      antennas and other full size antennas like dipoles or dual dipole
      arrays. To be useful, such a comparison would require side-by-side
      operation with identical equipment using a common calibration source.
      While, this might make a nice project for an advanced amateur
      scientist, it is not suggested as your first project. We suggest you
      use the JOVE dual dipole antenna, which is field proven in this
      application. Antenna experimentation is an exciting and fun activity
      and if you are technologically savvy enough, feel free to engage in it,
      however, for the beginning Jupiter observer, you will probably find
      that there is challenge enough without adding another "unknown" factor
      into your experiments.

      In contrast, a full-wave loop antenna (12 1/2 feet on each side for a
      square loop) can be used to listen to Jupiter at Radio JOVE's frequency
      near 20 MHz. It's performance should be somewhat less than that of the
      dual dipole array and somewhat better than that of a single dipole for
      typical Radio JOVE use. For the best chance at success, however, we
      recommend the dual dipole array for your first Radio JOVE antenna.
      T4. I've built my receiver and antenna, now what do I do?

      Extensive information on observing Jupiter's emissions can be found in
      Richard Flagg's book "Listening to Jupiter" which is included on your
      Radio JOVE CD-R. On our Web site's Control Room page, you'll find links
      to collections of observing "how-to" information, including basic
      information about Radio JOVE observations.

      Once you have all the necessary equipment, locate a suitable place to
      set it up. We recommend setting it up during daylight hours. Set up
      your radio telescope and double-check the connections and antenna
      phasing. At that time, you can perform a reception test by tuning the
      receiver to 20.0 MHz and listening for time station WWV's signals. With
      successful reception of WWV, you're ready to try your luck at hearing
      Jupiter or the Sun. Information on the best times to observe can be
      found on our Web site and are advertised via the project's e-mail list.
      T5. Is it safe to leave the JOVE antenna, receiver and a computer
      connected during a nearby lightning storm?

      NO it is not safe. One JOVE team member lost a receiver and computer to
      a nearby lightning strike. ALWAYS disconnect your antenna if there is a
      nearby lightning storm. The best practice is to disconnect your antenna
      from the receiver when it is not in use.
      T6. What is the difference between the in-phase and anti-phase
      connection of the JOVE antenna?

      The JOVE antenna is made up of two dipole antennas. A coaxial cable
      runs from the central power combiner to each dipole antenna. The
      coaxial cable going to each antenna has two wires - one is the center
      conductor, and the other is the braided shield. These two wires are
      attached to a dipole antenna on either side of the center insulator.
      Lets assume that the dipole wires are running in the East-West
      direction and that the center conductor of each coax is attached to the
      west wire. Since both antennas have the center conductor connected to
      the west wire they are connected in-phase. The in-phase connection
      produces an antenna beam directed straight overhead. Now if one of the
      dipoles is rotated 180 degrees the coax center conductor of one antenna
      will be connected to the west wire and the coax center conductor of the
      other antenna will be connected to the east wire. This is the
      anti-phase or out-of-phase connection. The resulting antenna pattern
      has a null directly overhead and two broad beams - one 45 degrees above
      the southern horizon and the other 45 degrees above the northern
      horizon. If you live at a high northern latitude and Jupiter only gets
      about 45 degrees above your southern horizon then the anti-phase
      connection is what you want.

      Another configuration is with the antenna wires running North-South.
      Again, the in-phase connection results in a broad beam about 60 degrees
      wide centered straight overhead. The anti-phase connection produces two
      broad beams - one 45 degrees above the eastern horizon and the other 45
      degrees above the western horizon. The in-phase connection is good for
      radio noise storms predicted to occur when Jupiter is near overhead
      while the out-of-phase connection will work better for storms occurring
      well before or after transit.
      T7. Can I mount the JOVE antenna on a rooftop?

      If you have no clear open space on the ground to erect the antenna then
      it may be worth trying it on a rooftop. The antenna pattern may be
      affected by metal in the roof structure and roof mounted air
      conditioning units may generate undesirable electrical noise. A rooftop
      antenna may also be more susceptible to lightning and should always be
      disconnected when not in use. (It is a good precaution to disconnect
      any antenna when not in use - particularly during lightning season.)
      T8. I want to locate my receiver indoors but the antenna lead won't
      reach - can I use a longer piece of coax?

      Yes, you can, BUT NOT JUST ANY LENGTH OF COAX. The cable going from the
      power combiner to the receiver should be a multiple half wavelength
      long. The cable supplied with the kit is one wavelength - that is 9.85
      meters long (taking into account the 66% velocity factor of the RG-59/U
      cable). The maximum recommended cable length is 5 wavelengths. There
      are many different manufacturers and qualities of coaxial cable. The 75
      ohm cable supplied with the kit is manufactured by Belden and has a
      solid center conductor and velocity factor of 66%. Radio Shack does not
      carry RG59/U cable but they do have RG-6 and the higher grade RG-6QS
      (quad shield), which is also 75 ohm cable. Both of these cables have a
      velocity factor of 78%. One wavelength at 20.1 MHz in RG-6 cable is
      11.64 meters. If you are going to put in a longer feedline we recommend
      that you completely replace the existing one wavelength piece - rather
      than splicing another length of cable onto the end.
      T9. I want to operate the JOVE receiver indoors - what kind of power
      supply can I use so I don't have to keep buying expensive batteries?

      A well-regulated 120 volts AC to 12 volts DC power supply such as the
      Radio Shack #22-502 will work. Some power modules that plug directly
      into the wall (known affectionately as "wall warts") may work - but
      these power supplies are often poorly regulated and will cause severe
      hum problems when used with the JOVE receiver.
      T10. How should I adjust the receiver and tape recorder gain controls?

      The receiver volume control is normally set between the 12 o'clock and
      3 o'clock position and the tape recorder volume control should be set
      so the the VU meter is about 15 units below the distortion line. If
      your recorder has signal strength indicating LEDs rather than a VU
      meter, set the volume controls so that the first LED is lit on the
      galactic background noise. This will allow for a strong Jupiter burst
      before distortion occurs on the tape. Since solar bursts can be quite a
      bit stronger than Jupiter bursts it is a good idea to run the receiver
      gain and recorder gain controls a little lower for solar observations.
      Be sure to turn off the recorder automatic level control (ALC).
      T11. Sometimes when I am using the JOVE receiver to monitor for the Sun
      I hear a Spanish radio station that I can't tune out - it's all over
      the dial. Is my radio broken?

      No, your radio is not broken, instead its selectivity - that is, its
      ability to receive a particular frequency and reject others - is being
      overloaded by a very strong shortwave radio transmitter. Other
      observers have had this problem and one of them traced the station to
      Radio Marti broadcasting on 21.5 MHz. One solution is to use a filter
      designed to improve rejection of signals outside the tuning range of
      the JOVE receiver. For information on such a filter send e-mail to
      rf@hawaii.rr.com .

      The frequencies in the range used by the Radio JOVE receiver are very
      actively used by man-made transmitters. These are especially noticable
      during the day when these transmitters use the ionosphere's F Layer to
      extend the range of their signals. The best example of this is the time
      and frequency standard station WWV at 20.0 MHz. You may occasionally
      hear different types of man-made transmissions on your Radio JOVE
      receiver, including two-way voice, morse code, and digital signals of
      various types. In most cases, you should be able to simply tune out
      stations of this type.
      T12. When I am listening for Jupiter I hear a loud chirp every few
      minutes - what is that?

      What you are hearing is probably caused by a device known as an
      ionosonde. It is used to probe the Earth's ionosphere and it transmits
      a signal that sweeps across the radio frequency spectrum. Each time it
      sweeps past 20.1 MHz it sounds like a chirp in the JOVE receiver.
      Ionosondes are operated all around the world by various government
      agencies and research groups.

      A repeated "chirp chirp chirp" is likely a different kind of man-made
      signal. Several varieties of error-correcting digital modes of
      transmission may make this type of sound.
      T13. How long does the Radio Shack 12 volt battery last?

      The Radio shack #23-007 lantern battery will last on the order of 10
      hours of powering the JOVE radio. The battery should be replaced if the
      DC voltage drops below 10.5 volts. Measure the voltage across the
      battery terminals with a DC voltmeter or a suitable multimeter. (Make
      this measurement when the receiver is turned on.) Longer life options
      include the Power Station - a rechargeable 12 volt battery available at
      Radio Shack and other outlets. Also, with a suitable fused adapter the
      JOVE receiver can be powered from the cigarette lighter of a car. Note
      that there is no fuse inside the JOVE receiver and to exercise caution
      not to short out the power connection to a large battery! REMEMBER,
      ALWAYS OBSERVE WITH SAFETY IN MIND!

   [rule.gif]

   [logo2c.gif] Home Page
