http://flagstaff.az.gov/planning/draftplan/index.htm



   [p_plugside.jpg]


   [nav_plan_chome.gif]
         City Home

                       Table of
                       Contents

                               Maps

                                    Public
                                   Hearings

                                            Submit
                                           Comments

                                                    2001
                                                   Report

                                                         [nav_plan_phome.gif]
                                                             Planning Home


   FLAGSTAFF AREA REGIONAL
   LAND USE AND TRANSPORTATION PLAN

   As the Vision 2020 process moves from concept to reality, the City of
   Flagstaff and Coconino County have taken on the responsibility of
   implementing the following Growth Management goals of Flagstaff 2020 A
   Vision for our Community:

    1. Managing and shaping growth in ways that preserve our region's
       natural environment, livability and sense of community.
    2. Developing and implementing a comprehensive transportation plan
       addressing both short- and long-term needs, and emphasizing
       alternative transportation modes.
    3. Promoting community design and employing design and standards that
       reflect the community's unique history, cultural, and natural and
       built environments.

   Vision 2020, completed in 1997, called for coordinated regional
   planning of our area's growth and development, transportation systems
   and open spaces. Following is the recently-developed Flagstaff Area
   Regional Land Use and Transportation Plan. It is an outgrowth of the
   goals in the 2020 Vision Plan. This Regional Plan of goals, policies
   and strategies sets a course to be followed as the region develops and
   grows. It was developed over the past 18 months with the guidance and
   advice of a task force appointed by the City Council and Board of
   Supervisors representative of a broad cross-section of city and county
   citizens.

   This Regional Plan is a plan for the region's future and what we want
   it to be. It provides guiding policies on how to get there and continue
   to be a community in which we want to live. The Plan focuses on the
   physical form and development pattern in the region. It also helps
   focus the community's resources on specific actions to meet the goals.
   With your help, through the open houses we have had, we have identified
   and assessed the changes that will be necessary to achieve our goals.

   The next step is to receive your input on this Plan. We suggest you
   study the Plan, then respond either through this site by clicking on
   the Request for Comments, or attending one of the upcoming public
   hearings (dates and locations listed on Public Hearing section). Of
   course, you can always contact us at the Planning Division (Ursula
   Montaño or Nan Johnson), City of Flagstaff, 211 West Aspen Avenue,
   Flagstaff, AZ 86001; or Coconino County Community Development
   Department (Bill Towler or Sue Pratt), 2500 North Fort Valley Road
   Building #1, Flagstaff, AZ 86001.

   Please be aware that dates and locations for public hearings may have
   to change so check the site for any updates. Comments will be received
   at all public hearings and to the time the City Council and County
   Board of Supervisors take final action on the plan.

   If your want to download the text, you may do so by section. The maps
   are at an 11"X17" size so if you are unable to print these, copies are
   available at Kinko's (1423 South Plaza Way) for purchase. You may also
   access the Plan via the City's Web Site at the City/County Library (300
   West Aspen Avenue) or at the NAU Cline Library. Hard copies are
   available at these locations, as well as City Hall and the County
   Community Development Department.

   This Plan is the most important planning project undertaken by the
   greater Flagstaff community. It will be used jointly by the City and
   the County to guide the development and protection of the lands in the
   region. We need your involvement if it is to be successful.


   City Home l Table of Contents l Maps l Public Hearings l Submit
      Comments | 1999 Draft Plan | 2001 Report l Planning Home
