http://flightprojects.msfc.nasa.gov/fd35.html


        Flight Projects logo
        FD 35
        Training and Crew Operations Group


   Home

   FD 30

        MISSION SUMMARY:

        The Training and Crew Operations Group (TCOG) analyzes requirements and
        develops plans for on-orbit experiment operation procedures by the
        flight crew, their experiment hardware status displays, and the
        training of International Space Station (ISS) flight and ground crews
        to support these science operations for U.S. payloads.  It also
        coordinates inclusion of ISS utilization training requirements for the
        International Partners.  Payload training is a joint effort between
        MSFC and JSC training organizations and requires close coordination
        with the JSC Astronaut Office.

        The TCOG/FD35 also provides certified flight controllers for staffing
        the Payload Communications Manager (Paycom) position that manages the
        payload space-to-ground voice communications for ISS payload operations
        at the ISS Payload Operations Center (POC) in Huntsville, Alabama.
        FD35 personnel also staff the Payload Operations Data File Support
        (PODF Support) position that provides on-call procedural expertise
        during payload experiments.


        RESPONSIBILITIES:

        The contributions that the Training and Crew Operations Group makes to
        ensure that the ISS will accomplish its mission goals include:

        Crew Training

        The ISS crews will operate science experiments onboard ISS. These are
        known as payloads. The crewmembers must receive extensive training
        prior to flight in order to serve as the onboard scientists for the
        payload development teams.

        The Crew Training Team is responsible for developing and implementing
        this training for US payloads. This process begins by determining what
        training requirements there are and what type of trainer or simulator
        is required to satisfy these training objectives for each payload.
        Trainers and/or simulators are built to functionally or physically
        simulate the crew interfaces so that crews can practice operations on
        the payloads when the flight units are not available.

        Once training requirements are defined, a team of instructors and
        payload developers set out on the task of developing the training
        courseware and simulators. Once these training products are verified,
        implementation can begin.

        Depending on the complexity of the mission, the ISS crews begin payload
        training as early as 18 months prior to flight. The majority of this
        training takes place in the Space Station Training Facility/Payload
        Training Capability or the Space Station Mockup Training Facility at
        Johnson Space Center.

        Once the payload training is complete, the crewmembers are ready to
        embark on an exciting and challenging task of conducting experiments in
        space.

        Ground Support Personnel Training

        Other training is required for all the persons that remain on the
        ground and support the immense effort to conduct laboratory operations
        under the unique conditions in orbit. The unique role that every person
        fills must be planned, lessons developed for their supporting roles,
        training tracked, and certification made that each person is capable of
        contributing their share to making the ISS expeditions work safely and
        successfully every time.

        Mission Simulations

        The TCOG constructs mission simulations to replicate conditions
        surrounding actual missions. The purpose is to train the scores of
        personnel involved to accomplish the exact series of tasks required for
        a specific mission to be successful. They are engineered for extreme
        realism and are intended to test all involved in real time
        problem-solving as well as routine operations. These take place under
        the most realistic conditions that can be reproduced and are life-like
        checks in the final stages of intensive training for mission success.

        Real-time, space to ground, payload communications management (PAYCOM)

        The TCOG is responsible for staffing this position on the Operations
        Control Team that is a part of the Cadre of personnel who conduct
        real-time operations (flight control team) at the ISS Payload
        Operations Center (POC). The PAYCOM is the single point of contact with
        the ISS crew for on-orbit payload operations being carried out during
        actual missions. The level of familiarity gained with the crew during
        the previous months of training prepares the PAYCOM for the unique
        rapport with the crew that is required to effectively carry out the
        array of tasks that they must accomplish in space in lieu of the ground
        scientists.

        International collaboration for standardized training

        The TCOG is responsible for reviewing and approving the payload
        training requirements and plans for the ISS Partners & Participants.
        This is done under the auspices of the Payload Training Panel (PTP) for
        which TCOG is co-chair under authority delegated by the International
        Training Control Board (ITCB). The PTP is chartered by the ITCB to
        include members from each Partner/Participant. The panel works to
        support the ITCB in assessing payload-training issues for the
        multinational effort.

        Payload Onboard Displays

        EXPRESS Display The Training and Crew Operations Group ensures
        operability of payload displays and procedures for onboard. It is
        critical that displays be designed in a task-oriented fashion to
        enhance overall usability, speed crew training, speed onboard crew
        activities, and prevent introduction of inadvertent errors. The
        rigorous application of Human Computer Interface standards, operations
        analysis, and crew review are used to achieve these ends.

        Integral to the evaluation is use of the Distributed Usability
        Evaluation Tools (DUET). Using the Internet, the DUET system is a
        combination of remote usability testing and wide area network
        communication tools for use by the Training and Crew Operations Group
        engineers, display developers, and reviewers. DUET allows review of
        crew displays by remote (i.e., distributed) evaluators from the initial
        prototype stage through final approval.

        Payload Operating Procedures

        The TCOG develops flight and ground procedures necessary for the
        operations of onboard systems. Training is provided to individual
        payload developers and flight controllers. This training teaches the
        procedure author how to apply standards and operations nomenclature as
        well as how to write clear, concise, and user (crew) friendly
        procedures.

        The majority of procedures used onboard the ISS will be viewed by the
        crew in an electronic format. Running on a laptop computer, the Manual
        Procedure Viewer (MPV) is the onboard software application used by the
        crew to view procedures.

                                 Sample FD33 Procedure

                                      MPV Example

         GOALS:
          * Prepare crewmembers and ground support personnel to safely and
            successfully install, activate, operate, and troubleshoot on orbit
            payloads.
          * Provide Payload Developers the necessary guidance to develop
            training, displays, and procedures, and conduct effective training
            for their payloads.
          * Satisfactorily serve the interests of all ISS International
            Partners for payload training planning and execution.
          * Demonstrate training excellence in preparing the ISS crew to be
            mission surrogates for the science teams while accomplishing
            payload and experiment execution.



   +
