http://ecfp.cadc.uscourts.gov/MS-Docs/1708/0.pdf

   Scheduled for Oral Argument on February 26 and 27, 2001 IN THE UNITED
   STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA CIRCUIT Nos.
   00-5212 & 00-5213 (Consolidated) UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
   Plaintiff-Appellee, v. MICROSOFT CORPORATION, Defendant-Appellant.
   ----------------------------------------------------------- STATE OF
   NEW YORK, ex rel., et al., Plaintiffs-Appellees, v. MICROSOFT
   CORPORATION, Defendant-Appellant.
   ----------------------------------------------------------- On Appeal
   from the United States District Court for the District of Columbia
   MOTION OF CARL LUNDGREN TO SUGGEST A THIRD PERSPECTIVE ON THE ALLEGED
   BIAS AND ALLEGED MISCONDUCT OF THE DISTRICT COURT JUDGE 1. Scope of
   Motion. The Appeals Court has announced a schedule for oral argument
   which indicates how seriously the Court views the allegations that the
   District Court Judge may have been biased, or otherwise engaged in
   misconduct. I set forth below an alternative hypothesis concerning the
   Judge's motivations, and possible direction of bias. This motion has
   two main sections: "Reasons to Accept this Motion" and "Substance of
   Third Perspective". REASONS TO ACCEPT THIS MOTION 2. Importance and
   Abnormality of Issue. Allegations of judicial bias cut to the heart of
   the Court system, and affect public confidence in the integrity and
   trustworthiness of judges and courts. Microsoft's allegations of
   judicial bias have no direct relevance to the actual merits of this
   case, but only go to the "merits" of the Judge presiding over the case.
   The presence of these allegations in this case is an unusual and
   abnormal situation. The District Judge's extra- judicial comments were
   not part of the trial record below. The Judge's comments present a
   factual issue which is being argued here de novo. Hence, amici who
   direct their attention to the various actual merits of the case, would
   not normally address the issue of judicial bias in the limited space of
   their briefs; nor did they. 3. Plaintiffs' Analysis Was Incomplete.
   This amicus presumed that the Plaintiffs, in their 150-page brief,
   would provide an adequate response to the allegations of bias. However,
   Plaintiffs failed to argue, 1) the Constitutional implications of
   forbidding a Judge to speak to the press, and 2) the issue of possible
   bias in favor of Microsoft. It may well be that the Department of
   Justice failed to see the relevance of the Constitutional issue, and so
   did not argue it. Likewise, the DOJ may not wish to raise the second
   point, given that the Judge has granted all their requests so far. 4.
   Timing of this Motion. This motion is provided to the parties two weeks
   in advance of the scheduled oral argument. This should give the parties
   and the Court adequate time to respond to or incorporate its points
   during oral argument. Nor was it possible for this non- attorney amicus
   to judge the adequacy of Plaintiff's brief on these points, until after
   Microsoft had filed its reply brief on January 29, 2001 (two weeks
   ago). Hence, this motion has been filed as expeditiously as possible
   under the circumstances. 2 SUBSTANCE OF THIRD PERSPECTIVE 5. Alleged
   Bias Against Microsoft. Microsoft has alleged that the public comments
   of Judge Jackson, both to news reporters and otherwise, constitute
   evidence of bias against Microsoft. These allegations are as
   interesting as they are unlikely. They also have a man-bites- dog
   quality. Mr. Jackson is a Reagan-appointed, Republican Judge who (if we
   believe Microsoft) has inexplicably, and with malice in his heart,
   attempted to take a great big bite out of a very successful business
   corporation. Such bias is possible, and very interesting if true, but
   unlikely. Instead, Mr. Jackson has repeatedly said that he has nothing
   but admiration for the technology, products, and general business
   leadership of Microsoft. Certainly, Microsoft has provided no reason to
   believe that Mr. Jackson harbored any ill-will or bias against
   Microsoft before the case began. To be sure, during the course of
   trial, Mr. Jackson did develop some opinions and conclusions about the
   individuals running Microsoft, and their attitude towards obeying the
   antitrust laws. However, such opinions and conclusions are not bias, if
   they are reasonably based on the evidence which came to his attention.
   So much for Mr. Jackson's words; what of his actions? Mr. Jackson has
   shown considerable imagination in creating a legal environment within
   which, if Microsoft had availed itself of the opportunity, Microsoft
   might settle this case out of Court. Even though it is not common
   practice to do so, Judge Jackson separated his findings of facts from
   his conclusions of law, so that Microsoft could be granted a few months
   within which to negotiate a possible settlement. Moreover, even though
   it was virtually unheard of, he requested a sitting Federal Judge, the
   reknowned antitrust scholar Richard Posner, to act as a mediator
   between the two sides. If Judge Jackson had not taken these
   extraordinary steps, no one would have faulted him for not doing so.
   That he did take such steps, and showed considerable imagination in
   doing so, suggests rather strongly that he was not biased against
   Microsoft. 6. Extra-Judicial Comments. Microsoft alleges that Judge
   Jackson, in his extra- 3 judicial comments, has violated the Judicial
   Conference's "Code of Conduct of United States Judges".1 I express no
   opinion as to whether such speech by a Federal Judge constitutes a
   violation of the Code. However, supposing that such speech is a
   violation of the Code, it may well be the Code (or its interpretation)
   which is at fault. Under the First Amendment, Congress (and presumably
   the Judicial Conference) may not abridge the freedom of speech, or of
   the press. Basically, Microsoft has accused Judge Jackson of speaking
   to the press. Unless there is a compelling state interest to prevent
   this speech to the press, it may not be forbidden, and the Courts may
   not enforce such an improper Code provision. Suppose, hypothetically,
   that Judge Jackson were taken before a disciplinary hearing.
   Presumably, Mr. Jackson (or his attorneys) would raise the First
   Amendment as a defense for his conduct. Mr. Jackson could persuasively
   argue that his speech on the Microsoft case involved matters of great
   public interest and importance; moreover, he could argue that the
   public has a great need to understand the workings of judicial process
   and judicial decision making, insights which only a sitting judge can
   provide. This does not mean that Judge Jackson would necessarily win
   his cause. However, unless it can be shown that there already exists a
   recent, quite definitive, and controlling legal decision that shows
   otherwise, a First Amendment argument has potential merit. Mr. Jackson
   is presumably aware of this, and may have taken a calculated risk which
   could result in a precedent-setting case concerning the free-speech
   rights of Federal judges. We cannot infer ill-motivation or bias,
   simply because Judge Jackson spoke to the press, even if doing so
   (allegedly) is a violation of a judicial Code of ethics. 7. Bias in
   Favor of Microsoft? If we were to play the odds, we would predict that
   a Reagan-appointed, Republican judge is far more likely to be biased in
   favor of Microsoft, than against Microsoft; and far more likely to be
   in favor of loose or no enforcement of antitrust laws. 1The relevant
   provision, Canon 3A(6) states only, "A judge should [not must] avoid
   public comment on the merits of a pending or impending action..." 175
   F.R.D. 363 (1998) at 367 or 368 [variously cited at MS Br. 146 and Pls.
   Br. 148]. 4 Indeed, some of the Judge's comments suggest as much,
   particularly on the issue of remedy. As Microsoft quoted on page 127 of
   its initial brief, Judge Jackson allegedly said: I am not at all
   comfortable with restructuring the company. I am not sure I am
   competent to do that. Microsoft is a large and important company,
   innovative, admirable in a lot of ways. If it ain't broken, don't try
   to fix it. And it is an engine for the nation's economy. I just don't
   think that is something I want to try to do on my own.2 To be sure, if
   Judge Jackson is biased in favor of Microsoft, it has not prevented him
   from convicting Microsoft on antitrust violations. If this bias has not
   yet affected the choice of remedy, it is because the Judge gave
   seemingly undue deference to the Plaintiff's proposed remedy, and
   refused to hold evidentiary hearings. If this case were to be remanded
   to District Court for purposes of holding remedy proceedings (whether
   or not they include third parties), the issue of possible bias in favor
   of Microsoft would presumably be ripe for review and possible
   disqualification. 8. What to Do? Microsoft's allegations raise two
   distinct issues: 1) Did Judge Jackson violate a judicial Code of
   Conduct by speaking to the press? 2) Do Judge Jackson's comments
   evidence bias of any kind (if so, to what extent and in which
   direction)? The answers to these questions are logically distinct. It
   is possible to answer yes, he violated the Code, but no, he showed no
   evidence of bias. It is also possible to answer no, he did not violate
   the Code, but yes, his comments evidence bias, or the appearance of
   bias. And of course, the answer may be yes to both questions, or no to
   both questions. Strictly speaking, this case requires an answer only to
   the second question. An answer to the first question is necessary only
   to the extent it may be necessary to establish motive. The second
   question is a fact question, which presumably must be resolved or
   reviewed by this Court as part of its decision in this case. If there
   is no evidence of bias against Microsoft, the case may proceed on its
   merits: Findings of fact are reviewed for clear error; conclusions of
   law are 2Joel Brinkley & Steve Lohr, U.S. v. Microsoft (2000), pp.
   277-278. 5 reviewed de novo. If there is evidence of bias against
   Microsoft, portions (or all) of the judgement may need to be vacated
   and remanded to a different judge. I do not know the proper procedure
   for analyzing allegations of bias. Perhaps it is this Court, sitting en
   banc, which decides the matter; or perhaps only a committee of this
   Court or the District Court; or some other procedure. If there is no
   required procedure, perhaps a Committee of Judges from separate Courts
   would be best. Regardless of the procedure, these allegations require a
   careful review of the facts and full context of the Judge's comments.
   For this purpose, I suggest that all evidence concerning the public
   comments, possessed by the parties, be sent to whichever Court or
   Committee is assigned to review this question of bias. The reviewing
   Committee or Court should then determine whether, to what extent, and
   in which direction bias may exist. CONCLUSION Accordingly, I
   respectfully request that the Court and the parties discuss this third
   perspective during oral argument, or in any other appropriate forum or
   manner. Respectfully submitted. ___________________________________
   Carl Lundgren Valmarpro Antitrust 5035 South 25th Street Arlington, VA
   22206-1057 (703) 933-1967 (home) (703) 235-1910 (work)
   Lundgren@valmarpro.com (E-mail) February 12, 2001 6 CERTIFICATE OF
   SERVICE Service of the foregoing Motion of Carl Lundgren to Suggest a
   Third Perspective on the Alleged Bias and Alleged Misconduct of the
   District Court Judge was made by sending one copy each, in a sealed
   envelope, postage fully prepaid, addressed to: Bradley P. Smith (by
   hand only) Sullivan & Cromwell 1701 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., 8th
   Floor Washington, DC 20006-5805 John L. Warden Sullivan & Cromwell 125
   Broad Street New York, NY 10004-2498 William H. Neukom, Sr. Vice
   President Law & Corporate Affairs Microsoft Corporation One Microsoft
   Way Redmond, WA 98052-8300 A. Douglas Melamed Antitrust Division U.S.
   Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, DC
   20530 Catherine G. O'Sullivan (by hand only) Chief, Appellate Section
   U.S. Department of Justice 601 D Street, N.W., Room 10536 Washington,
   DC 20530 Phillip R. Malone Antitrust Division U.S. Department of
   Justice 325 Seventh Street, N.W., Suite 615 Washington, DC 20530
   Richard L. Schwartz Deputy Chief, Antitrust Bureau New York State
   Attorney General's Office 120 Broadway, Suite 2601 New York, NY
   10271-0332 Kevin J. O'Connor Wisconsin Attorney General's Office 123
   West Washington Avenue Madison, WI 53703-7957 Christine Rosso Chief,
   Antitrust Bureau Illinois Attorney General's Office 100 West Randolph
   Street, 13th Floor Chicago, IL 60601 Lars H. Liebeler Thaler Liebeler
   Machado & Rasmussen LLP 600 Fourteenth Street, N.W., Suite 600
   Washington, DC 20005-2004 Donald Manwell Falk Mayer Brown & Platt 1909
   K Street, N.W. Washington, DC 20006-1101 Randall J. Boe America Online,
   Inc. 22000 AOL Way Dulles, VA 20166 Lee A. Hollaar University of Utah
   School of Computing 50 S. Central Campus Drive, Room 3190 Salt Lake
   City, UT 84112-9205 Robert H. Bork 1150 17th Street, N.W. Washington,
   DC 20036 Edward J. Black Computer & Communications Industry Association
   666 Eleventh Avenue, N.W., Suite 600 Washington, DC 20001 Laura Bennett
   Peterson 700 New Hampshire Avenue, N.W., Suite 520 Washington, DC
   20037-2406 Robert S. Getman P.O. Box 8697 New York, NY 10001 David R.
   Burton, CMDC 333 N. Fairfax Street, Suite 302 Alexandria, VA 22314-2632
   Louis R. Cohen Wilmer Cutler & Pickering 2445 M Street, N.W.
   Washington, DC 20037-1420 and deposited in the United States Mail by
   the undersigned this 12th day of February, 2001.
   ___________________________________ Carl Lundgren, Valmarpro Antitrust
