http://topex.wff.nasa.gov/docs/docs.html



                                    NASA

   [space20.gif]
   WFF topex

                                    Home

                                    About

                                  Documents

                                    Data

                                 Other Sites

                                      o

                                Today's Data

                               Range Stability

                               Sigma-0 Blooms

                               Side B Testing

                                      o

                                   Working
                               (WFF Internal)

                                      o

                                   WFF GFO

                                  WFF GLAS

                                  OSB Home

                                  WFF Home

                                      o

                                Mail Hancock

   [space20.gif]

                               TOPEX Documents

   This page is an index of TOPEX documents generated by WFF. WFF TOPEX
   documents (for the most part) are distributed in Adobe PDF format. A
   free PDF reader for Mac, Unix, and Windows systems can be found at
   www.adobe.com. The documents are listed in reverse chronological order.


      Comments on TOPEX High-Rate SSH Estimates in the Vicinity of the
      Corsica and Harvest Platform Verification Sites
      G. S. Hayne, October 17, 2001 (PDF/135K)
   Abstract : At several TOPEX/Poseidon Science Working Team meetings
   there have been reports of observations from a verification site at
   Ajaccio in Corsica which is overflown by pass 085 in each data cycle;
   these reports indicated that TOPEX high-rate (10 per second) sea
   surface height (SSH) data showed unusual range oscillations or
   "ringing". In this paper we examine pass 085 data from nearly three
   dozen TOPEX cycles to try to understand the effect. We conclude that
   the ringing is a consequence of the "sigma0 bloom", a condition of
   anomalously high apparent ocean surface radar backscattering. Data
   editing to remove sigma0 bloom-contaminated data will remove much of
   the apparent ringing in Corsica verification passes, but such editing
   will remove much of the data as well. We also examine high-rate SSH
   data for the verification site at the Harvest platform off the
   California coast. It is expected that the Harvest platform will have a
   higher fraction of good passes because the altimeter approaches the
   platform from over open ocean, whereas the Sardinia-to-Corsica passes
   come off land at Sardinia and traverse relatively shallow and protected
   water before going back overland at Corsica. We do find relatively
   fewer problem passes at Harvest than at Corsica.

   TOPEX Side B Sigma0 Calibration Table Adjustments: September 2001
   Update
   G.S. Hayne and D.W. Hancock III, October 12, 2001,(PDF/105K)
   Abstract : An earlier document ("TOPEX Side B Sigma0 Calibration Table
   Adjustments: February 2001 Update", G.S. Hayne and D.W. Hancock III,
   February 15, 2001) described the TOPEX Side B Sigma0 Calibration Table
   and its corrections from cycle 236, the first Side B cycle, through
   cycle 305. Those corrections were based on AGC trends in TOPEX
   Calibration Mode 1. There is now indication that the C-band altimeter
   sigma0 trends are departing from the the C-band Cal Mode AGC trend, and
   the Side B calibration table adjustments are now based on the sigma0
   tends as was done for TOPEX Side A (as summarized in ¦TOPEX Sigma0
   Calibration Table History for All Side A Data², G.S. Hayne and D.W.
   Hancock III, July 27, 1999). This September 2001 update document
   describes line-segment trend fits to the Side B sigma0 data from cycles
   236 through 329. These trend fits provide our current best estimates of
   calibration values for the Side B data, and we supply a table of
   additive adjustments which can be applied to the already distributed
   Side B sigma0 values.

   Assessment of the Cycle-Per-Cycle Noise Level of the GEOSAT Follow-On,
   TOPEX, and POSEIDON Altimeters
   Ngan Tran/Raytheon ITSS, D.W. Hancock III/NASA GSFC, G.S. Hayne/NASA
   GSFC, D.W. Lockwood/Raytheon ITSS, D.Vandemark/NASA GSFC, M.L. Driscoll
   and R.V. Sailor/Litton TASC.
   Submittal for Journal of Atmospheric and Oceanic Technology, September
   20, 2001 (PDF/567K).

   Satellite/Sensors Performance Characteristics Workshop #10 Presentation
   D.W. Lockwood, D. W. Hancock III et al, July 25, 2001k (PDF/3MB).
   Abstract : This is the presentation package WFF supplied for the TOPEX
   Satellite/Sensors Performance Characteristics Workshop #10 presented at
   JPL on July 25, 2001.

   TOPEX Radar Altimeter Engineering Assessment Report Update: Side B
   Turn-On to January 1, 2001
   Hancock et al, June 2001, (PDF/4.6MB)
   Abstract : This is the eighth in a series of TOPEX Mission Radar
   Altimeter Assessment Reports. The initial Assessment Report, in
   February 1994, presented performance results for the NASA Radar
   Altimeter on the TOPEX/POSEIDON spacecraft, from its launch in August
   1992 to February 1994. Supplemental Engineering Assessment Reports were
   issued in March 1995, May 1996, March 1997, June 1998, and again in
   August 1999 which updated the performance results. The August 1999
   report included all of 1998 and the first 41 days of 1999 after which
   the TOPEX Side A altimeter was turned off. Due to indications of
   evolving change in the altimeter's point target response, Side-A was
   turned off on February 10, 1999. Side B was turned on to Track mode for
   the first time on the next day, February 11, 1999. The seventh
   supplement is the initial Assessment Report to document the performance
   of the TOPEX Side B altimeter, encompassing the time period from Side B
   turn-on to the end of 1999. This report extends the performance
   assessment of Side B to the end of calendar year 2000.

   Latest Altimeter Range Stability Estimate Update
   HTML, Approx. 25K, G. S. Hayne, October 17, 2001 (Updated regularly)
   Abstract : Range bias changes for the NASA radar altimeter of the
   TOPEX/POSEIDON mission were described in the article "TOPEX Altimeter
   Range Stability Estimates from Calibration Mode Data", by G.S. Hayne,
   D.W. Hancock III, and C.L. Purdy, in TOPEX/POSEIDON Research News, JPL
   410-42, Issue 3, pp. 18-22, October 1994. Reported here are the
   additional bias change results to date. See the October 1994 article
   for a further description of the measurements and methods.

   TOPEX Side B Sigma0 Calibration Table Adjustments: February 2001 Update
   Hayne and Hancock, February 15, 2001, (PDF/503K).
   Abstract : This document describes the TOPEX Side B Sigma0 Calibration
   Table and its corrections from cycle 236, the first Side B cycle,
   through cycle 305. The TOPEX Side B sigma0 trends suggest that the Side
   B sigma0 calibration table entries can be based on trends in AGC
   measurements in the TOPEX Calibration Mode 1. In addition to listing
   the calibration table values applied to Side B TOPEX data cycles 236 -
   305, we provide results of Calibration Mode 1 AGC trend fits to Side B
   cycles 236 - 305. These trend fits provide our current best estimates
   of calibration values for the Side B data, and we supply a table of
   additive adjustments which can be applied to the already-distributed
   Side B sigma0 values.

   Satellite Altimeter Models for Surface Wind Speed Developed Using Ocean
   Satellite Crossovers
   PDF 1926k,,
   PS 3770k,, J. Gourrion, D. Vandemark, S. Bailey, B. Chapron, May 17,
   2000
   Abstract : A large global compilation of altimeter and scatterometer
   satellite crossover samples is used to address altimeter wind speed
   inversion. The emphasis here is altimeter wind error due to sea state
   impacts. Numerous past studies have suggested that long-scale gravity
   waves, which do not adjust to wind as quickly as the short
   gravity-capillary waves, have a measurable influence on interpretation
   of altimeter returns in terms of wind speed. This hypothesis is
   affirmed here. TOPEX altimeter operational wind speed estimates are
   compared with NSCAT-derived surface winds to show a clear correlation
   between altimeter wind error and the TOPEX-derived significant wave
   height (SWH) estimate. This observation holds for both the C and
   Ku-band frequencies of TOPEX. Candidate empirical algorithms using both
   altimeter backscatter and wave height estimates are then developed to
   remove the observed average significant wave height signature from
   altimeter-derived wind speeds. These algorithms are developed for
   global application and validated using numerous independent sources to
   confirm that slight but statistically-significant global error
   reductions (e.g. 10-15 % reduction in rms error) are obtained. An
   algorithm for potential operational use is proposed and detailed.

   Our study indicates that inclusion of the altimeter's wave height
   parameter provides limited additional improvement to the point-to-point
   accuracy of the wind speed estimates. This finding is consistent with
   the understanding that SWH is a crude descriptor for the complexities
   of actual gravity wave conditions where some mix of sea and swell is
   nearly always in evidence.

   The suite of altimeter algorithms (C and Ku-band) presented here may
   aid global climate studies and refinement of other satellite sensor or
   numerical model wind estimates. They should also serve to improve our
   present understanding of the electromagnetic range bias phenomenon that
   corrupts altimetric sea surface topography measurements.

   Satellite/Sensors Performance Characteristics Workshop #9 Presentation
   PDF, 5.2MB, Hancock et al, August 8, 2000.
   Abstract : This is the presentation package WFF supplied for the TOPEX
   Satellite/Sensors Performance Characteristics Workshop #9 presented at
   JPL on August 8, 2000.

   TOPEX Radar Altimeter Engineering Assessment Report Update: Side B
   Turn-On to January 1, 2000
   PDF, 4.4MB, Hancock et al, September 2000
   Abstract : This is the seventh in a series of TOPEX Mission Radar
   Altimeter Assessment Reports. The initial Assessment Report, in
   February 1994, presented performance results for the NASA Radar
   Altimeter on the TOPEX/POSEIDON spacecraft, from its launch in August
   1992 to February 1994. There have been supplemental Engineering
   Assessment Reports, issued in March 1995, May 1996, March 1997, June
   1998, and again in August 1999 which updated the performance results.
   The August 1999 report included all of 1998 and the first 41 days of
   1999 after which the TOPEX Side A altimeter was turned off. Due to
   indications of evolving change in the altimeter's point target
   response, Side-A was turned off on February 10, 1999. [Side A could be
   turned back on if dictated by future events.] Side B was turned on to
   Track mode for the first time on the next day, February 11, 1999. This
   seventh supplement is the initial Assessment Report to document the
   performance of the TOPEX Side B altimeter, encompassing the time period
   from Side B turn-on to the end of 1999.

   WFF TOPEX Software Documentation, Volume 6, Revision A - Special
   Processing
   PDF, 19.1MB, J. Lee/Raytheon, D. Lockwood/Raytheon, September 2000

   TOPEX Radar Altimeter Engineering Assessment Report Update: From Launch
   to Turn-off of Side A on February 10, 1999
   PDF, 5.8 MB, Hancock et al, August 1999
   Abstract : The initial TOPEX Mission Radar Altimeter Engineering
   Assessment Report, in February 1994, presented performance results for
   the NASA Radar Altimeter on the TOPEX/POSEIDON spacecraft, from the
   time of its launch in August 1992 to February 1994. Since that time,
   there have been four interim supplemental Engineering Assessment
   Reports, issued in March 1995, May 1996, March 1997, and again in June
   1998 which updated the performance results to the end of calendar years
   1994, 1995, 1996, and 1997, respectively. All the assessment reports
   have presented results of the Side-A altimeter on the spacecraft. Due
   to indications of an evolving change in the altimeters point target
   response, Side-A was turned off on February 10, 1999. [Side-A could be
   turned back on if dictated by future events.] Side-B was turned on to
   Track mode the next day, on February 11, 1999. This fifth supplement
   updates the altimeter performance to the turnoff date of Side-A, and
   describes significant events that occurred since the beginning of 1998.
   As the performance data base has expanded, and as analysis tools and
   techniques continue to evolve, the longer-term trends of the altimeter
   data have become more apparent. The updated findings are presented
   here.

   TOPEX Sigma0 Calibration Table History for All Side A Data
   PDF, 248K, Hayne and Hancock, July 27, 1999
   Abstract : Throughout the TOPEX/Poseidon mission, we have been
   conducting performance analysis and engineering assessment for that
   mission's NASA radar altimeter, hereafter referred to simply as the
   TOPEX altimeter. Among the TOPEX altimeter's output products are
   estimates of the ocean surface's normalized backscattering cross
   section (designated sigma0 for typographical convenience). After almost
   four years of TOPEX data, calibration changes in the TOPEX Ku- and
   C-band sigma0 estimation were described in the paper "TOPEX Sigma0
   Calibration Table and its Updates", by G. S. Hayne and D. W. Hancock,
   March 14, 1997, hereafter referred to as HH97. The results in HH97 were
   for the TOPEX Side A which was operated from launch through end of
   January 1999. In February 1999 the TOPEX altimeter was switched to its
   Side B at the beginning of cycle 236, and continues to operate in Side
   B through the present time. This paper is intended as an update to and
   a replacement for HH97, and is intended to act as a single-document
   description of calibration changes for all of the Side A data from
   cycles 001 through 235 (which ended on 09 February 1999). In addition
   to listing the calibration table values applied to each TOPEX data
   cycle in the Side A operation, we provide results of a sigma0 trend fit
   to the entire Side A over-ocean data set; this is our current best
   estimate of calibration values which should have been applied to Side A
   data.

   WFF TOPEX Software Documentation, Volume 1 - Overview
   PDF, 212K, R. Brooks/Raytheon, J. Lee/Raytheon, May 1999

   Observations from Long-Term Performance Monitoring of the TOPEX Radar
   Altimeter
   PDF,1.9 MB, Hayne et al, December 10, 1998.
   Abstract : Observations from Long-Term Performance Monitoring of the
   TOPEX Radar Altimeter is a poster presentation WFF supplied for the
   1998 Fall AGU Meeting held in San Francisco on December 10, 1998.

   1998 TOPEX/Poseidon/Jason-1 Science Working Team Meeting
   PDF, 1MB, Hayne et al, October 13, 1998.
   Abstract : Observations from Long-Term Performance Monitoring of the
   TOPEX Radar Altimeter is a poster presentation WFF supplied for the
   TOPEX/Poseidon/Jason-1 Science Working Team Meeting at Keystone,
   Colorado on October 13, 1998.

   WFF TOPEX Software Documentation, Volume 4 - SDR Processing
   PDF, 2.4MB, J. Lee/Raytheon, D. Lockwood/Raytheon, October 1998

   WFF TOPEX Software Documentation, Volume 5 - GDR Processing
   PDF, 2.3MB, J. Lee/Raytheon, D. Lockwood/Raytheon, October 1998

   Land Effects on TOPEX Radar Altimeter Measurements in Pacific Rim
   Coastal Zones
   PDF, 479K, Ron Brooks et al, August 1997
   Abstract : Satellite radar altimetry is potentially a very useful tool
   for remote sensing in support of Pacific Rim coastal zone management.
   Just as in the open ocean, the altimeter data in the coastal zone can
   provide valuable information on wave heights, structure of the geoid
   (and the associated gravity field), and dynamic sea surface topography
   resulting from tides, winds, currents, and atmospheric pressure.
   Because of this wealth of information, oceanographers seek to extend
   the use of altimeter data to the shoreline. Users of the altimeter
   measurements in the coastal zones need to be aware, however, that
   measurement quality may be affected by land when a satellite
   groundtrack is within a few kilometers of land. It is shown that
   waveform retracking can extend the altimeter-derived sea surface
   topography several kilometers shoreward.

   TOPEX Sigma0 Calibration Table and its Updates
   PDF 161K, Hayne and Hancock, March 14 1997
   Abstract : From launch and continuing throughout the life of the
   TOPEX/Poseidon mission, our group at Wallops Flight Facility (WFF) has
   been conducting performance analysis and engineering assessment for the
   TOPEX/Poseidon mission's NASA radar altimeter, hereafter referred to
   simply as the TOPEX altimeter. Among the TOPEX altimeter's output
   products are estimates of the ocean surface's normalized backscattering
   cross section (designated as sigma0, for typographical convenience). We
   have earlier described calibration changes for the TOPEX altimeter Ku-
   and C-band sigma0 estimates in Callahan et al. [1994]. After more than
   two years of additional TOPEX data we reexamine the sigma0 calibration
   issue, and this report is intended as an update and replacement for the
   earlier paper.

   Error in TOPEX Oscillator Drift Correction
   HTML, 16K, Hancock and Hayne, July 10 1996
   Abstract : An error was called to our attention in the TOPEX Algorithm
   S1034 which corrects altimeter data for oscillator drift. We have
   confirmed the additive height correction should have been delta height
   = [ (Rutc/Rref) - 1]*H, where H is the uncorrected height estimate,
   Rutc is the measured spacecraft clock interval, and Rref is the nominal
   spacecraft clock interval. In the current S1034 (used in the original
   processing of all TOPEX data through cycle 132) however, the expression
   (Rutc/Rref) was erroneously inverted. The Rutc and Rref are very close
   in values (parts in 10^8), therefore the upside down division
   effectively gives a change in sign to the correction.

   Radar Backscattering Cross-Section Monitoring in the Simpson Desert
   PDF, 453K, Hancock et al, April 1995
   Abstract : The radar surface backscattering coefficient, s 0 , is a
   measure, in dB, of surface radar reflectivity. It is sometimes referred
   to as sigma-naught or sigma-zero. In the processing of open-ocean NASA
   radar altimeter data, s 0 values are used to compute surface wind
   speeds, where higher s 0 are indicative of lower wind speeds, and
   vice-versa. The derived wind speeds are, in turn, used in conjunction
   with significant waveheights to calculate electromagnetic (EM) biases.

   Passive Microwave Radiation Effects on Cal-2 Measurements
   PDF, 143K, Hancock et al, April 1995
   Abstract : The TOPEX radar altimeter's Calibration Mode 2 measurements
   of receiver noise have exhibited more variation, calibration-to-
   calibration, during the flight (on-orbit) mission than was evident
   during the ground testing. The calibration mode assesses adequately the
   launch-to-date calibration trends, but the signal variations about
   these trends have remained a matter of curiosity. We have concluded
   that during this calibration submode the receiver is sensitive to
   passive microwave radiation from the Earth's surface. The level of
   received radiation is observed to vary, depending on the type of
   terrain at nadir during each calibration.

   WFF TOPEX Software Documentation, Volume 3 - Altimeter Instrument File
   (AIF) Processing
   PDF, 4.1MB, Lee and Lockwood, February 24 1995
   Abstract : This document is a compendium of the WFF TOPEX Software
   Development Team's knowledge regarding Altimeter Instrument File (AIF)
   Processing. It includes many elements of a Requirements Document, a
   Software Specification Document, a Software Design Document, and User's
   Manual. In the more technical sections, this document assumes the
   reader is familiar with TOPEX and Instrument files.

   Altimeter Range Stability Estimates from Calibration Mode Data
   PDF, 83K, Hayne et al, November 1994
   Abstract : From launch and continuing through the life of the mission
   our group in the Observational Science Branch at the Wallops Flight
   Facility (WFF) has been conducting performance analysis and engineering
   assessment for the NASA radar altimeter of TOPEX/ POSEIDON (hereafter
   referred to as the TOPEX altimeter). We report here the results to date
   for estimation of range bias changes for the TOPEX altimeter based on
   data from its internal calibration mode.

   Note on Use of Altimeter Data from the First 8 Data Cycles
   PDF, 24K, Hancock and Hayne, April 1994
   Abstract : Investigators should use the NASA radar altimeter (ALT) data
   products for the first 8 data cycles only with great care. There are
   number of reasons for this. These early cycles had numerous switches
   between ALT and SSALT, several spacecraft (S/C) safeholds, and a series
   of attitude calibration maneuvers. The amount of ALT data available for
   these early cycles varies, but all of the cycles 1 - 8 have
   significantly less data than the normal later cycles.
     __________________________________________________________________

   [esplogow.gif] [wffhome.gif] [gsfchome.gif] [mininasa.gif] NASA IT
   Security Warning
   Observational Science Branch; Laboratory for Hydrospheric Processes
   NASA GSFC/Wallops Flight Facility, Wallops Island VA USA
   NASA Official 972/David W. Hancock, III
   Maintained by Raytheon/Jeff Lee
