http://fire.pppl.gov/japan_cstp_dec01.pdf

   Please find the informal translation by Tomoko of the report given by
   Mr. Omi and the Knowledgeable Members of the Council of Science &
   Technology Policy which was submitted and discussed at the Council of
   Science & Technology Policy chaired by Prime Minister on 25 December,
   2001. Mr. Koizumi as well as Ministers of MEXT and Finance have well
   understood the contents. The Viewpoint for ITER Project (submitted to
   the Council of Science and Technology Policy) 25 December, 2001
   Minister in charge of Science and Technology Knowledgeable Members of
   the Council (only the main part of the report is translated) Based on
   the above understanding, from the view point of science and technology
   policies, the Minister in charge of Science and Technology (Omi) and
   the knowledgeable Members of the Council have investigated the
   participation to ITER Project and, furthermore, siting ITER Project by
   our country since the Meeting held in last June. The point of issue
   have been extracted and research and investigation have been proceeded
   by reviewing the contents investigated by the Nuclear Energy
   Commission, visiting the domestic fusion facilities and site candidates
   and hearing from the experts. With regard to the participation to ITER
   Project, varieties of opinions have been given, especially good or
   wrong to site ITER, however, now the viewpoint has been concluded and
   we report it as follows. We would like to request to make the final
   decision on the participation to and/or siting ITER Project at the next
   or later Council of Science and Technology Policy based on the actual
   situation of the other countries and the result of the Negotiations
   Meeting scheduled for January next year. 1. Quite a long time is still
   foreseen to put fusion power generation in practical use, however, ITER
   Project is at present the best possible selection for research and
   development to ensure the realisation of fusion power generation such
   as realisation of fusion plasma self burning and the comprehensive
   tests for reactor engineering technology. If ITER Project makes good
   progress the accumulation of a great deal of information and knowledge
   is anticipated, useful for the future fusion power generation. It is
   considered to be quite meaningful that ITER Project is implemented as
   an international project with its cost shared among the participating
   countries and the results to be possessed jointly. With regard to the
   accumulated results profitable for science and technology of our
   country, if we participate to ITER Project, in addition to share the
   research results, technical acquirement is anticipated through joint
   provision of the materials and seconding researchers. Furthermore, in
   case of siting ITER Project the international centre of fusion research
   is formed in Japan and lot more technology will be accumulated and
   personnel will be reared compared to the mere participation. As the
   results the basis of the future fusion power generation could be formed
   in access. Moreover, through the greatest contribution among the
   participating countries our country's sincere attitude, endeavouring to
   solve the energy issues. On the other hand, the site country owes
   considerable amount of cost and responsibilities for safety assurance
   and the waste management compared to the mere participation.
   Nevertheless, if we intend to take a leading part in fusion power
   generation in the future the results acquired from siting is considered
   to be quite big. It will be possible that the cost necessary for the
   participation to and/or siting ITER Project will be secured within the
   nuclear research budget by expanding the science and technology related
   expenses which are presented at the 2nd period science and technology
   basic programme. The Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science
   and Technology (Toyama), in charge of ITER Project, should take a
   responsible measure in budgets so as not to exert influences on other
   important fields. Taking the above into consideration, the Minister in
   charge of Science and Technology and the Knowledgeable Members of the
   Council have judged that the ITER Project participation of our country
   is desirable and furthermore, its siting is meaningful. 2. It is
   appropriate that the government faces the governmental negotiation
   bearing the siting of ITER Project based on the above viewpoint. The
   governmental negotiation should endeavour to form a well-balanced
   framework for cost-sharing and for responsibilities among the
   participating countries and make best efforts so as not to do damage to
   national interests. At the same time, it is necessary to make efforts
   to gain the national consensus for the significance of ITER Project. It
   will be appropriate that the government should make the final decision
   on the participation and/or siting from this comprehensive viewpoint.
