http://www.pueblo.gsa.gov/call/locating_individuals.htm


     Image of Federal Consumer Information Center star linking to the
   Federal Consumer Information Center web site
   Red button linking to National Contact Center's home page
   Red button linking to the Consumer Action Handbook
   Red button linking to www.kids.gov page
   Red button linking to the federal phone directories page
   Red button linking to the toll free phone directories page

                               Popular Topics
   Congress
   Consumer Topics
   Recalls
   Freedom of Information Act
   Federal Employment
   Privacy Act
   Medicare and Medicaid
   Federal Grants
   Federal Loans
   Savings Bonds
   Government Publications
   The Draft
   Finding Military Personnel
   Social Security
   Passports/Travel Abroad
   Workplace Issues
   Presidential Greetings
   Order a Flag

     Image linking to FirstGov "Your first click to the U.S. Government"
                               Text Version
                                 Site Map
                              Privacy Policy
                            Security Statement

   Title bar linking to National Contact Center's home page.

                         Finding Military Personnel

    | Military Locator Service | Army | Navy | Air Force | Marine Corps |
         | Locating Private Individuals | IRS | SSA | Salvation Army |
                            Department of State|

   The following list of Federal agencies and private organizations assist
   individuals in locating persons of unknown whereabouts. The Privacy Act
   of 1974 prohibits Federal agencies from providing the home addresses or
   telephone numbers of individuals without their written permission. Keep
   this in mind before beginning your search. In most cases, the agency or
   organization will only agree to let the person know you are trying to
   locate them. They may also agree to forward a letter written by you to
   the person that you are trying to locate. Be sure to include the
   appropriate first class postage with the letter to the locator service.
   It will be up to the individual to respond.

   Of course if you suspect the person you are unable to locate has been
   the victim of a crime, you should immediately contact your closest law
   enforcement agency.

   Military Locator Services

   This information can help you to locate active, reserve, and retired
   Department of Defense (DOD) military personnel.

   Each of the four branches of the military has separate procedures for
   contacting active or past service members. In cases of emergency,
   immediate family members should contact the local chapter of the
   American Red Cross. The telephone number and address are available from
   your local telephone directory, directory assistance, or by calling our
   National Contact Center toll-free at 800-688-9889, Monday through
   Friday, from 9a.m. to 8p.m., eastern time.

   Provide as much identifying information as possible about the person
   you wish to locate, such as full name, rank, last duty assignment/last
   known military address, service number, and Social Security number.

   The locator service is free to immediate family members and Federal and
   State government officials. Other family members, civilian friends,
   businesses, or any others must pay a non-refundable fee of $3.50 in the
   form of a check or money order made payable to the U.S. Treasury.

   Image linking to top of page Army

   To locate an active-duty member at the U.S. Army:

          Army Worldwide Locator
          U.S. Army Enlisted Records and Evaluation Center
          8899 East 56th Street
          Indianapolis, Indiana 46249-5301

          Voice:  703/325-3732 (Recording with menu)

   To locate an Army retiree:

          Army Reserve Personnel Center
          ATTN: ARPC-VSE-VS
          9700 Page Avenue
          St. Louis, Missouri 63132-5200

   To locate an Army separatee:

          National Personnel Records Center
          9700 Page Avenue
          St. Louis, Missouri 63132-5200

   Current addresses are not maintained for separatees who are not serving
   under reserve obligation. In such cases you might want to try a
   military organization such as the American Legion or VFW (Veterans of
   Foreign Wars).

   Image linking to top of page Navy

   To locate an active-duty member at the U.S. Navy:

          Navy Worldwide Locator
          Bureau of Naval Personnel
          Pers-312
          5720 Integrity Drive
          Millington, Tennessee 38055-3120

          Voice:  901/874-3388 (Recording 24 hours per day, live
          assistance available - 7:00a.m. - 4:30p.m., central time)

   To locate Navy retirees and separatees:

   Limited service is available by writing to the address above. Letters
   will be forwarded, if possible, to the retiree. A locator notice can
   also be posted in the Navy retiree’s newsletter Shift Colors or you may
   advertise for former shipmates in any of the many veterans’
   organization magazines.

   Image linking to top of page Air Force

   The Air Force Worldwide Locator can locate active duty personnel, as
   well as retirees, reservists, and guardsmen. Parents, spouses, and
   government officials may call 210/565-2478. Letters requesting locator
   service should be mailed to:

          HQ AFPC/MSMIDL
          550 C Street, West, Suite 50
          Randolph AFB, Texas 78150-4752

          Voice:  210/565-2660 (Live assistance - Monday - Friday 7:30a.m.
          - 4:30p.m., central time)

   This service will not help in locating Air Force separatees or Army Air
   Corps retirees. You may write to the National Personnel Records Center
   below or contact one of the various veterans’ service organizations to
   help in locating these persons.

          National Personnel Records Center
          9700 Page Avenue
          Saint Louis, Missouri 63132-1500

   Image linking to top of page Marine Corps

   The Marine Corps Locator Service can provide the duty station for
   active duty personnel and reservists. The office is open Monday through
   Friday from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m., eastern time. The telephone number is
   703/784-3942. Your written request should be mailed to:

          Headquarters U.S. Marine Corps
          Personnel Management Support Branch (MMSB-17)
          2008 Elliot Road
          Quantico, Virginia 22134-5030

          Voice:  703/784-2507

   The Marine Corps is not able to assist in locating former Marines. They
   suggest you place an ad in Leatherneck Magazine. There is a monthly
   feature called "Mail Call" that includes locator requests. There is no
   charge for the service and you may send your request to:

          Mail Call Editor
          P.O. Box 1775
          Quantico, Virginia 22134

   Locating Private Individuals

   The Internal Revenue Service (IRS), the Social Security Administration,
   and the Salvation Army can assist you in locating individuals here in
   the United States. The Department of State’s American Citizens Service
   Abroad can assist you in locating relatives or friends living or
   visiting abroad and who are U.S. citizens.

   Please review the policies and guidelines for each agency/organization
   below:

   Internal Revenue Service (IRS)

   The IRS may forward a letter to someone when humane reasons are
   involved. For example:

     To notify someone of a serious illness, imminent death, or death of
     a close relative,
     To seek an individual for a medical study to detect and treat
     medical defects, or
     To notify an individual who cannot otherwise be located that he or
     she is entitled to certain assets.
     The IRS will forward a letter from an attorney, estate
     administrator, or other person who directly controls the assets.

   For more information and clarification as to what may constitute
   "humane" reasons, you may refer to the IRS Handbook 1.3, Chapter 11,
   which you may find in Other Information Available to the Public.

   If you would like the IRS to help you locate an individual, place a
   personal letter addressed to the individual in a blank envelope.
   Include first class U.S. postage, and do not seal the letter. Place the
   unsealed letter in another envelope and address it as follows:

          Internal Revenue Service
          Office of Disclosure Operations
          1111 Constitution Avenue NW
          Washington, DC 20224

   Image linking to top of page Social Security Administration

   The Social Security Administration will attempt to forward a letter to
   a missing person for reasons similar to those mentioned in the IRS
   section above. There is a $3.00 charge for forwarding letters to inform
   persons about money or property they may be owed. Humanitarian letters
   are forwarded free of charge.

   Follow the same guidelines for sending a letter, and address it as
   follows:

          Social Security Administration
          Office of Public Inquiries
          6401 Security Blvd.
          Baltimore, Maryland 21235

   Image linking to top of page Salvation Army

   The Salvation Army has operated a Family Tracing Service since 1885.
   The service is designed to help people reestablish contact with close
   relatives they may have lost touch with a few years ago or many years
   ago. The service is available in many of the 100 countries where the
   Salvation Army is located.

   The Salvation Army will not help to locate someone in the following
   instances:
     * Friends
     * Situations where adoptions have taken place
     * Alleged fathers of non-marital children
     * Young people under 17 years of age
     * Former husbands or wives
     * Spouses for divorce purposes
     * Estate or similar business matters
     * Genealogies

   From the United States, you may contact the Salvation Army Territory
   Office for your state. Local Salvation Army office numbers are listed
   in your local telephone directory. You may also contact them to begin
   your search.

   Image linking to top of page Department of State

   The US Department of State, Overseas Citizens Services will help locate
   relatives or friends who are overseas when there is concern about their
   welfare or a need to notify them of emergencies at home.

   The Privacy Act requires that U.S. citizens over the age of 18 provide
   a Privacy Act waiver before information about them is released to a
   third party.

   Persons in the United States may inquire about the welfare or
   whereabouts of U.S. citizens abroad by calling the Overseas Citizens
   Services at 202/647-5225. You may also contact the American Citizens
   Service Section of the nearest U.S. embassy or consulate directly.

   You will need to include the following information before you call or
   contact the Department of State:
     * Your full name, address, telephone number, and relationship
     * Their name of the person abroad
     * Their date and place of birth
     * Their passport number (if known)
     * Their last known address and phone number; itinerary
     * Reason for their travel/residence abroad (business, tourism, etc.)
     * Date of last contact
     * Other points of contact abroad (friends, relatives, business
       associates, etc.)
       For emergency messages, also include:
     * Nature of the emergency
     * What message should be provided to the person
     * Name, address and telephone number and relationship of person you
       wish to be contacted after the emergency family message is
       delivered by the U.S. embassy or consulate

   Last Updated: October 26, 2001

                 Logo of the General Services Administration
   This service is provided by the Federal Consumer Information Center of
     the U.S. General Services Administration. If you have a comment or
                question, e-mail us at catalog.pueblo@gsa.gov
