http://www.nbl.doe.gov/mission/mission.htm

   The U.S. Department of Energy, New Brunswick Laboratory [blu1stom.gif]

                                 Our Mission

    THE DOE MISSION:

   DOE is entrusted to contribute to the welfare of the nation by
   providing the scientific foundation, technology, policy and
   institutional leadership necessary to achieve efficiency in energy use,
   diversity in energy sources, a more productive and competitive economy,
   improved environmental quality, and a secure national defense.

    THE NBL MISSION:

   NBL serves as the U. S. Government's Certifying Authority for nuclear
   reference materials and provides an independent Federal technical staff
   and laboratory resource performing nuclear material measurements,
   safeguards and non-proliferation functions in support of multiple
   program sponsors.

    HISTORY:

   NBL was established by the Atomic Energy Commission in 1949 in New
   Brunswick, NJ. It was initially staffed by scientists from the National
   Bureau of Standards that had contributed to the measurement science of
   nuclear materials for the Manhattan Project. NBL's initial mission was
   to provide a Federal capability for the assay of uranium-containing
   materials for the nation's developing atomic energy program. Over the
   years NBL expanded its capabilities, developing newer and improved
   methods and procedures, and certifying additional reference materials
   for use around the world. The capability for plutonium measurements was
   implemented at NBL in 1959. NBL was relocated from New Jersey to the
   site at Argonne National Laboratory during the period 1975-77.

   Since its beginning, NBL has maintained a Center of Excellence in the
   analytical chemistry and measurement science of nuclear materials. In
   this role, NBL continues to perform state-of-the-art measurements of
   the elemental and isotopic compositions for a wide range of nuclear
   materials.

                           Return to NBL Main Page
