http://www.usda.gov/news/releases/2002/01/0016.htm

                               [image002.jpg]

   Release No. 0016.02

                                             Alisa Harrison (202) 720-4623


   PRESIDENT BUSH AND SECRETARY VENEMAN KICK-OFF 4-H CENTENNIAL
   ANNIVERSARY

   President Receives Award and Veneman Announces $1.4 Million for
   Education Efforts


   WASHINGTON, Jan. 18, 2002 – President George W. Bush and Agriculture
   Secretary Ann M. Veneman joined 4-H members from Texas and the
   Metropolitan Washington area to officially inaugurate 4-H’s 100-year
   anniversary at a White House meeting late yesterday.


   “As a former member of 4-H, I know first-hand the value of this
   outstanding youth development program,” said Veneman.  “For 100 years,
   4-H has provided unique opportunities for its members to learn, to grow
   and to work cooperatively in their communities and for their country.
   President Bush’s continued support of 4-H and other youth development
   programs demonstrates this Administration’s commitment to young people
   and to their education.”


   Joining the President and Secretary Veneman were 4-H members Jared
   Locklear of Cameron, Texas; William Jolley of Washington, DC; Molly
   Curran of Laytonsville, MD; Sarah Piechocinski of Montgomery Village,
   MD; Norman Huang of Rockville, MD; and Ashley Wells of Rockville, MD.
   During the meeting, 4-H presented President Bush with its highest
   honor, the “Partner in 4-H” award for his support of 4-H and the Texas
   Cooperative Extension Service while serving as Governor of Texas.
   President Bush was nominated by Gayle W. Hall an associate professor
   from Texas A&M and a 4-H Youth Development Specialist, who was also in
   attendance.


   USDA has also approved $1.4 million for the National 4-H Council, the
   national, private sector non-profit partner of 4-H and the Cooperative
   Extension System, to develop a cooperative development educational
   program.  The program will provide individuals with an in-depth
   understanding of how agribusiness related cooperatives play an
   important role in increasing profitability and global competitiveness
   for ranchers, farmers, and entrepreneurs.


   “4-H has been a leader in helping youth develop leadership and
   technical skills in all parts of the nation,” said Veneman. “These
   funds will contribute to 4-H’s important role in providing young people
   with quality education and development programs.”


   4-H is part of the youth education branch of the Cooperative State
   Research, Education, and Extension Service, an agency of USDA’s
   Research, Economics and Education mission.  Since its inception in
   1902, 4-H has been known throughout the country for its strong programs
   in helping rural youth develop leadership and technical skills.  Today,
   4-H has 6.8 million members who are participating in such projects as
   the Citizenship and Civic Education Program, Communications and
   Expressive Arts Program, Consumer and Family Sciences, Environmental
   Education and Earth Sciences, Healthy Lifestyle Education, Personal
   Development and Leadership, Plants and Animals, and Science and
   Technology.


   Further information on USDA, 4-H and Rural Development can be obtained
   by visiting USDA’s web site at http://www.usda.gov


                                      #
