http://www.simlabs.arc.nasa.gov/cvsrf/cvsrf.html



   CVSRF webpage title bar
   The Crew-Vehicle Systems Research Facility (CVSRF), a unique national
   research resource, was designed for the study of human factors in
   aviation safety. The facility is used to analyze performance
   characteristics of flight crews; formulate principles and design
   criteria for future aviation environments; evaluate new and
   contemporary air traffic control procedures; and develop new training
   and simulation techniques required by the continued technical evolution
   of flight systems.

   Studies have shown that human error plays a part in 60 to 80 percent of
   all aviation accidents. The Crew-Vehicle Systems Research Facility
   allows scientists to study how errors are made, as well as the effects
   of automation, advanced instrumentation, and other factors, such as
   fatigue, on human performance in aircraft.

   A Boeing 747-400 and an Advanced Concepts Flight Simulator [ACFS]
   complimented by a simulated Air Traffic Control system provide full
   mission flight simulation research capability at CVSRF. Dedicated
   experimentor labs for each simulator provide full monitoring and
   control capability for each simulation system. Visual systems provide
   out-the-window cues in both cockpits. The Air Traffic Control System
   simulator provides a realistic air traffic control environment,
   including communication with the cockpits allowing the study of
   air-to-ground communications systems as they impact crew performance.
   CVSRF Facility, cutaway view

                        Click here to skip link list

      SimLabs Home | VMS Home | CVSRF Home | Photos | Library | VLAB |
                     Contact Us | Copyright | NASA Ames
               What's New | Quick Tour | NASA Aviation Systems

                For additional information, please contact...

   Flight Simulation Laboratories
   Attn: Tom Alderete, Chief
   Simulation Planning Office
   NASA Ames Research Center
   Moffett Field, CA 94035-1000        Flight Simulation Laboratories
                                       Attn: Barry Sullivan, Chief
                                       Aerospace Simulation Operations
                                       NASA Ames Research Center
                                       Moffett Field, CA 94035-1000
   or:                                 or:
   email at talderete@mail.arc.nasa.gov
   Phone: 650-604-3271
   Fax: 650-604-3952                   email at bsullivan@mail.arc.nasa.gov
                                       Phone: 650-604-6756
                                       Fax: 650-604-3952

       This page is maintained by Bob Shipley and modified by Kathleen
                                  Starmer.

                     Site was updated: November 30, 2001
