http://www.fletc.gov/mission.htm

                                 FLETC logo

                        The FLETC Mission and Vision

                              blue bar graphic


                              The FLETC Mission

     Our mission is to serve as the Federal governments leader for and
     provider of world-class law enforcement training.   We prepare new
     and experienced law enforcement professionals to fulfill their
     responsibilities in a safe manner and at the highest level of
     proficiency. We also ensure that training is provided in the most
     cost-effective manner by taking advantage of economies of scale
     available only from a consolidated law enforcement training
     organization.


                       The FLETC Vision for the Future

     We are committed to providing strong, collaborative leadership for
     law enforcement training.  Working as partners with client agencies
     including state, local and international organizations, we will
     identify ways that research, training, and education can be used to
     protect our democratic institutions, ensure public safety, and
     preserve law and order.


                           The FLETC Strategic Plan

     The Federal Law Enforcement Training Center Strategic Plan is now
     available for your review. Please feel free to submit any comments
     you may have.


               The Federal Law Enforcement Training Center...
                    A Partnership Committed To Excellence


                              blue bar graphic

     Contacting us... Animated letter sliding into envelope

           We welcome your comments or questions. However, we do have a
     suggestion. If you are seeking information about another agency
     (other than the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center), then you
     should contact that agency directly. We can only assist you with
     information about the FLETC.

                                   Contact Us

                              blue bar graphic

                             Site Navigation Bar

             This web site was last updated on October 3, 2000.
