http://vraptor.jpl.nasa.gov/voyager/30plan.html

VOYAGER APPROACH TO MAINTAINING SCIENCE DATA ACQUISITION FOR A 30 YEAR EXTENDED
MISSION

   [tiedye.gif]

  1. INTRODUCTION

   The Voyager Interstellar Mission (VIM) has the potential for obtaining
   useful interplanetary, and possibly interstellar, fields, particles,
   and waves (FEW) science data until around the year 2020 when the
   spacecraft's ability to generate adequate electrical power for
   continued science instrument operation will come to an end. In order to
   capitalize on this lengthy data acquisition potential, it is imperative
   that the spacecraft have a continuing sequence of instructions for
   acquiring the desired science data, and that the spacecraft High Gain
   Antenna (HGA) remain boresighted on the Earth for continuous data
   transmission. Because of the long mission duration and the likelihood
   of periodic spacecraft anomalies, it is also advantageous to continue
   the use of the on-board fault protection capability for automated
   responses to specific subsystem anomalies, and to provide an on board
   sequence to continue spacecraft operation in the specific event of the
   future loss of command reception capability. All of these factors are
   considered in the VIM sequencing strategy. The following sections
   describe the overall spacecraft sequencing strategy being used for VIM
   operations and the four sequencing elements (Baseline Sequence, Overlay
   Sequence, Mini-Sequence, and Backup Mission Load) used to implement the
   strategy.

   The VIM sequencing strategy for spacecraft operations is significantly
   different from the strategy used during the primary mission which ended
   with the Voyager 2 flyby of Neptune in 1989. Only the current VIM
   strategy is discussed.

    2. SEQUENCING STRATEGY

   A spacecraft sequence is the set of instructions that are stored in an
   on-board computer memory and control the operation of the engineering
   subsystems and science instruments for the purpose of gathering and
   transmitting science data to the ground stations. Typically, a
   spacecraft sequence is designed to function for a specific period of
   time. Some of the key factors that determine the duration of a
   spacecraft sequence are:

     * size of the on-board memory;
     * characteristics of the science observations; a series of one of a
       kind type of observations, or a series of observations that are
       repetitive for an extended period of time;
     * ability to store HGA pointing information on-board the spacecraft.

   With the Voyager spacecraft being mid-1970's technology, the available
   on-board memory for storing spacecraft sequence information is very
   limited by today's standards. A total of less than 1700 words are
   available between the two Computer Command Subsystem (CCS) memories for
   storing sequence instructions and HGA pointing information. This
   limited memory space can be a significant factor if the sequence is
   composed of a series of one of a kind activities. Fortunately, the
   science observations being made during VIM are very repetitive in
   nature. This allows a science observation or instrument calibration to
   be repeated (cyclicized), essentially for the duration of the mission,
   at practically the same memory word cost as a single observation or
   calibration. This implementation of events as a cyclic sequence that
   repeats an observation or calibration on a regular basis is key to the
   VIM sequencing strategy. Another key factor is the ability to store HGA
   pointing information out to approximately the year 2020 in the CCS
   memory. This not only simplifies the routine sequence generation
   support by not requiring HGA pointing information to be included in
   individual sequences transmitted to the spacecraft, but also enables
   the ability to provide a 30 year science data return mission even if
   command capability to the spacecraft is lost.

   As long as command capability exists between the ground and the
   spacecraft, new spacecraft sequences can be stored on-board the
   spacecraft, or existing on-board sequences can be modified. If command
   capability is lost, the spacecraft must continue to operate with the
   sequence that is already stored on-board. Both of these command
   capability considerations are part of the VIM sequencing strategy.

   The VIM sequencing strategy relies on having stored on-board each
   spacecraft a continuously executing sequence of repetitive science
   observations that satisfies the basic VIM heliospheric data acquisition
   requirements. HGA pointing information (HPOINTS), to keep the HGA
   pointed at the Earth until approximately the year 2020, are also stored
   in sequence memory to provide for continual communications capability.
   These two sequence capabilities are referred to as the "baseline
   sequence." Augmentation of the baseline sequence with non-repetitive
   science or engineering events use either an "overlay sequence," or a
   "mini-sequence." The difference between these two types of augmentation
   sequences is that the overlay sequence operates for a fixed interval of
   time, currently six months, and contains all of the baseline sequence
   augmentations for that time interval. The mini-sequence is focused on
   accomplishing a single augmentation need and is not a regularly
   scheduled activity but is done on an as needed basis. Both types of
   sequences are developed and transmitted from the ground.

   The baseline sequence, overlay sequence, and mini-sequence provide the
   basic operational sequence elements for normal operations while command
   capability with the spacecraft is available. In the event command
   capability is lost, another sequence element, the "Backup Mission Load,
   " (BML) provides the mechanism for continued spacecraft data
   acquisition without further ground interaction. A BML is stored
   on-board each spacecraft and contains the necessary instructions to
   modify the continuously executing baseline sequence to maintain the
   continued return of basic FPW data. The BML also terminates both the
   use of the gyros when the available electrical power will no longer
   support their operation, and Digital Tape Recorder (DTR) utilization
   when telecom performance is no longer sufficient to support the minimum
   DTR playback data rate of 1.4 kbps. The termination of gyro and DTR
   operations are unconditional events and will occur at the programmed
   times even if command capabilty is available. If command capability is
   available, the times of these events can be updated based on observed
   actual performance.

   All of these sequence elements use pre-defined blocks of commands to
   accomplish specific spacecraft functions. This is in contrast to the
   prime mission method of essentially programming each sequence in
   assembly language to maximize the science data return for each
   sequence. While the ability to use pre-defined blocks of commands
   greatly reduces the effort required to generate and validate a sequence
   of commands, there is an increase in the number of memory words needed
   to accomplish a given function. Fortunately, the VIM science data
   acquisition requirements, sequencing strategy, and available CCS memory
   space support the use of pre-defined blocks of commands.

   The remainder of this write-up describes each of the four sequence
   elements. Also discussed is:

    1. the interaction of the sequence elements with the on-board Fault
       Protection Algorithms (FPAs) that continually monitor selected
       subsystem performance parameters and contain programmed responses
       which are initiated in the event of out of-tolerance performance;
    2. the planned modifications to the spacecraft configuration in
       response to the continual reduction in electrical power
       availability throughout the remainder of the mission.

    3. BASELINE SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION

   The baseline sequence is stored in CCS memory and is the continuously
   executing set of spacecraft operating instructions that controls the
   collection and return of the bulk of VIM science data acquired during
   normal operations (when command capability exists). It also provides
   the foundation for continuing the return of science data in the event
   of loss of command capability and the resulting BML entry (described in
   the following BACKUP MISSION LOAD DESCRIPTION).

   Baseline sequence implementation relies on the use of eleven
   "spacecraft block routines" that are also stored in CCS memory. These
   routines are the equivalent of software program subroutines and are
   called by the baseline sequence for execution. These block routines
   consist of:

   

   

   BR1  GYRO ON (GYONAB, GYONBC)
   

   

   BR2  SS-HGA CALIBRATION (ASCAL)
   

   

   BR3  MAGNETOMETER ROLL MANEUVER (MAGROL)
   

   

   BR4  GYRO ACTIVITY INTEGRATED (GAIN)
   

   

   BR5  ATTITUDE CONTROL DEADBAND CONTROL (ADB)
   

   

   BR6  FDS DATA MODE CONTROL (FDAMO)
   

   

   BR7  PLASMA WAVE SUBSYSTEM DATA RECORD (PWSREC)
   

   

   BR8  DTR MAINTENANCE (DTRMA)
   

   

   BR9  PLASMA WAVE SUBSYSTEM DATA PLAYBACK (PWSPB)
   

   

   BR10 DTR ACTIVITY INTEGRATED (DAIN)
   

   

   BR11 PLS/MAG/PESCAL (PMPCAL)

   During normal operations, each spacecraft performs the following
   repetitive science and engineering activities under the control of the
   baseline sequence:

     * collection and transmission of continuous real time cruise science
       telemetry data, primarily at 160 bps data rate;
     * recording of one frame of high rate Plasma Wave Subsystem (PWS)
       data on the DTR each week
     * playback of six months of recorded high rate PWS data every 6
       months;
     * execution of a magnetometer calibration roll maneuver (MAGROL)
       every 3 months;
     * execution of a HGA/sun sensor calibration maneuver (ASCAL) every 6
       months;
     * perform a PMPCAL once a month. The PMPCAL consists of a combined
       Plasma Subsystem (PLS), Magnetometer Subsystem (MAG), and FPW
       Periodic Engineering and Science Calibration (PESCAL), calibration
       ;
     * perform DTR maintenance twice a year;
     * perform gyro conditioning (on/off) and a CCS timing test every 3
       months

   In addition, the baseline sequence contains the HGA pointing
   information to keep the antenna pointed at Earth for communication
   purposes. Commands are stored on-board to maintain HGA pointing on
   Voyager 1 until Day-Of-Year (DOY) 342, 2020, and until DOY 204, 2017 on
   Voyager 2. HGA pointing accuracy is assessed every 6 months with the
   ASCAL maneuver. If necessary, the stored pointing information can be
   updated, via ground command, with a new pointing file. No updates have
   been required since the HGA pointing information was initially stored
   in both spacecraft in 1990 and none are expected in the future based on
   peformance trends to date.

   All of the Voyager 1 baseline sequence spacecraft events which require
   70m station coverage for capturing the telemetry data on the ground
   (MAGROL, playback of recorded high rate PWS data, & ASCAL) are
   scheduled to occur over the Goldstone station complex and the Voyager 2
   events over the Canberra complex. These combinations provide the best
   telecom performance for data return. In order to keep baseline sequence
   spacecraft events in sync with Deep Space Station (DSS) view periods
   (requires a near constant sidereal time), spacecraft events are shifted
   in time at the rate of approximately 4 minutes earlier per day. This
   adjusts for the difference between a solar day (24 hours) and a
   sidereal day (23 hours, 56 min, 04.09 sec). As a result of the
   accumulated effect of this 4 minute per day shift, spacecraft events
   occur one day earlier for each year of operation. After six consecutive
   years, the spacecraft events have shifted 6 days earlier in time. At
   the start of the seventh year, the timing of the events are delayed 7
   days and the 4 minute per day shifting begins again. This periodic 7
   day timing shift keeps the spacecraft events occurring within a one
   week calendar time window for the duration of VIM, thus avoiding
   critical spacecraft (DTR playbacks or attitude maneuvers) from
   occurring during designated quiet weeks (i. e. Thanksgiving,
   Christmas/New Years). It should be noted that the described timing
   shifts are designed to maintain the proper Earth Received Time (ERT) of
   the spacecraft telemetry data within the desired station view period.
   This is important since the one-way light time increases approximately
   1/2 hour per year of flight.

   Once a year, in November for Voyager 1 and September for Voyager 2, the
   baseline sequence cyclics end and restart with the previously described
   timing adjustments being made. At this time, any ground commanded
   modifications to the baseline sequence also take effect.

   Because of the continual reduction in the electrical power available to
   operate the spacecraft, gyro operations have to be terminated at some
   future time. DTR operations also have to be terminated when the
   downlink telecom performance will no longer support the minimum DTR
   playback data rate of 1.4 kbps. Based on expected power and telecom
   subsystem performance, the dates for the termination of gyro and DTR
   operations are stored in the long term events table of the BML for each
   spacecraft. These timed unconditional execute commands are used to
   terminate the baseline sequence gyro activities (MAGROLs, ASCALs, and
   gyro conditioning), and to terminate the recording and playback of high
   rate PWS data. The current dates stored in the long term events table
   are:





   Voyager 1 Voyager 2


   Terminate gyro operations (Current RTG trends suggest a 2 to 3 years
   later date for these events) DOY 001, 2007 DOY 007, 2004


   Terminate DTR operations DOY 305, 2010 DOY 251, 2012

    4. OVERLAY SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION

   Overlay sequences are used to augment the continuously executing
   baseline sequence and are prepared on a regularly scheduled basis. At
   the start of VIM (1990), overlay sequences were of 3 month duration,
   with a 6 week development period. Considering both spacecraft, with
   overlay sequence execution staggered 1 1/2 month between spacecraft,
   there was essentially an overlay sequence being developed at all times.
   Initial VIM flight team staffing levels supported two Sequence
   Integration Engineers (SIEs). This allowed one SIE to be developing an
   overlay sequence while the second SIE could be performing other tasks
   (real time command requests, documentation updates, software
   maintenance, etc.). With the 1993 reduction in flight team staffing
   (reduction to one full time SIE), the duration of the overlay loads was
   extended to 6 months. The development time remained at 6 weeks
   providing time for the single SIE to perform the other necessary SIE
   tasks between overlay sequence development periods.

   The intent of the overlay sequence is to provide a mechanism for
   incorporating non-repetitive science or engineering events into the
   spacecraft sequence of activities in combination with the baseline
   sequence. Typical events in overlay sequences have included:

     * Ultraviolet Spectrometer Subsystem (UVS) stellar and heliospheric
       observations;
     * two additional MAGROLs per year per spacecraft;
     * additional high rate PWS records and DTR playbacks;
     * DTR playbacks to recover data when the baseline sequence playback
       was not captured on the ground;
     * CCS/Flight Data Subsystem (FDS)/Attitude and Articulation Control
       Subsystem (AACS) memory readouts;
     * updates to BML and FPAs;
     * modifications to the baseline sequence.

   The need for the 3 month and then 6 month overlay sequences has been
   driven primarily by the requirement for acquiring UVS stellar and
   heliospheric observations. The termination of UVS observations will
   eliminate the necessity for these regularly scheduled sequence loads.
   However, there remains a need to continue to provide a capability for
   augmentation of the baseline sequence for either science data
   acquisition or spacecraft engineering needs. This augmentation will be
   accomplished by small individual mini-sequences that perform a specific
   function and are implemented on an as needed basis.

    5. MINI-SEQUENCE DESCRIPTION

   Mini-sequences also augment the baseline sequence but are prepared on
   an as needed basis rather than on a regularly scheduled basis. These
   sequences are usually intended to perform a single function rather than
   the multiple functions performed by an overlay sequence. The
   development time for a mini-sequence varies from a day to a week or so
   depending on the complexity of the sequence. A common use of a
   mini-sequence is to sequence a second DTR playback of high rate PWS
   data if the baseline sequence playback is not captured on the ground.
   Another common use is in response to a spacecraft anomaly (i. e. the
   performance of a memory readout, a CCS timing test, or other diagnostic
   or anomaly resolution effort). When the termination shock is expected
   to be encountered, a mini-sequence will be used to enable an on-board
   stored routine that will increase the number of high rate PWS records
   from once a week to approximately every nine hours. A mini-sequence
   will also be used to play back the recorded data.

    6. BACKUP MISSION LOAD DESCRIPTION

   The BML provides automated on-board protection against the loss of
   command capability to the spacecraft. Without command capability, the
   spacecraft must continue to operate with the instructions previously
   stored in the CCS memory. Key to the automated protection against the
   loss of command capability is the implementation of a command loss
   timer on-board each spacecraft. The command loss timer is simply a
   programmable timer that resets to a programmed duration each time a
   command is received by the spacecraft. The current duration of the
   command loss timer is six weeks. When a command is received by the
   spacecraft, the timer is reset to a six weeks duration and immediately
   begins counting down towards zero. If the timer reaches zero, as a
   result of a command not being received by the spacecraft within the
   programmed six week duration, the command loss timer will have expired
   and the Command Loss (CMDLOS) routine will be activated which leads to
   the initiation of the BML.

   The implementation of BML-7 (the seventh BML to be loaded on-board
   Voyager 2), in conjunction with the baseline sequence, provides this
   automated protection against loss of command capability. BML-7, with
   some differences in implementation for the two spacecraft, is loaded
   on-board both Voyager 1 and 2.

   BML-7 is designed to meet the following science and mission objectives:

    1. Continue to provide baseline sequence FPW data after a loss of
       command cability, for as long as the spacecraft continues to
       operate. In order to achieve this, BML-7 modifies the baseline
       sequence events to limit spacecraft activities (i. e. terminate
       MAGROLs and ASCALs) and configures the spacecraft FPAs for
       compatibility with the loss of command reception capability.
    2. Continue to provide baseline sequence periodic calibrations of the
       science instruments (PMPCALs) in order to allow science teams to
       properly interpret the data.
    3. Continue to perform baseline sequence DTR maintenance in support of
       the PWS high rate data acquisition, until DTR operations are
       terminated in 2010 for Voyager 1 and 2012 for Voyager 2.
    4. Provide periodic gyro conditioning to maintain gyro integrity for
       FPA responses. Gyro conditioning is continued until the sequenced
       termination of gyro operations in 2007 for Voyager 1 and 2004 for
       Voyager 2.
    5. Include reasonable provisions for maintaining an acceptable telecom
       posture for receipt of telemetry data via the X-band link.
    6. Include additional reasonable fault protection enhancements.
    7. Be transparent to the normal VIM sequence activities.

   In response to these objectives, the design of BML-7 is organized into
   three independent tables, the BML Long-Term Events Table, the BML
   Initialization Table 1 (BMLIT1) and the BML Initialization Table 2
   (BMLIT2). BMLIT1 and BMLIT2 are initiated after entry into the CMDLOS
   routine and contain commands that are only needed in the event command
   reception capability is lost. The BML Long-Term Events Table is a
   continuously active time event region in the CCS that executes
   independently of BML (the events contained in this table will occur
   whether BML-7 is entered or not).

   BML is initiated with the execution of BMLIT1. The BMLIT1 events will
   be executed two weeks after CMDLOS entry if the CMDLOS timer has not
   been reset, but not prior to the end of a current overlay sequence plus
   24 hours. The former condition indicates that BMLIT1 will not execute
   if command ability is restored. The latter condition is necessary to
   maintain the transparency of BML-7 from the normal sequencing
   activities. It is critical for BML to be independent of an active
   overlay sequence to avoid the necessity of constraining the contents of
   the overlay sequence to be compatible with BML-7.

   A flag (CCS location 6714B) used in normal sequence design to allow the
   multiple uplink of a sequence load is also used in BML-7 to check for
   the end of an overlay sequence. This flag is set to 1 by the successful
   reception of all command blocks of an overlay sequence transmission. It
   remains set to 1 during execution of the overlay sequence and is
   automatically reset to 0 when the next planned uplink window opens at
   the end of an overlay sequence. This flag constrains the BMLIT1 events
   to not occur until 24 hours after the flag has been reset to 0 by the
   completion of the overlay sequence, even if the time from CMDLOS entry
   has exceeded 2 weeks.

   Once initiated, BMLIT1 will:

    1. Disable future attitude control maneuvers (ASCALs and MAGROLs).
       ASCALs will not be needed if the HPOINTS (sun sensor bias commands
       to update HGA pointing) cannot be reloaded, and MAGROLs may require
       update of the gyro scale factor, neither of which can be done if
       spacecraft command capability does not exist.
    2. Initiate gyro conditioning. One pair of gyros will be powered on
       for a one week duration with the gyro fault test enabled once a
       year.
    3. Select the 0.05 degree yaw deadband and the 0.25 degree roll
       deadband. All the future attitude control deadband will be
       0.05/0.05/0.25 degrees, pitch/yaw/roll to maximize telecom
       performance.
    4. Select the 160 bps downlink data rate for cruise data return.
    5. Select the Attitude Propulsion (AP) thruster pulse width to the
       nominal 10 ms duration.

   Prior to the start of the A022 sequence (October 16,1995) for Voyager 1
   and the start of the B025 sequence (January 15,1996) for Voyager 2, the
   command loss timer for each spacecraft was set to four weeks. Beginning
   with sequences A022 and B025, the command loss timer for each
   spacecraft is set to six weeks. If command reception is not achieved
   during the duration of the command loss timer following the last
   successful command reception, entry into the CMDLOS routine
   automatically occurs. CMDLOS entry initiates a programmed response to
   try and establish a command reception capability using different
   combinations of redundant command reception hardware. The reception of
   a ground command by the spacecraft during CMDLOS execution terminates
   CMDLOS and resets the CMDLOS timer while maintaining the successful
   command reception hardware configuration. After CMDLOS entry, the
   CMDLOS routine is executed four consecutive times. After the fourth
   execution of the CMDLOS routine, the routine is permanently disabled
   and BML will take effect. The BMLIT2 events will occur approximately
   three weeks after the initiation of the fourth, and final, CMDLOS
   execution (17 weeks, 4 days and 3 hours from the first CMDLOS entry if
   the command loss timer is set for four weeks and 23 weeks, 4 days and 3
   hours if the command loss timer is set for six weeks).

   Once initiated, BMLIT2 issues commands to power down the scan platform
   and configure the spacecraft for the long-term BML mission.
   Specifically, BMLIT2 will:

    1. Power down the scan platform. The following electrical loads will
       be powered off if not already off:
          + Imaging Subsystem (ISS) Wide Angle (WA) Vidicon Replacement
            Heater
          + ISS WA Electronics Replacement Heater
          + ISS Narrow Angle (NA) Vidicon Replacement Heater
          + ISS NA Electronics Replacement Heater
          + Scan Platform Azimuth Actuator Heater
          + Azimuth Actuator Coil Heater
          + Infrared Interferometer Spectrometer and Radiometer Subsystem
            (IRIS) Replacement Heater
          + Ultraviolet Spectrometer Subsystem (UVS)
    2. Initialize the Low Energy Charged Particle Subsystem (LECP) for
       data gathering.
    3. Initialize the CRS for data gathering.
    4. Select data rate of 1.4 kbps for DTR playback of high rate PWS
       data.
    5. Inhibit switch of X-band power level from high to low power after
       DTR playback of high rate PWS data.
    6. Configure the RF subsystem for the BML mission by establishing
       X-high power for all BML downlink operations if the prime X-band
       traveling wave tube (TWT) is operating on Voyager 1 and either
       X-band TWT is operating on Voyager 2. Because of the previous TWT
       switch on Voyager 1, X-Hi is maintained only if the current prime
       TWT is operating. If the current prime TWT fails and a switch to
       the backup TWT is made, X-Lo will be used for telemetry
       transmission.
    7. Modify PWRCHK fault protection algorithm to select X-band TWT to
       the BML configuration after a PWRCHK entry.
    8. Link the AACS Trajectory Correction Maneuver (TCM) thrusters as a
       second backup to provide pitch/yaw attitude control if the primary
       and backup thruster branchs have failed.

   The BML Long-Term Events Table is a separate continuously executing
   time event region that contains all of the unconditional long-term
   events for baseline sequence and BML operation. These events have
   absolute time values associated with them and will occur independent of
   whether the BML has been initiated. Key spaceraft reconfiguration
   events contained in this table include the termination of gyro and DTR
   operations.

    7. SEQUENCE INTERACTION WITH ON BOARD FAULT PROTECTION

   The FPAs on the Voyager spacecraft are designed to recover the
   spacecraft from specific potential mission-catastrophic failures. They
   are implemented primarily in the CCS, while some are in the AACS. The
   FPAs in the CCS are invoked by interrupts received from external
   sources, and followed by preprogrammed responses.

   The five FPAs that currently reside in the CCS are:

     * AACS Power Code Processing (AACSIN)
     * Command Loss (CMDLOS)
     * Radio Frequency Power Loss (RFLOSS)
     * CCS Error (ERROR)
     * Power Check (PWRCHK)

   The main function of the AACSIN routine is responding to AACS anomalies
   by the processing of Power Codes (PCs) received from the AACS. A PC is
   a regularly transmitted message from the AACS to the CCS providing
   status information about the AACS. Some of those PCs relating to a
   faulty AACS condition include heartbeat failure, celestial reference
   loss/acquisition, power supply failure, gyro failure, scan slew abort,
   command parity error, and bad/no echo response. The PCs are either
   functional or informational: the functional PC is used to generate a
   command to the power subsystem to initiate the proper response, and the
   informational PC is used by the CCS to invoke the preprogrammed
   responses. In most instances, the CCS echoes the PC back to the AACS to
   confirm receipt.

   The purpose of the CMDLOS routine is to provide a means for the
   spacecraft to automatically respond to an on-board failure resulting in
   the inability to receive ground commands. Whenever a specified number
   of hours have elapsed without the CCS receiving a valid command, the
   CCS assumes a spacecraft failure and attempts to correct that failure
   by systematically switching to redundant hardware elements until a
   valid command is received. CMDLOS will be executed four consecutive
   times if command reception is not successful. After four unsuccessful
   executions, CMDLOS will be permanently disabled and BML will be
   activated.

   The RFLOSS routine provides the spacecraft a means of automatically
   recovering from a failure of an X-band exciter or transmitter. The CCS
   monitors four input signals from the RFS that are associated with a
   failure of the exciters and transmitters. Whenever one or more of the
   above signals is input to the CCS, RFLOSS will systematically
   interrogate the four interrupts and attempt to correct the failure by
   swapping to a redundant unit.

   If an AACSIN, CMDLOS, or RFLOSS entry occurs, the response will be
   integrated into any on-going sequencing activities which typically
   includes the baseline load, overlay load, HPOINTS and any unconditional
   long term events that are contained in the BML Long-Term Events Table.
   The commands from an FPA response and the regular sequencing activities
   will be interleaved.

   The ERROR routine provides the capability to respond to certain
   anomalous CCS hardware and software conditions. In the event of a
   detected anomaly, the routine puts the CCS in a known, quiescent state
   and waits for ground action. It also stops any on-going sequencing
   activities including baseline load, overlay load, HPOINTS, and BML
   Long-Term Events Table. However, if an ERROR entry occurs in the BML
   mission, the sequencing activities will be restarted by the programmed
   rollback feature as described below.

   The purpose of the PWRCHK is to provide a means for the spacecraft to
   automatically configure itself to a safe, low-power operating mode
   following a power subsystem undervoltage condition or a CCS tolerance
   detector trip. If a PWRCHK entry is due to an undervoltage condition,
   the routine issues commands reducing the spacecraft power load in an
   attempt to recover from the failure condition and configure the
   spacecraft to a safe, low-power mode. If the CCS tolerance detector
   trip occurs indicating that the CCS input power has dropped below a
   level where the processor can reliably function, the spacecraft assumes
   that all other loads have experienced power-on-resets and issues the
   commands to re-enable the essential functions. In addition, due to the
   long round trip light time (RTLT), reduced Deep Space Network (DSN)
   coverage and BML vulnerability, a set of commands was designed and
   implemented on the spacecraft for VIM to configure the science
   instruments and DTR back to the nominal mission.

   Since the PWRCHK is entered via ERROR routine, all the sequencing
   activities including heartbeat, baseline load, overlay load, HPOINTS
   and BML Long-Term Event Table will be terminated as in the ERROR entry.
   However, the baseline load and HPOINTS will be restarted by rollback,
   and the heartbeat and the BML Long-Term Events Table by PWRCHK.

   The rollback is a special feature designed to allow one time event
   region per processor to be automatically restarted in the event of a
   PWRCHK entry or an ERROR entry in the BML mission. The rollback keeps
   track of timing of that particular event so it can be restarted as if
   there were no interruption. The CCS processor A rollback is used to
   restart the HPOINT table and the CCS processor B is for the baseline
   load.

   In addition, one location in PWRCHK is reserved for restarting the BML.
   Unlike the baseline load or HPOINTs, timing for BML Long-Term Events is
   not kept track of, and that location has to be periodically updated in
   the BML Long-Term Events Table to point to the next long-term event. As
   a result, some of BML long-term events may be repeated. However, this
   will not pose any harm to the spacecraft.

    8. MODIFICATIONS IN RESPONSE TO ELECTRICAL POWER LIMITATIONS

   Radioisotope Thermoelectric Generators (RTGs) provide electrical power
   to the Voyager spacecraft. Due to the radioactive decay of the
   Plutonium fuel source, the electrical power provided by the RTGs is
   continually declining. The current rate of decay is approximately 5
   watts per year. Because of the continual decline in the amount of power
   that is available, it is necessary to periodically reduce power
   consumption in order to maintain an adequate power margin. This is
   accomplished by turning off spacecraft power loads. Modifications
   planned are listed in the following tables by specific events and times
   for each spacecraft.

   VOYAGER 1

   1998 DOY 316 - Reduction in Scan Platform power - preserve UVS and
   Elevation Actuator temperature (+11.0 W)
     * WA Vidicon Heater OFF (+5.5 W)
     * NA Vidicon Heater OFF (+5.5 W)

   2002 - Terminate UVS operations - turn-off all Scan Platform loads
   (43.9 W). Date expected to change.
     * WA Electronics Replacement Heater OFF (+10.5 W)
     * IRIS Replacement Heater OFF (+7.8 W)
     * NA Electonics Replacement Heater OFF (+10.5 W)
     * Azimuth Actuator Supplemental Heater OFF (+3.5 W)
     * UVS Power OFF (+2.4 W)
     * UVS Replacement Heater OFF (+2.4 W)
     * Azimuth Coil Heater OFF (+4.4 W)
     * Scan platform slewing power OFF (+2.4 W)

   2010 - Termination of DTR operations (+5.8 W for DTR turnaround)
   This power load reduction step is currently sequenced to occur on DOY
   007, 2004 and could be changed if the current performance trends
   continue.

   2011 - Discontinue gyro operations (+14.4 W steady state, +3.6 W turn
   on transient). This power load reduction step is currently sequenced to
   occur on DOY 305, 2010.

   2015 - Pyro Instrumentation Power OFF (+2.4 W)

   2016 - Turn off PLS instrument
     * PLS 2.4 kHz power OFF (+4.2 W)
     * PLS Replacement Heater OFF (+4.32 W)

   Further responses to decreasing electrical power, beginning in 2018,
   will consist of either turning instrument off sequentially or turning
   instruments off and on in a power sharing mode to maintain an adequate
   power margin.

   VOYAGER 2

   1996 DOY 023 - Reduction in Scan Platform power - preserve UVS and
   Elevation Actuator temperature (+11.0 W)
     * WA Vidicon Heater OFF (+5.5 W)
     * NA Vidicon Heater OFF (+5.5 W)

   1998 DOY 316- Terminate UVS operations - turn-off all Scan Platform
   loads (43.9 W)
     * WA Electronics Replacement Heater OFF (+10.5 W)
     * IRIS Replacement Heater OFF (+7.8 W)
     * NA Electonics Replacement Heater OFF (+10.5 W)
     * Azimuth Actuator Supplemental Heater OFF (+3.5 W)
     * UVS Power OFF (+2.4 W)
     * UVS Replacement Heater OFF (+2.4 W)
     * Azimuth Coil Heater OFF (+4.4 W)
     * Scan platform slewing power OFF (+2.4 W)

   2006 - AP Branch 2 Heater OFF (+11.8 W)
   This power reduction step is currently sequenced to occur on DOY 267,
   2006.

   2010 - Discontinue gyro operations (+14.4 W steady state, +3.6 W turn
   on transient)
   This power load reduction step is currently sequenced to occur on DOY
   007, 2004 and could be changed if the current performance trends
   continue.

   2012 - Termination of DTR operations (+5.8 W for DTR turnaround)
   This power load reduction step is currently sequenced to occur on DOY
   251, 2012.

   2016 - Pyro Instrumentation Power OFF (+2.4 W)

   Further responses to decreasing electrical power, beginning in 2016,
   will consist of either turning instrument off sequentially or turning
   instruments off and on in a power sharing mode to maintain an adequate
   power margin.

   [back.gif] Return to Voyager Project Home Page

   [tiedye.gif]

   Last Updated: 7/23/2001
   Comments ? Questions ? Problems ? Your Feedback is Welcome!
