http://fire.pppl.gov/fusion_bill_press.pdf

   FUSION ENERGY SCIENCES ACT OF 2001 Legislation to invest in a long-term
   solution to our energy needs Representative Zoe Lofgren 227 Cannon
   House Office Building 202-225-3072 http://zoelofgren.house.gov Science
   & Technology May 8, 2001 NEWS House Science Committee, Democratic
   Membership Mail address: Office Location: 2320 Rayburn House Office
   Building 394 Ford House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 fax:
   202/225-3895 202/225-6375 staff contact: Charlie Cooke
   http://www.house.gov/science_democrats/welcome.htm ***PRESS CONFERENCE
   ADVISORY*** ANNOUNCEMENT OF FUSION ENERGY BILL Lofgren Calls For
   Investment to Tap New Energy (Washington, DC)- Congresswoman Zoe
   Lofgren (D-CA, Science Committee) along with co-sponsors of the Fusion
   Energy Sciences Act of 2001 and others will be holding a press
   conference in front of the Capitol Hill Power Plant. Invited
   co-sponsors include: Reps. Ken Calvert (R-CA), Randy "Duke" Cunningham
   (R-CA), Darrell Issa (R-CA), Rush Holt (D- NJ), Ralph Hall (D-TX), and
   Bart Gordon (D-TN). The legislation would provide for a roadmap for a
   burning plasma experiment, the first step to a commercially viable
   fusion energy power plant. The bill would also call for increased
   federal support for fusion energy research. What is Fusion? Fusion
   energy is seen as a limitless and environmentally safe energy source
   and a possible long-term solution to our growing energy needs. Fusion
   is the energy that powers the sun and the stars. Basically, it is the
   fusion of two small atoms into a larger atom. When these two atoms
   fuse, a tremendous amount of energy is released. This energy can be
   harnessed to generate electricity. How likely is fusion energy?
   Significant amounts of fusion energy have been created in the
   laboratory throughout the world. More research is needed to take fusion
   out of the lab and make it commercially viable. FUSION ENERGY PRESS
   CONFERENCE Wednesday, May 9 at 2:30PM 2 Blocks from Capitol House of
   Reps. Parking Lot 10 in front of Capitol Hill Power Plant Ivy Street SE
   between New Jersey Avenue and South Capitol Street (across the street
   from DNC building) (Rain Site: Thursday 10:30AM Rayburn 2325) For more
   information or directions contact Toni Wehman 202-225-3072 News Release
   From U.S. CongresswOman Zoe Lofgren 26th Congressional District,
   California FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACX Toni Wehman May 9, 2001 (202)
   225-3072 ***SATELLITE FEED ADVISORY*** ANNOUNCEMENT `OF FUSION ENERGY
   BILL Lofgen Calls For Investment to Tap New Energy (Washington, DC)-
   Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) along with co-sponsors of the Fusion
   Energy Sciences Act of 2001 and others will be holding a press event in
   front of the Capitol Hill Power Plant. Invited co-sponsors include:
   Reps. George Nethercutt (R-WA), Ken Calvert (R-CA), Randy "Duke"
   Cunningham (R- CA), Darrell Issa (R-CA), Mike Honda (D-CA), Rush Holt
   (D-NJ), Ralph Hall (D-TX), and Bart Gordon (D- TN). The legislation
   would provide for a roadmap for a burning plasma experiment, the first
   step to a commercially viable fusion energy power plant. The bill would
   also call for increased federal support for fusion energy research.
   What is Fusion? Fusion energy is seen as a limitless and
   enviromnentally safe energy source and a possible long-term solution to
   our growing energy needs. Fusion is the energy that powers the sun and
   the start. Basically, it is the fusion of two small atoms into a larger
   atom. When these two atoms fuse, a tremendous amount of energy is
   released. This energy can be harnessed to generate electricity. How
   likely is fusion energy7 Significant amounts of fusion energy have been
   created in laboratories throughout the world. More research is needed
   to take fusion out of the lab and making it commercially viable. FUSION
   ENERGY PRESS EVENT Satellite Uplink Time: 4:304:45pm Eastern Time or
   I:30 Pacific Time Coordinates: Galaxy 4 Transponder 22 Vertical
   Downlink 4140 For more information contact Toni Wehman 202-225-3072
   News Release From U.S. Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren 26th Congressional
   District, California FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Toni Wehman May 9,
   2001 (202) 225-3072 LOFGREN ANNOUNCES FUSION ENERGY BILL Calls For
   Investment in Potential Solution to Energy Crisis (Washington, DC)-
   Today, Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) introduced legislation that
   would speed up the development of a commercially viable fusion energy
   power plant. Co-sponsors of the legislation include Reps. George
   Nethercutt (R-WA), Ken Calvert (R-CA), Randy "Duke" Cunningham (R-CA),
   Darrell Issa (R-CA), Tom Davis (R-VA), Mike Honda (D-CA), Rush Holt
   (D-NJ), Ralph Hall (D-TX), Bart Gordon (D-TN), Jane Harmon (D-CA),
   Barbara Lee (D-CA), John Olver (D-MA), Ellen Tauscher (D-CA), and Susan
   Davis (D-CA). The bill would commit more federal support for fusion
   energy research. Fusion energy is seen as an ideal energy source and a
   possible solution to our growing energy needs. "We need to look forward
   and invest in new energy technologies and research," said Lofgren.
   "Currently, we appear to be looking backward to traditional energy
   sources like coal, oil, gas, and nuclear power We need to also look
   forward to science and new technologies for energy solutions. Fusion is
   a safe, clean, reliable source of energy that may help us meet our
   long-term energy needs." Fusion energy is basically the combination or
   fusion of two atoms into a larger atom which results in the release of
   tremendous amounts of energy. This energy could be harnessed to produce
   immense amounts of electricity. Fusion would produce no air pollution.
   It would be safe and cannot blow up or cause a melt down. In addition,
   its fuel source is the hydrogen found in water which is abundant and no
   group of nations would have a cartel. In the past decade, significant
   fusion energy discoveries have been made. However despite this
   progress, the U.S. fusion science budget has been cut by 40% in recent
   years. In addition, no new fusion energy experimental equipment has
   been built in this country in over 20 years. "I am hopeful that this
   nation, a world leader in science research, can make fusion energy
   available on a large scale," added Lofgren. "Investing in fusion
   research has the long-term promise of giving millions of people access
   to an affordable and reliable energy source. We all deserve the best
   energy futureture not simply a retum to the past." MORE INFORMATION AND
   PICTURES OF THE EVENT CAN BE FOUND ON OUR WEBSITE
   http://zoelofgren.house.gov FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: CONTACT: Harmony
   Allen May 9, 2001 (202) 225-5452 CUNNINGHAM SUPPORTS FUSION ENERGY BILL
   WASHINGTON- Congressman Randy "Duke" Cunningham (R-San Diego) joined a
   bipartisan coalition of House Members led by Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren
   (D-CA) today to introduce a bill to strengthen U.S. fusion research and
   accelerate planning for the next step towards practical fusion energy.
   The Fusion Energy Sciences Act of 2001 will provide a roadmap for a
   burning plasma experiment, the first step to a commercially viable
   fusion energy power plant. The bill also calls for increased federal
   support for fusion energy research. Fusion research has long been
   considered a limitless and environmentally safe energy source and a
   possible long-term solution to our growing energy needs. Fusion is the
   energy source that powers our sun. At its most basic, it is the
   combining or fusion of two small atoms into a larger atom. When two
   atomic nuclei fuse, tremendous amounts of energy are released. If
   proven possible, fusion will be close to the ideal energy source: it is
   safe, produces no air pollutants, and its fuel source is practically
   unlimited. Debate has ceased about whether controlled fusion can be
   created on earth. Significant amounts of fusion energy are created with
   regularity in laboratories. The remaining question is whether fusion
   can make the challenging step from the laboratory to a practical energy
   source. Achieving this goal will require high quality science and
   innovative research. "I want to thank Congresswoman Lofgren for her
   initiative in moving forward with this bill. Although fusion energy
   will not solve today's pressing energy crisis in California, fusion is
   an excellent prospect for the future. Californians know all too well
   that short, medium and long range planning are critical in meeting
   energy needs. We must have a long-range vision of what is possible for
   the future," said Congressman Cunningham. "The Fusion Energy Sciences
   Act of 2001 will strengthen the ongoing fusion research program in this
   country and require the Department of Energy to develop a plan for
   taking the next step," added Cunningham. San Diego is home to some of
   the nation's leading fusion research facilities, including research
   done at UCSD and General Atomics in La Jolla. ### NEWS From:
   Congressman Mike Honda FIFTEENTH DISTRICT CALIFORNIA For Immediate
   Release Contact: Ernest Baynard May 9, 2001 (202) 225-263 1 LOFGREN,
   HONDA ANNOUNCE FUSION ENERGY BILL South Bay Members Join with
   Carifornia Colleagues to Form Long-Term Energy Solution Washington, DC-
   Today, South Bay Members of Congress Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) and new
   Science Committee member, Rep. Mike Honda (D-San Jose) announced
   legislation that would commit more federal support for fusionsion
   energy research in order to speed up the development of a commercially
   viable fusion energy power plant in the United States. Co- sponsors of
   the legislation include Ken Calvert (R-CA), Randy "Duke" Cunningbam
   (R-CA), Darrell Issa (R-CA), Ralph Hall (D-TX), Bart Gordon (D-TN),
   Jane Harman (D-CA), Barbara Lee (D-CA), John Olver (D-MA), Ellen
   Tauscher (D-CA), and Susan Davis (D-CA). Many experts see fusion energy
   as an ideal energy source and a cleaner, more efficient solution to the
   nation's growing energy needs. "As a member of the Science Committee, I
   strongly support this important, common-sense measure that will provide
   needed federal funding for the development of fusion energy to help to
   meet our energy needs over the course of the next century," said Honda.
   "As we have recently seen in California, without an adequate energy
   supply, prosperity suffers. Any long-term solution to our energy crisis
   must be based upon sound science and innovation, not politics as
   usual." Fusion energy is basically the combination or fusion of two
   atoms into a larger atom that results in the release of tremendous
   amounts of energy. This energy could be harnessed to produce immense
   amounts of electricity. Studies have shown that fusion would produce no
   air pollution and would be safe and cannot blow up or cause a melt down
   The fuel source for fusion energy is a common form of hydrogen found in
   a resource we have in abundance- water. In the past decade, significant
   fusion energy discoveries have been made. However despite this
   progress, the U.S. fusion science budget has been cut by 40% in recent
   years. In addition, no new fusion energy experimental equipment has
   been built in this country in over 20 years. "As a Member of Congress
   from the Bay Area, I am proud to represent a State and a region that is
   on the cutting edge of fusion research," continued Honda. "Academic
   institutions and national laboratories in California are undertaking
   groundbreaking research in magnetic fusion and inertial fusion
   research. This important work merits strong federal support- our future
   depends upon it." -30- ATTENTION NEWS EDITOR Contacts: lMark Haynes
   (202) 496-8209 FR OE David Baldwin (858) 455-2490 May 8, 2001 GENERAL
   ATOMICS APPLAUDS INTRODUCTION OF FUSION BILL SAN DIEGO, CA On
   Wednesday, May 9th a bipartisan coalition of Members of the House of
   Representatives led by Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) plans to
   introduce a bill to strengthen U.S. fusion research and to initiate
   planning for the next step towards practical fusion energy. Congressmen
   Ken Calvert (R-CA), Randy "Duke" Cunningham (R-CA), Ralph Hall (D-TX),
   Rush Holt (D-NJ) and Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA) among others will
   join Congresswoman Lofgren in sponsoring the bill. At 2:30 p.m. on Mav
   9th Congresswoman Lofgren and other Members will conduct a press
   conference on the bill (see below). General Atomics, a diversified
   technology company with a 40 year history in fusion research, currently
   operates the nation's largest fusion energy experiment in the U.S. at
   its San Diego headquarters: the DIII-D (pronounced "dee 3 dee")
   National Fusion Facility. Although practical fusion power is still many
   years away, profound scientific progress made at the General Atomics
   DIII-D facility and elsewhere in the U.S. and overseas has removed any
   doubt about the ability to create fusion energy.. The challenge ahead
   is to do the scientific and technological work required to make fusion
   a practical and affordable energy source. The bill being introduced by
   Congresswoman Lofgren and others has two primary objectives: first, t o
   strengthen the existing U.S. fusion research program which has suffered
   substantial budget cuts during the past decade and second, to make
   necessary plans for the next step towards practical fusion: a so called
   magnetic fusion "burning plasma" experiment. All known fusion reactions
   take place in extremely hot ionized gasses called "plasmas". The sun
   and stars are themselves huge fusion reactors made up of plasma. One of
   the most common ways of creating fusion reactions on earth is to
   confine hot plasmas with strong magnetic fields in experimental devices
   such as the DIII-D facility. To date, all fusion experiments have
   required that large amounts of energy be injected into them to keep the
   fusion reaction going much like a campfire with a blowtorch on it. A
   burning plasma, experiment on the other hand, generates heat via the
   fusion process. A fully ignited burning plasma would, therefore, be
   much like a campfire that can bum on its own without the blowtorch. Dr.
   David Baldwin, leader of the General Atomics fusion research pmgram
   said "In addition to a much needed strengthening of the U.S. fusion
   energy sciences program, the Lofgren bill calls for the Department of
   Energy to submit to Congress a plan for U.S. participation in a
   domestic and possibly international buming plasma experiment. It is
   time to make serious plans for this step and to move forward. The
   scientific knowledge we will gain from such an experiment will be
   invaluable and will lay the groundwork for what we all hope will be an
   important contributor to world energy supplies later this century."
   Baldwin added: "Although the burning plasma experiment contemplated in
   this bill could not be located at General Atomics we know this bill is
   the right thing to do for fusion and for the nation and we applaud
   Congresswoman Lofgren and these other farsighted Members of Congress
   for their action." Congresswoman Lofgren will be joined by other
   Members of Congress for a press conference on the bill`s introduction
   on Wednesday, May 9th @ 2:20 p.m. EST in House of Representatives
   Parking Lot #10 across from the Capitol Hill Power Plant In the event
   of rain, the press conference will be held on Thursday, May 10th at
   10:30 a.m. in Room 2325 Rayburn House Office Building (The House
   Science Committee &lain Hearing Room). Please Contact Toni Wehman of
   Congresswoman Lofgren's staff at (202) 225-3072 ##### RECENT STUDIES ON
   FUSION R&D President's Committee of Advisors on Science and Technology
   July, 1995 PCAST study entitled "The U.S. Program of Fusion Energy
   Research and Development" concluded: "Funding for fusion energy R&D by
   the Federal government is an important investment in the development of
   an attractive and possibly essential new energy source for this country
   and the world in the middle of the next century and beyond." The 1995
   report also recommended a minimum annual budget of $320 for fusion.
   September, 1997 PCAST report entitled "Federal Energy Research and
   Development for the Challenges of the 21st Century reconfirmed
   recommendations of the 1995 PCAST report. Secretarv's Energy Advisorv
   Board September, 1999 report entitled "Realizing the Promise of Fusion
   Energy" concludes: - " the threshold scientific question - - namely,
   whether a fusion system pro&u&g saftkient net energy gain to be
   attractive as a commercial power source can be sustained and controlled
   - - can and will be solved." "In light of the promise of fusion and the
   risks arishg from bxreasing worldwIde energy demand and from eventually
   declining fossil energy supply, it is our view that we should pursue
   fusion energy aggressively." National Research Council Early 2001
   report entitled "An Assessment of the Department of Energy's Office of
   Fusion Energy Sciences Program" focused on the quality of fusion energy
   sciences research and provide direction for the future. With regard to
   the quality of fusion science itself, the report concludes: - ". .-the
   quality of the science funded by the United States fusion research
   program in pursuit of a practical source of power from fusion (the
   fusion energy goal) is easily on a par with the quality in other
   leading areas of contemporary physical science." With regard to
   directions, the report recommends broadening the s&&tic base of fusion
   and its interaction with other branches of science. In addition, the
   report recommends that: - "Increasing our scientific understanding of
   fusion-relevant plasmas should become a central goal of the U.S. fusion
   energy program on a par with the goal of developing fusion energy
   technology..." and that - "Solid support should be developed within the
   broad scientific community for U.S. investment in a burning plasma
   experiment."
