http://listeria.nwfsc.noaa.gov/nicmere/nicmere.htm

              Northwest Fisheries Science Center/NMFS/NOAA/DOC

     * Download this page as a PDF file
     * See more pictures of the NICMERE signing ceremony

                    Historic Educational Agreement Signed
             Leading to the Creation of a National Indian Center
             for Marine and Environmental Research and Education

   "This is an important event for the DOC family. The agreement gives us
       the opportunity to contribute to the scientific education and
       research training of many more Native Americans by working through
       the Tribal colleges. We can look beyond the small amount of seed
       money we have today, into the future, recognizing that with
       adequate funding, the Tribes and the DOC can benefit their mutual
       missions of stewardship of this nation’s resources, by creating a
       diverse workforce that has the special knowledge and experience
       Native American’s can bring." Dr. Usha Varanasi, Director NWFSC
       "The economy and the lifestyles of the Northwest Indian nations are
       deeply rooted in the natural resources of the sea. Since tribes
       have increased responsibility for preserving and sustaining these
       valuable resources, tribal college are the ideal institutions to
       provide the education and training for tribal people who will
       become the technologists, researchers and managers of these tribal
       resources." Robert Lorence, President Northwest Indian, Seattle
       Times, 4/21/00.

   On April 20, at a ceremony on the NOAA Northwest Fisheries Science
   Center campus, an historic educational agreement was signed, leading to
   the creation of a National Indian Center for Marine and Environmental
   Research and Education. Once built, the National Indian Center will
   draw in NOAA’s Northwest Fisheries Science Center scientists, as well
   as those from through the Department of Commerce (DOC), as adjunct
   faculty for the Indian College’s marine and environmental science
   programs. The program is designed to be a pilot joint training program
   in environmental and marine science and research training for Tribal
   Colleges and Universities (TCUs) throughout the nation. Organizers have
   $100,000 in grants from two DOC offices – the NMFS (Northwest Fisheries
   Science Center) and the Economic Development Administration. The U.S.
   Census will provide in-kind training for the project in FY00. The
   agreement is significant not only because it brings together the
   Department of Commerce and Tribal Colleges and Universities, but
   because it brings together various bureaus and offices within Commerce
   as well. Additional grants are hoped for next year to increase
   capabilities and enhance the project. The National Indian Center is the
   first in the country aimed at increasing Tribal representation in the
   ranks of marine and environmental science and technical professionals.

   More than 100 officials from Northwest Tribes and Tribal Colleges spent
   the afternoon mapping out goals for the center. Distance learning will
   play a key role in the National Indian Center’s reach to other TCUs and
   reservations. While the Northwest Indian College will be the center of
   educational learning, satellite courses will allow other TCUs to take
   advantage of the center. Broadcasting lectures via satellite will allow
   at least 16 of 30 tribal colleges to participate in the center’s
   program without leaving their own reservation. Eventually, all 30
   schools will be tied into the system.

   Photo: The historic signing on an agreement between the Northwest
   Indian College and the Northwest Fisheries Science Center creating the
   National Indian Center for Marine and Environmental Research and
   Education Joint Institute. Participants in this historic signing were
   (from left to right): Levi Jefferson, Board Chair, Northwest Indian
   College; Mr. David Festa, Director of Policy for the Department of
   Commerce; Dr. Usha Varanasi, Science Director, Northwest Fisheries
   Science Center; and Dr. Robert Lorence, President, Northwest Indian
   College.


   [Image1.gif]

   In addition to the formal ceremony, the NOAA Northwest Fisheries
   Science Center conducted tours of its unique scientific laboratory
   which uses sound scientific principles and practices to resolve complex
   environmental Pacific salmon and groundfish issues. Research programs
   highlighted during the tours included:

   [Image2.gif]
     * The NWFSC’s genetic science program, and how it helps solve the
       problem of salmon recovery.
     * The NWFSC’s unique computer monitored fish rearing facility which
       also recycles over 99% of its water to save energy.
     * The NWFSC’s unique environmental conservation program which
       researches how pesticides and urban pollution can impact salmon and
       marine fish.


   Above: Attendees at the event included (seated from left to right),
   Kathleen Jewett, NWFSC; Marcia Warren, Senior Policy Advisor to the
   Secretary on Native American Affairs, DOC; Dr. Barbara Rasco,
   Washington State University; Dr. Gleyn Bledsoe, NW Indian College;
   (standing) Dr. K. Nan Little, University of Washington, and Moises
   Carrasco, Regional Director, Bureau of Census.

   At right: Dr. Varanasi and Dr. Lorence look on as Mr. David Festa reads
   Deputy Secretary of Commerce Robert L. Mallett’s letter of
   congratulations on the establishment of this first-of-its-kind
   partnership which can be used as a model for Department of Commerce and
   other agencies across the nation

   [Image3.gif]

   The economy and the lifestyles of the Northwest Indian nations are
   deeply rooted in natural resources. Until now, few tribal colleges have
   had the resources to hire the needed staff to provide Tribal members
   with marine and environmental scientific and technical training to
   manage their own natural resources, as well as provide a trained
   workforce for scientific and technical jobs with the federal
   government.. This agreement holds the promise of filling both needs by
   mobilizing Department funds and utilizing DOC personnel to fill the
   teaching gap.

   [Image4.gif] Left: Senator Patty Murry congratulates participants on
                this historic agreement and pledges her support.


   Home | InfoCenter | Library | Publications | Research | Collaborations
     About NWFSC | Related Sites | Special Projects | Employment | NWFSC
                                  Directory
      News and Press Releases | Contact | Disclaimer & Privacy Policy |
                             Guestbook | Search
                http://www.nwfsc.noaa.gov/nicmere/nicmere.htm
                             last update 12/1/00
