http://www.fca.gov/FCA-News.htm

   Skip to Main Content      Pictures of Farm Scene

   FCA Homepage About FCA News and Events FCA's Publications Legal
   Information Farm Credit System Institutions

                                   graphic
                             Search FCA homepage

                                News & Events

   graphic of a red button News
                           — What's New
                           — News Releases


   What's New

   January 22, 2002

   FY 2001 FCA Performance and Accountability Report This annual report
   consolidates the reporting requirements of the Chief Financial Officers
   Act of 1990, the Government Performance and Results Act of 1993, and
   several other statutes covering public accountability. It also contains
   information on the financial condition and performance of the Farm
   Credit System. (Adobe Acrobat Reader is required.)

   Remarks by Chairman Michael M. Reyna at the Farm Credit Council's
   Annual Meeting in Orlando, Florida.

   December 17, 2001

   Selected financial performance indicators for Farm Credit System banks
   and associations as of September 30, 2001, are now available.

   November 5, 2001

   FCA adds an online form for requesting information under the Freedom of
   Information Act (FOIA) Information. See Submit a FOIA Request to FCA
   for more information.

   November 2, 2001

   Information on Corporate Activity of Farm Credit System institutions as
   of October 1, 2001, is now available. Included are a map of FCS banks'
   chartered territories, a table showing the number of FCS institutions
   by type and district, and a tabular report on FCS corporate activity.

   October 11, 2001

   The FCA Board voted to direct staff to further study aspects of the
   proposed rule on National Charters. Statements by Chairman Michael M.
   Reyna and Board Member Ann Jorgensen are also available.

   September 20, 2001

   The FCA Board's Regulatory Performance Plan for fiscal year 2002 is now
   available. The plan contains the projected schedule for regulatory
   development for the upcoming fiscal year.

   August 24, 2001

   The U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia ruled August 23
   that FCA acted within its authority when it issued a final rule on loan
   participations for Farm Credit System institutions. Full Story. Court
   Order and Opinion.

   August 23, 2001

   FCA adds a new feature - the Uniform Performance Report - to its
   Internet service, which allows the public easy access to Farm Credit
   System institutions' financial information.

   July 12, 2001

   The FCA Board adopts a reproposed rule that allows a Farm Credit System
   (FCS) institution to terminate its FCS charter and become a bank, a
   savings and loan association, or other financial institution under
   another Federal or state chartering authority.

   July 6, 2001

   FCA will hold a public meeting on August 3 in Des Moines, Iowa to
   solicit suggestions on ways to increase the availability of credit to
   agriculture and rural communities.

   June 14, 2001
   Inspection of FCA's Affirmative Employment Program Action Plan (AEP)
   evaluates the current status of actions set up in FCA's AEP. Report
   provided in PDF format.

   June 12, 2001

   Audit of Performance Budgeting at FCA evaluates whether the FCA Board
   receives appropriate analysis and insight about offices' requested
   funds to enable it to make informed decisions. Report provided in PDF
   format.

   Office of Inspector General FY 2000 Performance Measures. Report
   provided in PDF format.

   June 8, 2001

   FCA signs partnership agreement with Hispanic Association of Colleges
   and Universities, providing nine summer interns on-the-job experience
   and an introduction to career opportunities in the federal government.

   June 7, 2001

   FCA announces a new Internet service allowing the public easy access to
   Farm Credit System institutions' financial information.

   May 11, 2001

   FCA announces appointment of Doug Valcour as Chief Information Officer.

   May 10, 2001

   FCA Board approves direct final rule on eligibility at its May 10
   meeting.

   April 26, 2001

   Inspection of FCA's Cash Management and Investment Practices evaluates
   how the agency manages the funds it receives primarily through
   assessment of Farm Credit System institutions. Report provided in PDF
   format.

   Office of Inspector General Operating and Performance Plan Fiscal Year
   2001. Plan provided in PDF format.

   April 20, 2001

   Summaries of selected Legal Opinions prepared by FCA's Office of
   General Counsel staff are now available.

   April 12, 2001

   Interagency Agreement Signed - FCA has agreed to examine several
   non-bank lenders that participate in making loans through the US
   Department of Agriculture's Business and Industry Guaranteed Loan
   Program.




     Home | About FCA | News & Events | Publications | Legal Info | FCS
                                Institutions
                          Accessibility Information
      Please refer to our Privacy Policy for important information that
                  should be read before proceeding further.
   Some documents contained in this Web site are PDF files and require the
                                   use of
   the Adobe Portable Document Format 4.0 (PDF) viewer, available for free
                          from the Adobe Web site.
         Comments or Questions? Contact FCA Office of Congressional
        and Public Affairs (703) 883-4056 or e-mail info-line@fca.gov
                           Last Updated: 01/29/02
