http://www.doit.ca.gov/help/filehelp.asp


                               Spacer Image
             Welcome to California California Home Spacer Image
                               Spacer Image


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree
   Spacer Image



   Spacer Image
                DOIT Home
                About DOIT
                Annual Reporting Calendar New Image
                DOIT's Strategic Plan
                Statewide Information Management Manual
                Operational Recovery Plan
                Software Management
                Reports
                Executive Leadership Forum
                Cyber Security
                CIO Advisory Workgroups & Enterprise Coordination Council
                CIO Meeting
                Public Notice
                IT Careers
                Job Opportunities
                EPMS

                                Spacer Image


   Department of Information Technology
   Spacer Image



                                        __________ search
                                                (*)  My CA

   Spacer Image

   Spacer Image
   Spacer Image File Format Help Spacer Image
   Spacer Image

   HTML Format   HTML Format
   Adobe Acrobat PDF Format   Adobe Acrobat PDF Format
   Microsoft Word Format   Microsoft WORD Format

   HTML Format   HTML File Format

   HTML is the standard file format for most web pages.   All that is
   needed to view an HTML file is a standard web browser such as the one
   you are using to read this page.  HTML is the best file choice when you
   just want to quickly view a file online in your browser.  It loads more
   quickly than PDF and WORD in most cases, and you don't need any
   additional software to view HTML files.  An HTML file would not be the
   best choice when you want to print the content being viewed on your
   screen.  If you want to print a particular document, look to see if a
   PDF or WORD version is available.  Look at the file descriptions below
   for more details on the other file types.

   Adobe Acrobat PDF Format   PDF File Format

   The PDF file format is the best choice for printing reports and other
   documents, viewing graphically intensive documents, and observing
   documents in their original format.  You must have the free Adobe
   Acrobat Reader installed on your PC to view PDF documents.  PDF is a
   very common format for viewing documents on the Internet so installing
   the Acrobat Reader will be useful on other websites as well.   To
   download the Acrobat Reader or to find out more about the product,
   click on the Adobe icon below...
   Get Adobe Acrobat Reader

   Microsoft Word Format   Microsoft WORD File Format

   The Microsoft Word Document format (.DOC) is the file format for all of
   the available documents and reports on our site written in Microsoft
   Word.  You must have either have Microsoft Word or the free Microsoft
   Word Viewer installed on your PC to view MS Word files.  If you don't
   have either installed, you can also download (save) the Word file to
   your PC and either take it to a PC that has Word or try and open it in
   your word processor for conversion.  To downloard the Microsoft Word
   Viewer or to find out more about the product, click on the Microsoft
   icon below...
   Get Microsoft Word Viewer

                             Back to Top of Page
    © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                Privacy Policy DOIT's Data Collection Policy
