http://www.ciao.gov/News/SenGovAffTritakTmony100401.html

         Critical Infrastructure Assurance Office Home Page Critical
                       Infrastructure Assurance Office

                       Emergency Situation Assistance
                          Links to other Resources
     * Federal Government Computer Issues
     * Computer Crime and Intellectual Property Issues
     * Threat assessment, warning, investigation, & response
     * Internet Security issues

                                  CIAO Info

   Mission

   Key Initiatives

   CIAO FAQs

   Bibliography and Related Links

   CIAO Archives
   " " PCCIP
   " " Audit Summits
   " " Other Archived documents
   " " News Items
   " " PowerPoint Presentations

   Government CIP Related Sites
     __________________________________________________________________

                                CIP Overview

                           Calendar of CIP Events


            "Critical Infrastructure Protection: Whos in Charge?"
                  Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs
                          Thursday, October 4, 2001
                             9:30 a.m. Room 342
                         Statement of John S. Tritak
              Director Critical Infrastructure Assurance Office
     __________________________________________________________________

    Mr. Chairman, members of the Committee on Governmental Affairs, it is
   an honor to appear before you today to discuss the Federal governments
    ongoing efforts to help secure our nations critical infrastructures.
      Earlier efforts are described in some detail in the Report of the
      President of the United States on the Status of Federal Critical
             Infrastructure Protection Activities, January 2001.
   The Committee on Governmental Affairs has shown exceptional leadership
     on a broad range of national and economic security issues. This is
   particularly true in regard to Critical Infrastructure Assurance. I am
   therefore grateful for the opportunity to work closely with you and the
    Congress to develop ways to advance infrastructure assurance for the
    private sector, for the federal, state and local governments, and in
                          fact, for all Americans.
     As you know, President Bush has declared that securing our critical
   infrastructures is essential to our economic and national security and
       will be a priority of his administration. The tragic events of
       September 11^th only underscore the urgency with which we must
      undertake this vital task as one component of a broader effort to
               secure the nations homeland against terrorism.
   No viable solutions especially on a matter of such complexity and scope
   - can be developed or implemented without the executive and legislative
         branches working closely together, and in the coordinated,
                     complimentary manner that they are.
    As vital as our nations critical infrastructures are to the American
    Way of Life, the authority to protect those infrastructures must be a
    priority; and the resources must match the rhetoric. I am excited by
      the Common Purpose that has joined the Executive and Legislative
   branches of our great government in implementing an Agenda for Action.
     The work of your committee, along with that of others, will make an
     important contribution to establishing the consensus and leadership
      focus needed to safeguard critical government and private sector
       services against both physical and cyber attacks. As we have so
    recently seen, the enemy is ruthlessly attacking economic targets our
    critical infrastructures in a misguided effort to bend our wills and
                           undermine our resolve.
       What are the Components of the Nations Critical Infrastructure?
    The United States has long depended on a complex of systems critical
     infrastructures to assure the delivery of vital services. Critical
       infrastructures comprise of those industries, institutions, and
   distribution networks and systems that provide a continual flow of the
      goods and services essential to the nations defense and economic
      security and to the health, welfare, and safety of its citizens.
   These infrastructures are deemed "critical" because their incapacity or
       destruction we are painfully witnessing this now - could have a
   debilitating regional or national impact. These infrastructures relate
                                     to:
     * Information and communications,
     * Electric power generation, transmission, and distribution,
     * Oil and gas production and distribution,
     * Banking and finance,
     * Transportation,
     * Water supply, and
     * Emergency government services.

     Critical infrastructure assurance is concerned with the readiness,
   reliability, and continuity of infrastructure services so that they are
     less vulnerable to disruptions, so that any impairment is of short
    duration and limited in scale, and that services are readily restored
                           when disruptions occur.
     To complicate matters further, each of the critical infrastructure
     sectors is becoming increasingly interdependent and interconnected.
    Disruptions in one sector are increasingly likely to affect adversely
   the operations of others. We are witnesses to that phenomenon now. The
   cascading fallout from the tragic events of September 11^th graphically
    makes the business case for critical infrastructure protection. That
    the loss of telecommunications services can impede financial service
    transactions and delivery of electric power is no longer an exercise
   scenario. There can be no e-commerce without "e" electricity. There can
                 be no e-commerce without e-communications.
    Our society, economy, and government are increasingly linked together
   into an ever-expanding national digital nervous system. Disruptions to
    that system, however and wherever they arise, can cascade well beyond
     the vicinity of the initial occurrence and can cause regional and,
                     potentially, national disturbances.
            Primary Threats to Critical Infrastructure Components
    Threats to critical infrastructure fall into two general categories:
     * Physical attacks against the "real property" components of the
       infrastructures; and
     * Cyber attacks against the information or communications components
       that control these infrastructures.

         Infrastructure owners and operators have always had primary
         responsibility for protecting their physical assets against
     unauthorized intruders. Yet these measures, however effective they
        might otherwise be, were generally not designed to cope with
   significant military or terrorist threats. Nor -- until recently -- did
   they have to be. The Defense Department, Justice Department, and other
       Federal agencies have contributed significantly to the physical
   protection of the nations critical infrastructures through the defense
      of our national airspace and borders against attacks from abroad.
       Clearly the events of September 11^th are going to require both
        government and industry to work together to deal with the new
                challenges of terrorism against our homeland.
     Securing the nations critical infrastructures against cyber attacks
    presents yet another difficult problem. The Federal government cannot
            post soldiers or police officers at the perimeters of
     telecommunications facilities or electric power plants to keep out
    digital attackers. There are no boundaries or borders in cyberspace.
    The vast majority of the nations infrastructures are privately owned
     and operated -- government action alone cannot secure them. Only an
   unprecedented partnership between private industry and government will
                                    work.
     Assuring delivery of critical infrastructure services is not a new
    requirement. Indeed, the need for owners and operators to manage the
   risks arising from service disruptions has existed for as long as there
                     have been critical infrastructures.
   What is new are the operational challenges to assured service delivery
       arising from an increased dependence on information systems and
    networks to operate critical infrastructures. This dependence exposes
     the infrastructures to new vulnerabilities. Individuals and groups
    seeking to exploit these vulnerabilities range from the recreational
       hacker to the terrorist to the nation state intent on obtaining
                            strategic advantage.
          The cyber tools needed to cause significant disruption to
   infrastructure operations are readily available. Within the last three
   years alone there has been a dramatic expansion of accessibility to the
   tools and techniques that can cause harm to critical infrastructures by
     electronic means. One does not have to be a "cyber terrorist" or an
      "information warrior" to obtain and use these new weapons of mass
   disruption. Those who can use these tools and techniques range from the
     recreational hacker to the terrorist to the nation state intent on
      obtaining strategic advantage. From the perspective of individual
   enterprises, the consequences of an attack can be the same, regardless
    of who the attacker is. Disruptions to the delivery of vital services
       resulting from attacks on critical infrastructures thus pose an
      unprecedented risk to national and economic security. What if the
   recent computer viruses Code Red and Nimda had hostile payloads in them
       and did more than just threaten the stability, reliability and
                       dependability of the Internet?
           Federal Entities Involved in Infrastructure Protection
   Taking the broad view, it would be accurate to say that each Department
    and Agency in the Federal government contributes to the objective of
    critical infrastructure assurance. The heads of executive departments
       and agencies are responsible and accountable for providing and
       maintaining appropriate levels of information systems security,
     emergency preparedness, continuity of operations, and continuity of
                government for programs under their control.
    Under Presidential Directive 63, the previous administration assigned
     overall responsibility for policy development and coordination for
      critical infrastructure assurance to the National Coordinator for
      Security, Infrastructure Protection, and Counter-Terrorism at the
                         National Security Council.
   PDD-63 established the National Infrastructure Protection Center (NIPC)
      housed at the FBI. NIPC serves as the nations threat assessment,
      warning, and incident response center for cyber attacks, and also
     facilitates law enforcement investigations of cyber-related crimes.
    PDD-63 also established the Critical Infrastructure Assurance Office
    (known as CIAO) as an interagency office located at the Department of
     Commerce to support the National Coordinator in carrying out these
               policy development and coordination functions.
   CIAOs responsibilities in developing and coordinating national critical
               infrastructure policy focus on three key areas:
     * Promoting national outreach and awareness campaigns both in the
       private sector and at the state and local government level;
     * Assisting Federal agency analyses of critical infrastructure
       dependencies; and
     * Coordinating the preparation of an integrated national strategy for
       critical infrastructure assurance.

   I want to share with you my views on what must be done and what we have
                                    done.
                         Promote National Awareness
      Our first responsibility is to raise national awareness about the
     problem of critical infrastructure assurance. The primary focus of
    these efforts has been on the critical infrastructure industries. The
      target audience has been the corporate boards and chief executive
   officers who are responsible for setting company policy and allocating
         company resources. The basic message has been that critical
    infrastructure assurance is a matter of corporate governance and risk
   management. Senior management must understand that they are responsible
   for securing corporate assets -- including information and information
   systems. Corporate boards must understand that they are accountable, as
    part of their fiduciary duties, to provide effective oversight of the
    development and implementation of appropriate infrastructure security
                        policies and best practices.
      Prior to September 11^th, the challenge of our national awareness
   effort was to present a compelling business case for corporate action.
       Government concerns about economic and national security, while
    important, were not generally viewed as sufficiently providing such a
     case. Threats of "cyber terrorism" and "information warfare," while
   legitimate, were not readily executable in the market they appeared too
      remote and irrelevant to a companys bottom-line. That has all now
                                  changed.
      The threats to critical infrastructure are being translated into
   business impact that corporate boards and senior management understand.
   Business impact includes operational survivability, shareholder value,
      customer relations, and public confidence. Corporate leaders are
     beginning to understand that the tools capable of disrupting their
    operations are readily available, and are not the monopoly of nation
     states. The risks to their companies are serious and immediate and,
                       thus, require prompt attention.
    In addition to infrastructure owners and operators, awareness efforts
    have also targeted other influential stakeholders in the economy. The
       risk management community -- including the audit and insurance
       professions -- is particularly effective in raising matters of
       corporate governance and accountability with boards and senior
      management. In addition, the investment community is increasingly
     interested in how information security practices affect shareholder
        value -- a concern of vital interest to corporate boards and
                                 management.
        Once the private sector acknowledges the problem of critical
    infrastructure assurance as one that it must solve through corporate
       governance and risk management, our role has been to facilitate
                              corporate action.
   The government should encourage appropriate information sharing within
      and among the infrastructure sectors and between the sectors and
           government. The information shared could include system
    vulnerabilities, cyber incidents, trend analyses, and best practices.
       The reason companies should be encouraged to share this kind of
   information is because by doing so they will obtain a more accurate and
     complete picture of their operational risks, as well as acquire the
               techniques and tools for managing those risks.
   The Federal government also should encourage the infrastructure sectors
   to work together on developing contingency plans for coordinating their
      responses in the event of major service disruptions, whatever the
   precipitating cause. As the infrastructures become more interdependent,
     there is a growing risk that restoration efforts undertaken by one
   sector could adversely affect the operations or restoration efforts of
      another, potentially contributing to further service disruptions.
    In addition, the government should work with industry in identifying
       potential legal and regulatory obstacles that may unduly impede
   information sharing or might otherwise interfere with voluntary efforts
   by the business community to maximize information security efforts. For
      example, some in industry have argued that voluntary information
    sharing cannot proceed to a fully mature corporate activity until the
    reach and impact of laws governing anti-trust and tort liability and
                the Freedom of Information Act are clarified.
    CIAO promotes activities that inform business and technology leaders
   across industry sectors of the need to manage the risks that accompany
     the benefits associated with reliance on information systems. CIAO
   focuses on initiatives that cut across industry sectors and are not the
                    existing responsibility of agencies.
       CIAOs outreach activities are reflected in the following major
                                initiatives:
     * he Partnership for Critical Infrastructure Security; and
     * Outreach to the business risk management community

   Partnership for Critical Infrastructure Security: As individual Federal
   agencies formed partnerships with each critical infrastructure sector,
       there emerged a need for cross-industry dialogue and sharing of
   experience to improve effectiveness and efficiency of individual sector
                             assurance efforts.
    The Partnership for Critical Infrastructure Security was convened in
   response to that expressed need. This partnership of over 70 companies
    provides a unique forum for government and private sector owners and
      operators of critical infrastructures to address issues of mutual
                            interest and concern.
         The Partnership also engages other stakeholders in critical
     infrastructure protection, including the risk management (audit and
      insurance), investment, and mainstream business communities. The
   Partnership, which builds upon public-private efforts already underway
    by the Federal Lead Agencies, is organized by industry for industry,
      with the U.S. Government acting as a catalyst and a participant.
   Major topics being addressed by the Partnership include: approaches to
     assessing interdependency vulnerabilities; multi-sector information
    sharing; legislative and public policy issues; research and workforce
    development; industry participation in preparing the emerging version
   of the national strategy; and outreach to state and local governments.
      Business Risk Management Community: The business risk management
     community, consisting of auditors, financial security analysts, the
      insurance community, the legal community, and financial reporting
    boards serve as unique channels of communication to senior leadership
     of industry. These groups work with industry in assessing business
   risks, communicating noteworthy changes to those risks, and supporting
                        the management of such risks.
   In that regard, CIAO implemented an awareness and education partnership
   with a consortium consisting of the Institute of Internal Auditors, the
   National Association of Corporate Directors, the American Institute of
     Certified Public Accountants and the Information Security Audit and
      Control Association. This consortium brought the involvement of a
    number of noted insurance firms, risk management professionals, legal
      counsel, corporate board members, audit experts, and Wall Street
                             security analysts.
      The consortium held a series of five regional conferences, called
    "Audit Summits." These meetings were hosted or sponsored by prominent
    companies, such as J.C. Penney, Home Depot, New York Life Insurance,
      Oracle Corporation, Arthur Anderson, Deloitte & Touché Tohmatsu,
    PriceWaterHouseCoopers, and KPMG. The target audiences were directors
       of corporate boards, chief auditors, and other corporate senior
    executives. The meetings produced a report that provided guidance for
          corporate boards on managing information security risks.
                     Federal Infrastructure Dependencies
   The Federal government is responsible for performing certain functions
   and delivering certain services essential to "providing for the common
      defense," "promoting the general welfare," and "insuring domestic
                                tranquility."
       Such functions and services are vital to advancing our national
     security, foreign affairs, economic prosperity and security, social
    health and welfare, and public law and order. Examples from the pages
                     of our nations newspapers include:
     * The mobilization of our Reserve Forces
     * The protection of the U.S. homeland
     * The projection of U.S. forces overseas
     * The ability to maintain critical government communications during
       crises involving national security or a national emergency
     * Timely warnings of potential terrorist or cyber-activist attack
     * And even something as basic but yet important to a significant
       segment of the population as the delivery of social security
       checks.

    Increasingly, these services depend ultimately on privately owned and
    operated infrastructures. To advance this vital Federal interest, the
         government must take a leading role and satisfy a number of
                                requirements.
              Each Federal department and agency must identify:
     * Its essential functions and services and the critical assets
       responsible for their performance;
     * All associated dependencies on assets located in other departments
       and agencies that are necessary to performance or delivery; and
     * All associated dependencies on privately owned and operated
       critical infrastructures that also are essential to performance or
       delivery of services.

      The CIAOs Project Matrix was developed to assist civilian Federal
                          agencies in this process.
      To illustrate, I will use the example of the Commerce Departments
     Tropical Prediction Center (the "TPC") in Miami, Florida, which is
          responsible for providing timely warnings of hurricanes.
    Incapacity or destruction of this essential government service could
   result in considerable loss of life and property. Indeed, thousands of
   people died during the Galveston, Texas hurricane of 1900 because there
     was no advance warning of the hurricanes approach and, thus, no one
   evacuated the city. In 1992, Hurricane Andrew would have been even more
     devastating than it was had the TPC not been able to provide timely
     information about the storm, thereby enabling thousands to evacuate
    from those areas where the storms predicted strength threatened to be
                                  greatest.
   Although the TPC is a critical asset, it does not operate in isolation;
    it depends on a variety of other government agency assets, as well as
     assets owned and operated by private government contractors. These
    include satellite imaging and analysis centers and radio transmission
              facilities located in Maryland and Pennsylvania.
   Operational disruptions at any one of these facilities could impede the
        delivery of timely hurricane warnings just as effectively as
                 operational disruptions at the TPC itself.
       Furthermore, the TPC depends on specific providers of critical
   infrastructure services to operate, including Florida Power & Light for
      electric power, and Bell South & MC 2000 for telecommunications.
   Disruptions to these services also could impede TPC operations that are
                  necessary to deliver hurricane warnings.
    Once such critical assets and associated dependencies are identified,
     Federal departments and agencies must assess their vulnerability to
     physical or cyber attack. If they are determined to be vulnerable,
   departments and agencies must develop and implement plans to manage the
      risks posed by potential attacks to the performance of essential
                           functions and services.
    These plans should seek to deter attacks from happening in the first
    place, protect critical assets from damage or destruction if attacks
       occur, mitigate the operational impact of attacks if protective
     measures fail, restore operations if attacks disrupt services, and
         reconstitute assets if damaged or destroyed during attacks.
      Where performance of essential government functions and services
      depends on privately owned and operated infrastructures, Federal
     departments and agencies must work with the owners and operators of
     these specific infrastructure companies -- on mutually agreed upon
      terms -- to ensure adequate security measures are established and
                                 maintained.
                     Development of a National Strategy
      A common vehicle of communicating overall critical infrastructure
   policy and strategy is essential. A national strategy developed jointly
    between government and industry is an effective means for arriving at
    an agreement about respective roles and responsibilities. The purpose
   of such a strategy is to present an integrated public-private strategy
    for government and industry to chart a common course toward achieving
   the overall goal of national critical infrastructure assurance. CIAO is
        currently in the process of preparing a national strategy in
      coordination with other Federal departments and agencies and the
                               private sector.
    The resulting document will serve not only as a guide for action, but
      also as a vehicle for creating consensus in Congress and with the
    American people on how to proceed. A national strategy will also help
    to establish the basis with the Congress and the American public for
   proposing legislative and public policy reforms where such reforms are
                     needed to advance national policy.
    The development of a national strategy should not be viewed as an end
    in itself. It should be part of a dynamic process in which government
    and industry continue to modify and refine their efforts at critical
    infrastructure assurance, adjust to new circumstances, and refine the
                      national strategy as appropriate.
                               Closing Remarks
   Thank you for the opportunity to share my views with you this morning.
                 I look forward to continuing our dialogue.



                               Privacy Notice
                   The Legal Stuff (disclaimer, security)

                               CIAO Home Page
                                Contact CIAO
                                 Email CIAO
