http://propulsid.laed.uscourts.gov/Orders/order4.pdf

   I 1 FltED NOV 2 1 2ooO 1 UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT EASTERN DISTRICT
   OF LOUISIANA . . MDL NO. 1355 IN RE: PROPULSID . . PRODUCTS LIABILITY
   LITIGATION : SECTION: L . . . . JUDGE FALLON . . MAG. JUDGE AFRICK THIS
   DOCUMENT RELATES TO ALL CASES: . . . . . . , . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . 9. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . * . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . PRETRIAL
   ORDER NO. q (Electronic Service) ON JOINT MOTION OF PLAINTIFFS' LIAISON
   COUNSEL AND DEFENDANTS' LIAISON COUNSEL IT IS HEREBY ORDERED: that
   whenever service is required by the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure,
   in lieu of the methods set forth in Rule 5(b) any party may "deliver a
   copy" of the document by following the procedure set forth below: 1. On
   the same day that any document is filed with the Clerk of Court for the
   United States District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana in
   this matter, a copy shall be sent to Verilaw Technologies, Inc.,
   located at 35 Chestnut Drive, Paoli, PA 19301,
   www.nronulsidmdl.verilaw.com, by (1) electronic transfer, (2) fax
   transmission- x-y, or (4) overnight m ail. Documents shall be addressed
   to Verilaw c/o the "Propulsid MDL 1355 Litigation Service List." 2.
   Verilaw will upload all documents (all references to "document" include
   exhibits, if any) into Adobe PDF electronic format onto an Internet
   website maintained by Verilaw and privately funded by the parties ("the
   Propulsid MDL 1355 Service Website"). Verilaw will post the documents
   within six business hours for electronic and fax documents, and within
   24 hours for documents provided in hard copy. All pleadings will be
   titled to clearly identity ( 1) the name of the filing party, (2) the
   name of the filing law firm, (3) the precise title ofthe pleadings, (4)
   the case-specific docket number(s) to which the pleading applies as per
   paragraph 8 of Pretrial Order No. 1, and (5) the date the pleading was
   filed with the Clerk of Court for the United States District Court for
   the Eastern District of Louisiana in MDL 1355. 3. Since word processing
   documents electronically transmitted to Verilaw will not contain a
   signature by counsel, in order to indicate that the document that was
   filed with the Court was, in fact, signed, the document electronically
   submitted to Verilaw shall contain a signature line with the phrase,
   "ORIGINAL SIGNED DOCUMENT ON FILE WITH THE COURT." 4. Only registered
   users will be able to access the Propulsid MDL 1355 Service Website.
   Registered users will be limited to counsel of record for any party in
   the consolidated MDL 1355. Plaintiffs' Liaison Counsel and Defendants'
   Liaison Counsel are responsible for providing Verilaw with an accurate
   e-mail address for each registered user. Registered users are required
   to provide to their respective Liaison Counsel an accurate e-mail
   address. Verilaw will provide each registered user with a usemame and
   password to access the Propulsid Service website. Plaintiffs counsel
   must complete the attached Verilaw Questionnaire setting forth accurate
   addresses and other relevant information as well as their preferred
   medium for receiving information, e.g., e-mail or facsimile, in order
   to become a registered -2- user. 5. All registered users shall be bound
   by any Confidentiality Order that this Court may issue. Verilaw will
   also be bound by the terms of said Confidentiality Order. 6. Within one
   hour ofposting the document, Verilaw shall send an e-mail to all
   registered users notifying them that the document has been posted. 7.
   Any document filed through the procedure outlined above shall certify
   in the Certificate of Service that a true and correct copy was
   delivered to all counsel of record by electronic service pursuant to
   the Court's Pretrial Order Regarding Electronic Service. 8. Any
   documents served pursuant to this Order shall be deemed to be served by
   mail under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 6(e). 9. This Order alters
   and modifies the provisions of paragraph IV.B. of Pretrial Order No. 2,
   to the extent that Liaison Counsel need only serve on each other one
   copy of any pleading, motion, or other document filed with the Court,
   together with a disc or CD-ROM in either WordPerfect format or
   Microsoft Word, and further that service and distribution by Liaison
   Counsel to other attorneys ofrecord shall be accomplished
   electronically through Verilaw in lieu of overnight courier service or
   telecopier. 10. Within thirty (30) days of the entry of this Order,
   Plaintiffs' Liaison Counsel and Defendants' Liaison Counsel shall
   submit proposal(s) to the Court regarding the filing of documents under
   seal that may contain discovery material covered by any Confidentiality
   Order that this Court might issue. -3- 11. Within thirty (30) days of
   the entry of this Order, Plaintiffs' Liaison Counsel and Defendants'
   Liaison Counsel shall submit proposal(s) to the Court regarding access
   to the Propulsid MDL 1355 Service Website by counsel in involving
   Propulsid. New Orleans, Louisiana, this th -4- Bar Number Party
   Representing Direct Dial No. Cell Phone Pager E-mail Secretary Name
   Paralegal Name Firm Name Address City State Zip Phone Fax E-mail Other
   members of firm involved in this litigation: Address City State Zip I
   elect to have Plaintiffs Liaison Counsel transmit documents to me
   E-Mail - via: Fax 1 do not want to receive orders or other Please
   transmit to the following: E-mail address: Fax number: Signed Date
