http://www.ia.nrcs.usda.gov/Technical/iowaplanning.pdf

   United States Natural 210 Walnut Street Department of Resources 693
   Federal Building Agriculture Conservation Des Moines, IA 50309-2180
   Service November 8, 2001 GENERAL MANUAL (GM) 180 - CPA AMENDMENT IA12
   (Part 409) SUBJECT: CPA - IOWA AMENDMENTS TO NATIONAL CONSERVATION
   PLANNING POLICY Purpose. To provide Iowa information to supplement the
   revised Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) of Iowa
   Conservation Planning Policy contained in the GM 180, Part 409,
   Amendment 19 dated June 2001. Effective Date. Upon receipt. Explanation
   of changes. This Iowa material supplements, but attempts not to repeat,
   policy contained in the National Policy. Therefore, to understand the
   complete policy, one must refer to both the National Conservation
   Planning Policy and the Iowa Supplement. The National Conservation
   Planning Policy can be found at www.nrcs.usda.gov. Click on Quick Links
   and select Directives System, then select General Manual. /s/Leroy
   Brown State Conservationist Attachment GM AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
   CONSERVATION PLANNING AND APPLICATION CONTENTS PART 409  CONSERVATION
   PLANNING POLICY Part 409.0 General Part 409.1 Conservation Planning
   Objectives Part 409.2 Conservation Planning Assistance Delivery Part
   409.3 Requirements for Providing Conservation Planning Assistance Part
   409.4 Planning on Units that Cross a State, County, or Field Office
   Boundary Part 409.5 Documentation of Conservation Planning Data Part
   409.6 Conservation Planning Assistance that may have International
   Impacts Part 409.7 Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) of 1966 and
   Privacy Act (PA) of 1974 Part 409.8 Public Participation in the
   Planning Process Part 409.9 Minimum Criteria to Achieve an NRCS
   Certified Conservation Planner Designation Part 409.10 Minimum
   Standards for Providers of Conservation Technical Assistance Associated
   with Comprehensive Nutrient Management Plans 180-GM, IA Amend 12, Nov.
   2001 IA GM.180.409.0-1 CONSERVATION PLANNING AND APPLICATION PART 409
   Conservation Planning Policy IA409.3 Requirements for Providing
   Conservation Planning Assistance (a) All Iowa NRCS soil
   conservationists will be trained to posses the knowledge, skills, and
   abilities necessary for the soil conservationist to become a certified
   Natural Resource Planner (IA409.9). (3) Iowa will have certified
   Natural Resource Planners and certified Coaches of Natural Resource
   Planners. (i) (A) A certified Natural Resource Planner is a person who
   possesses the necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities gained through
   education, and experience, to implement the nine-step NRCS planning
   process in developing resource management system alternatives to meet
   client objectives in solving natural resource problems. (B) The
   certified planner assists clients to identify resource problems, to
   express the client's objective, proposes feasible solutions to the
   resource problems, and assists the client in development of a feasible
   system which overcomes resource concerns and meets client objectives.
   (ii) A certified Coach is an NRCS employee who is a certified Natural
   Resource Planner per (a)(3)(i) and: (A) Is able to certify that a
   person is at knowledge, skills, and ability (KSA) levels as needed to
   be certified in the content of modules 1-9 of the NRCS conservation
   planning course requirements and requirements of IA409.9. (B) Is able
   to evaluate a persons planning ability with clients in the field. (C)
   If, as a result of field reviews, a person does not possess the KSA's
   needed to be a Conservation Planner, the Coach is able to tell the
   person they are not ready to be certified and list what must be
   achieved in order to be certified. (D) Is able to review the employee
   development plan to assure continuous professional improvement (CPI)
   has been scheduled (E) Is able to review CAMS to see that training is
   being completed. (F) Is able to review PRMS to assure that RMS plans
   are being developed. (c) (1) Completion of course work, attaining
   KSA's, successfully passing the training post-test, and field coaching
   is necessary for an individual to be recommended for certification
   status. Supervisors of recently employed soil conservationists will
   utilize the soil conservationist KSA Quality Guidelines and example
   soil conservationist IDP guidelines to help attain the certification
   status in a timely manner. 180-GM, IA Amend 12, Nov. 2001 IA
   GM.180.409.3-8 PART 409  Conservation Planning Policy IA409.3 (d)
   Assistant State Conservationist  Field Operations (AFO) will recommend
   to the State Conservationist those conservationists and partner
   employees who meet the criteria in Part 409.9 and Part IA409.9. The
   State Conservationist will notify the AFO and conservationist of the
   certification decision and enter that person on the official Certified
   Natural Resource Conservation Planner database maintained in the State
   Office. (1) Any partner employee to be certified must be the equivalent
   to the NRCS soil conservationist position in education and position
   description. Minimum basic educational requirements are: 30 semester
   hours in a variety of natural resource disciplines such as soil
   conservation, agronomy, soil science, biology, forestry, agricultural
   education, agricultural engineering, etc. Of the 30, at least 12 must
   be in a combination of soils and crops or plant sciences with
   appropriate experience or additional education. Of the 12, three must
   be in soil science, and three in crops or plant sciences. (2) IDALS-DSC
   can request their employees to be included in NRCS sponsored training
   courses in order to become more qualified to be certified. IDALS-DSC,
   environmental specialists candidates for certification will be
   identified jointly by the field representative and district
   conservationist and be approved by the ASTC-FO. (3) District employees,
   equivalent to the NRCS GS-9 soil conservationist, will be jointly
   identified by the soil and water conservation district and the district
   conservationist, and be approved by the ASTC-FO. (4) Generally,
   volunteers will not be certified planners. 180-GM, IA Amend 12, Nov.
   2001 IA.GM.180.409.3-9 PART 409  Conservation Planning Policy IA409.3
   (e) (1) Members of approved non-NRCS sources in Iowa will be provided
   NRCS assistance, as available to assist their members to attain the
   certified Natural Resource Planner designation. (2) NRCS assistance to
   individuals who are not NRCS partner employees or members of approved
   non-NRCS sources to become certified Natural Resource Planners will be
   limited due to agency resources. Requests will be considered on a
   case-by-case basis and be acted upon based upon agency workload
   priorities and budgeting constraints. 180-GM, IA Amend 12, Nov. 2001
   IA.GM.180.409.3-10 CONSERVATION PLANNING AND APPLICATION PART 409
   Conservation Planning Policy IA409.4 Planning on Units that Cross a
   State, County, or Field Office Boundary (a) Assistant State
   Conservationists  FO will inform the State Conservationist when
   questions arise pertaining to providing service across state lines. The
   State Conservationist will address the situation of delivery with the
   neighboring State Conservationist to resolve the servicing issue and
   inform the Assistant State Conservationist-FO of the decision. 180-GM,
   IA Amend 12, Nov. 2001 IA.GM.180.409-4.11 CONSERVATION PLANNING AND
   APPLICATION PART 409  Conservation Planning Policy IA409.5
   Documentation of Conservation Planning Data For plans being developed
   to result in a conservation program contract, adequate survey and
   conservation practice designs and specifications will be completed to
   assure that an accurate cost estimate has been completed when the plan
   is developed into a contract and delivered to the client. For all other
   conservation plans, if these materials aren't provided at the time of
   plan delivery, they are provided to the client well in advance of the
   planned implementation date. 180-GM, IA Amend 12, Nov. 2001
   IA.GM.180.409-4.12 CONSERVATION PLANNING AND APPLICATION PART 409
   Conservation Planning Policy IA409.9 Minimum Criteria to Achieve an
   NRCS Certified Conservation Planner Designation (a) (1) Modules 1-5 of
   the NRCS Planning Course will be followed by a one-day training session
   which will require 80 percent or better on a test taken at the end of
   the session. Certified Natural Resource Planners will have KSA levels
   for "Topic 1" of IA409.9(c) certified by a certified coach of Natural
   Resource Planners. (2) Modules 6-9 skills will be demonstrated during
   the on-site review (409.9(d)) session with the client and a certified
   Coach. 180-GM, IA Amend 12, Nov. 2001 IA.GM.180.409-16(1) PART 409
   Conservation Planning Policy IA409.9 (c) (1) A person certified as a
   Natural Resource Conservation Planner or NRCS employee certified as a
   Coach of Natural Resource Planners in Iowa must attain KSA levels per
   the following: Level for Level for Certified Certified Topic Planner
   Coach References 1 Understanding and application of NRCS 4 5 ~ General
   Manual 180 Part 409 planning policy and procedures. ~ National Planning
   Procedures Handbook 2 Utilize NRCS planning process to plan for the
   following, common to clients within the work area: i. Crop production
   including nutrient 4 4 ~ Applicable standards management ~ Agronomy
   Technical Notes ~ Standard 590 ii. Livestock production including
   nutrient 4 4 ~ Comprehensive Nutrient management Management Planning
   Technical Guidance ~ Applicable standards ~ Ag. Waste Mgmt. Field
   Handbook ~ Agronomy Technical Notes ~ National Range and Pasture
   Handbook ~ Standard 590 iii. Wildlife management 4 4 Biology Technical
   Notes, standards iv. Forestry production 3 4 Woodland Technical Notes,
   Standards 3 Soil quality concepts. 4 5 Soil Quality Technical Notes
   (particularly Note 1) 4 Principles of soil erosion. 4 5 FOTG Section I,
   RUSLE, Wind Erosion Equation 5 Planning of practices for soil erosion
   control 4 5 ~ Engineering Field Handbook common to the work area. ~
   FOTG Section IV ~ National Handbook of Conservation Practices 6
   Principles of water quality 4 5 ~ Materials included in the
   protection/enhancement common to the National Employee work area.
   Development (NEDC) "Introduction to Water Quality Training Program." ~
   Site Vulnerability Assessment tools (N, P, Stream) 7 RMS levels for all
   resources common to the 4 5 FOTG, Section III work area. 8 Quality
   criteria and effects. 4 5 FOTG, Section III Additional for NRCS and
   Partnership employees: 9 Current NRCS approved software for 4 4
   Customer Service Toolkit Manual electronic plan documentation. 10
   Partnership Accountability System. 4 4 PRMS Manual KSA Level
   Descriptions: 1 Aware 4 Apply Independently 2 Understand 5 Proficient
   and Can Train Others 3 Perform with Supervision (2) Attainment of these
   ten (10) KSA levels must be certified by the person designated as the
   NRCS or partner employee technical supervisor, or the certifying groups
   for approved third party vendors. 180-GM, IA Amend 12, Nov. 2001
   IA.GM.180.409-9.16(2) PART 409  Conservation Planning Policy IA409.9
   (d) (3) (i) The one site review between the certified coach, the
   certified planner candidate, and client will assure adherence to NRCS
   planning policy of helping the client achieve sound use and management
   of soil, water, air, plant, and animal resources to prevent their
   degradation, and assure their sustained use and productivity, while
   considering economic and social needs. Planning to an RMS level is
   necessary to meet this sustained use of the resources. (ii) The NRCS
   objective in providing assistance is to help each client attain a RMS
   level of treatment through the conservation planning process. (iii)
   When the client is not ready to make decisions to the RMS level,
   progressive planning is utilized. In these situations the NRCS
   responsibility is to provide the client with, as a minimum, comparisons
   of the resource impacts between an RMS system and the benchmark
   (present) condition, as well as a comparison between the system chosen
   by the decision- maker and the benchmark condition. This provides the
   decision-maker with a comparison of the difference in projected impacts
   between the RMS system and the system chosen. Information on these
   effects will be provided to the client and be documented in the case
   file. Conservation decisions will also be documented in the case file.
   Future assistance will be directed toward planning at an RMS level on
   the entire planning unit. The rate of progress depends on the client's
   objectives and ability to make and implement conservation decisions,
   based on the resource, economic, social, and policy issues the client
   is dealing with. (iv) Certified coaches are to assure that the
   candidate possesses the skills to provide RMS level alternatives to the
   client and to strive for such decisions with the client. If the client
   is not yet ready for RMS level, the coach will certify that the
   candidate utilized such skills and documented the client decision and
   RMS level and benchmarks as required. (v) Prospective certified coaches
   will also be observed in a conservation planning situation with a
   client in the field by an Assistant State Conservationist for Field
   Operations (ASTC-FO). Candidates for a coach will not be certified
   until the ASTC-FO certifies attainment of skills per IA409.9(d)(3) and
   the supervisor certifies KSA levels per IA409.9(c). (4) The completed
   plan from the field review with the Coach or ASTC-FO will be approved
   by, and signed by, the Coach or ASTC-FO prior to delivery to the client
   and prior to certification. 180-GM, IA Amend 12, Nov. 2001
   IA.GM.180.409.9-17(1) PART 409  Conservation Planning Policy Part 409.9
   (e) (1) (i) After attaining Certified Natural Resource Conservation
   Planner or Coaching status, the certified planner or coach must plan
   for and maintain a record of completing 180 hours of Continuous
   Professional Improvement (CPI) over the 3 year period of the
   certification planned. This training can be either technical or
   management related and must be documented as planned on the employee's
   Individual Development Plan (IDP). This training may be obtained
   through agency sessions, professional organizations, development and
   presentation of technical papers/posters at a state level or larger
   technical conference, formal course work, or other approved means.
   Acceptable categories are: A) Human relations skills ( may be up to 40
   hours) B) Technical knowledge to improve skills such as: I) nutrient
   management II) pest management III) crop production IV) grazing
   systems, V) animal production, including waste management VI) water
   quality practices, VII) erosion processes and practices to control
   erosion, VIII) wildlife management, IX) area wide resource planning
   processes, X) soil quality, and XI) forestry production XII) wetland
   restoration XIII) water management Examples of activities NOT allowable
   are: Regular employment activities/policies Toastmasters club meetings
   Service club meetings or activities Personal estate planning Banquet
   speeches Professional society business meetings Financial
   planning/investment seminars Foreign travel Real estate licensing
   courses Stress management Trade shows (ii) Over the 3-year period: A)
   Certified planners must develop at least 25 resource management system
   plans with clients, with a minimum of 7 per year. B) Certified coaches
   must review at least 25 RMS plans, at least 10 of which must be with a
   certified planner and client in the field, with a minimum of three per
   year. (iii) Employees will utilize the Combined Administrative
   Management System (CAMS) to document that this training has been
   completed. Each individual will enter the training certification into
   CAMS. Partner employees may use CAMS or the system in use by their
   employer. 180-GM, IA Amend 12, Nov. 2001 IA.GM.180.409.9-17(2) PART 409
    Conservation Planning Policy Part 409.9 (f) (1) The ASTC-FO will
   establish a system to ensure that each Certified Natural Resource
   Conservation Planner has RMS plans reviewed at least once every three
   years. (2) At least five plans should be reviewed. At least two must be
   on-site field reviews with the client. The review must include a review
   of the IDP and CAMS to assure that the planner has planned for and met
   CPI requirements. (3) The ASTC-FO's will submit reports of these
   reviews to the State Conservationist listing the name, title, location,
   and recommendation to retain or remove status from the certified
   natural resource conservation planner list. 180-GM, IA Amend 12, Nov.
   2001 IA.GM.180.409.9-17(3) CONSERVATION PLANNING AND APPLICATION PART
   409  Conservation Planning Policy IA409.10 IA Supplemental Minimum
   Standards for Providers of Conservation Technical Assistance Associated
   with Comprehensive Nutrient Management Plans IA Supplemental
   Requirements for all Certified Specialist Designations. (f) (1) (i) A)
   Complete Modules 1-5 of NRCS Conservation Planning Course via Internet
   (NEDC). B) Attain 80% completion rate of post-test on Modules 1-5. (ii)
   Complete the NRCS Agricultural Waste Management Systems -- A Primer
   Course via NEDC. 180-GM, IA Amend 12, Nov. 2001 IA.GM.180.409.10-19
   PART 409  Conservation Planning Policy IA409.10 IA Supplemental
   Requirements for Manure and Wastewater Handling and Storage. (2) (i) A)
   Attain Knowledge, Skills and Ability (KSA) levels per the following:
   Level for Certified Topic Specialist References Be able to plan a waste
   management system that 4 ~ NRCS Field Office Technical Guide may
   include but be not limited to waste storage ~ Ag. Waste Management
   Field facility, sediment basins, waste treatment lagoons, Handbook
   waste transfer, diversions, dikes, composting ~ Job Approval Authority
   or facility, pond sealing or lining, roof runoff equivalent management,
   and filter strips. Criteria for elements Section 4.2.1.1 of NRCS 4 NRCS
   Comprehensive Nutrient CNMP Technical Guidance Management Planning
   Technical Guidance Applicable local, state, and federal laws and 3 Iowa
   Administrative Code 567 regulations Chapter 65 KSA Description: 1 Aware
   4 Apply Independently 2 Understand 5 Proficient and Can Train Others 3
   Perform with Supervision B) Complete the NRCS Agricultural Waste
   Management Systems  Level 2 Course via the Internet (NEDC). C) Complete
   a Waste Management Plan with a client in the field with a Certified
   Planner/Coach and be recommended for certification as a specialist by
   the Planner/Coach. 180-GM, IA Amend 12, Nov. 2001
   IA.GM.180.409.10-20(1) PART 409  Conservation Planning Policy
   IA409.10(f) IA Supplemental Requirements for Certified Specialists in
   Land Treatment Practices (f) (2) (ii) A) Attain Knowledge, Skills and
   Ability (KSA) levels per the following: Level for Certified Topic
   Specialis References t Principles of soil erosion 4 Field Office
   Technical Guide - Section I; RUSLE; Wind Erosion equation Planning of
   practices for soil erosion control 4 ~ Engineering Field Handbook
   common to the work area ~ FOTG Section IV ~ National Handbook of
   Conservation Practices Principles of water quality protection/
   enhancement 4 Materials included in the NEDC "Introduction to Water
   common to the work area Quality" Course Nitrogen and phosphorus site
   vulnerability tools 4 Standard 590, Iowa Agronomy Technical Note No. 25
   Soil quality concepts 4 Soil Quality Technical Notes (particularly Note
   1) Criteria for elements in Section 4.2.2.1 of NRCS 4 NRCS
   Comprehensive Nutrient Management Planning CNMP Technical Guidance
   Technical Guidance Applicable local, state, and federal laws and 3 Iowa
   Administrative Code 567, Chapter 65 regulations KSA Description: 1
   Aware 4 Apply Independently 2 Understand 5 Proficient and Can Train
   Others 3 Perform with Supervision C) Complete a plan which addresses
   quality criteria to the RMS level for soil erosion and water quality in
   the field with a client and Certified Planner/Coach and be recommended
   for certification as a specialists by the Planner/Coach. D) Recommended
   for certification as a specialists by the Planner/Coach. 180-GM, IA
   Amend 12, Nov. 2001 IA.GM.180.409.10-20(2) PART 409  Conservation
   Planning Policy IA409.10(f) IA Supplemental Iowa Requirements for
   Certified Specialists in Nutrient Management (f) (2) (iii) A) Attain
   Knowledge, Skills, and Ability (KSA) levels per the following: Level
   for Certified Topic Specialis References t Principles of water quality
   protection/ enhancement 4 Materials included in the NEDC "Introduction
   to Water common to the work area Quality" Course Nitrogen and
   phosphorus site vulnerability tools 4 Standard 590, Iowa Agronomy
   Technical Note No. 25 Nutrient management concepts 4 Nutrient
   Management Track, Modules 1- 6 of the NRCS Nutrient and Pest Management
   Considerations in Conservation Planning Course via Internet (NEDC) and
   successfully pass the post-test. Skill in development of a Nutrient
   Management 4 2 day facilitated session and Module 7 of the NRCS Plan
   Nutrient and Pest Management Considerations in Conservation Planning
   Course. Criteria for elements in Section 4.2.3.1 of NRCS 4 NRCS
   Comprehensive Nutrient Management Planning CNMP Technical Guidance
   Technical Guidance Applicable local, state, and federal laws and 3 Iowa
   Administrative Code 567, Chapter 65 regulations KSA Description: 1
   Aware 4 Apply Independently 2 Understand 5 Proficient and Can Train
   Others 3 Perform with Supervision 180-GM, IA Amend 12, Nov. 2001
   IA.GM.180.409.10-20(3) PART 409  Conservation Planning Policy IA409.10
   IA Supplemental for Certified Specialists in Nutrient Management C)
   Complete a nutrient management component of a conservation plan in the
   field with a client and Certified Planner/Coach and submit for review.
   Be recommended for certification as a specialist by the Planner/Coach.
   D) Submit one plan for review by the facilitator of the group session
   associated with the NRCS Nutrient and Pest Management Consolidation
   Course and be recommended for the certification by the facilitator. (h)
   Continuous Professional Improvement will be required for all certified
   CNMP Specialists in order to maintain certification. (1) Maintain a
   record (IDP for employees) showing plans to meeting the following
   continuous professional improvement (CPI) requirements: (i) Completion
   of 60 hours of training over the 3-year period in the specific
   element(s) in which the specialist is certified. (ii) For a specialist
   certified in more than one element, at least 20 hours of CPI training
   must be specific to each element for which they are certified. (iii)
   Maintain training record (in CAMS for employees) to show CPI has been
   attained. (2) Develop at least 20 plans for the element of
   certification during the 3-year certification period; a minimum of six
   per year; at least one being an in field review with the client with a
   Certified Planner or Coach. (i) In quality assurance, certified coaches
   or planners will review at least five plans in each specialists area
   over the three year period. At least one will be in the field with a
   client. 180-GM, IA Amend 12, Nov. 2001 IA.GM.180.409.10-21 CONSERVATION
   PLANNING AND APPLICATION PART 409  Conservation Planning Policy
   IA409.11 IA Supplemental Minimum Criteria for Providers of Conservation
   Technical Assistance Associated with Conservation Planning that
   includes Pest Management. (f) To assure Professional Competency,
   requirements for Continuous Professional Improvement are: (1) Maintain
   a record (IDP for employees) documenting plans to meeting the following
   continuous professional improvement (CPI) requirements: (i) Completion
   of 60 hours of training over the 3-year period. (ii) Develop at least
   20 plans during the three year certification period with a minimum of
   six per year with at least one being an in field review with the client
   with a Certified Planner present. (iii) The CPI training must be
   related to pest management. (2) Maintain training record (in CAMS for
   employees) to show CPI has been attained. (h) (1) (i) Complete Modules
   1-5 of NRCS Conservation Planning Course via Internet (NEDC). (ii)
   Attain 80% correct on post-test of Modules 1-5. (2) Attain Knowledge,
   Skills and Ability (KSA) levels per the following: Level for Certified
   Topic Specialist References Utilize NRCS planning process to plan for
   the 4 following, common to clients within the work area: i. Crop
   production ii. Livestock production ~ Agronomy Technical Notes ~
   Agronomy Technical Notes ~ Pasture Handbook RMS levels for crop and
   pasture production 4 FOTG, Section III Principles of water quality
   protection/ enhancement 4 Materials included in the NEDC common to the
   work area "Introduction to Water Quality" Course Pest management
   concepts 4 Pest Management Track, Modules 1-6 of the NRCS Nutrient and
   Pest Management Considerations in Conservation Planning course via
   Internet (NEDC) and successfully pass the post-test. Skill in
   development of a Pest Management Plan, 4 1-1/2 day facilitated session
   and Module 7 including utilization of a pesticide environmental of the
   NRCS Nutrient and Pest Management risk screening tool Considerations in
   Conservation Planning Course which includes use of Windows Pesticide
   Screening Tool (WIN-PST) Criteria listed in Pest Management standard
   595 4 FOTG -- Section IV Applicable local, state, and federal laws and
   3 Iowa Administrative Code regulations KSA Description: 1 Aware 3
   Perform with Supervision 5 Proficient and Can Train Others 2 Understand
   4 Apply Independently 180-GM, IA Amend 12, Nov. 2001
   IA.GM.180.409.11-23 PART 409  Conservation Planning Policy IA409.11(5)
   IA Supplemental Minimum Criteria for Providing of Conservation
   Technical Assistance Associated with Conservation Planning that
   includes Pest Management (5) Complete a pest-management component of a
   conservation plan in the field with a client and Certified
   Planner/Coach. Be recommended for certification by the Planner/Coach.
   180-GM, IA Amend 12, Nov. 2001 IA.GM.180.409.11-24 CONSERVATION
   PLANNING AND APPLICATION PART 409  Conservation Planning Policy
   IA409.12 Iowa Requirements for Certification Specialist in Wetland
   Restoration (a) All plans completed by a specialist will be reviewed
   and approved by a certified conservation planner. (b) Complete Modules
   1-5 of NRCS Conservation Planning Course. (c) Attain 80% completion of
   a test related to Modules 1-5. (d) Attain the following KSA's: Topic
   Level Reference ~ Applicable local, state, and federal laws 3
   associated with wetlands and wetland development ~ Wetland Restoration,
   Creation, and Enhancement 4 FOTG Standard 657, 658, 659 Standard ~
   Wildlife habitat development and maintenance 4 Biology Tech. Notes (e)
   Complete a plan in the field with a certified Planner/Coach and be
   recommended for certification by the Planner/Coach. (f) Maintain an IDP
   showing plans to meeting the following continuous professional
   improvement (CPI) requirements: (1) Completion of 40 hours over the
   3-year period in wetland development, management. (2) Implement 10
   restoration plans over the 3-year period, with at least three per year.
   (g) Maintain training record in CAMS to show CPI has been attained.
   180-GM, IA Amend 12, Nov. 2001 IA.GM.180.409.12-25
