http://www.inel.gov/notices/

   Idaho National Engineering and Environmental Laboratory
   Security/Privacy
   HOME | Site Index | Staff Directory | Jobs | Contact Us
   _______________ [go.gif]


   Idaho National Engineering and Environmental Laboratory Home Page

                                  Wednesday
                              January 30, 2002


   INEEL Privacy and Security Notice

   Thank you for visiting Idaho National Engineering and Environmental
   Laboratorys (INEEL) web site. We respect the need to protect your
   privacy. We collect no personal information about you when you visit
   our site unless you choose to provide that information to us under
   specific instances, such as in an e-mail.
   What you should know about visiting our web site:
     * Information we collect and store automatically
     * Sending us your personal or confidential information
     * Security notice
     * General disclaimer
     * Links to other sites
     * Feedback

   Return to where you were.

   Information we collect and store automatically
   INEEL collects and stores the following information automatically:
     * Internet Protocol (IP) address of the domain from which you access
       the Internet (e.g., 123.456.789.012), whether yours individually or
       provided as a proxy by your Internet Service Provider (ISP).
     * Date and time you accessed our site.
     * Pages you visit.
     * Internet address of the web site from which you came to our site.
     * The browser name and version you are using.

   We use summary statistics to help us make our site more useful, such as
   assessing what information is of most and least interest to visitors,
   and for other purposes such as determining the site's technical design
   specifications and identifying system performance or problem areas.

   Parts of our site use cookies to improve your experience. A cookie
   contains information that is either stored in your computers memory, or
   in a file on your computers hard disk. Cookies that are stored in your
   computers memory are automatically removed when you quit your browser.
   Cookies that are stored in a file on your computers hard disk will have
   an expiration date after which time they will no longer be valid. It is
   our policy to notify you and obtain your approval before a cookie is
   stored on your computer, to explain what the cookie collects, and how
   the information is used. If you encounter a cookie that does not
   terminate upon ending a session at an inel.gov web site without your
   approving of its use and there is no explanation or the explanation is
   not clear or reasonable please let us know.
   For additional information about cookie usage on Federal web sites,
   please visit the following:
     * Department of Energy's computer Incident Advisory Capability (CIAC)
       Bulletin I-034: Internet Cookies
     * OMB Memorandum 99-18 "Privacy Policies on Federal Web Sites dated
       June 2, 1999

   Top of Page

   Sending us personal or confidential information

   If you choose to provide us with personal information - by sending us
   an e-mail or by filling out an online form with your personal
   information and submitting it to us through our web site - please be
   aware that we may use that information to
     * Respond to your message
     * Help gather the requested information.

   We do not create individual profiles with the information you provide.
   We do not collect information for commercial marketing. However, the
   material you submit may be seen by various people and collected, such
   as:
     * We may enter the information you send into our electronic database.
     * Share it with our attorneys and/or INEEL staff.
     * We may also share it with other government agencies and parties who
       have an interest in the activities and mission of the INEEL.

   Also, e-mail and online forms are not secure against interception and
   senders can not expect privacy. If you consider your communication
   business sensitive - or it includes personal information like your bank
   account, charge card, or social security number - you might want to
   send it by postal mail instead to the following address:

     INEEL
     P.O. Box 1625
     Idaho Falls, ID 83415

   To send proprietary information to the INEEL that must be treated
   confidentially, please contact the Technology Transfer and
   Commercialization Office at (208) 526-4299.
   Top of Page

   Security notice

   This web site is part of a Federal computer system used to accomplish
   Federal functions. The Department of Energy monitors this web site for
   security purposes to ensure it remains available to all users and to
   protect information in the system. By accessing this web site, you are
   expressly consenting to these monitoring activities.

   Unauthorized attempts to defeat or circumvent security features, to use
   the systems for other than intended purposes, to deny service to
   authorized users, to access, obtain, alter, damage, or destroy
   information, or otherwise to interfere with the system or its operation
   are prohibited. Evidence of such acts may be disclosed to law
   enforcement authorities and result in criminal prosecution under the
   Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986 (Pub. L. 99-474) and the National
   Information Infrastructure Protection Act of 1996 (Pub. L. 104-294),
   (18 U.S.C. 1030), or other applicable criminal laws.
   Top of Page

   General disclaimer

   WITH RESPECT TO INFORMATION FROM THIS SERVER, NEITHER THE UNITED STATES
   GOVERNMENT NOR BECHTEL BWXT IDAHO, LLC (BBWI) NOR ANY OF THEIR
   EMPLOYEES, MAKES ANY WARRANTY, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING THE
   WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OR
   ASSUMES ANY LEGAL LIABILITY OR RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ACCURACY,
   COMPLETENESS, OR USEFULNESS OF ANY SUCH INFORMATION, OR OF ANY
   APPARATUS, PRODUCT, OR PROCESS DISCLOSED, OR REPRESENTS THAT ITS USE
   WOULD NOT INFRINGE PRIVATELY OWNED RIGHTS. Reference to any specific
   commercial product, process, or service by trade name, trademark,
   manufacturer, or otherwise does not necessarily constitute or imply its
   endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States
   Government or BBWI. The views and opinions of authors expressed on this
   web site do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States
   Government or any agency and shall not be used for advertising or
   product endorsement purposes.
   Top of Page

   Links to other sites

   This web site has links to many other Federal agencies. In a few cases
   we link to private organizations. Once you link to another site, you
   are subject to the privacy policy of the new site.
   Top of Page

   Feedback

   We welcome your feedback at any time.
   Top of Page

   [pixel.gif] [pixel_blk.gif]
   [pixel.gif] [pixel_grn.gif]
   Updated: Tuesday, August 28, 2001
   For general inquiries about the INEEL, please call 1-800-708-2680.
   © 2002 Bechtel BWXT Idaho, LLC. All rights reserved.
   Bechtel BWXT Idaho, LLC is an EEO/AA employer.
   Feedback
   The INEEL is operated for the DOE by Bechtel BWXT Idaho, LLC.
   Click to visit DOE's website.
