http://www.honolulu-pacific.feb.gov/councils.htm


   [MINNESOTA_SEAL.gif]

                                                  HONOLULU-PACIFIC

                                               FEDERAL EXECUTIVE BOARD

                                               COMMITTEES AND COUNCILS

                                 [rain.gif]

   Work of the Federal Executive Board is carried out primarily through
   the following standing committees/ councils. Chairs of these
   committees/councils are elected or appointed by the FEB Chair.
   Selection of membership and organization of the committees/councils are
   at the discretion of the chairs. Size and composition of the
   committees/councils are influenced by the nature of the programs and
   the skills and expertise required to accomplish the objectives.
   Committee/council chairs are normally appointed or elected for one
   fiscal year term, but occasionally may be asked to serve longer.

   Equal Employment Opportunity Council

   Provides a forum for EEO personnel within the federal community to
   acquire the skills, knowledge and abilities to become proficient in
   their positions, thereby enhancing equal employment opportunities
   within the federal establishments in Hawaii. In conjunction with the
   EEO Council are two associated committees (Hispanic Employment
   Committee and Individuals with Disabilities Committee) and one council
   (Federal Women's Council, Hawaii).  Chairman: Edward H. Young, Jr.,
   National Weather Service, 532-6412, edward.young@noaa.gov; Vice Chair:
   Mary Okano, U.S. Marine Forces Pacific, 477-8680, okanoma@mfp.usmc.mil

     Federal Women's Council, Hawaii

     An action program established to enhance employment and
     advancement      opportunities for women in federal service.
     President:  Suzanne Keyser, Immigration and Naturalization Service,
     861-8400, zoraya@hawaii.rr.com;  Vice President:  Laine Skeindel,
     U.S. Pacific Command,  477-0209, laskiend@hq.pacom.mil

     Hispanic Employment Committee

     Serves as an organizational liaison to provide information regarding
     the needs and concerns of Hispanics in their respective
     organizations; initiates actions and programs to enhance career
     development of Hispanics; and plans and publicizes special events to
     recognize the employment and accomplishments of Hispanics.

     Individuals with Disabilities Committee

     Assists Federal agencies in meeting the statutory and regulatory
     requirements for the placement of the disabled and the removal of
     equipment and barriers affecting the disabled.  Also plans, promotes
     and publicizes special events to recognize the employment and
     accomplishments of persons with disabilities.

   Excellence in Federal Government Awards Committee

   Focuses on the dedication and service of federal military and civilian
   personnel. Special recognition is given to outstanding achievements by
   federal employees and those individuals outside the federal government
   at an awards luncheon. It also highlights the activities of government
   and helps to foster understanding among federal agencies and the
   community at large. Chair: Anita Coit, Matsunaga VA Medical and
   Regional Office Center, 433-0443, jacqueline.coit@med.va.gov

   Federal Human Resources Council of the Pacific

   Acts as a forum for federal personnel offices to share resources and
   experiences on the full range of personnel functions. It also offers
   training briefings on new personnel programs and initiatives. Under the
   Human Resources Council is an associated Labor Relations Advisory
   Group.  Chair: Barbara Dove, U.S. Pacific Command, 477-1380,
   bsdove00@hq.pacom.mil

     Labor Relations Advisory Group (LRAG)

     Provides information about labor-management relations issues to the
     federal community which assists in the furtherance of competent
     labor-management. Chairman: Robert Griem, Human Resources Service
     Center, Pacific Region, 474-6040

   Government Organizations Together for Quality

   Supports and assists coordinators and agency heads in implementing and
   institutionalizing total quality. Principal functions include
   developing and executing training courses for agencies; networking to
   share resources such as knowledge and information; and developing and
   executing a TQM implementation road map. Chairman:  Herb Morikawa, U.S.
   Army Garrison, Hawaii, 656-4412, morikawah@schofield.army.mil;
   Treasurer:  Glenn Miyata, Fleet Technical Support Center, Pacific,
   473-0129, miyatag@ftscpac.navy.mil

   Hawaii Federal Safety and Health Council

   Provides a forum for federal safety and health professionals and
   assists member agencies in reducing the incidence, severity and cost of
   occupational injury and illness. Chair: April Slater, Commander Patrol
   and Reconnaissance Force, U.S. Pacific Fleet, 257-0509 x8451,
   slatera@cprfp.navy.mil

   Hawaii Intergovernmental Training Council

   Develops and maintains a network of Hawaii government training and
   education professionals to provide opportunities for human resources
   development, education, communications, and services for members.
   Chairman:  Michael Heh, Matsunaga VA Medical and Regional Office
   Center, 433-0193, michael.heh@med.va.gov; Vice Chair:  Janice Wong,
   U.S. Customs Service, 522-8080 x138, janice.wong@customs.treas.gov

   Hawaii-Pacific Area Combined Federal Campaign

   Represents the annual opportunity for federal employees to support many
   health and human care agencies assuring them of only one on-the-job
   fund-raising campaign each year. The Policy Committee is the Local
   Federal Coordinating Committee which provides administrative oversight.
   Fall 2002 Chairman:  Rear Admiral Ralph D. Utley, USCG, Fourteenth
   Coast Guard District, 541-2051

   Policy Committee

   Acts as the executive council of the Federal Executive Board to
   establish major goals, participate in policy decisions, and evaluates
   the effectiveness of the board. Chairman: Major General Edward L.
   Correa, Jr., HIARNG, Hawaii National Guard, 733-4246,
   edward_l_correa@exec.state.hi.us

   Prince Kuhio Federal Building Tenants' Committee

   Addresses areas of concern and common interest to agencies housed in
   the Prince Kuhio Federal Building. Chair:  Caren Kusaka, U.S.
   Attorney's Office, 541-2850 x223, caren.kusaka@usdoj.gov

            Annual Report/Calendar/COLA Settlement/Committees &
   Councils/Constitution/Directory of FEBs/Emergency Dismissal Plan/EEO
   Council/FEB Mission/FSCH/FWC/Hawaii-Pacific Area CFC/Home/Interesting
      Articles/Links/Meeting Minutes/Membership/News Bite/Officers &
                 Staff/Photographs/Training Opportunities
