http://www.ars.usda.gov/is/AR/archive/nov01/sharp1101.htm

                        Agricultural Research Service
           U.S. Department of Agriculture ARS News and Information


                                  Contents


             ...From the pages of Agricultural Research magazine


Scientists Sharpen Strategies To Sabotage Glassy-Winged Sharpshooter

     Glassy-winged sharpshooter on a grape leaf: Click here for caption.
      A half-inch-long insect called the glassy-winged sharpshooter has
       wreaked havoc in southern California wine vineyards, causing an
     estimated $14 million in damage during the past several years. The
   sharpshooter carries the Xylella fastidiosa bacterium, the cause of the
      incurable Pierce's disease of grapevines. Known to scientists as
   Homalodisca coagulata, the lively leafhopper is now set to attack other
             grape-growing regions in the Golden State as well.

    To rout this pest, scientists at ARS labs from coast to coast혰and in
   South America혰are making the sharpshooter and the Xylella microbe the
      focus of ambitious new studies. The researchers are investigating
    promising particle films, insecticides, and biological control agents
    that might sabotage the sharpshooter. They're delving into the basic
   biology of both the insect and the bacterium. And they're pursuing new
    ways to quickly and easily detect the microbe in sharpshooters and in
                              afflicted plants.

               Here's a look at some of those investigations.

            Grapes on a vine: Click here for full photo caption.
                  A Particle Spray Keeps Sharpshooters Away

    A coating of white kaolin particles, co-developed by ARS entomologist
     Gary J. Puterka, can make grapevines inhospitable to sharpshooters.

    "The specially shaped and sized particles stick to the sharpshooters'
     legs and wings when they land on treated foliage, making it a very
   uninviting place for dining on or laying eggs," explains Puterka. He is
   with the ARS Appalachian Fruit Research Station in Kearneysville, West
                                  Virginia.

       The product, sold by Engelhard Corporation under the trade name
     Surround WP Crop Protectant, has been very successful in protecting
                     pears and apples from insect pests.

    "Given a choice between treated and untreated foliage, glassy-winged
       sharpshooters are highly unlikely to settle on Surround-treated
   foliage," says Puterka, who tested it this year on table grapes growing
      in central California's Kern County. The vineyards he used border
              citrus groves, which can harbor the sharpshooter.

    Technician and field worker count glassy-winged sharpshooters: Click
                        here for full photo caption.
    Puterka and collaborators wanted to see if Surround would prevent the
    six-legged varmints from moving into the vineyards after wintering in
    citrus. After three treatments from mid-March through mid-April 2001,
    the scientists found that the number of sharpshooter trap catches and
        eggs was far lower in the Surround-treated areas than in the
                          pesticide-treated areas.

    Puterka got similar results from a larger pilot study in Kern County.
    It is the first project aimed at developing an economically feasible,
   areawide strategy to quell the pest. Specialists from California state
    and county agencies, along with 30 growers and numerous advisors, are
     part of the study, which is coordinated by USDA's Animal and Plant
                     Health Inspection Service (APHIS).

       "Participating growers use products that have minimal toxicity,
    whenever possible, in order to spare beneficial insects," says APHIS
     entomologist Matthew A. Ciomperlik. "Surround, which is completely
    nontoxic, clearly outperformed insecticides and is proving to be very
     economical and effective at preventing the insect's spread. Growers
       needed to use only three applications of Surround versus six of
    insecticides. So Surround might help them cut costs. Some growers who
    were reluctant to try Surround changed their minds when they saw how
                             effective it was."

     Donald A. Luvisi, a Kern County farm advisor with the University of
      California's Cooperative Extension Service, sees Surround as very
    promising for early-season use. But after the vines bloom, he notes,
   table grape growers would have to switch to insecticides. "The Surround
     treatment, if continued, would leave a white residue on the stems,"
     Luvisi explains. "The residue is harmless, but it probably would be
                         unacceptable to consumers."

    Entomologist beats an orange tree: Click here for full photo caption.
                          Insecticides Investigated

    To learn more about insecticides that can safely and effectively zap
        the sharpshooter, ARS researchers David H. Akey and Thomas J.
      Henneberry of the Western Cotton Research Laboratory in Phoenix,
    Arizona, have teamed up with entomology professor Nick C. Toscano of
     the University of California at Riverside to scrutinize some of the
                          most promising compounds.

   In one series of experiments, they took sharpshooters that were living
     on citrus trees and moved them to a southern California vineyard of
   Chardonnay grapes. On one vine in each plot, the scientists enclosed 25
     sharpshooters in an improvised cage made of soft netting. They then
    sprayed an insecticide in two applications, spaced 1 week apart. They
     repeated this procedure in their tests of about two dozen different
                                insecticides.

   The researchers inventoried the cages for dead sharpshooters at 6 hours
     and at 1, 2, and 6 days after spraying. Then, for the next 15 to 29
    days, they periodically restocked the cages with new sharpshooters to
   determine whether the aging residue of the chemicals had any effect on
                                the insects.

   "We were particularly concerned with how fast the insecticides knocked
    down the sharpshooter," says Henneberry. "That's especially important
   if an insecticide is used for stopgap protection when a new infestation
      is discovered. Not all scientists agree about exactly how fast a
   feeding sharpshooter can transmit the bacterium into a grapevine. But,
     in the ideal scenario, the insecticide would kill the sharpshooter
                before the bacterium could enter the plant."

     A parasitic wasp lays its eggs: Click here for full photo caption.
   In general, compounds known as pyrethroids and neonicotinoids were the
    best performers, according to the researchers. One pyrethroid killed
   all the caged sharpshooters within 6 hours. Based in part on the team's
   studies, the pyrethroid cyfluthrin is already approved for sharpshooter
      control. Pyrethroid and neonicotinoid residues were still killing
                        sharpshooters after 28 days.

                           Seeking Egg Parasitoids

    One of the trickiest aspects of using these or other insecticides is
    making sure that the chemicals don't clobber beneficial insects, such
    as natural enemies of the sharpshooter. Among the sharpshooter's most
       formidable foes, for example, are egg parasitoids혰insects that
    unabashedly lay their eggs inside sharpshooter eggs. Parasitoid young
     hatch inside the sharpshooter eggs, then proceed to feast on them.

        One egg parasitoid, a tiny, stingless wasp called Gonatocerus
   triguttatus, has already been released in California by researchers at
   the University of California at Riverside and APHIS. Now, ARS-sponsored
              studies may uncover other promising parasitoids.

   At the ARS South American Biological Control Laboratory in Hurlingham,
    Argentina, researchers are investigating the parasitoids that emerge
       from the eggs of a native South American sharpshooter, Tapajosa
                               rubrimarginata.

   "In field experiments so far, we've found that parasitoids emerged from
      66 to 71 percent of the eggs. That's a fairly impressive rate of
   parasitization for an experimental situation," says Guillermo Logarzo.
                  He is based at the Hurlingham laboratory.

   Serguei V. Triapitsyn, a wasp expert from the University of California
   at Riverside, is collaborating with the Hurlingham scientists. Some of
    the Argentine species of wasps that he has identified so far are very
     different from parasitoids that beleaguer the sharpshooter in North
                                  America.

   The ARS Beneficial Insects Research Unit in Weslaco, Texas, is helping
      fund the Hurlingham studies. Says Walker A. Jones, who leads the
      Weslaco research unit, "Parasitoids or other sharpshooter natural
      enemies from subclimates similar to the grape-growing regions of
       California might outperform natural enemies imported from other
    climates. Our survey of areas where sharpshooter species occur showed
   that subclimates in some areas of Argentina match those of California.
    In addition, Chile has some exact matches, so it's being included in
              explorations for new biological control agents."

    But researchers aren't ruling out potential biological control agents
     from other regions. For instance, the Weslaco scientists and their
   colleagues are hot on the trail of an egg parasite found in south Texas
    and in northeastern Mexico. Notes Jones, "We think this parasitoid is
   at least partly responsible for the lack of glassy-winged sharpshooters
      in that region." 혰By Marcia Wood, and Judy McBride, Agricultural
                     Research Service Information Staff.

       This research is part of Crop Protection and Quarantine, an ARS
         National Program (#304) described on the World Wide Web at
                        http://www.nps.ars.usda.gov.

       Gary J. Puterka is with the USDA-ARS Appalachian Fruit Research
       Station, 45 Wiltshire Rd., Kearneysville, WV 25430; phone (304)
                   725-3451, ext. 361, fax (304) 728-2340.

    David H. Akey and Thomas J. Henneberry are with the USDA-ARS Western
    Cotton Research Laboratory, 4135 E. Broadway Rd., Phoenix, AZ 85040;
                  phone (602) 437-0121, fax (602) 437-1274.

      Guillermo Logarzo is with the USDA-ARS South American Biological
   Control Laboratory, Bolivar 1559, 1686 Hurlingham, Argentina, phone/fax
                              53-11-4662-0999.

    Walker A. Jones is in the USDA-ARS Beneficial Insects Research Unit,
     Kika de la Garza Subtropical Agricultural Research Center, 2413 E.
       Highway 83, Weslaco, TX 78596; phone (956) 969-4852, fax (956)
                                  969-4888.

   "Scientists Sharpen Strategies To Sabotage Glassy-Winged Sharpshooter"
      was published in the November 2001 issue of Agricultural Research
                                  magazine.

                    Top | Editorial staff | Subscriptions

                                 Bottom menu

          Home | News | Pubs | Magazine | Photos| Sci4Kids | Search
              About ARS Info | Site map | Policies | E-mail us
