http://www.bxa.doc.gov/factsheets/TSRAsFAQs122101.html

   Link to Main Content for our visually impaired users

   Go to BXA Home Page What's New on the BXA Web Site Conduct a full text
                         Search of the BXA Web site

                                                        BXA Header Graphic

     You are here: BXA Home > Policy Fact Sheets > FAQs for TSRA and EEA

                          This page last updated on ...
                                  12/21/01


   Please Note... Some of the links on this page will take you off of the
   BXA Web site. You may wish to review the privacy notice of these linked
                                   sites.

                         Frequently Asked Questions
                     Regarding the Implementation of the
              Trade Sanctions Reform and Export Enhancement Act


     1. How does the Trade Sanctions Reform and Export Enhancement Act of
     2000 (TSRA) affect export license requirements to Cuba?
     2. Which items are included in the definition of agricultural
     commodities?
     3. Are there any agricultural items that are not eligible for this
     program?
     4. May I use License Exception AGR to export agricultural commodities
     to government end-users in Cuba?
     5. Are pesticides and herbicides eligible for License Exception AGR?
     6. Are genetically modified organisms (GMOs) eligible for License
     Exception AGR?
     7. May I use License Exception AGR to export technology, software and
     equipment used to manufacture or grow agricultural commodities in Cuba?
     8. May I use License Exception AGR to export agricultural equipment?
     9. Are cigarettes agricultural commodities?
     10. Are cardboard boxes agricultural commodities?
     11. May I use License Exception AGR to export donations of food,
     other agricultural commodities and samples of agricultural commodities?
     12. May I still use Exception GFT for gift parcels containing food to
     Cuba?
     13. May I use License Exception AGR to export food and medical items
     to Iran, Libya, or Sudan?
     14. Why are medicines and medical devices ineligible for this program
     for Cuba?
     15. May I travel to Cuba in connection with exports I make or plan to
     make under License Exception AGR?
     16. Does License Exception AGR authorize the export of a vessel,
     fuel, or ship stores with respect to vessels carrying authorized
     agricultural commodities to Cuba?
     17. Are vessels carrying agricultural commodities to Cuba subject to
     the Cuban Democracy Act's 180 day ban on entering U.S. ports?
     18. Is there a waiver of the contract requirement for emergency
     cases?
     19. What if the multi-purpose application form (BXA-748P) is
     incomplete when submitted?
     20. If I obtain authorization to use License Exception AGR to export
     a certain amount of an agricultural commodity under License Exception
     AGR and, subsequent to that authorization, my customer wants to
     increase the amount purchased to a level that exceeds the amount on my
     AGR authorization, may I ship that increased amount?
     21. May I substitute items if the total export remains the same in
     dollar value and quantity?
     22. Will BXA develop a list of approved entities to whom we may ship
     without further notification?
     23. If the purchaser (or end-user) changes after I've submitted the
     prior notification, do I need to submit a new notification, in essence
     starting the process all over again?
     24. Do I need to start the notification process all over again if I
     am shipping in quarterly installments over the one year period?
     25. What do I do if the purchaser in Cuba asks me to ship to a
     recipient or a location that is different from the recipients or
     locations I submitted in my prior notification?
     26. I have an item that I believe is both an agricultural commodity
     and EAR99. How do I use License Exception AGR?
     27. How do I file a notification?
     28. Where can I get forms?
     29. What is SNAP?
     30. How will I know if BXA has registered my notification or whether
     any reviewing agency has objected to my notification, and when I may
     ship?
     31. What is STELA?
     32. How do I complete the notification for License Exception AGR?
     33. Do I need a BXA commodity classification prior to submitting a
     License Exception AGR notification?
     34. Do I need a BXA commodity classification prior to submitting a
     license application to OFAC to export agricultural commodities,
     medicine, and medical devices to Iran, Libya, or Sudan?
     35. How do I complete the BXA 748P form for a commodity
     classification request?

    " " 1. How does the Trade Sanctions Reform and Export Enhancement Act
         of 2000 (TSRA) affect export license requirements to Cuba?

   BXA allows exports and certain reexports of "agricultural commodities"
                  to Cuba under the License Exception AGR.

      " " 2. Which items are included in the definition of agricultural
                                commodities?

    TSRA defines agricultural commodities by reference to Section 102 of
     the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. ยง5602). Agricultural
       commodities include, but are not limited to, food, feed, fish,
      shellfish and fish products; beer, wine and spirits; soft drinks;
   livestock; fiber, including cotton, wool and other fibers; tobacco and
   tobacco products; wood and wood products, including lumber and utility
      poles; seeds; and reproductive materials such as fertilized eggs,
   embryos and semen. In addition, vitamins, minerals, food additives and
    dietary supplements, and bottled water are also included. Organic and
     inorganic fertilizers are also included , unless BXA classifies the
   fertilizer under ECCN 1C997 (i.e., dry fertilizers containing more than
      15% ammonium nitrate - see question #3 below). The Department of
    Agriculture maintains a [pdf] list of agricultural commodities on its
    Web site that are eligible for License Exception AGR. There are three
      commodities on this list - - live horses, western red cedar, and
   fertilizers - - that require an official commodity classification from
    BXA to determine whether or not they are eligible for AGR. Note that
        bottled water, vitamins, minerals, food additives and dietary
       supplements are not the Department of Agriculture list, but are
    considered agricultural commodities by BXA and OFAC. BXA and OFAC use
             the same definitions for agricultural commodities.

   " " 3. Are there any agricultural items that are not eligible for this
                                  program?

   Yes. Any item that is on the Commerce Control List is not eligible. For
      example, live horses exported by sea (ECCN 0A980) and unprocessed
    western red cedar (ECCN 1C988) are not eligible. Neither is ammonium
      nitrate, including certain fertilizers and fertilizer blends. Dry
     fertilizers containing more than 15% by weight ammonium nitrate are
        classified as ECCN 1C997 and are not eligible. Dry fertilizer
       containing 15 % or less ammonium nitrate and liquid fertilizers
      regardless of the concentration of ammonium nitrate are eligible.
   Exporters who are not sure if their products are eligible should submit
                 a commodity classification request to BXA.

        " " 4. May I use License Exception AGR to export agricultural
                commodities to government end-users in Cuba?

     Yes. Cuban government entities may be recipients of U.S. exports of
       agricultural commodities, unless the Cuban government entity is
      involved in promoting international terrorism (e.g., listed as a
   Specially Designated Terrorists or Foreign Terrorist Organization), has
     been denied export privileges by the Department of Commerce and the
   transaction would violate the terms of the denial order, or is engaged
                    in weapons proliferation activities).

     " " 5. Are pesticides and herbicides eligible for License Exception
                                    AGR?

    No. The definition of agricultural commodities used in TSRA does not
    include pesticides, insecticides, or herbicides. Potential exporters,
    however, may apply to export such items to Cuba under BXA's standard
    licensing procedures. In general, our policy is to deny applications
     for licenses to export most items to Cuba; however, pesticides and
     herbicides might be approved on a case-by-case basis as exports to
   provide support for the Cuban people (see Section 746.2(b) of the EAR).
        Applications to export such items to well known international
    organizations for public health purposes are those least likely to be
                                   denied.

    " " 6. Are genetically modified organisms (GMOs) eligible for License
                               Exception AGR?

     Whether or not an item is genetically modified does not affect its
        eligibility for License Exception AGR. If an item is both an
     agricultural commodity and EAR99, it is eligible. Note that certain
    GMOs are classified on the CCL under ECCN 1C353 and are not eligible
     for License Exception AGR or OFAC's expedited review procedures. In
      addition, genetically modified materials that are not within the
     definition of agricultural commodity (see question 2 above) are not
    eligible. Technology for production of genetically modified organisms
                              is not eligible.

    " " 7. May I use License Exception AGR to export technology, software
    and equipment used to manufacture or grow agricultural commodities in
                                    Cuba?

   No. License Exception AGR applies only to exports and reexports of U.S.
    agricultural commodities to Cuba. The TSRA implementing rule does not
    affect U.S. export regulations on the export of technology, software
     and equipment used to grow or manufacture agricultural commodities.

        " " 8. May I use License Exception AGR to export agricultural
                                 equipment?

   No. Exports of agricultural equipment, hand tools or machinery, are not
     eligible for AGR. Applications to export agricultural equipment are
   subject to a general policy of denial. However, donations of hand tools
    and equipment suitable for small farms, such as rotor tillers, may be
   eligible for export under License Exception GFT (see Section 740.12(b)
            of the EAR) or under an export license issued by BXA.

               " " 9. Are cigarettes agricultural commodities?

    Yes. Tobacco and tobacco products, including cigarettes, are included
               in the definition of agricultural commodities.

            " " 10. Are cardboard boxes agricultural commodities?

    No. Cardboard boxes are not agricultural commodities, and therefore,
                 are not eligible for License Exception AGR.

    " " 11. May I use License Exception AGR to export donations of food,
   other agricultural commodities and samples of agricultural commodities?

     Yes, exporters may use License Exception AGR to export donations of
   food and non-food agricultural commodities and commercial samples. For
    donations and samples, there is no contract requirement. The exporter
    must ship the goods within12 months of the date of BXA's notification
   to the exporter that no reviewing agency objected to the use of License
     Exception AGR. Exporters, however, may want to also consider using
    License Exception Gift Parcels and Humanitarian Donations (GFT) - if
   they meet the eligibility criteria for this license exception. License
   Exception GFT authorizes exports and reexports of food in gift parcels
     by an individual to another individual or eligible group without a
    license. In addition, GFT authorizes exports or reexports by certain
   U.S. charitable organizations (see Section 740.12(b)(3) of the EAR for
     requirements the organization must meet) of donations to meet basic
   human needs when those groups or organizations have experience in such
   charitable activities. See Section 740.12 of the Export Administration
          Regulations for information about License Exception GFT.

   " " 12. May I still use Exception GFT for gift parcels containing food
                                  to Cuba?

    Yes, if an export meets all the criteria, an exporter may continue to
   use License Exception GFT to donate food and other eligible commodities
       (e.g., clothing, soap) to Cuba. Note that non-food agricultural
    commodities are not eligible for export in gift parcels (see Section
                                 740.12(a)).

     " " 13. May I use License Exception AGR to export food and medical
                       items to Iran, Libya, or Sudan?

       No. License Exception AGR applies only to eligible agricultural
   commodities to Cuba. Exporters must have authorization from OFAC prior
    to exporting U.S. agricultural or medical commodities to Iran, Libya,
      or Sudan or reexporting such commodities by U.S. persons to Iran,
                              Libya, or Sudan.

      " " 14. Why are medicines and medical devices ineligible for this
                              program for Cuba?

    The Trade Sanctions Reform and Export Enhancement Act did not clearly
    repeal or supersede the relevant Cuban Democracy Act (CDA) provisions
     on medical items so the latter's requirements still apply. The CDA
   requires a specific license for exports of medicines and medical items.
     In addition, there are certain criteria, such as on-site monitoring
                     requirements, that have to be met.

   " " 15. May I travel to Cuba in connection with exports I make or plan
                    to make under License Exception AGR?

   License Exception AGR authorizes exports and reexports of agricultural
        commodities only. It does not affect or replace existing OFAC
     regulations relating to travel to Cuba. Anyone wishing to travel to
               Cuba must still comply with those regulations.

    " " 16. Does License Exception AGR authorize the export of a vessel,
      fuel, or ship stores with respect to vessels carrying authorized
                      agricultural commodities to Cuba?

    No. OFAC and BXA licensing requirements for vessels bound for Cuba or
   for items on those vessels remain in place. BXA requires a license for
    the export of a vessel and for ship stores to Cuba even if the vessel
    is carrying only authorized commodities to Cuba. There is no License
     Exception available for exports of vessels or ship stores to Cuba.
   Exporters will need a specific license to export a vessel to Cuba even
    if it is a "temporary sojourn" and the ship will not remain in Cuba.
       BXA's average processing time for applications for such license
   applications is about 35 days. Persons interested in shipping eligible
     commodities to Cuba should submit their license applications early.

    " " 17. Are vessels carrying agricultural commodities to Cuba subject
      to the Cuban Democracy Act's 180 day ban on entering U.S. ports?

       OFAC regulations governing such activities are unchanged. Those
        regulations provide a waiver for vessels that are delivering
     commodities authorized by the U.S. Government or items exempt from
     regulation (See 31 C.F.R. Part 515.550). Interested parties should
            contact OFAC for further information on this subject.

     " " 18. Is there a waiver of the contract requirement for emergency
                                   cases?

   No. Exporters must have a written contact before shipping under License
   Exception AGR unless the shipment is a donation or a commercial sample.

      " " 19. What if the multi-purpose application form (BXA-748P) is
                         incomplete when submitted?

    We will not register the notification in BXA's electronic data system
     until all the required information on the 748P form is complete. We
     will work with exporters, but if the applicant fails to provide the
     required information, we will return the notification. BXA and the
     other government agencies will not review incomplete applications.

      " " 20. If I obtain authorization to use License Exception AGR to
     export a certain amount of an agricultural commodity under License
   Exception AGR and, subsequent to that authorization, my customer wants
   to increase the amount purchased to a level that exceeds the amount on
           my AGR authorization, may I ship that increased amount?

    No. The exporter would have to submit a new notification and obtain a
    new AGR authorization before shipping the additional amount. There is
   no penalty for exporting less than authorized, but an exporter may not
                        exceed the authorized levels.

   " " 21. May I substitute items if the total export remains the same in
                         dollar value and quantity?

   No. An exporters may not substitute items that were not included in the
     original notification and for which BXA confirmed that no reviewing
     agency objected to the use of License Exception AGR. Exporters can
      increase their flexibility by providing, on their notifications,
      general descriptions of the agricultural commodities they wish to
    export. For example, one might list "grains (e.g., rice, corn, wheat,
        or barley)" or "various vegetables (e.g., peas, green beans,
                                 tomatoes)".

     " " 22. Will BXA develop a list of approved entities to whom we may
                     ship without further notification?

        No. BXA has no plans to create such a list. BXA maintains the
     notification requirement to allow review of the commodities and the
   end-user, and to collect the information that the Act requires that BXA
                             report to Congress.

   " " 23. If the purchaser (or end-user) changes after I've submitted the
   prior notification, do I need to submit a new notification, in essence
                    starting the process all over again?

   Yes. These exports are transaction specific and any change will require
                             a new notification.

   " " 24. Do I need to start the notification process all over again if I
       am shipping in quarterly installments over the one year period?

       Not necessarily. Exporters may continue to ship the authorized
   agricultural commodities to the authorized end-user until they exhaust
      the authorized amount or 12 months have elapsed since the written
      contract was signed. The regulations do not impose a limit on the
         number shipments that may be made within these parameters.

     " " 25. What do I do if the purchaser in Cuba asks me to ship to a
      recipient or a location that is different from the recipients or
               locations I submitted in my prior notification?

     Exporters may not ship to any recipients other than those listed in
      their AGR notification. Before shipping to another recipient, the
    exporter must submit a new notification and obtain a new confirmation
       from BXA that no reviewing agency objects to the use of License
   Exception AGR. However, exporters may ship to the approved recipient at
     any of the recipient organization's locations in Cuba, not just the
    location listed in the notification. License Exception AGR may not be
     used under any circumstances to ship to destinations outside Cuba.

   " " 26. I have an item that I believe is both an agricultural commodity
               and EAR99. How do I use License Exception AGR?

                  Begin by filing a notification with BXA.

                    " " 27. How do I file a notification?

          You may either use the BXA multipurpose form 748P or file
    electronically through BXA's Simplified Network Application Procedure
                                   (SNAP).

                       " " 28. Where can I get forms?

    You may request forms on line or by contacting the Office of Exporter
     Services at 202-482-4811. In addition, the Department of Commerce's
   Commercial Service district offices often have forms. Check your local
        listing for the locations of Department of Commerce offices.

                            " " 29. What is SNAP?

    SNAP is the acronym for BXA's Simplified Network Application Process.
   This allows exporters to electronically submit export/reexport license
   applications, notifications, and commodity classification requests. See
                     the online information about SNAP.

      " " 30. How will I know if BXA has registered my notification or
   whether any reviewing agency has objected to my notification, and when
                                 I may ship?

        Exporters may call BXA's "System for Tracking Export License
   Applications" (STELA) at 202-482-2752 and enter the Application Control
    Number (it begins with "Z" followed by six digits) for the status of
     their notifications. You must wait until either STELA reports that
    there has been no objection or until you receive written confirmation
                   that no reviewing agency has objected.

                           " " 31. What is STELA?

     STELA is the acronym for BXA's automated System for Tracking Export
   License Applications. It is an automated voice response system that can
                    be accessed using a touch-tone phone.

    " " 32. How do I complete the notification for License Exception AGR?

         To submit a notification, complete the multipurpose export
   authorization form (BXA-748P). This is the same form that exporters use
    to submit license applications and commodity classification requests.
    For submitting notifications, you only need to complete certain parts
                      of the form, as indicated below:

                                   BLOCKS:

     1. Contact person - someone who can provide information about the
     application.
     2. Telephone number
     3. Fax number
     4. Date of application
     5. Type of application - check OTHER
     6. Documents submitted - check LETTER OF EXPLANATION (optional)
     7. through 13. - Not applicable (do not fill out)
     15. Other party - (optional)
     16. Purchaser - enter the name and address of the Cuban or other
     purchaser, if applicable (leave blank if the transaction involves a
     donation or sample)
     17. Intermediate consignee - enter the name and address of the Cuban
     or other intermediate consignee, if applicable (this could be
     someone who will receive the goods in Cuba and deliver them to the
     ultimate consignee)
     18. Ultimate consignee - enter the name and address of the person or
     organization in Cuba who will receive and use the goods

     19. End-user - enter the name and address of the end-user(s), if
     applicable (complete this block if the ultimate consignee will not
     be the final end-user, for example, in a situation where the
     ultimate consignee acts as a distributor)

     20. Original ultimate consignee - enter the name and address of the
     foreign entity (this block is to be used only for reexport
     transactions)

     21. Specific end-use - enter a brief statement describing the
     end-use (e.g., wheat to make flour; food for a hotel restaurant)

     22. (a) - ECCN - enter EAR99 (you must be certain of this; any other
     classification is not eligible for the provisions of License
     Exception AGR )

     (b) - N/A

     (c) - Model number, if applicable

     (d) - enter the commodity classification number (CCATS) if
     previously classified by BXA

     (e) - Quantity - how many units?

     (f) - Units - enter applicable measure of quantity (lbs., tons,
     boxes, containers, etc.)

     (g) - Unit price - enter fair market value, for sales and donations

     (h) - Total price - multiply (e) times (f)

     (i) - Manufacturer - if applicable

     (j) - Technical description - enter a detailed description for all
     commodities intended for export/reexport; use a letter of
     explanation if necessary

     23. Total value - enter value of all items on application

     24. Additional information - enter here or in a cover letter any
     additional information that will help us understand the application

     25. Signature/printed name/title

   " " 33. Do I need a BXA commodity classification prior to submitting a
                     License Exception AGR notification?

    Exporters may need a commodity classification for exports of certain
     agricultural commodities to Cuba. BXA requires that a BXA commodity
      classification determination be submitted with notifications for
   fertilizers, western red cedar, and live horses. The U.S. Department of
        Agriculture website includes a list of eligible agricultural
   commodities, most of which are eligible for License Exception AGR. BXA
   has determined that all items on that list except for western red cedar
       and live horses are EAR99 and do not require a prior commodity
   classification. Fertilizers, although not on that list, are considered
    agricultural commodities for purposes of License Exception AGR but do
   require a prior classification. The twelve day notification period does
        not provide sufficient time to make commodity classification
       determinations as part of the notification process; therefore,
   exporters must request a commodity classification prior to submitting a
               notification for items that may be on the CCL.

   " " 34. Do I need a BXA commodity classification prior to submitting a
       license application to OFAC to export agricultural commodities,
           medicine, and medical devices to Iran, Libya, or Sudan?

         The answer depends on the items that you propose to export:

   Agricultural Commodities:You do NOT need a BXA commodity classification
    prior to applying for a license to export agricultural commodities on
    the Department of Agriculture's eligible commodities list [pdf] with
    the exception of western red cedar and live horses. BXA has reviewed
   the items on that list and classified them as EAR99, with the exception
        of western red cedar and live horses. You do need a commodity
      classification for fertilizers (which are considered agricultural
    commodities for purposes of License Exception AGR even though not on
     the eligible commodities list), western red cedar, and live horses.
   Note that bottled water, vitamins, minerals, food additives and dietary
    supplements also are not the Department of Agriculture list, but are
       considered agricultural commodities for the purposes of License
                               Exception AGR.

   Medicine: Exporters are not required to have commodity classifications
    for exports of medicines prior to submitting an application to OFAC.
    However, medicines on the Commerce Control List are not eligible for
    OFAC's expedited procedure. Anyone uncertain about the classification
    of the medicine must submit a commodity classification request to BXA
                  before submitting an application to OFAC.

    Medical Devices (e.g., supplies, instruments and equipment): You must
   have an official commodity classification for medical devices that are
      NOT included in the BXA's list of EAR99 medical supplies prior to
                     submitting an application to OFAC.

         " " 35. How do I complete the BXA 748P form for a commodity
                           classification request?

    To request a commodity classification in advance of submitting a TSRA
      notification to BXA for a proposed export to Cuba or submitting a
    license application to OFAC for a proposed export to Iran, Libya, or
    Sudan, fill out the multipurpose export authorization form (BXA-748P)
                             as indicated below.

                                   BLOCKS:

     1. Contact person- someone who can provide information about the
     application

     2. Telephone number

     3. Fax number

     4. Date of application

     5. Type of application - check CLASSIFICATION REQUEST

     6. Documents submitted - checkTECH SPECS & LETTER OF EXPLANATION
     (optional)

     7. and 8. - Not applicable (do not fill out)

     9. Special purpose - Enter "TSRA"

     10. through 13. - N/A

     14. Applicant - enter the name and address of the requesting firm or
     individual

     15. Other party - (optional)

     16. Purchaser - N/A

     17. Intermediate consignee - N/A

     18. Ultimate consignee - enter the name and address, if you know it

     19. End-user - enter the name and address of the end-user(s), if you
     know them

     20. Original ultimate consignee - N/A

     21. Specific end-use - enter a brief statement describing the
     end-use, if you know it

     22.

     (a) - ECCN - enter your recommended classification number

     (b) - N/A

     (c) - Model number - if applicable

     (d) - enter the commodity classification number (CCATS) if
     previously classified by BXA

     (e) - Quantity - N/A

     (f) - Units - N/A

     (g) - Unit price - N/A

     (h) - Total price - N/A

     (i) - Manufacturer - if applicable

     (j) - Technical description - enter a detailed description of all
     commodities to be classified; use a cover letter/letter of
     explanation if necessary

     23. Total value - N/A

     24. Additional information - for a classification request, use this
     space to explain why you believe the ECCN entered in block 22(a) is
     appropriate. This explanation must contain an analysis of the item
     in terms of the technical control parameters specified in the
     appropriate ECCN. If you have not identified a recommended
     classification in block 22 (a), please state the reason why you
     cannot determine the appropriate classification.

     25. Signature/Printed name/Title
