http://epims.gsfc.nasa.gov/tva/

                    Technology Validation Assurance (TVA)


  Home
  Current Projects
  Past Topics in...
  TVA Library
  Validation Methods
  TVA Group Members
  Links
  Site Index

                    Welcome to the NEW Technology Validation Assurance Web Site!

                    Recent Papers/Updates:

   bullet Characterization of the Twelve Channel 100/140 Micron Optical
          Fiber, Ribbon Cable and
          MTP Array Connector Assembly for Space Flight Environments, NEPP Web
          Publication, October 4, 2001
          Authors: Melanie Ott, Shawn Macmurphy, Patricia Friedberg
   bullet Fiber Optic Epoxy Outgassing Study for Space Flight
          Applications, NEPP Web Publication, October 4, 2001
          Authors: Matthew Bettencourt, Melanie Ott
   bullet Evaluation of Vertical Cavity Surface Emitting Lasers (VCSEL)
          mounted on CVD Diamond Substrates
          Authors:  Harry Shaw, Melanie Ott
   bullet

          Tailoring Cores of Optical Fibers by a Sol-Gel Method
          Authors:  Harry Shaw, Michele Manuel, Melanie Ott
   bullet

          Site Index added.
   bullet

          Current Projects section has been updated and includes NEPP
          deliverables.
   bullet

          Technology Validation of Optical Fiber Cables for Space Flight
          Environments, SPIE Proceedings Vol. 4216, Optical Devices for Fiber
          Communication II, Conference November 8, 2000, Boston MA, to be
          published.
          Authors: Melanie Ott, Patricia Friedberg
          Companion Viewgraph Presentation  <--Now Available!
   bullet

          TID Radiation Induced Attenuation Testing at 1300 nm Using ISS
          Requirements on Three Optical Fibers Manufactured by Lucent SFT,
          September 2000
          Author: Melanie Ott
   bullet

          Evaluation of ESD Effects During Removal of Conformal Coatings Using
          Micro Abrasive Blasting (September 2000)
          Authors: Harry Shaw, Nitin Parekh, Carroll Clatterbuck, Felix Frades
   bullet

          ISS Fiber Optic Failure Investigation Root Cause Report has been
          finished and released to the public! (August 2000)

   Overview:

   The purpose of Technology Validation Assurance (TVA) is to provide a
   short cycle, low cost approach to building in quality through design
   optimization, and quality and reliability analysis for critical
   electronic hardware. Concurrent engineering, theoretical analysis and
   empirical data are used to produce information about a technology’s
   mechanical, thermal and electrical limitations and its most likely
   failure mechanisms.

   Curator:  Carl M. Szabo
   NASA Official:  Darryl D. Lakins
   NASA/GSFC Security and Privacy Statement
   This Page Last Modified:  11/30/2001

   [nasalogo.GIF]     [gsfc.gif]    [562_logo.jpg]
