http://nls3.nlm.nih.gov/MetaMap/variants.96.pdf

   The Effect of Textual Variation on Concept Based Information Retrieval
   Alan R. Aronson National Library of Medicine Bethesda, MD 20894
   Accounting for textual variation in the documents and case, stemming,
   and even the use of stop words some- queries processed by information
   retrieval systems is times degrades performance in IR and related
   systems considered essential for achieving good retrieval. [3,4].
   MetaMap normalization can be thought of as Recent research has called
   into question several of the generalized stemming. It is related to
   several studies techniques used to support this endeavor. This paper
   which also map biomedical text to the Metathesaurus reports on
   experiments with a concept based informa- for various purposes [5-10].
   The major distinguishing tion retrieval system which relies on a
   program called features of MetaMap are its use of high-level parsing,
   MetaMap to account for textual variation in the pro- its use of
   knowledge based, linguistically motivated cess of mapping biomedical
   text such as MEDLINE® variant generation, and its principled evaluation
   func- bibliographic citations to the UMLS® Meta- tion for ranking
   results. It is MetaMap's variant gener- thesaurus®. The experiments
   confirm that the effort ation process which is directly affected by
   textual expended in handling textual variation is well-spent variation
   and which is the focus of this paper. for at least one type of concept
   based information retrieval. MetaMap uses three kinds of variation in
   the process of mapping to the Metathesaurus: acronyms and
   abbreviations, synonyms, and derivational variants. INTRODUCTION
   Spelling and inflectional variants are not considered here since the
   MetaMap variant generation algorithm Word based information retrieval
   (IR) systems have uses a quasi-canonicalization approach which col-
   long dealt with the problem of textual variation by lapses all spelling
   and inflectional variants into a sin- using a range of methods from
   ignoring the case of gle variant. Thus spelling and inflectional
   variation text to performing stemming in order to treat minor are
   intrinsic to MetaMap and not susceptible to exam- textual variants of
   the same word as a single form. ination. Thus Hospital becomes
   hospital; medicine, medicines and medical become medic; and,
   unfortunately, bat- Experiments were performed by completely or par-
   tery may become bat. IR systems in which the focus tially eliminating
   one of the three kinds of variation is on concepts rather than words
   have an identical from the MetaMap variant generation process and need
   to account for such textual variation. The computing the effect on IR
   performance. The study approach to concept based IR taken here is to
   normal- was done using the 1995 release of the Metathesaurus ize both
   document text and queries, replacing text on the NLM Test Collection
   [11] which consists of words with concepts discovered by a program
   called some 150 actual user queries, 3,000 MEDLINE cita- MetaMap which
   maps biomedical text such as MED- tions, and relevancy judgements for
   each query. LINE citations to the concepts in the UMLS Meta- The
   current study has implications for previous work thesaurus, a knowledge
   base of biomedical concepts using MetaMap as a fundamental component:
   developed at NLM [1]. Actual retrieval is accom- research in semantic
   processing in general [12,13], plished by processing the normalized
   text using a tra- ambiguity resolution in particular [14]; and, most
   ditional statistical IR system, SMART [2]. The directly, previous
   experimentation using all forms of distinct separation of MetaMap
   normalization from MetaMap variation which produced a modest 4%
   retrieval in this approach facilitates experimentation increase in
   average precision [15]. by using the existing evaluation capabilities
   of SMART while allowing independent exploration of the normalization
   process. METHODOLOGY Recent research has shown that universal
   application The process of determining the effect of textual varia- of
   traditionally accepted techniques such as ignoring tion on IR
   performance consists of mapping the entire NLM Test Collection to the
   Metathesaurus for several simple noun phrases in text, and the tagger
   variant generation strategies, normalizing the text of improves
   accuracy even more. the collection based on the mapping results, and
   then 2. For each phrase, variants are generated where a evaluating the
   resulting normalized collections using variant essentially consists of
   one or more phrase SMART. words together with all of its acronyms,
   abbrevia- tions, synonyms, derivational variants and mean- MetaMap
   Processing ingful combinations of these; 3. The candidate set of all
   Metathesaurus strings con- The task of mapping from biomedical text to
   concepts taining at least one of the variants is retrieved; in the
   Metathesaurus consists of the following five 4. Each Metathesaurus
   candidate is evaluated by first steps (see Figure 1): computing a
   mapping from the phrase words to the candidate's words and then
   calculating the strength of the mapping using a linguistically prin-
   cipled evaluation function consisting of a Arbitrary Text weighted
   average of four metrics: centrality, varia- tion, coverage and
   cohesiveness. The candidates are ordered according to mapping strength;
   and 5. Complete mappings are constructed by combining Parsing
   candidates involved in disjoint parts of the phrase, and the strength
   of the complete mappings is com- puted just as for candidate mappings.
   The highest scoring complete mappings represent MetaMap's best
   interpretation of the original phrase. Variant Generation An example of
   the mapping process is given in the next section. Details of MetaMap's
   algorithms can be found at http://nls3.nlm.nih.gov. Candidate Retrieval
   MetaMap Variant Generation Because of its importance in determining how
   textual variation affects MetaMap processing, MetaMap's variant
   generation algorithm is described in more Candidate Evaluation detail.
   The approach taken in computing variants is a quasi-canonicalization
   approach. This simply means that a variant represents not only itself
   but all of its inflectional and spelling variants. Collapsing inflec-
   tional and spelling variants results in significant com- Mapping
   Construction putational savings. Actual variant generation begins by
   computing the set of generators for a phrase. A variant generator is
   any meaningful subsequence of words in the phrase where a subsequence
   is meaning- Concept Mapping ful if it is either a single word or occurs
   in the SPE- CIALIST lexicon [18]. For example, the variant generators
   for the noun phrase of liquid crystal ther- Figure 1. MetaMap
   processing mography are liquid crystal thermography, liquid crystal,
   liquid, crystal and thermography (preposi- 1. Arbitrary text is parsed
   into simple noun phrases; this limits the scope of further processing
   and tions, determiners, conjunctions, auxiliaries, modals, thereby
   makes the mapping effort more tractable. pronouns and punctuation are
   ignored). Note the Parsing is accomplished using the SPECIALISTTM
   multi-word generators. Variants are computed for minimal commitment
   parser [16] which produces each of the variant generators according to
   the scheme a high-level syntactic analysis rather than a full pictured
   in Figure 2. The computation for each gener- syntactic analysis. The
   parser optionally uses the ator proceeds as follows: Xerox
   Part-of-speech tagger [17] which assigns 1. Compute all acronyms,
   abbreviations and syn- syntactic labels (e.g., noun, verb) to all
   textual onyms of the generator. This results in the three items. The
   parser is very good at determining the sets Generator,
   Acronyms/Abbreviations, and ocular [0 = ""] Derivational oculus [3 =
   "d"] Generator Variants + eyepiece [2 = "s"] Synonyms eye [2 = "s"]
   optic [4 = "ss"] optical [7 = "ssd"] Derivational vision [9 = "ssds"]
   Variants Acronyms/ + optically [10 = "ssdd"] Abbreviations Synonyms
   ophthalmic [4 = "ss"] ophthalmia [7 = "ssd"] Synonyms ophthalmiac [7 =
   "ssd"] complications [0 = ""] Derivational complicate [3 = "d"]
   Variants + Synonyms Synonyms Figure 3. Variants of Ocular complications
   empty history because they are the generators, them- Acronyms/ selves.
   Similarly, vision has distance score 9 and his- Abbreviations tory
   "ssds" meaning that it is a synonym of a derivational variant (optical)
   of a synonym (optic) of a Figure 2. Variant generation synonym (eye) of
   ocular. The Metathesaurus candi- dates for Ocular complications are
   shown in Figure 4. Synonyms which are highlighted with boxes in Figure
   2; 861 Complications (Complication, NOS) 2. Augment the elements of the
   three sets by comput- ing their derivational variants and the synonyms
   of 861 complications <1> the derivational variants; 3. For each member
   of the Acronyms/Abbreviations 777 Complicated set, compute synonyms;
   and 638 Eye 4. For each member of the Synonyms set, compute
   acronyms/abbreviations. 611 Optic (Optics) Derivational variants and
   synonyms are recursively 588 Ophthalmia (Endophthalmitis) generated
   since this generally produces meaningful 579 Vision variants. However,
   acronyms and abbreviations are not recursively generated since doing so
   almost Figure 4. Metathesaurus candidates for Ocular always produces
   incorrect results. For example, the complications abbreviation na of
   sodium is also an acronym of both nurse's aide and nuclear antigen
   which are unrelated The candidates are shown in order of mapping to
   sodium. strength which has been normalized to a score between 0 and
   1,000 and is displayed before the can- Consider the utterance Ocular
   complications of Myas- didate. If the candidate is not the preferred
   name of thenia Gravis, a query from the NLM Test Collection. the
   concept it represents, the preferred name is dis- The parser detects
   two noun phrases, Ocular compli- played in parentheses. The best
   complete mappings cations and of Myasthenia Gravis. A simplified syn-
   for the phrase consist of the Metathesaurus concept tactic analysis for
   Ocular complications is `Eye' and either the concept `Complication,
   NOS' or [mod(ocular), head(complications)]. Vari- the concept
   `complications <1>'. ants for the phrase are shown in Figure 3. The
   variants are arranged hierarchically according to their deriva-
   Normalization tion history. Each variant is followed by its distance To
   make use of MetaMap's results, the Test Collec- score from its
   generator and its history. For example, tion is normalized by replacing
   text with matching ocular and complications have distance score 0 and
   Metathesaurus concepts subject to the following con- straint. In order
   for a concept to replace text, it must uments, and the 3-point average
   precision (i.e., aver- have the correct UMLS semantic type. Correctness
   is aging the precision values corresponding to recall of determined by
   a version of the Xerox tagger designed 0.2, 0.5 and 0.8) was used to
   compare results (see to handle semantic tags (semantic types) in
   addition to [19,20]). syntactic tags. Use of a semantic tagger in this
   way allows for choosing between competing concepts with different
   semantic types and also for disqualifying RESULTS concepts with
   inappropriate semantic types. The results of the experiments are shown
   in Table 1. An example will illustrate this notion of disambigu- ated
   concept normalization. The original text of a Test Improvement
   Collection query is shown below followed by its nor- Average over
   malization. Corresponding words and concepts are Precision Unprocessed
   underlined. All Variants 0.5968 5.0% * Original text: Adaptation of
   physical environment in No A/A 0.5907 3.9% hospitals to care for
   Alzheimer patients (model Unique A/A 0.5887 3.5% Alzheimer units). No
   Synonyms 0.5887 3.5% * Normalized text: Adaptation of Physical Environ-
   No Derivations 0.5822 2.4% ment in Hospitals to Caring for Alzheimer
   Patients (model Alzheimer units). Table 1. Average precision and
   improvement over Note that no normalization occurs for Alzheimer since
   unprocessed Alzheimer only appears in the Metathesaurus as a sub- part
   of concepts, e.g., `Alzheimer's Disease'. Also, They are expressed both
   as raw average precision val- even though units maps to the concept
   `Genes' ues and as percentage improvement over the average (because of
   an infelicitous synonymy relationship precision obtained without
   processing the text at all between unit and gene which is only valid in
   a molec- (0.5686). The best results are obtained when all varia- ular
   biology context), normalization does not occur tion is allowed. since
   the semantic tagger chooses a tag for units dif- ferent from that of
   `Genes'. CONCLUSION IR Experiments The experiments described above show
   that all forms Five versions of MetaMap output differing in the type of
   variation used by MetaMap enhance retrieval per- of allowable variation
   were used in the IR experi- formance albeit in varying degrees. The
   contribution ments: to retrieval performance of each type of variation
   can * All Variants-the baseline version in which all be seen by
   comparing its average precision to that of types of MetaMap variation
   are allowed; the All Variants case: the greater the difference, the *
   No A/A-no acronym or abbreviation variants are greater the
   contribution. Thus derivational variation used; contributes the most,
   followed by synonymy and then * Unique A/A-only acronyms and
   abbreviations acronyms and abbreviations. Restricting acronyms with
   unique expansions are used. Thus, the acro- and abbreviations to unique
   ones is slightly better nym ICU (Intensive Care Unit) is used, but the
   than allowing them all. abbreviation na (sodium, nurse's aide, nuclear
   The most interesting result is the one favoring unique antigen, ...) is
   not; acronyms and abbreviations over arbitrary ones. This * No
   Synonyms-no synonymy variants are used; confirms an intuition that
   while all forms of variation and are good in general, it is
   nevertheless useful to try to * No Derivations-no derivational
   morphology vari- discover practical ways of limiting variation to ants
   are used. increase accuracy. Further experiments such as Each version
   of MetaMap output was used to normal- exploring the recursive depth
   allowed during variant ize the Test Collection. The resulting versions
   of the generation or applying semantic restrictions to the test
   collection were processed straightforwardly using process may lead to a
   better understanding of textual SMART. The SMART weighting scheme atc
   (a vari- variation in order to enhance information retrieval ant of the
   standard term frequency-inverse document performance. frequency scheme)
   was used for both queries and doc- Acknowledgments 10. Miller RA,
   Gieszczykiewicz FM, Vries JK and I want to thank Tom Rindflesch and Zoë
   Stavri for Cooper GF. "CHARTLINE: Providing bibliographic many helpful
   discussions during the writing of this references relevant to patient
   charts using the UMLS paper. Metathesaurus knowledge sources." In
   Frisse ME (ed.) Proceedings of the 16th Annual SCAMC, 86-90, 1992.
   References 11. Schuyler PL, McCray AT and Schoolman HM. "A test
   collection for experimentation in bibliographic 1. Lindberg DAB,
   Humphreys BL and McCray AT. retrieval." Barber B, Cao D, Qin D and
   Wagner G "The Unified Medical Language System." Methods of (eds.)
   MEDINFO 89, Amsterdam: North-Holland, Information in Medicine
   32:281-291, 1993. 810-912, 1989. 2. Salton G (ed). The SMART retrieval
   system: Exper- 12. Rindflesch TC and Aronson AR. "Semantic pro- iments
   in automatic document processing. Englewood cessing in information
   retrieval." In Safran C (ed.) Cliffs, NH: Prentice-Hall, Inc, 1971.
   Proceedings of the 17th Annual SCAMC, 611-615, 3. Church KW. "One Term
   or Two?" In Fox E, Ingw- 1993. ersen P, and Fidel R (eds) Proceedings
   of the 18th 13. Sneiderman C, Rindflesch TC and Aronson AR. Annual
   International ACM SIGIR Conference on "Extracting Physical Findings
   from Free-Text Patient Research and Development in Information
   Retrieval, Records." 1995 AMIA (American Medical Informatics 310-318,
   1995. Association) Spring Congress, Cambridge, Massachu- 4. Riloff E.
   "Little Words Can Make a Big Difference setts, June 25-28, 1995. for
   Text Classification." In Fox E, Ingwersen P, and 14. Rindflesch TC and
   Aronson AR. "Ambiguity Res- Fidel R (eds) Proceedings of the 18th
   Annual Interna- olution while Mapping Free Text to the UMLS Meta-
   tional ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and thesaurus." In Ozbolt JG
   (ed.) Proceedings of the 18th Development in Information Retrieval,
   130-136, Annual SCAMC, 240-244, 1994. 1995. 15. Aronson AR, Rindflesch
   TC and Browne AC. 5. Canfield K, Bray B, Huff S and Warner H. "Data-
   "Exploiting a Large Thesaurus for Information base capture of natural
   language echocardiographic Retrieval." In RIAO (Computer aided
   information reports: a Unified Medical Language approach." In
   retrieval) 94 Conference Proceedings, 197-216, 1994. Kingsland LC, III
   (ed.) Proceedings of the 13th Annual SCAMC, 559-563, 1989. 16. McCray
   AT, Aronson AR, Browne AC, Rindfle- sch TC, Razi A and Srinivasan S.
   "UMLS knowledge 6. Chute CG, Yang Y, Tuttle MS, Sherertz DD, Olson for
   biomedical language processing." Bulletin of the NE and Erlbaum MS. "A
   preliminary evaluation of Medical Library Association 81:184-194, 1993.
   the UMLS Metathesaurus for patient record classifi- cation." In Miller
   RA (ed.) Proceedings of the 14th 17. Cutting D, Kupiec J, Pedersen J
   and Sibun P. "A Annual SCAMC,161-165, 1990. practical part-of-speech
   tagger." In Proceedings of the Third Conference on Applied Natural
   Language Pro- 7. Hersh WR, Hickam DD and Leone TJ. "Words, cessing,
   1992. concepts, or both: Optimal indexing units for auto- mated
   information retrieval." Frisse ME (ed.) Pro- 18. McCray AT, Srinivasan
   S and Browne AC. "Lexi- ceedings of the 16th Annual SCAMC, 644-648,
   1992. cal methods for managing variation in biomedical ter-
   minologies." In Ozbolt JG (ed.) Proceedings of the 8. Lin R, Lenert L,
   Middleton B and Shiffman S. "A 18th Annual SCAMC, 235-239, 1994.
   free-text processing system to capture physical find- ings: Canonical
   phrase identification system 19. Tague JM. "The pragmatics of
   information (CAPIS)." In Clayton PD (ed) Proceedings of the 15th
   retrieval experimentation." In Jones KS (ed.) Informa- Annual SCAMC,
   168-172, 1991. tion Retrieval Experiment, 59-102, 1981. 9. Wagner MM.
   "An automatic indexing method for 20. Salton G. "The Smart environment
   for retrieval medical documents." In Clayton PD (ed.) Proceedings
   system evaluation-advantages and problem areas." of the 15th Annual
   SCAMC, 1011-1017, 1992. In Jones KS (ed.) Information Retrieval
   Experiment, 316-329, 1981.
