http://nccam.nih.gov/fi/concepts/rfa/at-02-003.htm

   Botanical/Drug Interactions in HIV


   Release Date:                  December 6, 2001

   RFA: AT-02-003

   National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine
   Letter of Intent Receipt Date: February 28, 2002
   Application Receipt Date:      March 28, 2002

        This RFA uses "Modular Grant" and "Just-in-Time" concepts. Modular
    instructions must be used for research grant applications requesting
    less than $250,000 per year in all years. Modular budget instructions
    are provided in Section C of the PHS 398 (revision 5/2001), available
         at http://grants.nih.gov/grants/funding/phs398/phs398.html.

                                   Purpose

   The National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine (NCCAM)
        announces the availability of funds to support research into
    interactions between botanical substances and prescription drugs used
    in the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection and
        its complications. Research findings published in the medical
       literature suggest harmful interactions between botanicals and
        antiretroviral medications; however some reports also suggest
   beneficial effects from botanical/drug combinations. The widespread use
   of botanicals by persons with HIV-infection and the concomitant use of
         pharmaceutical drugs pose risks to effective treatment for
    HIV-infection and support the need for this initiative. In addition,
      reports of beneficial interactions need to be investigated. This
    initiative is intended to stimulate investigator-initiated biomedical
   research on botanical/drug interactions in vitro, in animal models, and
         in phase I/II clinical studies relevant to the treatment of
       HIV-infection and its complications. Research supported by this
    initiative is expected to prevent adverse botanical/drug interactions
      during therapy for HIV-infection and its complications, establish
     possible synergistic combinations of botanicals with pharmaceutical
      drugs, and increase our knowledge of the mechanisms of action of
   botanicals. The information developed on interactions between botanical
        substances and pharmaceutical agents used in the treatment of
    HIV-infection and its complications is expected to provide the public
       and health professionals with the information necessary to make
                       appropriate treatment choices.

                             Healthy People 2010

    The Public Health Service (PHS) is committed to achieving the health
   promotion and disease prevention objectives of "Healthy People 2010," a
   PHS- led national activity for setting priority areas. This Request for
    Applications (RFA), Botanical/Drug Interactions in HIV, is related to
    one or more of the priority areas. Potential applicants may obtain a
   copy of "Healthy People 2010" at http://www.health.gov/healthypeople/.

                          Eligibility Requirements

    Applications may be submitted by domestic and foreign, for-profit and
    non- profit organizations, public and private, such as universities,
   colleges, hospitals, laboratories, units of State and local government,
   and eligible agencies of the Federal government. Racial/ethnic minority
     individuals, women, and persons with disabilities are encouraged to
                      apply as Principal Investigators.

                            Mechanism of Support

    This RFA will use the National Institutes of Health (NIH) R01 and R21
      award mechanisms. Responsibility for the planning, direction, and
   execution of the proposed project will be solely that of the applicant.
   This RFA is a one- time solicitation. Future revised applications will
    compete with all investigator- initiated applications and be reviewed
     according to the customary peer review procedures. The anticipated
                        award date is September 2002.

       Specific application instructions have been modified to reflect
   "MODULAR GRANT" and "JUST_IN_TIME" streamlining efforts that have been
   adopted by the NIH. Complete and detailed instructions and information
    on Modular Grant applications have been incorporated into the PHS 398
   (rev. 5/2001). Additional information on Modular Grants can be found at
          http://grants.nih.gov/grants/funding/modular/modular.htm.

                               Funds Available

    The NCCAM intends to commit approximately $600,000 total costs in FY
    2002 to fund one or two R21 and one or two R01 grants in response to
    this RFA. An R21 applicant may request a project period of up to two
     years and a budget of up to $125,000 direct costs per year. An R01
      applicant may request a project period of up to three years and a
     budget of up to $375,000 direct costs per year. The use of modular
       budgets applies to research grant applications requesting up to
     $250,000 direct costs per year. Because the nature and scope of the
     research proposed may vary, it is anticipated that the size of each
   award will also vary. Although the financial plans of the NCCAM provide
    support for this program, awards pursuant to this RFA are contingent
    upon the availability of funds and the receipt of a sufficient number
   of meritorious applications. At this time, it is not known if this RFA
                              will be reissued.

                             Research Objectives

   The main objectives of this initiative are to gain information that can
   help to prevent adverse botanical/drug interactions during therapy for
   HIV- infection and its complications, to establish possible synergistic
    combinations of botanicals with pharmaceutical drugs used in treating
   HIV- infection and its complications, and to increase our knowledge of
                   the mechanisms of action of botanicals.

                                 Background

   Complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) practices are described as
       those not presently considered an integral part of conventional
   medicine. Eisenberg et al. estimated that 40% of the general population
       uses CAM and that 18% of individuals taking prescription drugs
     concurrently use herbs, high-dose vitamins, or both. They estimated
        that 15 million adults are at risk for potential drug-dietary
    supplement interactions, and that fewer than 40% of patients surveyed
    disclosed their CAM use to their physicians. For persons living with
    HIV/AIDS, estimates of CAM use range from 41% to 84%, with 21% to 27%
      of participants in various surveys reporting the use of herbs in
   addition to antiretroviral medication. In several surveys, only 43% to
    67% of persons living with HIV/AIDS reported that their doctors were
   aware of their CAM use and in one study, 25% of patients reported that
    the prescribing physician was unaware of their CAM use at all. At the
    same time, increasing numbers of physicians are referring patients to
       CAM providers or prescribing CAM interventions themselves. The
      frequency and extent of adverse drug reactions, or even positive
         effects due to concurrent use is unknown. Given the complex
   pharmaceutical regimens of antiretroviral therapy and the large numbers
   of patients who are taking both botanicals and antiretrovirals or other
     medications to treat complications, the risk of interactions may be
                                substantial.

       Interactions between botanicals and drugs may be classified as
   pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic. Pharmacokinetic interactions result
    in a change in the amount of available drug through an effect on the
     absorption, transport, distribution, metabolism or excretion of the
    drug. Pharmacodynamic interactions alter the pharmacologic effect of
          the drug and may be inhibitory, additive, or synergistic.
     P-glycoprotein, important to cellular transport, and the cytochrome
     P450 enzyme system have significant roles in the metabolism of HIV
        medications. P-glycoprotein's action in intestinal cell wall,
      hepatocytes, and renal tubular cells affects drug absorption and
      excretion in bile and urine. The cytochrome P450 system contains
         several families of isoenzymes with the most important for
      antiretroviral drug metabolism being 3A4 (CYP3A4). The cytochrome
   enzyme system metabolizes most of the pharmaceuticals currently used in
        the treatment of HIV and many of the investigational drugs in
    development, as well as being an important pathway for the metabolism
                      of certain botanical substances.

   Recent research regarding interaction between herbs and pharmaceuticals
    used to treat HIV-infection demonstrate the real dangers of combining
    herbal therapies with antiretroviral therapy. In a study with healthy
     volunteers, St. John's wort decreased blood levels of the protease
        inhibitor indinavir to levels that in patients on therapy for
   HIV-infection could lead to treatment failure. St. John's wort is known
      to induce CYP3A4 for which protease inhibitors are substrates. A
    separate study demonstrated an interaction between garlic and another
     protease inhibitor, saquinavir, that is known to be a substrate for
     CYP3A4. Healthy volunteers were given saquinavir alone followed by
      garlic tablets in doses equivalent to culinary amounts of garlic.
     Garlic lowered the blood levels of saquinavir not only while it was
    being taken, but also after a washout period. In vitro studies of the
   effect of garlic on CYP3A4 yield conflicting results some inducing and
      some suppressing activity of CYP3A4. The exact mechanism of this
    interaction is not known and may be due to the induction of CYP3A4 or
      P-glycoprotein. This herb/drug interaction also poses the risk of
   treatment failure in patients on therapy for HIV, even if they are only
    eating garlic. Since Milk thistle, ginseng, and skullcap are known to
       affect CYP450 metabolism in vitro, they also may interact with
                  medications used to treat HIV-infection.

     In addition, the possibility of botanical/drug interactions having
       beneficial effects on the treatment of HIV-infection should be
    investigated. In a clinical study, use of a mushroom extract enhanced
      the effect of ddI. Also, an anecdotal report in an HIV community
       newspaper claims benefit from the use of olive leaf extract in
      combination with 3TC. Research is needed to understand better the
        documented and potential interactions, as well as to identify
       additional herb/drug combinations that may pose risks or offer
   benefits. The award of research grants through this program will permit
             exploration of the range of possible interactions.

                                    Goals

   The proposed initiative is expected to stimulate investigator-initiated
   biomedical research on botanical/drug interactions in vitro, in animal
    models, and in phase I/II or case control clinical studies. The phase
    I/II clinical studies are expected to examine the pharmacokinetics or
   pharmacodynamics of the botanical/drug combination in contrast to these
    parameters when the botanical or drug is administered alone. This RFA
      invites proposals designed to explore the cellular and molecular
    effects of botanical interactions with proprietary drugs, or studies
   which may help to predict the effects of the botanicals on drug action
       and metabolism in vivo. Case control studies should be aimed at
    elucidating the relationship between a botanical product and specific
    events (adverse or beneficial) in the presence of a proprietary drug.
     Studies may include biomarkers such as CD4 counts or viral loads as
                         secondary outcome measures.

                            Special Requirements

       The NCCAM does not usually accept research applications in the
    botanical category that focus on the isolation of active ingredients
         from herbal preparations, except when this is necessary for
     identification and standardization of optimal whole products, when
    comparisons are being made to the complex product, or to investigate
     metabolic pathways and mechanisms of action as part of the proposed
      research project. Therefore, conventional drug discovery and drug
        development approaches using botanicals as the source are not
   considered to be within the scope of this RFA. It is the responsibility
   of the applicant to document the characterization, standardization, and
   quality control of the botanical products chosen. Research projects can
   be basic (mechanistic) or clinical studies other than Phase III trials.
   For the purpose of this RFA, a Phase III trial is defined as a broadly
   based prospective investigation usually involving a substantial number
     of human subjects either at a single site or at multiple sites. The
       primary objective of such trials is to evaluate an experimental
   intervention in comparison with a standard or control intervention, or
    to compare two or more existing treatments. In Phase III trials, the
      primary endpoint is usually a significant change in an identified
      clinical outcome. The definition includes interventions given for
      disease prevention, prophylaxis, diagnosis, or therapy. Research
      components involving phase I and II clinical trials must include
    provisions for assessment of patient eligibility and status, rigorous
        data management, quality assurance, and auditing procedures.

   NIH policy requires data and safety monitoring for all clinical trials
    with the method and degree of monitoring being commensurate with the
   risks (NIH Policy for Data Safety and Monitoring, NIH Guide for Grants
                        and Contracts, June 12, 1998:
    http://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not98-084.html). The
   NIH has also released "Further Guidance On A Data And Safety Monitoring
         For Phase I and Phase II Trials", NIH Guide, June 5, 2000:
   http://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-OD-00-038.html. In
   addition, NCCAM requires that all masked clinical trials, regardless of
    size, establish an independent data and safety monitoring board. The
    Data Safety Monitoring Guidelines for NCCAM-supported clinical trials
                              are available at:
    http://nccam.nih.gov/nccam/fi/research/guidelines/safety.html. Funds
     should be budgeted for these activities. They should not duplicate
   internal review and monitoring systems that are already in place at the
                                institution.

   Inclusion of Women and Minorities in Research Involving Human Subjects

    It is the policy of the NIH that women and members of minority groups
       and their sub-populations must be included in all NIH-supported
   clinical research projects unless a clear and compelling justification
   is provided indicating that inclusion is inappropriate with respect to
   the health of the subjects or the purpose of the research. This policy
   results from the NIH Revitalization Act of 1993 (Section 492B of Public
                                Law 103-43).

   All investigators proposing clinical research should read the AMENDMENT
    "NIH Guidelines for Inclusion of Women and Minorities as Subjects in
   Clinical Research - Amended, October, 2001," published in the NIH Guide
                 for Grants and Contracts on October 9, 2001
   (http://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-OD-02-001.html); a
          complete copy of the updated Guidelines are available at
   http://grants.nih.gov/grants/funding/women_min/guidelines_amended_10_20
    01.htm. The amended policy incorporates: the use of an NIH definition
        of clinical research; updated racial and ethnic categories in
      compliance with the new OMB standards; clarification of language
   governing NIH-defined Phase III clinical trials consistent with the new
    PHS Form 398; and updated roles and responsibilities of NIH staff and
      the extramural community. The policy continues to require for all
     NIH-defined Phase III clinical trials that: a) all applications or
      proposals and/or protocols must provide a description of plans to
   conduct analyses, as appropriate, to address differences by sex/gender
   and/or racial/ethnic groups, including subgroups if applicable; and b)
     investigators must report annual accrual and progress in conducting
     analyses, as appropriate, by sex/gender and/or racial/ethnic group
                                differences.

      Inclusion of Children as Participants in Research Involving Human
                                  Subjects

   It is the policy of NIH that children (i.e., individuals under the age
    of 21) must be included in all human subjects research, conducted or
    supported by the NIH, unless there are scientific and ethical reasons
      not to include them. This policy applies to all initial (Type 1)
       applications submitted for receipt dates after October 1, 1998.

    All investigators proposing research involving human subjects should
    read the "NIH Policy and Guidelines" on the Inclusion of Children as
   Participants in Research Involving Human Subjects that was published in
   the NIH Guide for Grants and Contracts, March 6, 1998, and is available
                        at the following URL address:
       http://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not98-024.html.

   Investigators also may obtain copies of these policies from the program
   staff listed under INQUIRIES. Program staff may also provide additional
                 relevant information concerning the policy.

     Required Education on the Protection of Human Subject Participants

      NIH policy requires education on the protection of human subject
       participants for all investigators submitting NIH proposals for
   research involving human subjects. This policy announcement is found in
   the NIH Guide for Grants and Contracts Announcement dated June 5, 2000,
                          at the following website:
     http://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-OD-00-039.html.

                URLS in NIH Grant Applications or Appendices

    All applications and proposals for NIH funding must be self-contained
   within specified page limitations. For R01 applications, the limit for
   Items a-d in the Research Plan is 25 pages, while R21 applications have
   a limit of 15 pages. Unless otherwise specified in an NIH solicitation,
     internet addresses (URLs) should not be used to provide information
    necessary to the review because reviewers are under no obligation to
    view the Internet sites. Reviewers are cautioned that their anonymity
       may be compromised when they directly access an Internet site.

    Public Access to Research Data Through the Freedom of Information Act

      The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-110 has been
    revised to provide public access to research data through the Freedom
    of Information Act (FOIA) under some circumstances. Data that are (1)
   first produced in a project that is supported in whole or in part with
   Federal funds and (2) cited publicly and officially by a Federal agency
    in support of an action that has the force and effect of law (i.e., a
        regulation) may be accessed through FOIA. It is important for
     applicants to understand the basic scope of this amendment. NIH has
                            provided guidance at:
     http://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/a110/a110_guidance_dec1999.htm.

   Applicants may wish to place data collected under this RFA in a public
     archive, which can provide protections for the data and manage the
    distribution for an indefinite period of time. If so, the application
   should include a description of the archiving plan in the study design
   and include information about this in the budget justification section
    of the application. In addition, applicants should think about how to
       structure informed consent statements and other human subjects
    procedures given the potential for wider use of data collected under
                                 this award.

                              Letter of Intent

     Prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent that
      includes a descriptive title of the proposed research, the name,
      address, and telephone number of the Principal Investigator, the
    identities of other key personnel and participating institutions, and
    the number and title of this RFA. Although a letter of intent is not
      required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of a
    subsequent application, the information that it contains allows NCCAM
    staff to estimate the potential review workload and plan the review.

        Mail/Fax letters of intent on or before February 28, 2002 to:

                       Morgan N. Jackson, M.D., M.P.H.
         National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine
                        National Institutes of Health
                       6707 Democracy Blvd., Suite 106
                           Bethesda, MD 20892-5475
                          Telephone: (301) 402-1278
                             FAX: (301) 480-3621
                            Email: mj145m@nih.gov

                           Application Procedures

     The PHS 398 research grant application instructions and forms (rev.
   5/2001) at http://grants.nih.gov/grants/funding/phs398/phs398.html must
    be used in applying for these grants. This version of the PHS 398 is
   available in an interactive, searchable format. For further assistance
   contact GrantsInfo, Telephone 301/435-0714, Email: GrantsInfo@nih.gov.

            Specific Instructions for Modular Grant Applications

   The modular grant concept establishes specific modules in which direct
       costs may be requested as well as a maximum level for requested
     budgets. Only limited budgetary information is required under this
   approach. The just-in-time concept allows applicants to submit certain
      information only when there is a possibility for an award. It is
    anticipated that these changes will reduce the administrative burden
       for the applicants, reviewers and NIH staff. The research grant
                  application form PHS 398 (rev. 5/2001) at
    http://grants.nih.gov/grants/funding/phs398/phs398.html is to be used
   in applying for these grants, with modular budget instructions provided
               in Section C of the application instructions. .

              Specific Instructions for R21 Grant Applications
     * The purpose of the NCCAM's Exploratory/Developmental Research (R21)
       grant mechanism is to provide investigators, at all career levels,
       with a funding opportunity for exploring the feasibility, as well
       as the development, of projects investigating botanical/drug
       interactions in HIV. The R21 mechanism is specifically intended to
       support innovative ideas where preliminary data, as evidence of
       feasibility, are sparse or do not exist. These grants are not
       intended for large-scale undertakings or to support or supplement
       ongoing research. Rather, R21-supported projects are intended to
       serve as a basis for planning and strengthening future
       investigator-initiated research project grant applications (R01).
       It is important to note that, while originality of approach and
       potential significance of the proposed research are major
       considerations in evaluation for funding R21 grants, the applicant
       is also responsible for presenting the background literature that
       provides some basis for the approach and developing a rigorous
       research plan.
     * For R21 applications, Direct Costs are limited to a maximum of
       $125,000 per year for a maximum of two years. Direct Costs
       requested for the proposed period may not exceed $250,000. Direct
       costs should be requested in increments of $25,000 (Modular
       Budget). Total Costs should equal the modular Direct Costs plus
       Facilities and Administrative (F&A) costs. The award is
       nonrenewable and may not be used to supplement an ongoing project.
     * Do not exceed a total of fifteen pages for Items a-d in the
       Research Plan. Tables and figures are included in the page
       limitation. Applications that exceed the page limitation or NIH
       requirements for type size and margins (refer to PHS 398
       application for details) will be returned to the applicant without
       further consideration. The fifteen-page limitation does not include
       Items e-i (Human Subjects, Vertebrate Animals, Literature Cited,
       Consortia, and Consultants).
     * Color illustrations or original photographs may be included in an
       Appendix. These are allowed only if there are copies of black and
       white figures appearing in the body of the application. No other
       appendix material is permitted.
     * Applications not following the above instructions will be returned
       to the applicant without review.

    The RFA label available in the PHS 398 (rev. 5/2001) application form
   must be affixed to the bottom of the face page of the application. Type
   the RFA number on the label. Failure to use this label could result in
    delayed processing of the application such that it may not reach the
     review committee in time for review. In addition, the RFA title and
   number must be typed on line 2 of the face page of the application form
     and the YES box must be marked. The RFA label is also available at:
          http://grants.nih.gov/grants/funding/phs398/label-bk.pdf.

   Submit a typewritten, signed original of the application, including the
         Checklist, and three signed photocopies, in one package to:

                        Center for Scientific Review
                        National Institutes of Health
                  6701 Rockledge Drive, Room 1040, MSC 7710
                           Bethesda, MD 20892-7710
              Bethesda, MD 20817 (for express/courier service)

     At the time of submission, two additional copies of the application
                              must be sent to:

                            Dr. Martin Goldrosen
                     Director, Scientific Review Branch
         National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine
                       6707 Democracy Blvd., Suite 106
                           Bethesda, MD 20892-5475
                          Telephone: (301) 594-2014
                             FAX: (301) 480-2419
                            Email: mg85x@nih.gov

    Applications must be received by March 28, 2002. If an application is
   received after that date, it will be returned to the applicant without
                                   review.

   The Center for Scientific Review (CSR) will not accept any application
    in response to this RFA that is essentially the same as one currently
     pending initial review, unless the applicant withdraws the pending
        application. The CSR will not accept any application that is
    essentially the same as one already reviewed. This does not preclude
       the submission of substantial revisions of applications already
   reviewed, but such applications must include an Introduction addressing
                           the previous critique.

                            Review Considerations

   Upon receipt, applications will be reviewed for completeness by the CSR
        and responsiveness by NCCAM. Incomplete and/or non-responsive
       applications will be returned to the applicant without further
                               consideration.

      Applications that are complete and responsive to the RFA will be
     evaluated for scientific and technical merit by an appropriate peer
      review group convened by the NCCAM in accordance with the review
       criteria stated below. As part of the initial merit review, all
   applications will receive a written critique and may undergo a process
   in which only those applications deemed to have the highest scientific
   merit, generally the top half of the applications under review, will be
   discussed, assigned a priority score, and receive a second level review
                   by the NCCAM National Advisory Council.

                               Review Criteria

   The goals of NIH-supported research are to advance our understanding of
   biological systems, improve the control of disease, and enhance health.
       In the written comments reviewers will be asked to discuss the
    following aspects of the application in order to judge the likelihood
      that the proposed research will have a substantial impact on the
    pursuit of these goals. Each of these criteria will be addressed and
        considered in assigning the overall score, weighting them as
    appropriate for each application. Note that the application does not
    need to be strong in all categories to be judged likely to have major
   scientific impact and thus deserve a high priority score. For example,
     an investigator may propose to carry out important work that by its
     nature is not innovative but is essential to move a field forward.

   (1) Significance: Does this study address an important problem? If the
   aims of the application are achieved, how will scientific knowledge be
    advanced? What will be the effect of these studies on the concepts or
                       methods that drive this field?

      (2) Approach: Are the conceptual framework, design, methods, and
   analyses adequately developed, well-integrated, and appropriate to the
    aims of the project? Does the applicant acknowledge potential problem
                   areas and consider alternative tactics?

    (3) Innovation: Does the project employ novel concepts, approaches or
       methods? Are the aims original and innovative? Does the project
        challenge existing paradigms or develop new methodologies or
                                technologies?

    (4) Investigator: Is the investigator appropriately trained and well
   suited to carry out this work? Is the work proposed appropriate to the
    experience level of the principal investigator and other researchers
                                  (if any)?

   (5) Environment: Does the scientific environment in which the work will
      be done contribute to the probability of success? Do the proposed
       experiments take advantage of unique features of the scientific
      environment or employ useful collaborative arrangements? Is there
                     evidence of institutional support?

    Because the exploratory grant mechanism (R21) is designed to support
    innovative ideas, preliminary data as evidence of feasibility of the
       project are not required. However, the applicant does have the
   responsibility for developing a sound research plan approach, including
     appropriate statistical analyses and sample size calculations where
    appropriate. Innovation of the project and potential significance of
   the proposed research will be major considerations in the evaluation of
                               this mechanism.

    In addition to the above criteria, in accordance with NIH policy, all
      applications will also be reviewed with respect to the following:
     * The adequacy of plans to include both genders, minorities and their
       subgroups, and children as appropriate for the scientific goals of
       the research. Plans for the recruitment and retention of subjects
       will also be evaluated.
     * The reasonableness of the proposed budget and duration in relation
       to the proposed research.
     * The adequacy of the proposed protection for humans, animals or the
       environment, to the extent they may be adversely affected by the
       project proposed in the application.

                                  Schedule

              Letter of Intent Receipt Date: February 28, 2002
                  Application Receipt Date: March 28, 2002
                         Council Review: August 2002
               Earliest Anticipated Start Date: September 2002

                               Award Criteria

      Award criteria that will be used to make award decisions include:
     * scientific merit (as determined by peer review)
     * aavailability of funds
     * programmatic priorities.

                                  Inquiries

      Inquiries concerning this RFA are encouraged. The opportunity to
     clarify any issues or answer questions from potential applicants is
         welcome. Direct inquiries regarding programmatic issues to:

                       Morgan N. Jackson, M.D., M.P.H.
         National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine
                       6707 Democracy Blvd., Suite 106
                           Bethesda, MD 20892-5475
                          Telephone: (301) 402-1278
                             FAX: (301) 480-3621
                            Email: mj145m@nih.gov

                Direct inquiries regarding review issues to:

                            Dr. Martin Goldrosen
                     Director, Scientific Review Branch
         National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine
                       6707 Democracy Blvd., Suite 106
                           Bethesda, MD 20892-5475
                          Telephone: (301) 594-2014
                             FAX: (301) 480-2419
                            Email: mg85x@nih.gov

                Direct inquiries regarding fiscal matters to:

                            Mrs. Victoria Carper
                          Grants Management Officer
         National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine
                        National Institutes of Health
                       6707 Democracy Blvd., Suite 106
                           Bethesda, MD 20892-5475
                             Phone: 301-594-9102
                              Fax: 301-480-3621
                             Email: vp8g@nih.gov

                          Authority and Regulations

   This program is described in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance
   No. 93.213. Awards are made under authorization of Sections 301 and 405
    of the Public Health Service Act as amended (42 USC 241 and 284) and
    administered under NIH grants policies and Federal Regulations 42 CFR
      52 and 45 CFR Parts 74 and 92. This program is not subject to the
      intergovernmental review requirements of Executive Order 12372 or
     Health Systems Agency review. The PHS strongly encourages all grant
   recipients to provide a smoke-free workplace and promote the non-use of
   all tobacco products. In addition, Public Law 103-227, the Pro-Children
   Act of 1994, prohibits smoking in certain facilities (or in some cases,
      any portion of a facility) in which regular or routine education,
   library, day care, health care, or early childhood development services
    are provided to children. This is consistent with the PHS mission to
     protect and advance the physical and mental health of the American
                                   people.
     * Volume Index
     * NIH Guide Main Index

                    << Back to Requests for Applications

     __________________________________________________________________

     NCCAM Home / For Investigators /
          Funding Opportunities      [Menu...______________________] Go
        Please send questions and comments to nccam@nccam.nih.gov.
