http://www.lbl.gov/Science-Articles/Archive/LSD-waterchannel.html


   [datebox.gif] December 18, 2001 [datebox.gif]

   [pizel.gif] Berkeley Lab Research News

   [pixel.gif] ARCHITECTURE OF A CELL-MEMBRANE WATER CHANNEL: High
               Resolution Unveils Secrets of Specificity and Speed
                 Paul Preuss, (510) 486-6249, paul_preuss@lbl.gov


      Lab news releases
      [pizel.gif]
      Sign up to receive our news releases via email
      [pizel.gif]
      Science Beat: most recent science news here
      [pizel.gif]
      Berkeley Lab home page
      [pizel.gif]
      Lab A to Z website index
      [pizel.gif]

   Search news articles archive

   ____________ Search news stories
   [pizel.gif]

   BERKELEY, CA   The structure of one of the basic members of the
   cell-membrane water-channel family, a protein called aquaporin 1
   (AQP1), has been determined to a resolution of 2.2 angstroms -- 22
   hundred-billionths of a meter. The structure reveals the elegantly
   simple means by which AQP1 can transport water through the cell
   membrane at a high rate while effectively blocking everything else --
   even individual protons, the nuclei of hydrogen atoms.


                                           [pizel.gif] side view of a pore
      A side view of a pore (blue dots) in the water-channel protein AQP1,
     which pierces the cell membrane. Cell exterior is at top, interior at
          bottom. The pore is about 2.8 angstroms across at its narrowest.

   Biophysicist Bing Jap led a team from Lawrence Berkeley National
   Laboratory's Life Sciences Division in the difficult and painstaking
   crystallization of this membrane protein, whose crystal structure was
   then solved from x-ray diffraction at Beamline 5.0.2 of Berkeley Lab's
   Advanced Light Source. Their report appears in Nature, December 20,
   2001.
   In almost all cells, from bacteria to those found in a variety of human
   tissues, pores embedded in cell membranes transport water rapidly into
   or out of the cell. Body temperature, digestion, reproduction, fluid
   pressure in the eye, and water conservation in the kidney are only a
   few of the processes in humans that depend on the proper functioning of
   cellular water channels.
   "Membrane proteins are a very large class of proteins; some 30 percent
   of the genes in the human genome code for them. But they are
   notoriously difficult to crystallize, and only a few structures have
   been solved at very high resolution," Jap says.
   Electron-microscope crystallography can use very small crystals, and
   the structure of AQP1 had previously been solved to a resolution of
   about 4 angstoms using this technique. At this resolution it is
   impossible to see individual water molecules, however, so vital
   features were left out or mistakenly characterized.
   Jap and his colleagues crystallized AQP1, closely similar to that in
   human and other cells, from bovine red blood cells. They liberated
   enough protein from "gallons of blood" to make .2-millimeter crystals,
   suitable for x-ray crystallography at the Advanced Light Source.
   "AQP1 is interesting because it is so specific for water" says Jap.
   "The key question was how it achieves this specificity. Theorists had
   come up with lots of ideas, but before we saw the structure in
   high-resolution, nobody knew how it was accomplished."
   Architecturally, AQP1 is an assembly of four units, each with three
   major structural features: each has an entrance, or "vestibule," on the
   outside of the cell envelope, connected to a similar vestibule inside
   the cell by a long, narrow pore.


                                            [pizel.gif] top view of a pore
        From outside the cell, the four units of the water-channel protein
     AQP1 are visible, each with a pore that penetrates the cell membrane.

   "The secret of AQP1's specificity is two-fold: it selects for size and
   for chemical nature," Jap says. "There is a very narrow constriction in
   the pore, which admits no molecule bigger than water. To keep out
   molecules smaller than water there is also a chemical filter, formed by
   the specific orientation and distribution of the amino acid residues
   lining the pore."

   Molecules attempting to enter the channel are bound to water molecules
   that are stripped away in the pore; charged species are therefore left
   with net electrical charge. "The filter strongly rejects charged
   molecules or ions, even as small as single protons," Jap explains.
   The unique distribution of amino acid residues along the pore wall also
   accounts for the channel's ability to move water quickly, explains
   Peter Walian, a member of the team that solved the structure. "It's a
   schizophrenic environment, half hydrophilic and half hydrophobic" --
   that is, half water-loving and half water-fearing. "Water molecules
   readily get in because of the hydrophilic sites, but the hydrophobic
   regions prevent them from binding too frequently."
   Thus water and only water flows freely in and out of the cell through
   AQP1's pores, the direction of flow depending only on changing relative
   pressure inside and outside the cell. "It's a beautiful mechanism,"
   Walian remarks. "It's remarkable that nobody thought of it before now."
   "This is what structural biology is for," Jap says. "It shows us how
   extremely simple nature's solutions can be."
   "Structural basis of water specific transport through AQP1 water
   channel," by Haixin Sui, Bong-Gyoon Han, John K. Lee, Peter Walian, and
   Bing K. Jap, appears in the 20 December 2001 issue of the journal
   Nature.
   The Berkeley Lab is a U.S. Department of Energy national laboratory
   located in Berkeley, California. It conducts unclassified scientific
   research and is managed by the University of California.
