http://www.rmc.ca.gov/locations/photo-3.html


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                        RMC Home
                        About Us
                        RMC Territory Map
                        Recent News
                        Our Plans and Projects
                        Our Governing Board
                        Next Board Meeting and Agenda
                        Our Political Representatives






   __________ search
      (*)  My CA


   Peck Road Water Conservation Park

   Peck Road Water Conservation Park

   PECK ROAD WATER CONSERVATION PARK

   5401 Peck Road (south of Live Oak)
   Arcadia, CA 91006
   Thomas Bros. Guide Map: Page 597, F-3
   (626) 575-5527
   The entrance is difficult to find. It's the first right in the middle
   of the block on the west side of Peck Road south of Live Oak. The
   entrance to the parking lot is usually open by 7:30 am, but you can
   park on the street and walk in earlier than that.
   The park is adjacent to a reservoir (spreading ground) operated on a
   fill and drain basis to replenish the groundwater supply. The reservoir
   is the start of the Rio Hondo River. The park is the north end of the
   LARIO (Los Angeles Rio Hondo) Bike Trail which follows the Rio Hondo
   and the Los Angeles Rivers to the beach at Long Beach. Amenities
   include a picnic area.
   A description of birding at this park can be found at
   http://www.pasadenaaudubon.org/peckpit.html. Some of the observations
   are excerpted below.
   "Winter is the best time to visit - birds have included Swamp Sparrow,
   Gray Flycatcher, Scissor-tailed Flycatcher, Plumbeous Solitary Vireo,
   Ross' Goose, Glaucous-winged Gull, and others.... The variety is
   terrific. American Pipits, Savannah Sparrows and Western Meadowlarks
   can be found in the open areas...Now turn your attention...to the water
   and view American Wigeon, Lesser Scaup and Ring-necked Ducks, Northern
   Shoveler, Canada Geese and Snowy Egrets, Eared, Western and Clark's
   Grebes... Even summer can be interesting. Barn Swallows have nested
   nearby. Hooded and Bullock's Orioles are also present....And, of
   course, the exotics are always around - Orange Bishops, Nutmeg
   Mannikens, Red-crowned Parrots and Yellow-chevroned Parakeets are the
   most regularly seen. Not only is the variety great but it's
   conveniently close, and easy to bird in just a few hours."

                             Back to Top of Page
             © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor.
                    Conditions of Use     Privacy Policy
