http://www.cerine.bnl.gov/docs/about_cerine.html

   CERINE

                  Collaboration for Environmental Research
                              In the North-East


     About us | Data | Satellite Info | Today's Conditions | Education |
                        Other Resources | Contact Us

         Collaboration for Environmental Research In the North-East
               Environmental Research and Educational Outreach

                                   Summary
                                Introduction
                            Research Applications
                            Educational Outreach

                                [Image1.gif]

                                   CERINE

                      A Cooperative Initiative Between

                      Marine Sciences Research Center &
                 Inst. for Terrestrial and Planetary Atmos.
                     State University of New York (SUNY)
                            Stony Brook, NY 11794

                     Environmental Sciences Department &
                       Office of Educational Programs
                    Brookhaven National Laboratory (BNL)
                               Upton, NY 11793

   SUMMARY

   This research and education effort utilizes a local satellite receiving
   station for ingesting real-time, high-resolution (~ 1 km x 1 km)
   remotely-sensed environmental information. This receiving system is
   capable of receiving satellite observations for the entire eastern
   seaboard region from the operational NOAA polar-orbiting series of
   satellites as well as the NASA Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor
   (SeaWiFS) mission satellite. These satellites, and their associated
   suite of sensors,  provide information on sea surface temperature,
   clouds, atmospheric temperature and water vapor profiles, ocean surface
   wind speed, ocean phytoplankton and chlorophyll amounts, indices for
   terrestrial vegetation amounts, and atmospheric aerosol optical depth
   estimates. Having access to these data supports a number of research
   studies and operational projects that are currently underway and/or
   planned for the future. Moreover, it  offers a number of opportunities
   for more collaborative research between SUNY and BNL scientists in the
   area of environmental studies, and even facilitates interactions with
   the Eastern Region Headquarters of the National Weather Service.
   Finally, the presence of this system, in conjunction with the data it
   receives, enhances the educational experience provided by both
   institutions, having positive impacts on the undergraduate and graduate
   environmental study programs at SUNY, as well as the high school and
   community outreach educational programs provided by BNL.

   INTRODUCTION

   Satellite remote sensing offers a unique and powerful method for
   providing observations of the Earth's oceanic, atmospheric and
   terrestrial environments. One category of satellites used for this
   purpose is referred to as polar-orbiting satellites. These satellites
   are placed in a relatively low Earth orbit (~800 km) and circle the
   Earth about every 90 minutes. They are equipped with a number of
   sensors that provide observations of radiation emitted/ scattered from
   the ocean/atmosphere/land system that can be used to derive a number of
   important environmental quantities. Depending on the exact satellite
   orbit and sensor characteristics, each area of the Earth is observed
   about twice per day (more frequently in high latitudes) at horizontal
   resolutions that vary from about 1 km to about 50 km. The National
   Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) maintains a fleet of
   polar-orbiting satellites in order to provide timely measurements of
   evolving atmospheric and oceanic conditions. The most widely used
   environmental sensors on these satellites include the Advanced Very
   High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) and the Advanced Tiros Operational
   Vertical Sounder (ATOVS). The AVHRR is a high-resolution (1 km),
   multi-channel visible and infrared radiometer used for analyzing cloud
   variability and heights, deriving sea surface temperature (SST), land
   vegetation indices, and total outgoing longwave radiation. TOVS is a
   moderate resolution (~30km), multi-channel infrared and microwave
   radiometer that provides estimates of temperature and moisture profiles
   of the atmosphere, ocean surface wind speed, as well as column
   precipitable and liquid water. In addition to the satellites operated
   by NOAA, there are also research environmental satellites sponsored by
   the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). One such
   example, is Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWiFS) which
   measures ocean color in order to derive high-resolution (1 km)
   distributions of phytoplankton and sediment concentrations. In
   addition, SeaWiFS data can be used for estimating atmospheric aerosol
   amounts. Due to the unique measurement characteristics of these
   sensors, along with their relatively homogeneous and routine sampling,
   these remotely sensed data have become invaluable to the environmental
   sciences communities.

   Data from polar-orbiting satellites are typically communicated back to
   Earth in two ways. One involves storing a full day's worth of data
   (i.e., the full globe), often at a reduced resolution, on board the
   satellite and dumping it all at once over specific high-capacity
   downlink stations. The second way involves broadcasting the data that
   are currently being observed, in complete/high-resolution form,
   directly back to Earth in real-time. Thus a real-time ground station
   can receive data for any area the satellite passes over in which there
   is an unobstructed "line-of-sight" between the receiving dish and the
   orbiting satellite. For example, the upper-left panel of Figure 1 shows
   the local region that could be indirectly "observed" via a receiving
   station located on Long Island for three different local horizon limits
   (e.g., trees/buildings obstructions). As is evident from the figure,
   this station could obtain real-time data for the entire eastern
   seaboard region and beyond. Applications are outlined in the following
   section.  The impacts on education and community outreach afforded from
   a local environmental satellite receiving station are also outlined
   below.


   [Image2.jpg] [Image3.gif]
   [cloudfrac.jpg] Figure 1. (Upper Left) Circles indicate field-of- view
   of data received from a Long Island based receiving dish for horizon
   levels (e.g., trees and buildings) of 10, 20 and 30 degrees. (Upper
   Right) Composite sea surface temperature image from AVHRR data. (Lower
   Left) Two-channel (visible and infrared) cloud image from AVHRR data -
   gray indicates cloud-free areas, red indicates low-lying thick clouds,
   green indicates high thin clouds (i.e., non-raining), and white
   indicates high thick clouds (i.e. raining).

   RESEARCH APPLICATIONS

   This section highlights a number of SUNY and/or BNL research efforts
   that are or could be significantly enhanced by the satellite receiving
   station.
     * Mesoscale Model Initialization and Validation

   Atmospheric science faculty at Marine Sciences Research Center (MSRC)
       are routinely producing high-resolution (~5 km) operational
       mesoscale weather forecasts based on the Penn State / NCAR MM5
       numerical forecast model. Reception of real-time weather satellite
       data provides up-to-date information on SST and clouds, temperature
       and moisture profiles, as well as marine surface wind speed, column
       water vapor and cloud liquid water. These real-time data have the
       capability to greatly augment input and validation data for the
       mesoscale forecast system (see lower left panel of Figure 1). The
       most notable of these additions beyond conventional data sources is
       the 1-km resolution SST. This data would provide an invaluable
       resource (during clear periods) for setting the surface boundary
       condition in coastal waters for the MM5 model forecast. The
       profiles of atmospheric temperature and moisture as well as marine
       surface wind speed and cloud water that are obtained from the
       microwave sensors can be used as validation data for the model
       forecast, especially offshore where little or no in-situ data
       exist. Finally, it is expected that the "nowcast" (robust
       interpolation of current observations to a uniform grid) data sets
       produced by this forecast system will become an unmatched resource
       for studying the structure and variability of local weather and
       climate along with its influences on other environmental
       conditions.

     * Coastal Ocean Modeling System

   Efforts are presently underway to develop a coastal ocean modeling
       system to provide a framework for studying local coastal
       circulation and even providing local marine forecasts of SST and
       sea state. Atmospheric forcing data would come from the nowcast
       fields of the mesoscale atmospheric modeling system described
       above. Remotely-sensed, high-resolution SST is crucial for
       initializing and validating such a system (see upper right panel of
       Figure 1). Once this system has become "operational", its nowcast
       fields can provide transport estimates for chemical, geological and
       biological studies performed on the local area's coastal
       environment.

     * Ocean Color, Atmospheric Aerosol and Terrestrial Vegetation
       Research

   The SeaWiFS sensor provides unprecedented information on large-scale
       ocean color and biological properties. These properties include
       water-leaving radiance values in five visible wavelengths, visible
       attenuation estimates, as well as phytoplankton and chlorophyll
       concentrations. These data would be an invaluable asset for
       studying brown-tide, sediment load and low-order food chain
       characteristics associated with local waters. In addition, the
       long-wavelength channels provide estimates of aerosol optical
       thickness that could be used for studying the transport of
       pollutants and other particles into and out of the local area.
       Atmospheric aerosol loading and the integrity of retrievals of
       local biological properties from SeaWiFS ocean color are inexorably
       linked. Continuous access to these satellite data in combination
       with ongoing local measurements of ocean biological properties
       would provide a means for conducting statistically based validation
       studies of the accuracy of satellite biological retrievals for the
       local area. In particular, these satellite data would be of
       particular interest for ongoing NASA-funded Sensor Intercomparison
       and Merger for Biological and Interdisciplinary Oceanic Studies
       (SIMBIOS) research and for NOAA-funded aerosol studies. Both
       SeaWiFS and AVHRR data provide estimates of local vegetation
       amounts, known as normalized vegetation index (NDVI). These data
       are important for monitoring large-scale changes in terrestrial
       environmental conditions as well as investigating
       natural/anthropogenic stresses on ecological communities.

     * General Field Support

   Research carried out at MSRC and BNL often involves field projects,
       i.e. observations and/or deployments in the local coastal
       environment. Real-time data support of local weather conditions,
       and most notably of the state of the marine system via SST and
       ocean color would provide extremely valuable support for such
       projects. Access to these data in the planning and deployment
       stages would maximize the scientific return on what are typically
       very expensive missions that typically do not allow second chances.

   EDUCATION AND OUTREACH

   The impact of the satellite receiving system on educational programs
   and community outreach efforts is significant and broad. It involves an
   enhancement to opportunities at the undergraduate education levels at
   SUNY as well as the educational outreach opportunities offered by BNL,
   which in this case target high school classrooms. Moreover, the
   satellite system and data tie together the common environmental science
   efforts underway at SUNY, BNL and the Eastern Regional Headquarters of
   the National Weather Service. Each of these aspects is discussed
   briefly below.
     * Education Enrichment at SUNY

   [roof2.jpg]
   The presence of the satellite receiving station, and its associated
       data, has had an immediate and positive impact on the Mar 334
       Remote Sensing in Oceanography class at SUNY Stony Brook. The data
       have also augmented the diagnosis of the weather and associated
       physical processes in a number of other MSRC's undergraduate
       meteorology courses. For the remote sensing class, having access to
       the actual equipment that acquires the data, its associated
       processing software, and the data acquired from it has
       significantly enhanced the "hands-on" classroom experience as well
       as provided more meaningful applications for student projects.
       Examples of these projects include:Tuning and Evaluation of the
       Cloud-Filtering Parameters in the AVHRR SST Retrieval Algorithm at
       the MSRC Satellite Receiving Station by Joseph Olson and
       Implementation of SeaWiFS Decryption & Processing Scripts on
       TeraScan at the Marine Sciences Research Center by Eric Baptiste.
       In addition to the above educational experiences, it is expected
       that one or more atmospheric science (upper-level) students will
       have the opportunity for more direct hands-on experience with the
       receiving/processing system by enrolling in ATM 447 Senior Tutorial
       class.
       In 1999, SUNY received a funding award from NASA that established
       ITPA/MSRC as a Center of Excellence for Remote Sensing Research and
       Education. This funding helped established a computer classroom for
       conducting the remote sensing course as well as supported the
       acquisition of remote sensing processing software to aid classroom
       instruction. The remote sensing receiving system is the perfect
       addition to this "Center" to make it a comprehensive instructional
       environment for remote sensing education. This environment will be
       invaluable to the recently established Environmental Studies major
       that combines the environmental expertise of a number of
       departments across campus. Finally, the receiving system and
       associated data, along with the modeling systems they will augment,
       will offer a very rich resource for spawning graduate student
       research problems and their associated funding opportunities.

     * BNL Community Outreach to the High School Classroom

   BNL's Office of Educational Programs (OEP) has formal educational
       partnerships with a number of local school districts, all of whom
       are interested in offering activities in environmental science for
       their secondary students. For a number of years in late 80's and
       early 90's, OEP offered an in-service course in environmental
       science for local secondary teachers. Over 100 teachers took part
       in that program. Presently, OEP is putting together a
       world-wide-web based instructional unit on 'environmental
       prediction' for elementary school students, using sequences of
       weather maps. The satellite data received and disseminated by this
       initiative would be a valuable resource to this module. Moreover,
       with the availability of the satellite data, OEP could begin by
       offering an in-depth workshop for local teachers on what satellite
       data are available and how they can be utilized. The teachers would
       then develop proposals for classroom applications - ranging from
       use of the data in a distance learning format in environmental
       science classes, to its application in independent scientific
       investigations by students.

     * Improved Research and Educational Ties to the National Weather
       Service

   Access to data from polar orbiting satellites via the satellite
       receiving station would be a significant benefit to National
       Weather Service (NWS) Weather Forecast Offices (WFOs) over a
       12-state eastern region. Apart from the data from our satellite
       receiving station, access to near-real-time data from
       polar-orbiting satellites at the NWS WFOs in this region is via
       internet to various public web sites, a slow and unreliable
       process. While most WFOs must rely on geostationary weather
       satellite data, which is distributed to them via the NWS Eastern
       Regional Headquarters (ERH; Bohemia, Long Island), forecasters
       would still like to exploit the additional information provided by
       the polar-orbiting data, especially in data sparse regions (e.g.
       ocean). Although ERH is pursuing operational polar-orbiter data,
       none has been secured to date. Therefore, data from this satellite
       receiving station distributed to the NWS ERH not only enhances
       research opportunities between the collaborating agencies but could
       also have an impact on weather forecasts over the entire northeast.
       Polar-orbiter satellite data received at SUNY and archived at BNL
       may also significantly improve the research capabilities at the
       local New York City NWS WFO located at BNL and the ERH. Through
       existing agreements, BNL maintains a close collaboration with this
       WFO and ERH. Part of this collaboration includes near real-time
       access to WSR-88D (NEXRAD) data via a special data archive and
       distribution system. The first research study from this
       multi-agency collaboration was recently published. Hence, the
       additional research capabilities discussed above may stimulate
       further interaction and additional collaborative SUNY/BNL/NWS
       research. This is expected to include an enhancement in the types
       of internship opportunities available to SUNY atmospheric science
       majors at the local NWS offices.
     __________________________________________________________________

                   Brookhave National Laboratory [logo4cxx.gif]

                          We would like to hear from you!
                     Please send comments to WWW Administrator
