http://wawg.cap.gov/glider/glider.html

   06 December 2001

                             WAWG Glider Program

   The support I am getting, trying to get this glider program off the
   ground, is nothing short of incredible.
   As I said in the email I sent out via WAWG INFO. we are on a learning
   curve and hope to have the bugs out by spring. To answer your
   questions:
    1. This glider program is for the cadets first. and the seniors
       second.
    2. The qualifications are O-ride qualifications unless you have
       completed the o-ride program or have been to a flight encampment
       then you fall into a different category. If you have completed the
       0-ride program then you must be at least 14 before you can start
       flying. ( My thinking is that those who are planning to go past the
       o-ride program have an encampment under their belt= nothing written
       in stone ).
    3. The cost will be for the tow plane and for the glider. O-rides will
       be$5.00 provided costs of the tow plane are covered by National.
       This is a per flight cost. For lessons I expect the costs to be
       about $30.00 per flight.
    4. Keep watching the email and get your name on the list for flying
       when I announce we are having a glider day.
    5. Make sure that 75H is kept in a flying condition as it is the
       primary tow plane.

   With reference to tow pilots right now we have a group who where
   checked out and gained experence at the flight encampment. As spring
   approaches I quite sure that there will be changes. Qualifications will
   be dictated by Stan/ Eval people. I think I've gotten all the questions
   answered, if not send more email

   Glider Operations Officer: Capt Angus McKinnon

  December 2001

   I am hoping to fly again on the 8/9th of Dec. but we have a little
   problem.
   We are not 100% sure that the glider is in annual, and till we are sure
   it has to be grounded. Will keep all you glider groupies informed.

   Heard some complaints that people were not getting the word about these
   operations. I am using WAWG Info. as the primary means of notifying all
   about the glider.
   Also this program is just getting started and we are on a big learning
   curve and I am using these winter months to get the bugs out of the
   program.

   I am planning on conducting operations twice a month as long wx permits
   and we have people wanting to fly.

   Glider Operations Officer: Capt Angus McKinnon

   Return to   WAWG Page

   Every effort has been taken to comply with CAPR 110-1, including the
   following statements:

   "LINKS OR REFERENCES TO INDIVIDUALS OR COMPANIES DOES NOT CONSTITUTE AN
   ENDORSEMENT OF ANY INFORMATION, PRODUCT OR SERVICE YOU MAY RECEIVE FROM
   SUCH SOURCES."

   Warning: The information you are receiving is protected from
   interception or disclosure. Any person who intentionally distributes,
   reproduces or discloses its contents is subject to the penalties set
   forth in 18 United States Code Section 2511 and/or related state and
   federal laws of the United States.
