http://www.chicago.feb.gov/COOP%20Shell.pdf

   CONTINUITY OF OPERATIONS PLAN 2000 [INSERT YOUR DEPARTMENT OR AGENCY
   NAME] [INSERT YOUR DEPARTMENT OR AGENCY LOGO] FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY GSA
   uses "For Official Use Only" for sensitive, unclassified information.
   Insert agency text for this restrictive marking.) All personnel are
   reminded that information contained in this document is For LIMITED USE
   ONLY or FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY and is protected by the Privacy Act. It
   is to be used only to contact government personnel in response to an
   Agency emergency situation. Unauthorized use of this information may
   constitute an invasion of privacy. An example of information that may
   be included in this section follows; however, your Forward must be
   tailored to meet your unique needs. FORWARD - SAMPLE The General
   Services Administration has operations that must be performed, or
   rapidly and efficiently resumed, in an emergency. While the impact of
   an emergency cannot be predicted, planning for operations under such
   conditions can mitigate the impact of the emergency on our people, our
   facilities and our mission. Each of our regional offices has prepared a
   site specific Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP), and those plans are
   attached as annexes. These plans will be important resources for
   ensuring that we can continue to provide essential services to our
   clients. Administrator Release: 000215V15.0 2000 ANDREWS & ASSOCIATES,
   LLC. All rights reserved i APPROVALS By their signatures below, the
   following senior level officials certify that they have read this
   Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP) and fully understand the business
   resumption procedures to be followed in an emergency affecting the
   facilities and employees for which they are responsible. Please use
   format and provide this information below Approved:
   _______________________________ Date ____________ [Title] Approved:
   _______________________________ Date ____________ [Title] Approved:
   _______________________________ Date ____________ [Title] Approved:
   _______________________________ Date ____________ [Title] ii TABLE OF
   CONTENTS Section Page 1.0 Introduction
   ................................................................... 2.0
   Purpose
   .......................................................................
   . 3.0 Applicability and
   Scope................................................. 4.0 Authorities
   and References........................................... 5.0 Policy
   .......................................................................
   ..... 6.0
   Objective..............................................................
   ......... 7.0 Assumptions
   ................................................................. 8.0
   Definitions
   .....................................................................
   9.0
   Responsibilities.......................................................
   ...... 10.0
   Distribution...........................................................
   ........ 11.0 Site Vulnerability
   Analysis............................................ 12.0
   Implementation
   ............................................................ 13.0
   Essential Functions, Operations and Positions............ 14.0 Vital
   Records and Systems.......................................... 15.0
   Alternate
   Facilities........................................................ 16.0
   Interoperable Communications .................................... 17.0
   Training...............................................................
   ......... 18.0 Testing and
   Exercises.................................................. 19.0 Plan
   Maintenance ........................................................
   20.0 Management
   Plan........................................................ Listing of
   Appendices Telephone directories Successor contact information Primary
   and Secondary contact lists Vendor list Phase I, II, III personnel,
   localized and wide-spread Alternate facilities, listing and contact
   names, both localized and wide-spread Other support elements, COOP's or
   relationships FPS report on primary and secondary sites COOP
   maintenance team Overall budget iii 1.0 INTRODUCTION An example of
   information that may be included in this section follows; however, your
   introduction must be tailored to meet your unique needs. SAMPLE The
   General Services Administration (GSA) is the Federal government's
   landlord, telephone company, and supplier of commodities. As such, the
   GSA, by law and Executive Order, is required to have the capability to
   maintain continuous operations. Each GSA organizational element
   therefore must be prepared to continue to function during an emergency
   or threat of an emergency, and to efficiently and effectively resume
   critical operations if they are interrupted. Planning for meeting the
   demands of a wide spectrum of emergency scenarios is necessary, and is
   accomplished by developing continuity of operations plans. Personnel
   not identified in the first five days are to remain at their residences
   unless otherwise identified by their internal service Continuity of
   Operation Plans (COOP). All employees who are not required to report
   will be on call, standby status. Those employees who are not required
   to report for duty will be placed on paid administrative leave unless
   otherwise notified. 1 2.0 PURPOSE This Continuity of Operations Plan
   (COOP) provides policy and guidance for [Insert agency name] personnel
   at [Insert agency address], to ensure that critical operations are
   continued in the event of an emergency or threat of an emergency. The
   COOP provides guidance for, and facilitates the preparation of, site-
   or activity-specific plans and procedures that help ensure the safety
   of [Insert agency name] personnel and allow [Insert agency name]
   organizational elements to continue essential operations in the event
   of an emergency or threat of an emergency. The planning guidance and
   the plans to be developed in accordance with it do not address
   day-to-day activities that enable an organization to conduct or
   safeguard routine operations. The COOP environment is an emergency
   response environment. The determination of whether the COOP
   requirements of all the organizations located at a site can be best
   addressed in a single, all-inclusive plan, or by having each major
   organization prepare and coordinate separate plans that when combined
   become a site. As an extension of their other duties, [Insert agency
   name] leadership at all levels will ensure that personnel are aware of
   their COOP responsibilities. 2 3.0 APPLICABILITY AND SCOPE An example
   of information that may be included in this section follows; however,
   Applicability and Scope must be tailored to meet your unique needs. The
   provisions of this COOP are applicable to all [Insert agency name]
   personnel located at [Insert your agency address and include your zip
   code]. This plan is applicable to the full spectrum of manmade,
   natural, and technological emergencies and threats, with the exception
   of civil defense matters, which are addressed in other documentation. 3
   4.0 AUTHORITIES AND REFERENCES Insert any additional applicable
   Authorities or References COOP planning ensures the continuance and
   uninterrupted delivery of critical services to the public, other
   Federal agencies, tenants, clients, and [Insert agency name] personnel
   which is necessary to enable us to comply with existing statutes,
   executive orders, and mandates, among which are included the Stafford
   Act, and other applicable laws, statutes, and regulations. Principle
   documents mandating the development and implementation of the COOP,
   include: Executive Order 12472, Assignment of National Security and
   Emergency Preparedness Telecommunications Functions, April 3, 1984
   Executive Order 12656, Assignment of Emergency Preparedness
   Responsibilities, as amended, November 18, 1988 Executive Order 12919,
   National Defense Industrial Resources Preparedness, June 6, 1994 FPC
   60, Continuity of the Executive Branch of the Federal Government at the
   Headquarters Level During National Security Emergencies, dated November
   20, 1990 FPC 65, Federal Executive Branch, Continuity of Operations,
   July 26,1999 National Security Act of 1947, dated July 26, 1947, as
   amended Presidential Decision Directive 39, U.S. Policy on
   Counter-terrorism, June 21, 1995 Presidential Decision Directive 62,
   Protections Against Unconventional Threats to the Homeland and
   Americans Overseas, May 22, 1998 Presidential Decision Directive 63,
   Critical Infrastructure Protection, May 22, 1998 Presidential Decision
   Directive 67, Enduring Constitutional Government and Continuity of
   Government Operations, October 21,1998 Executive Order 12148, Federal
   Emergency Management, dated July 20, 1979, as amended Occupant
   Emergency Plan (OEP 44 CFR 101-2) 41 Code if Federal Regulations (CFR)
   101-2, Occupant Emergency Program, revised as of July 1, 1998 36 Code
   of Federal Regulations (CFR) 1236, Management of Vital Records, revised
   as of July 1, 1998 4 An example of information that may be included in
   this section follows; however, your policy should be tailored to meet
   your unique needs. 5.0 POLICY As a baseline of preparedness for the
   full range of potential emergencies, all Federal agencies are required
   to establish and maintain a viable COOP capability, which ensures the
   performance of their essential functions during any emergency, or
   situation that may disrupt normal operations. A viable COOP capability
   identifies essential functions and consists of plans and procedures,
   alternate facilities, and alternate interoperable communications and
   data support systems, reinforced by comprehensive training,
   orientation, and exercise programs. COOP capabilities must be
   maintained at a high level of readiness, be capable of being activated
   both with and without warning, achieve operational status no later than
   12 hours after activation, and maintain sustained operations for up to
   30 days or until termination. It is the policy of [Insert agency name]
   to respond quickly at all levels in the event of an emergency or
   threat, to include human, natural, technological, and other emergencies
   or threats, in order to continue essential internal operations and to
   provide support to the operations of client and external agencies. 5
   6.0 OBJECTIVE The objective of COOP planning is to direct and guide
   appropriate actions to assure the capability exists to continue core
   business functions and activities, and to achieve an orderly recovery
   from emergency situations across a wide range of potential emergencies
   or threats, including acts of nature, accidents, technological, and
   attack-related emergencies. COOP planning is simply a "good business
   practice", part of the fundamental mission of agencies as responsible
   and reliable public institutions. The objectives of a COOP plan
   include: Ensuring the continuous performance of an agency's essential
   functions/operations during an emergency Protecting essential
   facilities, equipment, records, and other assets, Reducing or
   mitigating disruptions to operations, Reducing loss of life and
   minimizing damage and losses, and Achieving a timely and orderly
   recovery from an emergency and resumption of full service to customers.
   The objectives of a site-specific COOP are to: Ensure the safety of
   [Insert agency name] employees during an emergency Reduce disruptions
   to operations Protect essential equipment, records, and other assets
   Minimize damage and losses Provide organizational and operational
   stability Facilitate decision-making during an emergency Achieve an
   orderly recovery from emergency operations Mitigate risks 6 List your
   Core Business Units and Functions: Table 6.1 Core Business Units
   (SAMPLE: MULTIPLE BUSINESS UNITS) Core Business Units Core business
   functions by Business Unit Financial 1. Payroll 2. Accounts Receivable
   3. Accounts Payable Civil Rights 1. Plan, develop, coordinate and
   implement GSA's Civil Rights Program 2. Plan, develop and administer
   GSA's Nondiscrimination in Federal Assistance Program 3. Plan, develop
   and administer GSA's Race Initiative as related to the President's
   Initiative on Race 4. Plan, develop and administer GSA's Equal
   Employment Opportunity Complaint Adjudication Program Building
   Operations 1. Maintenance 2. Protection of Federally owned or operated
   buildings 3. Construction, alterations, repairs 4. Space Acquisition 5.
   Public utility services 6. Excess real property Emergency Management
   Human Resources Legal Information Infrastructure Federal Technology
   Service 7 An example description of business units, functions and
   operations for a department is in the table below. Table 6.1.1
   Emergency Management Branch (SAMPLE: SINGLE DEPARTMENT, MULTIPLE
   FUNCTIONS WITHIN DEPARTMENT) Business Units/Functions Operations
   Administrative 1. Provide executive leadership for GSA, Central Office
   and the regions in all emergency management related activities. 2.
   Submit the GSA emergency planning budget and monitor its expenditures
   3. Seek legislative changes to enhance our program. 4. Coordinate
   emergency planning and implementation with personnel and document
   security offices. National Security Program 1. Assist in reconstituting
   the government and GSA in the event of a national security emergency
   (COG) 2. Participate in the development of national emergency plans. 3.
   Coordinate the development of COOP plans GSA- wide and external
   agencies 4. Coordinate GSA response efforts (primarily policy
   coordination) internally and with other agencies. 5. Manages the
   National Defense Executive Reserves Program Domestic Program 1. Assist
   regional support of emergency activities when workload exceeds the
   region's capability. 2. Monitor and report on Central Office and
   regional emergency response efforts. 3. Coordinate GSA response efforts
   (primarily policy coordination) internally and externally. 4. Assure
   the capability of GSA to respond to its own emergency needs especially
   when GSA personnel or facilities are effected. Telecommunications 1.
   Develop and provide GSA-wide policy guidance effecting internal
   emergency telecommunications activities. 2. Represents GSA at NCS
   functions and training programs. 8 3. Coordinate and develop policy to
   support the Non - wartime Telecommunications Plan. Training and
   Exercises 1. Participate in exercises with States, local government,
   federal departments and agencies. 2. Develops training for RECs. NEMT,
   NDER, ERT-N, ERT-A or any other organization within GSA that supports
   the mission. 3. Provides COOP training to internal and external
   agencies Operational Programs 1. Coordinate emergency management
   workshops. 2. Coordinate special event activities GSA-wide i.e. NATO.
   3. Manages the classified program. 4. Manages the ADP Plan. 5.
   Coordinates the contracting and procurement activities. 9 7.0
   ASSUMPTIONS The following assumptions are basic, however the
   specialized requirements of your organization may require additional
   assumptions. The test for a planning assumption is: will the plan fail
   if the assumption is not true? This COOP is based on the following
   assumptions: Emergencies or threatened emergencies may adversely affect
   [Insert agency name] ability to continue to support essential internal
   operations and to provide support to the operations of clients and
   external agencies. Personnel and other resources from [Insert agency
   name] and other organizations outside of the area affected by the
   emergency or threat will be made available if required to continue
   essential operations. Emergencies and threatened emergencies differ in
   order of priority or impact. Vulnerability The vulnerability of the
   agency or business unit to an emergency, hazard or threat is based on
   the combination of the probability of an event occurring and the impact
   the event would have on operations. The table below represents an
   assessment of the risks related to a variety of threats and the
   resultant vulnerability of the organization to the hazard or threat. 10
   Table 7.1 Threat and Vulnerability Assessment Hazard/Threat Probability
   Impact Vulnerability L M H L M H L M H Air Conditioning Failure Bomb
   Threat Civil Disturbance Communication Interruption Curiosity
   Earthquake Explosion External Sabotage Fire Flooding Fraud HazMat
   Release Health Hazard/Disease Hurricane, Tornado, Windstorm
   Incompetence Industrial Accident Internal Sabotage Mischief Network
   Disruption NBC Attack Power Failure/Interruption Severe Storm Sewer
   Failure Snow & Ice Steam Failure Strike Terrorism, Weapon of Mass
   Destruction 11 Destruction Theft of Assets Theft of Information Tsunami
   Volcano Water Failure 12 8.0 DEFINITIONS Insert any other definitions
   that are essential to understanding your COOP. a. After-Action Report
   (AAR). A narrative report that presents issues found during an incident
   and recommendations on how those issues can be resolved. b. Alternate
   Database/Records Access. The safekeeping of vital resources,
   facilities, and records, and the ability to access such resources in
   the event that the COOP plan is put into effect. c. Alternate
   Facilities. An alternate work site that provides the capability to
   perform minimum essential department or agency functions until normal
   operations can be resumed. d. Cold Site. A relocation site that is
   reserved for emergency use, but which requires the installation of
   equipment, etc., before it can support operation. e. Continuity of
   Government (COG). The term COG applies to the measures taken by the
   Government to continue to perform required functions during and after a
   severe emergency. COG is a coordinated effort within each branch of the
   government to continue its minimum essential responsibilities in a
   catastrophic emergency. f. Continuity of Operations (COOP). An internal
   effort within individual components of the Executive, Legislative and
   Judicial branches of government to assure the capability exists to
   continue essential component functions across a wide range of potential
   emergencies, including localized acts of nature, accidents, and
   technological and/or attack-related emergencies. g. Designated
   Official. The highest-ranking official of the primary occupant agency
   or a designee selected by mutual agreement of occupant agency
   officials. h. Emergency. A sudden, usually unexpected event that does
   or could do harm to people, resources, property, or the environment.
   Emergencies can range from localized events that affect a single office
   in a building, to human, natural or technological events that damage,
   or threaten to damage, local operations. An emergency could cause the
   temporary evacuation of personnel or the permanent displacement of
   personnel and equipment from the site to a new operating location
   environment. i. Essential Functions. Those functions, stated or
   implied, that are required to be performed by statute or Executive
   Order, to provide vital services, exercise civil authority, maintain
   the safety and well being of the general populace, and sustain the
   industrial and economical base in an emergency, or other functions
   deemed essential by the heads of principal organizational elements. 13
   j. Essential Operations. Those operations, stated or implied, that are
   required to be performed by statute or Executive Order, or other
   operations deemed essential by the heads of principal organizational
   elements. k. Essential Positions. Those positions, stated or implied,
   that are required to be filled by statute, Executive Order or other
   positions deemed essential by the heads of principal organizational
   elements. l. Fly-Away Kit. An easily transported set of materials,
   technology and vital records that will be required to establish and
   maintain minimum essential operations. m. Hot Site. A relocation site
   available for immediate occupancy that is equipped to permit rapid
   resumption of essential functions. n. Hot Wash. An information activity
   that takes place after disaster response or an exercise simulating a
   disaster. Its purpose is to identify problems and possible solutions
   for improving future responses. Observation and recommendations are
   used to develop "Lesson-Learned Report". o. Internet. Worldwide
   interconnection of computers, typically interconnected using the TCP/IP
   protocol. Access to the Internet is normally through service providers
   and available to the general public. p. Interoperable Communications.
   Alternate communications that provides the capability to perform
   minimum essential department or agency functions, in conjunction with
   other agencies, until normal operations can be resumed. q. Intranet. A
   privately operated internal computer network that is used to publish
   information, implement human resource or other business applications
   within a company or organization. Intranets normally provide services
   to employees and other individuals within a company or organization. r.
   Logistics Team. A working group responsible for coordinating the
   activities associated with relocation planning and deployment of
   essential operations and positions during a COOP event. s. Management
   Plan. An operational guide that ensures the implementation, maintenance
   and continued viability of the COOP. t. Plan Maintenance. Steps taken
   to ensure the plan is reviewed annually and updated whenever major
   changes occur. u. Primary Facility. The site of normal, day-to-day
   operations; the location where the employee usually goes to work. v.
   Relocation Site. The site where all or designated employees will report
   for work if required to move from the primary facility. w. Situation
   Report (SITREP). A written, formatted report that provides a picture of
   the response activities during a designated reporting period. 14 x.
   Training and Exercise. This activity includes: 1) efforts to
   educate/advise designated staff on COOP responsibilities, and on the
   existing plans; and 2) tests to demonstrate the viability and
   interoperability of all plans supporting COOP requirement y. Vital
   Records & Systems. Records necessary to maintain the continuity of
   operations during an emergency, to recover full operations following an
   emergency, and to protect the legal rights and interests of citizens
   and the Government. The two basis categories of vital records are
   emergency operating records and rights and interests records. 15 9.0
   RESPONSIBILITIES, DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY AND SUCCESSION PLANNING An
   example of information that may be included in this section follows;
   however, your responsibilities must be tailored to meet your unique
   needs. The purpose of this section is to identify individuals and their
   responsibilities in the event of an emergency. The following SAMPLES
   identify responsibilities of key and designated officials required to
   implement GSA's agency-wide COOP. The GSA Administrator/Deputy
   Administrator is responsible for: Serving as the Leader for the Central
   Office COOP Team. Directing the GSA Emergency Coordinator in developing
   and activating the GSA National COOP Developing a COOP multi-year
   strategy and Program Management Plan Appointing an agency COOP program
   point of contact (POC) Planning for its own COOP at headquarters and in
   all subordinate elements Identifying agency essential functions
   Maintaining the agency COOP to include rostering and training/exercise
   of COOP personnel, notification and relocation procedures Testing alert
   and notification system procedures Maintaining alternate or shared
   facilities in a readiness status Ensuring the pre-positioning of
   essential data/records including classified or sensitive equipment and
   records Ensuring the availability of reliable and interoperable
   telecommunications and information processing equipment Notifying the
   Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Operations Center (FOC) and
   other appropriate agencies when the relocation occurs Participating in
   periodic interagency COOP exercises to ensure effective interagency
   coordination and mutual support Ensuring intra-agency COOP efforts are
   coordinated with related Critical Infrastructure Protection (CIP)
   activities under PDD-63. The GSA National Emergency Coordinator is
   responsible for: Providing advice and assistance to other Emergency
   Coordinators and personnel in the development of Service, office, or
   site-specific COOPs Assisting in the development, conduct and
   evaluation of COOP exercises for GSA Coordinate the development of the
   GSA-wide COOP Serving as the emergency coordinator for the building 16
   Assessing the severity of the event in an emergency The GSA Regional
   Administrator/Designated Official is responsible for: Developing, or
   coordinating the development of, COOPs for their Service, office or
   site Directing and supporting the Designated Official/Regional
   Emergency Coordinator in developing and maintaining individual
   operating site COOPs for the individual operating sites. COOP
   Designated Official/The Regional Emergency Coordinator (REC) is
   responsible for: Assuming the responsibility, as appropriate and
   directed, for coordinating the development and maintenance of
   site-specific COOPs. Providing advice and assistance to other Emergency
   Coordinators and personnel in the development of Service, office, or
   site-specific COOPs. Assisting in the development, conduct, and
   evaluation of COOP exercises for their and subordinate organizations.
   Providing advice, assistance, and training, as appropriate, in COOP
   procedures and continually evaluate the effectiveness of the program.
   Participating in Federal, State and local emergency response
   organizations and develop a working relationship compatible with COOP
   activities and plans. Coordinating GSA COOPs as appropriate with the
   emergency plans and procedures of other site tenants and entities
   likely to be affected by COOP execution. The Occupant Emergency Plan
   (OEP) Designated Official is responsible for: Providing advice and
   assistance to Emergency Coordinators and COOP planners in the
   development of their COOPs to ensure coordination with the OEP. The
   Chief Information Officer (CIO) is responsible for: Ensuring that all
   vital records and systems are routinely backed up, and maintained at a
   secured off-site facility. Protection and recovery, to the extent
   possible, of mission critical, non-electronic files will be the
   responsibility of each organization. Evaluating and determining the
   location of these facilities, and the means of accessing these files,
   are included in the essential operations section of this plan. 17 The
   GSA Building Manager is responsible for: Providing the GSA National
   Emergency Coordinator with event specific information including a
   preliminary impact analysis, suggested occupancy or use and any
   implications to operations, Coordinate facility access for emergency
   responders (fire, police, etc.), and Notify designated individuals from
   event effected departments to facilitate general employee contact.
   DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY. To ensure rapid response to any emergency
   situation requiring COOP plan implementation, agencies should
   pre-delegate authorities for making policy determinations and decisions
   at headquarters, regional levels, field offices and other
   organizational locations, as appropriate. These delegations of
   authority should: (1) Identify the programs and administrative
   authorities needed for effective operations at all organizational
   levels having emergency responsibilities; (2) Identify the
   circumstances under which the authorities would be exercised; (3)
   Document the necessary authorities at all points where emergency
   actions may be required, delineating the limits of authority and
   accountability; (4) State explicitly the authority of designated
   successors to exercise agency direction, including any exceptions, and
   the successor's authority to re- delegate functions and activities as
   appropriate; (5) Indicate the circumstances under which delegated
   authorities would become effective and when they would terminate.
   Generally, pre- determined delegations of authority would take effect
   when normal channels of direction are disrupted and would terminate
   when these channels have resumed; (6) Ensure that officials who may be
   expected to assume authorities in an emergency are trained to carry out
   their emergency duties; and, (7) Specify responsibilities and
   authorities of individual agency representatives designated to
   participate as members of interagency emergency response teams. ORDERS
   OF SUCCESSION. Agencies are responsible for establishing, promulgating,
   and maintaining orders of succession to key positions. Such orders of
   succession are an essential part of an agency's COOP plan. Orders
   should be of sufficient depth to ensure the agency's ability to perform
   essential functions while remaining a viable part of the Federal
   Government through any emergency. Geographical dispersion is
   encouraged, consistent with the principle of providing succession to
   office in emergencies of all types. Each agency should: 18 (1)
   Establish an order of succession to the position of Agency Head. A
   designated official serves as acting head of the agency until appointed
   by the President or relieved. Where a suitable field structure exists,
   appropriate personnel located outside the Washington, D.C., area should
   be considered in the order of succession; (2) Establish orders of
   succession to other key headquarters leadership positions; (3)
   Establish, for agencies organized according to the standard Federal
   regional structure, an order of succession to the position of regional
   director or equivalent; (4) Identify any limitation of authority based
   on delegation of authority to others; (5) Describe orders of succession
   by positions or titles, rather than names of individuals; (6) Include
   the orders of succession in the vital records of the agency; (7) Revise
   orders of succession as necessary, and distribute revised versions
   promptly as changes occur; (8) Establish the rules and procedures
   designated officials are to follow when facing the issues of succession
   to office in emergency situations; (9) Include in succession procedures
   the conditions under which succession will take place; method of
   notification; and any temporal, geographical, or organizational
   limitations of authorities; (10) Assign successors, to the extent
   possible, among the emergency teams established to perform essential
   functions, to ensure that each team has an equitable share of duly
   constituted leadership; and, (11) Conduct orientation programs to
   prepare successors for their emergency duties. 19 Successor Plan and
   Delegation of Authority In the event of an emergency, the following
   successor plan will be executed. The designated successors will be
   given the authority to act on behalf of the person who they succeed as
   noted under "program responsibility". Table 9.1 Successor Plan (SAMPLE
   SUCCESSOR PLAN) Position Successor Program Condition Responsibility
   Associate Administrator Deputy Administrator Full All emergencies
   Deputy Administrator Emergency Coordinator Full If requested by DA or
   condition exists Deputy Administrator Deputy Administrator, Building
   When EC not Chicago Operations available 20 10.0 DISTRIBUTION An
   example of information that may be included in this section follows;
   however, your Distribution List must be tailored to meet your unique
   needs. The purpose of this section is to determine who needs copies of
   your COOP, both internal and external to your site, organization, other
   agencies and tenants and other emergency response organizations.
   General distribution of the basic COOP plan should be issued to all
   employees so that everyone is familiar with the plan. Distribution of
   the entire plan, which may contain classified or sensitive information
   should be restricted to essential personnel governed by a need-to-know.
   Primary Distribution List (Sample) Secretary/Administrator Assistant
   Secretary/Deputy Administrator Emergency Coordinator All Designated
   Essential Personnel Alternate Facilities Identify the methods to be
   used for distribution of COOP Plans to the primary distribution list.
   Secondary Distribution List (Sample) Successors, Backup Regions or
   Field locations, and Backup Organizations (for backup purposed in the
   event the Region COOP team is inoperable) Other agencies and vendors
   Region field locations Identify the methods to be used for distribution
   of COOP Plans to the secondary distribution list. General Distribution
   21 To assure a high level of readiness by all employees, a digested or
   unclassified version of the COOP should be made available. Distribution
   methods may be a combination of the agency Intranet, instructional
   letters, employee bulletins, or other internal agency memoranda. All
   COOP plans are considered internal decisional documents with national
   and domestic security protections afforded under applicable U.S.
   statutes. Additionally, due to the inclusion of personal information
   about [Insert agency name] employees, COOP plans shall be protected by
   the Freedom of Information Act. 22 11.0 SITE VULNERABILITY ANALYSIS
   Hazard & Threat vulnerability assessments should consider primary and
   secondary risks that may occur at a given site. The Federal Protective
   Service (FPS) has the responsibility for conducting Site Vulnerability
   Analysis on all government owned or leased facilities under the control
   of GSA. Agencies and organizations should contact the FPS for the
   completed report. In some cases, an agency or business unit may
   designate or authorize an outside organization to conduct their Site
   Vulnerability Assessment. Consider emergencies that could occur within
   your facility and emergencies that could occur in your community.
   Hazard or threat identification and vulnerability assessment combine
   probabilities of event occurrence (earthquake, hurricane, terrorism,
   etc.) with factors relevant to the specific site (location,
   operational, and structural characteristics) to determine the risk of a
   given threat at a site. Secondary hazards and threats Hazards and
   threats may be from a secondary source. Neighboring offices or
   facilities may house materials or perform operations that generate
   hazards or threats for your operation. While you have no direct control
   over that type of hazard or threat, your site vulnerability may be
   higher. Physical Security A Site Vulnerability Analysis typically
   considers problems relating to the location of the facility in
   question. The Vulnerability Analysis may reference the risk of
   demonstrations, acts of terrorism and crime rates in the immediate
   area. In addition, the analysis may discuss the current protection
   methods used such as camera systems, guards and access control systems.
   Physical security design and assessment should consider both
   mechanical, electronic and computer issues in addition to the building,
   agency, function or location-related threats and hazards. Topics
   ranging from locking systems and updated standards to sensors,
   screening and detection equipment and digital technology should be
   included in the Vulnerability Analysis. 23 Use the following
   Vulnerability Analysis Charts to guide you in your review of primary
   and secondary threats and both primary and alternate locations. Table
   11.1 Vulnerability Analysis Chart, Primary Hazards and Threats, at
   Primary Location Hazard/Threat Probability Impact Vulnerability L M H L
   M H L M H Hurricane, Tornado, Windstorm Terrorism/Weapons of Mass
   Destruction HAZMAT release Crime Transportation accidents Bomb (threat)
   Flooding Fire/Wildfire Power failure/interruption Civil disturbance
   Health hazard/disease Communication interruption Earthquake Volcano
   Tsunami 24 Table 11.2 Vulnerability Analysis Chart, Secondary Hazards
   and Threats, at Primary Location Hazard/Threat Probability Impact
   Vulnerability L M H L M H L M H Prohibited access to the facility Smoke
   damage Hazards or threats to adjacent offices or facilities Structural
   damage Communications lines down Loss of electrical power & blackouts
   Water damage Ruptured gas main Air or water contamination Explosion
   Building collapse Trapped persons Chemical release 25 Table 11.3
   Vulnerability Analysis Chart, Primary Hazards and Threats, at Alternate
   Facility Hazard/Threat Probability Impact Vulnerability L M H L M H L M
   H Hurricane, Tornado, Windstorm Terrorism/Weapons of Mass Destruction
   HAZMAT release Crime Transportation accidents Bomb (threat) Flooding
   Fire/Wildfire Power failure/interruption Civil disturbance Health
   hazard/disease Communication interruption Earthquake Volcano Tsunami 26
   Table 11.4 Vulnerability Analysis Chart, Secondary Hazards and Threats,
   at Alternate Facility Hazard/Threat Probability Impact Vulnerability L
   M H L M H L M H Prohibited access to the facility Smoke damage Hazards
   or threats to adjacent offices or facilities Structural damage
   Communications lines down Loss of electrical power & blackouts Water
   damage Ruptured gas main Air or water contamination Explosion Building
   collapse Trapped persons Chemical release 27 12.0 IMPLEMENTATION This
   COOP will be implemented based on both known and unanticipated threats
   and emergencies. Known threats and emergencies (with warning): There
   are some threats to operations that may afford advance warning that
   will permit the orderly alert, notification, evacuation, and if
   necessary, the relocation of employees. Situations that might provide
   such warning include a hurricane, a transportation accident resulting
   in a threat of a release of Hazardous Material (HAZMAT) or a threat of
   a terrorist incident. Unanticipated threats and emergencies (no
   warning): During Non-Duty Hours: Incidents may not be preceded by
   warning, e.g., earthquakes, arson, HAZMAT, or terrorist incidents, or
   may occur while the majority of on-site staff are not at work. In these
   circumstances, while our operations from home site may be impossible,
   the majority of our employees will still be able to respond to
   instructions, including the requirement to relocate following proper
   notification. During Duty Hours: Incidents may also occur with no
   warning during normal office hours. In these circumstances, execution
   of the COOP, if indicated by the circumstances of the event, would
   begin by execution of the site's Occupancy Emergency Plan (OEP) to move
   employees out of the building expeditiously. Widespread versus
   Localized Emergencies The distinction between a widespread versus a
   localized event is based on an assessment of the impact of an event on
   a department, business unit or facility operations. Normally, if an
   event impacts a significant number of employees or could force the
   relocation of a significant number of employees, the event is
   considered widespread. Localized events are usually limited to smaller
   or isolated areas of a facility, such as a department or business unit.
   In either case, it is required to account for the location of all
   employees. Widespread and Localized events Implementation plans should
   incorporate a time-phased analysis to assure efficient use of resources
   under the following conditions: 28 A sudden emergency, such as an
   explosion, fire, or hazardous materials incident, may require the
   evacuation of an agency building with little or no advanced notice. A
   COOP plan is not an evacuation plan; rather, it is a deliberate and
   preplanned movement of selected key principals and supporting staff to
   a relocation facility. Relocation may be required to accommodate a
   variety of emergency scenarios. Examples include scenarios in which: An
   agency headquarters is unavailable and operations can shift to a
   regional or field location; A single agency facility is temporarily
   unavailable and the agency can share one of its own facilities or that
   of another agency; and, Many, if not all, agencies must evacuate the
   immediate Washington, D.C., area. While any of these scenarios involves
   unavailability of a facility, the distinction must be made between a
   situation requiring evacuation only and one dictating the need to
   implement COOP plans. A COOP plan includes the deliberate and
   pre-planned movement of selected key principals and supporting staff to
   a relocation facility. As an example, a sudden emergency, such as a
   fire or hazardous materials incident, may require the evacuation of an
   agency building with little or no advanced notice, but for only a short
   duration. Alternatively, an emergency so severe that an agency facility
   is rendered unusable and likely will be for a period long enough to
   significantly impact normal operations, may require COOP plan
   implementation. Agencies should develop an executive decision process
   that would allow for a review of the emergency and determination of the
   best course of action for response and recovery. This will preclude
   premature or inappropriate activation of an agency COOP plan. Localized
   emergency In the event of a localized emergency, each GSA Element,
   business function, or organization will be responsible for implementing
   their COOP plans. Implementation Activities for Localized Emergencies
   A. Phase I  Activation and Relocation (0-12 Hours) Each GSA Element
   will notify the appropriate department personnel. Activate the
   Logistics team to coordinate any relocation requirements. Each GSA
   Element will notify the GSA EC of the event and proposed actions
   Instruct all other emergency and non-emergency personnel on what they
   are to do. 29 Within 12 hours, essential personnel or COOP team members
   will assemble and conduct minimum essential operations. B. Phase II
   Alternate Facility Operations (12 Hours  Termination) Continue
   essential operations. The appropriate GSA Element(s) will track all
   personnel during the emergency. Each GSA Element will develop a funding
   request, to support an emergency appropriation, based on the actual
   event if appropriate. C. Phase III - Reconstitution (Termination and
   Return to Normal Operations) Continue minimum essential operations.
   Each GSA Element will develop plans and schedules to phase down
   alternate facility(ies) operations and return activities, personnel,
   records, and equipment to the primary facility when appropriate. Each
   GSA Element will inform all personnel, including non-emergency
   personnel, that the threat of or actual emergency no longer exists, and
   provide instructions for resumption of normal operations. Each GSA
   Element will conduct a "hot wash" of COOP operations and effectiveness
   of plans and procedures as soon as possible, identify areas for
   correction, and develop a remedial action plan. Implementation
   Activities for Widespread Emergencies A. Phase I  Activation and
   Relocation (0-12 Hours) The Administrator or Deputy Administrator will
   notify initial COOP team of impending activation. The GSA EC will
   notify the Federal Emergency Management Agency Operations Center (FOC)
   and other appropriate agencies of the decision to relocate. Activate
   the Logistics team to coordinate any relocation requirements. Instruct
   all other emergency and non-emergency personnel on what they are to do.
   Within 12 hours, individuals specified within there GSA Element's COOP
   will assemble at the pre-selected COOP alternate facility. Each GSA
   Element will conduct minimum essential operations at the COOP alternate
   facility. Emergency Management Office will begin preparations for
   occupying alternate facility as defined by minimum essential operations
   as identified in Section 13.0. 30 Emergency Management Office will
   coordinate the activation of plans, procedures, SOPs and schedules to
   transfer activities, personnel, records, and equipment to alternate
   operating facility(ies). Emergency Management Office will coordinate
   the assembly of necessary documents and equipment required to continue
   performance of essential operations at alternate operating
   facility(ies). Emergency Management Office will coordinate the
   transportation of documents and designated communications, automated
   data processing, and other equipment to the alternate operating
   facility(ies), if applicable. Emergency Management Office will
   coordinate the securing of the normal operating facility physical plant
   and non-moveable equipment and records, to the extent possible. All GSA
   Elements will continue essential operations at the normal operating
   facility if available, until alternate facility(ies) is operational. B.
   Phase II  Alternate Facility Operations (12 Hours  Termination)
   Emergency Management Office will provide amplifying guidance to other
   GSA Elements through directives or SOPs. The appropriate GSA Element(s)
   will initiate tracking system of all personnel during the emergency.
   Each GSA Element will identify replacements for missing personnel and
   request augmentation as necessary. Each GSA Element will fully
   implement minimum essential operations. Each GSA Element will continue
   minimum essential operations. Emergency Management Office determine
   need of temporary (permanent) relocation site, additional operations
   and functions as required. The appropriate GSA office will develop a
   funding request, to support an emergency appropriation, based on the
   actual event. The COOP Team will develop plans and schedules to phase
   down alternate facility(ies) operations and return activities,
   personnel, records, and equipment to the primary facility when
   appropriate. 31 C. Phase III - Reconstitution (Termination and Return
   to Normal Operations) Each GSA Element will inform all personnel,
   including non-emergency personnel, that the threat of or actual
   emergency no longer exists, and provide instructions for resumption of
   normal operations. The GSA Element and the COOP Team will supervise an
   orderly return to the normal operating facility, or movement to other
   temporary or permanent facility(ies) using a phased approach if
   conditions necessitate. Emergency Management Office will report status
   of relocation to the FOC and other agency points of contact (POC), if
   applicable. Emergency Management Office will conduct a "hot wash" of
   COOP operations and effectiveness of plans and procedures as soon as
   possible, identifies areas for correction, and develops a remedial
   action plan. 32 Table 12.1 Pre-Emergency Checklist (SAMPLE) CONTINUITY
   OF OPERATIONS PLAN PRE-EMERGENCY CHECKLIST Action Items Completed By
   Date and Time Alert/Notification 1. COOP Team 2. Logistics Team 3.
   Essential personnel, non-emergency personnel 4. Appropriate agencies.
   5. Primary Backup Region/Secondary Backup Region 6.
   Communications/Media Activation 1. Implement Activation Procedures in
   Time Phase sequence 2. Activate Logistics Team Deployment 1. Deploy and
   Assemble at pre-selected COOP facility or Relocation Site 2. Deploy
   with Fly-away Kits Operations 1. Within 12 hours begin minimum
   essential operations 2. Fully implement minimum essential operations 3.
   Continue essential operations 4. Determine if additional operations or
   functions are required to include personnel 5. Develop a funding
   request to support the emergency if required. 6. Appropriate business
   unit(s) to initiate personnel tracking system during the emergency.
   Phase Down 1. Continue essential functions at alternate facility or
   until normal operating facility is available Begin transferring
   business units and functions to normal operating facility 2. Return
   activities personnel, records and equipment to the primary facility
   when appropriate. 3. Inform non emergency personnel that the threat no
   longer exists and instructions for resumption of normal operations 4.
   Conduct a "hot wash" of COOP operations and 33 effectiveness of plans
   and procedures identified corrective action and develop an action plan.
   34 Deployment Planning When a COOP event has been declared, gathering
   the necessary items to support an extended stay may be difficult. To
   satisfy the organization's recovery objectives, the "miscellaneous" or
   secondary items that can be frequently overlooked become important.
   Unlike planning for a casual trip, activities related to an emergency
   event are usually stress driven and frequently rushed. As part of the
   planning process, it is suggested that pre-planning and possible
   pre-positioning of items be considered. The items selected will support
   the business requirements of the organization and personnel needs for
   an event that could demand relocation or isolation for an extended
   period of time. The Deployment Worksheet is designed to assist in the
   planning process to reduce the impact of a COOP event on both the
   business and the individual. Items on the worksheet could include
   clothing, food, medication, first aid supplies, the Fly-Away kit, cash,
   etc. that are considered necessary to support a deployment of 30 days
   or more. SAMPLE Table 12.2 Deployment Worksheet CONTINUITY OF
   OPERATIONS PLAN DEPLOYMENT WORKSHEET Item Status Storage location
   Personal 1. Hygiene 2. Medication, prescriptions 3. Immunization
   information 4. Clothing 5. Telephone contact list 6. Transportation 7.
   Cash/credit cards 8. Communications 9. ID (drivers license,
   organization, etc) 10. Facility access information 11. Mail, newspaper
   12. Lighting 13. Security system 14. Plants, animals 15. Legal/power of
   attorney 35 Personnel/Staff 1. Bedding, sleeping bags 2. Telephones 3.
   Extra disks 4. Facility access information 5. Water 6. Soap 7. Hygiene
   supplies 8. First aid kit and book 9. Stamps 10. Light sticks 11.
   Gloves Organization 1. Fly-away kit 2. COOP 3. Telephone list 4.
   Directory of support organizations 5. Radio, battery 6. Mail
   handling/distribution Operations 1. Office supplies 2. Personnel
   contact information 3. Extension cords 4. Cooking equipment 5. Tools
   Other 36 13.0 Essential Operations, Functions and Positions Core
   business operations and functions are defined in the strategic and
   tactical planning process for your organization. Provide a brief
   listing of your key core business units and business functions in the
   table below. Refer to Section 6. Your organization's core functions may
   vary. SAMPLE Table 13.1 Core Business Units and Business Functions
   (reference Section 6) Core Business Units Business Functions Financial
   1. Payroll 2. Accounts Receivable 3. Accounts Payable Civil Rights 1.
   Plan, develop, coordinate and implement GSA's Civil Rights Program 2.
   Plan, develop and administer GSA's Nondiscrimination in Federal
   Assistance Program 3. Plan, develop and administer GSA's Race
   Initiative as related to the President's Initiative on Race 4. Plan,
   develop and administer GSA's Equal Employment Opportunity Complaint
   Adjudication Program Building Operations 1. Maintenance 2. Protection
   of Federally owned or operated buildings 3. Construction, alterations,
   repairs 4. Space Acquisition 5. Public utility services
