http://www.bettis.gov/faqs.html


   Three aircraft carriers steaming as a group and Link to Skip Navigation
                                   Links
   Bettis Laboratory
   Home
   Send Us Your Resume
   Career Opportunities
   Campus Interviews
   Summer Intern Program
   What We Do
   Why Choose Bettis
   About our Communities
   Diversity
   Employee Benefits
   FAQs

Frequently Asked Questions

     * What can you tell me about the locations of your facilities?
     * Are Bettis employees employed by the Federal government?
     * What growth opportunities are available at Bettis?
     * What learning opportunities are available at Bettis?

What can you tell me about the locations of your facilities?

   Our three locations are Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Idaho Falls, Idaho,
   and Charleston, South Carolina.

   Pittsburgh is a culturally diverse city that sits at the intersection
   of three rivers. Pittsburgh has affordable housing, superior medical
   facilities, cultural amenities, and renowned universities. Recreational
   activities include skiing, biking, water sports, and professional
   baseball, football and hockey.

   Idaho Falls caters to the outdoor enthusiast with an abundance of
   skiing, hiking, hunting, and fishing. The area boasts small-town charm,
   quality schools, and breathtaking landscape.

   Charleston offers an historic setting, warm weather, water sports,
   beaches, excellent universities, and southern hospitality.

                                Return to Top

Are Bettis employees employed by the Federal government?

   No, Bettis employees are employed by Bechtel Bettis, Inc. , a
   subsidiary of Bechtel National. The laboratory is operated for the
   Department of Energy by Bechtel Bettis Inc.

                                Return to Top

What growth opportunities are available at Bettis?

   Professional employees at Bettis have opportunities to transfer within
   the organization in order to gain a multidisciplinary perspective and
   to develop new skills. Also, there are opportunities to transfer to
   three other contractors that provide services to the Naval Nuclear
   Propulsion Program, one of which is also located in Pittsburgh,
   Pennsylvania. The other two are located in Schenectady, New York.

                                Return to Top

What learning opportunities are available at Bettis?

   Both formal and informal learning opportunities are abundant at Bettis.
   Employees may attend the Navy's Nuclear Power School in Charleston,
   South Carolina. The Bettis Reactor Engineering School in Pittsburgh
   provides a unique training program to bridge the gap between the
   broad-based training provided by universities and the specific training
   needed to understand the different technologies which form the basis
   for work in the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program. Bettis also sponsors
   workshops for professional and personal growth and provides tuition
   reimbursement for pursuit of an advanced degree program for employees
   continuing their education in specified fields to increase their
   effectiveness in their present jobs and to prepare for positions of
   greater responsibility in the Laboratory.

                                Return to Top

   All candidates must be U.S. citizens. Applicants selected will be
   subject to a Federal background investigation and must meet eligibility
   requirements for access to classified matter.

                        An Equal Opportunity Employer
