http://edworkforce.house.gov/press/press107/edaccomplish122001.htm

                  Committee on Education and the Workforce


               House Education & the Workforce Committee

                        John Boehner, Chairman
2181 Rayburn HOB · (202) 225-4527

                                                                                      FACT SHEET

               Education Accomplishments of the 107^th Congress

                                                        December 20, 2001

     Education has been President Bush’s top domestic policy priority and
     a focal point of the House Republican agenda during the first
     session of the 107th Congress. From enactment of the President
     Bush’s No Child Left Behind education reforms to improvements in
     America’s juvenile justice system, President Bush and congressional
     Republicans are leading the drive to improve education and ensure
     that every child has the chance to learn and succeed.

     The following are some of the major education accomplishments of the
     107th Congress (January-December 2001):

     President Bush’s No Child Left Behind Education Reforms.
     The House on December 13th approved, by an overwhelming bipartisan
     vote of 381-41, the final version of President George W. Bush’s
     education reform legislation, the No Child Left Behind Act (H.R. 1).
     The most significant federal education reforms in a generation are
     now ready for President Bush’s signature. The measure is a
     comprehensive overhaul of the 1965 Elementary and Secondary
     Education Act emphasizing four the President’s four principles of
     reform: accountability, expanded options for parents, local control
     and flexibility, and funding for what works. Among the highlights:
     * Empowers parents, voters, and taxpayers with data about public
       schools - allowing “sunshine” into the public education system and
       increasing accountability for results.
     * Provides immediate new options for the parents of students in
       thousands of failing or dangerous schools across America, effective
       in 2002.
     * Streamlines the ESEA bureaucracy from 55 to 45 programs and
       requires that 95 percent of all federal funds reach the local
       level.
     * Gives all 50 states and every local school district new freedom and
       flexibility in the use of federal education dollars.
     * Focuses on effective, proven methods of reading instruction backed
       by scientific research.

     Education Funding - Tied to Education Reform.
     Following President Bush’s lead, Congress passed an education
     funding bill that allows for unprecedented state and local
     flexibility and provides the resources necessary for reform. The
     final FY 2002 Labor/HHS/Education appropriations bill provides $3.4
     billion increase for the President’s elementary and secondary
     education initiatives authorized in H.R.1. Some highlights are
     included below:
     * Title I - The education funding bill provides $10.35 billion for
       the Title I program, $1.6 billion more than the President’s budget
       request, to provide aid to states and school districts to help
       educationally disadvantaged children achieve the same high state
       academic performance standards as all other students.

     * Reading First - A top priority of the President that will enable
       states to eliminate the reading deficit through scientific
       research-based reading programs. The bill funds this new program at
       the requested level of $975 million that will enable states to
       eliminate the reading deficit through scientific research-based
       reading programs.

     * State Assessments - The bill includes $387 million, $67 million
       more than the budget request, to cover the cost of developing
       annual state assessments of student’s reading and math skills.
       States will be responsible for selecting and designing their own
       assessments.

     * State Grants for Improving Teacher Quality - The bill provides
       $2.85 billion, $250 million above the budget request, for a new
       program to consolidate existing professional development programs
       to provide states and school districts with tools to improve
       teacher quality and increase the number of highly qualified
       teachers in the classroom.

     * Troops and Transition to Teaching - The bill provides $88 million,
       $58 million more than the budget request -- which includes $18
       million for Troops to Teachers and $35 million for Transition to
       Teaching -- to help eligible members of the armed forces and mid
       career professionals obtain the certification as elementary and
       secondary school teachers, or vocational teachers.

     * Bilingual and Immigrant Education - This program has been
       dramatically reformed to focus on teaching English to limited
       English proficient children and expediting their transition into
       regular classrooms. The budget requested $460 million for this
       purpose; however, this bill provides $665 million in recognition of
       the growing number of limited English proficient children.

     Fixing and Funding Special Education.
     Laying the groundwork for the next major education reform project,
     House Republicans provided an historic increase in funding of $1.2
     billion for the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA),
     ensuring that the federal government is now paying a larger share
     (16.5 percent) of the cost of special education than at any other
     time since 1975. House Republicans on the Education and the
     Workforce Committee also joined Education Secretary Rod Paige in
     drawing attention to chronic problems in the current IDEA system
     that have caused countless children to be wrongly placed in special
     education classes, a problem that particularly affects minority
     children. House Republicans defeated a partisan effort by Senate
     Democrats and Sen. Jim Jeffords (I-VT) that would have indefinitely
     delayed reform of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act
     (IDEA) by turning special education into a new entitlement spending
     program.

     Coverdell Education Savings Accounts.
     The historic tax relief package signed into law by President Bush in
     June included expanded Education Savings Accounts (ESAs), championed
     by the late Sen. Paul Coverdell (R-GA), that allow parents to save
     up to $2,000 annually for their children’s K-12 education in special
     tax-free savings accounts. Similar to an education IRA, ESAs for
     K-12 education were vetoed by President Clinton but included in the
     No Child Left Behind plan and signed into law by President Bush on
     behalf of parents.

     Lowest Student Loan Interest Rate in History.
     On July 1, 2001, the student loan interest rate fell to its lowest
     level in history, making college more affordable for students across
     the nation and expanding access to higher education. 21st Century
     Competitiveness Subcommittee Chairman Howard “Buck” McKeon (R-CA)
     negotiated the rate cut formula, lowering the rate to 5.99 percent,
     as part of the 1998 Higher Education Act reauthorization. “It's just
     an incredible rate, and they just don’t get this low,” Leilani
     Gamboa-Marquez, associate director of financial aid at Chapman
     University in Orange, CA, told The Orange County Register (June 20,
     2001).

     Saluting America’s “HEROES.”
     In October, the House passed the Higher Education Relief
     Opportunities for Students (HEROES) Act (H.R. 3086) by a vote of
     415-0. The Senate passed its version (S. 1793) of the measure by
     unanimous consent on December 14; the House passed the S. 1793 by
     voice vote on December 19, paving the way for President Bush’s
     signature. The bill, authored by Rep. Howard P. “Buck” McKeon
     (R-CA), gives the Education Secretary the authority to grant waivers
     to military reservists who have been called up for active duty,
     relieving them from making federal student loan payments while they
     serve the nation’s Armed Forces. A similar authority was granted to
     the Education Secretary during the Persian Gulf War.

     Ensuring School Lunch Eligibility for Military Children.
     In December, the House passed a bill (H.R. 3216) introduced by Rep.
     Mike Castle (R-DE) that modifies the National School Lunch Act to
     ensure that children of military personnel don’t lose their
     eligibility for free or reduced-priced meals if their military
     housing is privatized. Because of an accounting quirk in current
     law, housing allowances for private housing could be considered
     income, jeopardizing military children’s school lunch eligibility.
     The bill ensures that these children will be able to continue
     participating in the school lunch program.

     Outreach to Historically Black Colleges and Hispanic-Serving
     Institutions.
     Building on the successful efforts of the GOP Task Force on
     Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs), Rep. Peter
     Hoekstra (R-MI) and other members of the Select Education
     subcommittee have reached out to HBCUs, Hispanic-Serving
     Institutions and other minority-serving schools, laying the
     groundwork for President Bush’s plans to boost aid to these key
     institutions. Successful field hearings have been held at Oklahoma’s
     Langston University and Ohio’s Wilberforce University and more are
     planned.

     FED.UP Higher Education Project.
     In May, Rep. “Buck” McKeon (R-CA) launched FED. UP project (short
     for “Upping the Effectiveness of Our Federal Student Aid Programs”),
     using the Internet to identify and simplify burdensome regulations
     in the Higher Education Act that work against college students and
     personnel. Interested parties were given until July 20 to fill out a
     form on the FED. UP website and provide recommendations for
     streamlining current regulations. The project received approximately
     3,000 responses from college officials, administrators, and other
     personnel who operate America’s institutions of higher learning,
     laying the groundwork for important reforms.

     Education Department Oversight and Reform.
     Oversight hearings by Select Education Subcommittee Chairman Pete
     Hoekstra (R-MI) this spring revealed that the U.S. Department of
     Education experienced at least $450 million in waste, fraud and
     abuse during the last three years of the Clinton Administration
     while failing three consecutive department-wide audits. Hoekstra and
     other House Republicans have pushed forcefully for accountability at
     the Department, and new Education Secretary Rod Paige has acted
     swiftly and decisively to develop guidelines to combat the waste,
     fraud, and abuse that occurred under the previous administration. In
     October, Paige announced a comprehensive action plan for putting the
     U.S. Department of Education’s management and financial house in
     order based on more than 600 separate recommendations.

     Internet Equity and Education Act.
     In October, the House approved the bipartisan Internet Equity and
     Education Act (H.R. 1992), legislation authored by Rep. Johnny
     Isakson (R-GA) that expands Internet-based and non-standard term
     educational opportunities for postsecondary students, while
     maintaining the integrity of the federal student aid programs. The
     measure, which was passed by a vote of 354-70, will allow all
     learners to take full advantage of what the newest technologies can
     provide for their education.

     Juvenile Justice.
     In September, the House passed by voice vote the Juvenile Crime
     Control and Delinquency Prevention Act (H.R. 1900), bipartisan
     legislation introduced by Rep. Jim Greenwood (R-PA) to improve the
     juvenile justice system and give maximum flexibility to states and
     communities in reducing juvenile crime. The bill consolidates five
     federal juvenile justice programs into one Prevention Block Grant.

     OERI Reform.
     Education Reform Subcommittee Chairman Michael Castle (R-DE) has led
     efforts to emphasize scientifically-based education research and
     reform the U.S. Department of Education’s Office of Education
     Research and Improvement (OERI) as part of President Bush’s effort
     to ensure that federal education programs produce results. Castle’s
     subcommittee held a hearing July 17th to pave the way for
     legislative action building on the landmark reforms in H.R. 1.

     Honoring Catholic Schools.
     In February, the House passed H. Res. 28, a resolution authored by
     Rep. Bob Schaffer (R-CO) to recognize and honor the contributions of
     Catholic schools. For the 1999-2000 academic year, Catholic schools
     enrolled over 2.6 million children in over 8,000 Catholic schools
     across the country. The student-teacher ratio is 17 to 1.

     Promoting Charter Schools.
     On May 1st, the House approved a resolution introduced by Rep. Tom
     Tancredo (R-CO) supporting National Charter Schools Week and
     congratulating parents and educators across the country for their
     hard work on behalf of the charter schools movement. H. Con. Res. 95
     passed by a bipartisan vote of 404-6. H.R. 1, the President’s
     education plan, includes key provisions to promote and support
     innovative charter schools across the nation.

     Character Education.
     In September, the House approved by voice vote H.Con.Res. 204, a
     resolution authored by Rep. Lamar Smith (R-TX) to encourage the
     establishment of a National Character Counts Week. In a time when
     parents must worry about their children receiving conflicting
     messages from popular culture, as well as the threat of school
     violence, the resolution would help focus the attention of schools,
     parents, and children, on the need to foster basic values like
     honesty, discipline, and concern for community.
