http://www-ne.cr.usgs.gov/cp_poster/cp_poster.html

   USGS

   [bd15035_.gif]

Areas of Gain and Loss Along the Platte River, Central Nebraska, Spring 1999

   by Jennifer S. Stanton

   U.S. Geological Survey
   Water-Resources Investigations Report 00-4065
   Lincoln, Nebraska
   2000

   Prepared in cooperation with the Bureau of Reclamation and U.S. Fish
   and Wildlife Service

   [bd15035_.gif]

   [arrow_red.gif] Note: This text has been modified from text found in
   published report

   [bd15035_.gif]

   INTRODUCTION
   In an effort to protect endangered and other wildlife species, the
   governors of Nebraska, Colorado, and Wyoming, and the Secretary of the
   U.S. Department of the Interior signed an agreement in 1997 (Platte
   River Endangered Species Partnership, 1997) to initiate the development
   of a basin-wide habitat recovery program for the central reaches of the
   Platte River in Nebraska. This agreement recognizes the need to
   maintain minimal flows in the central reaches of the Platte River. An
   understanding of the surface-water and ground-water interaction along
   the central reaches of the Platte River is critical to deliver water to
   the targeted habitat areas. Therefore, a study by the U.S. Geological
   Survey (USGS), in cooperation with the Bureau of Reclamation and U.S.
   Fish and Wildlife Service, was conducted to determine qualitatively the
   areas of gain and loss along the central Platte River between
   Gothenburg and Silver Creek, Nebraska (figure 1). The purpose of this
   report is to present the results of the study.
   APPROACH
   Central Platte and Tri-Basin Natural Resources District (NRD) personnel
   measured water levels in 259 irrigation and observation wells between
   the middle of April and the beginning of May 1999. Between May 25 and
   27, 1999, USGS personnel measured surface-water levels at 35 locations
   along the Platte River and ground-water levels in 77 irrigation wells.
   All water levels were measured in the central Platte River area, which
   includes parts of Adams, Buffalo, Dawson, Gosper, Hall, Hamilton,
   Kearney, Merrick, Phelps, and Polk Counties in Nebraska (figure 1).
   Water levels were measured when little widespread rainfall had occurred
   and river discharge was believed to be affected minimally by upstream
   rain events. Because the water table is relatively flat in this part of
   the Platte River Valley, high streamflow events may reverse the
   gradient between surface water and ground water that is present during
   base-flow conditions. The measurements also were made during the spring
   when pumping and evapotranspiration were considered minimal.
   At the 371 surface-water and ground-water sites, Nebraska Natural
   Resources Commission personnel used differential Global Positioning
   System (GPS) surveying to determine the site locations and land-surface
   altitudes to the nearest 0.1 foot. All ground-water-level measurements
   from these sites were converted from depth below land surface to
   altitude above sea level and contoured using a 20-foot interval to
   create a generalized water-table configuration map (figure 1).
   Continuity of the water table from the river valley to beneath the
   adjacent uplands is uncertain. Therefore, water-table contours are
   estimated (shown as dashes) where they are outside the river valley.

   AREAS OF GAIN AND LOSS
   The water-table map shows that the central Platte River was not
   exclusively gaining or losing (figure 2) in spring 1999. Dashed arrows
   are drawn perpendicular to the water-table contours, indicating the
   direction of ground-water flow. Areas of gain were where the general
   direction of ground-water flow (dashed arrow) was toward the river, and
   areas of loss were where the general direction of ground-water flow
   (dashed arrow) was away from the river.
   In the western part of the study area, water-level contours showed that
   ground water was moving towards the Platte River. Because ground-water
   flow lines generally converged toward the Platte River in this part of
   the valley, the river was considered gaining. This condition is
   illustrated in hydrologic section A-A' (figure 3).
   East of Kearney, the ground-water flow was essentially parallel to the
   river in an area of neither gain nor loss. In Hall County is an area of
   loss where ground-water flow is slightly away from the river.
   Near Grand Island, water levels indicated that the river may have been
   slightly gaining from ground water on its north side and slightly
   losing to ground water on its south side. These conditions are
   illustrated in hydrologic sections B-B' and C-C' (figure 4 and figure
   5). However, without thorough investigation of the hydrogeology in this
   area, it is not certain that water levels measured in wells on the
   uplands south of the river represent a continuous extension of the
   water table from the Platte River Valley.
   In eastern Merrick County and Polk County, the direction of
   ground-water flow resumed a pattern similar to the western part of the
   study area and the river was again gaining from ground water.

   ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
   The author appreciates the assistance of the Central Platte and
   Tri-Basin NRDs for providing ground-water-level measurements. Special
   thanks are extended to the Nebraska Natural Resources Commission for
   sharing their expertise in and information from high-accuracy GPS
   methods. Appreciation also is extended to Sonja Sebree of the USGS for
   her help with Geographic Information Systems (GIS).
   REFERENCES
   Winter, T.C., Harvey, J.W., Franke, O.L., and Alley, W.M., 1998, Ground
   water and surface water--A single resource: U.S. Geological Survey
   Circular 1139, 79 p.
   Platte River Endangered Species Partnership, 1997, Cooperative
   agreement for Platte River research and other efforts relating to
   endangered species habitat along the central Platte River, Nebraska:
   accessed April 5, 2000, at URL
   http://www.platteriver.org/library/CA6.5.htm
   Sea level: In this report, the "sea level" datum for land-surface
   information refers to the National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929
   (NGVD of 1929)--a geodetic datum derived from a general adjustment of
   the first-order level nets of both the United States and Canada,
   formerly called the Sea Level Datum of 1929; the "sea level" datum for
   GPS-derived water-level information refers to the North American
   Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD of 1988)--a mathematical least squares
   general adjustment of the vertical control part of the National
   Geodetic Reference System.

   [bd15035_.gif]

  Contact the author:

   Jennifer S. Stanton works for the U.S. Geological Survey, Lincoln,
   Nebraska.
   [bd15035_.gif]

  This document is available in two forms:

  [poster_thumb.gif]   Page-size (8.5 by 11 inches, 447KB) JPEG, and

  [poster_thumb.gif]   Page-size PDF Version (4.8MB), which requires the Adobe A
crobat Reader  [getacro.gif]
 [bd15035_.gif]

   For more information, please contact:
             District Chief
             Room 406, Federal Building
             100 Centennial Mall North
             Lincoln, NE  68508
             Telephone: (402) 437-5082

   [bd15035_.gif]

     [bd21300_.gif]    return to the USGS Nebraska Home Page

   [bd15035_.gif]


    The URL for this homepage is:
    http://ne.water.usgs.gov/cp_poster/cp_poster.html
    If you have any questions, feel free to contact:
    Webmaster@ne20dnelnc.cr.usgs.gov
    This page was last updated on: September 6, 2000 sks
