http://web2.ncifcrf.gov/aboutus/disclaimer.asp

   National Cancer Institute at Frederick
   About Us Scientific Research Research Technology Program Scientific
   Research Resources Campus Information Career Opportunities
   NCI-Frederick Home NCI-Frederick Phone Book Search NCI-Frederick


   About NCI-Frederick
   Visitor Information
   Contact Information
   Administrative Offices & Services
   Contractors
   History of NCI-Frederick
   Privacy Information
   Disclaimer


Disclaimer

   Specific Disclaimer
       "The National Cancer Institute at Frederick (NCI-Frederick) makes
       no representation or warranty as to the accuracy or usefulness of
       the information provided through this website, including its
       safety, effectiveness, or viability.  NCI-Frederick disclaims all
       warranties regarding such information, including, but not limited
       to, all warranties expressed or implied of merchantability and
       fitness for any particular purpose.  NCI-Frederick further
       disclaims all obligations and liabilities for damages arising from
       the use or attempted use of the information, including but not
       limited to direct, indirect, special, and consequential damages,
       attorneys' and experts' fees and court costs.  Any use of the
       information will be at the risk of the user."

   Copyright Status
   Most of the information at this site is in the public domain.   Unless
       stated otherwise, documents and files on NCI-Frederick web servers
       can be freely downloaded and reproduced.  Most documents on this
       server are sponsored by NCI-Frederick; however, you may encounter
       documents that were sponsored along with private companies and
       other organizations.  Other parties may retain all rights to
       publish or reproduce these documents or to allow others to do so.
       Some documents available from this server may be protected under
       the U.S. and foreign copyright laws.  Permission to reproduce these
       documents may be required.

   Disclaimer of Endorsement

     * General: NCI-Frederick does not endorse or recommend any commercial
       products, processes, or services.  The views and opinions of
       authors expressed on NCI-Frederick websites do not necessarily
       state or reflect those of the U.S. Government, and they may not be
       used for advertising or product endorsement purposes.
     * External Links: Some NCI-Frederick sites may provide links to other
       Internet sites only for the convenience of World Wide Web users.
       NCI-Frederick is not responsible for the availability or content of
       these external sites, nor does NCI-Frederick endorse, warrant, or
       guarantee the products, services, or information described or
       offered at these other Internet sites.

   Disclaimer of Liability
   For documents available from this server, the U.S. Government does not
       warrant or assume any legal liability or responsibility for the
       accuracy, completeness, or usefulness or any information apparatus,
       product, or process disclosed.



   National Cancer Institute web site
   Top of Page | Home Page | Search | Privacy | Disclaimer
   About Us | Research | Research Technology Program | Resources | Campus
   | Careers

   Copyright © 2000 NCI. All rights reserved National Institute of Health
   web site
