http://www.nad.usda.gov/faqs.htm

   National Appeals Division
   Frequently Asked Questions Link to USDA Home Page Link to NAD Home Page
   Q.  Does NAD hear cases involving alleged discrimination by an agency
   against a program participant?

   A.
     NAD hears appeals only from adverse determinations issued by certain
   agencies in relation to administration of certain program.  Cases
   involving alleged discrimination by an agency or employee of USDA are
   the responsibility of the; Office of Civil Rights. 7 CFR 11.1

   Q.  The agency did not give me appeal rights. May I still file an
   appeal?

   A.
     Any adverse decision of an agency whose appeals are adjudicated by
   NAD may be  appealable, whether or not the agency provides appeal
   rights.  For assistance as to  whether an agency decision is
   appealable, contact the appropriate Regional Office. Be sure to include
   a copy of the agency determination and indicate when it was received.
   7 CFR 11.6(a)

   Q. May I select my own hearing officer?

   A.
     No.  Hearing officers are assigned appeals by the Director. 7 CFR
   11.8(b)(2)

   Q.  If I win my appeal, how soon does the agency have to implement the
   NAD determination?

   A.
     By law, the agency has 30 days from the date the appeal determination
   is final to implement  the NAD determination.  7 CFR 11.12(a)

   Q.  Can I get NAD to enforce its determination?

   A.
     NAD has no authority to enforce its determination.  The head of the
   agency is responsible  for implementing NAD determinations.  7 CFR
   11.12(a)

   Q.  What can I do if the agency refuses to implement the NAD
   determination?

   A.
     A NAD determination is enforceable in any United States District
   Court of competent  jurisdiction. 7 CFR 11.13

   Q.  I was denied food stamps.  May I appeal that adverse determination
   to NAD?

   A.
     No, the law gives NAD the authority to hear cases that arise only
   under the programs of certain agencies.  The Food Stamp Program is not
   administered by any of the agencies over whose programs NAD has been
   given this authority.  7 CFR 11.1

   Q.  I don’t agree with an agency regulation.  May I challenge it
   through NAD?

   A.
     No.  NAD cannot rule on the correctness of either regulations or
   laws.  Only agency  program determinations which adversely affect a
   participant are appealable to  NAD.   7 CFR 11.3

   Q.  May I tell the hearing officer my side of the issue before the
   hearing?

   A.
     No.  In the hearing, both the appellant and the agency representative
   have the opportunity to explain the issue as they see it, to hear the
   other side, and to ask questions.   Communication with the hearing
   officer about the merits of the appeal at any time other than the
   hearing is forbidden.  Violation of this rule by an appellant can
   result in dismissal of the appeal.  7 CFR 11.7

   Q.  May I have someone represent me in my appeal?

   A.
     An appellant may authorize someone to represent them at the hearing
   and throughout the appeal.  The appellant must authorize the
   representative in writing.  Note, however, that appellants must
   personally sign requests for appeals or reviews. 7 CFR 11.6(b)(2) and
   (c)

   Q.  May I have a mediator instead of a hearing officer?

   A.
     NAD does not mediate disputes, but appellants have the right to use
   any available alternative dispute resolution mechanism, including
   mediation.  Appellants generally have 30 days following receipt of the
   agency’s adverse determination within which to request an appeal, but
   if, during that 30-day period, an appellant requests mediation, the
   running of the 30-day period stops.  If mediation ends without
   resolving the dispute,  the clocks begins to run again from where it
   stopped.

    If mediation is requested after an appeal has been requested but
   before the hearing, the appellant is deemed to have waived his right to
   a hearing within 45 days of submission of the request for an appeal.
   But, if mediation does not resolve the dispute, the appellant has the
   right to a hearing within 45 days of conclusion of mediation. 7 CFR
   11.5(c)

   Q.  Can the hearing officer’s determination be appealed?

   A.
     Yes.  Either party may request a Director review of an appeal
   determination by a hearing officer.  The request for review must be
   personally signed by the appellant or the head of the agency.  Requests
   for review from appellants must be received by NAD no later than 30
   calendar days after the appellant receives the hearing officer’s
   determination.   Requests for review from agencies must be received by
   NAD no later than 15 business days after the agency receives the
   hearing officer’s determination. 7 CFR 11.9


   Q.  Do I get another hearing before the Director if I disagree with the
   Hearing Officer?

   A.
     No.  In a Director review, the hearing officer’s decision is examined
   to determine whether it is supported by substantial evidence on the
   record.  The parties may, however, submit additional information for
   consideration during a Director review.  7 CFR 11.9

   Q.  May I ask the Director to reconsider a Director review
   determination?

   A.
     Yes.  Either party may request a Director reconsideration of a
   Director review determination.  The request for reconsideration must be
   signed by the appellant or the head of the agency and must be received
   by NAD no later than 10 calendar days of receipt of the Director review
   determination.  A request for reconsideration must include a detailed
   statement of a material error of fact made in the determination or a
   detailed explanation of how the determination is contrary to law or
   regulation which would justify reversal or modification of the
   determination. 7 CFR 11.11

   Q.  When is an appeal considered to be filed?

   A.
     An appeal is filed when it is received in writing, when postmarked or
   when a complete facsimile copy is received by NAD.  Filing deadlines to
   request appeals, reviews and  reconsiderations are set forth in the
   regulations.  Whenever the final date for filing falls on a weekend,
   Federal holiday, or other day when NAD is not open for business, the
   filing deadline is extended to close of business on the next work day.
   The time for filing any request or document is 5:00 p.m. local time at
   the office at which the filing is made.  7 CFR 11.14


   About NAD | The NAD Process | Freedom of Information Act | Reading Room

      Civil Rights | How To Reach Us | What's New | FAQ's | Home | USDA
