http://www.bdcorr.ca.gov/cppd/miocrg/ssi_ssdi/ssireport.pdf

   FEDERAL DISABILITY BENEFITS: A KEY TO CURBING RECIDIVISM AMONG PERSONS
   WITH SEVERE MENTAL ILLNESSES Recommendations of the SSI/SSDI Work Group
   November 2001 California Board of Corrections 600 Bercut Drive
   Sacramento, California 95814 bdcorr.ca.gov Executive Summary The need
   to improve California's response to offenders with a serious mental
   illness has received increasing attention from state policymakers over
   the past few years. Spurred in large part by the public safety and
   economic implications of maintaining the status quo, the Legislature
   established and funded an unprecedented initiative  the Mentally Ill
   Offender Crime Reduction Grant (MIOCRG) program  to identify the most
   effective interventions for reducing recidivism among this population.
   In addition to providing community-based treatment and supervision to
   persons with schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and other serious mental
   illnesses upon their release from jail, this program requires the 26
   participating counties to consider strategies for helping these
   individuals secure a stable source of income and a safe and decent
   residence. Federal entitlement programs  Supplemental Security Income
   (SSI), Social Security Disability Income (SSDI) and Medicaid/Medicare
   are often the only source of income support for people who suffer a
   serious mental illness. Under federal law, however, disability benefits
   are almost always either suspended or terminated while an individual is
   in jail. Although mentally ill persons need treatment services,
   housing, food and other necessities as soon as they are released from
   jail, the process for reinstating benefits or filing a new claim is not
   well understood. The process also takes time  and, in many cases, even
   a short delay in regaining benefits increases the likelihood of
   destabilization and further contact with law enforcement. In
   consultation with concerned legislators and staff, the Board of
   Corrections' management team directed staff to convene a work group of
   subject matter experts from around the state to examine this critical
   issue and develop recommendations on policies and practices that would
   facilitate the reinstatement of disability benefits upon an inmate's
   release from jail. The SSI/SSDI Work Group met in Sacramento in late
   September and developed the following five recommendations, each of
   which is discussed in more detail in this paper. * Initiate training
   for jail managers/staff on various issues related to the disability
   benefit reinstatement process. * Encourage the development of working
   relationships between affected county officials and their local Social
   Security Administration office(s). * Develop a process for determining
   "best practices" across the state and disseminating this information to
   stakeholders. * Encourage jail administrators to use a portion of their
   Inmate Welfare Funds to support case managers and/or an interim
   assistance program for released inmates. * Provide MIOCRG funding to
   all interested counties on a permanent basis. Studies indicate that an
   estimated 15 percent of the inmates in California jails are diagnosed
   with a serious mental illness and that these individuals have a higher
   rate of recidivism than other offenders. The SSI/SSDI Work Group agrees
   with nationally recognized experts who assert that most mentally ill
   offenders stand little chance of breaking the cycle of recidivism
   without an income. For this reason, the Work Group believes that
   strategies designed to facilitate the reinstatement of SSI/SSDI
   benefits should be an important part of California's ongoing commitment
   to providing the treatment and support needed to curb recidivism among
   persons with a serious mental illness. Understanding the Problem
   According to a 1999 report by the U.S. Department of Justice, a growing
   number of jail inmates nationwide suffer from a severe mental illness.
   California is no exception to this trend. In 1984, for example, persons
   diagnosed with schizophrenia, bipolar disorder or other mental
   illnesses comprised less than three percent of the state's jail
   population. Today, an estimated 15 percent of the 74,000-plus inmates
   in California jails, or approximately 11,000 persons, are diagnosed
   with a serious mental illness. Research indicates that the majority of
   these offenders committed relatively minor offenses such as petty
   theft, disorderly conduct, assault, trespassing and alcohol or
   drug-related charges  and, more often than not, their behavior was
   linked to their illness. Research also shows that mentally ill inmates
   are more likely than others to be repeat offenders. Widely recognized
   experts with the Bazelon Center for Mental Health Law in Washington,
   D.C. and National GAINS Center in New York maintain that adequate
   resources  i.e., income to pay for housing, food and other basics  are
   absolutely critical to curbing recidivism among persons with a serious
   mental illness. Law enforcement and mental health professionals agree
   that a lack of income contributes to the cycle of recidivism among
   mentally ill offenders. People with disabilities, including a severe
   mental illness, are eligible for income support through two different
   entitlement programs administered by the Social Security Administration
   (SSA)  Supplemental Security Income (SSI) and/or Social Security
   Disability Income (SSDI). For the purposes of these entitlements,
   disability is based on an individual's inability to work. People are
   considered disabled if they are unable to do any kind of work for which
   they are suited and their disability is expected to last (or has
   lasted) for at least year or to result in death. SSI is for low- income
   disabled persons: SSDI is for those who have worked and paid Social
   Security taxes. Some people with a serious mental illness qualify for
   both entitlements. In addition, in California and most other states,
   anyone receiving SSI is automatically covered by Medicaid (called Medi-
   Cal in California), a federal-state program that covers physician
   services, general hospital care and, importantly, an array of mental
   health services for people with severe mental illnesses. Under federal
   law, disability benefit payments are nearly always interrupted  either
   "suspended" or terminated, depending on the type of benefit and length
   of incarceration  when someone is in jail. When a person is
   incarcerated for less than 12 consecutive months, for example, SSI
   payments are suspended but may be reinstated after SSA verifies the
   individual's release from custody and other eligibility factors, which
   can take a couple of weeks but sometimes much longer. SSI eligibility
   is terminated for inmates who have been in jail 12 consecutive months
   or more. In these situations, the individual must file an entirely new
   application and resubmit evidence of his/her disability  a process that
   typically takes several months from start to end and may take up to
   nine months or longer. The problem, simply stated, is that even a short
   delay in regaining disability entitlements upon release from jail
   increases the likelihood that mentally ill offenders will experience
   symptoms of their illness and have further contact with law
   enforcement. One factor contributing to this problem is that
   individuals with a serious mental illness often need assistance in
   applying for or requesting reinstatement of their SSI/SSDI benefits
   reinstated upon release from jail. Mental health or social service case
   managers offer this type of assistance, but dedicated staff positions
   are currently not available in all jails. To its credit, the
   Legislature has appropriated a total of $104 million in the past three
   years to the Mentally Ill Offender Crime Reduction Grant (MIOCRG)
   program, which now supports the implementation and evaluation of
   locally developed demonstration projects designed to reduce crime, jail
   crowding and criminal justice costs associated with mentally ill
   offenders in 26 counties. Recognizing that these individuals must have
   income support if they are to successfully maintain themselves in the
   community, MIOCRG counties are using grant dollars to fund efforts
   aimed at helping mentally ill persons secure SSI/SSDI benefits upon
   release from jail. On a statewide basis, the extent of the need for
   such assistance is unknown. However, initial data reported by 15
   counties administering demonstration projects as part of the MIOCRG
   program show that over half of the nearly 1,900 participants through
   December 2000 were receiving SSI or SSDI (mostly SSI) during the 30
   days prior to their qualifying arrest and subsequent entry into the
   program. Several counties have also reported, anecdotally, that the
   assistance these projects are providing with reinstatement of
   disability entitlements ($433 to $872 a month depending on the
   individual's living arrangement) has been instrumental in efforts to
   stabilize clients and keep them from re-offending. A lack of
   understanding about federal entitlement policies also contributes to
   the problem. As outlined in a March 2001 report issued by the Bazelon
   Center, for example, jail staff may not be aware that the benefit
   reinstatement process can begin while an inmate is in custody or that
   the facility has the option of entering into a pre-release agreement
   with its local Social Security office to streamline the process. In
   general, these written agreements involve improved communication and
   cooperation  in essence, a good working relationship  between the jail
   and local Social Security office (see box below). A formal pre-release
   agreement is not required, however. For example, the Los Angeles County
   Sheriff's Department, whose jails house the largest number of mentally
   ill inmates in the nation, recently initiated a partnership with local
   SSA offices that includes improved notification procedures, a newly
   developed document certifying an inmate's period of confinement, and
   staff training. County officials have expressed optimism that this
   partnership will expedite reinstatement of benefits upon an inmate's
   return to the community. Pre-Release Agreements The Bazelon Center
   recommends the use of formal pre-release agreements between
   correctional institutions and local offices of the Social Security
   Administration. Jails agree to: * Notify SSA of inmates likely to meet
   SSI criteria who will be released within the next 30 days; * Provide to
   SSA current medical evidence and non-medical information that may
   support the inmate's claim; * Provide to SSA the anticipated release
   date and notify SSA if that changes; and * Notify SSA when the inmate
   is actually released. SSA will: * Train jail staff about SSI rules and
   work with them to ensure that the application procedures work smoothly;
   * Provide a contact person at Social Security to assist jail staff with
   the pre-release procedure; * Process reapplications and new
   applications as quickly as possible; and * Promptly notify the jail of
   the decision on the released inmate's eligibility. Addressing the
   Problem The Board of Corrections works in partnership with city and
   county officials to develop and maintain standards for the construction
   and operation of local jails and juvenile detention facilities, and for
   the employment and training of local corrections and probation
   personnel. The Board also inspects local adult and juvenile detention
   facilities, disburses training funds, and administers local detention
   facility construction and crime prevention grant programs, including
   the Mentally Ill Offender Crime Reduction Grant program. In light of
   these responsibilities, the Board's management team welcomed the
   opportunity to convene a work group for the purpose of developing
   recommendations on policies and practices that would facilitate the
   reinstatement of federal disability benefits upon an inmate's release
   from jail. Comprised of subject matter experts throughout the state
   (see Appendix A  Roster of Work Group Members), the Work Group met on
   September 25, 2001 and, after a discussion on various issues related to
   the problem, developed the following five recommendations.
   Recommendation #1: Initiate training for jail managers/staff on various
   issues related to the disability benefit reinstatement process.
   Although recognizing that some jail administrators are keenly aware of
   the issues surrounding disability benefits, the Work Group felt that
   many detention facility managers would benefit from training that
   covered such topics as SSI eligibility criteria, the importance of
   federal entitlements in promoting the post-custody stabilization of
   persons with a serious mental illness, the options available to jails
   in facilitating the benefit reinstatement process, the documentation
   needed to certify an individual's period of confinement, and inmate
   release times. The Work Group indicated that counties should initiate
   training opportunities by contacting their local Social Security
   office. SSA staff would provide training to jail staff and, as
   appropriate or needed, to community-based mental health providers that
   work with jails in serving mentally ill offenders. The Board of
   Corrections would provide technical assistance as needed. In March
   2001, the Bazelon Center for Mental Health Law issued a publication
   that explains federal disability payment programs and provides policy
   recommendations designed to ensure a successful transition from jail
   into the community for people with severe mental illnesses. Training of
   jail staff on federal entitlement policies was among the Center's
   recommendations. Recommendation #2: Encourage the development of
   working relationships between affected county officials and their local
   SSA office(s). The Work Group felt that the Sheriff's Department should
   take the lead in establishing a working relationship with the district
   manager of the local SSA field office. The group indicated that the
   county mental health and/or social service directors would also benefit
   from such a relationship. Recommendation #3: Develop a process for
   determining "best practices" across the state and for disseminating
   this information to stakeholders. Some counties have implemented
   policies and/or procedures for helping mentally ill offenders obtain
   their disability benefits in a timely fashion upon release from jail.
   However, since federal SSI/SSDI rules give localities considerable
   flexibility in making changes that can expedite access to benefits for
   inmates leaving jail, the Work Group felt that stakeholders throughout
   the state (e.g., sheriffs, mental health directors, welfare directors)
   would benefit from an assessment of the effectiveness of current county
   practices. Recommendation #4: Encourage jail administrators to use a
   portion of their Inmate Welfare Funds to support case managers and/or
   an interim assistance program for released inmates. Penal Code Section
   4025 authorizes sheriffs to establish and administer an Inmate Welfare
   Fund (IWF) with revenues generated from the sale of goods from the
   county jail store, inmate art and craftwork, and pay telephones used
   primarily by inmates. Sheriffs have considerable flexibility in the
   expenditure of these funds (see Appendix B  Penal Code Section 4025).
   Based on their understanding of the law, the Work Group maintained that
   it would be appropriate for jail administrators to expend a portion of
   IWF money for mental health and/or social service case managers who
   would be responsible for assisting mentally ill inmates in regaining
   disability benefits as quickly as possible, and for connecting these
   individuals  as well as other inmates  with community-based services.
   Many counties have identified a tremendous need for this type of
   service. In 1999, for example, 38 of the 44 counties that participated
   in the MIOCRG planning process cited the need for discharge planning
   that includes, at a minimum, referrals by case managers to appropriate
   community-based programs. The Work Group also recommends that Sheriffs
   explore the possibility of using the IWF to establish and support an
   interim assistance program that would provide immediate, temporary
   financial assistance to inmates who experience a delay in regaining
   disability benefits upon their release from jail. There is already a
   system in place for interim assistance from county welfare or mental
   health departments, which may enter into a contract with the SSA and
   receive reimbursement for the financial aid once the individual's
   SSI/SSDI payments resume. The Work Group agreed that IWF funds might be
   another source of interim assistance through a similar agreement
   between the Sheriff's department and SSA. Recommendation #5: Provide
   MIOCRG funding to all interested counties on a permanent basis. The
   MIOCRG program currently supports a total of 30 projects in 26
   different counties. These projects are providing an array of enhanced
   services to seriously mentally ill offenders. Jail-based interventions
   include early identification and screening procedures, comprehensive
   mental health assessments, case management, and pre-release planning.
   Enhanced services in the community include intensive case management
   and supervision, medication education and management, and assistance in
   securing housing, vocational training, employment and federal
   entitlements. The Work Group believes that these interventions are
   crucial for persons with a serious mental illness to make a successful
   transition from jail into the community. For this reason, the group
   recommends that State funds be appropriated on an ongoing basis to
   support the continuation of existing MIOCRG projects as well as the
   expansion of the program to all counties. APPENDIX A SSI/SSDI Work
   Group Members Donna Codoni Susan Kost Social Security Administration
   Public Affairs Specialist Social Security Administration Regional
   Office Social Security Administration P.O. Box 4206/1221 Nevin Ave.
   4700 Roseville Rd., Suite 102 Richmond, CA 94804 North Highlands, CA
   95660 Phone: (510) 970-8236 Phone: (916) 338-6900 Fax: (510) 970-8101
   Fax: (916) 338-6934 E-mail: donna.codoni@ssa.gov E-mail:
   susan.kost@ssa.gov Joan Hoss Sherrill Martin Director of Mental Health
   Services Mental Health Advocate Representing the California Mental
   Health Mental Health Advocacy Services Directors Association 1336
   Wilshire Blvd. Suite 102 Sutter-Yuba Bi-County Mental Health Services
   Los Angeles, CA 90017 1965 Live Oak Boulevard Phone: (213) 484-1628
   Yuba City, CA 95993 Fax: (818) 507 0967 Phone: (530) 822-7200 E-mail:
   smartin@mhas-la.org Fax: (530) 822-7108 E-mail: jhoss@co.sutter.ca.us
   Tom Sullivan Jan Gallaway Director of Mental Health Services Program
   Mgr. Homeless and Disability Programs Representing California State
   Assn. of Counties Representing California Welfare Directors Association
   Department of Health and Human Services Department of Human Assistance
   3701 Branch Center Road 1590 North A Street Sacramento, CA 95827
   Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone: 875-5521 Phone: 874-4323 Fax: Fax: E-mail:
   sullivant@saccounty.net E-mail: jgallaway@saccounty.net Lt. David
   Sepulveda Maryann Save Jail Administrator Director of Program Services
   Santa Clara County Department of Correction Santa Clara County
   Department of Correction 180 West Hedding Street 150 W. Hedding Ave.
   San Jose, CA 95110 San Jose, CA 95110 Phone: (408) 299-2431 Phone:
   (408) 299-8737 Fax: (408) 299-2999 Fax: (408) 287-0989 E-mail:
   dave.sepulveda.@doc.co.scl.ca.us E-mail:
   maryann.save@hhs.co.santa-clara.ca.us BOC Staff: Jerry Read
   jread@bdcorr.ca.gov Fred Morawcznski - fmorawcznski@bdcorr.ca.gov Sukie
   Dhillon  sdhillon@bdcorr.ca.gov Lynda Frost  lfrost@bdcorr.ca.gov 600
   Bercut Dr. Sacramento, CA 95814 Phone (916) 445-5073 Fax: (916)
   327-3317 APPENDIX B PENAL CODE SECTION 4025 (a) The sheriff of each
   county may establish, maintain and operate a store in connection with
   the county jail and for this purpose may purchase confectionery,
   tobacco and tobacco users' supplies, postage and writing materials, and
   toilet articles and supplies and to sell these goods, articles, and
   supplies for cash to inmates in the jail. (b) The sale prices of the
   articles offered for sale at the store shall be fixed by the sheriff.
   Any profit shall be deposited in an inmate welfare fund to be kept in
   the treasury of the county. (c) There shall also be deposited in the
   inmate welfare fund 10 percent of all gross sales of inmate hobbycraft.
   (d) There shall be deposited in the inmate welfare fund any money,
   refund, rebate, or commission received from a telephone company or pay
   telephone provider when the money, refund, rebate, or commission is
   attributable to the use of pay telephones which are primarily used by
   inmates while incarcerated. (e) The money and property deposited in the
   inmate welfare fund shall be expended by the sheriff primarily for the
   benefit, education, and welfare of the inmates confined within the
   jail. Any funds that are not needed for the welfare of the inmates may
   be expended for the maintenance of county jail facilities. Maintenance
   of county jail facilities may include, but is not limited to, the
   salary and benefits of personnel used in the programs to benefit the
   inmates, including, but not limited to, education, drug and alcohol
   treatment, welfare, library, accounting, and other programs deemed
   appropriate by the sheriff. An itemized report of these expenditures
   shall be submitted annually to the board of supervisors. (f) The
   operation of a store within any other county adult detention facility
   which is not under the jurisdiction of the sheriff shall be governed by
   the provisions of this section, except that the board of supervisors
   shall designate the proper county official to exercise the duties
   otherwise allocated in this section to the sheriff. (g) The operation
   of a store within any city adult detention facility shall be governed
   by the provisions of this section, except that city officials shall
   assume the respective duties otherwise outlined in this section for
   county officials. (h) The treasurer may, pursuant to Article 1
   (commencing with Section 53600), or Article 2 (commencing with Section
   53630), of Chapter 4 of Part 1 of Division 2 of Title 5 of the
   Government Code, deposit, invest, or reinvest any part of the inmate
   welfare fund, in excess of that which the treasurer deems necessary for
   immediate use. The interest or increment accruing on these funds shall
   be deposited in the inmate welfare fund. (i) The sheriff may expend
   money from the inmate welfare fund to provide indigent inmates, prior
   to release from the county jail or any other adult detention facility
   under the jurisdiction of the sheriff, with essential clothing and
   transportation expenses within the county or, at the discretion of the
   sheriff, transportation to the inmate's county of residence, if the
   county is within the state or 500 miles from the county of
   incarceration. This subdivision does not authorize expenditure of money
   from the inmate welfare fund for the transfer of any inmate to the
   custody of any other law enforcement official or jurisdiction.
