http://techtran.msfc.nasa.gov/classroom.html

   Technology Transfer Program - Headlines


   Home

   Search
   Marshall Capabilities
   Partnerships
   Innovator's Corner
   Business Opportunities
   Working with Marshall
   Small Business Programs
   Technology Spotlight
   In-house Programs
   Technology Opportunities
   Facilities Commercialization
   Software Opportunities
   Publications
   Success Stories
   Patents/Licenses
   Other Links
   Site Map



   How does NASA technology affect your life? Just look around you, the
   benefits of America's space program can be found just about everywhere!

   We take satellite broadcasts from around the world for granted, along
   with cordless power tools and smoke detectors. They are all results of
   NASA research. While watching a football game, we don't realize that
   the players are better protected from injury by helmet padding
   developed by NASA. Hospitals have perhaps the most important uses of
   NASA technology, from diagnostic tools to laser surgery.



   red block

             Space Food

   Everyone including astronauts enjoy ice cream and pizza. When the first
   astronauts went into space their food was stored in a tube that
   resembled a toothpaste container. This type of food was not very tasty.
   In planning for the long duration Apollo missions, NASA conducted
   extensive research into space food. One of the techniques developed was
   freeze drying. In this process, the foods are cooked, quickly frozen
   and then slowly heated in a vacuum chamber to remove the ice crystals
   formed by the freezing process. The final product retains 98 percent of
   its nutrition and weighs only 20 percent of its original weight.
   Perfect for a space dinner.

   red block

             Golf Balls

   It is every golfer's dream to hit the ball close to the pin, whether
   for a hole-in-one or a birdie. Space Shuttle external tank technology
   was implemented into Wilson Sporting Goods Company Ultra 500 golf ball
   to create "the most symmetrical ball surface available." The selection
   of dimples and their placement on the ball helps the ball travel longer
   distances.

   red block

             Cordless Products

   Whether you are cleaning up spilled soil from a houseplant or
   tightening the screws in the door jam, a cordless product comes in
   handy. These products were handy for astronauts on the Apollo missions
   as well. During the Apollo Program, NASA needed a powerful, portable
   drill to allow the astronauts to go further away from the Lunar
   Experiment Module (the moon buggy) to gather samples from beneath the
   moon's surface. In response, Black & Decker designed a motor that would
   operate more efficiently and use less power. Since those first days of
   cordless products, Black & Decker has manufactured such products as the
   Dustbuster and the cordless screwdriver. These products are not only
   used around the home, but in the operating room as well.

   red block

             Nerf Glider

   Toy designers at Hasbro wanted to create a foam glider that a child
   could fly with little knowledge of aeronautics. But early in its'
   development it was discovered that the gliders didn't fly so well. The
   toy designers contacted NASA for help in developing their wonderful
   toy. The engineers provided information about how wing design and shape
   are integral to a glider's performance. The toy designers also received
   hands-on training on the physics of designing and flying gliders.

   red block

             School Bus

   The ride to school and back home has been made smoother and safer with
   NASA technology. A school bus frame originally was an ordinary truck
   frame. However, concerns for student's safety prompted some
   manufacturers to develop a frame specifically for school transport. A
   company used NASA technology, developed for aviation and space use, to
   design a stronger and safer bus frame. They also used NASA testing to
   predict how the frame would hold up under stress.

   red block

             Computer Joysticks

   Computer games can now be played with all the precision and sensitivity
   needed for a safe and soft Space Shuttle touchdown. A game-controlling
   joystick for personal computer-based entertainment systems was modeled
   after controls used in shuttle stimulators. Astronauts used the
   joystick to practice runway landings and orbit maneuvering.

   red block

             Helmet Padding

   It's late in the fourth quarter. The home team trail by four points.
   The star halfback get s a handoff and heads straight up the middle.
   WHAM! He's met by the middle linebacker in a ground-shaking head-on
   collision! OUCH! Is the halfback hurt? Will he get up to carry on the
   fight for his team?

   The bodies unpile. Yes, there he is! He hops up and trots back to the
   huddle. On the next play he throws a halfback pass to the tight
   end-Touchdown! T

   he crowd goes wild. Everybody's so excited they do not think about how
   helmet padding made from aircraft passenger seats-developed by NASA's
   Ames Research Center cushioned the halfback's head.

   Later in the week in the same stadium, baseball and soccer teams will
   use the same NASA technology as chest protectors and shin guards.

   red block

             Smoke Detector

   The smoke detectors now required by law to be placed in all homes
   evolved from technology originally developed for NASA's first space
   station, Skylab. The smoke detector has been credited to saving lives
   all over the world.
   red block

             Ski Boot

   When astronauts perform activities outside of the Space Shuttle they
   must be able to maneuver side to side and front to back without moving
   the placement of their feet. The Flexon concept, developed by Comfort
   Products Ltd., is an adaptation of the accordion-like appearance of an
   extravehicular space suit joint that allows astronauts to move around
   more easily. This concept was used to develop a ski boot that allows
   easy movement and a better fit.
   red block

             Bike Helmet

   Who would have ever thought that technology used to reduce drag on the
   wings of fighter aircraft during World War II would be reapplied
   decades later to improve the safety of bicycle riders? The old bike
   helmets were not only unattractive, but heavy and caused riders to feel
   warm once they began to generate body heat. The inventor of the Giro
   bike helmet called NASA for assistance. Using technology developed for
   fighter aircraft during the 1940s, Giro developed an aerodynamic,
   lightweight helmet designed to improve riders' safety while allowing
   them to go faster. The helmet features air vents in the front and back
   to pull cool air into the headgear and channel it around the biker's
   head. The 1989 Tour de France winner, Greg Lemond, wore a Giro helmet
   during his prestigious ride.
   red block

             Quartz Clocks

   Take a look at your wristwatch. Did you know that NASA technology was
   used to develop it? These timing devices, containing quartz timing
   crystals, were developed for NASA as a highly accurate, lightweight,
   and durable timing device for the lunar-bound Apollo spacecraft.
   General Time Corp., under contract to NASA, developed the quartz
   crystal for obtaining a stable time base from which all mission times
   could be derived.
   red block

             Ribbed Swimsuit

   Did you know that swimmers can wear a swimsuit that actually makes them
   faster swimmers? In the 1980s, Langley Research Center invented
   "riblets", small, barely visible groves that can be placed on the
   surface of airplanes. When these "riblets" are implemented into a
   swimsuit they reduce skin friction, making a swimmer glide through the
   water more easily. The ribbed swimsuit has been tested to be 10-15
   percent faster than any other world class swimsuit. In the 1995 Pan
   American Games, swimmers wearing the ribbed swimsuits won 13 gold
   medals, 3 silver and 1 bronze.
   red block

             Football Stadiums

   Fans of the NFL's Detroit Lions don't worry about game day weather.
   Material used in the Apollo space suits was adapted to create the roof
   of Pontiac Stadium, home of the Lions. The material can survive the
   effects of the weather and sunlight and can go along time without being
   replaced.
