http://deoffice.gsfc.nasa.gov/index.shtml


                                   banner


   background decoration round corner invisible round corner


   On This Page     About Digital Earth     Upcoming Events     Latest
   News
   Helping to Unlock the World's Knowledge

   about DE



     New innovation and global data sharing is allowing everyone
     unprecedented access to information about our planet. Although some of
     this data is historical and political, most of it refers to a specific
     place on the Earth's surface. From building plans of a local town hall
     to population density, Digital Earth (DE) combines this information
     with satellite images to enable a 3-D environment that tells an
     ever-changing story about our Earth. The DE environment will enable
     access to this information, leading us towards better decision-making
     and a deeper discovery of our world. Through national partnerships, DE
     is working to make this geo-referenced data come alive for everyone.
     The National Digital Earth Initiative enables and facilitates the
     evolution of DE. Multi-government agencies have embraced the spirit of
     cooperation by sharing information and forging alliances with the
     public and private sectors to improve the quality of lives for all
     American citizens.
     NASA's Digital Earth Office (DEO) aligns NASA's data and resources with
     the ever-growing DE. The office performs secretariat functions for the
     national DE Initiative and fosters the evolution of the DE environment.
     NASA's Digital Earth Program (DEP) is NASA's contribution to the DE
     environment. It encourages everyone to embrace the use of DE
     methodologies, including those evolving from integrated systems and
     data sets to seamless environments. Also see: State of NASA's Digital
     Earth Program.
                                                    link to top of content

   events heading



                            JavaScript is Not Enabled

           This document is intended for JavaScript enabled browsers.

               Netscape Users: Enable JavaScript in the broswer's
      advanced preferences found under the edit menu and reload this page.

                                       link to top of content more news

   news heading



                            JavaScript is Not Enabled

           This document is intended for JavaScript enabled browsers.

               Netscape Users: Enable JavaScript in the broswer's
      advanced preferences found under the edit menu and reload this page.

     Digital Earth Lives On
     Source: Federal Computer Week on Mar 12, 2001
     By Bryant Jordan.

                                       link to top of content more news

   intro button


   bullet Vision
   bullet Goals and Objectives
   bullet Program Themes
   round corner
   link to news
   link to progress
   link to library
   link to participate
   link to related links
   link to public site
   link to staff page
   Link to top of page
     round corner
   round corner Nasa Official: Tom Taylor Author: Tom Taylor   Webmaster
   Development Team   Privacy Statement   Top round corner

   round corner
