http://www-fbsc.ncifcrf.gov/collinsresearch.html

   Welcome to the ABCC Website!


   ABCC website:  About ABCC Accounts  Hardware  Runable programs
                    Links    Software Networking     Training
   [logo55.gif]

   Search in ABCC pages _______________

   Search Reset
   GENERAL INFO
   Home
   Mission Statement
   Email us
   HELP DESK (301-846-5555)
   Staff
   User support (web-based)
   Training
   Tutorials
   Hardware Messages-of-the-Day
   Research
   Services
   High Performance Computing
   Video Conferenc ing at the FCRDC
   BIO-LOGUE Archives
   SOFTWARE
   QUICK LINKS

   [Select one__________________]
   HARDWARE
   Cray Research
   Cray SV1-4/96-96 Supercomputer
   J916 Classic Vector Computer
   J932se Vector Computer

   Silicon Graphics, Inc.
   Onyx Computer
   Power Challenge Superscalar Computer
   Origin 2000

   Digital Equipment Corporation
   Alpha 8400 Superscalar Computer

   International Business Machines
   Scalable PowerParallel 2 Superscalar Computer

   Hewlett Packard/Convex
   Exemplar UniTree Data Archival Computer

   StorageTek
   9311 Nearline Robotic Tape Silo

   Sun Microsystems
   Sun Sparc 20 workstation
   Sun Sparc 20 workstation

   MISCELLANEOUS
   FCRDC Home
   Library
   Site map
   [pixel.gif]
   Rapid Virtual Screening of Large Drug Databases
   A Research Project of Dr. Jack R. Collins and Dr. Brian T. Luke
   In the last 2 years the number of structures in the Brookhaven protein
   data bank has jumped from 3964 to 6828. The detailed knowledge of the
   atomic structure of enzymes and proteins has fueled the investigation
   of new potential drug targets by the application rational drug design
   strategies. This combination of newly determined protein structures,
   combinatorial chemistry, and high throughput screening has led to an
   explosion in the number of possible therapeutic targets and potential
   drug leads. Often, the investigation of new targets is hampered by the
   absence of initial lead compounds that bind to a specific site in the
   protein, have reasonable affinity (typically < 5 micromolar), and can
   be easily modified to generate analogues for subsequent testing and
   optimization. High throughput screening (HTS) has been applied in many
   cases where an assay suitable for HTS is known. For farnesyl protein
   transferase, researchers at Schering-Plough have shown, however, that
   computer-based 3D screening methods can yield a larger percentage of
   "hits" than HTS at a fraction of the cost. In cases where the structure
   of a protein is known, the computer screens of molecular 3D databases,
   such as the NCI or Available [collins1.jpg] Chemicals Directory (ACD)
   databases, can suggest initial lead molecules that are readily
   available. It is the goal of this research to develop a series of
   computer programs that can rapidly and reliably scan a 3D database to
   suggest the most likely candidates for laboratory testing.
   Currently available programs used for these types of problems (e.g.
   DOCK, AUTODOCK, HAMMERHEAD, FLEXX) are either slow, impose severe
   limitations on the types of ligands that can be considered, or are
   proprietary. The goal of our development effort is to create a parallel
   3D-docking and scoring algorithm that can be integrated into a suite of
   programs to efficiently screen large structural databases against
   protein targets for lead generation and subsequent testing. To
   accomplish this we have chosen a grid-based linear response function
   coupled with an evolutionary searching algorithm that scales linearly
   with this number of atoms in the molecule being docked. We emphasize
   that our goal is to develop a rapid rather than an exhaustive search.
   Successes
   The features and use of our docking and database search programs are
   illustrated in two examples. In the first we compared the results of
   our program with the known crystal structures of 10 HIV-1 protease
   inhibitors complexed with the enzyme, as well as nevirapine in its
   HIV-1 reverse transcriptase (RT) binding site. In the second example,
   we searched the NCI 3D database to find molecules that fit well into
   the RT-nonnucleoside inhibitor (NNI) binding site and could serve as
   possible lead compounds in a drug development effort.
   One of the most intensely studied targets of computer-aided,
   structure-based, drug design efforts in the past several years has been
   HIV-1 protease. As a result, the crystal structures of several drug
   candidates have been solved [collins2.jpg] and published. We chose ten
   of these molecules as test cases for our rigid docking procedures.
   Based on the crystallographic structures, our docking procedures
   resulted in an average RMS deviation of 0.39Å from experiment. These
   results indicate that it is possible to obtain computer docked
   structures that are virtually identical to experiment when the binding
   conformation is known.
   We are currently working on flexible docking procedures while trying to
   maintain the goal of a rapid screen. Programs such as DOCK 4.0 will not
   perform flexible docking on the ten molecules used in our study since
   they do not have proper anchor points and have more than eight
   rotatable bands. The current algorithms we employ dock each rigid
   structure in approximately 2.5 seconds when run on a DEC-alpha 440MHz
   processor. With further algorithmic development and increases in
   processor speed we hope to be able to perform several dockings per
   second. Increased speed is necessary to realistically accomplish
   flexible docking of drug-like molecules. This need for speed is even
   more evident in the next example where we screen the NCI database for
   compounds that fit the HIV-1 RT NNI binding site.
   [collins3.jpg] We started from the nevirapine bound HIV-1 RT crystal
   structure and first determined whether our program would correctly dock
   the inhibitor back into the protein. The results of our docking
   procedure are shown Figured F-2.
   Based on the success of the nevirapine results, we performed a screen
   of the NCI 3D database in the same binding cavity as nevirapine.
   Approximately 75% of the compounds in the database passed our
   pre-screen and were actually docked into the RT binding site. This took
   almost eight seconds per compound with the program running on an IBM
   SP-2 containing 66MHz Power2 chips. Based on the static structures
   contained in the NCI database, we found several compounds that gave
   good "fits" in the RT binding cavity. One compound that scored
   particularly well is vistamycin (shown in Figure F-3).
   Benefits of Scalable Increases in Compute Power
   The utility of molecular docking programs has been severely limited by
   the time it takes to perform a full database screen. This is
   illustrated by the timings taken from the current version of our
   program (which is one of the fastest available). The table below shows
   the computer power necessary to perform routine searches on databases
   ranging from the NCI 3D database to those available in the near future
   from the American Chemical Society (ACS). Two different time estimates
   are given: the first is for static (single conformation) searches and
   the second is for flexible compounds in rigid cavities. It is clear
   that the most useful results would be from the flexible dockings. The
   estimates are based on the speed of a single 195MHz SGI R10k CPU, and
   with a 64 processor parallel version shown in parentheses.

   #Compounds
   120,000
   1,000,000
   7,000,000
             Static
             3 days
             25 days (~9 hrs.)
             175 days (~3 days)
                               Flexible
                               ~150 days (~2 days)
                               ~1250 days (~20 days)
                               ~8750 days (~140 days)
   As the number of molecules in the molecular databases now maintained by
   vendors such as Beilstein and ACS increases, computer power will need
   to be increased dramatically to fully exploit the available information
   resources. In the meantime, further advances in algorithms for
   molecular docking and database searches will help to bring
   computer-based lead generation to reality.
