http://www.mw.nrcs.usda.gov/pubs/key_issues.html

   NRCS Midwest Regional Office [USEMAP:top-menu2.gif]

   Conservation Planning for Animal Feeding Operations - (56 k)
   Opportunity to Blend Natural Resources Use with Local Economic and
   Social Values - (21 k)
   Aging Watershed Dams: Threat to Public Health, Safety, Clean Water and
   Environment - (23 k)
   NRCS Conservation Delivery System - (20 k)
   Animal Feeding Operations: Potential Water Quality Risks - (56 k)

                                                 Adobe Acrobat Reader® is
                                                 needed to view PDF files.



   Buffer Initiative
   In April 1997, USDA officially launched the new National Conservation
   Buffer Initiative. In the Midwest Region, this initiative has resulted
   in the installation of conservation buffers which can improve soil,
   air, and water quality; enhance wildlife habitat; restore biodiversity;
   and create scenic landscapes. To date, (July 1, 1999), approximately
   643,000 acres or 178,600 miles of buffers have been established in the
   Midwest Region through the General Conservation Reserve Program (CRP),
   Continuous CRP, Wetlands Reserve Program (WRP), and Environmental
   Quality Incentive Program (EQIP).


   Clean Water Action Plan
   The Clean Water Action Plan, announced by President Clinton and Vice
   President Gore on February 19, 1998, will protect public health and
   restore our nations precious waterways by setting goals and providing
   states communities, farms, and landowners the tools and resources to
   meet them. NRCS and their partners would be the link to this plan and
   private landowners.

   Aging Watershed Initiative
   Since 1944, NRCS and local sponsors have been building floodwater
   retarding dams primarily under the authority of PL-534 anf PL-566. In
   the next 10 years, over 200 floodwater retarding dams in the Midwest
   Region will reach the end of their 50-year evaluated life span. Many of
   these dams will need rehabilitation to ensure that they continue to
   contribute to clean water, environmental improvement, economic
   development, flood reduction and in the development of an
   infrastructure on which many rural people and communities depend. A
   quick survey of the Midwest states indicated that the current
   rehabilitation needs would cost an estimated 75 million dollars.






                              Job opportunites
                              are available at:

                              USDA - NRCS

                                         [USEMAP:btm-menu.gif]
   USDA logo

   USDA is an equal opportunity employer.
   Copyright © 1999 NRCS
   Contact: Webmaster
