http://ishi.lanl.gov/sciencediversity.html

          Full diversity site
          Other Links
          Glossary
          Email list

                             The Science of Social Diversity

                             by

                  Norman L. Johnson - Theoretical Division

                                     and

                  Véronique.A. Longmire - Diversity Office



                    Published in Theoretical Division --

                      Self-Assessment, Special Feature

                           May 1999 (LA-UR-99-336)

                               PDF file (49K)



                  Viewgraphs from the Diversity Stand Down

                        May 20, 2000 - LA-UR-00-3150

                               PDF file (488K)

         PowerPoint file (172K, Notes option has full text of talk)



   Diversity in the workplace, organization, even nation, has recently
   become a much touted goal. Our understanding has evolved to recognize
   that diversity includes more than ethnic variety, but also cultural and
   educational variety, in fact, any aspect of an individual that leads to
   a variety of approaches to problems, even personality. Yet, the
   scientific basis behind the role of diversity in social systems is
   largely unknown. Research at Los Alamos is providing support for our
   intuitive understanding of the importance of diversity in social
   systems.

   Much of the past understanding about social diversity is motivated by
   the analogies to biodiversity in nature. The prevailing research on the
   role of biological diversity focuses on improvement of system
   performance (e.g., individual or species survival) by the selection
   from a pool of genetic diversity, in the process of natural selection
   or survival of the fittest. This process is fundamentally competitive
   between individuals or groups, with explicit winners and losers. This
   selection reduces diversity in its application - diversity is reduced
   by selection and must be replenished by mutation or migration. While a
   similar selection process may occur in social systems, this is neither
   an compelling justification for diversity within organizations, nor the
   only mechanism by which diversity contributes to better organizations
   or society.

   Current research at Los Alamos has identified an alternative process
   for higher system performance, which does not involve competition or
   cooperation between the individuals, but instead stresses the
   importance of non-competitive self-organization.

                                 [SciDiva.gif]

          Fig. 1. A sample maze (insert) with two minimum paths
          highlighted and the simulation results (main figure) showing the
          effect of the collective size on the path length, normalized by
          the average individual path length (about 12.8).


   Simulating collective problem solving

   We wish to address the question: what is the most simple demonstration
   of increased global performance of a collective above that of the
   individual? The idealized system examined is the solution of a
   sequential problem (Insert in Figure 1), which has many optimal and
   non-optimal solutions, solved by agents that have identical
   capabilities. While this maze problem is quite simple, it serves as a
   representation of more complex problems encountered by individuals and
   organizations: the solution of a problem that has many decisions points
   and possible solutions and that has difficulty greater than solvable by
   one individual. Here, agents can represent individuals, groups or
   organizations within a greater system.

   Because the agents have no global sense of the problem, they initially
   explore the problem until a solution is found. This "learned"
   information is then applied by the individual agent to solve the
   problem again, often with a shorter path as a consequence of
   eliminating unnecessary loops. Because the initial search is random, a
   collection of individuals shows a diversity of experience (regions of
   the maze), of preferences (preferred paths), and of performance (path
   lengths), even though they started with identical capability. (This
   source of diversity in performance by individuals of identical
   capability is a reminder how many of the advantages and disadvantages
   an individual has in social situations are a result of random events
   and not directly related to our "inherent" capability. Said another
   way, if we replayed or lived our own lives again, likely it would be
   quite different due to these random effects.)

   Information for a collective of individuals is then constructed by a
   linear combination of the each individual's experiences. Then the same
   rules are used on this collective information to find a collective
   solution. As seen in Figure 1, the collective typically outperforms the
   average individual for larger collectives. In repeated solutions to a
   problem, we tend to remember only the information needed to solve a
   problem and forget extraneous information associated with unused paths.
   Here, the equivalent effect is for the individual to contribute to the
   collective only "established" information along paths used by
   individual, thereby "forgetting" unused paths. Both the learned and
   established information produce the same path for the individual agent.
   As seen in Figure 1, the solution using the established information
   performs better than the learned information. Furthermore, for
   collectives above 20, the optimal solution is found, even though
   nothing in the agent's rules seeks a minimal path length. Figure 2
   shows one mechanism for the reason that the collective does better than
   any individual: individual information can be combined to indicate a
   shorter path for the collective.


                                 [SciDivb.gif]

                            Individual solutions
                             Collective solution

          Fig. 2. One mechanism for the better performance of the
          collective. To see how the collective solution is found, pick
          the path at each node that is traveled by the greatest number of
          individuals - this corresponds to the maximum preference of the
          group. Note that the collective path length is better than any
          individual.



   The organizational equivalent to the mechanism in Fig. 2 is how a group
          of workers may casually share information about their own
          experience at a certain point in a decision making process. But
          because they arrived at a common point from a different path,
          the relevance of their information may not be apparent and
          therefore only of value in a casual exchange and not in direct
          cooperation or competition. In an organization with many casual
          exchanges, these seemingly random sources of information can be
          reinforced by a collective exchange and lead either a group of
          individuals or a single individual to a better overall solution.
          This improved collective performance, due minimally to the
          random social exchange of diverse individuals, also benefits the
          functioning of the whole. It is also easy to see how this same
          collective effect would not happen with a low diversity group.


   Importance of Diversity

   To better understand the role and importance of diversity in this
   simple model and gain insight into social systems, quantitative
   measures of diversity were examined. The first choice of a measure, the
   breadth of experience of a collective over all possible paths, was
   found to be uncorrelated with performance.

   The best measure found defines diversity as the degree of unique
   information in a collection of agents. If all agents contribute the
   same information, even if it is for the entire domain, then this
   measure of diversity is low. If each agent contributes unique
   information not shared by others, then this diversity measure is high.
   Consequently, collectives contributing "established" rather than
   "learned" information exhibit higher diversity, even though less
   information is contributed by each agent. So we conclude that it is not
   how much information is important, but how the information contributed
   fits in to the other information known.

   Not only does this measure of diversity correlate best with collective
   performance, it also indicates the degree of insensitivity to noise.
   The performance of a collective with low diversity is poor when valid
   information is randomly replaced with false information, a measure of
   the robustness of a solution. False information can lead to unexplored
   paths in a less diverse collective, and then the solution degenerates
   to a random search (imagine driving and finding yourself on an
   unfamiliar road - the solution is either to backtrack or to search
   randomly). Diverse collectives have contingency information that makes
   the groups highly insensitive to noise. The stabilizing effect of
   diverse groups is critical in dealing with difficult problems where
   false information can lead to unexplored paths. In research which
   focuses on rational individuals with perfect information, an evaluation
   of performance often does not consider the robustness to noise, hence,
   the reason that diversity is rarely considered important. Yet,
   robustness is a critical aspect of any modern organization.

   If the effect of information exchange between individuals (a form of
   cooperation) is included in the above simulations, such that the
   individual while learning the maze can benefit from other agent's
   experiences, we find that improved individual performance can be
   achieved. But if the outside information is used too strongly, then
   there is the ultimate loss of diversity in the collective as every
   individual has the identical experience. In this case, the robustness
   of the collective can be severely degraded if the positive feedback or
   coherence is too great. We conclude that cooperation is actually a form
   of selection and reduces the expression of diversity (if I cooperate
   with you consistenly, then I don't cooperate with someone else). It is
   easy to see that the random associations that are beneficial to the
   group and individual above can be reinforced to the point of being
   exclusive. While this leads to more optimal performace, it also causes
   the groups to be less robust. (To see how this transition is part of a
   bigger view of how systems develop, see the paper titled Developmental
   Insights into Evolving Systems: Roles of Diversity, Non-Selection,
   Self-Organization, Symbiosis on the documents page. )


   Social and Organizational Implications

   The above study illustrates how diversity can arise with agents of
   identical capability from experiential differences within a system
   which contains multiple options. Just the existence of random options
   in the problem domain creates diversity. This is in contrast to the
   standard ecological arguments that diversity originates from
   competition to fill new niches. It is believed that this generation of
   random options and traits are a direct consequence of the system
   becoming more complex, a natural consequence of the development cycle
   of evolving systems (see the paper titled Developmental Insights into
   Evolving Systems: Roles of Diversity, Non-Selection, Self-Organization,
   Symbiosis on the documents page. )

   Furthermore, higher system performance and robustness occurs by the
   simple combination of the experiences of individuals, even though each
   individual solves a problem from a limited perspective. Unlike the
   selectionist view of diversity in natural systems, this study indicates
   that even in the absence of direct competition between and the
   consequencial selection of individuals, a higher system performance can
   be achieved with an alternative mechanism: the non-competitive
   combination of information from a diversity of individuals. In fact,
   the idealized system exhibits lower performance or lower stability if
   any selection is made, either by eliminating participation or reducing
   their contribution. In some cases, it is even found that eliminating
   the contributions of the higher performers actually can improve the
   group solution!

   The simulations also illustrate that improved collective performance
   can only be achieved with minimally skilled (or better) agents. If the
   agents gain experience randomly (have no "skill"), the collective shows
   no improvement over the average individual. We conclude that the
   performance of the whole is tied to the performance of the individual -
   as the individual learns, the non-competitive combination of diverse
   experiences increases the performance of the system as a whole.

   These results argue for the importance of organizational environment
   that freely exchanges information for both the benefit of the
   individual, but also for the group or organization. Many economic and
   social models of human dynamics begin with the assumption of
   competitive agents seeking limited resources. Furthermore, they embody
   significant capability in their agents to explain higher global
   performance. In the simple model above, system performance is shown to
   be greater than the capability of the agents and to occur from
   essentially independent agents randomly sharing information. Mechanisms
   of competition or cooperation are not required. The results also show
   that if the collective dominates the learning of the individual, and
   thereby reduces the diversity, then group performance become less
   robust.

   In modern times of organizations becoming more complex and facing
   problems of greater difficulty, centrally directed management of expert
   resources may not be an optimal approach to problem solving. For
   organizations to take advantage of increased performance from
   diversity, these studies suggest that, in addition to a skilled and
   diverse workforce, it is also necessary to encourage the expression of
   diverse views and to enable mechanisms for the exchange and processing
   of these views. The implications for all organizations is to create a
   work environment in which all employees are willing and able to
   contribute their knowledge and experience to solving the problems
   facing these organizations.


                    Learn more at the Full diversity site
