http://p25ext.lanl.gov/disclaimer.html

   [100x1.gif] [18x1.gif] [121x1.gif]
   Los Alamos National Laboratory

Conditions of Use

   Notice to Users: This is a Federal computer system and is the property
   of the United States Government. It is for authorized use only. Users
   (authorized or unauthorized) have no explicit or implicit expectation
   of privacy.

   Any or all uses of this system and all files on this system may be
   intercepted, monitored, recorded, copied, audited, inspected, and
   disclosed to authorized site, Department of Energy, and law enforcement
   personnel, as well as authorized officials of other agencies, both
   domestic and foreign. By using this system, the user consents to such
   interception, monitoring, recording, copying, auditing, inspection, and
   disclosure at the discretion of authorized site or Department of Energy
   personnel.

   Unauthorized or improper use of this system may result in
   administrative disciplinary action and civil and criminal penalties. By
   continuing to use this system you indicate your awareness of and
   consent to these terms and conditions of use. LOG OFF IMMEDIATELY if
   you do not agree to the conditions stated in this warning.

Policy and Disclaimers

   Policy Statement: The Los Alamos National Laboratory strongly supports
   academic freedom and a researcher's right to publish; therefore, the
   Laboratory as an institution does not endorse the viewpoint of a
   publication or guarantee its technical correctness.

   Disclaimer of Liability: With respect to documents available from this
   server, neither the United States Government nor the University of
   California nor any of their employees, makes any warranty, express or
   implied, including the warranties of merchantability and fitness for a
   particular purpose, or assumes any legal liability or responsibility
   for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any information,
   apparatus, product, or process disclosed, or represents that its use
   would not infringe privately owned rights.

   Disclaimer of Endorsement: Reference herein to any specific commercial
   products, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer,
   or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement,
   recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or the
   University of California. The views and opinions of authors expressed
   herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the United States
   Government or the University of California, and shall not be used for
   advertising or product endorsement purposes.

Privacy Notice

   Visitors to LANL Web sites have no explicit or implicit expectation of
   privacy. The Laboratory uses software programs to monitor network
   traffic to identify unauthorized attempts to upload or change
   information or otherwise cause damage. Any or all visits to LANL Web
   sites are subject to the Conditions of Use.

   We collect no personal information about you when you visit a LANL Web
   site, except where otherwise stated, unless you choose to provide this
   information to us. However, we collect and store certain information
   automatically:
     * the Internet Protocol (IP) address and the name of the host from
       which you access the Internet (i.e. 123.456.789.012), whether yours
       individually or provided as a proxy by your Internet Service
       Provider (ISP),
     * the browser type and version you are using to access the site,
     * the operating system and version you are running on your machine,
     * the date and time you access our site,
     * the pages you peruse (recorded by the text and graphics files that
       compose that page),
     * and, the Internet address of the Web site from which you linked
       directly to our site.

   We use the summary statistics to help us make our site more useful to
   visitors (such as assessing what information is of most and least
   interest to visitors) and for other purposes such as determining the
   site's technical design specifications and identifying system
   performance or problem areas.

   This information is NOT shared with anyone beyond the support staff for
   LANL Web sites, except as required for site security purposes, to
   ensure that LANL Web sites remain available to all users, and when
   required by law enforcement investigation. We use the information only
   as a source of anonymous statistical information, and no other attempts
   are made to identify individual users or their usage habits.
