http://www.foia.ucia.gov/rights.asp

   Central Intelligence Agency, Director of Central Intelligence Skip main
    CIA navigation. Targets Freedom of Information Act main navigation.

   CIA Home | Notices | Privacy | Security | Contact Us | Site Map | Index
                                  | Search

                                      .
        Electronic Reading Room (Freedom of Information Act) heading,
   superimposed on photo of American flag with the word Declassified over
                                    that
       Field of 5 stars Document search. Click for more search options
                        Click to submit search query.


                     Skip FOIA main navigation. Overview
                     How to file a FOIA Request
                     How to file a Privacy Act Request
                     Frequently Requested Records
                     Annual Reports
                     Your Rights
                     Special Collections

                                 Your Rights

                    The Freedom of Information Act (FOIA)
        The Freedom Of Information Act provides access to "reasonably
                       described" government records.

                            The Privacy Act (PA)
    The PA provides access to government records concerning you (that is,
        records indexed to your name) and regulates the government's
       collection, maintenance, and dissemination of your information.
                       The Executive Order 12958 (EO)
    Under this Executive Order the public can request review of specific
          documents for declassification and release to the public.

             Frequently requested records or Special Collections
      Agency records already declassified under the FOIA or the EO made
     available electronically to the public without cost at this site or
       prepared as unclassified and intended for public distribution.


                     Photograph of a Bald Eagle's head.

               Footer image, showing portion of American flag.

                             Privacy & Security
