http://www.boc.ca.gov/PressRel/GovRel3.htm


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




   California Victim Compensation and Government Claims Board Home Page
   Victim Application for Crime Victim Compensation
   Victim Compensation
   Government Claims
   Revenue Recovery and Compliance Branch
   Latest Public Notice
   Download VCGC Board Forms and Publications
   California State Employees Charitable Campaign
   Missing Children Reward Program
   Job Opportunities
   Send your comments to the VCGC Board
   Survey
   California State Seal


   CALIFORNIA VICTIM COMPENSATION AND GOVERNMENT CLAIMS BOARD



                                                             __________ search
                                                                (*)  My CA


   Press Release - Governor Davis' Office

   September 14, 2001
   GOVERNOR DAVIS SPONSORS LEGISLATION TO EXPAND VICTIM COMPENSATION TO
   FAMILIES
   Bill Would Send $1 Million to New York State Victim Compensation Fund
   Sacramento, CA - Governor Gray Davis today unveiled legislation that
   will expand the state's Victim Compensation Program to assist family
   members in California and New York who lost loved ones in Tuesday's
   terrorist attacks in New York and Washington D.C.
   "While we can never make them whole, we can help family members dealing
   with loss," Governor Davis said. "I am pleased that both the Senate and
   the Assembly are acting at lightening speed in a true bi-partisan
   spirit to pass the legislation I am proposing to expand this program to
   benefit the families of victims of this terrible act."
   This legislation, SB 551 by Senator Mike Machado (D-Linden), will allow
   the California Victim Compensation and Government Claims Board to add
   grandparents, grandchildren, mothers-in-law and fathers-in-law to the
   list of eligible family members that are able to receive state
   assistance when a family member is lost because they are a victim of
   crime. Also added will be family members who are California residents,
   even if the victim is from another state.
   In addition, the bill provides up to $10,000 in reimbursement for
   mental health counseling for members of the California urban search and
   rescue teams who were dispatched to the scene of the terrorist attacks.
   After the Oklahoma City bombing, several team members sought mental
   health counseling and were unable to be reimbursed from the Fund for
   these services.
   SB 551 also authorizes the California Victim Compensation and
   Government Claims Board to allocate $1 million to the State of New
   York's victim compensation program.
   "New York is part of our American family," Governor Davis continued.
   "Right now they are suffering an unspeakable loss. They need our help.
   We are 'one nation under God,' and it's our profound obligation as
   Americans to give them the help they need. That's what being an
   American is all about."
   The legislation is expected to pass the Assembly and Senate today.
   The toll-free number for information regarding California's Victims
   Compensation Fund is 1-800-777-9229. Hours of operation have been
   expanded to 8:00 a.m. - 9:00 p.m. Monday through Friday and from 9:00
   a.m. - 5:00 p.m. over the weekend.

                             Back to Top of Page
      2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
