http://safmc.noaa.gov/safmcweb/library/newsroom/nr-schedule-changes.html


[clogo.GIF]

                                            South Atlantic Fishery Management Council

For Immediate Release
October 5, 2001

                                                                        CONTACT: Kim Iverson
                                                                  Public Information Officer
                                                                                843/571-4366

   Meeting Cancellation Prompts Schedule Changes

   Due to the tragic events on September 11, 2001, the September meeting
   of the South Atlantic Fishery Management Council was cancelled. Many of
   the agenda items for the September meeting will be addressed when the
   Council meets again December 3-7, 2001 in Wrightsville Beach, North
   Carolina. In order to facilitate the full agenda in December, the
   Council will hold a meeting of its Snapper Grouper Committee and a
   joint meeting of its Executive and Finance Committees October 29-31,
   2001. In addition, a public scoping meeting will be held on October 29.
   The Council continues to seek applicants for openings on its advisory
   panels. Positions will be filled at the December meeting.

   October committee meetings planned to address proposed Marine Protected
   Areas & budget items
   The Council will hold a meeting of its Snapper Grouper Committee on
   October 29 and 30, 2001 at the Town and Country Inn, 2008 Savannah
   Highway, Charleston, SC; phone 843/571-1000. The Committee, consisting
   of current Council members, will meet from 1:30 p.m. until 5:00 p.m. on
   Monday, October 29 and again on October 30 from 8:30 a.m. until 5:00
   p.m. The Committee will meet to review recommendations from the Marine
   Protected Area (MPA) Committee and develop its own recommendations for
   the Council to consider at the December Council meeting in Wrightsville
   Beach, North Carolina.
   The Council is considering the use of Marine Protected Areas (MPAs) as
   a management tool to protect over-fished stocks of fish found in the
   snapper/grouper management complex. In August, the Council called a
   joint meeting of several of its advisory panels to discuss a proposed
   listing of possible sites for MPAs. Advisory panel (AP) members include
   recreational and commercial fishermen, charter boat operators, buyers,
   sellers, scientists, conservationists, and law enforcement personnel.
   During the joint meeting, over 50 members of the Council's Marine
   Protected Area AP, Snapper Grouper AP, Habitat AP, Coral AP, Law
   Enforcement AP and Wreckfish AP met to review and prioritize possible
   MPA sites. The Council is currently concentrating on protecting areas
   where deep-water species such as speckled hind, snowy grouper, warsaw
   grouper and golden tilefish are found. These slow growing, long-lived
   species are especially susceptible to fishing pressure. Recommendations
   from the advisory panel meeting are being used to guide the Committees
   as they develop recommendations for the full Council to consider. These
   recommendations will be included in a public hearing document for
   public comment. Two sets of public hearings regarding proposed MPA
   sites will be scheduled for 2002, beginning in late spring and again in
   the fall.

   A joint meeting of the Council's Executive and Finance Committees will
   be held from 8:30 a.m. until 1:00 p.m. on Wednesday, October 31. The
   Committees will address the Council's budget and operations plan for
   2002.

   Public scoping meeting
   A public scoping meeting will take place on Monday, October 29
   beginning at 6:00 p.m. The Council is asking for public input regarding
   two issues: (1) establishment of additional Habitat Areas of Particular
   Concern (HAPC) under the Coral Fishery Management Plan (FMP), and (2)
   the development of a comprehensive FMP Amendment to address a number of
   general fishery issues. These include permit renewal timeframes,
   operator permits, a consolidated controlled access system and the
   Atlantic Coast Cooperative Statistics Program's permits and reporting
   process.

   Advisory Panel Members Needed
   The Council continues to seek members to fill several vacancies on a
   variety of fishery management Advisory Panels (AP). Experienced and
   knowledgeable members of the public are being sought to serve on the
   panels and provide information and guidance in the development and
   implementation of fishery management plans. Members include
   recreational and commercial fishermen, conservationists and scientists.

   Advisory Panel members are appointed by the Council for a three-year
   period and generally meet no more than once or twice each year. Members
   are compensated for travel and per diem expenses for all meetings. New
   members are needed for the following positions: One open seat for the
   Calico Scallop AP; a FL commercial seat, a FL recreational seat and an
   at-large commercial seat on the Dolphin/Wahoo AP; four seats on the
   Golden Crab AP; two conservation seats (SC, GA), a GA recreational seat
   and a FL commercial seat on the Habitat & Environmental Protection AP;
   five commercial seats (NC, FL) and two recreational seats (NC, GA) on
   the Mackerel AP; a GA and FL seat on the Shrimp AP, several seats on
   the Rock Shrimp AP; a SC recreational seat and two commercial seats
   (SC, GA) on the Snapper Grouper AP and several seats on both the Spiny
   Lobster AP and Wreckfish AP.

   New AP members will be selected during the December Council meeting in
   Wrightsville Beach. Persons interesting in applying for these positions
   should contact the Council office at 843/571-4366 or visit the Council
   web site at www.safmc.noaa.gov for an application. Copies of the
   meeting agendas and scoping documents can be obtained by contacting the
   Council office.

   The South Atlantic Fishery Management Council (SAFMC) is responsible
   for the conservation and management of fish stocks from three to 200
    miles off the coasts of North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia and
                               east Florida.
