http://www.sale.hq.nasa.gov/feedbacksale.htm


   NASA Logo sale21298.jpg (14561 bytes) furniture at ksc.jpg (2778 bytes)
   lot14_small.jpg (2541 bytes)
   scrap metal.jpg (1746 bytes)

     NASA surplus sale Contents Feedback-NASA sales


   Feedback-NASA sales


   [Under Construction]

   Feedback on your rating of NASA sales and what we can do to reduce cost
   of conducting sales and or increase sales proceeds. However, the
   addition of the above information requires money and resources that we
   need to carefully montior based on the feedback from the potential
   buyers as to what you really want NASA to include on this homepage to
   cost effectively improve our sales. Therefor please email your
   suggestion or comments for improvement of this homepage or any praise
   or concerns you may have after participating in a sale of NASA owned
   surplus and/or exchange/sale personal property.

   Please follow the below links to comment on a NASA conducted sale of
   NASA surplus or exchange/sale personal property located at:
    1. NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland
    2. NASA Kennedy Space Center, Florida
    3. NASA Glenn Research Center, Cleveland, Ohio

   Please follow the below links to comment on a General Services
   Administration conducted sale of NASA surplus or exchange/sale personal
   property located at:
    A. NASA Johnson Space Center, Houston, Texas
    B. NASA White Sands Test Facility, Las Cruces, New Mexico
    C. NASA Michoud Assembly Facility,  New Orleans, Lousiana
    D. NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Bell, California
    E. NASA Ames Research Center, Moffet Field, California
    F. NASA Dryden Flight Research Center, Edwards, California
    G. NASA Stennis Space Center, Mississippi
    H. NASA Langley Research Center, Hampton, Virginia


   Mr. David B. Melton
   Manager, Warehousing & Disposal Programs
   National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
   Code JG, Room 6R30
   300 E Street, SW
   Washington, DC 20546-0001
   (202) 358-3235 Fax
   (202) 358-2302 Office



   Send mail to David.Melton@hq.nasa.gov with questions or comments about this
   web site.
   Last modified: January 12, 2000
