http://www.dva.wa.gov/master_plan.htm

                               [Webbanner.jpg]

   "Serving Those Who Served"

   Home
   Master Plan
   Agency Vision
   Legislative Updates
   Benefits
   PTSD
   Veteran Homes
   Special Events
   Hot Links
   Employment
   RCW

                           [LogoColnew_small.jpg]
                               WDVA Fast Facts

                             [WAflag_small.jpg]
                            Military and Veterans
                              Affairs Committee

                               [VAACicon.jpg]
                              Veterans Affairs
                             Advisory Committee

                              [VISON20LOGO.jpg]


Overview of Statewide Master Plan

   [mpcover2.jpg]

The Changing Veteran Population in Washington State

   There are presently 642,000 veterans living in Washington State, plus
   another one million family members of veterans. Approximately 80
   percent live west of the Cascade Mountains, with 50 percent residing in
   King, Snohomish and Pierce Counties. Changes expected in the veteran
   population over the next 20 years will have a dramatic impact on
   veteran service needs:


   [apasbul1.gif] The number of veterans aged 65 and over will increase by
   10 percent, while the number of veterans over age 85 will increase by
   226 percent. The growth in the elderly veteran population will increase
   the demand for long-term care services, including skilled nursing care.
   [apasbul1.gif] Vietnam-era veterans will continue to comprise nearly 40
   percent of the overall veteran population in 2020. The needs and
   problems associated with a small segment of the Vietnam-era population
   — homelessness, drug and alcohol addiction, and the ongoing
   psychological and physical effects of war trauma-induced Post Traumatic
   Stress Disorder — will remain an area of major service need.
   [apasbul1.gif] The number of female veterans in Washington State is
   projected to increase by 27 percent over the next 20 years, and veteran
   programs will need to be adapted to meet the needs of women.

Preferred Development Strategy for the State Veterans Homes in Western
Washington

     Retsilsitemap.jpg (117653 bytes) Click this thumbnail for a larger
     view.

   The State Veterans Homes at Orting and Retsil will be developed with
   unique missions and roles:

   [apasbul1.gif] Long-term care will be consolidated on the Retsil
   campus, beginning with the construction of a new 240-bed skilled
   nursing facility to replace current skilled beds at Retsil and Orting.
   In addition, the Retsil campus will continue to provide 100 beds of
   light nursing care, which will be upgraded over time through a
   combination of renovation and new construction.

     ORTsitemap.jpg (85242 bytes) Click this thumbnail for a larger
     view.

   [apasbul1.gif] The mission of the Orting campus will evolve from
   long-term care to one dedicated to providing comprehensive, short-term
   rehabilitation services to younger, mostly homeless veterans. The
   rehabilitation program will provide an array of services — health and
   mental health, drug and alcohol treatment and counseling, employment
   and life skills training — that will assist veterans who are committed
   to changing their lives and once again becoming productive members of
   society.

   The Orting campus will serve an ambulatory population with a range of
   limited medical needs, offering both independent and assisted living
   services. Once the rehabilitation program is fully established at
   Orting, the campus will serve up to 210 veterans at any one time, with
   an average length of stay of four to six months.

   The estimated capital cost for the new skilled nursing facility at
   Retsil is $47.3 million. Under the State Veterans Home construction
   program, the Federal VA would provide funding for 65 percent of the
   development costs, or about $31 million. The remaining $16 million
   would be the state’s obligation for. Capital costs for other Master
   Plan projects are estimated at between $17 and $22 million. Most of
   these projects will be undertaken in later phases of the Master Plan,
   and will be funded from a variety of federal, state and local sources.

   Under the preferred development strategy, overall staffing and annual
   operating costs for the combined campuses are expected to be equivalent
   to current levels. However, there will be a shift in staff levels and
   operating costs from Orting to Retsil, as long-term nursing care is
   consolidated at the Retsil campus.

   By consolidating long-term nursing care and modernizing facilities at
   Retsil, the agency will generate significant operating cost savings
   that will be reinvested to provide vital short-term comprehensive
   rehabilitation services to younger veterans at Orting. As a result, the
   agency will expand services at the State Veterans Homes while
   maintaining the current level of expenditures.

   The preferred development strategy will result in substantial economic
   benefits to the state of Washington. While reducing the overall costs
   for long-term care, the State Veterans Home at Retsil will continue to
   receive federal funding (both Federal VA per diems and private VA
   benefits) to offset the cost of care. Since this federal funding is not
   available to private nursing homes, the state will save approximately
   $1.3 million per year by having medicaid-eligible veterans receive
   skilled nursing care in the State Veterans Home rather than a private
   nursing home.

   The comprehensive rehabilitation program at Orting will help change the
   lives of veterans, while lessening the burden on government through
   reduced demands for public services such as corrections, health care
   and housing. Based on results achieved at successful rehabilitation
   programs such as the Federal VA Domiciliary Program in Oregon, the
   Orting program could result in a direct annual public cost savings of
   at least $3.9 million. Other benefits, such as contributions to state,
   federal and local taxes from increased income and spending, are real
   outcomes that are not included in this estimate.

Establishing a State Veterans Home in Eastern Washington

   The Washington State Department of Veterans Affairs (Agency) is
   committed to enhancing services to veterans in Eastern Washington. This
   will include the establishment of a State Veterans Home in the eastern
   part of the state, and the enhancement of other services such as
   short-term rehabilitation and development of a veterans cemetery.

   Three options are being considered for the establishment of a State
   Veterans Home in Eastern Washington:

   [apasbul1.gif] State operation of a federally-owned facility, with the
   most likely candidate being the nursing home facility at the Federal VA
   Medical Center in Spokane.
   [apasbul1.gif] State operation of an existing state-owned facility that
   could be adapted to use as a State Veterans Home.
   [apasbul1.gif] State ownership and operation of an existing community
   nursing home or homes. Ownership could occur through acquisition, or
   through a long-term lease with an option to purchase.

   The presence of a State Veterans Home in the eastern part of the state
   would serve a major unmet need and the use of an existing facility
   would not increase the number of nursing home beds in the region.
   Similar to the State Veterans Homes in Western Washington, the Home in
   Eastern Washington would be able to offset the cost of care with
   Federal VA funding that is not available to private nursing homes.
   Current analyses estimate the state would save between $275,000 and one
   million annually by having medicaid-eligible veterans cared for in a
   60-bed State Veterans Home in Eastern Washington, rather than in a
   community nursing home.

   Top

                     Commonly asked questions about the
                                 Master Plan

   Why is this being done?

     Upon reviewing the results of a 1998 feasibility study, the
     Legislature mandated the department analyze costs and benefits of
     consolidating home operations – including proposed alternative uses
     for the other campus if operations are consolidated.

   Why do we need a new facility?

     Most of the Homes’ buildings were constructed 50 to 80 years ago and
     do not meet earthquake and life-safety standards. Due to the age of
     these facilities, the department can no longer provide the quality
     of care the state’s veterans deserve.

   Why not build it at Orting?

     Pierce County prohibits development of critical facilities – 50 or
     more incapacitated resident patients – within volcanic hazard areas.
     Also, it is extremely unlikely the federal government would provide
     the 65-percent funding match if built within a volcanic hazard area.

   How much will this cost?

     Approximately $47 million by mid-point construction in 2004.
     Thirty-five percent – or approximately $16 million – will be paid by
     the state; Sixty-five percent – or approximately $32 million – will
     be paid by the federal VA.

   When will this happen?

     Completion of the new facility at Retsil will be from five to eight
     years.

     Right now, this is a concept. The department is gathering input and
     support from veterans, Home staff, residents, legislators and the
     governor. If the governor approves, the state portion of funding
     will be requested during the 2001 legislative session (Jan.-April).
     If state funding is approved, work will begin on obtaining the 65
     percent federal match. Full approval of funding is not expected
     until late 2001.

     Design, review, permitting and other legal requirements means the
     first shovel of dirt may be turned over in approximately two to
     three years.

   What will happen to the residents during construction and where will
   they eat?

     During construction, each resident will have a specific,
     individualized transition plan with the goal to have as little
     impact as possible on the residents’ lives and daily routines.

     Clearly, there are a number of critical quality-of-life issues which
     will need to be addressed, such as: Where will residents live and
     how will critical services – skilled nursing and assisted living –
     be maintained during construction?

     These questions will be answered during the next 12 months of the
     design phase, when WDVA will gather resident and staff input to
     minimize the impact on residents as much as possible.

     The current kitchen will not be torn down until the new facility is
     built.

   What will happen to staff at both Homes?

     Staff at Retsil will be transitioned into the new facility. They
     will also have the opportunity to work in the new rehabilitation
     program at the Soldiers Home.

     When taking into account the current 12 percent of annual staff
     turnover at Orting, the department anticipates minimal impact on
     current Soldiers Home staff. Those remaining will be afforded the
     opportunity to work in the new facility at Retsil, or they will
     receive additional skills through retraining and participate in the
     rehabilitative program at Orting.

     The department’s number one goal after addressing the residents’
     needs, is to invest in current staff.

   What will happen to Buildings #9 and #10 at Retsil?

     No immediate demolition of Building #9 is scheduled. It’s future
     will be considered at a later date. With all skilled nursing
     consolidated into the new building, Building #10 will house light
     nursing and/or assisted-living.

   What about new residents?

     Completion of the new facility is not expected for at least five to
     eight years, so potential new residents will be well-informed
     regarding the proposed changes, but will continue to be admitted
     under current procedures.

   What kind of programs will be offered in the rehabilitation program at
   the Soldiers Home?

     These programs will serve the state’s largest veteran population –
     the Vietnam-era veterans. Programs will include, but are not limited
     to:

     [apasbul1.gif] Intensive drug and alcohol rehabilitation
     [apasbul1.gif] Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and other mental
                    health services
     [apasbul1.gif] Job skills
     [apasbul1.gif] Transitional housing

   What will happen to current domicilary residents at both Homes?

     Dom residents at Orting will have the opportunity to enroll in the
     comprehensive rehabilitation program scheduled for the Soldiers
     Home. Dom residents at Retsil will be afforded the same opportunity
     and encouraged to do so. While residents will have a individualized
     transition plan in place, each resident currently residing in either
     Home will be assured of continued care.

   What about Eastern Washington?

     Providing service to Eastern Washington will be the number one
     priority in the agency’s master plan. The department is reviewing
     several options to operate in existing facilities. Concepts for
     service in Eastern Washington will be contained in the agency’s
     master plan document and this session, WDVA will be seeking
     legislative direction in providing those services.

   Top

VAAC and VLC Letters to the Governor

   November 20, 2000
   The Honorable Gary Locke, Governor
   State of Washington
   Second Floor, Legislative Building
   P.O. Box 40002
   Olympia, WA 98504-0002

   Dear Governor Locke:

   As the committee statutorily charged with advising you and your staff
   on veterans and military affairs, we would like to pledge our unanimous
   support for the Washington Department of Veterans Affairs Master Plan
   and the direction and leadership of the Washington State Department of
   Veterans Affairs.

   A recent study determined most buildings at the Washington Veterans
   Home and Washington Soldiers Home and Colony were functionally obsolete
   and in need of modernization and repairs in order to meet earthquake
   and life-safety requirements. In addition, we share the concern of many
   veterans’ organizations that comprehensive rehabilitative services are
   not available to younger veterans. And clearly, the lack of long-term
   care for veterans in Eastern Washington has reached a breaking point.
   When combining these three critical needs, it is abundantly clear the
   status quo is not an acceptable alternative to veterans, or members of
   this committee.

   As an attempt to address these concerns, the Legislature mandated the
   Washington Department of Veterans Affairs to:

   [apasbul1.gif] Forecast the future demand for nursing, assisted living,
   domiciliary and community-based rehabilitative care;
   [apasbul1.gif] Determine the most cost-effective role for the state to
   address the future demand;
   [apasbul1.gif] Analyze costs and benefits of consolidating Western
   Washington veterans home operations – including proposed alternative
   uses for the other campus if operations are consolidated;
   [apasbul1.gif] Explore options to provide skilled nursing and assisted
   living in Eastern Washington; and
   [apasbul1.gif] Assess alternatives for providing rehabilitative care to
   younger veterans.

   After careful review of the feasibility study results, the WDVA and its
   consultants, NBBJ, drafted a master plan which responds to these
   legislative mandates and addresses the critical needs of the statewide
   veteran population by: building a new, 240-bed skilled nursing facility
   at the Washington Veterans Home; expanding a comprehensive residential
   rehabilitation program at the Washington Soldiers Home and Colony; and
   meeting veterans’ number one priority by moving forward on a plan to
   establish long-term care beds in Eastern Washington.

   Governor, your Veterans Affairs Advisory Committee represents veteran
   organizations from throughout the state. Committee members have been
   intimately involved in the development of the plan and provided their
   unanimous vote at our last meeting. Additionally, the VAAC provided
   testimony to other stakeholder gatherings including a meeting of
   statewide VSO commanders on November 16, 2000. We have consensus! The
   veterans and the veterans’ service organizations support this plan.

   Sincerely,

   Oria Berndt, Chair
   Governor’s Veterans Affairs Advisory Committee

   [apasrule.gif]

   November 17, 2000
   The Honorable Gary Locke, Governor
   State of Washington
   Second Floor, Legislative Building
   P.O. Box 40002
   Olympia, WA 98504-0002

   Dear Governor Locke:

   On behalf of the Washington Veterans Legislative Coalition, I am
   writing to express unanimous support for the Washington Department of
   Veterans Affairs Master Plan.

   The Veterans Legislative Coalition – established in 1989 by a consensus
   of Veterans Service Organizations – works diligently with your office,
   the Legislature and the WDVA to ensure veterans and their families are
   supported and recognized through appropriate rule and law.
   Representation on the VLC is open to all nationally recognized VSOs.

   As the veteran population ages – and the Coalition has become more
   aware of the long-term care concerns brought to our attention by
   veterans – it has become increasingly apparent the Washington Veterans
   Home and the Washington Soldiers Home and Colony are in need of repair.
   Studies have shown many of the buildings are either functionally
   deficient, or do not meet certain earthquake and/or life-safety
   standards.

   We are also concerned over the need for rehabilitative services for the
   younger veteran population. Many of these veterans experience
   homelessness, unemployment, Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) and
   drug and/or alcohol addiction. It is our belief these veterans can be
   rehabilitated and again become productive members of our society.

   Additionally, veterans in Eastern Washington do not have access to the
   same long-term care services currently provided to those in Western
   Washington. This has long been a concern of ours and I understand you
   share this concern.

   In reviewing these issues, and working with the WDVA during the past
   several months, it is our belief the department’s proposed Master Plan
   not only addresses our immediate concerns, but also provides the vision
   and groundwork for critical veterans’ needs well into the future.

   Governor Locke, the Veterans Legislative Coalition values your
   leadership on issues important to the citizens of this state. As we
   offer our unanimous support for Director John King, the Washington
   Department of Veterans Affairs and this Master Plan, we believe this
   plan will provide you a tremendous opportunity to leave a lasting
   legacy with the veterans of this state.

   Sincerely,

   Dan Gogerty, Chair
   Veterans Legislative Coalition

   Top

   Hit Counter


                                [apasrule.gif]

       Home | News | Jobs | Publications | Contact  | Privacy Policy |
                                 Disclaimer

   Send mail to webmaster@dva.wa.gov with question or comments about this
                                    site.
                       Last modified: January 30, 2002
                                 Hit Counter

                              Access Washington

                                   © 2000
                       Department of Veterans Affairs
