http://www.nih.gov/about/hd/strategicplan.pdf

   NIH Strategic Research Plan to Reduce and Ultimately Eliminate Health
   Disparities The draft Trans-NIH Strategic Research Plan on Health
   Disparities has been developed by a Trans-NIH Working Group which
   consists of each NIH Institute and Center Director. The Working Group
   is co-chaired by the NIH Acting Deputy Director Dr. Yvonne Maddox and
   the NIAID Director Dr. Anthony Fauci. Ex-officio members of the Working
   Group are Dr. Ruth Kirschstein, the NIH Principal Deputy Director and
   Dr. John Ruffin, the NIH Associate Director for Minority Research. The
   Plan was developed through an open process with substantial public
   input, particularly from representatives of groups who
   disproportionately experience disparities in health. It describes the
   activities underway and planned to bring the full strength of NIH's
   research and training programs to bear on the challenge of eliminating
   domestic health disparities, increasing participation by minorities in
   clinical research, and increasing the number of minority clinical and
   basic medical scientists who are essential to the success of our
   efforts. NIH welcomes your comments and suggestions on the draft Plan.
   The comment period has been extended to February 23, 2001. Please send
   e-mail to ruffinj@od.nih.gov or write to: Dr. John Ruffin Associate
   Director Office of Research on Minority Health Office of the Director
   National Institutes of Health Building 1, Room 252 1 Center Drive
   Bethesda, MD 20892-2520 United States of America (301) 402-1366 (voice)
   (301) 402-7040 (fax) NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH STRATEGIC RESEARCH
   PLAN TO REDUCE AND ULTIMATELY ELIMINATE HEALTH DISPARITIES FISCAL YEARS
   2002-2006 DRAFT: October 6, 2000 U.S. Department of Health and Human
   Services NIH Strategic Research Plan to Reduce and Ultimately Eliminate
   Health Disparities Table of Contents Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Executive Summary . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 Introduction . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Scope of the Problem . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Federal Efforts to
   Address Health Disparities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 NIH's Role in the National
   Effort to Reduce and Ultimately Eliminate Health Disparities . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 Research . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 Advance understanding of the development
   and progression of diseases and disabilities that contribute to health
   disparities in minority populations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . 13 Develop new and improved approaches for detecting
   or diagnosing the onset or progression of diseases and disabilities
   that contribute to health disparities in minority populations . . . . .
   . . . 20 Develop new and improved approaches for preventing or delaying
   the onset or progression of diseases and disabilities that contribute
   to health disparities in minority populations . . . . . . . . . . 21
   Develop new and improved approaches for treating diseases and
   disabilities that contribute to health disparities in minority
   populations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . 23 Research Infrastructure . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . 25 Support research training and career development . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
   Provide support for institutional resources (extramural and intramural)
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29 Public Information and
   Community Outreach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31 Develop research-based information
   resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . 31 Communicate research-based information to increase
   public awareness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34 Transfer
   knowledge to health care providers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35 Conclusion . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37 Appendix . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38 Institute,
   Center, and OD Program Office Abbreviations and Web Site Addresses . .
   . . . . . . . . . . 38 Foreword Despite notable improvements in the
   overall health of the Nation in the last two decades, there continue to
   be striking disparities in the burden of illness and death experienced
   by African Americans, Hispanics, Native Americans, Alaska Natives,
   Asians, and Pacific Islanders. Overcoming such persistent and
   perplexing health disparities, and promoting health for all Americans,
   particularly those who have suffered most, ranks as one of our Nation's
   foremost challenges. The mission of the National Institutes of Health
   (NIH) is to improve the Nation's health by uncovering new knowledge
   about the prevention, detection, diagnosis, and treatment of disease
   and disability. Our mission is, thus, central to the expanding national
   efforts to address differences in the incidence, prevalence, mortality,
   and burden of diseases and other adverse health conditions that exist
   among specific population groups in the United States. To this end, the
   NIH developed this five-year NIH Strategic Research Plan to Reduce and
   Ultimately Eliminate Health Disparities. This strategic plan sets forth
   NIH's goals for reducing and, ultimately, eliminating health
   disparities among racial and ethnic minorities and describes some of
   the many initiatives that will be expanded or created to meet these
   goals. All of us who have been privileged to participate in this age of
   scientific discovery have a responsibility to ensure that the new
   knowledge generated in our laboratories and our clinics benefits all of
   our citizens and all of our communities. Our aim at the NIH is to
   promote the development and transfer of research-based information from
   biomedical, behavioral, and social sciences for use by health
   professionals, communities, and others in working toward the
   elimination of health disparities. The development of this NIH
   Strategic Research Plan to Reduce and Ultimately Eliminate Health
   Disparities serves as a public reaffirmation of NIH's commitment to
   bringing the full strength of its research and training programs to
   bear on the goal of reducing, and ultimately eliminating, domestic
   health disparities. Each Institute and Center Director at the NIH has
   personally pledged his or her support for this endeavor. While the
   diversity of the American population remains one of our Nation's
   greatest assets, the profound discrepancies in health status described
   here represents a challengeto better understand these disparities, and
   to reduce and ultimately eliminate them. Ruth L. Kirschstein, M.D. John
   Ruffin, Ph.D. Principal Deputy Director Associate Director National
   Institutes of Health Office of Research on Minority Health, NIH 1 NIH
   Strategic Research Plan to Reduce and Ultimately Eliminate Health
   Disparities Executive Summary While the overall health of the Nation
   has improved over the last two decades, there continue to be striking
   disparities in the burden of illness and death experienced by African
   Americans, Hispanics, Native Americans, Alaska Natives, Asians, and
   Pacific Islanders. The most striking disparities include shorter life
   expectancy as well as higher rates of cardiovascular disease, cancer,
   infant mortality, birth defects, asthma, diabetes, stroke, sexually
   transmitted diseases, and mental illness. These disparities are
   believed to be the result of the complex interaction among biological
   factors, the environment, and specific health behaviors. Inequalities
   in income and education also appear to underlie many health disparities
   in the United States. Disparities in income and education levels are
   associated with differences in the occurrence of illness and death,
   including heart disease, diabetes, obesity, elevated blood lead level,
   and low birth weight. It is an imperative that the nation make a
   concerted effort to reduce health disparities. To this end, the
   National Institutes of Health (NIH) has a unique and central role in
   this endeavor. By supporting and conducting medical research, the NIH
   seeks new knowledge about disease and disabilitynew knowledge that has
   and will continue to lead to innovative diagnostics, treatments, and
   preventive strategies to reduce, and even eliminate, health
   disparities. A comprehensive national effort to prevent disease,
   promote health, and deliver appropriate care to racial and ethnic
   minoritiesall of which are necessary to achieving the goal of reducing,
   and even eliminating, these disparitiescannot, however, be accomplished
   by NIH-supported research alone. Federal, State and local governments
   each have their roles to play, as do private sector healthcare
   providers and payers, as well as patients and their families. In order
   to make substantial inroads in the reduction of health disparities, the
   nation must, for example, monitor the health status of different
   populations; use the information gained from research to change the
   delivery of services; and ensure the distribution of these services
   across all segments of our population. Recognizing the importance of
   sustaining and enhancing its commitment to improve minority health, the
   NIH will focus its initial efforts on specific racial/ethnic minority
   populations, including African Americans, Asians, Pacific Islanders,
   Hispanics, Native Americans, and Alaska Natives. Each Institute and
   Center and three program offices in the Office of the Director of the
   NIH has developed its own mission-specific strategic plan that sets
   forth in greater detail ongoing and planned efforts to reduce health
   disparities among these populations. These plans can be found on the
   NIH Home Page at:
   http://healthdisparities.nih.gov/working/institutes.html The NIH has
   also developed this five-year NIH Strategic Research Plan to Reduce and
   Ultimately Eliminate Health Disparities. This plan sets forth NIH's
   objectives for reducing and, ultimately, eliminating health disparities
   among racial and ethnic minorities and describes some of the many
   initiatives that will be expanded or created to meet these goals. The
   plan is focused on three major areas: research; research
   infrastructure; and public information and community outreach. 2
   Research to advance our understanding of the development and
   progression of diseases and disabilities that contribute to health
   disparities in minority populations is central to this effort. For
   example, the NIH will strengthen and expand research on the
   epidemiology and risk factors related to a variety of diseases and
   conditions that disproportionately affect minority populations,
   including infant mortality, stroke, cardiovascular disease, hepatitis
   C, cancer, drug abuse and addiction, sexually transmitted diseases,
   oral diseases and disorders, and glaucoma, among others. Research
   efforts will also be directed to the role of the environment and
   socioeconomic status in health disparities. Our efforts will also
   include studies on biologic variations in the etiology and treatment of
   diseases, such as diabetes, hypertension, alcoholism, and lupus.
   Efforts to develop new or improved approaches for detecting or
   diagnosing the onset or progression of diseases and disabilities that
   contribute to health disparities in minority populations will involve,
   for example, research on prostate cancer and mental and language
   disorders. New or improve approaches for preventing or delaying the
   onset or progression of diseases and disabilities in minority
   populations will be explored as they relate to diseases such as
   diabetes, obesity, dental caries, asthma, and HIV vaccine development,
   among others. Finally, new or improved treatments will, for example, be
   directed at mental illness, cancer survivorship, end of life/palliative
   care, tuberculosis, diet and hypertension, and alternative medicine.
   Research infrastructure objectives will include efforts to support
   research training and career development such as support for doctoral
   Dissertation Research and Travel Awards, Minority Access to Research
   Careers (MARC) awards, Clinical Research Training, Short-term Training
   for Minority Students, the Minority Undergraduate Biomedical Education
   Program, and the Minority Medical School Research Program, among
   others. Our infrastructure initiatives will also include institutional
   support for extramural and intramural resources such as strengthening
   science curricula, enhancing capacity of minority and underserved
   institutions to participate in communications and networking
   technologies, training minority clinical trial investigators,
   recruiting minorities into clinical trials, and expanding Institutional
   Development Awards, and increasing minority representation in peer
   review. In the arena of public information and community outreach, our
   objectives include plans to develop research-based information
   resources, such as the NIH Hispanic Communications Initiative,
   internet-based information resources, the Health Information National
   Trends Survey, and information clearinghouses, among others. Efforts to
   communicate research-based information to increase public awareness are
   exemplified in ongoing and new programs, such as the National Diabetes
   Education Program, Environmental Justice Partnerships for
   Communications, programs on public input/policy on genetic research,
   the Asian and Pacific Islander Project, and Science for the Lay Public.
   Efforts to transfer knowledge to health care providers will include the
   Urban Clinical Center and Tuberculosis Trials, and the National Kidney
   Diseases Education Program, and the National Eye Health Education
   Program, among others. All of these many initiatives cut across a
   variety of areas representing myriad diseases, disabilities, and
   organizational boundaries. They represent a trans-agency commitment to
   exploring and solving many of the health disparities problems our
   citizens and our Nation face. Much needs to be done, but we are
   confident that the medical research community working with, and
   informed by, the public, patients, health care providers, policymakers,
   and others will continue to develop new knowledge that leads to
   improvements in the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of diseases
   and disabilities that contribute to health disparities among racial and
   ethnic minorities. 3 Introduction specific racial and ethnic minority
   populations: African Americans, Asians, Pacific Islanders, Hispanics,
   Native Americans, and Alaska O Natives. The scope of the problem of
   health ne of the central features of contemporary disparities among
   minorities, the specific America is that it is increasingly diverse.
   objectives for solving the problem, and the means This diversity
   remains one of our Nation's for advancing those objectives are the
   substance greatest assets. However, there is compelling of this
   strategic plan. evidence that U.S. minority populations suffer from
   increasing differences in the incidence, The initiatives described here
   represent but a prevalence, mortality, and burden of diseases and
   subset of the broad range of activities that the other adverse health
   conditions. These health NIH will undertake to eliminate health
   disparities. disparities include shorter overall life expectancy, Each
   Institute and Center and three program higher rates of cardiovascular
   disease, cancer, offices in the Office of the Director of the NIH
   infant mortality, birth defects, asthma, diabetes, has developed its
   own mission-specific strategic stroke, sexually transmitted diseases,
   oral plan that sets forth in greater detail ongoing and diseases and
   disorders, and mental disorders, planned efforts to reduce health
   disparities among among others. Contributing factors include racial and
   ethnic minorities. These plans can be reduced access to health care,
   increased risk of found on the NIH Home Page at: disease and disability
   due to occupation or http://www.nih.gov. exposure, and increased risk
   of illness due to underlying biological, socioeconomic, ethnic, or
   familial factors; cultural values, and education. Scope of the Problem
   As part of our mission to uncover new knowledge that will lead to
   better health for everyone, the National Institutes of Health (NIH)
   supports research to understand the epidemiology of Nationally, racial
   and ethnic minorities are projected to grow from 28 percent of the
   diseases, to distinguish their causes, and to U.S. population in 1998
   to nearly 40 percent in develop innovative diagnostics, treatments, and
   2030. A strengthened commitment to research preventive strategies to
   reduce, and ultimately to that seeks to better understand health
   disparities eliminate, health disparities. We have defined and to
   develop new diagnostic, treatment, and health disparities as:
   differences in the incidence, prevention strategies to overcome them is
   a prevalence, mortality, and burden of diseases and sound investment
   for the health and well-being of other adverse health conditions that
   exist among our citizens and our Nation. specific population groups in
   the United States. Research on health disparities related to Although
   observations and anecdotes can provide socioeconomic status is also
   encompassed in the us with clues about health disparities, it is only
   definition. With the issuance of this Strategic through rigorous
   population and epidemiologic Research Plan, NIH began using a different
   research that the health care community can definition of health
   disparities than it had discern where disparities exist, define the
   scope previously. The change in definition has resulted of the problem,
   and then identify and evaluate in a change in the funding that NIH is
   reporting new approaches to reduce, and even eliminate, as focused on
   health disparities. them. What follows are selected data that
   illustrate the magnitude and breadth of health The NIH is focusing its
   initial attention on the disparities among various racial and ethnic
   health status, including socioeconomic factors, of subpopulations.
   These data provide a landscape 4 for the task ahead. The challenge for
   the NIH, Asthma. Asthma, which is one of the major and the Nation, is
   to do our best to identify, better causes of illness and disability,
   increased in understand, diagnose, treat, and even prevent prevalence
   by 72 percent from 1982 to 1994 these disparities. among young people
   under age 18. Despite the fact that asthma is only slightly more
   prevalent in Infant Mortality. Infant mortality is an African American
   children than in Caucasian important measure of a nation's health and a
   children, African American children experience worldwide indicator of
   health status. Despite a more severe disability and more frequent 16
   percent overall decline in the rate of infant hospitalization.
   mortality in the U.S. over the last decade, the infant mortality rate
   remains twice as high among Fetal Alcohol Syndrome (FAS). FAS is a
   African Americans as compared to Caucasians, preventable condition
   which is six times more even when controlling for socioeconomic
   factors. prevalent among African Americans than Native American and
   Alaska Native infants also Caucasians. Some Native American tribes have
   have a death rate almost double that of 33 times the incidence of FAS
   found in Caucasians. Caucasians. This often devastating syndrome can
   lead to life-long neurological, behavioral, and Maternal Mortality and
   Morbidity. The cognitive deficits that prevent normal learning and
   disparities in U.S. maternal mortality and socialization. It can also
   be associated with morbidity are also great. Maternal mortality rates
   growth deficiency, organ abnormalities, and other in the U.S. have
   decreased dramatically since the physical malformations. 1950s.
   However, as compared to Caucasians, the mortality rate remains four
   times higher Heart Disease. Despite impressive progress in among
   African American mothers and 1.6 times reducing cardiovascular
   mortality over the past higher for other racial groups. These deaths,
   several decades, there still exists a which have a profound effect on
   the family, are disproportionate burden of death and disability often
   preventable. Many factors influence from cardiovascular disease in
   minority and low- maternal morbidity in minority populations. For
   income populations. For example, the prevalence example, African
   American women develop of coronary heart disease in African Americans
   uterine fibroids up to two to three times more has increased steadily
   since the early 1970s, with frequently than Caucasian women. Such
   fibroids coronary heart disease mortality 40 percent are also often
   overlooked as a source of lost higher for African Americans than
   Caucasians. productivity and significant health care costs. Similarly,
   fewer African Americans survive severe cardiomyopathy as compared to
   Poverty and Child Health. In 1996, African Caucasiansa difference which
   is attributed to American and Hispanic children were four times both
   biological and socioeconomic factors. more likely to live in poverty
   than Caucasian children. These disadvantaged children Stroke. Stroke is
   the third leading cause of experience a disproportionate array of
   health death in the U.S., killing approximately 150,000 problems,
   including high rates of low birth weight, Americans every year. The
   incidence of stroke contagious diseases, obesity, exposure to is
   disproportionately high in African Americans, hazardous substances, and
   childhood injury and where the mortality rate is nearly 80 percent
   death. They are also at greater risk for higher than in Caucasians.
   developmental and learning delays, as well as social, emotional, and
   behavioral problems. Sickle Cell Anemia. This inherited and deadly
   disease of the blood is most common among 5 those whose ancestors come
   from Africa, the than their Caucasian counterparts to contract Middle
   East, the Mediterranean basin, and India. AIDS. In fact, one in 12
   African Americans carries the sickle cell trait. In the U.S., it
   primarily affects Epilepsy. There is new evidence that the African
   Americans, about 72,000 of whom have incidence of epilepsy is 50
   percent higher in the disease. Sickle cell disease has serious African
   American than Caucasian populations in consequences. For example, it is
   the most some communities. This disparity has been important cause of
   stroke in African American attributed to socioeconomic differences and
   other children. factors including nutrition, exposure to violence,
   reduced health infrastructure, and altered access Cancer. Cancer is the
   second most common to medical care. cause of mortality in the U.S. In
   the year 2000, about 1.2 million cases are expected to be Type 2
   Diabetes. Diabetes affects nearly 16 diagnosed, with 552,200 Americans
   dying from million Americans and leads to more than 300,000 the
   disease. Many minority groups suffer deaths annually. It is also the
   leading cause of disproportionately from cancer, and disparities end
   stage kidney disease, peripheral neuropathy, exist in both mortality
   and incidence rates. For adult blindness, and amputation. More than 90
   example, African Americans have both a higher percent of those affected
   have type 2 diabetes, overall incidence and death rate than any other
   which is disproportionately manifested in minority racial or ethnic
   group. The death rate from groups. The prevalence of diabetes in
   African stomach cancer is substantially higher among Americans is
   nearly 70 percent higher than in Asian and Pacific Islanders, including
   Native Caucasians. Native Americans, Hispanics, Hawaiians, than among
   other populations. African Americans, and some Asian Americans
   Vietnamese women in the U.S. have a cervical and Pacific Islanders,
   including Japanese cancer incidence rate that is five times greater
   Americans, Samoans, and Native Hawaiians, are than Caucasian women, and
   African American at particularly high risk for development of type 2
   and Hispanic women have higher cervical cancer diabetes. Most
   strikingly, diabetes prevalence death rates than the overall U.S.
   population. rates among American Indians are two to five times those of
   Caucasians, with the Pima tribe of Mental Health. Disease burden
   associated with Arizona experiencing one of the highest rates of mental
   disorders falls disproportionately on ethnic diabetes in the world.
   minority populations. Native American and Alaska Natives not only
   suffer disproportionately End Stage Renal Disease. A major public from
   depression, but this population also health problem in the U.S. is
   end-stage renal experiences higher rates of suicide. In African
   disease. There are striking racial and ethnic American youth aged
   15-19, suicide rates have differences in the incidence and prevalence
   of increased 105 percent since 1980a rate of this disease. In 1997, the
   incidence rates were increase that far exceeds the increase in rates
   for 218 per million population in Caucasians, as Caucasian youth.
   compared to 873 in African Americans, and 586 in Native Americans and
   Alaska Natives. Drug Use. While drug use is generally no higher among
   minority groups than among the general Liver Disease. Cirrhosis of the
   liver is population, African Americans, Native responsible for
   approximately 25,000 deaths in the Americans, Alaska Natives, and
   Hispanics are U.S., at least half of which are attributable to more
   likely than Caucasians to die from drug- alcohol. In 1992, the death
   rate in alcohol-related induced death. African American and Hispanic
   cirrhosis among African American males was injecting drug users also
   appear to be more likely 73.8 percent greater than that among Caucasian
   6 males. Alcoholic liver disease and hepatitis C are one that affects
   minorities disproportionately. also leading causes of end-stage liver
   disease in For example, in 1998, 75 percent of active the U.S. The
   hepatitis C virus is a blood-borne tuberculosis cases were reported in
   racial and agent that infects cells of the liver and affects 3.9 ethnic
   minorities due largely to a combination of million Americans. African
   Americans are problems related to urban poverty, overcrowded infected
   with hepatitis C virus at twice the rate of living conditions, HIV
   infection, and inadequate non-minority populations and tend to be less
   treatment and/or compliance with tuberculosis responsive to therapy.
   therapy. Although constituting only 11 percent of the total population
   in 1996, Hispanics accounted HIV and AIDS. HIV and AIDS continue to for
   20 percent of the new cases of tuberculosis. affect minorities
   disproportionately. Of all U.S. New cases of tuberculosis are also
   higher in cases reported to the Centers for Disease Control Asians and
   Pacific Islanders living in the U.S. and Prevention (CDC) in 1998, 45
   percent were than in Caucasians. among African Americans, 33 percent
   among Caucasians, 20 percent among Hispanics, and Oral Health. Most
   oral diseases and conditions, less than 1 percent among Asians and
   Pacific including oral and pharyngeal cancer and cleft Islanders and
   Native Americans and Alaska lip/palate, dental caries, periodontal
   diseases are Natives. The rate of new AIDS cases reported borne by
   racial and ethnic minorities. Oral and in 1998 per 100,000 population
   was 81.9 among pharyngeal cancers are the fourth most common African
   Americans, 34.7 among Hispanics, 8.4 cancer in African American males
   and these among Caucasians, 9.4 among Native Americans cancers are less
   likely to be diagnosed at and Alaska Natives, and 4.1 among Asians and
   localized stages of disease compared with Pacific Islanders. HIV
   incidence is growing at a Caucasians. Untreated dental caries and
   greater rate in women than in men, particularly peridontal disease are
   twice as prevalent in among minority women. The proportion of new
   African American and Hispanic adolescents and AIDS cases among women
   more than tripled adults as compared to Caucasians in these age from
   1985 to 1998, from 7 percent to 23 percent. groups. In the U.S., by the
   end of 1998, more than 77 percent of women infected with the AIDS virus
   Vision Disorders. Primary open-angle were from minority groups, with 57
   percent glaucoma is an insidious progressive neuropathy African
   American and 20 percent Hispanic. that, if left untreated, leads to
   irreversible blindness. It is estimated that as many as 3 Sexually
   Transmitted Diseases. The current million Americans have the disease
   and as many sexually transmitted disease epidemic in the U.S. as
   120,000 are blind. Glaucoma is the number disproportionately affects
   minorities. For one cause of blindness in African Americans. example,
   in 1997, the rate of gonorrhea remained Rates of blindness due to
   primary open-angle 31 times greater among African Americans than
   glaucoma in African Americans are nearly six Caucasians, and 3 times
   greater for Hispanics. times higher than the rates for the Caucasian
   This disparity is particularly significant in light of population,
   reflecting not only an increased rate of recent studies that indicate
   that sexually disease, but also more severe disease. transmitted
   diseases such as chlamydia, gonorrhea, trichomoniasis, genital herpes,
   syphilis, Hearing Disorders. Otitis media, or middle ear and chancroid
   increase the risk of HIV infection, is the most common cause for acute
   transmission by at least three- to five-fold. care visits by children
   to physicians, costing several billion dollars annually in the U.S.
   Native Tuberculosis. In the U.S., tuberculosis has re- American infants
   have one of the highest rates of emerged as a serious public health
   problem, and otitis media in our countryan infection which can 7 lead
   to serious disabilities, such as permanent hearing deficits, reading
   disorders, and language delays, as well as increased risk of more
   serious infection such as meningitis. Smoking and Tobacco Usage.
   According to the Global Burden of Disease Study, commissioned by the
   World Bank, smoking- related illnesses will be one of the major
   contributors to the premature death and disability worldwide in the
   coming decades. Disparities in tobacco use exist among certain racial
   and ethnic populations. For example, Native Americans and Alaska
   Natives are more likely to smoke than other racial and ethnic groups,
   with considerable variations in percentages by Tribe. Osteoarthritis.
   African Americans have a higher risk than Caucasians of both bilateral
   knee osteoarthritis and hip osteoarthritis. In African Americans,
   obesity is a more important risk factor for bilateral knee
   osteoarthritis than in Caucasians. Lupus. Lupus is estimated to affect
   239,000 Americans. The condition often starts between the ages of 15
   and 44, and can affect many parts of the body, including the skin,
   kidneys, heart, lungs, blood vessels, and brain. Lupus is three times
   more common in African American women and the mortality rate in this
   population is three times higher than that of Caucasian women. Lupus is
   also more common in women of Hispanic, Asian, and Native American
   descent than in Caucasians. Scleroderma. The hallmark of this
   autoimmune disorder is widespread hardening of the skin, which can
   involve tissues in the lungs, heart, kidneys, intestinal tract,
   muscles, and joints. In severe cases, the disorder can be fatal. This
   disorder is particularly prevalent in Native American women. Although
   the cause is unknown, researchers believe both environmental and
   biologic factors play a role in disease development. 8 9 Federal
   Efforts to Address Health HHS Initiative to Eliminate Racial and
   Disparities Ethnic Disparities in Health 1. Infant Mortality Because of
   the profound health disparities 2. Cancer Screening & Management that
   exist between and among different 3. Cardiovascular Disease racial and
   ethnic groups, the Federal Government is engaged in a number of key 4.
   Diabetes initiatives aimed at addressing these disparities. 5. HIV
   Infection/AIDS 6. Immunization One America in the 21st Century: The
   President's Initiative on Race seeks to overcome racial divisions in
   our society. One of NIH's Role in the National Effort the initiatives
   in this effort is to reduce health disparities among racial and ethnic
   minorities by, to Reduce and Ultimately for example, improving the
   health-care Eliminate Health Disparities infrastructure and removing
   obstacles to the delivery of, and access to, health care among these
   populations. Many Federal Departments and Agencies play an important
   role in the national effort to eliminate Complementing this is Healthy
   People 2010, a health disparities among racial and ethnic minorities.
   national health promotion and disease prevention These roles range from
   monitoring health status initiative which sets forth the Nation's
   health among different population groups; supporting and objectives for
   the 21st century, including a major conducting research to investigate
   the basis for goal of eliminating health disparities among these
   differences and develop new or improved different segments of the
   population. These prevention strategies, diagnostics, and treatments;
   include differences that occur by gender, race or using the information
   gained from research to ethnicity, education or income, disability,
   living in develop evidence-based guidance for preventive rural
   localities, or sexual orientation. Like its and treatment services; and
   providing support for predecessor initiatives, Healthy People 2010 the
   provision of these services. While NIH funded was developed through a
   broad consultation research has and continues to yield information that
   process, built upon the best scientific is important to addressing the
   complex and vexing information, and designed to measure progress
   problem of disparities in health status among racial over time. NIH
   Institutes and Centers are the and ethnic minorities, it is but a part
   of the lead or co-lead agencies for 12 of the 28 focus aggregate effort
   to prevent disease, promote health, areas of Healthy People 2010. and
   deliver appropriate care to racial and ethnic minoritiesall of which
   are necessary to achieving The Department of Health and Human Services
   the goal of eliminating these disparities. (DHHS) also launched an
   Initiative to Eliminate Racial and Ethnic Disparities in NIH occupies a
   unique place in the Federal effort Health to improve prevention of
   disease, to eliminate health disparities among racial and promotion of
   health, and delivery of care to ethnic minorities. NIH works with the
   public, these populations. The six areas DHHS chose health care
   providers, scientists, and policymakers for particular attention are
   listed below. to identify the researchable issues; develops the
   research plan to address these issues; and supports and conducts a
   broad range of studies in this area. 10 These include epidemiology;
   biological, Acting Director of NIH established a trans-NIH behavioral,
   and social science research; as well Working Group on Health
   Disparities that includes as health services research. In addition, NIH
   the Institute and Center (IC) Directors, the Director provides support
   for the infrastructure that of the Office of AIDS Research (OAR); and
   the underpins the research enterprise, such as Associate Directors of
   the Office of Behavioral training and instrumentation. The NIH carries
   and Social Sciences Research (OBSSR); the out public information and
   community outreach Office of Disease Prevention (ODP); and the to
   communicate research findings to individuals, Office of Research on
   Women's Health (ORWH) organizations, and other entities who can put the
   as its members. Each IC and the OBSSR, ODP, results into practice. and
   ORWH were charged with developing a mission-specific strategic plan
   that sets forth in The NIH also continues its commitment to the greater
   detail ongoing and future efforts to reduce inclusion of women and
   racial and ethnic health disparities among racial and ethnic
   minorities. minority groups and their subpopulations in These plans
   were prepared in consultation with the research, consistent with the
   NIH Guidelines on public, professional and patient advocacy groups, the
   Inclusion of Women and Minorities as Institute Advisory Councils, and
   the scientific Subjects in Clinical Research. Because the community;
   they can be found on the Institute and ultimate aim of research is to
   provide scientific Office home pages that are listed in the Appendix.
   evidence which informs health policy or standards of care, it is
   imperative to determine The trans-NIH Working Group on Health whether
   the intervention or therapy being studied Disparities was also charged
   with developing a affects women or men or members of minority trans-NIH
   Plan to Address Health Disparities, groups and their subpopulations
   differently. To which would be cleared by the Acting Director, this
   end, the NIH guidelines help to ensure that NIH, and the Associate
   Director, Office of NIH-supported biomedical and behavioral Research on
   Minority Health (ORMH). This Plan research involving human subjects is
   be carried draws on health disparities plans of the NIH out in a manner
   sufficient to elicit relevant Institutes, Centers, and relevant OD
   offices. The information about individuals of both genders and Plan is
   not a compilation of all the activities of all of diverse racial and
   ethnic groups and, in the case the relevant NIH entities. It does,
   however, of clinical trials, to examine differential effects aggregate
   numerous programs and activities on such groups. NIH will continue to
   ensure conducted across the agency and provides the that all clinical
   trials that are funded by the reader with an understanding of the
   cross-cutting agency adhere to the NIH Guidelines. nature of disease
   and scientific discovery. The Plan is focused on three major areas:
   1)Research; 2) Research Infrastructure; and 3) Public The NIH Approach
   to Addressing Information and Community Outreach. Health Disparities
   With regard to research, the Plan outlines our ongoing and future
   efforts to support and conduct T research that is multifaceted, taking
   into account all he NIH has long been committed to possible
   explanations for why health disparities addressing and reducing health
   disparities. might exist, from the molecular to the population The NIH
   is comprised of twenty-five Institutes levels. Expanded and new
   research efforts will and Centers (ICs), along with other program focus
   on understanding the development and offices in the Office of the
   Director (OD). In progression of disease that contributes to health an
   effort to ensure that all of our citizens benefit disparities, and the
   development of new or from the advances in medical research, the 11
   improved approaches for preventing, detecting, diagnosing, or treating
   disease and disability. Success in this critical endeavor will require
   a robust and stable research infrastructure. This infrastructure must
   include training programs across the country, at the NIH campus in
   Bethesda, Maryland, and at other NIH locations in the U.S., as well as
   programs to enhance research capacity at minority institutions. It must
   also include a peer review system prepared to evaluate the quality of
   grant applications relevant to health disparities. Communicating the
   scientific and health information gained from research into health
   disparities is also paramount. These efforts extend beyond
   dissemination of the results of research to other scientists. It must
   include the transmission of all information that may improve the health
   of minorities to the general public, patients, advocacy groups, health
   care providers, media, and policymakers. This includes comprehensive
   and aggressive outreach to those groups whom the research is intended
   to help and their health care providers. And these messages must be
   tailored to the communities at highest risk for the adverse
   consequences of the health disparity in question. While NIH's efforts
   to date have been strong, we need to further strengthen and expand our
   efforts to produce health information that is culturally appropriate
   and ensure that it is disseminated to the appropriate communities.
   Finally, it is critically important to develop methods to assess the
   effectiveness of these communication efforts. NIH has identified
   specific objectives in each of these areas: research; infrastructure;
   and public information and community outreach (see Table 1). Examples
   of ongoing and proposed initiatives to achieve these objectives are
   described below. In addition, as noted previously, further information
   about each of the initiatives can be found on the web sites listed in
   the Appendix. 12 13 Table 1 NIH Strategic Research Plan to Reduce and
   Ultimately Eliminate Health Disparities GOAL: TO REDUCE AND ULTIMATELY
   ELIMINATE HEALTH DISPARITIES AMONG RACIAL AND ETHNIC MINORITIES.
   Research Objectives 1. Advance understanding of the development and
   progression of diseases and disabilities that contribute to health
   disparities in minority populations. 2. Develop new or improved
   approaches for detecting or diagnosing the onset or progression of
   diseases and disabilities that contribute to health disparities in
   minority populations. 3. Develop new or improved approaches for
   preventing or delaying the onset or progression of diseases and
   disabilities that contribute to health disparities in minority
   populations. 4. Develop new or improved approaches for treating
   diseases and disabilities that contribute to health disparities in
   minority populations. Research Infrastructure Objectives 1. Support
   research training and career development 2. Provide support for
   institutional resources (extramural and intramural). Public Information
   and Community Outreach 1. Develop research-based information resources
   2. Communicate research-based information to increase public awareness
   3. Transfer knowledge to health care providers 14 Research Selected
   Examples of Research Initiatives by Objective Avariety of studies
   conducted at the population 1. Advance understanding of the development
   level have yielded important information and progression of diseases
   and disabilities about gender, racial, and ethnic differences in that
   contribute to health disparities in disease morbidity and mortality.
   These studies minority populations. have also raised intriguing
   questions about the relative roles of biology, behavior, environment,
   Research on normal biological processes and how and socioeconomic
   status in human health and they malfunction in disease and disability
   provides disease. For example, there is a striking and the foundation
   for disease-oriented investigations well-documented relationship
   between that ultimately lead to new methods for socioeconomic status,
   health, and longevity. diagnosing, treating, and preventing disease and
   However, while economic resources are an disability in different
   populations. This requires important determinant of access to quality
   health an understanding of how living systems operate at care, they are
   insufficient to explain individual both a "micro" levelthe structure
   and function of health outcomes. Factors such as early childhood
   proteins, nucleic acids (DNA and RNA), experiences, the cumulative
   effects of prolonged carbohydrates, and fatsand at more "macro"
   exposure to stress, and/or biological differences levels, such as
   cells, tissues, organs, systems, in, and response to, disease and risk
   may account organisms, and communities. As important, we for some
   observed health differentials. need to understand the effects of
   disease, genetic alterations, and environment at these different Thus,
   we need to understand how biological, levels in different populations
   and their behavioral, and environmental factors interact to
   consequences for human health. This knowledge affect human health in
   different populations. will be important for clarifying why rates and
   With this in mind, the NIH has identified four outcomes of illness
   differ among population research objectives which seek to understand
   the groups. causes of health disparities and to promote development of
   preventions, diagnostics, and To advance understanding of the
   development treatments to reduce or eliminate them (see Table and
   progression of diseases that contribute to 1). health disparities, a
   variety of approaches must be pursued, including studies of
   epidemiology and The following sections provide selected examples risk
   factors among diverse populations; the of the variety of ongoing and
   new research effects of environment and socioeconomic status studies
   that NIH will support as part of its on disease and health outcomes;
   differences in strategic plan for understanding and reducing the
   initiation and progression of disease and health disparities among
   ethnic and racial disability; and the role of genetic variation in the
   minorities. The ultimate goal of these research causes and course of
   disease and disability. efforts is to develop improved means for
   prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of diseases and disabilities that
   disproportionately affect specific populations. These activities are
   summarized in Table 2. 15 16 Table 2 Selected Examples of NIH Research
   Initiatives to Reduce and Ultimately Eliminate Health Disparities 1.
   Advance understanding of the 2. Develop new and improved approaches
   development and progression of diseases for detecting or diagnosing the
   onset of and disabilities that contribute to health progression of
   diseases and disabilities in disparities in minority populations.
   minority populations. Epidemiology and Risk Factors Prostate Cancer
   Stroke Mental Disorders Cardiovascular Disease Language Disorders
   Hepatitis C Cancer Surveillance 3. Develop new and improved approaches
   Prostate Cancer for preventing or delaying the onset or Drug Abuse and
   Addiction progression of diseases and disabilities Sexually Transmitted
   Diseases that contribute to health disparities in Oral Health minority
   populations. Osteoarthritis Glaucoma Diabetes Youth Violence Obesity
   Alternative Medicine Project Northland Dental Caries Environment and
   Socioeconomic Status Asthma Biomarkers for Diseases HIV Vaccine
   Development Centers for Health Disparity Research Cognition 4. Develop
   new and improved approaches for treating diseases and disabilities that
   Mechanisms of Disease contribute to health disparities in minority
   Perinatal Research Injury populations. Stress Mental Illness
   Scleroderma Cancer Survivorship End of Life/Palliative Care Research
   Genetic Variations Tuberculosis Diabetes Diet and Hypertension
   Hypertension Alternative Medicine Pharmacogenetics HIV Infection and
   Metabolic Change Alcoholism Treatment of Diabetes and its Complications
   Lupus 17 Epidemiology and Risk Factors. Population American men and
   women. In addition, research studies are essential to tease out the
   underlying will be supported to characterize traits (intrinsic causes
   of disparities in health. Such studies aging changes versus
   cardiovascular disease risk inquire into biological differences in
   disease and factor burden) in a biracial (African American- risk;
   differences in morbidity and mortality Caucasian) population that may
   influence according to race, sex, and ethnicity; and progression of
   sub-clinical cardiovascular disease environmental and socio-economic
   differences in an aging population. NIH will expand support and their
   relation to health and disease. These of a well-characterized biracial
   (African studies also provide essential information to help
   American-Caucasian) population that has been frame the questions for
   additional basic and followed for cardiovascular disease risk factors
   applied research. and lifestyles, through the Bogalusa Heart Study,
   over the past 25 years into middle age and Stroke. Several new
   trans-Institute initiatives beyond. New research will provide insight
   into will encourage researchers to explore the causes the interaction
   between normal aging, including of stroke disparities in racial and
   ethnic minorities the growth and maturation process in childhood, by
   analyzing the effects of genetics, environment, and predisposing risk
   factors that may influence and their interactions in health outcomes.
   One development of sub-clinical cardiovascular study will focus on the
   role of migration and disease in an African American-Caucasian
   acculturation of minority populations in the United population reaching
   middle age. This initiative States, as risk factors for stroke. Also,
   to better will provide a greater understanding of the understand the
   risk factors for stroke in minority evolution of cardiovascular disease
   risk in normal populations, NIH will support the first phase of a aging
   and may also lead to improved lifestyle pilot program at the Morehouse
   School of programs for successful aging and longevity, Medicine. This
   6-year multidisciplinary research including cardiovascular disease
   prevention. program will assess established and potential new risk
   factors for stroke in minority populations Hepatitis C. Various
   population-based surveys while helping to develop expertise on
   population indicate that the Hepatitis C virus has a greater research
   methodology at a minority medical impact on minority populations in the
   United school. Also, in partnership with the Alaskan States. African
   Americans are infected with the Indian Health Service, NIH will support
   a Stroke hepatitis C virus at twice the rate of non-minority Registry
   for Alaska Natives living in Alaska. populations, and they are less
   responsive to The registry will allow the determination of therapy.
   This differential response to treatment incidence, prevalence,
   distribution, and risk remains unexplained and requires further factors
   pertinent to Alaska Natives. Given the investigation as part of our
   health disparities unique characteristics of this population, including
   research plan. The NIH is supporting four their traditional diet rich
   in fish and marine Hepatitis C Cooperative Research Centers, two
   mammals and relatively recent exposure to of which have minority
   populations as a focus. Western habits, it is possible that the
   registry may The first Center is following a large, urban, help
   identify new risk and protective factors for predominantly African
   American group that stroke. injects drugs; the second is following an
   Alaska Native cohort. The Centers are examining the Cardiovascular
   Disease. The NIH will natural history of the infection and the
   persistence continue its support of the Jackson Heart Study, a and
   pathogenesis of both the virus and the host. prospective review of the
   environmental and The NIH will also start a Hepatitis C Virus genetic
   factors affecting the disproportionate Recovery and Research Network to
   acquire new incidence of cardiovascular diseases in African information
   about population factors contributing 18 to different infection and
   recovery rates among physical activity, and body size may be involved,
   minorities. as well as inter-relationships with genetic susceptibility
   factors. Previous large-scale Cancer Surveillance. The NIH and the
   studies of prostate cancer in African Americans National Center for
   Health Statistics (NCHS) of and Caucasians have been limited to the CDC
   will collaborate to improve coordination questionnaire-based studies.
   To better of national cancer surveillance research and understand the
   factors contributing to these control programs, with the primary
   objective of differing risks for and rates of prostate cancer,
   describing and monitoring cancer-related NIH will support a
   comprehensive, biologically- disparities among individuals and
   populations. based epidemiologic investigation in African NIH, CDC, and
   NCHS will produce a multi-year Americans and Caucasians in the
   southeastern, plan for collaborative activities in the analysis and
   northwestern, and other parts of the United dissemination of
   cancer-related health survey, States to identify determinants of
   prostate cancer health survey methodology, and techniques for in
   high-risk and low-risk populations. improving the quality and
   availability of data pertinent to measuring population-based health
   Drug Abuse and Addiction. NIH will support disparities. In addition,
   NIH will expand the research to identify the short- and long-term
   Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results effects of drug use, abuse,
   addiction, and violence (SEER) Program to include populations with and
   their interrelationships on the overall health differential cancer
   rates that are currently (including physical, mental and emotional
   health) underrepresented (e.g., Hispanics, rural African of men, women,
   and children in racial/ethnic Americans, American Indians, high
   poverty, and populations. Specifically, research will be high cancer
   death rates). Expansion of the SEER expanded to: investigate health and
   Program will strengthen the existing national developmental disparities
   across racial/ethnic infrastructure for surveillance research, which in
   groups for children and adolescents who have turn will lead to improved
   understanding of health experienced prenatal drug exposure and/or early
   disparities in cancer outcomes among major use of illicit drugs by
   gender within these groups; ethnic populations. identify and review the
   state of knowledge and availability of data on the coexistence of
   Prostate Cancer. Prostate cancer is the most substance abuse and
   mental/emotional disorders commonly diagnosed form of cancer in men in
   and the presence of health disparities across and the United States
   and, following lung cancer, is within racial/ethnic groups including
   analyses by the second most common cause of cancer-related gender; and
   identify the impact of the drug using death. African American men
   suffer environment on racial/ethnic women and men disproportionately
   from this disease, with some of living under those conditions. the
   highest incidence and mortality rates reported in the world. Among
   African Americans, the Sexually Transmitted Diseases. The NIH will
   highest death rates tend to cluster in the conduct a study to expand
   the understanding of southeastern United States, with mortality in
   parts factors that contribute to high-risk sexual of this region
   approaching three times the national behavior. Part of this study will
   measure the death rate for Caucasians. The reasons for the magnitude of
   risk reduction in the context of differential geographic and ethnic
   risks are monthly support groups. Six hundred African- unknown,
   although variation in dietary fat and American and Mexican-American
   women with a cooking practices, selenium intake, agricultural current
   STD will be enrolled from health clinics in exposures, sexually
   transmitted factors, San Antonio, Texas endogenous hormones and growth
   factors, 19 Oral Health. The NIH is establishing Centers Glaucoma. The
   Baltimore, Beaver Dam, and for Research to Reduce Oral Health
   Disparities. Barbados Eye Studies have established race as a The
   objectives of these Centers are: 1) to significant risk factor for
   primary open-angle support research to understand the factors glaucoma,
   with all three studies confirming involved in craniofacial, oral and
   dental health substantially higher rates of the disease among
   disparities, and to design interventions to reduce African Americans.
   There is a dearth of such disparities; and 2) to develop and strengthen
   information about the prevalence and incidence of the national research
   capacity by expanding glaucoma in Hispanic and Native American
   opportunities for scientists in underrepresented populations;
   therefore, studies will be initiated in groups within the scientific
   workforce. This these populations to obtain this critical initiative
   will encourage inter-disciplinary research information. Large-scale
   initiatives proposed by across components of academic health centers
   NIH will improve understanding of the nature and and will involve
   community-based research with course of glaucoma, incorporating studies
   of State and local health departments, including comorbidity, natural
   history, and genetics, with health financing agencies. It will also
   provide special emphasis on Hispanic, Native American, opportunities
   for collaboration among NIH and African American populations.
   Institutes and Centers and other Federal agencies. Youth Violence. The
   NIH Youth Violence Consortium will develop a collaborative effort to
   Osteoarthritis. The NIH is encouraging understand the antecedents,
   social and research studies to evaluate risk factors for the
   neurobiological causes, and outcomes of violent development and
   progression of osteoarthritis in youth behavior. The NIH will also
   support vulnerable populations. Studies have shown that another
   collaborative effort across racial and African Americans have much
   lower rates of ethnic lines to study the short- and long-term total
   knee replacement than Caucasians, even effects of domestic violence
   during pregnancy when adjusted for age, sex, and insurance and the
   effects of domestic and community coverage. Total joint replacement
   (TJR) is a violence on children. successful procedure for end-stage
   arthritis of the major weight-bearing joints. More than 500,000
   Alternative Medicine. The NIH will support hip and knee replacements
   are done annually in epidemiological studies of complementary and the
   United States. For reasons that are not fully alternative medicine
   (CAM) in underserved understood, most of these procedures are
   populations. Specifically, investigators will be performed in
   Caucasians. Serious questions have encouraged to collect and analyze
   data on been raised concerning the disparate rates for demographics,
   health and social characteristics, TJR between racial groups and
   geographic race/ethnicity, pre-existing illness, and CAM locations that
   seem to have no direct relationship utilization among the underserved.
   A national to incidence of disease. Therefore, the NIH will survey of
   CAM utilization is planned. In addition, fund research to develop a
   method for conducting comparative studies of immigrant populations in
   an in-depth analysis of the rate differential that their country of
   origin and in their countries of could lead to an identification of the
   underlying relocation will assist in clarifying the roles of reasons
   for this disparity. The results of this environmental, psychosocial,
   and genetic factors research could be used to help ensure that the in
   the effectiveness of CAM. benefits of TJR can be extended to the
   segment of the population that appears to have limited Environment and
   Socioeconomic Status. The access to this procedure. poor often have
   worse health than other population groups, resulting in shorter life 20
   expectancy, higher cancer rates, more birth to which individuals are
   exposed in a multitude of defects, greater infant mortality, and higher
   settings, including home, school, and workplace. incidence of asthma,
   diabetes, and cardiovascular Such research will clarify biological and
   disease. The ways in which poverty contributes behavioral processes
   that lead to health to these health disparities are still poorly
   disparities, and this information can be used as a understood. Research
   that seeks to better basis for developing intervention strategies. The
   understand the effects of social and physical centers will then conduct
   and evaluate environments on human health and disease is an
   community-based intervention research projects important avenue of
   pursuit toward ameliorating intended to reduce the unequal burden of
   the health disparities suffered by the economically morbidity and
   mortality borne by low SES and disadvantaged of this nation. minority
   populations. Biomarkers for Diseases. The NIH will Cognition. The NIH
   will coordinate support research into the fetal antecedents of,
   demographic and epidemiological studies on the and biomarkers for,
   differences in hypertension, racial, ethnic, geographic, socioeconomic,
   stroke, diabetes, and coronary heart disease. educational, and health
   factors affecting Studies will be supported to identify how cognitive,
   sensory, and motor health and the deficiencies in the uterus influence
   the developing development of mild cognitive impairment, fetus and
   contribute to future chronic disease, Alzheimer's disease, and other
   neurodegenerative define normal fetal growth, and identify other
   diseases of aging. A common goal will be to biomarkers in minority and
   non-minority groups. understand cognition in the contexts of culture
   Another initiative will determine if maternal-fetal and environment in
   order to understand how response to external stimuli vary among racial
   individuals adapt in various ways to maintain and ethnic groups. An
   additional effort will cognitive functioning as they age. extend the
   Science and Ecology of Early Development project, which examines the
   Mechanisms of Disease. Identifying differences relationship of poverty
   to other factors that affect in how disease and disability begins,
   manifests, the development of children. and progresses in different
   populations, and understanding the reasons for such differences,
   Centers for Health Disparity Research. The are important steps toward
   reducing health NIH will create Centers for Health Disparity
   disparities. Research and Intervention to foster an interdisciplinary
   approach to the study of health Perinatal Research. To better
   understand the disparities. These Centers will bring researchers
   pathophysiological, social, and behavioral factors together to
   determine the mechanisms by which that lead to preterm births and low
   birthweight, the interaction of socioeconomic status (SES), the NIH
   will significantly expand the scope of social, and physical
   environments lead to health current efforts in perinatal research.
   Specifically, disparities. The social environment includes the agency
   will: 1) clarify the causes of health individual and community-level
   characteristics, disparities in preterm births and in adverse e.g.,
   SES, education, coping resources and neonatal outcomes arising from
   support systems, residential factors, cultural infectious/inflammatory
   disease processes, variables, institutional and political forces such
   as through multidisciplinary, collaborative research, racism, familial
   factors, and media influences. and by augmenting current Neonatal and
   The physical environment includes physical Maternal Fetal Medicine
   Network protocols; 2) agents (e.g., radiation), chemical agents (e.g.,
   develop and implement clinical trials to prevent pesticides) and
   biological agents (e.g., pathogens) preterm births and adverse neonatal
   outcomes 21 arising from infectious/inflammatory disease the majority
   population. Basic behavioral science processes, focusing on minority
   women, and research has documented certain cultural and testing
   different treatment regimens, and ethnic variations in processes
   involved in coping preventive and counseling strategies; 3) identify
   with stress, e.g., cognitive, emotional, and social genetic factors
   that predispose women and their processes, perception of self, and
   motivation. infants to preterm births and low birth weight, Constant
   effort to avoid or cope with stress can focusing on racial and ethnic
   populations; and 4) cause and exacerbate psychological expand the D.C.
   Initiative with new consequences. NIH plans to increase interventions,
   focusing on African American and understanding of the mechanisms by
   which Hispanic teens, that simultaneously address culturally-related
   stressful situations affect health psychosocial and behavioral risk
   factors to by: 1) studying the basic psychological processes prevent
   preterm births and low birthweight. described above, with a focus on
   clarifying the complex processes that contribute to disparities in
   Injury. Injury-related death rates are greater for mental health; 2)
   developing diagnostic measures underrepresented minorities (African
   Americans, of mental disorders that are valid within racial and
   Hispanics, and Native Americans, and Alaska ethnic groups so that
   disparities can be more Natives than for Caucasians. While access to
   precisely documented and assessed; and appropriate medical care is
   likely to be an 3) examining factors that foster adaptive coping,
   important factor in these differences, the question with the aim of
   developing new prevention and of whether underlying differences exist
   between treatment strategies. racial and ethnic groups in the
   physiological response to injury remains to be adequately Scleroderma.
   Social, racial, cultural, addressed. Preliminary clinical studies on
   immunogenetic, and clinical variables may affect humans have suggested
   that there are several presentation and progression of scleroderma.
   potential mechanisms that could explain gender or The NIH plans to
   increase support for research racial differences to injury. Beyond the
   to identify biological factors in predisposition for, immediate
   post-injury period, gender, racial, or as well as the onset and
   progression of, ethnic characteristics may influence the scleroderma,
   thus allowing the design of restoration and repair of tissue as well.
   NIH will appropriate interventions. support research to: 1) determine
   the genetic basis for the host response to injury, with Genetic
   Variation. The Human Genome Project particular reference to genetic
   variations known and other initiatives are locating, identifying, and
   to be prevalent in underrepresented minority describing the functions
   of the estimated 50,000 populations; 2) assess whether the perception
   and to 100,000 human genes. This knowledge is management of pain
   following burn injury differs leading to new insights into how
   variations in based on gender, race, or ethnicity, or is entirely genes
   may contribute to significant differences in individualized; and 3)
   investigate the molecular how individuals and populations experience
   and cellular basis of keloid formation, disease and disability, are
   affected by mechanisms of severe wound contraction, and environmental
   factors, and respond to therapies the means to allow skin grafts to
   regain pre-burn and preventive measures. Understanding appearance,
   emphasizing the need to expand into variations in gene expression in
   diverse considerations of unique properties and populations is thus an
   important step towards characteristics of the skin of subpopulations.
   reducing health disparities. Stress. Racial and ethnic minorities tend
   to There is little population-based data on genetic experience more
   stressful situations compared to and epidemiological factors that play
   a role in 22 disproportionate rates and burdens of diseases
   pharmacogenetics initiatives that are designed to like cancer and
   diabetes among minorities. In discover what role genetic variation
   plays in drug response, the NIH has launched initiatives to responses.
   For example, NIH will expand the collect population-based data while
   maximizing scope of the Pharmacogenetics Research the participation of
   minority researchers, Network and Knowledge Base that collects,
   physicians, and patients. The identification of interprets, and stores
   information about inherited genes underlying susceptibility to common
   variations that determine therapeutic and adverse diseases in minority
   populations and an responses to drugs. Candidate genes and gene
   understanding of the function of these genes and products will be
   evaluated that might be their interaction with environmental factors
   will responsible for the therapeutic mechanism of lead to improved
   management and treatment of action of drugs used to treat mental
   disorders in disease. diverse subpopulations. Diabetes. The NIH will
   promote and further Alcoholism. Recent data suggest that there are
   expand research on the causes of diabetes in genetic differences
   between ethnic groups in their minority populations and its program on
   type 2 sensitivity to alcohol. These potential ethnic diabetes in
   children. These studies will help in differences in alcohol sensitivity
   may result, in determining the underlying physiologic, metabolic, part,
   from genetic differences in metabolic genetic, psychosocial, and
   behavioral factors that factors and from differences in the central
   cause the racial and ethnic differences in the nervous system's
   reactivity to alcohol. incidence of type 2 diabetes. Measurements of
   the physiological and behavioral outcome of gene activity will yield
   more refined Hypertension. Two programs supported by markers that
   indicate genetic ethnic differences in NIH will continue to examine the
   genetic basis of susceptibility to alcoholism, potentially leading to
   hypertension. The Molecular Genetics of means of prevention and
   treatment modalities. Hypertension initiative will study causes and NIH
   will support studies to determine the specific development of the
   disease to improve diagnosis genetic factors that contribute to the
   high risk for and treatment, with one subproject focusing only
   alcoholism in certain minority/ethnic groups. on African Americans. The
   Family Blood Other efforts will assess gender differences in Pressure
   Program, in which 61 percent of the response to alcohol in diverse
   racial populations, participants are African American, is a and
   establish how sociocultural factors interact collaborative network to
   identify genes associated with genetic variations in
   alcohol-metabolizing with high blood pressure. enzymes to produce
   differences in drinking. Pharmacogenetics. Pharmacogenetics is the
   Lupus. Like scleroderma, another autoimmune study of the effects of
   inheritance on drug action. disorder, many variables may affect
   presentation Individual variability occurs in both the desired and
   progress of lupus, but genetic factors seem to therapeutic effects of
   drugs, as well as in their be more important than other determinants
   toxicity (or side effects). Genetic polymorphisms especially at the
   onset. Identification of the significantly affect the elimination of
   several biological factors for predisposition and onset will major
   classes of important drugs in clinical use make possible the design of
   interventions. The today, including antidepressants, antipsychotics,
   NIH will continue supporting the Lupus Registry several cardiovascular
   drugs, antiepileptics, and and Repository, a national resource of blood
   from anti-ulcer drugs. These genetic differences can lupus patients and
   their families, about half of have serious clinical consequences,
   particularly in whom are African American; a new objective is chronic
   dosing situations. The NIH will support 23 to increase the number of
   Mexican American and effects of screening among African American Puerto
   Rican families. men. 2. Develop new and improved approaches Mental
   Disorders. The burden of mental for detecting or diagnosing the onset
   or disorders falls disproportionately on minorities, yet progression of
   diseases and disabilities there are significant discrepancies between
   rates that contribute to health disparities in of mental disorders and
   utilization of mental minority populations. health services. African
   American men show a consistent underutilization and, while data on
   Research to create new diagnostic tools is closely Asians and Hispanics
   are inadequate, it appears intertwined with basic disease research;
   that Asians have the lowest utilization rates of all. diagnostic tools
   are most commonly developed The NIH plans to obtain baseline
   assessments of after the mechanisms of the specific disease the
   prevalence of mental disorders among process are understood. Numerous
   efforts are minorities and of disabilities associated with planned to
   focus on developing a broad array of mental disorders, including
   substance abuse and approaches to more effectively detect, diagnose,
   substance abuse disorders, among minorities. and assess diseases that
   disproportionately affect Representative epidemiological studies of
   mental racial and ethnic subpopulations. This is disorders, substance
   abuse, disability, and service important because early and accurate
   diagnosis utilization will provide data to assess the and detection are
   often key requirements for disparities of mental disorders, insights
   into the effective treatment, delay, and control of disease causes of
   the disparities, and baselines against and disability. Some of the most
   life-threatening which remedies for the disparities can be and
   disabling illnesses affecting racial and ethnic measured. minorities
   can only be controlled or cured if they are diagnosed and treated in
   the earliest stages. Language Disorders. As the U.S. becomes more
   culturally, racially, and linguistically diverse, Prostate Cancer. The
   Baltimore Longitudinal it is becoming increasingly difficult to
   discriminate Study of Aging has produced findings about between
   language disorders and language prostate specific antigen (PSA) that
   have differences in children. Problems in language improved the ability
   to screen Caucasian men for assessment arise because the majority of
   prostate cancer and hyperplasia and assess risks. currently available
   measures are designed for We still do not know how to apply
   longitudinal identifying speech and language problems in measures of
   PSA and prostate volume in standard English speakers. The NIH is
   assessing risks for African American men, who supporting projects to
   develop language tests for have the highest rate of prostate cancer in
   the non-standard English. Investigators are collecting world and a
   higher PSA baseline, yet longitudinal cross-sectional data on language
   abilities in collection of data can equip physicians to identify
   normally developing four- to six-year-old the best modes of screening
   and diagnosis. In speakers whose primary language is not English order
   to help determine if certain screening or is a non-standard form of
   English. The data techniques can reduce the number of deaths from are
   aimed at developing items for a language prostate cancer, the Prostate,
   Colorectal, and assessment instrument or procedure that could be
   Ovarian Screening Trial will enroll 75,000 men used to differentiate
   between language who will be screened for prostate cancer. The
   impairment and normal language development. NIH has initiated minority
   recruitment efforts for Cognitive and developmental research is just
   this trial specifically to determine the mortality starting to identify
   the best instructional 24 approaches to ensure the school readiness of
   results from differences in diet and physical Hispanic children.
   activity or from socioeconomic or other environmental factors and if
   these distinctions, in 3. Develop new and improved approaches turn,
   lead to racial differences in stroke and other for preventing or
   delaying the onset or cardiovascular risks, like high blood pressure
   and progression of diseases and disabilities blood lipid levels. The
   study has been extended that contribute to health disparities in to
   track the participants into early adulthood when minority populations.
   changes, related to obesity, in stroke and cardiovascular risk factors
   seem to occur. To develop ways of preventing, delaying, and Another
   effort among African American girls at halting disease requires the
   contributions of many high risk for obesity is testing the
   effectiveness of disciplines. Epidemiology can identify the various
   weight-control interventions during the magnitude, and possibly the
   variability, of a critical transition from prepuberty to puberty.
   disease in different populations and may identify The Obesity
   Prevention in Young American those at greatest risk. An understanding
   of Indians program is assessing the effectiveness of disease mechanisms
   may produce means of intervention in schools as a primary preventive
   preventing or delaying the onset of disease by measure against obesity
   in elementary school determining the cause of a disease, how it affects
   children. For years, the NIH has conducted cells or organs, or whether
   there is a genetic clinical and epidemiological research on obesity
   predisposition for the disease. Behavioral studies and diabetes among
   the Pima Indians of Arizona are important since intervention may
   require new because type 2 diabetes is extremely prevalent medication
   or change in behavior. Clinical among them. The NIH has added genetic
   studies research and trials are the only means of and is planning to
   increase emphasis on evaluating new therapies or behavioral
   intervention trials and studies of prevention and approaches. treatment
   with the aim of determining the biological and behavioral causes of the
   Diabetes. The NIH supports an extensive disproportionately high
   incidence of diabetes portfolio on diabetes research. Greater among the
   Pima. understanding of the causes of diabetes are critical in
   accounting for the higher rates of the Project Northland. Project
   Northland combined disease among minorities. The Diabetes an alcohol
   prevention curriculum in schools with Prevention Program, a clinical
   trial, is a large, parental and community involvement, and school
   multi-center study of diabetes prevention at 27 policy change and was
   found to be effective in sites in the United States, with 45 percent of
   the small, predominantly Caucasian communities in participants drawn
   from minority populations. Minnesota. The NIH is, therefore, planning
   to The Diabetes Research and Training Centers are test prevention and
   intervention programs among conducting behavioral research to advance
   minority youth. With some adjustments, this knowledge of the behavioral
   and psychosocial approach to delaying initiation to alcohol among
   factors that may contribute to onset and aid in adolescents will be
   tested in urban neighborhoods control of diabetes among minorities. and
   school districts with substantial numbers of minorities. Obesity. The
   NIH supports a range of research studies that focus on the prevention
   of obesity Dental Caries. NIH will support research to among minority
   populations. For example, the address the treatment and prevention of
   dental Growth and Health Study seeks to determine if caries as a way of
   directly reducing the incidence racial disparity in obesity among
   pubescent girls and prevalence of the disease within SES and 25
   ethnically/racially distinct groups and as a means HIV Vaccine
   Development. NIH will initiate of stopping or preventing its sequelae.
   In this an HIV vaccine efficacy trial through the HIV regard, the
   research will, among other things, Vaccine Trials Network. With other
   scientists, focus on access to care and prevention issues the NIH will
   also study the scope and relationship (e.g., increasing access to
   dental care; of viral and human genetic variation in relation to
   information dissemination to dental clinicians), the vaccine
   development, an important research development and testing of
   interventions aimed at effort given the higher burden of HIV among
   modifying risk-taking behaviors both among minorities in the United
   States. children and their caretakers that lead to increased incidences
   of dental caries and the 4. Develop new and improved approaches
   development and testing of interventions directly for treating diseases
   and disabilities that relevant to the treatment and prevention of the
   contribute to health disparities in minority disease itself. In
   addition, NIH is supporting populations. research to develop safe, low
   cost, stable caries vaccines for high-risk individuals. The aim of much
   of NIH research is the development of new and improved therapeutics.
   Asthma. Asthma morbidity and mortality are The objective of reducing
   health disparities particularly high among poor, urban African
   affecting racial and ethnic minorities through Americans. To address
   this disparity, the NIH improved treatments requires advances in many
   established the National Cooperative Inner-City areas, from chemistry
   to structural biology to Asthma Study, which identified many factors
   bioengineering and pharmacology. The associated with the severity of
   asthma among successful development of new therapies will also African
   American and Hispanic children, depend on a strong foundation of
   understanding including the combination of cockroach allergy disease
   mechanisms and how normal and and high levels of cockroach allergen.
   The study abnormal biological functions may vary in also implemented
   educational, behavioral, and different populations. Clinical research
   is the environmental interventions to alter the factors final common
   pathway for assessing the efficacy identified as major contributors to
   severe asthma of new treatment approaches. New and demonstrated that an
   asthma counselor, in approacheswhether drugs, devices, or changes
   addition to environmental controls, substantially in behaviormust
   ultimately be evaluated in a helped to reduce asthma morbidity. The
   Asthma variety of subpopulations. In addition, health Clinical Research
   Network will be continued. services research is needed to study the
   ultimate This involves establishing an interactive network effect of
   any new approach on the burden of a of asthma clinical research groups,
   including one disease, both to the individual and to society. at Harlem
   Hospital, which serves a predominantly minority population, to conduct
   studies of novel Mental Illness. Clinical research supported by
   therapies for asthma and disseminate findings to NIH and others has
   demonstrated the efficacy of the practicing community. In addition, the
   various interventions for mental illnesses. Childhood Asthma Management
   Program which However, few mental health treatment studies seeks to
   determine if regular use of either of two have enrolled enough
   minorities to determine how types of anti-inflammatory medications
   results in well various treatments work in these populations, greater
   lung function, less bronchial in part because minorities are less
   likely to enroll hyperresponsiveness, and improved quality of life in
   clinical trials. Of particular interest is whether for asthmatic
   children; 33 percent of the different groups have less response to
   commonly participants are minorities. used interventions such as
   pharmacological medications and psychotherapeutic approaches. 26
   Moreover, research has shown that providers do Tuberculosis. The
   Tuberculosis Research Unit, not always deliver what is considered to be
   the an international, multi-disciplinary team, is best interventions
   for a particular illness. This developing or evaluating new assays,
   markers, gap in quality of care has been shown to be preventions, and
   therapies, including a new drug particularly problematic in relation to
   services that is taken less often, which may address a provided to
   minority groups. NIH research will major compliance problem among
   minorities. The determine why recruitment and retention of NIH is also
   supporting epidemiological studies on minority group members into
   randomized clinical genetic and environmental factors that contribute
   trials of mental health treatments is so difficult; to tuberculosis.
   determine the most culturally relevant, appropriate, and acceptable
   outcomes regarding Diet and Hypertension. Two initiatives will symptoms
   and functioning; see if there are continue to assess diet in
   controlling hypertension different outcomes for minority groups when
   among minorities. One, in which 50 percent of treatment interventions
   are provided in the the participants are African American, compares
   community and, if so, why; determine whether the effects of three
   levels of sodium intake and providers use different interventions for
   various two diets, a reference diet and the DASH diet, minority groups
   and if so, why; and determine the which is low in fat and high in
   fruits and impact of cultural competence training on the vegetables.
   The second, Premier: Lifesty
