http://www.nmvb.ca.gov/appeals.htm


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




               NMVB Home
               Organization of the Board
               Board Member Biographies
               Consumer Mediation Services
               Protests
               Petitions
               Appeals
               Regulatory Actions
               Site Map
               E-Mail Us!

               Place your department seal here.(see the size)

               1507 21st Street, Suite 330
               Sacramento, CA 95814
               Phone: 916.445.1888
               FAX: 916.323.1632

               Get directions



   New Motor Vehicle Board



                          __________ [BUTTON Input] (not implemented)______
                          (*)  My CA   ( )   This Site


   Appeals


                             Statutory Authority

   Pursuant to Vehicle Code § 3050(b) and 3052, an applicant for, or
   holder of a license as a new motor vehicle dealer, manufacturer,
   manufacturer branch, distributor, distributor branch, or
   representative, may file an appeal with the Board after any final
   decision of the Director of the Department which adversely affects the
   occupational license of the appellant. Examples include matters such as
   the suspension or revocation of the appellant's license.

                            How to File an Appeal

   The following are guidelines to consider when filing an appeal,
   however, the applicable Vehicle Code sections (3000 et seq.) and
   regulations (13 CCR § 550 et seq.) should be consulted as well.
   Additionally, the Board's legal staff is available to provide
   information concerning the procedural aspects of filing an appeal. The
   staff can be contacted at (916) 445-2080. The Board's staff is not
   permitted to provide legal advice concerning the merits of a particular
   matter.

   There are four things that must accompany each appeal filed:

   1. The Notice of Appeal;

   2. Evidence that the appellant has requested the administrative record
   of the Department and advanced the cost of that record;

   3. A $200.00 filing fee or request for fee waiver upon good cause
   shown; and,

   4. Proof of service that the Department was served with a copy of the
   appeal.

   If any of the above are not enclosed, the appeal may not be processed
   until any missing items have been received.

                       Time Frame for Filing an Appeal
                                [btn_top.gif]

   In general, the notice of appeal must be filed with the Board on the
   10th day after the last day on which reconsideration of the final
   decision of the Department can be ordered (see Vehicle Code § 3052(a)
   and 13 CCR 566). The failure to seek reconsideration before the
   Department does not affect the right to appeal (see Vehicle Code §
   3052(a)).

   An appeal is filed on the date it is received by the Secretary of the
   Board. An appeal mailed by registered mail is deemed filed on the
   postmark date.

                            Administrative Record

   Upon its receipt from the Office of Administrative Hearings, the
   original and 3 copies of the complete administrative record is
   forwarded by the appellant to the Executive Secretary of the Board (see
   13 CCR § 571(a)). The complete administrative record of the Department
   includes the pleadings, all notices and orders issued by the
   Department, any proposed decision by a hearing officer, the exhibits
   admitted or rejected, the written evidence and any other papers in the
   case (see Vehicle Code § 3052(c)).

   In lieu of filing the complete record, the appellant may forward those
   parts of the administrative record which appellant deems necessary to
   support its appeal. If the case is being submitted on an agreed
   statement, only the accusation and Department's decision need be
   forwarded.

                   Effectiveness of Department's Decision
                                [btn_top.gif]

   A decision of the Department is not effective during the period in
   which an appeal may be filed. The filing of an appeal stays the
   decision of the Department until a final order is made by the Board.

   However, when a decision of the Department orders the revocation of a
   dealer's license, the Department, may on or before the last day upon
   which an appeal may be filed with the Board, petition the Board to
   order the decision of the Department into effect. With regards to the
   petition, the Department bears the burden of proof (see Vehicle Code §
   3052).

                       Required Elements of an Appeal

   The contents of a Notice of Appeal are contained in 13 CCR 568. A
   Notice of Appeal must:

   1. Be in writing and be signed by the appellant or its attorney (13 CCR
   § 597);

   2. Indicate that appellant is an applicant for, or a holder of, a
   license as a new car dealer, manufacturer, manufacturer branch,
   distributor, distributor branch, or representative (13 CCR § 568(a));

   3. Set forth those portions of Vehicle Code sections 3054 and 3055
   providing the basis for the appeal (13 CCR § 568(b));

   4. Indicate that appellant has applied to the Office of Administrative
   Hearings for the complete administrative record or those portions that
   appellant desires to file with the Board and has advanced the costs of
   the preparation thereof; or, in lieu thereof, that the case is being
   submitted on an agreed statement (13 CCR §§ 568(c) and 572);

   5. Include a statement that appellant desires to produce before the
   Board relevant evidence which in the exercise of reasonable diligence
   could not have been produced or which was improperly excluded at the
   hearing, if the appeal is based in whole or in part on Vehicle Code
   section 3054(e) (see 13 CCR §§ 568(d) and 569);

   6. Indicate either that the appellant does or does not desire to appear
   before the Board (13 CCR § 568(e));

   7. Be accompanied by a $200 filing fee in the form of a check or money
   order payable to the New Motor Vehicle Board (13 CCR § 553.40); and

   8. Be accompanied by a completed proof of service signifying that a
   copy of the Notice of Appeal was served upon the Department (13 CCR §
   570).

                             HEARING PROCEDURES

                           General Considerations

   At the hearing, oral argument is heard and a Final Order is rendered.
   The hearing is not conducted according to the technical rules relating
   to evidence and witnesses. Any relevant evidence shall be admitted if
   it is the sort of evidence on which responsible persons are accustomed
   to rely in the conduct of serious affairs, regardless of the existence
   of any common law or statutory rule which might make improper the
   admission of such evidence over objection in civil actions. Evidence
   that is irrelevant or unduly repetitious is excluded (see 13 CCR §
   580).

                          Application Pro Hac Vice

   Pursuant to Rule 983 of the California Rules of Court, a person who is
   not a member of the California State Bar must file an application to
   appear as counsel pro hac vice and associate with local counsel.

                          Request for a Fee Waiver

   [btn_top.gif] The Executive Secretary may, upon a showing of good
   cause, waive the filing fee (see 13 CCR § 553.40).

                           PRE-HEARING PROCEDURES

                                   Briefs

   Once the administrative record or agreed statement of facts has been
   received from the appellant, the Executive Secretary establishes a
   briefing schedule. Any party to the appeal filing a brief must submit
   the original brief and an additional 9 copies. A copy must be served
   upon the opposing party and completed proof of service must accompany
   the original filed with the Board (see 13 CCR § 573).

                           HEARINGS ON THE MERITS

                            Notice of the Hearing

   At least 20 days prior to the hearing date, the Executive Secretary
   shall service notice of date, time and place of hearing upon the
   Department, appellant, the members of the Board and any other party
   making a written request for such notice (see 13 CCR § 574).

                          Changes To A Hearing Date

   The Executive Secretary may continue the date fixed for the hearing, if
   good cause is shown. Applications for continuance must be in writing
   and must be filed with the Executive Secretary at least 10 days prior
   to the hearing. Continuances are not granted except in extreme
   emergencies such as serious accident or death (see 13 CCR § 575).

                       Failure to Appear at a Hearing

   Any party who fails to appear at a hearing may not be entitled to a
   further opportunity to be heard except in cases where good cause for
   such failure is shown to the Board or to the Administrative Law Judge
   within 5 days thereafter. The lack of such a showing may, in the
   discretion of the Board or the Administrative Law Judge, be interpreted
   as an abandonment of interest by the party in the subject matter of the
   dispute (see 13 CCR 582).

                             Conduct of Hearing

   Unless otherwise ordered by the Board, counsel for each party is
   allowed 20 minutes for oral argument. No more than one counsel for a
   party may be heard except that different counsel for appellant may make
   opening and closing arguments (see 13 CCR 576).

                                Intervention

   [btn_top.gif]

   Any person, including a Board Member, may file a motion to intervene in
   a pending protest (see 13 CCR § 551.13).

                            Amicus curiae Briefs

   The Board, its Secretary, or a hearing officer may, in his or her
   discretion, allow the filing of amicus curiae briefs (see 13 CCR §§
   551.13 and 573). If the application for filing an amicus curiae brief
   is granted, the original and 9 additional copies must be filed with the
   Executive Secretary. A copy must be served on the appellant and the
   Department, and completed proof of service must accompany the original
   filed with the Board.

                          FINAL ORDERS OF THE BOARD

                          Board Action in an Appeal

   Vehicle Code § 3054 gives the Board the power to reverse or amend a
   decision of the Department for any of the following reasons:

   1. The Department has proceeded without or in excess of its
   jurisdiction;

   2. The Department has proceeded in manner contrary to the law;

   3. The decision is not supported by the findings;

   4. The findings are not supported by the weight of the evidence in the
   light of the whole record reviewed in its entirety, including any and
   all relevant evidence adduced at any hearing of the Board;

   5. There is relevant evidence, which in the exercise if reasonable
   diligence, could not have been produced or which was improperly
   excluded at the hearing; or

   6. The determination or penalty, as provided in the decision of the
   Department is not commensurate with the findings.

   The Board also has the power to amend, modify, or reverse the penalty
   imposed by the Department (see Vehicle Code § 3055). This power has
   been construed by the courts to include the ability to increase
   penalties set by the Department (Toyota of Visalia v. Department of
   Motor Vehicles(1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 315, 202 Cal.Rptr.190; appeal after
   remand, (1987) 188 Cal.App.3d 872, 233 Cal.Rptr. 708).


                           Determination of Appeal

   I [btn_top.gif] n all cases, the Board is required to enter its order
   within 60 days after the appeal is filed unless there is an unavoidable
   delay in receiving the administrative record. Should the Board issue an
   order reversing a decision of the Department, the Board may direct the
   Department to reconsider the matter and take further action (see
   Vehicle Code § 3056).

   The Board's order must be in writing and becomes final upon delivery of
   copies to the parties. The Board will fix an effective date for its
   orders not more than 30 days from the date the order is served or
   remand the matter back to the Department for fixing an effective date
   (see Vehicle Code § 3057).



                             Back to Top of Page
      2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
                 © 2001 California New Motor Vehicle Board
