http://mitchnts1.cr.usgs.gov/projects/groundwater.html

   link to USGS home page

   USGS Hurricane Mitch Program Projects

   Groundwater Availability
   Project Chief:  Wes Meehan
   Phone:520-670-6671
   Email:wdmeehan@usgs.gov
   Project Summary
   Groundwater Availability: Groundwater with truck in background

   Honduras relies on its ground-water supply for much of its domestic,
   agricultural, and industrial water-supply needs. As the Nation's
   population grows, the necessity to monitor and control both
   surface-water and ground-water resources is becoming a critical issue.
   The historical use of surface water as a means of transport and
   disposal of untreated wastes from farming, ranching, and domestic
   sources has rendered most surface water in the country unfit for human
   consumption. This places an even greater importance on the proper
   assessment, monitoring, and development of ground water as the only
   realistic clean-water alternative.
   Previous attempts to monitor the availability and quality of ground
   water have been limited to specific geographic areas, or of temporary
   duration, or based on outmoded scientific methods or dated computer
   technology. Honduras currently has no effective ground-water monitoring
   programs at any governmental level. This program will (1) enable
   Hondurans to monitor and control development of this resource in order
   to maximize its benefit in the future, (2) provide water-resources
   information that will be used by multiple parties for planning and
   operational purposes, (3) furnish hydrologic data or information that
   contribute to protection of life and property, and (4) contribute data
   to national data bases that will be used to advance the understanding
   of regional and temporal variations in hydrologic conditions.
   Objectives
   This project will establish a computer data base for ground-water
   monitoring and assessment; provide investigative reports for use by
   Honduran ground-water developers and decision-makers; and train
   Honduran personnel in all aspects of data collection, data base
   management, complex ground-water investigations, and sustainable
   development of ground-water resources.
   Approach
   This project began with the understanding that all future operations
   and improvements will eventually be the responsibility of Honduran
   agencies and individuals, and that the program will not end with the
   termination of this project period. A computer data base is being
   established that uses readily available hardware and software and will
   be populated with all available ground-water data including
   site-specific information as well as regional studies and maps. Using
   privately contracted companies, additional data will be collected and
   new studies will be performed. This project will be limited to Honduras
   and will have both national and local perspectives. The project will
   assemble all existing data and reports pertaining to the ground water
   of Honduras and will oversee the collection of new data, the creation
   of new investigations, the development of ground-water resources based
   on all available information, and the training of Honduran personnel.
   At the end of the project each designated Honduran counterpart will be
   able to operate their part of this project with only minimal oversight.
   Interested individuals and groups within Honduras will be able to
   understand and support efforts to develop ground water as a sustainable
   resource.
   Cooperating Agencies
   USGS, USAID, SANAA, DIMA, FUNDEMUN, and 23 partners with limited
   involvement.
   Source Data
   Numerous partial groundwater databases existed at the start of this
   project. These data bases were held by local and national Honduran
   government agencies, foreign governments, and private relief
   organizations. Formats, and overall quality, varied greatly. Data from
   all known sources is being collected, reformatted, and verified.
   Additional new data are being collected for existing and new wells.
   Over 1,200 reports of various types have been identified.
   Products
   The primary product of this project is the computer database.
   Additional products include GIS layers for 41 selected municipalities
   showing all known wells and other groundwater features within their
   local areas. At the end of the project, a USGS publication containing
   the database will be published.
   Locations
   Over 2,200 wells have been identified to date, with locations
   throughout Honduras. Specific attention is being paid to wells and
   other features within 41 selected municipalities.
   Data
   The current data base contains information on at least 2,200 wells and
   1,200 reports. All well data, and bibliographic references for the
   reports, will eventually reside in an ACCESS database, accessible via a
   web page.
   Project Tour
   No information available


    U.S. Department of the Interior
    U.S. Geological Survey
    EROS Data Center International Program
    URL: http://mitchnts1.cr.usgs.gov/projects/groundwater.html
    Maintainer:  cbreen@usgs.gov
    Last Update: Tuesday, December 04, 2001
