http://www.nist.gov/public_affairs/researchers.htm

   Information for Researchers


       The National Institute of Standards and Technology conducts and
     supports scientific and engineering research in disciplines ranging
    from chemistry and physics to information technology. In carrying out
   this research, NIST works collaboratively with colleagues in industry,
    academia, and government. Research tools developed at NIST--including
   measurement methods, standards, data, and various technologies--assist
   industrial, academic, and government scientists worldwide. To help you
     find the information you need, we've grouped a number of pertinent
   links on this page. If you don't find what you're looking for, contact
    our Public Inquiries office at (301) 975-NIST or inquiries@nist.gov.

       Measurement and standards research--brief descriptions of NIST
                 Laboratories and links to their web sites.

    Research/manufacturing partnerships--information on how to work with
                         NIST on specific projects.

     Funding opportunities--descriptions of grants available from NIST.

     Databases--links to a number of NIST databases and data collections
     some of which can be downloaded for free; others must be purchased.

       Physical Reference Data --recommended values of the fundamental
     constants, guidelines for expressing measurement uncertainty, and a
       tutorial on SI--the international systems of measurement units.

        Software--links to NIST software programs available for free
   downloading, including programs to help evaluate and test software, to
     model fire and smoke plumes, and to allow personal computers to set
                   their clocks to the NIST atomic clock.

   Standard Reference Materials--reference artifacts characterized by NIST
                for specific physical or chemical properties.

   Calibration services--directly link a customer's measurement equipment
                  to national and international standards.

      Laboratory acceditation--third-party accreditation of public and
         private laboratories based on evaluation of their technical
     qualifications and competence to carry out specific calibrations or
                                   tests.

       Standards information--brief descriptions of a variety of NIST
                        standards-related activities.

     Research facilities--A number of NIST's valuable R&D facilities are
    available for use by U.S. organizations under agreed upon conditions.
   For example, when an organization is working cooperatively with NIST on
   a research project of mutual interest, it generally has the same access
       to NIST R&D facilities as a NIST researcher. In these types of
    arrangements, the research plan, resource contributions, and facility
      use details are outlined in the specific collaborative agreement.

   NIST Research Library--a number of NIST resources are available to all
                                researchers.

     Office of International and Academic Affairs--assists foreign guest
      researchers, coordinates short- term visits of foreign nationals,
       serves as the focal point for NIST's cooperation with academic
                                institutions.

   Postdoctoral research program--provides two-year temporary appointments
     to NIST for 50 outstanding scientists and engineers chosen annually
    through a national competition administered by the National Research
                Council of the National Academy of Sciences.

                      Employment opportunities at NIST

        Visitor information--directions to NIST, information on local
                           restaurants and hotels.

     See also: What NIST Does, Work with Us, Products and Services, A-Z
             Subject Index, How to Contact NIST, NIST Home Page

                            Date created: 9/6/00
                            Last updated: 6/8/01
                         Contact: inquiries@nist.gov
