http://turners.nichd.nih.gov/ClinicalText2.html


   Clinical Features of Turner Syndrome
   Turner syndrome affects approximately 1 out of every 2,500 female live
   births worldwide. It embraces a broad spectrum of features, from major
   heart defects to minor cosmetic issues. Some individuals with Turner
   syndrome may have only a few features, while others may have many.
   Almost all people with Turner syndrome have short stature and loss of
   ovarian function, but the severity of these problems varies
   considerably amongst individuals.

              The links to the left will allow you to navigate
                         through the following text:


    Appearance

   Individuals with Turner syndrome may have a short neck with a webbed
   appearance, a low hairline at the back of the neck, and low-set ears.
   Hands and feet of affected individuals may be swollen or puffy at
   birth, and often have soft nails that turn upward at the ends when they
   are older. All these features appear to be due to obstruction of the
   lymphatic system during fetal development. Another characteristic
   cosmetic feature is the presence of multiple pigmented nevi, which are
   colored spots on the skin.


    Short Stature

   Almost all individuals with Turner syndrome have short stature. This is
   partially due to the loss of action SHOX gene on the X-chromosome. This
   particular gene is important for long bone growth. The loss of SHOX may
   also explain some of the skeletal features found in Turner syndrome,
   such as short fingers and toes, and irregular rotations of the wrist
   and elbow joints. Linear growth is attenuated in utero, and statural
   growth lags during childhood and adolescence, resulting in adult
   heights of 143-145 cm (approximately 4 feet 8 inches). Final adult
   height in Turner syndrome can be increased by a few inches if growth
   hormone (GH) treatment is given relatively early in childhood. However,
   not all individuals with Turner syndrome get a good growth response to
   GH.


    Puberty/Reproduction

   Unknown genes on the X-chromosome regulate the development and
   functions of the ovary. Most individuals with Turner syndrome
   experience loss of ovarian function early in childhood, and thus do not
   enter puberty at the normal age.

   Some teenagers may undergo some breast development and begin
   menstruating, but cease further development and menses during the later
   teen years. A few women with Turner syndrome have apparently normal
   ovarian function with regular menses until the mid-20s before ovarian
   failure occurs. A few spontaneous pregnancies have been reported.

   It is standard medical practice to treat girls with Turner syndrome
   with estrogen to induce breast development and other features of
   puberty if menses has not occurred by age 15 years at the latest. Girls
   and women with Turner syndrome should be maintained on
   estrogen-progesterone treatment to maintain their secondary sexual
   development and to protect their bones from osteoporosis until at least
   the usual age of menopause (50 years).

   Most women with Turner syndrome do not have ovaries with healthy
   oocytes capable of fertilization and embryo formation. Current assisted
   reproductive technology, however, may allow women to become pregnant
   with donated oocytes.


    Cardiovascular

   From 5-10% of children with Turner syndrome are found to have a severe
   constriction of the major blood vessel coming out from the heart, a
   condition known as "coarctation of the aorta." This defect is thought
   to be the result of an obstructed lymphatic system compressing the
   developing aorta during fetal life. This can be surgically corrected as
   soon as it is diagnosed.

   Other major defects in the heart and its major vessels are reported to
   a much lesser degree. As many as 15% of adults with Turner syndrome are
   reported to have "bicuspid aortic valves," meaning that the major blood
   vessel from the heart has only two rather than three components to the
   valve regulating blood flow. This condition has been discovered mainly
   by medical imaging studies on women without symptoms, and may not be
   clinically obvious. It requires careful medical monitoring, since
   bicuspid aortic valves can deteriorate or become infected. In general,
   it is advised that all persons with Turner syndrome undergo annual
   cardiac evaluations.

   Many women with Turner syndrome have high blood pressure, which may be
   apparent even in childhood. In some cases this high blood pressure may
   be due to aortic constriction, or to kidney abnormalities (see Kidney
   section below). In a majority of women, however, no specific cause for
   the high blood pressure has been found.


    Kidney

   Kidney problems are present in approximately 1/3 of individuals with
   Turners and may contribute to high blood pressure. Three types of
   kidney problems have been reported: a single horseshoe-shaped kidney,
   as opposed to two distinct, bean-shaped structures; an abnormal urine
   collecting system; or an abnormal artery supply to the kidneys. While
   these problems may be corrected surgically and the kidneys usually
   function normally, they may be associated with a tendency towards high
   blood pressure and infections.


    Osteoporosis

   There is a high incidence of osteoporosis--meaning thin or weak
   bones--in women with Turner syndrome. Osteoporosis leads to loss of
   height, curvature of the spine and increased bone fractures.

   The primary cause of osteoporosis in individuals with Turners appears
   to be inadequate circulating estrogen in the body. Turner women who
   have low levels of estrogen due to ovarian failure can take estrogen
   treatments, which will help prevent osteoporosis. It is possible that
   other factors contribute to the severity of osteoporosis in Turner
   syndrome. For example, there may be defects in bone structure or
   strength related to the loss of unknown X-chromosome genes. This is an
   area of major medical significance, which demands further study to help
   prevent osteoporosis and fractures in women with Turner syndrome.


    Diabetes

   Type II diabetes, also known as insulin resistant diabetes (glucose
   intolerance), has a high occurrence rate in individuals with Turner
   syndrome.

   Individuals with Turner syndrome have twice the risk of the general
   population for developing this disease. It appears that the muscles of
   many persons with Turner syndrome fail to utilize glucose efficiently,
   and this may contribute to the development of high blood sugar
   (diabetes).

   The reason for the high risk of diabetes amongst individuals with
   Turner syndrome is unknown.

   Diabetes type II can be controlled through careful monitoring of
   blood-sugar levels, diet, exercise, regular doctor visits and sometimes
   medication.


    Thyroid

   Approximately 1/3 of individuals with Turner syndrome have a thyroid
   disorder, usually hypothyroidism. Symptoms of this condition include
   decreased energy, dry skin, cold-intolerance and poor growth.

   In most cases, it is caused by an immune system attack on the thyroid
   gland (also known as Hashimoto's thyroiditis). Although it is not known
   why thyroid disorders occur with a high frequency in Turner syndrome,
   the condition is easily treated with thyroid hormone supplements.


    Cognitive Function/Educational Issues

   In general, individuals with Turner syndrome have normal intelligence.
   This is in contrast to other chromosomal syndromes such as Down's
   syndrome (Trisomy 21). However, girls and women with Turner syndrome
   may have difficulty with specific visual-spatial coordination tasks
   (e.g. mentally rotating objects in space) and learning math (geometry,
   arithmetic). This very specific learning problem has been termed the
   "Turner neurocognitive phenotype" and appears due to loss of
   X-chromosome genes important for selected aspects of nervous system
   development.

   Some girls and women with Turner syndrome experience difficulties with
   memory and motor coordination. These problems may be related to
   estrogen deficiency and individuals often improve when given estrogen
   treatment. The verbal skills of individuals with Turner syndrome are
   usually normal.
