http://www.accessamerica.gov/docs/informationtechnology.html

   [USEMAP:headinfotech.gif]
   [USEMAP:leftnavs.gif]


                                 VISION:
   Improve the Sharing of Information Technology Experience Worldwide
                             Full statement

   Story Archive

      [blueprintDNA.gif] Everything You Need to Know about the Amazing Human
      Genome Project
      On June 26 with British Prime Minister Tony Blair, President Clinton
      announced that the international Human Genome Project and Celera
      Genomics Corporation have both completed an initial sequencing of the
      genetic blueprint for human beings. More than 1,000 researchers across
      six nations have laid out nearly all 3 billion letters of our genetic
      code. On this webpage, you'll find documents and a webcast detailing
      this scientific feat that will revolutionize the diagnosis, prevention
      and treatment of most human diseases.

      Labor of Love: Recycling CD-ROMs Abroad
      [cd.gif] Matthew Love of Washington State's Department of
      Transportation teamed up with the Pan American Institute of Highways to
      recycle obsolete engineering CD-ROMs to countries that are thrilled to
      get them. It keeps environmentally unfriendly plastic out of landfills
      and helps transportation departments overseas. Can other organizations
      use this model?

      [globalnews.gif] Online Newsletter Features Reinventing Government
      Worldwide
      The General Services Administration's recent Intergovernmental
      Solutions online newsletter contains more than 40 articles on
      reinvention initiatives--many using information technology--in federal
      agencies, state and local governments, and countries from around the
      world.

      Manitoba Government: A New Vision for Service Delivery
      [manitoba.gif] The Manitoba Government in Canada is developing a common
      technology infrastructure that it can ultimately apply across all
      government departments. This will mean more comprehensive services in
      the future.

      Track Santa Here
      [santa.gif] Starting Christmas Eve, you can track Santa's location
      online as he delivers toys to children over the globe. The tracking
      program started 44 years ago thanks to the predecessor of the North
      American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD) in Colorado Springs, CO. A
      local store advertised a Santa hotline, but the telephone number
      printed was that of the Director of Operations for the then Continental
      Air Defense Command. When Colonel Harry Shoup received the first Santa
      call, he had his staff check radar data to see if Santa was making his
      way south from the North Pole. Indeed he was and staff gave updates to
      the children who called. When the United States and Canada formed NORAD
      in 1957, the organization continued tracking this important annual
      airborne mission. This holiday season, volunteers from Cheyenne
      Mountain and Peterson Air Force Base staff the phone lines, the US
      Space Command provides satellite information, and private sector
      organizations pitch in to support the website.

      We're Looking for Stories
      Federal workers are doing amazing things to deliver government services
      electronically. Government workers in other nations are doing the same.
      Access America E-Gov E-Zine is looking for stories about federal
      agencies, or multi-agency partnerships, that are working with other
      nations to share information and technologies to improve their services
      to citizens.

      These stories can be short, as in a "byte" of about 150 words, or they
      can be longer feature stories. Write feature stories in plain language
      with quotes from agency officials and employees who can describe the
      benefits of this international exchange of technical information.

      Include a contact person with phone number and email address. Send your
      stories to pat.wood@npr.gov or pat.smith@gsa.gov. If you need more
      information, call Pat Wood, National Partnership for Reinventing
      Government, (202) 694-0063. Please pass this request along to others
      who may be interested.
