http://www.nwifc.wa.gov/shellfish/

   FRAME: contents
   FRAME: main

   Tribal Shellfish Resource Management

   Introduction

   Shellfish have been a mainstay of western Washington’s Indian tribes
   for thousands of years. Clams, crab, oysters, shrimp, and many other
   species were readily available year ‘round. The relative ease with
   which large amounts could be harvested, cured, and stored for later
   consumption made shellfish an important source of nutrition – second
   only in importance to salmon.

   [man1.jpg] Shellfish remain important for subsistence, economic, and
   ceremonial purposes. With the rapid decline of many salmon stocks, due
   to habitat loss from western Washington’s unrelenting growth in the
   human population, shellfish harvesting has become a major factor in
   tribal economies.

   The tribes have used shellfish in trade with the non-Indian population
   since the first white settlers came into the region a century and a
   half ago. Newspaper accounts from the earliest days of the Washington
   Territory tell of Indians selling or trading fresh shellfish with
   settlers. Shellfish harvested by members of western Washington’s Indian
   tribes is highly sought after throughout the United States and the Far
   East. Tribal representatives have gone on trade missions to China and
   other Pacific Rim nations where Pacific Northwest shellfish –
   particularly geoduck – is in great demand. Trade with the Far East is
   growing in importance as the tribes struggle to achieve financial
   security through a natural resources-based economy.

   Treaty Shellfish Rights

   As with salmon, the tribes’ guarantees to harvest shellfish lie within
   a series of treaties signed with representatives of the federal
   government in the mid-1850s. Language pertaining to tribal shellfish
   harvesting included this section:

   "The right of taking fish at usual and accustomed grounds and stations
   is further secured to said Indians, in common with all citizens of the
   United States; and of erecting temporary houses for the purposes of
   curing; together with the privilege of hunting and gathering roots and
   berries on open and unclaimed lands. Provided, however, that they not
   take shell-fish from any beds staked or cultivated by citizens."

   (Treaty With the S’Klallam, Jan. 26, 1855)

   In exchange for the peaceful settlement of what is today most of
   western Washington, the tribes reserved the right to continue to
   harvest finfish and shellfish at all of their usual and accustomed
   grounds and stations. The tribes were specifically excluded from
   harvesting shellfish from areas "staked or cultivated" by non-Indian
   citizens.

   Soon after they were signed, the treaties were forgotten or ignored.
   The influx of non-Indian settlers into western Washington continued to
   grow with each passing year, and the tribes were slowly excluded from
   their traditional shellfish and finfish harvest areas.

   Tribal efforts to have the federal government’s treaty promises kept
   began in the first years of the 20^th Century when the United States
   Supreme Court ruled in U.S. v. Winans that where a treaty reserves the
   right to fish at all usual and accustomed places, a state may not
   preclude tribal access to those places.

   Sixty years later, the tribes were again preparing for battle in court.
   After many years of harassment, beatings and arrests for exercising
   their treaty-reserved rights, western Washington tribes took the State
   of Washington to federal court to have their rights legally
   re-affirmed. In 1974, U.S. District Court Judge George Boldt ruled that
   the tribes had reserved the right to half of the harvestable salmon and
   steelhead in western Washington.

   The "Boldt Decision," which was upheld by the U.S. Supreme Court, also
   re-established the tribes as co-managers of the salmon and steelhead
   resources in western Washington.

   As a result of this ruling, the tribes became responsible for
   establishing fishing seasons, setting harvest limits, and enforcing
   tribal fishing regulations. Professional biological staffs, enforcement
   officers, and managerial staff were assembled to ensure orderly,
   biologically-sound fisheries.

   Beginning in the late 1970s, tribal and state staff have worked
   together to develop comprehensive fisheries that ensure harvest
   opportunity for Indian and non-Indian like, and also preserve the
   resource for generations to come.

   It was within this new atmosphere of cooperative management that the
   tribes sought to restore their treaty-reserved rights to manage and
   harvest shellfish from all usual and accustomed areas. Talks with their
   state counterparts began in the mid-1980s, but were unsuccessful. The
   tribes filed suit in federal court in May 1989 to have their shellfish
   harvest rights restored.

   The filing of the lawsuit brought about years of additional
   negotiations between the tribes and the state. Despite many serious
   attempts at reaching a negotiated settlement, the issue went to trial
   in May 1994.


   The Rafeedie Decision

   Federal Circuit Court Judge Edward Rafeedie heard nearly three weeks of
   testimony from tribal elders, biologists, and treaty experts, as well
   as testimony from private property owners, non-Indian commercial
   shellfish growers, and state employees.

   [man3.jpg] Tribal elders testified in court how their parents and
   grandparents taught them to harvest clams, oysters, squid, octopus and
   barnacles from different areas. They testified of learning to dry clams
   and other seafood for later use.

   Tribal shellfish biologists and fishery managers testified about
   current harvest management activities, including all of the management
   planning that occurs prior to a shellfish harvest, as well as
   monitoring programs in place to ensure harvests are properly conducted.

   As with the court battle to have their rights to salmon restored, the
   tribes’ arguments in the shellfish trial centered around the Stevens
   Treaties – specifically what the treaty language meant at the time.

   Rafeedie’s decision, which came on Dec. 20 1994, ruled strongly in
   favor of the tribes. As with the Boldt Decision of two decades earlier,
   Rafeedie ruled that the treaties’ "in common" language meant that the
   tribes had reserved harvest rights. In this instance, the tribes
   reserved the right to harvest up to half of all shellfish from all of
   their usual and accustomed places, except those areas "staked or
   cultivated" by citizens.

   "¼In interpreting the shellfish proviso, the court must focus on what
   the Indians intended: The record unequivocally reflects the Indians’
   insistence on reserving the right to fish as they always had, and the
   record is devoid of any objections or concern over their exclusion from
   ancient fisheries," Rafeedie wrote in his decision.

   "A treaty is not a grant of rights to the Indians, but a grant of
   rights from them" to white settlers, he wrote. Noting the "paternal
   pose" federal treaty negotiators took with the tribes, Judge Rafeedie
   wrote in his decision that the United States promised the tribes would
   have a permanent right to fish as they always had.

   "This right was promised as a sacred entitlement, one which the United
   States had a moral obligation to protect. The court may not rewrite the
   treaties or interpret the treaties in a way contrary to settled law
   simply to avoid or minimize hardship to the public or to the
   intervenors (private property owners and commercial shellfish
   growers)," Rafeedie wrote.

   Rafeedie ruled that all public and private tidelands within the case
   area are subject to treaty harvest, except for shellfish contained in
   artificially-created beds. Rafeedie’s decision requires harvesting
   tribes to follow several time, place, and manner of harvest
   restrictions.

   For example, accurate shellfish surveys must first be conducted, and
   the tribes must inform private property owners of their intent to
   harvest well in advance. Harvesting can occur no more than five days
   per year on any given private beach with less than 200 feet of
   shoreline. Also, tribal shellfish harvesters can cross privately-owned
   uplands to reach shellfish areas, but only if no water or public upland
   access is available.

   The court’s ruling covers 15 tribes: Jamestown S’Klallam, Lower Elwha
   Klallam, Lummi, Makah, Muckleshoot, Nisqually, Nooksack, Port Gamble
   S’Klallam, Puyallup, Skokomish, Squaxin Island, Suquamish, Swinomish,
   Tulalip, and Upper Skagit.

   Rafeedie’s ruling also included a detailed implementation plan that
   included a dispute resolution process.

   The Appeals Process

   Attorneys for the tribes, the United States, the State of Washington,
   commercial shellfish growers and private property owners all presented
   arguments to the U.S. Court of Appeals in May, 1997.

   The tribes and United States argued that Rafeedie’s limitations to
   accessing private tidelands for harvest, along with his definition of
   cultivated shellfish beds, were too restrictive and denied the tribes
   the ability to exercise their treaty-reserved rights on too many
   beaches.

   The tribes also argued that Judge Rafeedie’s requirement that the
   tribes primarily use water access to reach harvest sites on private
   tidelands would jeopardize the safety of tribal harvesters.

   The state, in an attempt to monopolize the lucrative deepwater
   shellfish market, argued that the tribes have the right to harvest only
   those species they harvested at treaty time, and at specific places.
   Commercial shellfish growers argued that any shellfish bed, whether a
   naturally occurring bed or not, was "staked or cultivated" if a grower
   did anything to improve the bed or simply marked the bed’s boundaries
   with stakes, rendering them off-limits to tribal harvesting.

   On Jan. 28, the court unanimously upheld Rafeedie’s decision that
   restored the tribes’ treaty rights, re-stating that the tribes have
   rights to harvest 50 percent of deepwater and free-swimming species,
   plus a 50 percent share of all shellfish on unleased state tidelands,
   regardless of whether the beds were created or enhanced by the state.

   The court’s ruling also provides the tribes with access to portions of
   commercial shellfish growers’ beds. Specifically, the court said the
   tribes have a right to 50 percent of the shellfish from growers’ beds
   that would be naturally present if the growers had not done any
   enhancement. The court placed the burden of proof on the growers to
   demonstrate what percentage of shellfish on their property resulted
   from their efforts.

   The appellate panel upheld most of the time, place, and manner of
   access and harvest restrictions that Rafeedie had placed upon tribal
   harvests from private tidelands.

   Some commercial growers and private property rights groups have already
   expressed an interest in appealing the case to the U.S. Supreme Court.


   The Era Of Cooperation

   Despite the ongoing court process, the tribes are fully involved in the
   management of their treaty-reserved shellfish resources. Tribal
   shellfish managers have developed harvest management and
   supplementation plans. Harvest data is being collected and shared with
   the state co-managers.

   One of the greatest positive steps in western Washington occurred this
   past summer on a small beach along Hood Canal. It is one example of how
   tribes and individual tideland owners are cooperatively implementing
   judge Rafeedie’s decision.

   In February 1997, a tidelands owner signed a shellfish management
   agreement with the Point No Point Treaty Council, a natural resources
   consortium representing the Skokomish, Port Gamble S’Klallam, Jamestown
   S’Klallam, and Lower Elwha Klallam tribes. The agreement includes
   provisions for population surveys, harvest planning and potential
   cooperative shellfish enhancement activities.

   In August 1997, several members of the Skokomish Indian Tribe harvested
   about 100 dozen oysters from the tideland owner’s property for a
   celebration honoring the tribe’s elders. The harvest was conducted
   under the supervision of the tribe’s fisheries manager and the tideland
   owner’s family. Thousands of oysters remained on the beach after the
   harvest was completed.

   The cooperative management agreement and subsequent tribal harvest are
   models of cooperation that can be emulated throughout western
   Washington. The tideland owner has lobbied neighboring beachfront
   owners to follow his lead and develop harvest management agreements
   with the tribes.

   Similar management agreements are being cooperatively developed between
   tribes and private tideland owners in other regions of western
   Washington.

   Public Health

   Shellfish growing areas are routinely surveyed for current or potential
   pollution impacts, and are classified based on the results of frequent
   survey information. No shellfish harvest is conducted on beaches that
   have not been certified by the tribes and the Washington Department of
   Health. Growing areas are regularly monitored for water quality status
   and naturally-occurring biotoxins to protect the public health

   Conclusion

   The future of western Washington’s thriving shellfish resources relies
   upon cooperative management between the tribes and their state
   counterparts. The tribes’ long-standing conservation ethic encourages
   everyone to take only what is needed, and to protect the environment so
   that all may share in this and other natural resources for generations
   to come.

      Question and Answers
   on Treaty Shellfish Rights



   Western Washington Indian tribes have depended upon shellfish as a
   source of food and for trade or income for thousands of years.

   A desire to ensure peace between the Indians and an ever-growing flood
   of settlers to the region led to a series of treaties between the
   tribes and federal representatives from the territorial government in
   the mid 1850s.

   [man2.jpg] In exchange for access to hundreds of thousands of acres of
   tribal lands, the tribes reserved in the treaties the right to harvest
   fish -- including shellfish -- from all of their usual and accustomed
   areas:

          “The right of taking fish at usual and accustomed grounds and
          stations is further secured to said Indians, in common with all
          citizens of the United States...Provided, however, that they
          shall not take shell-fish from any beds staked or cultivated by
          citizens.”                      -- Treaty With The S’Klallam,
          Jan. 26, 1855

   It is important to remember that these rights were not granted by the
   federal government. These rights were specifically reserved by the
   tribes. The treaties were not a grant of rights to the tribes, but a
   grant of rights from the tribes to the settlers. On Dec. 20, 1994, U.S.
   District Court Judge Edward Rafeedie upheld the tribes’ position. The
   species covered in the ruling include clams, oysters, and free-swimming
   shellfish such as crab and shrimp, and subtidal shellfish, such as
   geoduck, sea urchin, and sea cucumber. Rafeedie ruled that the tribes
   have the right to take up to 50 percent of the harvestable shellfish on
   western Washington beaches, except shellfish from artificial beds. The
   federal appellate court later ruled the tribes have rights to 50
   percent of shellfish that would be naturally present on commercial
   shellfish growers' beaches if the growers had not done any enhancement.
   The court further ruled that the tribes do have a right harvest
   shellfish from unleased state-owned tidelands, regardless of whether
   the the beds were created or enhanced by the state.

   Rafeedie issued an implementation plan for his decision in 1995. The
   plan outlines the steps the tribes must take before a harvest on
   private or commercial tidelands can occur, and it establishes a dispute
   resolution process.

   The tribes and state worked for several years to negotiate a
   settlement, and the tribes remain open to further discussions. In the
   meantime, the tribes and state have developed or continue to develop
   management plans for harvests of free-swimming and deepwater species,
   and inter-tidal species on state beaches.

   This document was prepared by the treaty Indian tribes through the
   Northwest Indian Fisheries commission and is intended to answer some of
   the more commonly asked questions regarding treaty shellfish harvest
   rights.

   Question: What is the present status of the court case?

          Answer: On Jan. 28, 1998, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals
          issued a decision upholding the tribes' treaty shellfish rights.
          Some portions of Judge Rafeedie's decision were remanded back to
          his court for further clarification. It is expected that other
          parties to the case will appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court.

   Question: Why do tribal members get to come onto private property and
   harvest shellfish?

          Answer: Washington state is one of the few states in the nation
          where tidelands are privately owned. Most states have kept
          tidelands in public hands so everyone can enjoy them. The state
          sold off the tidelands several decades after the treaties were
          signed in the 1850s that promised the tribes half of the
          shellfish. The treaty right to harvest shellfish was never
          extinguished; the sale of tidelands did not change the tribes’
          treaty right.

   Question: In what kind of harvesting do the tribes participate?

          Answer: The tribes conduct commercial, ceremonial and
          subsistence harvest for shellfish and finfish. Commercial
          harvests allow tribal members the opportunity to sell the
          shellfish products they harvest. Ceremonial harvests are
          intended for use in weddings, funerals and other traditional
          gatherings, while subsistence harvests are intended to provide
          tribal members with food.

   Question: How will a property owner know when a shellfish harvest is
   going to occur?

          Answer: Several steps must be taken before any tribal harvesting
          can occur on a beach, and the property owner will get notice of
          these steps. The tribes are required to conduct shellfish
          population surveys and estimates before any harvesting can
          occur. It would be impossible to determine what the tribes’
          share of naturally occurring shellfish is on a beach without
          current information.
          A population survey can occur no more than once every year, and
          its cost must be paid for by the tribes. All information will be
          shared with the property owner and the Washington Department of
          Fish and Wildlife (WDFW). Surveys will be generally be conducted
          during low tide episodes in the spring and summer.
          If the population survey indicates there is sufficient shellfish
          on the property to sustain a tribal harvest, then a tribal
          regulation opening that property for shellfish harvesting will
          be issued. Notice will be sent to the property owner and WDFW.
          The notice will include the quantity of shellfish that may be
          taken, the purpose of the harvest (commercial, subsistence or
          ceremonial), and the dates and times when the harvest will take
          place. The name, address, and telephone number of the tribal
          representative responsible for the harvest will also be included
          in the notice.

   Question: What if there aren’t many clams or oysters on a beach?

          Answer: If the shellfish surveys indicate a beach doesn’t
          contain shellfish in sufficient quantity, no harvesting would
          occur.

   Question: Do property owners have any recourse if they disagree with a
   population assessment?

          Answer: Yes. Property owners are entitled to have their own
          scientifically valid population assessment done at their own
          expense. If such an assessment differs from the tribe’s results,
          the property owner may bring that discrepancy to the attention
          of the tribe in writing. If the property owner and the tribe
          cannot resolve the difference, either the property owner or the
          tribe can initiate a trial in federal court before a special
          master designated by the court.
          Each party to such a trial must bear an equal share of the costs
          of the Special Master, as well as their own costs, unless the
          special master finds that one party’s position was not
          substantially justified, in which case that party bears all the
          costs of the special master.

   Question: Which tribes will be able to harvest shellfish from a
   particular beach?

          Answer: Fifteen western Washington tribes are covered by the
          ruling: Jamestown S'Klallam, Lower Elwha Klallam, Lummi, Makah,
          Muckleshoot, Nisqually, Nooksack, Port Gamble S'Klallam,
          Puyallup, Skokomish, Squaxin Island, Suquamish, Swinomish,
          Tulalip, and Upper Skagit.
          Each tribe has a “usual and accustomed” harvest area (U&A) that
          reflects the historical region in which finfish, shellfish, and
          other natural resources were collected. All tidelands in Puget
          Sound are within the usual and accustomed harvest areas of one
          or more tribe. Tribal members are allowed to exercise their
          treaty-protected harvest rights only within their tribe’s U&A.
          All tribal members must have a valid identification card to be
          eligible to harvest. The number of harvesters must be
          commensurate with the resource available for harvest.

   Question: Can non-Indian property owners harvest commercially from
   their property?

          Answer: Yes. Under state law, commercial harvests from privately
          owned tidelands can take place only from aquatic farms licensed
          by the state, or with a specific permit issued by the director
          of Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife. Also, private
          tidelands owners must have their beaches certified from the
          state Department of Health, and they must have signed
          authorization from a registered clam farmer in order to harvest
          clams commercially on intertidal ground. If the tidelands owner
          is a registered clam farmer, no authorization is necessary. If
          they lease the beach to a third party, that third party must be
          a registered clam farmer. If someone is hired to harvest, the
          harvester must have written authorization from the registered
          clam farmer.
          Once a tidelands owner has received notice from a tribe, the
          tidelands owner is limited to taking no more than half of the
          harvestable naturally occurring shellfish.

   Question: How will tribal shellfish harvesters access shellfish beds?

          Answer: The primary access to a harvest area will be via water
          or public access points, like parks, streets, or public boat
          launches. Upland access to harvest areas is allowed only with
          the upland owner’s permission, or if the special master
          determines water or public access is unavailable.

   Question: Who will ensure tribal harvesters won’t break any harvesting
   or access rules?

          Answer: Shellfish monitors and/or enforcement personnel will
          ensure the rules of the court’s decision and other tribal
          fishing regulations are followed.

   Question: What happens if a tribal shellfish harvester breaks a law
   while harvesting?

          Answer: If there are specific objections to the way a tribal
          member was using the beach, including littering, being
          disruptive or otherwise disobeying tribal fishing rules, contact
          the harvest monitor or tribal fisheries enforcement officer
          present on the beach, or contact the fisheries office listed on
          the regulation received prior to harvest.
          Tribal members suspected of breaking harvest guidelines or other
          tribal policies are subject to prosecution in the tribal court
          system. If found guilty, they can face a loss of fishing
          privileges and/or monetary fines.

   Question: How often will tribal harvesters be on a beach?

          Answer: According to Judge Rafeedie’s implementation plan, the
          tribes are allowed to harvest no more than five days per year on
          any given beach. One additional day of harvest opportunity will
          be granted for every additional 50 feet of beach over 200 feet
          in length. In most cases, the tribes will harvest fewer days per
          year than the maximum permitted by the court.

   Question: Won’t tribal shellfish harvesting deplete the resource?

          Answer: No. Judge Rafeedie’s ruling allows the tribes to harvest
          up to 50 percent of the harvestable surplus of shellfish, that
          is up to half of the shellfish not needed to sustain the
          species. Sound fisheries management practices will safeguard
          overall shellfish populations by only harvesting what can be
          taken without jeopardizing any particular species. The tribes
          employ fisheries scientists, managers, technicians and
          enforcement officers who work together to ensure resource
          populations are managed to provide a long-term sustainable
          harvest.

   Question: How can the public be assured that shellfish harvested by the
   tribes is safe to consume?

          Answer: The federal district court adopted a court order based
          on a 1994 tribal and state agreement which established a program
          to protect the public from contaminated shellfish. This court
          order ensures all shellfish harvested in the state meet federal
          health standards.
          The tribes are working on several levels to protect the public
          health. For several years, tribal shellfish biologists and
          technicians have been working with their counterparts in the
          Washington State Department of Health and federal Food and Drug
          Administration to ensure protection of public health. Only those
          growing areas that meed federal standards as approved harvest
          areas are open to tribal commercial harvesting.

   Question: How will the tribes know if changes in water quality occur
   and either worsen and contaminate shellfish, or improve and make more
   shellfish safe for harvest?

          Answer: The tribes and state collect samples of water and
          shellfish and have them analyzed for various contaminants prior
          to each harvest. The tribes monitor for the algae that cause
          paralytic shellfish poisoning (“red tide”) and amnesic shellfish
          poisoning (domoic acid), and for fecal coliform bacteria.
