http://www.ne.nrcs.usda.gov/nrd/lower_niobrara_nrd.asp

   Lower Niobrara NRD

   Home NE Photo Gallery Hot Topics and News Directory N R D ' s RC&D
   Helpful Links Technical Resources Programs and Services Career
   Opportunities Volunteer

Lower Niobrara NRD image      LOWER NIOBRARA NRD

   Office Information

   James H. Mathine
   District Conservationist
                           108 West N Street
                           Spencer, NE 68777
                                            Phone: (402) 589-9019
                                            Fax: (402) 589-1538

     Directory for Lower Niobrara NRD

     District Conservationist Biographical Sketch

     Resource Needs and Concerns

     Priorities Addressed by NRCS

     Primary Programs and Services
   District Conservationist Biographical Sketch
   [jim-mathine.gif]
   James H. Mathine
   District Conservationist
   Lower Niobrara NRD

     1985 -- Received Bachelor of Science Degree in Agronomy and
   Agricultural Economics from the University of Nebraska-Lincoln.
   I grew up on a farm in Knox County. I began with the Soil Conservation
   Service in 1984 as a student trainee. Upon graduation from UNL, I
   worked as a Soil Conservationist in Stanton and later as a District
   Conservationist in St. James, Minnesota. In 1990, I became the District
   Conservationist for the Lower Niobrara NRD in Butte, Nebraska.
   Resource Needs and Concerns
   In February 1997, the Lower Niobrara NRD's Local Work Group conducted a
   random survey throughout the District to help determine resource needs
   and concerns within the NRD. The survey indicated that the top three
   resource concerns were:
     * Water Quality
     * Soil Erosion
     * Rangeland Improvement

   The survey overwhelmingly indicated that the greatest need for program
   and financial assistance to address resource needs was in the areas of
   soil erosion and rangeland management. Other significant concerns
   include the need for flood control measures, improved wildlife habitat,
   and control of agrichemical runoff.
   Priorities Address by NRCS
   The top three priorities for the Lower Niobrara NRD are:
    1. Soil Erosion Reduction
    2. Water quality/quantity management
    3. Rangeland and pasture land improvement

   NRCS provides the technical leadership needed to implement many of the
   conservation practices used to address those concerns. The major kinds
   of technical assistance gained from NRCS to help achieve these
   priorities are:
     * Development of resource management plans with producers
     * Completing survey, design, and other field activities in response
       to producer requests
     * Oversight of practice implementation and maintenance

   Primary programs and services
   To address the resource needs and priorities within the District, the
   Local Work Group pushed for the acceptance of an EQIP priority area
   which was funded in 1998 in the northeast portion of the District. NRCS
   developed 21 long-term EQIP contracts within this priority area during
   1998. These contracts totaled over $238,000 and included a wide range
   of conservation practices. Most scheduled practices were for the
   purpose of soil erosion reduction and rangeland improvement. Other
   programs being used include NSWCP, CRP, 319 project area, WHIP, as well
   as local NRD programs. Most landowners discover that if they have a
   significant resource concern, NRCS is able to advise them with a
   specific program or a combination of programs that will solve their
   need.


   [blue_bar.gif]
   Partner Links: NRCS | USDA | NACD | FSA | RD | FS | CSREES
   [blue_bar.gif]

   United States Department of Agriculture
   Natural Resources Conservation Service
   Nebraska State Office
   100 Centennial Mall North, Room 152
   Lincoln, NE 68508
   Webmaster
