http://www.state.gov/p/sa/rt/c4172.htm



   globe                                             U.S. Department of State
         lines
                                  Home contact us FOIA Privacy Notice Archive

         About the State Department Press and Public Affairs Travel and Living
         Abroad
         Countries and Regions International Topics and Issues History,
         Education and Culture
         Business Center Other Services Employment


      Bureau of South Asian Affairs
      Regional Issues: Global Impact of Terrorism

   Afghan Issues

        * Human Rights
        * Humanitarian Assistance
        * Reconstruction
        * Related Information
        * 2001




Afghan Issues

   Afghanistan Embassy Opens in Washington
   AIA Chairman Hamid Karzai at the flag-raising at the Afghan Embassy in
   Washington (Offcial State Dept. photo) In a ceremony January 28, the
   flag of Afghanistan was raised above the Afghan embassy in Washington,
   D.C.

   AIA Chairman Hamid Karzai commented at the ceremony by saying, "Ladies
   and gentlemen, Under Secretary Armitage, it is a thrilling moment for
   us to have Afghanistan recognized again as a nation-state, as a
   government, and to have all of you distinguished ladies and gentlemen
   here to watch the raising of the Afghan flag at the Afghan Embassy.
   This flag and the ceremony today is raised not without costs, without
   the costs of having struggled for many years, without the cost of
   having lost so many lives in order to have a free, sovereign and good
   Afghanistan, an Afghanistan without the presence of threat of
   terrorism, an Afghanistan without the presence of threat of radicalism
   and all evil that both of them brought together to the people of
   Afghanistan and to the people of the United States of America."


   Highlights

   Afghan Refugee Camp Videos
   Several videos depict life in Afghan refugee camps.

   Women in Afghanistan
   Report: The Taliban's War Against Women.

   Fact Sheet
   The report: Women and Girls in Afghanistan.

                                    SEAL

   This site is managed by the Bureau of Public Affairs, U.S. Department
   of State. External links to other Internet sites should not be
   construed as an endorsement of the views contained therein.
