http://www.seatac.wa.gov/localmaps/index.htm

   [sealogoback.jpg]

   Home Page

   City Council

   Employment

   City Services

   Departments

   Parks/Recreation

   Municipal Code

   Other Agencies

   Website Index

   Local Maps

   Search

   [localmapshead.jpg]

                               City Home Page

                           Directions to City Hall

                                 Zoning Map

                           Comprehensive Plan Map



                                 DISCLAIMER

   The data available on this website including all maps, tables, numbers,
   graphics, and text (hereinafter collectively referred to as the
   "information"), is provided on an "AS IS", "AS AVAILABLE" and "WITH ALL
   FAULTS" basis. Neither the City of SeaTac nor any of its officials and
   employees makes any warranty of any kind for this information, express
   or implied, including but not limited to any warranties of
   merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose, nor shall the
   distribution of this information constitute any warranty.

   The information on this website is collected from various sources and
   will change over time without notice. The City of SeaTac and its
   officials and employees assume no responsibility or legal liability for
   the accuracy, completeness, reliability, timeliness, or usefulness of
   any information available on this website nor do they represent that
   the use of any information will not infringe privately owned rights.

   Information on this site is not intended to constitute advice nor is it
   to be used as a substitute for specific advice from a licensed
   professional. You should not act (or refrain from acting) based upon
   information in this site without independently verifying the
   information and, as necessary, obtaining professional advice regarding
   your particular facts and circumstances.

   References to any specific commercial product, process, service by
   trade name, trademark, or manufacturer do not constitute or imply
   endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by The City of SeaTac and its
   officials and employees.

   The identification of city-owned real property on this site is for
   informational purposes only. By identifying city-owned real property on
   this site as potentially available for leasing, permitting or licensing
   for antenna and/or other telecommunication facilities, the city does
   not warrant, guarantee, promise or in any way imply that the properties
   are suitable for such facilities, that the city will approve the use of
   the properties for such facilities, that such facilities will be
   permitted by the City of SeaTac or by any other government or
   governmental agency with jurisdiction or that such facilities are
   allowed by law. If you are interested in siting an antenna or
   telecommunication facility on city-owned real property, you should not
   act based upon information in this site without independently verifying
   the information and, as necessary, obtaining professional advice
   regarding your particular facts and circumstances. For further
   information concerning the leasing of city-owned real property for an
   antenna or other telecommunications facility, you should contact the
   City at 206.241.9100.

                                  Copyright

   The City of SeaTac reasonably believes that making this information
   available for your inspection on this website is not an infringement or
   other violation of any intellectual property rights. To the extent
   copyright in said information is held by the City of SeaTac, you are
   hereby permitted by the City of SeaTac to copy, distribute, and
   otherwise use the information with one exception. No one is permitted
   to sell this information except in accordance with a written agreement
   with the City of SeaTac.

   Provided, however, the information made available on this website
   contains material for which others may assert a copyright or other
   property interest. The City of SeaTac and its officials and employees
   make no warranty or guarantee as to the ownership of any intellectual
   property or other property interest contained in the information.
   Furthermore, the City of SeaTac expressly disclaims any responsibility
   to defend or indemnify you against claims which others may assert based
   on your copying, distribution, or other use of any of the information.

              Department of Assessments - Public Records Access

   Washington State law, RCW 42.17.260(9), prohibits the use of lists of
   individuals for "commercial purposes". The use for "commercial
   purposes" of said lists may also violate the rights of the
   individual(s) named therein and may subject the user to liability for
   such commercial use. When others use this information second-hand for
   "commercial purposes", the provider may be liable. "Commercial
   purposes" means that the person requesting the record(s) intends that
   the list will be used for general business purposes, including but not
   limited to communicating with the individual(s) named in the record(s)
   for the purpose of facilitating profit-expecting activity.

                                  [jet.gif]

    City Home Page | Directions to City Hall | Zoning Map | Comprehensive
                                  Plan Map
                                 Back to Top

                               City of SeaTac
                      17900 International. Blvd., #401
                           SeaTac, WA  98188-4236
                                 206.241.9100

                © 2001 City of SeaTac.  All rights reserved.
