http://vhaaidsinfo.cio.med.va.gov/privacy.htm


                   VA Headquarters Web Site Privacy Policy

   The privacy of our customers has always been of utmost importance to
   the Department of Veterans Affairs. The VA has a long history of
   protecting your privacy and our concern for your privacy is no
   different in the electronic age. Therefore, we collect no personal
   information about you when you visit our website unless you choose to
   provide this information to us.  However, we do collect and store
   certain information automatically.  Here is how we handle information
   about your visit to our website.

   What We Collect and Store Automatically

   If you do nothing during your visit but browse through the website,
   read pages, or download information, we will gather and store certain
   information about your visit automatically.  This information does not
   identify you personally.  We automatically collect and store only the
   following information about your visit:
     * The IP address (an IP address is a number that is assigned to each
       computer conected to the Internet) from which you access our
       website
     * The date and time you access our site
     * The pages you visit

   We use the information we collect to count the number and type of
   visitors to the different pages on our site and to help us make our
   site more useful to all visitors.

   If You Send Us E-mail

   You may choose to provide us with personal information, as when you
   send e-mail with a comment or question about our site.  We use the
   information to improve our service to you or to respond to your
   request. Sometimes we forward your e-mail to other government employees
   who may be better able to assist you.  Except for authorized law
   enforcement investigations, we do not share our e-mail with any other
   outside organizations.

   Links to Other Sites

   Our website has many links to our partners, especially other federal
   agencies.  In a few cases we link to private organizations. When you
   link to another site, you are no longer on our site and are subject to
   the privacy policy of the new site.
