http://aiep.state.gov/default.cfm?Page=About

   U.S. Department of State Art in Embassies Program
   AIEP Home Page
   AIEP About Page
   AIEP Exhibit Page
   AIEP Guidelines Page
   AIEP Artist Page
   AIEP Partner Page
   "The Art in Embassies Program turns artists into ambassadors for
   America"
          About AIEP
         Mission
       Tim Anderson, Writers, 1997 oil on canvas, 52x8 in courtesy of the
       artist, Chicago, IL The United States Department of State, Art in
       Embassies Program (AIEP) was created to promote national pride and
       a sense of the distinct cultural identity of America's art and its
       artists. This innovative program traverses cultural and language
       barriers by providing original works of art by U.S. citizens for
       the representational rooms of U.S. ambassadorial residences
       worldwide.
       AIEP exhibitions serve a dual purpose: first, to provide a visual
       experience and tangible example of the depth and quality of our
       nation's artistic heritage, and second, to enhance the physical
       beauty and representational functionality of embassy residences.
       U.S. ambassadors take great pride in these exhibitions and their
       multi-functional means of outreach to educational, cultural,
       business, and diplomatic communitites.
       Works of art exhibited through the Program encompass a variety of
       media and styles, ranging from 18^th century colonial portraiture
       to contemporary conceptual art (or abstract art). The thousands of
       guests that visit United States embassy residences each year have
       the rare opportunity to learn about our great nation, its customs,
       values, and aspirations through the international lines of
       communication that we call "Art".
       The Art in Embassies Program is proud to lead this global effort to
       support the artistic accomplishments of the people of the United
       States.
       Process
       Collaboration between ambassadors and Art in Embassies Program
       curators determine the development and scope of the exhibitions and
       the works of art to be included. This joint effort insures that the
       individual collections reflect the ambassador. s interests and
       vision, while remaining attentive to the host country. s cultural
       and political environments.
       AIEP has achieved its unparalleled success through extensive
       lending agreements with museums, institutions, galleries, corporate
       and private collectors, and artists. Loans are requested for a
       period of three years. Consolidation, crating, shipping and
       insurance coverage is funded by DOS, and coordinated by AIEP
       registrars and museum specialists in conjunction with embassy
       staff. AIEP currently manages over five thousand borrowed works of
       art valued at more than seventy million dollars.
       Lender/Donor Recognition
       The collection catalog is one of the most productive cultural and
       educational tools for use by U.S. ambassadors. It documents the
       collection, promotes the artists, and acknowledges the generosity
       of the lenders. Catalogs typically feature an introductory
       statement by the ambassador with an accompanying photograph, a
       description of the Art in Embassies Program, an image and title of
       each work of art, artist biographical summaries and lender credits.
       Wall labels are placed alongside the installed works of art, and
       each lender and donor receives formal acknowledgement from the
       ambassador and director of the Art in Embassies Program.

                          Art in Embasssies Program
                          U.S. Department of State
                                M/OBO/OM/ART
                            Washington, DC 20520
                                703-875-4202
                              FAX: 703-875-4182

                          To become an AIEP Partner
                                 Click Here

   Copyright by Art In Embassies Program, U.S. Department of State, 2000
   Privacy Notice | Disclaimers
