http://www.compliance.gov/images/johnson.pdf

   OFFICE OF COMPLIANCE LA 200, John Adams Building, 110 Second Street,
   S.E. Washington, DC 20540-1999 ) BETTY JEAN JOHNSON, )) Appellant, ) )
   v. )) Case No. 96-AC-25 (CV) THE OFFICE OF THE ARCHITECT ) OF THE
   CAPITOL )) Appellee. ) ____________________________________) Before the
   Board of Directors: Glen D. Nager, Chair; James N. Adler; Jerry M.
   Hunter; Lawrence Z. Lorber; Virginia A. Seitz, Members. DECISION OF THE
   BOARD OF DIRECTORS For the reasons stated in the opinions attached
   hereto, the Board hereby AFFIRMS the decision of the Hearing Officer in
   this case. It is so ordered. Issued, Washington, D.C., May 22, 1998.
   Chairman Nager, joined by Member Seitz, concurring in the judgment.
   Substantial evidence in the record supports the Hearing Officer's
   decision on Mrs. Johnson's promotion claim. Substantial evidence in the
   record also supports the Hearing Officer's decision that principles of
   preclusion law appropriately bar relitigation of Mrs. Johnson's claim
   that respondent discriminated against her on the basis of sex in
   assigning overtime work. Accordingly, the Hearing Officer's decision
   should be affirmed. I. As found by the Hearing Officer, Mrs. Johnson
   has been employed since 1971 by the Office of the Architect of the
   Capital ("AOC") in the Night Cleaning Division assigned to the Senate
   Office Building. See Betty Jean Johnson v. The Office of the Architect
   of the Capitol, No. 96-AC-25 (Dec. 3, 1996) at 3 (Finding of Fact No.
   1) (the "Decision"). She is currently a cleaning supply room worker,
   WG-6901-04/05. See id. Her primary duties are distributing supplies to
   custodial workers, cleaning offices, and answering the telephone. See
   id. During her years of service, she has held a number of job
   designations, including custodial worker, laborer, linen room and
   cleaning supply room worker, and has applied for, but has never held,
   any supervisory positions. See id. (Finding of Fact No. 2). In 1991,
   appellant applied unsuccessfully for the position of Custodial Worker
   Assistant Supervisor, which was awarded to Mrs. Clara Jackson, who had
   less seniority than Mrs. Johnson. See In the matter of Betty Johnson,
   Employee v. Architect of the Capitol, Employing Office, SFEP 92-006,
   (Feb. 12, 1993) at 4, 16-17. In October of 1992, Mrs. Johnson filed a
   formal complaint, pursuant to the Government Employee Rights Act of
   1991 ("GERA"), 2 U.S.C. § 1207 (repealed 1995), with the Office of
   Senate Fair Employment Practices, alleging that she was denied that
   promotion on account of religion and that she was unlawfully paid lower
   wages than a male employee, Mr. Williams, whom she alleged had the same
   job and performed the same duties as she did. See In the matter of
   Betty Johnson, Employee v. Architect of the Capitol, Employing Office,
   (Feb. 12, 1993) at 1, 10, 13. After counseling and mediation, a formal
   hearing was held in 1993 and a panel of three Hearing Officers of the
   Office of Senate Fair Employment Practices (the "Hearing Board") found
   that her complaint was without merit. See id. at 1, 15-19. Mrs. Johnson
   appealed to the Senate Select Committee on Ethics (the "Committee"),
   which affirmed the Hearing Board's determination with respect to the
   issue of whether appellant was unlawfully discriminated against in the
   denial of a promotion because of her religion. See In the matter of
   Betty Johnson, Employee v. Architect of the Capitol, Employing Office,
   SFEP 92-006, (Apr. 30, 1993), cited in In the matter of Betty Johnson,
   Employee v. Architect of the Capitol, Employing Office, SFEP 92-006,
   (July 17, 1993) at 1. The Committee remanded the case with regard to
   the Hearing Board's decision on the issue of whether appellant was
   unlawfully discriminated against on the basis of sex in the assignment
   of overtime work, ordering the Hearing Board to consider the claim in
   light of the law of disparate impact under Title VII. See id. On
   remand, the Hearing Board concluded that the AOC had not unlawfully
   discriminated against appellant by placing her on a five day work
   schedule with no weekend overtime. In the matter of Betty Johnson,
   Employee v. Architect of the Capitol, Employing Office, SFEP 92-006,
   (July 17, 1993) at 12. The Committee then affirmed. See In the matter
   of Betty Johnson, Employee v. Architect of the Capitol, Employing
   Office, SFEP 92-006, (July 17, 1993) at 2. Appellant appealed the
   rejection of her claim of religious discrimination to the Federal
   Circuit, which affirmed. See Johnson v. Office of Senate Fair
   Employment Practices, 35 F. 3d 1566, 1570 (Fed. Cir. 1994). She did not
   appeal the sex discrimination claim. Id. at 1569 n.5. On January 26,
   1996, Mrs. Johnson applied for another supervisory position, that of
   Custodial Worker Assistant General Supervisor. See Decision at 4
   (Finding of Fact No. 4). That position is an advanced supervisory
   position, which has been described as requiring the ability to
   supervise some 20 other supervisors, manage more than 100 custodial
   workers, handle complicated personnel actions, and share the duties of
   a high-level general supervisor. See id. at 5 (Finding of Fact No.
   6.a). The personnel staffing specialist in the Human Resource
   Management Division of the AOC, Karen G. Carre, found that four
   applicants for the position, including Mrs. Johnson, did not meet the
   minimum job requirements. See id. at 5 (Finding of Fact No. 5.a). Thus,
   she did not rank those individuals or invite them to participate
   further in the evaluation and selection process. See id. at 7 (Finding
   of Fact No. 7.b). Ms. Carre made the determination that Mrs. Johnson
   was not qualified based on Mrs. Johnson's lack of prior supervisory
   experience or training, after comparing her written application with
   the job requirements. See id. at 5, 6 (Findings of Fact Nos. 5.a, 6.a,
   d). None of the persons whom Mrs. Johnson alleges are biased against
   her had any role or influence in Ms. Carre's determination that Mrs.
   Johnson was unqualified for the job. See id. at 7 (Findings of Fact
   Nos. 7.c, d). At the time of making that determination, Ms. Carre was
   unaware of Mrs. Johnson's color or religion or the color or religion of
   the successful applicant, Clara Jackson, whose previous promotion to a
   supervisory position Mrs. Johnson had also challenged. See id. at 7
   (Finding of Fact No. 7.a). Mrs. Johnson thereafter filed a claim under
   section 201 (a)(1) of the Congressional Accountability Act ("CAA"),
   alleging that the denial of her promotion was based on her color and
   religion. Prior to hearing this claim, the Hearing Officer assigned to
   this matter allowed Mrs. Johnson to amend her complaint to include a
   claim under section 201 that she had been unlawfully discriminated
   against on the basis of sex in the assignment of overtime work. See
   Prehearing Order (August 21, 1996) at 1(a). After receiving the
   evidence, the Hearing Officer found that Mrs. Johnson had "made a
   marginal showing" to establish her prima facie case of discrimination
   respecting her claim of religious and color discrimination in the
   denial of promotion. Decision at 9 (Conclusion of Law No. 2.b). The
   Hearing Officer further found, however, that the AOC had provided
   legitimate 3 non-discriminatory reasons for its actions, which
   appellant did not rebut. See id. at 9-10 (Conclusion of Law No. 2).
   Specifically, the Hearing Officer found that the selection official,
   Ms. Carre, was unaware of appellant's color or religion, and had
   determined that Mrs. Johnson did not meet the minimum requirements for
   the high-level supervisory position for which she had applied because
   she had no prior supervisory experience or training in the complex
   personnel duties that the position required. See id. at 5-7 (Findings
   of Fact Nos. 6-7). With respect to the overtime claim, the Hearing
   Officer found that "Mrs. Johnson's allegations of discrimination in
   overtime policy are barred by her prior litigation and may not be
   considered by the Office of Compliance." Id. at 10 (Conclusion of Law
   No. 3). The Hearing Officer based this conclusion on her findings that
   "Mrs. Johnson's allegations concerning her disparate treatment under
   the overtime policy of the Architect's Office were decided adversely to
   her in proceedings filed in 1992" and "that Mrs. Johnson raises the
   same issues, under the same policy, against the same party in this
   litigation. One who has had his or her day in court should not be
   permitted to re-litigate the issue." Id. II. In reviewing the Hearing
   Officer's decision, it is not our role to reweigh the evidence in the
   present record or to make factual findings of our own. Nor is it our
   role to decide whether the earlier adjudication of the overtime work
   assignment claim by the Senate Office of Fair Employment Practices was
   correctly decided. Rather, under section 406 of the CAA, we perform a
   limited appellate function: Specifically, the Board may only "set aside
   a decision of a hearing officer if [it] determines that the decision
   was -- (1) arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise
   not consistent with law; (2) not made consistent with required
   procedures; or (3) unsupported by substantial evidence." 2 U.S.C. §
   1406(c). Moreover, in making these determinations, the Board "must
   review the whole record . . . and due account shall be taken of the
   rule of prejudicial error." Id. at § 1406(d). Applying these standards
   according to their well-accepted meaning in the law, the Hearing
   Officer's decision here may not properly be set aside. A. The Promotion
   Claim First, there is no basis under the standards set forth in section
   406 of the CAA for overturning the Hearing Officer's decision
   respecting Mrs. Johnson's claim of discrimination in promotion. That
   decision is consistent with the law and supported by substantial
   evidence. As to the law, the Hearing Officer quite correctly recognized
   that "[t]he factual inquiry in a Title VII case is whether the
   defendant intentionally discriminated against the plaintiff. In other 4
   words, is the employer. . . treating some people less favorably than
   others because of their race, color, religion, sex, or national
   origin." United States Postal Service Board of Governors v. Aikens, 460
   U.S. 711, 715 (1983) (internal quotations and citations omitted). The
   "ultimate question" in a case of alleged discrimination on the basis of
   color and religion is "whether plaintiff has proved that the defendant
   intentionally discriminated against [her] because of" her color or
   religion. St. Mary's Honor Center v. Hicks , 509 U.S. 499, 511 (1993)
   (internal quotations and citations omitted). The Hearing Officer so
   held, see Decision at 10 (Conclusion of Law No. 2.d), and Mrs. Johnson
   does not even seriously challenge this statement of the law. Mrs.
   Johnson does challenge the Hearing Officer's findings that Mrs. Johnson
   was not "qualified for the advanced supervisory position which she
   sought" and that neither "her color or her religion were factors in her
   failure to obtain this particular position." Decision at 10 (Conclusion
   of Law No. 2.(d)). But those findings are supported by "substantial
   evidence" on the record as a whole. In this regard, the question is not
   whether we would have made the same decision ourselves or, for that
   matter, whether there is a "scintilla" of evidence in the record that
   is contrary to the Hearing Officer's decision. See NLRB v. Nevada
   Consol. Copper Corp., 316 U.S. 105, 107 (1942); NLRB v. Columbia
   Enameling & Stamping Co., 306 U.S. 292, 300 (1939). Rather, the
   question is whether, on the record as whole, there is "such relevant
   evidence as a reasonable mind might accept as adequate to support [the]
   conclusion" that the Hearing Officer reached. Consolidated Edison Co.
   of N.Y. v. NLRB, 305 U.S. 197, 229 (1938). See also Universal Camera
   Corp. v. NLRB, 340 U.S. 474, 488 (1951). The test is the same one that
   courts apply in determining whether to refuse to direct a verdict or
   grant judgment notwithstanding the verdict on a factual issue that has
   been submitted to a jury. NLRB v. Columbian Enameling & Stamping Co.,
   306 U.S. at 300; NLRB v. Southland Mfg. Co., 201 F.2d 244, 246 (4th
   Cir. 1952). Under this exceedingly deferential standard of review, the
   Hearing Officer's decision here must be sustained. The record contains
   ample support for the Hearing Officer's finding that the AOC had a
   legitimate, nondiscriminatory basis for its determination that Mrs.
   Johnson was "not qualified" for the position of Assistant General
   Supervisor. This determination was made by a qualified personnel
   specialist, in accordance with Office of Personnel Management standards
   and accepted personnel practices, by comparing the requirements for the
   position, as set forth in the vacancy announcement, with Mrs. Johnson's
   qualifications, as set forth in her written job application. See, e.g.,
   Tr. at 197, 200-204, 208, 210, 218; see also, Complainant's Exhibit 6;
   Respondent's Exhibits 1-3. There is also substantial evidence in the
   record supporting the Hearing Officer's finding that Ms. Carre was
   unacquainted with Mrs. Johnson's color or religion when she found that
   appellant, along with three other candidates, was "not qualified" for
   the position and for that reason did not forward her application to
   selection officials for further review. See Tr. at 210, 217-218.
   Indeed, the record is clear that the selection officials, against whom
   appellant alleges 5 bias, did not even consider appellant's
   application. See Tr. at 210, 221-3. In short, the record fully supports
   the Hearing Officer's conclusion that Mrs. Johnson was not denied the
   promotion because of her color or religion. Accordingly, the Hearing
   Officer's decision on this claim must be affirmed. B. Overtime Work
   Assignment Claim Likewise, there is no basis for overturning the
   Hearing Officer's determination that Mrs. Johnson is precluded from
   relitigating her claim respecting the assignment of overtime work.
   Under the standards of review set forth in section 406 of the CAA, that
   decision must be affirmed. First, the Hearing Officer's decision is not
   "arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not
   consistent with law." It has been established for over a century that a
   "claim, having passed into judgment, cannot again be brought into
   litigation between the parties in proceedings at law upon any ground
   whatever." Cromwell v. County of Sac, 94 U.S. 351, 352- 353 (1876).
   Moreover, even "where the second action between the same parties is
   upon a different claim or demand, the judgment in the prior action
   operates as a estoppel . . . as to those matters in issue or points
   controverted, upon the determination of which the [first] finding or
   verdict was rendered." Id. at 353. These principles of preclusion law
   have long been applied in adjudicatory proceedings conducted by
   administrative agencies. See, e.g., United States v. Utah Construction
   & Mining Co., 384 U.S. 394, 422 (1966). And, while these preclusion
   principles do not always bar later litigation of claims arising out of
   "essentially the same course of wrongful conduct," Lawlor v. Nat'l
   Screen Service Corp. , 349 U.S. 322, 327-28 (1955), they do bar
   relitigation of points "which have remained substantially static,
   factually and legally." Commissioner of Internal Revenue v. Sunnen, 333
   U.S. 591, 599 (1948). Thus, the Hearing Officer here correctly
   determined that, where a continuing course of conduct is in issue, the
   critical question is whether there has been a material change in either
   subsequent fact or law that was necessary to the prior decision. See,
   e.g., Peugeot Motors of American. Inc. v. Eastern Auto Distrib., Inc.,
   892 F.2d 355, 359 (4th Cir. 1989) cert. denied 497 U.S. 1005; Neeld v.
   Nat'l Hockey League, 439 F. Supp. 446, 450-51 (W.D.N.Y. 1977). Second,
   the Hearing Officer's decision here was clearly "made consistent with
   required procedures." Even though Mrs. Johnson did not challenge
   respondent's overtime work assignment policies and practices in her
   initial complaint in this case, the Hearing Officer allowed Mrs.
   Johnson to amend her complaint prior to the hearing so that she could
   do so. Moreover, at the outset of the hearing, the Hearing Officer
   advised Mrs. Johnson that, with respect to respondent's argument that
   this claim was precluded by a prior adjudication, the critical factual
   question upon which proof was needed was "whether or not there had been
   any change in the 6 overtime since 1992" when Mrs. Johnson previously
   challenged respondent's overtime work assignment policies and
   practices. Tr. at 7. The Hearing Officer then received all of
   petitioner's admissible evidence about the overtime work assignment
   claim (and respondent's cross- examination of that proof); and she made
   specific "findings of fact" and "conclusions of law" on the basis of
   that evidence. Decision at 2-3, 8, 10; see also Tr. 192-194. In short,
   the Hearing Officer plainly followed procedures that gave Mrs. Johnson
   every reasonable opportunity to have her overtime work assignment claim
   heard on the merits; indeed, Mrs. Johnson has never even suggested that
   the Hearing Officer failed to comply with any procedural requirement of
   the CAA or its implementing regulations. Finally, the Hearing Officer's
   decision cannot properly be said to be "unsupported by substantial
   evidence." The Hearing Officer found that: . . .The testimony here
   today indicates that although Mrs. Johnson's exact job title might have
   changed since 1992, she continues to perform the same duties. Further,
   the testimony today is very clear that the employment practices and
   procedures with regard to overtime at the Architect of the Capitol
   offices are the same as they were in 1992, when Mrs. Johnson made her
   first claim about discrimination in overtime . . . . . . . It is the
   hearing officer's conclusion that those policies of the Architect of
   the Capitol with regard to overtime have been the subject of full and
   complete hearing and have been the subject of litigation. Specifically,
   the cause was remanded for special hearing by the Office of Fair
   Employment Practices, and its decision was rendered on July 13, 1993,
   in which it found that there was justification for the practices and
   that the practices were not illegal. . . . The hearing officer
   concludes that [Mrs. Johnson] is barred from relitigating that issue.
   There has been no change in the facts. She pursued all of her legal
   remedies, and the issue was decided against her and must, therefore,
   come to a rest under the principles of law as the hearing officer
   understands them . . . . Tr. at 192-94. See also Decision at 2-3, 5, 8.
   The record as a whole plainly contains "such relevant evidence as a
   reasonable mind might accept as adequate to support [these]
   conclusion[s]. . . ." Consolidated Edison Co. of N.Y. v. NLRB, 305 U.S.
   at 229. Specifically, with respect to the disparate treatment theory,
   the Hearing Board had found that, while at that time "all laborers are
   male and all custodians are females, . . . [b]oth laborer and custodian
   positions are officially open to all employees, regardless of sex." In
   the Matter of Betty Johnson v. Architect of the Capitol, SFEP-96-006
   (February 12, 1993), at 9. The Hearing Board 7 also found that: . . .
   custodial workers clean suites in the same manner as if in a home. They
   dust, empty trash, clean bathrooms, vacuum rugs, etc. Laborers haul
   trash and clean all public areas, including floors, hallways and
   stairwells using large vacuums and 30 inch shampoo machines. The job
   description for laborers requires an 80 pound lifting ability. Id. In
   addition, the Hearing Board found that, "[w]hile Mrs. Johnson provides
   supplies for custodians, Mr. Williams, occupying the job title of
   material handler, is her counterpart for laborers and is responsible
   for providing supplies to these workers." Id. at 10. And, most
   importantly, the Hearing Board also found that: . . . The custodial
   work force is responsible for cleaning non-public areas. Since
   non-public areas are cleaned on Saturday and receive little use for the
   remainder of the weekend, there is no need for this group to provide
   cleaning services on Mondays. Thus, there is no reason for Complainant
   to work on Monday. . . . By contrast, laborer cleaners are responsible
   for cleaning public areas, receiving heavy use seven days a week and
   performing duties which include the operation of machinery and the
   collection and transport of heavy loads of trash. . . . According to
   Respondent's policy, to be paid overtime, the employee must have been
   scheduled to work overtime and must have worked it. To be paid Sunday
   premium pay, the employee must have worked some part of a Sunday and it
   must have been part of the employee's regular scheduled tour of duty. .
   . . Neither of these cases applied to complainant, whereas they did for
   M[r]. Williams. This accounts for the differential in pay. Id. at
   10-11. The Hearing Board accordingly rejected Mrs. Johnson's
   intentional sex discrimination claim, reasoning that: . . . Although
   both the Complainant and Mr. Williams were responsible for providing
   supplies to the custodial workers, Mr. Williams worked a different tour
   of duty which included additional hours and work on Sundays.
   Additionally, Mr. Williams also handed out parts, tools, and equipment
   not handled by the Complainant. As a result, the employer was required
   to pay him 8 both overtime and premium pay. Except for these
   differentials in pay, both Mr. Williams and Complainant earned the same
   base salary. Id. at 17. In this case, the record reflects, among other
   things, ample evidence that, pursuant to federal personnel practice
   regulations, custodian and laborer positions are officially open to all
   qualified applicants, regardless of sex, and, in fact, that there are
   now two or three males in the custodial classification. See Tr. at 65,
   126. In addition, the record reflects ample evidence that laborers and
   custodians continue to perform the same "tours of duty" that they
   performed in 1992 - - i.e., custodial workers still dust, empty trash
   cans, clean bathrooms, and vacuum rugs in offices and other non-public
   areas; and laborers still haul large trash trucks and clean public
   areas, including floors, hallways and stairwells, using large vacuums
   and 30-inch shampoo machines. See Tr. 50-55, 64-66, 76-78, 123-124,
   159-161. Even more importantly, the record in the present case also
   reflects ample evidence that overtime work continues to be assigned in
   lesser amounts to the custodians than to the laborers (including Mr.
   Williams), because there is generally no need for custodians to work
   seven days a week (since custodians clean non-public areas that
   generally receive little use over the weekends). See Tr. at 52-54,
   123-124; Complainant's Exhibits 11, 13, 24. Indeed, Mrs. Johnson
   herself testified that her duties were the same in 1996 as the duties
   that she had in 1992; Mrs. Johnson herself testified and documented
   that the "tours of duty" in effect in 1992 for all custodians and
   laborers were still in effect for all laborers and custodians in 1996;
   Mrs. Johnson herself testified that the policy of assigning overtime
   work only where congressional schedules required it had not changed
   since 1992; and Mrs. Johnson's own witness, Hazel Dews, admitted that
   "most of the departments other than custodial workers" --including
   those with female personnel - - have been getting overtime work
   assignments for years. See Tr. at 9-10, 52- 53, 123-124, 156-158;
   Complaint's Exhibits 11, 13, 24. In short, the record is replete with
   evidence that the material facts have not changed since the time that
   the Hearing Board previously found that respondent's overtime work
   assignment policies and practices are without unlawful motivation. With
   respect to the disparate impact theory, the Hearing Board noted that,
   under controlling authority, Mrs. Johnson had to establish a prima
   facie case "by showing that the employment practices of the AOC
   wrongfully resulted in an all male labor force" and that "this
   wrongfully constituted work force deprived her of overtime and premium
   pay in her position of linen room attendant." In the Matter of Betty
   Johnson v. Architect of the Capitol Employing Office, SFEP 92-006, at 7
   (July 17, 1993). The Hearing Board further noted that, if Mrs. Johnson
   established a prima facie case, "[t]he burden would then shift to the
   AOC to establish that the male labor force was the result of business
   necessity and/or by showing that [Mrs. Johnson] was not wrongfully
   deprived of benefits as a result of the existence of an all male labor
   force." Id. at 7. Having so stated the legal tests, the Hearing Board
   then found that Mrs. Johnson had failed to establish a prima facie
   case, because "[n]o evidence was introduced as to the comparative
   ability of the applicants, nor did the Complainant establish that the
   Custodial 9 Workers could have handled either the industrial machinery
   used by the Laborers or lifted the necessary weights, completing the
   necessary comparison between qualified individuals and the composition
   of the work force . . . ." Id. at 9. Indeed, among other things, the
   Hearing Board found that "[m]ost of the work done on overtime Saturdays
   by the Laborers requires the use of industrial sized equipment and
   possibly could not have been done by all of the Custodial Workers," id.
   at 6, and in particular that Mrs. Johnson could not "adequately perform
   the duties of the Material Handler position (the labor force
   counterpart to [her] position)," id. at 10. Finally, the Hearing Board
   held that Mrs. Johnson had "failed to refute the AOC's defense of
   business necessity," both because "[t]he areas of the Senate Office
   Buildings[,] the public ones that are regularly used on the weekends,
   require the Laborers work force to work weekends," and because "[t]he
   need for qualifications to handle weights of more than 80 pounds and
   heavy industrial machinery while working in these areas has been
   proven." Id. at 10. In this case, the record reflects ample evidence
   that no new, unlawful selection practice with adverse effect was even
   being advanced by Mrs. Johnson. Specifically, the record reveals that
   Mrs. Johnson offered proof of only respondent's workforce composition,
   vacancies, and selection practices in the 1992-1993 time period; she
   did not offer proof of workforce composition, vacancies, and/or
   selection practices subsequent to the Hearing Board's decision, much
   less in the time period after January 23, 1996 (except, perhaps, to
   show that there are now males in custodian positions as well). Tr. at
   65, 128-129. Moreover, the record reveals that Mrs. Johnson again seeks
   to establish disparate effect in overtime work assignments by reference
   simply to the different gender compositions of the laborer and
   custodial classifications, even though controlling case law requires a
   comparison between the qualified labor market and the employee
   population resulting from a particular selection practice. The record
   reflects ample evidence (a) that the "tours of duty" of employees in
   these two classifications are very different (i.e, they perform
   different job functions), (b) that the laborer position requires skills
   and abilities that differ from those of the custodians, and (c) that
   "most departments other than custodial workers" - - including
   departments with female personnel - - in fact get overtime work
   assignments. Tr. 50-55, 64-66, 123-124, 159-161. Finally, the record
   reveals that Mrs Johnson is still not prepared to rebut the business
   necessity of respondent's overtime work assignment practices in the
   present circumstances, as the record contains ample evidence that
   laborers still polish floors using heavy industrial machinery, still
   haul large trash trucks of substantial weights, and still have to work
   on weekends because the areas that they clean are open to the public
   seven days a week (whereas the areas that custodians clean generally
   get little use on weekends). Tr. 50-55, 123-124. In short, the record
   fully supports the conclusion that the material facts necessary to
   establish unlawful sex discrimination under a disparate impact theory
   have not changed. Accordingly, the case is one in which preclusion
   principles are properly applied to bar relitigation of Mrs. Johnson's
   sex discrimination in overtime work assignment claim. The purpose and
   effect of respondent's overtime work assignment policy and practices
   have previously been fully and fairly litigated adversely to Mrs.
   Johnson, and the overtime work assignment policy and practices that
   Mrs. Johnson now seeks to challenge have been found on substantial
   record 10 evidence to be the same as those previously challenged. Thus,
   this case is like Peugeot Motors of American. Inc., 892 F.2d at 359, in
   which preclusion law was applied to prevent relitigation of "the same
   legal claim about the same policies that were litigated and on account
   of which relief was denied in prior litigation." Just as in Neeld, 439
   F. Supp. at 450-51, in which the plaintiff was denied leave to bring a
   new claim respecting a further denial of employment based on a National
   Hockey League rule barring players blind in one eye from employment in
   the NHL, so Mrs. Johnson is barred from bringing a new claim respecting
   further instances of denial of the opportunity to earn overtime based
   on respondent's continuing but unchanged overtime policy and practices.
   As demonstrated above, the issues that Mrs. Johnson seeks to relitigate
   respecting overtime work assignments raise precisely the same material
   facts previously determined against her by the Hearing Board. Those
   points are barred from further litigation because they "have remained
   substantially static, factually and legally." Sunnen, 333 U.S. at 599.
   III. The dissenting opinion does not purport directly to take issue
   with the procedures that the Hearing Officer applied in reaching her
   decision. Nor does the dissenting opinion purport directly to take
   issue with the prior factual findings and conclusions of law of the
   Hearing Board. Instead, the dissenting opinion takes issue with the
   Hearing Officer's conclusion that the material facts have not changed
   since the Hearing Board rendered its prior decisions and with the
   Hearing Officer's application of the law of preclusion. In doing so,
   however, the dissenting opinion simply invents arguments that were not
   made below and that have not even been advanced by Mrs. Johnson on this
   appeal. The dissenting opinion thus reaches out to address issues that
   have not been briefed and that are not properly before us; and, as a
   consequence, the dissenting opinion errs as a matter of law in its
   resolution of those issues. First, contrary to the dissenting opinion's
   suggestion (at 3), the record does not contain any evidence that the
   respective duties of laborers and custodians have materially changed
   since the time of the Hearing Board's prior decision. To be sure, at
   points in their testimony below, Mrs. Johnson and her supporting
   witnesses complained: (a) that, in doing their jobs as custodians, they
   have to carry heavy loads of trash; (b) that some men have had light
   duty work that some women have not had; (c) that Mrs. Johnson does some
   of the same tasks that Mr. Williams does; (d) that laborers have not
   buffed the floors of one Senate office building in the past year; and
   (e) that the laborers have not moved furniture during the tour of duty
   that one of the custodians works. See Tr. 36, 64, 77-78. But there is
   also testimony that laborers are continuing to buff floors in other
   buildings, Tr. 55, 64; and the rest of the testimony is not limited in
   any way to the time period subsequent to the Hearing Board's prior
   decisions. On the contrary, petitioner and her supporting witnesses
   repeatedly stated that the duties of laborers and custodians --
   including the duties of petitioner and Mr. Williams -- have not changed
   in the intervening years; rather, these witnesses simply offered the
   same testimony that was made to and found insufficient by the Hearing
   Board -- to wit, testimony that, from these witnesses' perspectives,
   the differences in custodial and laborer jobs have never been
   sufficiently material to justify the differences in overtime work
   opportunities for employees assigned to those job classifications. See
   Tr. 9-10, 11 36-38, 76-78, 123-125, 128-129, 156-158, 159-161. As the
   Hearing Officer correctly recognized, principles of preclusion law do
   not allow the Office of Compliance now to reweigh this testimony and
   thereby establish facts different from those found in Mrs. Johnson's
   initial action; preclusion principles are designed to prevent just such
   efforts at relitigation. Indeed, the Hearing Officer found that
   "[t]here has been no change in the facts," Tr. at 192-194, and those
   findings are certainly supported by "substantial evidence." Contrary to
   the dissent's premise (at 1), the Hearing Officer's factual findings
   are not undermined in the slightest by her statements that "Mrs.
   Johnson is barred from relitigating overtime issues," Decision at 2,
   and that "Mrs. Johnson's allegations of discrimination in overtime
   policy. . . may not be considered by the Office of Compliance," id. at
   10. These statements do not, as the dissent suggests (at 1), show that
   "the Hearing Officer did not weigh the evidence presented by Mrs.
   Johnson or consider the credibility of Mrs. Johnson or her witnesses."
   On the contrary, in context, those statements self-evidently show only
   that, having found from the weight of the evidence that Mrs. Johnson's
   "prior litigation involved the same parties, the same policy and the
   same evidence," Decision, at 2, and that "[t]here has been no change in
   the facts," Tr. 194, the Hearing Officer would not reconsider the
   merits of the Hearing Board's prior adverse adjudication of Mrs.
   Johnson's sex discrimination in overtime work assignment claim. In any
   event, on appeal, the issue for the Board is not whether the Hearing
   Officer weighed evidence or made credibility determinations in the
   course of finding facts. Rather, as the statute makes clear, the issue
   for the Board is only whether, on the record as a whole, there is
   "substantial evidence" to support the Hearing Officer's finding that
   the material facts have not changed. See 2 U.S.C. § 1406 (c). Nothing
   in the statements that the dissent seizes upon bears on this issue in
   any way. Nor does Mrs. Johnson's status as a pro se litigant prevent
   these factual findings from precluding relitigation of the merits of
   Mrs. Johnson's sex discrimination in overtime work assignment claim.
   While courts liberally construe the allegations of a pro se litigant's
   pleadings, they do not as impartial arbiters of the facts evaluate a
   pro se litigant's evidence any differently than they evaluate the
   evidence of a represented litigant. See, e.g., Dozier v. Ford Motor
   Co., 702 F.2d 1189, 1194 (D.C. Cir. 1983); Jacobsen v. Filler, 790 F.2d
   1362, 1363-1365 & n.7 (9th Cir. 1986). Moreover, the Hearing Officer
   here allowed Mrs. Johnson to amend her pleadings on the eve of trial to
   include her sex discrimination in overtime work assignment claim; the
   Hearing Officer advised her at the commencement of the hearing about
   the facts that were critical to the resolution of the preclusion issue
   on this claim; and the Hearing Officer fully considered the evidence
   that Mrs. Johnson offered in deciding that the material facts with
   respect to this claim had not changed. No more was required or, now
   that this case is on appeal, is allowed. Accord, Matter of CLDC
   Management Corp., 72 F.3d 1347, 1352 (7th Cir.) cert. denied sub nom.
   In re Geschke 117 S.Ct. 166 (1996); Dozier v. Ford Motor Co., 702 F.2d
   at 1194. Second, the dissent further errs in suggesting (at 2-4) that,
   even if there has been no change in the material facts in the interim,
   the Supreme Court's decision in Lawlor v. National Screen Service
   Corp., 349 U.S. 322 (1955), bars application of preclusion principles
   to conduct occurring subsequent to the prior litigation (such as that
   at issue here). While some (but not all) 12 courts have interpreted
   Lawlor to bar application of claim preclusion principles to such
   subsequent conduct (even where the material facts have not changed), no
   court of which I am aware has interpreted Lawlor to bar application of
   issue preclusion principles to such subsequent conduct. On the
   contrary, all authorities of which I am aware -- including the
   authorities cited by the dissent  recognize that issue preclusion
   principles are fully applicable in such circumstances to prevent
   relitigation of factual issues that have previously been fully and
   fairly litigated. See, e.g., Perkins v. Bd. of Trustees of the Univ. of
   Ill., 116 F.3d 235, 237 (7th Cir. 1997); Harkins Amusement Enterprises,
   Inc. v. Harry Nace Co., 890 F.2d 181, 183 (9th Cir. 1989); Dawkins v.
   Nabisco, Inc., 549 F.2d 396, 397 n.1(5th Cir.) cert. denied 433 U.S.
   910 (1977); see also 18 CHARLES ALAN WRIGHT, ARTHUR R. MILLER & EDWARD
   H. COOPER, FEDERAL PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE, § 4417, at 154-55 (1981); 2
   RESTATEMENT (SECOND) OF JUDGMENTS § 27, cmt. c, reporter's note at
   264-65 (1982). Accordingly, Lawlor has no relevance to the Hearing
   Officer's conclusion that, since there had been no change in the
   material facts, Mrs. Johnson should be precluded "from relitigating
   overtime issues" previously adjudicated by the Hearing Board. Decision
   at 2; see also id. at 10. And, contrary to the dissent's invective, no
   "spectre" of "immunity" for "future violations" is raised by that
   holding, since the conduct in issue has already been fully and fairly
   litigated and adjudged lawful, and since "[d]istinct conduct is alleged
   only in the limited sense that every day is a new day . . . ." In re
   Dual-Deck Video Cassette Recorder Antitrust Litigation, Go-Video, Inc.
   v. Masushita Elec. Indus. Co., 11 F.3d 1460, 1464 (9th Cir. 1993).
   Third, the dissent likewise errs in suggesting (at 5-7) that the
   earlier adjudication of Mrs. Johnson's sex discrimination in overtime
   work assignment claim is not entitled to preclusive effect because it
   was not rendered by an agency acting in a judicial capacity. The
   earlier adjudication of Mrs. Johnson's claims easily satisfies the
   tests that courts of law have established for determining whether to
   give preclusive effect to a judgment of a decisional body,
   administrative or judicial. Courts of law recognize that "[t]he essence
   of judicial decisionmaking" is the "appl[ication] [of] general rules to
   particular situations." Rivers v. Roadway Express, 511 U.S. 298, 313
   (1994). Accordingly, they give preclusive effect to judgments rendered
   in adjudications where: (a) the parties were provided with notice of
   the proceedings; (b) the parties had the right to present evidence and
   argument and rebut the evidence and argument of their opponents; (c)
   the decisional body decided the controversy by applying general rules
   to the specific factual dispute involving those parties; (d) the
   decisional body rendered a judgment containing its final decision; and
   (e) other procedures -- such as the power to subpoena evidence and/or
   "substantial evidence" review -- exist as are necessary to ensure that
   the matter is fairly and conclusively decided. See, e.g., Amoco
   Production Co. v. Heimann, 904 F.2d 1405, 1410 (10th Cir.) cert. denied
   498 U.S. 942 (1990); Long v. Laramie County Community College Distr.,
   840 F.2d 743, 751 (10th Cir.), cert. denied, 488 U.S. 825 (1988); Yancy
   v. McDevitt, 802 F.2d 1025, 1028-30 (8th Cir. 1986); Buckhalter v.
   Pepsi-Cola General Bottlers, Inc., 820 F.2d 892, 895 (7th Cir. 1985).
   Indeed, according to the RESTATEMENT (SECOND) OF JUDGMENTS, § 83
   (1982), these are the "essential elements of adjudication" sufficient
   for the application of preclusion principles. 13 The earlier
   adjudication of Mrs. Johnson's sex discrimination in overtime work
   assignment claim manifested all of these "essential elements of
   adjudication" -- and more. Pursuant to the Government Employee Rights
   Act of 1991 ("GERA"), 2 U.S.C. § 1201 et seq., and rules duly
   promulgated to implement the GERA, see 128 CONG. REC. S131210-03, Mrs.
   Johnson received formal notice of each step in the earlier proceedings;
   the Hearing Board had the right to grant reasonable prehearing
   discovery and to issue subpoenas to compel the attendance of witnesses
   and production of documents; Mrs. Johnson had the right to present
   evidence and argument and to confront respondent's evidence and
   argument; the Hearing Board conducted a full evidentiary hearing in
   accordance with the formal adjudicatory procedures of the
   Administrative Procedure Act; and the Hearing Board decided the
   controversy by applying a general non-discrimination rule to the facts
   of the case before it. Indeed, the Hearing Board's decision was subject
   to appeal both to the Senate Select Committee on Ethics ("Committee")
   and to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. In
   short, as required by GERA, the earlier adjudication of Mrs. Johnson's
   claims was fully judicial in nature and, under accepted legal
   standards, is entitled to preclusive effect. In suggesting to the
   contrary, the dissent argues (at 6) that the Committee's decision
   cannot be given preclusive effect because it is not an "administrative"
   or "judicial agency" and "does not . . . act in a judicial capacity."
   But the adjudication in issue here is really that of the Hearing Board
   and, accordingly, the dissent's critique of the Committee's capacity
   for judicial decisionmaking is essentially academic. Indeed, under GERA
   at the time, Mrs. Johnson could have completely bypassed the Committee
   and appealed directly to the Federal Circuit. See Johnson v. Office of
   Senate Fair Employment Practices, 35 F. 3d at 1568 n.3. In any event,
   the United States Constitution specifically envisions that the Senate
   may on occasion act in a judicial capacity, see, e.g., U.S. CONST. art.
   I, § 3, cl. 6 (the Senate "shall have the sole Power to try all
   Impeachments"); see also Nixon v. United States, 506 U.S. 224, 249-51
   (1993) (White, J., concurring) (Senate may delegate its adjudicatory
   authority to a committee), and the Supreme Court long ago admonished
   that "[w]hether the act done by him was judicial or not is to be
   determined by its character, and not by the character of the agent." Ex
   parte Virginia, 100 U.S. 339, 348 (1880). Under GERA, the Committee
   plainly performed judicial acts: The Committee heard requests for
   review of hearing board decisions -- i.e., it reviewed the application
   of general non-discrimination rules to particular factual disputes. 2
   U.S.C. § 1208; see also 2 U.S.C. §§ 1207, 1218. The Committee conducted
   its review "based on the record of the hearing board "-- i.e., based on
   a record created through adversary presentations by the parties. 2
   U.S.C. § 1208(b). The Committee provided a written statement of the
   reasons for its decisions. 2 U.S.C. § 1208 (e). And the Committee's
   decisions could be sustained only if supported by "substantial
   evidence" and "consistent with law." 2 U.S.C. § 1209 (c). In short,
   contrary to the dissent's suggestion (at 6) that the Committee was
   performing an executive function, the Committee's decisional process
   under GERA plainly manifested the "essential elements of adjudication."
   The dissent also errs in stating (at 6) that GERA provided "no
   standards" for the Committee's decisions. As noted above, GERA embraced
   certain general non-discrimination rules and created a mechanism for
   their application in particular factual situations. See 2 U.S.C. §§ 14
   1202, 1207, 1208, 1218. Moreover, GERA specifically required that
   Committee base its decision "on the record" of the hearing board,
   provide "a written statement of reasons" for its decisions, and render
   decisions that were "consistent with law" and "supported by substantial
   evidence." As numerous cases make clear, these requirements provide
   sufficient standards for decision and "necessitate adversary,
   adjudicative-type procedures." Independent Bankers Assoc. of Georgia v.
   Bd. of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 516 F.2d 1206, 1217
   (D.C. Cir. 1975). See also e.g., United States v. Florida East Coast
   Ry. Co., 410 U.S. 224, 245 (1973); Portland Audubon Soc'y v. Endangered
   Species Comm., 984 F.2d 1534, 1540 (9th Cir. 1993). In suggesting to
   the contrary, the dissent simply fails to recognize that the Committee
   was authorized to conduct a de novo review of any case brought before
   it (and, accordingly, the statutory standards set by GERA were like
   those applicable to other agencies with de novo review authority, and
   not like those applicable to this Board and reviewing courts in GERA
   cases). See, e.g., 29 U.S.C. § 160(c) (specifying adjudicatory
   standards for National Labor Relations Board); see also Bumble Bee
   Seafoods v. Director, OWCP, 629 F.2d 1327, 1228-29 (9th Cir. 1980)
   (comparing review standards applicable to different agencies). The
   dissent's complaint (at 6) that the Committee could only remand a
   matter once to a hearing board is similarly misplaced. That limitation
   in no way changed the judicial character of either the Committee's
   judgments or the proceedings giving rise to such judgments; it simply
   specified the process and time period pursuant to which the factual
   record for decision of cases had to be made. See 2 U.S.C. §§ 1208 (c),
   (d). Moreover, there is no basis for the dissent's speculation (at 6)
   that this limitation "may have affected Mrs. Johnson's proceedings,"
   both because the burden of proof issue to which the dissent refers
   could conceivably have affected only one of multiple independent
   grounds for the Hearing Board's decision, and because the Committee
   ultimately decided that the Hearing Board's decision could be affirmed
   on the basis of the existing record and Mrs. Johnson elected not to
   exercise her right to appeal that judgment to the Federal Circuit.
   Indeed, the dissent's speculation that the Committee's decision may
   have been in error is an inappropriate basis for refusing to accord
   that decision preclusive effect; the purpose of preclusion rules is to
   achieve finality and to prevent such efforts at relitigation of
   previously determined issues. The dissent further errs in its
   contention (at 6) that the senatorial status of the Committee's members
   is inconsistent with the Committee's acting in a judicial capacity. As
   noted above, under established precedent, the determination whether an
   act is judicial in nature must be made by reference to the character of
   the act, not by reference to the character of the actor. See Forrester
   v. White, 484 U.S. 219, 228-29 (1988). Moreover, while there are
   important constitutional, policy and political reasons both for
   appropriately separating judicial and executive (and legislative)
   powers and for subjecting those authorities to appropriate checks and
   balances, as the Administrative Procedure Act and myriad judicial
   decisions make clear, if adjudicative powers may constitutionally be
   conferred on an entity, that entity need not be "separate" or
   "independent" from other agency or governmental officials in order to
   render legally-enforceable decisions that are entitled to preclusive
   effect. See, e.g., 5 U.S.C. § 557(b); Withrow v. Larkin, 421 U.S. 35,
   46-55 (1975). Rather, the adjudicative body need simply be "impartial"
   -- i.e., without a personal, 15 financial or official interest in the
   outcome of the particular proceedings. Withrow, 421 U.S. at 46. See
   also Kremer v. Chemical Const. Corp., 456 U.S. 461, 477-81 (1982);
   RESTATEMENT (SECOND) OF JUDGMENTS, § 83 cmt. b, at 269 (1982). As the
   dissent effectively concedes (at 7 n.4), however, there is no plausible
   argument that the Committee -- which was not a party to the proceeding,
   had no stake in the employment decision at issue, and had no oversight
   or appropriation responsibilities for respondent -- lacked such
   impartiality in reviewing Mrs. Johnson's case. Finally, there is no
   merit to the dissent's suggestion (at 7) that the "interests of
   justice" require denying preclusive effect to the earlier adjudication
   of Mrs. Johnson's claims. As the Supreme Court stated in rejecting this
   same kind of argument: [W]e do not see the grave injustice which would
   be done by the application of accepted principles of res judicata.
   "Simple justice" is achieved when a complex body of law developed over
   a period of years is evenhandedly applied. The doctrine of res judicata
   serves vital public interests beyond any individual judge's ad hoc
   determination of the equities in a particular case. There is simply "no
   principle of law or equity which sanctions the rejection by a federal
   court of the salutary principle of res judicata." Heiser v. Woodruff,
   327 U.S. 726, 733 (1946). . . .[R]eliance on `public policy' is
   similarly misplaced. This Court has long recognized that "[p]ublic
   policy dictates that there be an end of litigation; that those who have
   contested an issue shall be bound by the result of the contest, and
   that matters once tried shall be considered forever settled as between
   the parties." Baldwin v. Traveling Men's Association, 283 U.S. 522, 525
   (1931). We have stressed that "[the] doctrine of res judicata is not a
   mere matter of practice or procedure inherited from a more technical
   time than ours. It is a rule of fundamental and substantial justice,
   `of public policy and of private peace,' which should be cordially
   regarded and enforced by the courts. . . ." Hart Steel Co. v. Railroad
   Supply Co., 244 U.S. 294, 299 (1917). Federated Dep't Stores v. Moitie
   , 452 U.S. 394, 401 (1981). In suggesting to the contrary, the dissent
   relies (at 2-4, 7-8) on cases and authorities that question the
   propriety of applying claim preclusion principles to continuing
   conduct. But, as noted above, no authority of which I am aware
   questions the propriety of applying issue preclusion principles to
   continuing conduct; and the Hearing Officer plainly applied issue
   preclusion principles to prevent the retrial of facts that Mrs. Johnson
   previously had a full and fair opportunity to litigate. 16 The dissent
   also suggests (at 8) that the CAA somehow requires that Mrs. Johnson
   have an opportunity to relitigate whether respondent's overtime work
   assignment practices have an unlawful motive or effect. But statutes
   are presumed to embrace common law principles of preclusion, Astoria
   Federal Sav. & Loan Ass'n v. Solimino, 501 U.S. 104, 107-08 (1991), and
   the dissent does not point to anything in the CAA that could even
   conceivably rebut that interpretive presumption. On the contrary, the
   CAA expressly preserved the right of Senate employees to use the
   processes established by GERA for resolving certain claims arising both
   before and after the effective date of the CAA. See 2 U.S.C. § 1435
   (a). Moreover, while the CAA arguably may have promised covered
   employees that new, more expansive rights and remedies would be
   available to them after January 23, 1996, there is absolutely no
   evidence that the CAA promised covered employees such as Mrs. Johnson
   that they could relitigate issues that they had previously had a full
   and fair opportunity to litigate. Rather, if the Board is "to assure
   both the perception and reality of fair and impartial decision-making,
   in parity with other employees in the Nation,"(dissenting opinion at 8)
   the Board must apply to Mrs. Johnson's case the preclusion rules that
   are applicable to all other litigants and cases. With all respect, that
   is the goal of the CAA. IV. Accordingly, the decision of the Hearing
   Officer must be affirmed in all respects that it has been challenged on
   appeal.1 Issued, Washington, D.C., May 22, 1998. 1 During pretrial
   proceedings, the Hearing Officer ruled that Mrs. Johnson could proceed
   only on a claim of discrimination under Title VII, as applied by
   section 201 of the CAA, stating that "[a]lthough provisions of the Fair
   Labor Standards Act, as made applicable under CAA § 203 (2 U.S.C. §
   1313), were referenced during the August 20, 1996 [prehearing]
   proceeding when discussing the overtime issues, [Mrs. Johnson] does not
   articulate orally or in writing a claim under FLSA . . . . " Prehearing
   Order (August 21, 1996) at 1(a). Mrs. Johnson did not appeal this
   ruling. 17 Member Hunter, concurring in the judgment. I agree that
   substantial evidence in the record supports the Hearing Officer's
   decision respecting Mrs. Johnson's promotion claim. I also agree that
   the Hearing Officer correctly decided that if there has been no
   material change in the facts respecting the assignment of overtime
   work, preclusion principles bar the relitigation of that issue. I
   further agree that substantial evidence in the record supports the
   Hearing Officer's finding that there has been no material change in the
   relevant facts. While I may have decided this matter differently if I
   was sitting as the Hearing Officer or if the standard of my review was
   de novo, this is clearly not the case herein. As stated by Chairman
   Nager, in reviewing the Hearing Officer's decision, the Board performs
   a limited appellate function. Specifically, the Board may only "set
   aside a decision of a Hearing Officer if [it] determines that the
   decision was  (1) arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or
   otherwise not consistent with law; (2) not made consistent with
   required procedures; and (3) unsupported by substantial evidence." 2
   U.S.C. § 1406(c). Applying the above standard of review, the Hearing
   Officer's decision may not properly be set aside. Issued, Washington,
   D.C. May 22, 1998. 18 Members Adler and Lorber, concurring in the
   judgment in part and dissenting in part. We agree that substantial
   evidence in the record supports the Hearing Officer's decision on Mrs.
   Johnson's promotion claim. We thus concur in that part of the Board's
   judgment. We respectfully dissent, however, from that part of the
   Board's judgment which affirms the Hearing Officer's decision that
   principles of preclusion bar the litigation of Mrs. Johnson's claim
   that respondent discriminated against her on the basis of sex in
   assigning overtime work. We would have remanded that issue to the
   Hearing Officer in order that the AOC could present its defense to Mrs.
   Johnson's allegations including her prima facie showing that the AOC
   maintained a job classification system in which there are predominately
   "men's" jobs and "women's" jobs and in which an employee's overtime
   opportunities appeared to be substantially linked to the employee's
   classification, and hence to the employee's sex. The Hearing Officer
   could then have weighed the evidence as she did with regard to Mrs.
   Johnson's promotion claim and rendered a decision on the merits. We
   recognize, of course, that our authority to review the Hearing
   Officer's decision is limited by section 406 of the CAA but 406(c)(1)
   and our own Rules not only empower the Board to set aside decisions
   which are "not consistent with law," but require the Board to do so.
   For the reasons set forth below, we would hold that the Hearing Officer
   erred in holding that "Mrs. Johnson's allegations of discrimination in
   overtime policy are barred by her prior litigation and may not be
   considered by the Office of Compliance." Decision at 10 (Conclusion of
   Law No. 3) (emphasis added). The contrary decision of the majority of
   the Board is premised upon the majority's conclusions that the Hearing
   Officer weighed the evidence presented by Mrs. Johnson and therefore
   that the Hearing Officer's conclusions must be accepted if they are
   supported by substantial evidence. The majority's premise, however, is
   directly contradicted by the Hearing Officer's actions and the explicit
   language of her decision which is before us. Thus, in granting the
   AOC's preclusion motion at the close of Mrs. Johnson's case-in-chief,
   the Hearing Officer explicitly acknowledged that she did not and would
   not consider the evidence before her because of her views with regard
   to preclusion. The Hearing Officer's decision in this regard could
   hardly be more clear. Not only did she explicitly hold that "Mrs.
   Johnson's allegations of discrimination in overtime policy . . . may
   not be considered by the Office of Compliance," Decision at 10
   (Conclusion of Law No. 3) (emphasis added), but also the Hearing
   Officer observed at an earlier point in her decision that "Mrs. Johnson
   is barred from re-litigating overtime issues." Decision at 2 (emphasis
   added). Because of these explicit determinations, it must be concluded
   that the Hearing Officer did not weigh the evidence presented by Mrs.
   Johnson or consider the credibility of Mrs. Johnson or her witnesses;
   either of which would have constituted a re-litigation. Instead, the
   Hearing Officer found that her "allegations" could not be "considered."
   In so holding, the Hearing Officer erred for each of the following
   reasons: 19 1. Res judicata2 Ought Not Be Applied Where Allegations
   Concern Subsequent Conduct, Especially Where, As Here, The Allegations
   Have Been Made By A Pro Se Claimant. Several principles are applicable
   here. First, the allegations of a pro se litigant are to be treated
   liberally. See, e.g., Dawkins v. Nabisco, Inc., 549 F.2d 396, 397 (5th
   Cir. ), cert. denied, 433 U.S. 910 (1977); Casavantes v. Cal. State
   Univ., 732 F.2d 1441, 1442 (1984) (applying principles that Title VII
   is a "remedial statute to be liberally construed in favor of the
   victims of discrimination" and that "a liberal construction is
   particularlly appropriate in situations in which the complainant is
   acting pro se") (internal quotations omitted). Second, res judicata may
   not be applied where a claimant's second action relates to conduct
   which occurred after the claimant's initial litigation, at least where
   there have in the interim been material changes in the facts relating
   to the conduct challenged. Lawlor v. Nat'l Screen Service Corp., 349
   U.S. 322, 328-29, 75 S. Ct. 865, 868-69 (1955); Perkins v. Bd of
   Trustees of the Univ. of Ill., 116 F.3d 235, 236-37 (7th Cir. 1997)
   ("The District Court's approach implies that, having prevailed against
   the challenge to one civil service exam, the University could
   discriminate against Perkins with impunity for the rest of his life.
   That cannot be right.") Moreover, even where there has not been a
   material change in facts in the interim, courts have frequently refused
   to find preclusion where important public policies, such as those
   embodied in the Civil Rights Act or in the antitrust laws, are
   concerned. Thus, Lawlor has been interpreted to allow subsequent Title
   VII and antitrust actions with regard to subsequent periods of time
   without requiring other factual changes. See, e.g., Blair v. City of
   Greenville, 649 F.2d 365, 368 (5th Cir. 1981) (Subsequent class action
   on behalf of Black firemen not barred: Res judicata, even where there
   has been "a valid, final judgment" "rendered on the merits" "does not,
   however, bar a suit based on acts of the defendant that have occurred
   subsequent to the final judgment asserted as a bar. . . . A subsequent
   wrong constitutes a new cause of action."); Cellar Door Prods., Inc. of
   Mich. v. Kay, 897 F. 2d 1375, 1378 (6th Cir.), cert. denied, 498 U.S.
   819 (1990) (Subsequent antitrust action based upon same alleged
   arrangement which had been challenged unsuccessfully in first action
   permitted based upon alleged violations occurring subsequent to the
   dismissal of the first action: "Each time the arrangement precluded
   Cellar Door from competitively bidding for an event, a cause of action
   may have accrued to Cellar Door. Therefore, as in Lawlor and Cream Top
   [383 F. 2d 358 (6th Cir. 1996)], those causes of action that arose
   subsequent to the 1983 dismissal are not barred by res judicata.") See
   also, PHILLIP E. AREEDA AND HERBERT HOVENKAMP, ANTITRUST LAW, ¶ 334c at
   120 (rev. ed.1995) ("This judicial willingness to re-examine matters
   formerly litigated rests on the premise that the defendant should not
   be able to use a former judgment as a means of gaining immunity from a
   change in the law or of assuring himself a permanent advantage over his
   competitors."); cf. Bazemore 2 We use res judicata, as courts generally
   have, to include both claim and issue preclusion. 20 v. Friday, 478
   U.S. 384, 395-96, 106 S.Ct. 3000, 3006 (1986) ("Each week's paycheck
   that delivers less to a black than to a similarly situated white is a
   wrong actionable under Title VII, regardless of the fact that this
   pattern was begun prior to the effective date of Title VII.").
   Application of these principles precludes the application of res
   judicata here with regard to Mrs. Johnson's overtime claims. Not only
   was she a pro se plaintiff whose allegations should be interpreted
   liberally, see, e.g., Mahroom v. Hook, 563 F.2d 1369, 1375 (9th Cir.
   1977), cert. denied, 436 U.S. 904 (1978), but also the evidence she
   presented -- essentially her allegations -- reveals that there were
   alleged factual distinctions between the 1990-92 time period involved
   in Mrs. Johnson's first action, as compared to those existing after
   January 23, 1996. Thus, at the hearing, Mrs. Johnson presented evidence
   that the male laborers performed less demanding physical work than the
   predominantly female custodians, e.g., Tr. at 64, 77-78; that the women
   were required to lift trash cans weighing "a hundred pounds or more,"
   Tr. at 78; that Mrs. Johnson did the same (or more) work than her male
   "counterpart," Tr. at 36; and that the male laborers did not now
   perform some of the heavy lifting which had been found to distinguish
   the jobs in the previous litigation, that is, they had not buffed the
   floors in the "old building . . . this year," Tr. at 64, nor moved any
   furniture during the night shift, Tr. at 77. These allegations should
   have been "considered," particularly in light of Mrs. Johnson's
   difficulty, as a pro se claimant, in fully articulating her
   allegations. Not to have done so raises the specter of the very
   immunity with which the Supreme Court was concerned in Lawlor: While
   the 1943 judgment precludes recovery on claims arising prior to its
   entry, it cannot be given the effect of extinguishing claims which did
   not even exist or which could not have possibly been sued upon in the
   previous case. . . . Particularly is this so in view of the public
   interest in vigilant enforcement of the antitrust laws through the
   instrumentality of the private treble-damage action. Acceptance of
   respondents' novel contention would in effect confer on them a partial
   immunity from civil liability for future violations. Such a result is
   consistent with neither the antitrust laws nor the doctrine of res
   judicata. 349 U.S. at 328-329, 75 S. Ct. at 868-869. Precisely the same
   principles have been found applicable with regard to Title VII
   litigation. E.g., Dawkins, 549 F.2d at 397 and Blair, 649 F.2 at 368.
   Indeed, to paraphrase the Supreme Court in Lawlor, acceptance of the
   AOC's contentions would confer upon the AOC a partial immunity from
   civil liability for future violations with regard to overtime
   assignments concerning Mrs. Johnson. Such a result is consistent
   neither with civil rights laws nor the doctrine of res judicata. 21 Our
   difference with the majority in this regard does not derive from a
   confusion on our part between claim or issue preclusion. Rather, we
   interpret Lawlor and the other decisions we have cited as recognizing
   that subsequent conduct may raise new issues precisely because the
   "conduct occurred in a different time period." Harkins Amusement
   Enterprises, Inc. v. Harry Nace Co., 890 F.2d 181, 183 (9th Cir. 1989).
   Obviously, Mrs. Johnson could not in1992 have litigated before the
   Senate Select Committee on Ethics her allegations with regard to the
   post-January 23, 1996 conduct of the AOC.3 We also, as we said at the
   outset of our opinion, cannot accept the majority's conclusion that the
   "Hearing Officer fully considered the evidence that Mrs. Johnson
   offered in deciding that the material facts with respect to this claim
   had not changed." Principal concurrence at 11. Neither of the premises
   embedded in this conclusion are supported by the hearing Officer's
   decision: She did not "fully consider[] the evidence" and she did not
   find that "the material facts with respect to this claim had not
   changed." Indeed, she specifically held that "Mrs. Johnson's
   allegations of overtime policy . . .may not be considered," Decision at
   10 (emphasis added), and that "Mrs. Johnson is barred from relitigating
   overtime issues" Decision at 2. Without considering or relitigating
   these issues, the Hearing Officer could not possibly have "fully
   considered the evidence" concerning this issue. That the Hearing
   Officer was true to her words that she would not consider this evidence
   is dramatically illustrated by comparing her Findings of Fact dealing
   with the promotion claim (primarily Decision at 3-7 (Findings of Fact
   2-7)) with those dealing with the overtime claim (primarily Decision at
   8- 9(Finding of Fact 8)). With regard to the promotion claim, the
   Hearing Officer finds, for example, that "Mrs. Johnson was not
   qualified for the position of custodial worker assistant- general
   supervisor" and that "[c]olor and religion were not factors when Mrs.
   Johnson was found `not qualified.'" Decision at 5, 6. These specific
   findings are then supported by even more detailed factual analysis. See
   id. By contrast, with regard to the overtime issue, there are no
   comparable Findings of Fact reflecting fully considered evidence, and
   there is no finding in the Hearing Officer's decision that the material
   facts with respect to this claim had not changed. Instead, the Hearing
   Officer focused only on the fact that Mrs. Johnson's "allegations" "are
   the same," i.e., in both time periods Mrs. Johnson "complained about
   the disparate impact of the overtime policies of the Architect's
   Office," Decision at 8, and that she offers "some of the 3 Nor could
   Mrs. Johnson have litigated before the Senate Select Committee an Equal
   Pay Act claim since the Equal Pay Act was not made applicable to
   legislative branch employees under GERA. "Although provisions of the
   Fair Labor Standards Act, as made applicable under CAA § 203 (2 USC §
   1313) were referenced during the August 20, 1996 proceeding when
   discussing the overtime issues," the Hearing Officer concluded that
   "complainant does not articulate orally or in writing a claim under
   FLSA. . . ." Pre-Hearing Order of August 21, 1996 at 1(a). Accordingly,
   the Hearing Officer limited Mrs. Johnson to the presentation of claims
   under Title VII, as made applicable by the CAA. The record before us is
   insufficient to determine whether Mrs. Johnson's allegations stated a
   claim under the FLSA, as made applicable by the CAA. 22 same evidence
   which she used in the prior litigation" in attacking the AOC's overtime
   policy which Mrs. Johnson conceded to be "the same today as it was in
   1992." Id. However, even the majority concedes that preclusion
   principles could not bar Mrs. Johnson's current action although the
   policy was the same (i.e., almost all overtime was assigned to
   classifications predominantly filled by male employees) and the
   allegations were the same (i.e., that such assignments had a disparate
   and unlawful effect upon women) if there had been a material change in
   the job duties since 1992. But the Hearing Officer's refusal to
   "consider" the evidence in the proceeding because of the sameness of
   the allegations, policy and parties precluded inquiry into the question
   of whether there had been a material change in the actual duties of the
   relevant employees in the relevant classification. All the Hearing
   Officer found in her decision was that "some" of the evidence was the
   same. Decision at 8 (emphasis added). Moreover, the majority appears to
   concede that some of the evidence also pointed in a different
   direction. Under these circumstances, Mrs. Johnson's evidence should
   have been weighed4 and a clear decision rendered. Mrs. Johnson's right
   to have her allegations fully considered should not be snuffed out
   based upon a presumption that the Hearing Officer fully considered the
   evidence, especially when that presumption is inconsistent with the
   structure and content of the Hearing Officer's decision and her
   explicit Conclusion of Law that "Mrs. Johnson's allegations of
   discrimination in overtime policy were barred by her prior litigation
   and may not be considered by the Office of Compliance." Decision at 10
   (emphasis added). It is indeed ironic that the majority can affirm the
   Hearing Officer only by characterizing the Hearing Officer's decision
   in a manner completely inconsistent with the explicit language and
   careful structure of the Hearing Officer's own decision. 2. The
   Adjudicatory Procedures Which Existed With Regard To Senate Employees,
   Including Mrs. Johnson, Prior To The Enactment Of The Congressional
   Accountability Act Were Not Of A Judicial Nature, As Required For The
   Application Of Res Judicata. Res judicata is a judge-made principle to
   prevent repeated litigation. Commissioner of Internal Revenue v.
   Sunnen, 333 U.S. 591, 597, 68 S.Ct. 715, 719 (1948 ). However, not all
   litigation is entitled to preclusive effect. Thus, the Supreme Court
   has recognized that preclusive effect is appropriately given to
   determinations by administrative agencies: when an administrative
   agency is acting in a judicial capacity and resolves disputed issues of
   fact properly before it which the parties have had an adequate
   opportunity to litigate. . . . Astoria Federal Savings & Loan Ass'n. v.
   Solimino, 501 U.S. 104, 107, 111 S. Ct. 2166, 2169 (1991) (emphasis
   added) (quoting United States v. Utah Construction & Mining Co., 4 See
   Harkins, 890 F.2d at 183 ("[E]ven if the complaint were read as
   narrowly as the defendant's wish, the plaintiff alleges facts which by
   defendant's own concessions are at least 10 percent different."). 23
   384 U.S. 394, 422, 86 S. Ct. 1545, 1560 (1966)). We recognize that in
   her prior litigation, Mrs. Johnson had an opportunity to litigate with
   regard to her contentions of discrimination during the 1990-92 time
   period. The Senate Select Committee on Ethics, however, in discharging
   its responsibilities under the Government Employee Rights Act of 1991
   ("GERA"), 2 U.S.C. § 1201 et seq.,("GERA"), is not an "administrative"
   or judicial agency and it does not purport to act in a judicial
   capacity. Thus, for example, GERA provided no standards with regard to
   the Senate Ethics Committee's review of its Hearing Board, providing
   only that its review should be based on the record before the Hearing
   Board. 2 U.S.C. § 1208(b) (repealed 1995). This omission could not have
   been an oversight, for in its very next section, GERA provided explicit
   standards for court review of the decision of the Senate Select
   Committee on Ethics. 2 U.S.C. § 1209(c) (repealed 1995). Moreover, GERA
   authorized the Senate Select Committee on Ethics to remand a matter to
   its Hearing Board only once, 2 U.S.C. § 1208(c) (repealed 1995), a
   limitation which may have affected Mrs. Johnson's proceedings, for the
   second decision of the Senate Select Committee on Ethics stated that in
   future decisions "the Committee suggests that the Hearing Board, when
   dealing with a disparate impact claim, analyze in its order the issues
   related to the applicability of the burden of proof standard as set
   forth in the Civil Rights Act of 1991." In the matter of Betty Johnson,
   Employee v. Architect of the Capitol, Employing Office, SFEP 92-006,
   (October 22, 1993) at 2. Finally, although GERA provided that the
   members of the Hearing Board should be "3 independent hearing officers"
   who were not to be "Senators or officers or employees of the Senate,"
   GERA § 1207(b) (repealed), no such independence was possible with
   regard to members of the Select Committee on Ethics, all of whom were
   Senators. Thus, the limitations of GERA, while fully consistent with
   that Committee's exercising the constitutional power of the Senate to
   determine "the Rules of its Proceedings,"U.S. CONST., art. I, § 5, cl.
   2), were not consistent with the Committee's acting in a judicial
   capacity. By contrast, when Congress, through the CAA, conferred the
   power to act in a judicial capacity upon an instrumentality of
   Congress, the Board of Directors, it did so with great care, creating
   an administrative agency and providing explicitly that the Office of
   Compliance was to be an "independent" office. Moreover, explicit
   standards of review were provided not only for court review of the
   decisions of the Board of Directors but also for the Board's review of
   its Hearing Officers. See, CAA §§ 301(a) and 406(c). And, of course,
   the Board of Directors, like a court, is not limited in the number of
   times it may remand a matter. Thus, because the Senate Select Committee
   on Ethics exercised the executive powers of the Senate, not judicial
   powers, its decision may not be given preclusive effect. In challenging
   this analysis and our conclusion that the Senate Select Committee on
   Ethics exercised the executive powers of the Senate, the Board's
   majority overlooks the fact that GERA provided the same procedures
   whether the respondent was an instrumentality of the Senate or a
   Senator himself or herself. Yet GERA itself appears to recognize that
   in a 24 proceeding involving a Senator, the members of the Senate
   Select Committee on Ethics would not be "independent" and GERA was
   amended to require review by the Senate Select Committee on Ethics thus
   insuring that in the future any decision to be reviewed by the Federal
   Circuit would be that of the Committee. Because there is no suggestion
   that the Senate Select Committee on Ethics exercised judicial authority
   before these amendments but the executive authority of the Senate only
   thereafter, the majority decision is internally inconsistent. The
   majority cannot argue that our "critique of the Committee's capacity
   for judicial decision making is essentially academic" because " the
   adjudication in issue here is really that of the Hearing Board,"
   principal concurrence at 12, and yet also contend that the procedures
   do not suffer the limitations we perceive because the "Committee was
   authorized to conduct a de novo review of any case brought before it,"
   principal concurrence at 13.5 3. The Interests Of Justice Require
   Denying Preclusive Effect To Mrs. Johnson's Proceedings Under GERA. It
   has been well-recognized that very limited exceptions to the rules with
   regard to claims and issue preclusion have been recognized in the
   interests of justice. As 18 CHARLES A. WRIGHT, ARTHUR R. MILLER &
   EDWARD H. COOPER, FEDERAL PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE § 4415 at 121-22 (2nd
   ed. 1981), recognizes: Claims preclusion rules reflect an unavoidable
   tension between conflicting forms of justice by litigation. The values
   of repose and reliance are gained at the expense of denying the
   opportunity to litigate matters that never have been litigated and that
   may involve valid claims. However, although the authors of Federal
   Practice and Procedure generally disfavor such exceptions, even they
   acknowledge that "continuing conduct may deserve particularly careful
   examination before claim preclusion is applied to separate statutory
   claims." Id. at § 4411, at 89. Here, even if the majority were correct
   that there had been no material changes in the duties of Mrs. Johnson
   or her co-workers, Mrs. Johnson's claims would be precisely of this
   type: They would involve repetitive or continuing conduct and separate
   statutory claims. Thus, the Architect of the Capitol, based upon
   litigation under GERA concerning job assignments in 1991 and 1992,
   seeks to preclude Mrs. Johnson from litigating under the Congressional
   Accountability Act alleged discriminatory overtime assignments which
   were 5 Our conclusion in no way impugns the diligence of the Senate
   Committee in fulfilling its obligations under GERA; the Committee's
   diligence in meeting its obligations is unquestioned. Indeed, it was
   the Committee which initially remanded this matter to the Hearing Board
   and it was the Committee, upon its second review of the Hearing Board,
   which recognized the change in the underlying law which was apparently
   missed by the Hearing Board. However, the Committee is neither a
   judicial nor an administrative agency and the Committee under the GERA
   could not act in a judicial capacity; these are the critical elements
   in this analysis. 25 made after January 23, 1996, when the CAA became
   effective. Obviously, Mrs. Johnson could not in her earlier action have
   challenged assignments made after January 23, 1996, nor could she in
   this prior litigation have taken advantage of the substantive and
   procedural provisions which the Congressional Accountability Act
   prescribes to ensure independent decision-making. As the Fifth Circuit
   reasoned in Dawkins: Were we to rule that the 1973 adjudication was
   somehow dispositive of the factual dispute regarding alleged subsequent
   retaliation, a company that had once won a suit alleging retaliation
   for participation in Title VII proceedings would be free to retaliate
   at will against the earlier plaintiff without fear of being held
   accountable for its actions. The law of res judicata establishes no
   such result. 549 F.2d at 397. So here, the overtime assignments made by
   the AOC after January 23, 1996 should be reviewed on the merits under
   the Congressional Accountability Act, as opposed to being precluded by
   litigation which took place with regard to a prior period under a
   different -- and now largely repealed -- statutory regime. In enacting
   the CAA, Congress promised covered employees that the new, more
   expansive rights and remedies of the CAA would be available to them
   after January 23, 1996. That promise should benefit all claims and all
   covered employees after January 23, 1996, not all claims and all
   covered employees other than those of Mrs. Johnson with regard to the
   assignment of overtime. The goal of the CAA, which embodies the almost
   unanimous intent of Congress, was to assure both the perception and
   reality of fair and impartial decision-making, in parity with other
   employees in the Nation. We believe that the actions taken today by the
   Board's majority are inconsistent with those goals. Issued, Washington,
   D.C. May 22, 1998. 26
