http://www.loc.gov/today/pr/2000/00-031.html

                 Library of Congress Bicentennial: 1800-2000
                       News from the Library of Congress

                       Libraries, Creativity, Liberty

                            Public Affairs Office
                          101 Independence Ave. SE
                          Washington DC 20540-1610
                             tel (202) 707-2905
                             fax (202) 707-9199
                              email pao@loc.gov


                                March 6, 2000
             Contact: John Sayers, Public Affairs (202) 707-9216
     Robin Hatziyannis, FLICC Publications and Education (202) 707-4800

    Federal Libraries and Information Centers, Librarians and Technicians
                              Win FLICC Awards

   To recognize the many innovative ways federal libraries, librarians and
     library technicians fulfill the information demands of government,
    business, scholarly communities and the American public, the Federal
     Library and Information Center Committee (FLICC) has announced the
          winners of its national awards for federal librarianship.

     The award winners will be honored at the 17th Annual FLICC Forum on
     Federal Information Policies on March 30 in Washington, D.C., where
   they will receive their awards and be guests of the forum. Their names
       will remain on permanent display with the names of winners from
       previous years in the FLICC offices at the Library of Congress.

             1999 Federal Library/Information Center of the Year

   An abundance of highly qualified libraries and information centers with
   outstanding, innovative and sustained achievements in Fiscal Year 1999
                    resulted in a tie for this category:

           National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Library

     This federal sciences library is recognized for its initiative and
      vision in providing rapid and efficient access to scientific and
    managerial information and for being the focal point for the transfer
   of environmental information for the nation. In 1999, the NOAA Central
   Library organized over 500 NOAA Web sites under one locator and created
   a unique digital image library of meteorological images from the 1800s
                                to the 1950s.

               Los Alamos National Laboratory Research Library

    The Los Alamos Research Library is recognized for its singular vision
      linked to sound business processes that have led to unprecedented
   levels of customer service, technological innovation and leadership in
   the information community. In one example, the research library joined
       forces with other organizations at the laboratory to develop a
    browsable interface for categorizing Los Alamos National Laboratory's
     science and technology Web resources to create the foundation for a
                      laboratory-wide Internet portal.

    1999 Federal Librarian of the Year -- Marion Jerri Knihnicki, Library
               Director of the U.S. Army Transportation School

   Marion Jerri Knihnicki is recognized for her extraordinary professional
    and personal competencies demonstrated in planning, implementing and
          executing a leading-edge virtual library at the U.S. Army
    Transportation School. She managed a team of personnel that developed
    on-line courses, learning modules and an on-line library catalog that
     has become the basis for the Deployment Information Support System
    (DISS) for soldiers during military crises. The project garnered the
       support of the entire command and the attention of the Army. An
      outstanding librarian within the U.S. Army Training and Doctrine
      Command, Ms. Knihnicki recently accepted a promotion to the Army
                             Library, Pentagon.

   1999 Federal Library Technician of the Year -- Rosette M. Risell, Ruth
            H. Hooker Research Library, Naval Research Laboratory

     Rosette M. Risell is recognized for routinely performing beyond the
   call of duty to maximize her contributions to the mission of the Naval
   Research Laboratory. Her contributions have significantly enhanced the
    library's ability to manage its entire procurement process. In 1999,
   she also assumed the duties of the vacant library management assistant
      position and participated in two special projects: to prepare an
      on-line catalog database for authority control processing and to
      identify and remove duplicate entries to ensure library users an
             accurate and concise database of library holdings.

     Information on the 2000 Award program will be announced later this
    spring. For the latest information on the awards, interested parties
    may refer to the FLICC Web site (www.loc.gov/flicc) where information
   regarding the 2000 nomination packet will be posted on the "What's New"
                  section as soon as it becomes available.

    The Federal Library and Information Center Committee (FLICC) fosters
       excellence in federal library and information services through
     interagency cooperation and provides guidance and direction for the
   Federal Library and Information Network (FEDLINK). Created in 1965 and
         headquartered at the Library of Congress, FLICC also makes
   recommendations on federal library and information policies, programs,
       and procedures to federal agencies and to others concerned with
                     libraries and information centers.

                                    # # #

                                  PR 00-031
                                   3/6/00
                               ISSN 0731-3527

    PRESS RELEASES | The LIBRARY TODAY | SEARCH the CATALOG | SEARCH our
    SITE | SITE MAP | TOP of PAGE | COMMENTS | LIBRARY of CONGRESS HOME
