http://www.ninds.nih.gov/health_and_medical/pubs/stroke_hope_through_research.htm

   National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke Accessible
   version - If you are using special technology To Access the Internet,
   follow this link Accessible version
   NINDS Home page About NINDS NINDS Disorder Information NINDS Funding
   Information NINDS News And Events NINDS Find People section NINDS Jobs
   and Training
   image For format - no content




   NINDS logo

   Science for the Brain The nation's leading supporter of biomedical
   research on disorders of the brain and nervous system

   [clear1x1.gif] Browse all disorders [clear1x1.gif] [clear1x1.gif]

     Browse all health
      organizations

     More about
      a disorder
   [clear1x1.gif] Studies with patients [clear1x1.gif] [clear1x1.gif]
   [clear1x1.gif] Research literature [clear1x1.gif] [clear1x1.gif]
   [clear1x1.gif] Press releases [clear1x1.gif] [clear1x1.gif]

   [clear1x1.gif] Disclaimer [clear1x1.gif] [clear1x1.gif]

   Search NINDS...             (help)
   _____________

                                                       Go


     Contact us
     My privacy

   NINDS is part of the
   National Institutes of
   Health


     Stroke: Hope Through Research

   Get Web page suited for printing
   Email this to a friend or colleague
   Request free mailed brochure

Stroke: Hope Through Research

Table of Contents

     * Introduction
     * What is Stroke?
       Ischemic Stroke
       Hemorrhagic Stroke
     * Transient Ischemic Attack
     * Recurrent Stroke
     * How Do You Recognize Stroke?
     * How is the Cause of Stroke Determined?
       Imaging for the Diagnosis of Acute Stroke
     * Who is at Risk for Stroke?
       Unmodifiable Risk Factors
       The "Stroke Belt"
       Other Risk Factors
       -Hypertension
       -Heart Disease
       -Diabetes
       -Blood Cholesterol Levels
       Modifiable Lifestyle Risk Factors
       Head and Neck Injuries
       Infections
       Genetic Risk Factors
     * What Stroke Therapies are Available?
       Medications
       Surgery
       Rehabilitation Therapy
     * What Disabilities Can Result From a Stroke?
     * What Special Risks do Women Face?
     * Are Children at Risk For Stroke?
     * What Research is Being Done by the NINDS?
       Clinical Trials
     * Where Can I Find More Information?
     * Glossary
     * Appendix
     * Information Resources
     * Stroke Research Centers
     * NINDS-Sponsored Stroke Studies in Progress: March 1999
     * NINDS-Sponsored Completed Stroke Studies: March 1999

Introduction

   More than 2,400 years ago the father of medicine, Hippocrates,
   recognized and described stroke-the sudden onset of paralysis. Until
   recently, modern medicine has had very little power over this disease,
   but the world of stroke medicine is changing and new and better
   therapies are being developed every day. Today, some people who have a
   stroke can walk away from the attack with no or few disabilities if
   they are treated promptly. Doctors can finally offer stroke patients
   and their families the one thing that until now has been so hard to
   give: hope.

   In ancient times stroke was called apoplexy,^* a general term that
   physicians applied to anyone suddenly struck down with paralysis.
   Because many conditions can lead to sudden paralysis, the term apoplexy
   did not indicate a specific diagnosis or cause. Physicians knew very
   little about the cause of stroke and the only established therapy was
   to feed and care for the patient until the attack ran its course.

   The first person to investigate the pathological signs of apoplexy was
   Johann Jacob Wepfer. Born in Schaffhausen, Switzerland, in 1620, Wepfer
   studied medicine and was the first to identify postmortem signs of
   bleeding in the brains of patients who died of apoplexy. From autopsy
   studies he gained knowledge of the carotid and vertebral arteries that
   supply the brain with blood. He also was the first person to suggest
   that apoplexy, in addition to being caused by bleeding in the brain,
   could be caused by a blockage of one of the main arteries supplying
   blood to the brain; thus stroke became known as a cerebrovascular
   disease ("cerebro" refers to a part of the brain; "vascular" refers to
   the blood vessels and arteries).

   Medical science would eventually confirm Wepfer's hypotheses, but until
   very recently doctors could offer little in the area of therapy. Over
   the last two decades basic and clinical investigators, many of them
   sponsored and funded in part by the National Institute of Neurological
   Disorders and Stroke (NINDS), have learned a great deal about stroke.
   They have identified major risk factors for the disease and have
   developed surgical techniques and drug treatments for the prevention of
   stroke. But perhaps the most exciting new development in the field of
   stroke research is the recent approval of a drug treatment that can
   reverse the course of stroke if given during the first few hours after
   the onset of symptoms.

   Studies with animals have shown that brain injury occurs within minutes
   of a stroke and can become irreversible within as little as an hour. In
   humans, brain damage begins from the moment the stroke starts and often
   continues for days afterward. Scientists now know that there is a very
   short window of opportunity for treatment of the most common form of
   stroke. Because of these and other advances in the field of
   cerebrovascular disease stroke patients now have a chance for survival
   and recovery.
   ^*Terms in Italics are defined in the glossary.

   top

                     Cost of Stroke to the United States

     * total cost of stroke to the United States: estimated at about $43
       billion / year

     * direct costs for medical care and therapy: estimated at about $28
       billion / year

     * indirect costs from lost productivity and other factors: estimated
       at about $15 million / year

     * average cost of care for a patient up to 90 days after a stroke:
       $15,000*

     * for 10% of patients, cost of care for the first 90 days after a
       stroke: $35,000*

     * percentage of direct cost of care for the first 90 days*:

     initial hospitalization = 43%
     rehabilitation = 16%
     physician costs = 14%
     hospital readmission = 14%
     medications and other expenses = 13%

   * From "The Stroke/Brain Attack Reporter's Handbook," National Stroke
   Association, Englewood, CO, 1997.

   top

What is Stroke?

   A stroke occurs when the blood supply to part of the brain is suddenly
   interrupted or when a blood vessel in the brain bursts, spilling blood
   into the spaces surrounding brain cells. In the same way that a person
   suffering a loss of blood flow to the heart is said to be having a
   heart attack, a person with a loss of blood flow to the brain or sudden
   bleeding in the brain can be said to be having a "brain attack."

   Brain cells die when they no longer receive oxygen and nutrients from
   the blood or when they are damaged by sudden bleeding into or around
   the brain. Ischemia is the term used to describe the loss of oxygen and
   nutrients for brain cells when there is inadequate blood flow. Ischemia
   ultimately leads to infarction, the death of brain cells which are
   eventually replaced by a fluid-filled cavity (or infarct) in the
   injured brain.

   When blood flow to the brain is interrupted, some brain cells die
   immediately, while others remain at risk for death. These damaged cells
   make up the ischemic penumbra and can linger in a compromised state for
   several hours. With timely treatment these cells can be saved. The
   ischemic penumbra is discussed in more detail in the Appendix.

   Even though a stroke occurs in the unseen reaches of the brain, the
   symptoms of a stroke are easy to spot. They include sudden numbness or
   weakness, especially on one side of the body; sudden confusion or
   trouble speaking or understanding speech; sudden trouble seeing in one
   or both eyes; sudden trouble walking, dizziness, or loss of balance or
   coordination; or sudden severe headache with no known cause. All of the
   symptoms of stroke appear suddenly, and often there is more than one
   symptom at the same time. Therefore stroke can usually be distinguished
   from other causes of dizziness or headache. These symptoms may indicate
   that a stroke has occurred and that medical attention is needed
   immediately.

   There are two forms of stroke: ischemic - blockage of a blood vessel
   supplying the brain, and hemorrhagic - bleeding into or around the
   brain. The following sections describe these forms in detail.

   top

Ischemic Stroke

   An ischemic stroke occurs when an artery supplying the brain with blood
   becomes blocked, suddenly decreasing or stopping blood flow and
   ultimately causing a brain infarction. This type of stroke accounts for
   approximately 80 percent of all strokes. Blood clots are the most
   common cause of artery blockage and brain infarction. The process of
   clotting is necessary and beneficial throughout the body because it
   stops bleeding and allows repair of damaged areas of arteries or veins.
   However, when blood clots develop in the wrong place within an artery
   they can cause devastating injury by interfering with the normal flow
   of blood. Problems with clotting become more frequent as people age.

   Blood clots can cause ischemia and infarction in two ways. A clot that
   forms in a part of the body other than the brain can travel through
   blood vessels and become wedged in a brain artery. This free-roaming
   clot is called an embolus and often forms in the heart. A stroke caused
   by an embolus is called an embolic stroke. The second kind of ischemic
   stroke, called a thrombotic stroke, is caused by thrombosis, the
   formation of a blood clot in one of the cerebral arteries that stays
   attached to the artery wall until it grows large enough to block blood
   flow.

   Ischemic strokes can also be caused by stenosis, or a narrowing of the
   artery due to the buildup of plaque (a mixture of fatty substances,
   including cholesterol and other lipids) and blood clots along the
   artery wall. Stenosis can occur in large arteries and small arteries
   and is therefore called large vessel disease or small vessel disease,
   respectively. When a stroke occurs due to small vessel disease, a very
   small infarction results, sometimes called a lacunar infarction, from
   the French word "lacune" meaning "gap" or "cavity."

   The most common blood vessel disease that causes stenosis is
   atherosclerosis. In atherosclerosis, deposits of plaque build up along
   the inner walls of large and medium-sized arteries, causing thickening,
   hardening, and loss of elasticity of artery walls and decreased blood
   flow. The role of cholesterol and blood lipids with respect to stroke
   risk is discussed in the section on cholesterol under "Who is at Risk
   for Stroke?".

   top

Hemorrhagic Stroke

   In a healthy, functioning brain, neurons do not come into direct
   contact with blood. The vital oxygen and nutrients the neurons need
   from the blood come to the neurons across the thin walls of the
   cerebral capillaries. The glia (nervous system cells that support and
   protect neurons) form a blood-brain barrier, an elaborate meshwork that
   surrounds blood vessels and capillaries and regulates which elements of
   the blood can pass through to the neurons.

   When an artery in the brain bursts, blood spews out into the
   surrounding tissue and upsets not only the blood supply but the
   delicate chemical balance neurons require to function. This is called a
   hemorrhagic stroke. Such strokes account for approximately 20 percent
   of all strokes.

   Hemorrhage can occur in several ways. One common cause is a bleeding
   aneurysm, a weak or thin spot on an artery wall. Over time, these weak
   spots stretch or balloon out under high arterial pressure. The thin
   walls of these ballooning aneurysms can rupture and spill blood into
   the space surrounding brain cells.

   Hemorrhage also occurs when arterial walls break open. Plaque-encrusted
   artery walls eventually lose their elasticity and become brittle and
   thin, prone to cracking. Hypertension, or high blood pressure,
   increases the risk that a brittle artery wall will give way and release
   blood into the surrounding brain tissue.

   A person with an arteriovenous malformation (AVM) also has an increased
   risk of hemorrhagic stroke. AVMs are a tangle of defective blood
   vessels and capillaries within the brain that have thin walls and can
   therefore rupture.

   Bleeding from ruptured brain arteries can either go into the substance
   of the brain or into the various spaces surrounding the brain.
   Intracerebral hemorrhage occurs when a vessel within the brain leaks
   blood into the brain itself. Subarachnoid hemorrhage is bleeding under
   the meninges, or outer membranes, of the brain into the thin
   fluid-filled space that surrounds the brain.

   The subarachnoid space separates the arachnoid membrane from the
   underlying pia mater membrane. It contains a clear fluid (cerebrospinal
   fluid or CSF) as well as the small blood vessels that supply the outer
   surface of the brain. In a subarachnoid hemorrhage, one of the small
   arteries within the subarachnoid space bursts, flooding the area with
   blood and contaminating the cerebrospinal fluid. Since the CSF flows
   throughout the cranium, within the spaces of the brain, subarachnoid
   hemorrhage can lead to extensive damage throughout the brain. In fact,
   subarachnoid hemorrhage is the most deadly of all strokes.

   top

Transient Ischemic Attacks

   A transient ischemic attack (TIA), sometimes called a mini-stroke,
   starts just like a stroke but then resolves leaving no noticeable
   symptoms or deficits. The occurrence of a TIA is a warning that the
   person is at risk for a more serious and debilitating stroke. Of the
   approximately 50,000 Americans who have a TIA each year, about
   one-third will have an acute stroke sometime in the future. The
   addition of other risk factors compounds a person's risk for a
   recurrent stroke. The average duration of a TIA is a few minutes. For
   almost all TIAs, the symptoms go away within an hour. There is no way
   to tell whether symptoms will be just a TIA or persist and lead to
   death or disability. The patient should assume that all stroke symptoms
   signal an emergency and should not wait to see if they go away.

Recurrent Stroke

   Recurrent stroke is frequent; about 25 percent of people who recover
   from their first stroke will have another stroke within 5 years.
   Recurrent stroke is a major contributor to stroke disability and death,
   with the risk of severe disability or death from stroke increasing with
   each stroke recurrence. The risk of a recurrent stroke is greatest
   right after a stroke, with the risk decreasing with time. About 3
   percent of stroke patients will have another stroke within 30 days of
   their first stroke and one-third of recurrent strokes take place within
   2 years of the first stroke.

   top

How Do You Recognize Stroke?

   Symptoms of stroke appear suddenly. Watch for these symptoms and be
   prepared to act quickly for yourself or on behalf of someone you are
   with:
     * Sudden numbness or weakness of the face, arm, or leg, especially on
       one side of the body.
     * Sudden confusion, trouble talking, or understanding speech.
     * Sudden trouble seeing in one or both eyes.
     * Sudden trouble walking, dizziness, or loss of balance or
       coordination.
     * Sudden severe headache with no known cause.

   If you suspect you or someone you know is experiencing any of these
   symptoms indicative of a stroke, do not wait. Call 911 emergency
   immediately. There are now effective therapies for stroke that must be
   administered at a hospital, but they lose their effectiveness if not
   given within the first 3 hours after stroke symptoms appear. Every
   minute counts!

   top

How is the Cause of Stroke Determined?

   Physicians have several diagnostic techniques and imaging tools to help
   diagnose the cause of stroke quickly and accurately. The first step in
   diagnosis is a short neurological examination. When a possible stroke
   patient arrives at a hospital, a health care professional, usually a
   doctor or nurse, will ask the patient or a companion what happened and
   when the symptoms began. Blood tests, an electrocardiogram, and CT
   scans will often be done. One test that helps doctors judge the
   severity of a stroke is the standardized NIH Stroke Scale, developed by
   the NINDS. Health care professionals use the NIH Stroke Scale to
   measure a patient's neurological deficits by asking the patient to
   answer questions and to perform several physical and mental tests.
   Other scales include the Glasgow Coma Scale, the Hunt and Hess Scale,
   the Modified Rankin Scale, and the Barthel Index.

Imaging for the Diagnosis of Acute Stroke

   Health care professionals also use a variety of imaging devices to
   evaluate stroke patients. The most widely used imaging procedure is the
   computed tomography (CT) scan. Also known as a CAT scan or computed
   axial tomography, CT creates a series of cross-sectional images of the
   head and brain. Because it is readily available at all hours at most
   major hospitals and produces images quickly, CT is the preferred
   diagnostic technique for acute stroke. CT also has unique diagnostic
   benefits. It will quickly rule out a hemorrhage, can occasionally show
   a tumor that might mimic a stroke, and may even show evidence of early
   infarction. Infarctions generally show up on a CT scan about 6 to 8
   hours after the start of stroke symptoms.

   If a stroke is caused by hemorrhage, a CT can show evidence of bleeding
   into the brain almost immediately after stroke symptoms appear.
   Hemorrhage is the primary reason for avoiding certain drug treatments
   for stroke, such as thrombolytic therapy, the only proven acute stroke
   therapy for ischemic stroke (see section on "What Stroke Therapies are
   Available?"). Thrombolytic therapy cannot be used until the doctor can
   confidently diagnose the patient as suffering from an ischemic stroke
   because this treatment might increase bleeding and could make a
   hemorrhagic stroke worse.

   Another imaging device used for stroke patients is the magnetic
   resonance imaging (MRI) scan. MRI uses magnetic fields to detect subtle
   changes in brain tissue content. One effect of stroke is an increase of
   water content in the cells of brain tissue, a condition called
   cytotoxic edema. MRI can detect edema as soon as a few hours after the
   onset of stroke. The benefit of MRI over CT imaging is that MRI is
   better able to detect small infarcts soon after stroke onset.
   Unfortunately, not every hospital has access to an MRI device and the
   procedure is time-consuming and expensive. It also is not as accurate
   in determining when hemorrhage is present. Finally, because MRI takes
   longer to perform than CT, it should not be used if it delays
   treatment.

   Other types of MRI scans, often used for the diagnosis of
   cerebrovascular disease and to predict the risk of stroke, are magnetic
   resonance angiography (MRA) and functional magnetic resonance imaging
   (fMRI). Neurosurgeons use MRA to detect stenosis (blockage) of the
   brain arteries inside the skull by mapping flowing blood. Functional
   MRI uses a magnet to pick up signals from oxygenated blood and can show
   brain activity through increases in local blood flow. Duplex Doppler
   ultrasound and arteriography are two diagnostic imaging techniques used
   to decide if an individual would benefit from a surgical procedure
   called carotid endarterectomy. This surgery is used to remove fatty
   deposits from the carotid arteries and can help prevent stroke (see
   information on carotid endarterectomy).

   Doppler ultrasound is a painless, noninvasive test in which sound waves
   above the range of human hearing are sent into the neck. Echoes bounce
   off the moving blood and the tissue in the artery and can be formed
   into an image. Ultrasound is fast, painless, risk-free, and relatively
   inexpensive compared to MRA and arteriography, but it is not considered
   to be as accurate as arteriography. Arteriography is an X-ray of the
   carotid artery taken when a special dye is injected into the artery.
   The procedure carries its own small risk of causing a stroke and is
   costly to perform. The benefits of arteriography over MR techniques and
   ultrasound are that it is extremely reliable and still the best way to
   measure stenosis of the carotid arteries. Even so, significant advances
   are being made every day involving noninvasive imaging techniques such
   as fMRI (see section on surgery in "What Stroke Therapies are
   Available?").

   top

Who is at Risk for Stroke?

   Some people are at a higher risk for stroke than others. Unmodifiable
   risk factors include age, gender, race/ethnicity, and stroke family
   history. In contrast, other risk factors for stroke, like high blood
   pressure or cigarette smoking, can be changed or controlled by the
   person at risk.

Unmodifiable Risk Factors

   It is a myth that stroke occurs only in elderly adults. In actuality,
   stroke strikes all age groups, from fetuses still in the womb to
   centenarians. It is true, however, that older people have a higher risk
   for stroke than the general population and that the risk for stroke
   increases with age. For every decade after the age of 55, the risk of
   stroke doubles, and two-thirds of all strokes occur in people over 65
   years old. People over 65 also have a seven-fold greater risk of dying
   from stroke than the general population. And the incidence of stroke is
   increasing proportionately with the increase in the elderly population.
   When the baby boomers move into the over-65 age group, stroke and other
   diseases will take on even greater significance in the health care
   field.

   Gender also plays a role in risk for stroke. Men have a higher risk for
   stroke, but more women die from stroke. The stroke risk for men is 1.25
   times that for women. But men do not live as long as women, so men are
   usually younger when they have their strokes and therefore have a
   higher rate of survival than women. In other words, even though women
   have fewer strokes than men, women are generally older when they have
   their strokes and are more likely to die from them.

   Stroke seems to run in some families. Several factors might contribute
   to familial stroke risk. Members of a family might have a genetic
   tendency for stroke risk factors, such as an inherited predisposition
   for hypertension or diabetes. The influence of a common lifestyle among
   family members could also contribute to familial stroke.

   The risk for stroke varies among different ethnic and racial groups.
   The incidence of stroke among African-Americans is almost double that
   of white Americans, and twice as many African-Americans who have a
   stroke die from the event compared to white Americans.
   African-Americans between the ages of 45 and 55 have four to five times
   the stroke death rate of whites. After age 55 the stroke mortality rate
   for whites increases and is equal to that of African-Americans.

   Compared to white Americans, African-Americans have a higher incidence
   of stroke risk factors, including high blood pressure and cigarette
   smoking. African-Americans also have a higher incidence and prevalence
   of some genetic diseases, such as diabetes and sickle cell anemia, that
   predispose them to stroke.

   Hispanics and Native Americans have stroke incidence and mortality
   rates more similar to those of white Americans. In Asian-Americans
   stroke incidence and mortality rates are also similar to those in white
   Americans, even though Asians in Japan, China, and other countries of
   the Far East have significantly higher stroke incidence and mortality
   rates than white Americans. This suggests that environment and
   lifestyle factors play a large role in stroke risk.

   top

The "Stroke Belt"

   Several decades ago, scientists and statisticians noticed that people
   in the southeastern United States had the highest stroke mortality rate
   in the country. They named this region the stroke belt. For many years,
   researchers believed that the increased risk was due to the higher
   percentage of African-Americans and an overall lower socioeconomic
   status (SES) in the southern states. A low SES is associated with an
   overall lower standard of living, leading to a lower standard of health
   care and therefore an increased risk of stroke. But researchers now
   know that the higher percentage of African-Americans and the overall
   lower SES in the southern states does not adequately account for the
   higher incidence of, and mortality from, stroke in those states. This
   means that other factors must be contributing to the higher incidence
   of and mortality from stroke in this region.

   Recent studies have also shown that there is a stroke buckle in the
   stroke belt. Three southeastern states, North Carolina, South Carolina,
   and Georgia, have an extremely high stroke mortality rate, higher than
   the rate in other stroke belt states and up to two times the stroke
   mortality rate of the United States overall. The increased risk could
   be due to geographic or environmental factors or to regional
   differences in lifestyle, including higher rates of cigarette smoking
   and a regional preference for salty, high-fat foods.

   top

Other Risk Factors

   The most important risk factors for stroke are hypertension, heart
   disease, diabetes, and cigarette smoking. Others include heavy alcohol
   consumption, high blood cholesterol levels, illicit drug use, and
   genetic or congenital conditions, particularly vascular abnormalities.
   People with more than one risk factor have what is called
   "amplification of risk." This means that the multiple risk factors
   compound their destructive effects and create an overall risk greater
   than the simple cumulative effect of the individual risk factors.

Hypertension

   Of all the risk factors that contribute to stroke, the most powerful is
   hypertension, or high blood pressure. People with hypertension have a
   risk for stroke that is four to six times higher than the risk for
   those without hypertension. One-third of the adult U.S. population,
   about 50 million people (including 40-70 percent of those over age 65)
   have high blood pressure. Forty to 90 percent of stroke patients have
   high blood pressure before their stroke event.

   A systolic pressure of 120 mm of Hg over a diastolic pressure of 80 mm
   of Hg^* is generally considered normal. Persistently high blood
   pressure greater than 140 over 90 leads to the diagnosis of the disease
   called hypertension. The impact of hypertension on the total risk for
   stroke decreases with increasing age, therefore factors other than
   hypertension play a greater role in the overall stroke risk in elderly
   adults. For people without hypertension, the absolute risk of stroke
   increases over time until around the age of 90, when the absolute risk
   becomes the same as that for people with hypertension.

   Like stroke, there is a gender difference in the prevalence of
   hypertension. In younger people, hypertension is more common among men
   than among women. With increasing age, however, more women than men
   have hypertension. This hypertension gender-age difference probably has
   an impact on the incidence and prevalence of stroke in these
   populations.

   Antihypertensive medication can decrease a person's risk for stroke.
   Recent studies suggest that treatment can decrease the stroke incidence
   rate by 38 percent and decrease the stroke fatality rate by 40 percent.
   Common hypertensive agents include adrenergic agents, beta-blockers,
   angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, calcium channel blockers,
   diuretics, and vasodilators.

   top

Heart Disease

   After hypertension, the second most powerful risk factor for stroke is
   heart disease, especially a condition known as atrial fibrillation.
   Atrial fibrillation is irregular beating of the left atrium, or left
   upper chamber, of the heart. In people with atrial fibrillation, the
   left atrium beats up to four times faster than the rest of the heart.
   This leads to an irregular flow of blood and the occasional formation
   of blood clots that can leave the heart and travel to the brain,
   causing a stroke.

   Atrial fibrillation, which affects as many as 2.2 million Americans,
   increases an individual's risk of stroke by 4 to 6 percent, and about
   15 percent of stroke patients have atrial fibrillation before they
   experience a stroke. The condition is more prevalent in the upper age
   groups, which means that the prevalence of atrial fibrillation in the
   United States will increase proportionately with the growth of the
   elderly population. Unlike hypertension and other risk factors that
   have a lesser impact on the ever-rising absolute risk of stroke that
   comes with advancing age, the influence of atrial fibrillation on total
   risk for stroke increases powerfully with age. In people over 80 years
   old, atrial fibrillation is the direct cause of one in four strokes.

   Other forms of heart disease that increase stroke risk include
   malformations of the heart valves or the heart muscle. Some valve
   diseases, like mitral valve stenosis or mitral annular calcification,
   can double the risk for stroke, independent of other risk factors.

   Heart muscle malformations can also increase the risk for stroke.
   Patent foramen ovale (PFO) is a passage or a hole (sometimes called a
   "shunt") in the heart wall separating the two atria, or upper chambers,
   of the heart. Clots in the blood are usually filtered out by the lungs,
   but PFO could allow emboli or blood clots to bypass the lungs and go
   directly through the arteries to the brain, potentially causing a
   stroke. Research is currently under way to determine how important PFO
   is as a cause for stroke. Atrial septal aneurysm (ASA), a congenital
   (present from birth) malformation of the heart tissue, is a bulging of
   the septum or heart wall into one of the atria of the heart.
   Researchers do not know why this malformation increases the risk for
   stroke. PFO and ASA frequently occur together and therefore amplify the
   risk for stroke. Two other heart malformations that seem to increase
   the risk for stroke for unknown reasons are left atrial enlargement and
   left ventricular hypertrophy. People with left atrial enlargement have
   a larger than normal left atrium of the heart; those with left
   ventricular hypertrophy have a thickening of the wall of the left
   ventricle.

   Another risk factor for stroke is cardiac surgery to correct heart
   malformations or reverse the effects of heart disease. Strokes
   occurring in this situation are usually the result of surgically
   dislodged plaques from the aorta that travel through the bloodstream to
   the arteries in the neck and head, causing stroke. Cardiac surgery
   increases a person's risk of stroke by about 1 percent. Other types of
   surgery can also increase the risk of stroke.

   top

Diabetes

   Diabetes is another disease that increases a person's risk for stroke.
   People with diabetes have three times the risk of stroke compared to
   people without diabetes. The relative risk of stroke from diabetes is
   highest in the fifth and sixth decades of life and decreases after
   that. Like hypertension, the relative risk of stroke from diabetes is
   highest for men at an earlier age and highest for women at an older
   age. People with diabetes may also have other contributing risk factors
   that can amplify the overall risk for stroke. For example, the
   prevalence of hypertension is 40 percent higher in the diabetic
   population compared to the general population.

Blood Cholesterol Levels

   Most people know that high cholesterol levels contribute to heart
   disease. But many don't realize that a high cholesterol level also
   contributes to stroke risk. Cholesterol, a waxy substance produced by
   the liver, is a vital body product. It contributes to the production of
   hormones and vitamin D and is an integral component of cell membranes.
   The liver makes enough cholesterol to fuel the body's needs and this
   natural production of cholesterol alone is not a large contributing
   factor to atherosclerosis, heart disease, and stroke. Research has
   shown that the danger from cholesterol comes from a dietary intake of
   foods that contain high levels of cholesterol. Foods high in saturated
   fat and cholesterol, like meats, eggs, and dairy products, can increase
   the amount of total cholesterol in the body to alarming levels,
   contributing to the risk of atherosclerosis and thickening of the
   arteries.

   Cholesterol is classified as a lipid, meaning that it is fat-soluble
   rather than water-soluble. Other lipids include fatty acids,
   glycerides, alcohol, waxes, steroids, and fat-soluble vitamins A, D,
   and E. Lipids and water, like oil and water, do not mix. Blood is a
   water-based liquid, therefore cholesterol does not mix with blood. In
   order to travel through the blood without clumping together,
   cholesterol needs to be covered by a layer of protein. The cholesterol
   and protein together are called a lipoprotein.

   There are two kinds of cholesterol, commonly called the "good" and the
   "bad." Good cholesterol is high-density lipoprotein, or HDL; bad
   cholesterol is low-density lipoprotein, or LDL. Together, these two
   forms of cholesterol make up a person's total serum cholesterol level.
   Most cholesterol tests measure the level of total cholesterol in the
   blood and don't distinguish between good and bad cholesterol. For these
   total serum cholesterol tests, a level of less than 200 mg/dL^** is
   considered safe, while a level of more than 240 is considered dangerous
   and places a person at risk for heart disease and stroke.

   Most cholesterol in the body is in the form of LDL. LDLs circulate
   through the bloodstream, picking up excess cholesterol and depositing
   cholesterol where it is needed (for example, for the production and
   maintenance of cell membranes). But when too much cholesterol starts
   circulating in the blood, the body cannot handle the excessive LDLs,
   which build up along the inside of the arterial walls. The buildup of
   LDL coating on the inside of the artery walls hardens and turns into
   arterial plaque, leading to stenosis and atherosclerosis. This plaque
   blocks blood vessels and contributes to the formation of blood clots. A
   person's LDL level should be less than 130 mg/dL to be safe. LDL levels
   between 130 and 159 put a person at a slightly higher risk for
   atherosclerosis, heart disease, and stroke. A score over 160 puts a
   person at great risk for a heart attack or stroke.

   The other form of cholesterol, HDL, is beneficial and contributes to
   stroke prevention. HDL carries a small percentage of the cholesterol in
   the blood, but instead of depositing its cholesterol on the inside of
   artery walls, HDL returns to the liver to unload its cholesterol. The
   liver then eliminates the excess cholesterol by passing it along to the
   kidneys. Currently, any HDL score higher than 35 is considered
   desirable. Recent studies have shown that high levels of HDL are
   associated with a reduced risk for heart disease and stroke and that
   low levels (less than 35 mg/dL), even in people with normal levels of
   LDL, lead to an increased risk for heart disease and stroke.

   A person may lower his risk for atherosclerosis and stroke by improving
   his cholesterol levels. A healthy diet and regular exercise are the
   best ways to lower total cholesterol levels. In some cases, physicians
   may prescribe cholesterol-lowering medication, and recent studies have
   shown that the newest types of these drugs, called reductase inhibitors
   or statin drugs, significantly reduce the risk for stroke in most
   patients with high cholesterol. Scientists believe that statins may
   work by reducing the amount of bad cholesterol the body produces and by
   reducing the body's inflammatory immune reaction to cholesterol plaque
   associated with atherosclerosis and stroke.

   ^*mm of Hg-or millimeters of mercury-is the standard means of
   expressing blood pressure, which is measured using an instrument called
   a sphygmomanometer. Using a stethoscope and a cuff that is wrapped
   around the patient's upper arm, a health professional listens to the
   sounds of blood rushing through an artery. The first sound registered
   on the instrument gauge (which measures the pressure of the blood in
   millimeters on a column of mercury) is called the systolic pressure.
   This is the maximum pressure produced as the left ventricle of the
   heart contracts and the blood begins to flow through the artery. The
   second sound is the diastolic pressure and is the lowest pressure in
   the artery when the left ventricle is relaxing. return to
   "Hypertension" section
   ^**mg/dL describes the weight of cholesterol in milligrams in a
   deciliter of blood. This is the standard way of measuring blood
   cholesterol levels. return to "Blood Cholesterol Levels" section

   top

Modifiable Lifestyle Risk Factors

   Cigarette smoking is the most powerful modifiable stroke risk factor.
   Smoking almost doubles a person's risk for ischemic stroke, independent
   of other risk factors, and it increases a person's risk for
   subarachnoid hemorrhage by up to 3.5 percent. Smoking is directly
   responsible for a greater percentage of the total number of strokes in
   young adults than in older adults. Risk factors other than smoking -
   like hypertension, heart disease, and diabetes - account for more of
   the total number of strokes in older adults.

   Heavy smokers are at greater risk for stroke than light smokers. The
   relative risk of stroke decreases immediately after quitting smoking,
   with a major reduction of risk seen after 2 to 4 years. Unfortunately,
   it may take several decades for a former smoker's risk to drop to the
   level of someone who never smoked.

   Smoking increases the risk of stroke by promoting atherosclerosis and
   increasing the levels of blood-clotting factors, such as fibrinogen. In
   addition to promoting conditions linked to stroke, smoking also
   increases the damage that results from stroke by weakening the
   endothelial wall of the cerebrovascular system. This leads to greater
   damage to the brain from events that occur in the secondary stage of
   stroke. (The secondary effects of stroke are discussed in greater
   detail in the Appendix.)

   High alcohol consumption is another modifiable risk factor for stroke.
   Generally, an increase in alcohol consumption leads to an increase in
   blood pressure. While scientists agree that heavy drinking is a risk
   for both hemorrhagic and ischemic stroke, in several research studies
   daily consumption of smaller amounts of alcohol has been found to
   provide a protective influence against ischemic stroke, perhaps because
   alcohol decreases the clotting ability of platelets in the blood.
   Moderate alcohol consumption may act in the same way as aspirin to
   decrease blood clotting and prevent ischemic stroke. Heavy alcohol
   consumption, though, may seriously deplete platelet numbers and
   compromise blood clotting and blood viscosity, leading to hemorrhage.
   In addition, heavy drinking or binge drinking can lead to a rebound
   effect after the alcohol is purged from the body. The consequences of
   this rebound effect are that blood viscosity (thickness) and platelet
   levels skyrocket after heavy drinking, increasing the risk for ischemic
   stroke.

   The use of illicit drugs, such as cocaine and crack cocaine, can cause
   stroke. Cocaine may act on other risk factors, such as hypertension,
   heart disease, and vascular disease, to trigger a stroke. It decreases
   relative cerebrovascular blood flow by up to 30 percent, causes
   vascular constriction, and inhibits vascular relaxation, leading to
   narrowing of the arteries. Cocaine also affects the heart, causing
   arrhythmias and rapid heart rate that can lead to the formation of
   blood clots.

   Marijuana smoking may also be a risk factor for stroke. Marijuana
   decreases blood pressure and may interact with other risk factors, such
   as hypertension and cigarette smoking, to cause rapidly fluctuating
   blood pressure levels, damaging blood vessels.

   Other drugs of abuse, such as amphetamines, heroin, and anabolic
   steroids (and even some common, legal drugs, such as caffeine and
   L-asparaginase and pseudoephedrine found in over-the-counter
   decongestants), have been suspected of increasing stroke risk. Many of
   these drugs are vasoconstrictors, meaning that they cause blood vessels
   to constrict and blood pressure to rise.

   top

Head and Neck Injuries

   Injuries to the head or neck may damage the cerebrovascular system and
   cause a small number of strokes. Head injury or traumatic brain injury
   may cause bleeding within the brain leading to damage akin to that
   caused by a hemorrhagic stroke. Neck injury, when associated with
   spontaneous tearing of the vertebral or carotid arteries caused by
   sudden and severe extension of the neck, neck rotation, or pressure on
   the artery, is a contributing cause of stroke, especially in young
   adults. This type of stroke is often called "beauty-parlor syndrome,"
   which refers to the practice of extending the neck backwards over a
   sink for hair-washing in beauty parlors. Neck calisthenics,
   "bottoms-up" drinking, and improperly performed chiropractic
   manipulation of the neck can also put strain on the vertebral and
   carotid arteries, possibly leading to ischemic stroke.

Infections

   Recent viral and bacterial infections may act with other risk factors
   to add a small risk for stroke. The immune system responds to infection
   by increasing inflammation and increasing the infection-fighting
   properties of the blood. Unfortunately, this immune response increases
   the number of clotting factors in the blood, leading to an increased
   risk of embolic-ischemic stroke.

Genetic Risk Factors

   Although there may not be a single genetic factor associated with
   stroke, genes do play a large role in the expression of stroke risk
   factors such as hypertension, heart disease, diabetes, and vascular
   malformations. It is also possible that an increased risk for stroke
   within a family is due to environmental factors, such as a common
   sedentary lifestyle or poor eating habits, rather than hereditary
   factors.

   Vascular malformations that cause stroke may have the strongest genetic
   link of all stroke risk factors. A vascular malformation is an
   abnormally formed blood vessel or group of blood vessels. One genetic
   vascular disease called CADASIL, which stands for cerebral autosomal
   dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and
   leukoencephalopathy. CADASIL is a rare, genetically inherited,
   congenital vascular disease of the brain that causes strokes,
   subcortical dementia, migraine-like headaches, and psychiatric
   disturbances. CADASIL is very debilitating and symptoms usually surface
   around the age of 45. Although CADASIL can be treated with surgery to
   repair the defective blood vessels, patients often die by the age of
   65. The exact incidence of CADASIL in the United States is unknown.

   top

What Stroke Therapies are Available?

   Physicians have a wide range of therapies to choose from when
   determining a stroke patient's best therapeutic plan. The type of
   stroke therapy a patient should receive depends upon the stage of
   disease. Generally there are three treatment stages for stroke:
   prevention, therapy immediately after stroke, and post-stroke
   rehabilitation. Therapies to prevent a first or recurrent stroke are
   based on treating an individual's underlying risk factors for stroke,
   such as hypertension, atrial fibrillation, and diabetes, or preventing
   the widespread formation of blood clots that can cause ischemic stroke
   in everyone, whether or not risk factors are present. Acute stroke
   therapies try to stop a stroke while it is happening by quickly
   dissolving a blood clot causing the stroke or by stopping the bleeding
   of a hemorrhagic stroke. The purpose of post-stroke rehabilitation is
   to overcome disabilities that result from stroke damage.

   Therapies for stroke include medications, surgery, or rehabilitation.

Medications

   Medication or drug therapy is the most common treatment for stroke. The
   most popular classes of drugs used to prevent or treat stroke are
   antithrombotics (antiplatelet agents and anticoagulants),
   thrombolytics, and neuroprotective agents.

   Antithrombotics prevent the formation of blood clots that can become
   lodged in a cerebral artery and cause strokes. Antiplatelet drugs
   prevent clotting by decreasing the activity of platelets, blood cells
   that contribute to the clotting property of blood. These drugs reduce
   the risk of blood-clot formation, thus reducing the risk of ischemic
   stroke. In the context of stroke, physicians prescribe antiplatelet
   drugs mainly for prevention. The most widely known and used
   antiplatelet drug is aspirin. Other antiplatelet drugs include
   clopidogrel and ticlopidine. The NINDS sponsors a wide range of
   clinical trials to determine the effectiveness of antiplatelet drugs
   for stroke prevention.

   Anticoagulants reduce stroke risk by reducing the clotting property of
   the blood. The most commonly used anticoagulants include warfarin (also
   known as Coumadin® ) and heparin. The NINDS has sponsored several
   trials to test the efficacy of anticoagulants versus antiplatelet
   drugs. The Stroke Prevention in Atrial Fibrillation (SPAF) trial found
   that, although aspirin is an effective therapy for the prevention of a
   second stroke in most patients with atrial fibrillation, some patients
   with additional risk factors do better on warfarin therapy. Another
   study, the Trial of Org 10127 in Acute Stroke Treatment (TOAST), tested
   the effectiveness of low-molecular weight heparin (Org 10172) in stroke
   prevention. TOAST showed that heparin anticoagulants are not generally
   effective in preventing recurrent stroke or improving outcome.

   Thrombolytic agents are used to treat an ongoing, acute ischemic stroke
   caused by an artery blockage. These drugs halt the stroke by dissolving
   the blood clot that is blocking blood flow to the brain. Recombinant
   tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) is a genetically engineered form
   of t-PA, a thombolytic substance made naturally by the body. It can be
   effective if given intravenously within 3 hours of stroke symptom
   onset, but it should be used only after a physician has confirmed that
   the patient has suffered an ischemic stroke. Thrombolytic agents can
   increase bleeding and therefore must be used only after careful patient
   screening. The NINDS rt-PA Stroke Study showed the efficacy of t-PA and
   in 1996 led to the first FDA-approved treatment for acute ischemic
   stroke. Other thrombolytics are currently being tested in clinical
   trials.

   Neuroprotectants are medications that protect the brain from secondary
   injury caused by stroke (see Appendix). Although only a few
   neuroprotectants are FDA-approved for use at this time, many are in
   clinical trials. There are several different classes of
   neuroprotectants that show promise for future therapy, including
   calcium antagonists, glutamate antagonists, opiate antagonists,
   antioxidants, apoptosis inhibitors, and many others. One of the calcium
   antagonists, nimodipine, also called a calcium channel blocker, has
   been shown to decrease the risk of the neurological damage that results
   from subarachnoid hemorrhage. Calcium channel blockers, such as
   nimodipine, act by reducing the risk of cerebral vasospasm, a dangerous
   side effect of subarachnoid hemorrhage in which the blood vessels in
   the subarachnoid space constrict erratically, cutting off blood flow.

   top

Surgery

   Surgery can be used to prevent stroke, to treat acute stroke, or to
   repair vascular damage or malformations in and around the brain. There
   are two prominent types of surgery for stroke prevention and treatment:
   carotid endarterectomy and extracranial/intracranial (EC/IC) bypass.

   Carotid endarterectomy is a surgical procedure in which a doctor
   removes fatty deposits (plaque) from the inside of one of the carotid
   arteries, which are located in the neck and are the main suppliers of
   blood to the brain. As mentioned earlier, the disease atherosclerosis
   is characterized by the buildup of plaque on the inside of large
   arteries, and the blockage of an artery by this fatty material is
   called stenosis. The NINDS has sponsored two large clinical trials to
   test the efficacy of carotid endarterectomy: the North American
   Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial (NASCET) and the Asymptomatic
   Carotid Atherosclerosis Trial (ACAS). These trials showed that carotid
   endarterectomy is a safe and effective stroke prevention therapy for
   most people with greater than 50 percent stenosis of the carotid
   arteries when performed by a qualified and experienced neurosurgeon or
   vascular surgeon.

   Currently, the NINDS is sponsoring the Carotid Revascularization
   Endarterectomy vs. Stenting Trial (CREST), a large clinical trial
   designed to test the effectiveness of carotid endarterectomy versus a
   newer surgical procedure for carotid stenosis called stenting. The
   procedure involves inserting a long, thin catheter tube into an artery
   in the leg and threading the catheter through the vascular system into
   the narrow stenosis of the carotid artery in the neck. Once the
   catheter is in place in the carotid artery, the radiologist expands the
   stent with a balloon on the tip of the catheter. The CREST trial will
   test the effectiveness of the new surgical technique versus the
   established standard technique of carotid endarterectomy surgery.

   EC/IC bypass surgery is a procedure that restores blood flow to a
   blood-deprived area of brain tissue by rerouting a healthy artery in
   the scalp to the area of brain tissue affected by a blocked artery. The
   NINDS-sponsored EC/IC Bypass Study tested the ability of this surgery
   to prevent recurrent strokes in stroke patients with atherosclerosis.
   The study showed that, in the long run, EC/IC does not seem to benefit
   these patients. The surgery is still performed occasionally for
   patients with aneurysms, some types of small artery disease, and
   certain vascular abnormalities.

   One useful surgical procedure for treatment of brain aneurysms that
   cause subarachnoid hemorrhage is a technique called "clipping."
   Clipping involves clamping off the aneurysm from the blood vessel,
   which reduces the chance that it will burst and bleed.

   A new therapy that is gaining wide attention is the detachable coil
   technique for the treatment of high-risk intracranial aneurysms. A
   small platinum coil is inserted through an artery in the thigh and
   threaded through the arteries to the site of the aneurysm. The coil is
   then released into the aneurysm, where it evokes an immune response
   from the body. The body produces a blood clot inside the aneurysm,
   strengthening the artery walls and reducing the risk of rupture. Once
   the aneurysm is stabilized, a neurosurgeon can clip the aneurysm with
   less risk of hemorrhage and death to the patient.

                         Post-Stroke Rehabilitation
   Type Goal

   Physical Therapy (PT) Relearn walking, sitting, lying down, switching
   from one type of movement to another

   Occupational Therapy (OT) Relearn eating, drinking, swallowing,
   dressing, bathing, cooking, reading, writing, toileting

   Speech Therapy Relearn language and communications skills

   Psychological/Psychiatric Therapy Alleviate some mental and emotional
   problems

   top

      Rehabilitation Therapy

   Stroke is the number one cause of serious adult disability in the
   United States. Stroke disability is devastating to the stroke patient
   and family, but therapies are available to help rehabilitate
   post-stroke patients.

   For most stroke patients, physical therapy (PT) is the cornerstone of
   the rehabilitation process. A physical therapist uses training,
   exercises, and physical manipulation of the stroke patient's body with
   the intent of restoring movement, balance, and coordination. The aim of
   PT is to have the stroke patient relearn simple motor activities such
   as walking, sitting, standing, lying down, and the process of switching
   from one type of movement to another.

   Another type of therapy involving relearning daily activities is
   occupational therapy (OT). OT also involves exercise and training to
   help the stroke patient relearn everyday activities such as eating,
   drinking and swallowing, dressing, bathing, cooking, reading and
   writing, and toileting. The goal of OT is to help the patient become
   independent or semi-independent.

   Speech and language problems arise when brain damage occurs in the
   language centers of the brain. Due to the brain's great ability to
   learn and change (called brain plasticity), other areas can adapt to
   take over some of the lost functions. Speech therapy helps stroke
   patients relearn language and speaking skills, or learn other forms of
   communication. Speech therapy is appropriate for patients who have no
   deficits in cognition or thinking, but have problems understanding
   speech or written words, or problems forming speech. A speech therapist
   helps stroke patients help themselves by working to improve language
   skills, develop alternative ways of communicating, and develop coping
   skills to deal with the frustration of not being able to communicate
   fully. With time and patience, a stroke survivor should be able to
   regain some, and sometimes all, language and speaking abilities.

   Many stroke patients require psychological or psychiatric help after a
   stroke. Psychological problems, such as depression, anxiety,
   frustration, and anger, are common post-stroke disabilities. Talk
   therapy, along with appropriate medication, can help alleviate some of
   the mental and emotional problems that result from stroke. Sometimes it
   is also beneficial for family members of the stroke patient to seek
   psychological help as well.

   For more information on rehabilitation, contact the National
   Rehabilitation Information Center , a service of the National Institute
   on Disability and Rehabilitation Research (see Information Resources).

   top

    What Disabilities Can Result From a Stroke?

   Although stroke is a disease of the brain, it can affect the entire
   body. Some of the disabilities that can result from a stroke include
   paralysis, cognitive deficits, speech problems, emotional difficulties,
   daily living problems, and pain.

   Paralysis
   : A common disability that results from stroke is paralysis on one side
   of the body, called hemiplegia. A related disability that is not as
   debilitating as paralysis is one-sided weakness or hemiparesis. The
   paralysis or weakness may affect only the face, an arm, or a leg or may
   affect one entire side of the body and face. A person who suffers a
   stroke in the left hemisphere of the brain will show right-sided
   paralysis or paresis. Conversely, a person with a stroke in the right
   hemisphere of the brain will show deficits on the left side of the
   body. A stroke patient may have problems with the simplest of daily
   activities, such as walking, dressing, eating, and using the bathroom.
   Motor deficits can result from damage to the motor cortex in the
   frontal lobes of the brain or from damage to the lower parts of the
   brain, such as the cerebellum, which controls balance and coordination.
   Some stroke patients also have trouble eating and swallowing, called
   dysphagia.

   Cognitive deficits
   : Stroke may cause problems with thinking, awareness, attention,
   learning, judgment, and memory. If the cognitive problems are severe,
   the stroke patient may be said to have apraxia, agnosia, or "neglect."
   In the context of stroke, neglect means that a stroke patient has no
   knowledge of one side of his or her body, or one side of the visual
   field, and is unaware of the deficit. A stroke patient may be unaware
   of his or her surroundings, or may be unaware of the mental deficits
   that resulted from the stroke.

   Language deficits:
   Stroke victims often have problems understanding or forming speech. A
   deficit in understanding speech is called aphasia. Trouble speaking or
   forming words is called dysarthria. Language problems usually result
   from damage to the left temporal and parietal lobes of the brain.

   Emotional deficits:
   A stroke can lead to emotional problems. Stroke patients may have
   difficulty controlling their emotions or may express inappropriate
   emotions in certain situations. One common disability that occurs with
   many stroke patients is depression. Post-stroke depression may be more
   than a general sadness resulting from the stroke incident. It is a
   clinical behavioral problem that can hamper recovery and rehabilitation
   and may even lead to suicide. Post-stroke depression is treated as any
   depression is treated, with antidepressant medications and therapy.

   Pain:
   Stroke patients may experience pain, uncomfortable numbness, or strange
   sensations after a stroke. These sensations may be due to many factors
   including damage to the sensory regions of the brain, stiff joints, or
   a disabled limb. An uncommon type of pain resulting from stroke is
   called central stroke pain or central pain syndrome (CPS). CPS results
   from damage to an area in the mid-brain called the thalamus. The pain
   is a mixture of sensations, including heat and cold, burning, tingling,
   numbness, and sharp stabbing and underlying aching pain. The pain is
   often worse in the extremities - the hands and feet - and is made worse
   by movement and temperature changes, especially cold temperatures.
   Unfortunately, since most pain medications provide little relief from
   these sensations, very few treatments or therapies exist to combat CPS.

   top

    What Special Risks do Women Face?

   Some risk factors for stroke apply only to women. Primary among these
   are pregnancy, childbirth, and menopause. These risk factors are tied
   to hormonal fluctuations and changes that affect a woman in different
   stages of life. Research in the past few decades has shown that
   high-dose oral contraceptives, the kind used in the 1960s and 1970s,
   can increase the risk of stroke in women. Fortunately, oral
   contraceptives with high doses of estrogen are no longer used and have
   been replaced with safer and more effective oral contraceptives with
   lower doses of estrogen. Some studies have shown the newer low-dose
   oral contraceptives may not significantly increase the risk of stroke
   in women.

   Other studies have demonstrated that pregnancy and childbirth can put a
   woman at an increased risk for stroke. Pregnancy increases the risk of
   stroke as much as three to 13 times. Of course, the risk of stroke in
   young women of childbearing years is very small to begin with, so a
   moderate increase in risk during pregnancy is still a relatively small
   risk. Pregnancy and childbirth cause strokes in approximately eight in
   100,000 women. Unfortunately, 25 percent of strokes during pregnancy
   end in death, and hemorrhagic strokes, although rare, are still the
   leading cause of maternal death in the United States. Subarachnoid
   hemorrhage, in particular, causes one to five maternal deaths per
   10,000 pregnancies.

   A study sponsored by the NINDS showed that the risk of stroke during
   pregnancy is greatest in the post-partum period - the 6 weeks following
   childbirth. The risk of ischemic stroke after pregnancy is about nine
   times higher and the risk of hemorrhagic stroke is more than 28 times
   higher for post-partum women than for women who are not pregnant or
   post-partum. The cause is unknown.

   In the same way that the hormonal changes during pregnancy and
   childbirth are associated with increased risk of stroke, hormonal
   changes at the end of the childbearing years can increase the risk of
   stroke. Several studies have shown that menopause, the end of a woman's
   reproductive ability marked by the termination of her menstrual cycle,
   can increase a woman's risk of stroke. Fortunately, some studies have
   suggested that hormone replacement therapy can reduce some of the
   effects of menopause and decrease stroke risk. Currently, the NINDS is
   sponsoring the Women's Estrogen for Stroke Trial (WEST), a randomized,
   placebo-controlled, double-blind trial, to determine whether estrogen
   therapy can reduce the risk of death or recurrent stroke in
   postmenopausal women who have a history of a recent TIA or
   non-disabling stroke. The mechanism by which estrogen can prove
   beneficial to postmenopausal women could include its role in
   cholesterol control. Studies have shown that estrogen acts to increase
   levels of HDL while decreasing LDL levels.

   top

    Are Children at Risk For Stroke?

   The young have several risk factors unique to them. Young people seem
   to suffer from hemorrhagic strokes more than ischemic strokes, a
   significant difference from older age groups where ischemic strokes
   make up the majority of stroke cases. Hemorrhagic strokes represent 20
   percent of all strokes in the United States and young people account
   for many of these.

   Clinicians often separate the "young" into two categories: those
   younger than 15 years of age, and those 15 to 44 years of age. People
   15 to 44 years of age are generally considered young adults and have
   many of the risk factors mentioned above, such as drug use, alcohol
   abuse, pregnancy, head and neck injuries, heart disease or heart
   malformations, and infections. Some other causes of stroke in the young
   are linked to genetic diseases.

   Medical complications that can lead to stroke in children include
   intracranial infection, brain injury, vascular malformations such as
   moyamoya syndrome, occlusive vascular disease, and genetic disorders
   such as sickle cell anemia, tuberous sclerosis, and Marfan's syndrome.

   The symptoms of stroke in children are different from those in adults
   and young adults. A child experiencing a stroke may have seizures, a
   sudden loss of speech, a loss of expressive language (including body
   language and gestures), hemiparesis (weakness on one side of the body),
   hemiplegia (paralysis on one side of the body), dysarthria (impairment
   of speech), convulsions, headache, or fever. It is a medical emergency
   when a child shows any of these symptoms.

   In children with stroke the underlying conditions that led to the
   stroke should be determined and managed to prevent future strokes. For
   example, a recent clinical study sponsored by the National Heart, Lung,
   and Blood Institute found that giving blood transfusions to young
   children with sickle cell anemia greatly reduces the risk of stroke.
   The Institute even suggests attempting to prevent stroke in high-risk
   children by giving them blood transfusions before they experience a
   stroke.

   Most children who experience a stroke will do better than most adults
   after treatment and rehabilitation. This is due in part to the immature
   brain's great plasticity, the ability to adapt to deficits and injury.
   Children who experience seizures along with stroke do not recover as
   well as children who do not have seizures. Some children may experience
   residual hemiplegia, though most will eventually learn how to walk.

   top

    What Research is Being Done by the NINDS?

   The NINDS is the leading supporter of stroke research in the United
   States and sponsors a wide range of experimental research studies, from
   investigations of basic biological mechanisms to studies with animal
   models and clinical trials.

   Currently, NINDS researchers are studying the mechanisms of stroke risk
   factors and the process of brain damage that results from stroke. Some
   of this brain damage may be secondary to the initial death of brain
   cells caused by the lack of blood flow to the brain tissue. This
   secondary wave of brain injury is a result of a toxic reaction to the
   primary damage and mainly involves the excitatory neurochemical,
   glutamate. Glutamate in the normal brain functions as a chemical
   messenger between brain cells, allowing them to communicate. But an
   excess amount of glutamate in the brain causes too much activity and
   brain cells quickly "burn out" from too much excitement, releasing more
   toxic chemicals, such as caspases, cytokines, monocytes, and
   oxygen-free radicals. These substances poison the chemical environment
   of surrounding cells, initiating a cascade of degeneration and
   programmed cell death, called apoptosis. NINDS researchers are studying
   the mechanisms underlying this secondary insult, which consists mainly
   of inflammation, toxicity, and a breakdown of the blood vessels that
   provide blood to the brain. Researchers are also looking for ways to
   prevent secondary injury to the brain by providing different types of
   neuroprotection for salvagable cells that prevent inflammation and
   block some of the toxic chemicals created by dying brain cells. From
   this research, scientists hope to develop neuroprotective agents to
   prevent secondary damage. For more information on excitotoxicity,
   neuroprotection, and the ischemic cascade, please refer to the
   Appendix.

   Another area of research involves experiments with vasodilators,
   medications that expand or dilate blood vessels and thus increase blood
   flow to the brain. Vasodilators have long been used to treat many
   disorders, including heart disease. Researchers hope that vasodilators
   may aid in the rehabilitation of stroke victims by increasing blood
   flow to the brain. So far, unfortunately, they have shown limited
   success, possibly because they have not been given soon enough after
   the onset of stroke.

   Basic research has also focused on the genetics of stroke and stroke
   risk factors. One area of research involving genetics is gene therapy.
   Gene therapy involves putting a gene for a desired protein in certain
   cells of the body. The inserted gene will then "program" the cell to
   produce the desired protein. If enough cells in the right areas produce
   enough protein, then the protein could be therapeutic. Scientists must
   find ways to deliver the therapeutic DNA to the appropriate cells and
   must learn how to deliver enough DNA to enough cells so that the
   tissues produce a therapeutic amount of protein. Gene therapy is in the
   very early stages of development and there are many problems to
   overcome, including learning how to penetrate the highly impermeable
   blood-brain barrier and how to halt the host's immune reaction to the
   virus that carries the gene to the cells. Some of the proteins used for
   stroke therapy could include neuroprotective proteins,
   anti-inflammatory proteins, and DNA/cellular repair proteins, among
   others.

   The NINDS supports and conducts a wide variety of studies in animals,
   from genetics research on zebrafish to rehabilitation research on
   primates. Much of the Institute's animal research involves rodents,
   specifically mice and rats. For example, one study of hypertension and
   stroke uses rats that have been bred to be hypertensive and therefore
   stroke-prone. By studying stroke in rats, scientists hope to get a
   better picture of what might be happening in human stroke patients.
   Scientists can also use animal models to test promising therapeutic
   interventions for stroke. If a therapy proves to be beneficial to
   animals, then scientists can consider testing the therapy in human
   subjects.

   One promising area of stroke animal research involves hibernation. The
   dramatic decrease of blood flow to the brain in hibernating animals is
   extensive - extensive enough that it would kill a non-hibernating
   animal. During hibernation, an animal's metabolism slows down, body
   temperature drops, and energy and oxygen requirements of brain cells
   decrease. If scientists can discover how animals hibernate without
   experiencing brain damage, then maybe they can discover ways to stop
   the brain damage associated with decreased blood flow in stroke
   patients. Other studies are looking at the role of hypothermia, or
   decreased body temperature, on metabolism and neuroprotection.

   Both hibernation and hypothermia have a relationship to hypoxia and
   edema. Hypoxia, or anoxia, occurs when there is not enough oxygen
   available for brain cells to function properly. Since brain cells
   require large amounts of oxygen for energy requirements, they are
   especially vulnerable to hypoxia. Edema occurs when the chemical
   balance of brain tissue is disturbed and water or fluids flow into the
   brain cells, making them swell and burst, releasing their toxic
   contents into the surrounding tissues. Edema is one cause of general
   brain tissue swelling and contributes to the secondary injury
   associated with stroke.

   The basic and animal studies discussed above do not involve people and
   fall under the category of preclinical research; clinical research
   involves people. One area of investigation that has made the transition
   from animal models to clinical research is the study of the mechanisms
   underlying brain plasticity and the neuronal rewiring that occurs after
   a stroke.

   New advances in imaging and rehabilitation have shown that the brain
   can compensate for function lost as a result of stroke. When cells in
   an area of the brain responsible for a particular function die after a
   stroke, the patient becomes unable to perform that function. For
   example, a stroke patient with an infarct in the area of the brain
   responsible for facial recognition becomes unable to recognize faces, a
   syndrome called facial agnosia. But, in time, the person may come to
   recognize faces again, even though the area of the brain originally
   programmed to perform that function remains dead. The plasticity of the
   brain and the rewiring of the neural connections make it possible for
   one part of the brain to change functions and take up the more
   important functions of a disabled part. This rewiring of the brain and
   restoration of function, which the brain tries to do automatically, can
   be helped with therapy. Scientists are working to develop new and
   better ways to help the brain repair itself to restore important
   functions to the stroke patient.

   One example of a therapy resulting from this research is the use of
   transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) in stroke rehabilitation. Some
   evidence suggests that TMS, in which a small magnetic current is
   delivered to an area of the brain, may possibly increase brain
   plasticity and speed up recovery of function after a stroke. The TMS
   device is a small coil which is held outside of the head, over the part
   of the brain needing stimulation. Currently, several studies at the
   NINDS are testing whether TMS has any value in increasing motor
   function and improving functional recovery.

   top

      Clinical Trials

   Clinical research is usually conducted in a series of trials that
   become progressively larger. A phase I clinical trial is directly built
   upon the lessons learned from basic and animal research and is used to
   test the safety of therapy for a particular disease and to estimate
   possible efficacy in a few human subjects. A phase II clinical trial
   usually involves many subjects at several different centers and is used
   to test safety and possible efficacy on a broader scale, to test
   different dosing for medications or to perfect techniques for surgery,
   and to determine the best methodology and outcome measures for the
   bigger phase III clinical trial to come.

   A phase III clinical trial is the largest endeavor in clinical
   research. This type of trial often involves many centers and many
   subjects. The trial usually has two patient groups who receive
   different treatments, but all other standard care is the same and
   represents the best care available. The trial may compare two
   treatments, or, if there is only one treatment to test, patients who do
   not receive the test therapy receive instead a placebo. The patients
   are told that the additional treatment they are receiving may be either
   the active treatment or a placebo. Many phase III trials are called
   double-blind, randomized clinical trials. Double-blind means that
   neither the subjects nor the doctors and nurses who are treating the
   subjects and determining the response to the therapy know which
   treatment a subject receives. Randomization refers to the placing of
   subjects into one of the treatment groups in a way that can't be
   predicted by the patients or investigators. These clinical trials
   usually involve many investigators and take many years to complete. The
   hypothesis and methods of the trial are very precise and well thought
   out. Clinical trial designs, as well as the concepts of blinding and
   randomization, have developed over years of experimentation, trial, and
   error. At the present time, researchers are developing new designs to
   maximize the opportunity for all subjects to receive therapy.

   Most treatments for general use come out of phase III clinical trials.
   After one or more phase III trials are finished, and if the results are
   positive for the treatment, the investigators can petition the FDA for
   government approval to use the drug or procedure to treat patients.
   Once the treatment is approved by the FDA, it can be used by qualified
   doctors throughout the country. The back packet of this brochure
   contains cards with information on some of the many stroke clinical
   trials the NINDS supports or has completed.

   top

    Where Can I Find More Information?

   The NINDS is the Federal government's leading supporter of biomedical
   research on brain and nervous system disorders, including stroke. The
   NINDS conducts research on stroke in its own laboratories at the
   National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Maryland, and supports
   research at institutions worldwide. The Institute also sponsors an
   active public information program. The address for the Institute, as
   well as information on other organizations that offer various services
   to those affected by stroke, is provided in the Information Resources
   section. Information on the NINDS and its research programs is also
   available at http://www.ninds.nih.gov/.

   top

    Glossary

   acute stroke-a stage of stroke starting at the onset of symptoms and
   last for a few hours thereafter.

   agnosia-a cognitive disability characterized by ignorance of or
   inability to acknowledge one side of the body or one side of the visual
   field.

   aneurysm -a weak or thin spot on an artery wall that has stretched or
   ballooned out from the wall and filled with blood, or damage to an
   artery leading to pooling of blood between the layers of the blood
   vessel walls.

   anoxia-a state of almost no oxygen delivery to a cell, resulting in low
   energy production and possible death of the cell; see hypoxia.

   anticoagulants-a drug therapy used to prevent the formation of blood
   clots that can become lodged in cerebral arteries and cause strokes.

   antiplatelet agents-a type of anticoagulant drug therapy that prevents
   the formation of blood clots by preventing the accumulation of
   platelets that form the basis of blood clots; some common antiplatelets
   include aspirin and ticlopidine; see anticoagulants.

   antithrombotics-a type of anticoagulant drug therapy that prevents the
   formation of blood clots by inhibiting the coagulating actions of the
   blood protein thrombin; some common antithrombotics include warfarin
   and heparin; see anticoagulants.

   aphasia-the inability to understand or create speech, writing, or
   language in general due to damage to the speech centers of the brain.

   apoplexy-a historical, but obsolete term for a cerebral stroke, most
   often intracerebral hemorrhage, that was applied to any condition that
   involved disorientation and/or paralysis.

   apoptosis- a form of cell death involving shrinking of the cell and
   eventual disposal of the internal elements of the cell by the body's
   immune system. Apoptosis is an active, non-toxic form of cell suicide
   that does not induce an inflammatory response. It is often called
   programmed cell death because it is triggered by a genetic signal,
   involves specific cell mechanisms, and is irreversible once initiated.

   apraxia-a movement disorder characterized by the inability to perform
   skilled or purposeful voluntary movements, generally caused by damage
   to the areas of the brain responsible for voluntary movement.

   arteriography-an X-ray of the carotid artery taken when a special dye
   is injected into the artery.

   arteriovenous malformation (AVM)-a congenital disorder characterized by
   a complex tangled web of arteries and veins.

   atherosclerosis-a blood vessel disease characterized by deposits of
   lipid material on the inside of the walls of large to medium-sized
   arteries which make the artery walls thick, hard, brittle, and prone to
   breaking.

   atrial fibrillation-irregular beating of the left atrium, or left upper
   chamber, of the heart.

   blood-brain barrier-an elaborate network of supportive brain cells,
   called glia, that surrounds blood vessels and protects neurons from the
   toxic effects of direct exposure to blood.

   carotid artery-an artery, located on either side of the neck, that
   supplies the brain with blood.

   carotid endarterectomy-surgery used to remove fatty deposits from the
   carotid arteries.

   central stroke pain (central pain syndrome)-pain caused by damage to an
   area in the thalamus. The pain is a mixture of sensations, including
   heat and cold, burning, tingling, numbness, and sharp stabbing and
   underlying aching pain.

   cerebral blood flow (CBF)-the flow of blood through the arteries that
   lead to the brain, called the cerebrovascular system.

   cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)-clear fluid that bathes the brain and spinal
   cord.

   cerebrovascular disease-a reduction in the supply of blood to the brain
   either by narrowing of the arteries through the buildup of plaque on
   the inside walls of the arteries, called stenosis, or through blockage
   of an artery due to a blood clot.

   cholesterol-a waxy substance, produced naturally by the liver and also
   found in foods, that circulates in the blood and helps maintain tissues
   and cell membranes. Excess cholesterol in the body can contribute to
   atherosclerosis and high blood pressure.

   "clipping"-surgical procedure for treatment of brain aneurysms,
   involving clamping an aneurysm from a blood vessel, surgically removing
   this ballooned part of the blood vessel, and closing the opening in the
   artery wall.

   computed tomography (CT) scan-a series of cross-sectional X-rays of the
   brain and head; also called computerized axial tomography or CAT scan.

   Coumadin^®-a commonly used anticoagulant, also known as warfarin.

   cytokines-small, hormone-like proteins released by leukocytes,
   endothelial cells, and other cells to promote an inflammatory immune
   response to an injury.

   cytotoxic edema-a state of cell compromise involving influx of fluids
   and toxic chemicals into a cell causing subsequent swelling of the
   cell.

   detachable coil-a platinum coil that is inserted into an artery in the
   thigh and strung through the arteries to the site of an aneurysm. The
   coil is released into the aneurysm creating an immune response from the
   body. The body produces a blood clot inside the aneurysm, strengthening
   the artery walls and reducing the risk of rupture.

   duplex Doppler ultrasound-a diagnostic imaging technique in which an
   image of an artery can be formed by bouncing sound waves off the moving
   blood in the artery and measuring the frequency changes of the echoes.

   dysarthria-a language disorder characterized by difficulty with
   speaking or forming words.

   dysphagia-trouble eating and swallowing.

   edema-the swelling of a cell that results from the influx of large
   amounts of water or fluid into the cell.

   embolic stroke-a stroke caused by an embolus.

   embolus-a free-roaming clot that usually forms in the heart.

   endothelial wall-a flat layer of cells that make up the innermost
   lining of a blood vessel.

   excitatory amino acids-a subset of neurotransmitters; proteins released
   by one neuron into the space between two neurons to promote an
   excitatory state in the other neuron.

   extracranial/intracranial (EC/IC) bypass-a type of surgery that
   restores blood flow to a blood-deprived area of brain tissue by
   rerouting a healthy artery in the scalp to the area of brain tissue
   affected by a blocked artery.

   functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI)-a type of imaging that
   measures increases in blood flow within the brain.

   glia-also called neuroglia; supportive cells of the nervous system that
   make up the blood-brain barrier, provide nutrients and oxygen to the
   vital neurons, and protect the neurons from infection, toxicity, and
   trauma. Some examples of glia are oligodendroglia, astrocytes, and
   microglia.

   glutamate-also known as glutamic acid, an amino acid that acts as an
   excitatory neurotransmitter in the brain.

   hemiparesis-weakness on one side of the body.

   hemiplegia-paralysis on one side of the body.

   hemorrhagic stroke-sudden bleeding into or around the brain.

   heparin-a type of anticoagulant.

   high-density lipoprotein (HDL)-also known as the good cholesterol; a
   compound consisting of a lipid and a protein that carries a small
   percentage of the total cholesterol in the blood and deposits it in the
   liver.

   homeostasis-a state of equilibrium or balance among various fluids and
   chemicals in a cell, in tissues, or in the body as a whole.

   hypertension (high blood pressure)-characterized by persistently high
   arterial blood pressure defined as a measurement greater than or equal
   to 140 mm/Hg systolic pressure over 90 mm/Hg diastolic pressure.

   hypoxia-a state of decreased oxygen delivery to a cell so that the
   oxygen falls below normal levels; see anoxia.

   incidence-the extent or frequency of an occurrence; the number of
   specific new events in a given period of time.

   infarct-an area of tissue that is dead or dying because of a loss of
   blood supply.

   infarction-a sudden loss of blood supply to tissue, causing the
   formation of an infarct.

   interleukins-a group of cytokine-related proteins secreted by
   leukocytes and involved in the inflammatory immune response of the
   ischemic cascade.

   intracerebral hemorrhage-occurs when a vessel within the brain leaks
   blood into the brain.

   ischemia-a loss of blood flow to tissue, caused by an obstruction of
   the blood vessel, usually in the form of plaque stenosis or a blood
   clot.

   ischemic cascade-a series of events lasting for several hours to
   several days following initial ischemia that results in extensive cell
   death and tissue damage beyond the area of tissue originally affected
   by the initial lack of blood flow.

   ischemic penumbra-areas of damaged, but still living, brain cells
   arranged in a patchwork pattern around areas of dead brain cells.

   ischemic stroke-ischemia in the tissues of the brain.

   lacunar infarction-occlusion of a small artery in the brain resulting
   in a small area of dead brain tissue, called a lacunar infarct; often
   caused by stenosis of the small arteries, called small vessel disease.

   large vessel disease-stenosis in large arteries of the cerebrovascular
   system.

   leukocytes-blood proteins involved in the inflammatory immune response
   of the ischemic cascade.

   lipoprotein-small globules of cholesterol covered by a layer of
   protein; produced by the liver.

   low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-also known as the bad cholesterol; a
   compound consisting of a lipid and a protein that carries the majority
   of the total cholesterol in the blood and deposits the excess along the
   inside of arterial walls.

   magnetic resonance angiography (MRA)-an imaging technique involving
   injection of a contrast dye into a blood vessel and using magnetic
   resonance techniques to create an image of the flowing blood through
   the vessel; often used to detect stenosis of the brain arteries inside
   the skull.

   magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan-a type of imaging involving the
   use of magnetic fields to detect subtle changes in the water content of
   tissues.

   mitochondria-the energy producing organelles of the cell.

   mitral annular calcification-a disease of the mitral valve of the
   heart.

   mitral valve stenosis-a disease of the mitral heart valve involving the
   buildup of plaque-like material on and around the valve.

   necrosis-a form of cell death resulting from anoxia, trauma, or any
   other form of irreversible damage to the cell; involves the release of
   toxic cellular material into the intercellular space, poisoning
   surrounding cells.

   neuron-the main functional cell of the brain and nervous system,
   consisting of a cell body, an axon, and dendrites.

   neuroprotective agents-medications that protect the brain from
   secondary injury caused by stroke.
