http://photogallery.nrcs.usda.gov/Privacy.htm


  United States Department of Agriculture Web Site Natural Resources
                                                   Conservation Service Web Site

            Gallery Home   Advanced Search   Using Gallery   Comments
                                Privacy Statement
                                 [GreenDot.gif]

        Thank you for visiting this web site managed by the United States
     Department of Agriculture. Please review our privacy statement. We have
                      a firm, clear commitment to privacy:


      We will collect no personal information about you when you visit our
      website unless you choose to provide that information to us.

       Here is how we handle information about your visit to our web site:

                 Information Collected and Stored Automatically

      If you do nothing during your visit but browse through the web site,
      read pages, or download information, we will gather and store certain
      information about your visit automatically. This information does not
      identify you personally. We automatically collect and store only the
                     following information about your visit:
       * The Internet domain (for example, "xcompany.com" if you use a
         private Internet access account, or "yourschool.edu" if you connect
         from a university's domain) and IP address (an IP address is a
         number that is automatically assigned to your computer whenever you
         are surfing the Web) from which you access our web site;
       * The type of browser and operating system used to access our site;

       * The date and time you access our site;

       * The pages you visit; and

       * If you linked to the U.S. Department of Agriculture website from
         another web site, the address of that web site.


         We use this information to help us make our site more useful to
      visitors - to learn about the number of visitors to our site and the
      types of technology our visitors are using. We do not track or record
     information about individuals and their visits. We use your IP address
       to help diagnose problems with our server and to administer our web
                                      site.

                       If You Send Us Personal Information

        If you choose to provide us with personal information through our
      feedback page, we use that information to respond to your message and
     to help us locate for you the information you have requested. We treat
      e-mails the same way that we regard letters sent to the USDA. We are
     required to maintain many documents under the Presidential Records Act
     for historical purposes, but we do not collect personal information for
     any purpose other than to respond to you. We only share the information
      you give us with another government agency if your inquiry relates to
        that agency, or as otherwise required by law. Moreover, we do not
     create individual profiles with the information you provide or to give
     it to any private organizations. The USDA does not collect information
                            for commercial marketing.

                              Links to Other Sites

      Our web site has links to many other federal agencies. In a few cases
        we link to private organizations, with their permission. Once you
      access another site through a link that we provide you are subject to
                       the privacy policy of the new site.

                                Web Site Security

      Information presented on the NRCS PhotoGallery web site is considered
     public information and may be distributed or copied. Use of appropriate
                    byline/photo/image credits is requested.
       * For site security purposes and to ensure that this service remains
         available to all users, this government computer system employs
         software programs to monitor network traffic to identify
         unauthorized attempts to upload or change information, or otherwise
         cause damage.

       * Except for authorized law enforcement investigations, no other
         attempts are made to identify individual users or their usage
         habits. Raw data logs are used for no other purposes and are
         scheduled for regular destruction in accordance with National
         Archives and Records Administration General Schedule 20.

       * Unauthorized attempts to upload information or change information
         on this service are strictly prohibited and may be punishable under
         the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986 and the National
         Information Infrastructure Protection Act.

       * If we exchange any information with you regarding your
         participation with USDA programs, we will encrypt that information
         to reduce the risk of any unauthorized person capturing that
         information.


                             Contacting the Web Site

      If you have any questions about this privacy statement, the practices
       of this site, or your dealings with this web site, you can contact:


      Electronic Access
      USDA, NRCS
      2150 Centre Ave., Bldg. A
      Fort Collins, CO 80526

                              [600x36GreenWave.gif]
                          [USEMAP:600x43USDA_NRCS.jpg]
