http://stabenow.senate.gov/press/2002/012402reverse.htm

                            [USEMAP:menubar2.gif]

      [adobe.gif] Click here to view this release as PDF (Adobe Acrobat
                              Reader required).
                                [jointpr.gif]

                            FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
                              January 24, 2002

                Contact: Kathleen Long 202-224-2472 (Levin)
                         Dave Lemmon 202-224-4822 (Stabenow)

                              [placeholder.gif]

    Levin, Stabenow Continue to Push for Reverse Inspections at Northern
                                   Border
    Customs Service established a commission to review potential reverse
                      inspection program, Senators told

   WASHINGTON -- In response to urging from Sens. Carl Levin, D-Mich., and
   Debbie Stabenow, D-Mich., the U.S. Customs Service today announced that
   it supports a reverse inspection program as a "potential option to
   alleviate cross border congestion," but laid out a number of obstacles
   which would need to be resolved before implementing such a program.
   Earlier this month, the Michigan Senators wrote to Customs Commissioner
   Robert C. Bonner urging him to consider a reverse inspection program
   along the Northern Border or a pilot reverse inspection program in
   Southeast Michigan. Such a program would enable customs officials to
   inspect vehicles for hazardous materials before they cross bridges and
   tunnels into the U.S.
   "I am heartened to hear that the U.S. Customs Service supports
   implementing a reverse inspection program as a potential solution to
   lessen congestion and increase security along the Northern Border,"
   Levin said. "Their support is the first hurdle that has to be cleared
   before we can get such a program in place. Commissioner Bonner and his
   Canadian counterpart, Commissioner Robert Wright, have already set up a
   bi-national working group to look into this and other Northern Border
   security issues, so hopefully we will see progress on this issue in the
   near future."

   "I am strongly encouraged that the U.S. Customs Service is supporting
   our efforts to implement reverse inspections at our Northern Border
   crossings. If we are going to provide the kind of security that most
   Americans expect, it only makes sense to inspect vehicles before they
   enter the tunnel or get onto one of our bridges. We should not
   shortchange efforts to provide Americans with greater security. Gaining
   the support of the U.S. Customs Service is an absolutely critical step
   in changing this outdated policy," Stabenow concluded.

   In a letter to the Senators, Commissioner Bonner said that the Customs
   Service has completed its review of reverse inspection and reported its
   findings. In response to the letter, the Senators further asked the
   Customs Service to identify any statutory changes which they believe
   would be necessary to implement the reverse inspection program.

   Letters follow.

                                     ###
                              January 23, 2002

                       The Honorable Robert C. Bonner
                                Commissioner
                            U.S. Customs Service
                         U.S. Department of Treasury
                        1300 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW
                            Washington, DC 20229

                          Dear Commissioner Bonner:

     We are writing to follow up on your January 22nd letter on reverse
    inspection. We are pleased to know that the Customs Service supports
     reverse inspection as a potential option to alleviate cross border
     congestion and increased security along the Northern Border. As you
    know, we believe a program of reverse inspection would significantly
    improve the security of our infrastructure on the Northern Border and
                   we hope it can be implemented quickly.

   Your letter pointed out that implementing a reverse inspection program
     would require certain legislative changes to U.S. and Canadian law.
    Please identify, with as much specificity as possible, any statutory
    changes that you believe would have to be made in order to implement
    such a program. In addition, please provide a list of the members of
      the bi?national working group created to address Northern Border
            security issues and the dates when this group meets.

        We would like to work with you to help address any potential
    impediments to implementing the reverse inspection program, including
    working to make the statutory changes that might be required. We look
    forward to your prompt reply and to working closely with you on this
                              important issue.

                                 Sincerely,

                         Debbie Stabenow Carl Levin

                                   CL/amp

                                     ###


                            U.S. Customs Service
            1300 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20229
                        202-927-2001 Fax 202-927-1380
                           Commissioner of Customs

                              January 22, 2002

                          The Honorable Carl Levin
                            United States Senate
                           Washington, D.C. 20510

                             Dear Senator Levin:

       Thank you for the letter of January 4, 2002, regarding security
   concerns at the Northern Border. In your correspondence, you expressed
   support for the implementation of a reverse inspection program, citing
    passenger pre-clearance operations as a precedent, and you suggested
    establishing a pilot program in Southwest Michigan. We have recently
       completed our review. Please allow me to outline our findings.

    The Customs Service supports this as a potential option to alleviate
      cross border congestion and increased security along the Northern
    Border. I have met with Commissioner Robert Wright of Canada Customs
    and Revenue Agency (CCRA) and together we have created a bi-national
      working group to address various Northern Border security issues,
         including the possibility of a reverse inspection program.

   This is a complex matter, which requires the bilateral group to address
    a number of issues. These issues include authorities and liabilities
      associated with U.S. customs enforcing laws in Canada. Staffing,
     technology, and infrastructure relating to reverse inspections also
         require coordination with other U.S. and Canadian agencies.

   In your letter, you mentioned the pre-clearance operations in place at
    selected airports in Canada. Our pre-clearance authority derives from
   specific Canadian legislation, the Pre-clearance Act, which was enacted
   to permit our inspectors limited enforcement of U.S. law in Canada and
      authorized specific, but limited, search, seizure, and detention
   powers. The scope of this legislation, however, does not extend beyond
   the identified airport pre-clearance locations. Accordingly, effective
     Customs enforcement of U.S. law on Canadian territory would require
   legislative change to Canadian law. Moreover, before implementing this
   concept, it would be necessary for the U.S. Customs Service to have the
    same legal authority and ability to enforce U.S. law as they would if
     they were clearing on the U.S. side of the border. This would most
                 probably require U.S. legislation as well.

     I appreciate your interest in the Customs Service. If we may offer
    further assistance, please contact me or have a member of your staff
   contact Mr. Richard F. Quinn, deputy Assistant Commissioner, Office of
                  Congressional Affairs, at (202) 927-1760.

                                Yours truly,

                              Robert C. Bonner
                                Commissioner



   [transparent.gif] [transparent.gif] [transparent.gif] [transparent.gif]
   [transparent.gif] [transparent.gif] [transparent.gif] [transparent.gif]
                              [transparent.gif]
