http://freedom.house.gov/library/dabio.asp

   Freedom Works: Office of the House Majority Leader
   Home > Rep. Armey's Bio

                           Congressman Dick Armey

     Dick Armey was born July 7, 1940 in Cando, ND, the fifth of eight
     children to Glenn and Marian Armey. Armey graduated from Cando High
     School in 1958 and went to work climbing power poles for the REA.

     Cando, ND
     It's pronounced "can do"

     One cold winter night while atop a 30-foot pole, Armey had something
     of an epiphany regarding the value of a college education. At 3
     a.m., with the temperature 30 below zero, Armey thought to himself,
     "I'm not sure I want to be doing this when I'm 40," and decided to
     go to college.

     The following January, he enrolled at Jamestown College in
     Jamestown, NorthDakota, the first in his family to go to college. He
     was about to finish his studies and enter the world of work when an
     influential professor, Dr. Robert Biggs, suggested to him that "you
     ought to go to graduate school. You'll be a great economist if
     you'll just go study."

     That he did, enrolling in the Masters program at the University of
     North Dakota in 1963. From there it was on to the University of
     Oklahoma and a Ph.D. in economics. Armey then began his teaching
     career, starting at the University of Montana, then moving on to
     West Texas State, and Austin College.

     In 1972, he began what would be a 13-year stint at the University of
     North Texas. In 1977 Armey became chairman of North Texas' Economics
     Department, a promotion that he said took him away from the teaching
     he loved and into the "more political" part of the university. He
     wondered, for the first time, if his future lay in academics or
     elsewhere.

     Legend has it that Dick Armey decided to pursue a career in public
     service while watching C-SPAN one night. For Armey, Washington had
     always seemed as a far off place where people were bigger than life.
     C-SPAN demystified Congress, convincing Armey that he could work
     effectively as an equal with the House members he came to know
     through television.

     Armey was a strong believer in the policies of Ronald Reagan and he
     knew the President needed reinforcements in Congress. He was first
     elected to Congress in 1984 and went to Washington in 1985 as a
     novice, as he has said many times:"When I came to Washington, the
     only Congressman I'd known or spent much time with was the man I
     beat."

     Although Armey quickly made a name for himself in Washington as a
     member dedicated to good public policy based on conservative
     principles, the first notice Armey drew was for his sleeping habits
     not his legislating skills. As a freshman, he slept first in the
     House gym and then, after being ejected by then-Speaker O'Neill, on
     his office couch.

     "I wasn't doing it to make a political statement, but because I had
     four boys in college. What parent wouldn't do the same? I always
     dreamed about sending my kids to college; I never dreamed about
     having an apartment in Washington, D.C."

     After winning re-election in 1986, Armey had his first important
     legislative success: passage of an amendment with Congressman Jack
     Kemp and Delegate Walter Fauntroy to reform public housing. Armey
     called passage of this legislation "the most heart-warming work I've
     done. It makes you feel like you're really making a difference."

     Equally important during that second term, Armey passed landmark
     legislation that would first bring him national attention. Working
     with key Democrats like Ron Dellums, Les Aspin, and Joe Moakley and
     often times in opposition to the Reagan Defense Department, Armey
     succeeded in crafting and passing unique legislation to close down
     obsolete military bases. His one-on-one efforts with his colleagues
     and the nation's editorial writers proved key to his ultimate
     success. As a result of Armey's work, more than 100 obsolete bases
     are being closed, saving the taxpayers $4 billion per year.

                                         Reagan signing base closure bill
                                            Reagan signs closure bill

     As the Wall Street Journal reported in June of 1988, "By tempering
     his tactics without abandoning his goals, he is getting legislation
     passed." As Armey himself noted, "You can be so ideologically
     hidebound that you can cut yourself out of the process." Along with
     his housing reforms, it was the start of a long string of bipartisan
     efforts behind conservative goals.

     After the success of base closing, Armey found a new challenge in
     federal farm policy. Growing up in the heart of farm country, he
     knew that federal farm programs often caused more problems than they
     solved. And his economic training taught him that government
     controls never work.

     Armey and other conservative Republicans formed a bipartisan
     coalition with urban liberals like Chuck Schumer and Barney Frank.
     According to U.S. News and World Report, they saved taxpayers $14
     billion by pressuring the agriculture committees to bring forward
     leaner bills. The work they did in 1990 laid the groundwork for the
     free market reforms passed in the 1996 Freedom to Farm legislation.

     It wasn't all bipartisanship for Armey in 1990. During that summer
     President Bush broke his no new taxes pledge and went to summit with
     congressional Democrats. That was too much for congressional
     Republicans. The Republican Conference, by a 3-to-1 margin, passed
     Armey's resolution opposing "new taxes and all tax-rate increases as
     a means of reducing the federal budget deficit."

     His leadership in opposition to taxes in 1990 caused the House
     Republican leadership to realize that Dick Armey was influential
     within the Conference. Thus, in January of 1991, Armey was appointed
     ranking Republican on the Joint Economic Committee. The post allowed
     Armey to use his academic training to rebut Congressional liberals'
     attacks on the Reagan economic record and to point out just how and
     how often the Democrats used funny numbers to buttress their policy
     arguments.

     The 1990 budget battle had another more profound effect on Dick
     Armey. It made him wonder how virtually the entire Republican
     leadership in the House and Senate could support a tax increase that
     was so wildly unpopular among rank-and-file members.

     Armey realized that he and the dominant philosophy he represented
     would continue to be ignored so long as those beliefs were not
     present in the room when key decisions were made. After careful
     consideration, in June of 1992, Armey decided to seek a place in the
     Republican leadership as Conference Chairman.

     Armey signs balanced budget amdt.
     Armey signs balanced budget amendment

     Many dismissed his candidacy as conservative noise-making. But Armey
     followed the same plan he used with base-closing and other
     legislative victories. He talked to his colleagues one-on-one, he
     made his case, and he was persistent.

     On December 8, 1992, Armey won his race 88-84. While some tried to
     paint the race in ideological terms, Armey described it as a triumph
     of activism. He went on to turn the Republican Conference into the
     nerve center for communications and coalition building during the
     103rd Congress.

     Republicans were truly in the minority in January of 1993. The
     Democrats still controlled Congress and Bill Clinton was the newly
     inaugurated president. It was a challenge for Republicans.

     Despite the losing battle to stop the largest tax increase in
     history and increasing bitterness over the Clinton health care plan,
     Armey was able to set aside partisanship to work for NAFTA.

     When some people who put politics first suggested it was best to let
     the treaty die and weaken President Clinton, Armey instead lobbied
     his colleagues heavily, and took on the arguments made by NAFTA foes
     like Pat Buchanan and Ross Perot.

     Armey told PBS' Charlie Rose, "We are taking the position that what
     is important for this nation, this hemisphere, and the world in
     freedom and prosperity for our children is more important than the
     politics of the moment and we are working with the President on this
     issue."

     By 1994, the public was disenchanted with Congress. Republicans, who
     were in the minority, believed that the American people were ready
     for a bold and dynamic legislative agenda. The result was the
     Contract with America, of which Armey was the main author.

     The Contract was a collection of ten bills that Republicans would
     bring up for a vote during the first 100 days of a
     Republican-controlled Congress. The motto was: "If we don't keep our
     word, throw us out."

     The Contract was a success. Republicans took control of the House
     for the first time in 40 years. Throughout the summer and fall, many
     of his colleagues and most of the press refused to take Armey
     seriously when he told them he was running for Majority Leader in
     the 104th Congress. Armey once again proved the conventional wisdom
     wrong. He was unopposed for the Leader's post.

      Upon taking office Armey delivered the line he has repeated often
       since, "The American people didn't give us power, they gave us
    responsibility." "The American people didn't give us power, they gave
                             us responsibility."

     The 104th was one of the most productive Congresses in recent
     memory. Fully 60 percent of the Contract with America was signed
     into law, including a historic welfare reform bill. Congress passed
     the first balanced budget in a generation as well as overhauls of
     telecommunications, farming, and health care.

     In 1996, Republicans earned their first re-election as a majority in
     76 years. Working closely with Speaker Hastert, Armey will continue
     to manage the day-to-day affairs of the House during this
     Congressional session.

     Despite a reputation for confrontation, Armey's record is one of
     bipartisanship. As he said in 1993, "I've never had a confrontation
     with another member of Congress that was the source of any
     enjoyment. It's a part of the job that has to be done. You can
     compromise on details, you can compromise on strategies, but you
     must never compromise on principles."

     In the past, Armey has been referred to as an idea machine and a
     one-man think tank. Armey has written three books, Price Theory: A
     Policy-Welfare Approach (1977), The Freedom Revolution (1995) and
     The Flat Tax (1996). During this Congress he will continue his work
     on a major overhaul of the tax code, with special emphasis on his 17
     percent flat tax.

     Armey meets fish

     Armey and his wife Susan attend Lewisville Bible Church. They have
     five children. Armey is an avid bass fisherman and believes in the
     restorative powers of fishing, where he can put aside the pressures
     of work and spend time with his wife and children.

        Fishing picture by David Woo, courtesy of the Dallas Morning News

            Front Page | Get Updates | Site Map | News & Info | Search
   Freedom Works: Home Page of the Office of the House Majority Leader
