http://www.atdd.noaa.gov/canaan%20valley/canaanvalley.htm



                Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division

                            Canaan Valley Studies

                                              {short description of image}


     Home
     Overview
     What's New
     Programs

     ETOS
     GEWEX
     ISIS
     Climate
     Canaan Valley
     Other projects

     Personnel
     Publications

   The mid-Atlantic Highland region is known to be adversely impacted by
   the atmospheric deposition of pollutants. In fact, portions of this
   area are considered to be among the worst in the nation for acid rain.
   Consequently, NOAA Air Resources Laboratory's (NOAA/ARL) Atmospheric
   Turbulence and Diffusion Division, with support from the Canaan Valley
   Institute and in collaboration with the U. S. Fish and Wildlife
   Service, has initiated an air quality research and monitoring site on
   the Canaan Valley National Wildlife Refuge in Canaan Valley, WV (39 03'
   48" N, 79 25' 15" W).

   Picture of Canaan Valley

   The research at this site will initially focus on acid deposition,
   nitrogen deposition and ambient ozone levels. Acid deposition from the
   atmosphere can be a significant source of acidification in watersheds.
   Excess nitrogen, since it is a nutrient, can cause alterations in the
   balance of plant and animal life, and can lead to depleted oxygen
   levels in lakes and streams. Ozone, although beneficial and necessary
   in the upper atmosphere, is a powerful oxidizing agent which can kill
   plant and lung tissue.

   Since 1 June 2000, standard meteorological measurements as well as NOAA
   Atmospheric Integrated Research Monitoring Network wet deposition
   sampling (NOAA/AIRMoN-wet) have been performed. This sampling provides
   daily analysis of the amount of precipitation as well as
   characteristics such as pH, conductivity, and a number of ion
   concentrations. The daily sampling protocol provides higher temporal
   resolution of precipitation events (many other sites only perform
   weekly sampling) and allows for more accurate determination of source
   regions. The AIRMoN-wet network of stations is part of the National
   Atmospheric Deposition Program (NADP), a larger nationwide network of
   precipitation monitoring stations.

   These two initial measurement systems are the first phase of a more
   comprehensive effort to assess atmospheric pollutant deposition to the
   Canaan Valley region.

   Photo of measurement systems

   In the Spring of 2001 a NOAA/AIRMoN-dry measurement suite, which will
   monitor the deposition of pollutants in the gaseous or particulate
   phase, is planned for deployment. This will allow the measurement of
   pollutant deposition through both "wet" and "dry" means, both of which
   are vital to assessing total deposition, because the relative
   contributions of each are often nearly equal.

   An ultimate goal of the deposition studies is to be able to improve the
   current models used for predicting atmospheric deposition over various
   types of land cover, particularly in mountainous regions. Wet
   deposition by means of rain and snow can be considered more
   straightforward than dry deposition, since the wet removal process is
   in large part a function of rainfall and snowfall amounts over any land
   cover. However, dry deposition is strongly a function of land cover, as
   well as air pollutant species, and the models which describe this
   mechanism are complex. Consequently, in part to support the modeling
   efforts, additional measurement systems, including surface energy
   balance and surface radiation balance (SURFRAD) instrument suites, are
   also planned to be deployed in the near future. These systems will act
   to link land cover characteristics to atmospheric conditions as they
   relate to pollutant deposition.
   Photo of tower

   To access meteorological data and a current image from the Canaan
   Valley air quality research and monitoring site click here.

   If there are any questions or comments regarding the atmospheric
   studies in Canaan Valley, please contact Chris Vogel.


   Webmaster
   Updated:June 19, 2001
