http://www.ecd.bnl.gov/OpenHouse/openhouse.html

                                [bnllogo.gif]

                        ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCES DIVISION

                               2001 OPEN HOUSE

   On Sunday August 26, 2001, The Atmospheric Sciences Division of
   Brookhaven National Laboratory played host to the local community as
   part of the lab’s Summer Sunday tour program. Over 500 visitors toured
   the facilities.

   The research of the Division is concerned mainly with influences of
   energy related activities on the atmospheric environment. Key subjects
   of investigation are ozone and other oxidants, atmospheric aerosols
   (small particles suspended in air) and climate change. Research in the
   Division also addresses the development and application of tracer
   compounds that can be used to track atmospheric transport and have
   found a variety of other applications, such as detection of leaks in
   dielectric fluids employed in underground electric transmission cables.
   Many of these activities are summarized in a series of posters that
   were prepared for this Open House. These posters are available as a 4.4
   Mbyte pdf [pdficon.gif] file. To view them click here.


   The tour started off with a slide presentation overview of the
   Division’s activities.

                                [Image11.jpg]

   The next stop was the sulfate aerosol movie theater. This station
   showed an animation of the output of a chemical transport model that
   calculates the distribution of sulfate aerosol in the Northern
   Hemisphere. The animation is available on the web as a QuickTime ®
   movie. Click here to go to the movie. This station also featured a
   LIDAR (LIght Detection and Ranging) instrument that can measure the
   concentration and composition of atmospheric particles at distances of
   several hundred meters. A larger LIDAR, with range up to several
   kilometers, is deployed in one of the Division’s instrumented vans.

                                [Image12.jpg]

   After that the visitors went outside to see the instrumented vans that
   are used in our field studies. This photo shows two of the atmospheric
   chemistry vans.

                                [Image13.jpg]



   This photo shows a van operated by Consolidated Edison of New York that
   uses the perfluorocarbon tracer technique developed at Brookhaven to
   detect leaks of dielectric insulating fluids employed in underground
   electric transmission cables. Thanks to the folks at ConEd for making
   this van available for the Open House!

                                [Image14.jpg]




   In one of the labs visitors were shown an instrument that counts the
   concentration of aerosol particles in a cubic centimeter of air. What
   fraction of the number of particles that you inhale are retained in
   your lungs? This question was answered by measuring the number of
   particles in exhaled air, compared to room air. A surprisingly large
   fraction is retained, upwards of 60% in some instances. Something to
   think about! The panel in the background shows the concentration of
   atmospheric aerosol particles as a function of time over a two-week
   time period. Note the increased concentrations during the daytime.

                                [Image16.jpg]


   A single-particle mass spectrometer is used to determine the size and
   chemical composition of individual particles. It uses a combination of
   several lasers to detect particles, determine their size, and then
   vaporize and ionize them to permit chemical identification.

                                [Image17.jpg]

   The next stop on the tour dealt with the greenhouse effect, the
   increase in atmospheric concentrations of carbon dioxide due to fossil
   fuel combustion, the resulting increase in Earth temperature, and the
   sources of carbon dioxide.

                                [Image18.jpg]

   This photo shows a one-gallon gasoline can and various amounts of
   carbon, in the form of charcoal. Every gallon of gasoline contains 5
   lbs. of carbon, and this carbon is emitted into the atmosphere as
   carbon dioxide when the gasoline is burned. Who is responsible for the
   increase in atmospheric CO[2]? We all are.

                                [Image15.jpg]

   At the end of the tour visitors were treated to some light refreshments
   while waiting for the bus back to Berkner Hall.

                                [Image19.jpg]

   The Atmospheric Sciences Division was pleased to host members of the
   local community on their visit and thanks visitors for their attendance
   and their interest in our programs.



                                 THANK YOU!

      This page was last updated 2001-08-31.

                         Privacy and Security Notice
