http://www.kids.gov/k_history.htm




                               [smlsearch.gif]
                                   Search
    "" Logo image linking to FirstGov for Kids. Logo image linking to the
                     Federal Consumer Information Center
   Arts - Careers - Computers - Environment - Fighting Crime - Fun Stuff -
         Geography - Global Village - Government - Health - History
    Homework - Money - Music - Plants and Animals - Recreation - Safety -
                  Science and Math - Space - Transportation
                               Separator image
      Image of boy pilgrim History Our past is an important part of our
    lives. There are so many amazing facts that we should know. Pop quiz:
   What year did Columbus arrive in the Americas? Answer: 1492. Now you're
                             ready for Jeopardy!
                               Separator image

                              Government Sites
               (these sites are not maintained by kids.gov *)
   Item America's Story - Discover the stories of America's past.Jump back
       in time, meet amazing Americans, explore the states and more.
    Item American Memory - Visit the digital library and learn all about
                       American history and culture.
   Item American Treasures of the Library of Congress - A guide to some of
        the "treasures" in the Library of Congress. Check out Thomas
     Jefferson's handwritten draft of the Declaration of Independence.
      Item Edison National Historic Site - Edison's improvements to the
        telegraph and the telephone placed him on the cutting edge of
      communication technology at the turn of the Twentieth Century. If
    Edison were living today, he would be interested in both the Internet
    and the World Wide Web, a technology that can now make the legacy of
             the world's most famous inventor available to you.
    Item Enactment of a Law - Library of Congress site about the steps to
                    enact a law in the U.S. Government.
      Item Encyclopedia Smithsonian - Encyclopedia Smithsonian features
    answers to frequently asked questions about the Smithsonian and links
         to Smithsonian resources on subjects from Art to Zoology.
      Item First Ladies of the United States - They came from different
      social and economic backgrounds, from many different geographical
   regions, and with diverse education preparation. Each First Lady served
    our country well and each left her own mark. Visit this site to learn
                              more about them.
    Item Learning Page - Library of Congress - Learn about United States
      history and culture. View unique and rare documents, photographs,
                        films, and audio recordings.
       Item Links to the Past - Explore America's cultural resources -
     buildings, landscapes, archeological sites, ethnographic resources,
              objects and documents, structures and districts.
    Item National Gallery of Art - Choose a tour by school or medium and
   explore the National Gallery's collections of painting, sculpture, and
                               graphic arts.
   Item National Museum of American History - Learn interesting historical
                facts by clicking on the alphabetical list.
    Item Not Just for Kids - In the Hands On History Room at the Museum,
      you can climb on a highwheel bicycle and pedal, send a message by
        telegraph, and get your hands on history in many other ways.
        Item Our World - The Library of Congress web site shares its
     collections, stories, online collections and more for students and
                                 teachers.
        Item Presidents of the United States - The biographies of the
    presidents' give us a clear look into the highs and lows of American
   history. Learn more about the presidents and the change we faced in the
                      past and challenges yet to come.
   Item The Library of Congress Exhibitions - View the collections of the
    Library of Congress. From designs of famous architects to the history
       of the Wizard of Oz, there is something for everyone to enjoy.
   Item The Music of Sound - Neanderthal Jam - You could learn a lot from
     old musical instruments. We're not talking about a pawnshop full of
   rusted saxophones and busted guitars, but about partly fossilized bones
          with holes that look suspiciously like wind instruments.
    Item The Music Room - The Museum also explores history through dozens
                    of musical performances every year.
     Item Today In History - The Library of Congress began a day-by-day
    listing of historical events. Search the archive for the day of your
                                  choice.
    Item Triumph of the Baroque - Explore Baroque architecture in Europe
     from 1600-1750 with this National Gallery of Art exhibit. See what
     churches, chapels, palaces, and private homes of the period looked
                                   like.
    Item Truman Library Kids Page - Learn all about Harry Truman, former
   president of the United States and all sorts of other "Truman" trivia.
   Item U.S. House of Representatives - Great site for Government homework
       projects. Contains lots of documents related to the legislative
                                  process.

                             Organization Sites
                 (these sites are not maintained by kids.gov
   Item Elysium - Interact with Greek mythology. Meet the characters, read
                  the myths, see the art, and get hooked!
   Item Greatest Engineering Achievments of the 20th Century - How many of
      the 20th century's greatest engineering achievements will you use
      today? A car? Computer? Telephone? Explore our list of the top 20
    achievements, and learn how engineering shaped a century and changed
                                 the world.
   Item I Hear America Singing - Have you ever thought about how American
    songs developed? This PBS site has a timeline covering the history of
   American concert song as well as information on the writers, composers,
                artists, and movements that left their mark.
   Item Internet Public Library - A place where you can find all sorts of
   information on the history, government, presidents, people, and states
                           of the United States.
   Item Is the Past in your Future? - This site looks at the importance of
                   and careers in historical archaeology.
      Item The Face of Russia - Learn about Russian history and culture
    through an interactive timeline of Russian art. Site from PBS Online
           includes paintings, photographs, and Real Audio clips.

                              Commercial Sites
               (these sites are not maintained by kids.gov *)
   Item BJ Pinchbeck's Homework Helper - History - Site that contain many
         links to General, American, and Ancient History websites.
     Item Discovery School's A-to-Z History - Explore history - ancient,
               United States, and world - in A-to-Z History.
     Item Netstate.Com - This fun site has more than the symbols, flags,
      seals, emblems, and famous people of each state. Find interesting
    trivia, comparisons, and the 50 state designs for U.S. quarters too!
    Item Sinai - Explore this historic desert land that is Egypt's border
   with Israel. Meet the Bedouin inhabitants, tour amazing sites, dive its
    coral reefs, and discover why it is considered a holy and sacred land
                                for so many.
                               Separator image
    About this site - Sitemap - Contact Us - Kid's Privacy - Disclaimer -
                                 Link Policy
                               Separator image
