http://www4.sss.gov/qa.htm

   Skip to main Content
   Seal of the Selective Service System
   Registration Information About the Agency News and Public Affairs
   Publications History and Records What Happens in a Draft

   Fast Facts

Registration Information Banner

Frequently Asked Questions

   I registered already. How can I find out my Selective Service
   registration number?

   I registered two months ago and still haven't gotten a registration
   acknowledgment card. I also received a letter from Selective Service
   reminding me to register. What should I do?

   My son just turned 18 and will be attending the United States Naval
   Academy in the fall. He just received a registration reminder letter.
   Does he need to register?

   My son is an only son and the last male in our family to carry the
   family name.  Is he exempt from registration and the draft?

   Where do I send my registration form?

   What is Selective Service registration?

   Where can I get a Selective Service registration form?

   Why do we need Selective Service if there may never be a draft?

   How can I register?

   What is the penalty for not registering?

   I lost my registration acknowledgment card. How can I get another one?

   Why aren't women required to register?

   What if it's been more than 30 days after I've turned 18, and I still
   haven't registered?

   Why did I receive a registration reminder card at my home? How did
   Selective Service get my name?

   Are illegal alien males required to register?

   When was registration reinstated?

   What if I'm living or visiting out of the country when it's time to
   register?

   How can I find out if someone I know was ever drafted?

   What if I am over age 26 and haven't registered?

   If I am religiously or morally opposed to participating in war, must I
   still register?

   I am a clergyman with a recognized congregation. Am I exempt from
   registering?

   I am an amputee and obviously unfit for military service. Doesn't my
   condition exempt me from registering with Selective Service?

   I am a sole surviving son and the sole source of support for a totally
   disabled mother. I know I won't be able to serve but must I still
   register?

   Are disabled men, or men with medical conditions, required to register
   with Selective Service?

   What do I do if my name or date of birth on my Selective Service
   Acknowledgment card is incorrect?  How long will it take to correct
   this?

   Am I required to give my Social Security Number when I register with
   Selective Service?

   How does the Military Selective Service Act apply to individuals who
   have had a sex change?

   My last name is hyphenated.   Why isn't the hyphen printed on my
   acknowledgment card?
     __________________________________________________________________

   I registered already. How can I find out my Selective Service
   registration number?
   Call the Selective Service registration information line at
   1-847-688-6888.

   I registered two months ago and still haven't gotten a registration
   acknowledgment card. I also received a letter from Selective Service
   reminding me to register. What should I do?
   It may take as long as 90 days to process your registration. Please
   disregard all other reminders to register you may get from this Agency
   until that time. If, after 90 days you still haven't received a
   registration acknowledgment, call Selective Service at 1-847-688-6888
   and use the automated system to check to see if you're in our system.
   If you've already registered and you're in the system, please disregard
   all other reminders to register. If you're not in the system, please
   re-register.

   My son just turned 18 and will be attending the United States Naval
   Academy in the fall. He just received a registration reminder letter.
   Does he need to register?
   If a young man turns 18 at any time prior to actually attending one of
   the service academies (like the U.S. Naval Academy), he is required to
   register. If he turns 18 while attending, he does not have to register.
   If he leaves the Academy and active military duty prior to his 26th
   birthday, he will be required to register then.

   Where do I send my registration form?
   Send registration forms to: Selective Service System,
   P.O. Box 94739, Palatine, IL 60094-4638.

   What is Selective Service registration?
   Registration is a way our government keeps a list of names of men from
   which to draw in case of a national emergency requiring rapid expansion
   of our Armed Forces. By registering all young men, the Selective
   Service ensures that a future draft will be fair and equitable.

   Where can I get a Selective Service registration form?
   Forms are available at any U.S. post office. You can now register
   on-line.

   How can I register?
   Men 18 through 25 years old can register by completing a form at the
   post office. Some high schools have a faculty or staff member who
   serves as a Selective Service Registrar. Most men turning 18 can also
   register by mail, if they receive a Selective Service form in the mail.
   (See also How to Register.)

   Why do we need Selective Service if there may never be a draft?
   As President Clinton informed Congress in 1994, "Maintaining the
   Selective Service System and draft registration provides a hedge
   against unforeseen threats and a relatively low cost 'insurance policy'
   against our underestimating the maximum level of threat we expect our
   Armed Forces to face."
   (See also What Does Selective Service Provide for America?)

   What is the penalty for not registering?
   If you do not register, you could be prosecuted and fined up to
   $250,000 and/or be put in jail for up to five years. Registration is
   also a requirement to qualify for Federal student aid, job training
   benefits, and most Federal employment.
   (See also What Happens if I Don't Register?).

   I lost my registration acknowledgment card. How can I get another one?
   Copies of proof of registration may be obtained by calling the
   Selective Service at (847)688-6888. You may also obtain a copy by
   writing to: Selective Service System, P.O. Box 94638, Palatine,
   Illinois, 60094-4638. Make sure to provide your name, date of birth,
   Social Security Number, and current mailing address.

   What if it's been more than 30 days after I've turned 18 and I still
   haven't registered?
   Go to the post office and register immediately. Selective Service will
   accept a late registration.

   Why did I receive a registration reminder card at my home? How did
   Selective Service get my name?
   Selective Service got your name from one of the many lists used to
   identify people who may be eligible to register. It may have been a
   driver's license list from a state Department of Motor Vehicles, a list
   from a Federal or state agency such as the Department of Education, the
   Immigration and Naturalization Service, the Department of Labor's JTPA
   or Job Corps Program, the Department of Defense's recruiting list, or
   from a high school list.

   Are illegal alien males required to register?
   Yes. All immigrant alien males, other than those admitted on
   nonimmigrant visas, must register, whether or not they have a green
   card.
   (See also Who Must Register - Chart.)

   When was registration reinstated?
   President Jimmy Carter reinstated the Selective Service registration
   requirement in the summer of 1980.

   What if I'm a U.S. citizen living or visiting out of the U.S. when it's
   time to register?
   Visit the nearest U.S. Embassy or Consulate. They will help you
   register.

   How can I find out if someone I know was ever drafted?
   Call the Selective Service records division at (703)605-4047. Provide
   the person's full name, date of birth, and his address at the time of
   registration.
   (See also Records.)

   What if I am over age 26 and haven't registered?
   Once you reach age 26, it's too late to register. Even though you may
   not be prosecuted, you will be denied student financial assistance,
   Federal job training, and most Federal employment unless you can
   provide convincing evidence to the agency providing the benefit you are
   seeking, that your failure to register was not knowing and willful.
   (See also Men Over the Age of Eligibility to Register.)

   Virtually all men must register with Selective Service. The exceptions
   to this rule are very few and include: nonimmigrant aliens on student,
   visitor, tourist, or diplomatic visas; men on active duty in the U.S.
   Armed Forces; and cadets and midshipmen in the Service Academies and
   certain other U.S. military colleges. All other men must register upon
   reaching age 18 (or before age 26, if entering and taking up residence
   in the U.S. when already older than 18).
   Disabled men, clergymen, and men who believe themselves to be
   conscientiously opposed to war must register because there is no draft
   in effect, nor is there a program to classify men at this time. Should
   the Congress and the President reinstate a draft, a classification
   program would begin. Registrants would be examined to determine
   suitability for military service, and they would also have ample time
   to claim exemptions, deferments, or postponements. To be inducted, men
   would have to meet the physical, mental, and administrative standards
   established by the military services. Local Boards would meet in every
   American community to determine exemptions and deferments for
   clergymen, ministerial students, and men who file claims for
   reclassification as conscientious objectors.

   Are disabled men, or men with medical conditions, required to register
   with Selective Service?.  The only process now in effect is that men
   between the ages of 18 and 26 register with Selective Service and keep
   their registration record current during that period.  Neither the
   Military Selective Service Act nor the Presidential proclamation
   provide an exemption from registration because of a man's mental or
   physical condition unless Selective Service is provided with documented
   evidence that the man is hospitalized or institutionalized;   or
   home-bound and unable to function outside the home, with or without
   physical assistance;  or is in such a physical or mental condition that
   he would not comprehend the nature of his registration with the
   Selective Service System.  A determination is then made by Selective
   Service as to whether or not the man qualifies for exemption from
   registration.

   What do I do if my name or date of birth on my Selective Service
   Acknowledgment card is incorrect?   How long will it take to correct
   this?  If your name is misspelled, indicate what the correct name
   should be.  Sign and date the card, and return it to Selective
   Service.  If you have legally changed your name, indicate the new name,
   attach supporting documentation, sign and date the card, and return it
   to Selective Service.  If the month or day in your date of birth is
   listed incorrectly, indicate the correct date of birth, sign and date
   the card and return it to Selective Service.   If the year of birth is
   incorrect, indicate the correct year of birth, attach supporting
   documentation, sign and date the form, and return it to Selective
   Service.

   Corrections will take four to six weeks to process, after which you
   will be mailed a new acknowledgement card.

   Am I required to give my Social Security Number when I register with
   Selective Service?  If you have a Social Security number, you are
   required to provide it.  However, you are not required to have a Social
   Security number to register with Selective Service.

   How does the Military Selective Service Act apply to individuals who
   have had a sex change?   Individuals who are born female and have a sex
   change are not required to register. U.S. citizens or immigrants who
   are born male and have a sex change are still required to register. In
   the event of a resumption of the draft, males who have had a sex change
   can file a claim for an exemption from military service if they receive
   an order to report for examination or induction.

   My last name is hyphenated.  Why isn't the hyphen printed on my
   acknowledgment card?  Our computer system does not allow any
   punctuation in the name fields.  Any punctuation provided will be
   replaced with a space.

          FAQs | Contact SSS | Related Links | Check a Registration

                                  Red Line

     Home | Registration Info | About the Agency | News & Public Affairs
     Publications | History/Records | What Happens in a Draft | Site Map

                          Revised February 28, 2000
