http://nihlibrary.nih.gov/news/news.html

   O R S Logo and link N I H Library Title and link

                                           Site Map  Index  Online Catalog

                                             ______________________ Search

   Ask Us Live Button to get online chat help from a Library Staff member
   Menu button for About the Library Menu button for N I H Library
   Services Menu button for Electronic Resources Menu button for N I H
   Library Training Menu button for Internet Sites

   [news.gif] NEWS from the NIH Library

   TOP OF THE NEWS!

January 2002 News

     * Customized Literature Searching and Reference Management Services
       Available
     * Library to Open Earlier on Saturdays
     * NEW Titles Added to Online Journals Page
     * NEW Electronic Resources
     * Free Trial Subscription Currently Offered
     * Introducing Just-in-time Tutorials
     * Winter/Spring Seminars Include Instruction on Using PDAs
     * Past News Items...

Customized Literature Searching and Reference Management Services Available

   Does your department need help with extensive literature searching for
   special projects? NIH librarians are available to work directly with
   your group to provide consultation on choosing appropriate database
   resources, developing search strategies, as well as providing in-depth,
   quality-filtered search results. Librarians can also download search
   results into databases using a reference management package such as
   EndNote or Reference Manager. These reference databases can be shared
   by your departmenteliminating redundant resources that may be scattered
   throughout your departmentsaving your work group time and money. As a
   part of this service, librarians will also offer training on how to use
   reference management software.

   To view a sample database of citations that was developed for the
   Office of Medical Applications of Research (OMAR), go to
   http://odp.od.nih.gov/consensus/cons/103/103_intro.htm and look at
   "List of Publications Related to this Consensus Conference."

   The NIH Library now offers this and other custom services as fee-based
   services. For detailed descriptions of Custom Library Services, go to
   http://nihlibrary.nih.gov/about/customlibraryservices.htm.

   For more information on these fee-based services, or to arrange a free
   consultation, contact Susan Whitmore at 301-496-1157, or by email at
   sw112h@nih.gov.

Library to Open Earlier on Saturdays

   In response to user requests, the NIH Library will open two hours
   earlier on Saturdays. Effective January 2, the Librarys hours are:

     * Monday Thursday.7:45 a.m. - 8:00 p.m.
     * Friday.....................7:45 a.m. - 6:00 p.m.
     * Saturday................10:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m
     * Sunday.............1:00 p.m. - 5:00 p.m.

NEW Titles Added to Online Journals Page

   Psychosomatic Medicine, with electronic access back to 1999, is the
   latest title added to the Online Journals page.

NEW Electronic Resources

   Health and Psychosocial Instruments (HAPI), via Ovid, provides access
   to information on measurement instruments in the health fields,
   psychosocial sciences, and organizational behavior. Questionnaires,
   interview schedules, checklists, index measures, coding
   schemes/manuals, rating scales, projective techniques,
   vignettes/scenarios, and tests within the database will be useful when
   identifying measures needed for research studies, grant proposals,
   client/patient assessment, and program evaluation. Access this new
   addition through the Databases page.

Free Trial Subscription Currently Offered

   Faculty of 1000 is a new online research tool highlighting the most
   interesting papers in biology, based on the recommendations of over
   1000 leading scientists. The NIH Library is considering a subscription
   to this database and welcomes your feedback. To access Faculty of 1000,
   go to the Databases page.

Introducing Just-in-time Tutorials

   The NIH Library is pleased to introduce a series of animated tutorials
   that walk you through the complex features of a particular program or
   resource. Recently addedEndNote, a reference management program. Other
   topics include Reference Manager, How to Order Documents on PubMed, How
   to Search the NIH Library Catalog, Cited Reference Searching, and more.
   Heres what some NIH researchers have said after viewing a tutorial:

   Really helpfulclear and not too time consuming.

   The tutorial was very well presented and extremely informative in terms
   of covering the basicsI look forward to using this tool as part of my
   research.

   So helpful and clear! I spent just 10 minutes and Im able to use
   Reference Manager easily!

   To view a tutorial, go to the NIH Librarys Training Catalog at
   http://nihlibrary.nih.gov/training.htm.

Winter/Spring Seminars Include Instruction on Using PDAs

   Library trainers are offering a new series of seminars that can help
   enhance your research skills. All seminars will be held in the NIH
   Library Training Room, Building 10, lower level. No reservations are
   necessary. Listed below are four new seminars that will be offered in
   addition to classes such as PubMed and Web of Science. To read the
   complete list of Winter/Spring seminars, look at the Training Catalog.
   For more information about training, call 301-496-2184.

   PDAs: An Introduction
   Learn the basic capabilities of a PDA (Personal Digital Assistant,
   e.g., Palm, Visor). This seminar demonstrates features and functions of
   these popular electronic devices. After attending this seminar, you
   will be ready for the advanced session on using a PDA for
   health-related information. Bring your PDA for hands-on practice or
   just observe the demonstration to become better informed.

   PDAs: Advanced Applications for Clinical Use
   Intended for NIH staff that have completed the PDAs: An Introduction
   class or have experience using PDAs. This class will show how to add
   health-related applications from the Web to the device. Attendees will
   learn how to use mobileMICROMEDEX, ePocrates and other medical
   resources. Bring your PDA or just watch.

   Nursing Resources
   Seminar participants will learn, hands-on, how to find nursing
   information for patient care and research. Coverage includes accessing
   online journals and books, ordering articles, and searching databases
   and other resources. Emphasis will be on techniques for searching
   CINAHL - the Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature
   database.

   Clinical Trials on the Web
   Theres a lot of information about clinical trials on the Web. How do
   you find it? Where do you begin? In this seminar you will learn
   techniques for retrieving clinical trials information in your subject
   area. Librarians will guide you through the steps of using
   ClinicalTrials.gov and show you how to search databases such as MEDLINE
   and the Cochrane Library for clinical trials.

                       Comments to NIHLibrary@nih.gov

    News | NIH Library | O R S | N I H | Disclaimer | Accessibility
