http://www.sustainable.doe.gov/business/buintro.shtml


                          EREN Department of Energy
   Text Only | Español
   Center of Excellence for Sustainable Development
   Welcome Contact Us Site Index Newsletter


   Sustainable Business
   Introduction
   Key Principles
   Industrial Ecology
   Assistance Programs
   Tools
   Success Stories
   Codes / Ordinances
   Articles / Publications
   Educational Materials
   Other Resources
   Sustainable Business Introduction


   Also visit U.S. DOE's Office of Industrial Technologies. [cube3.jpg]

   It is increasingly evident that business and industry’s current
   patterns of consumption and production are not sustainable. The
   enormous economic and population growth worldwide over the last four
   decades have together driven the impacts that threaten the health and
   well-being of our communities and nations -- ozone depletion, climate
   change, depletion and fouling of natural resources, and extensive loss
   of biodiversity and habitat.

   The standard approach in the past to the environmental problems
   generated by business and industry have been regulatory driven
   "end-of-the-pipe" environmental remediation efforts. This approach has
   created limited success in the last twenty years, but as economic
   development continues and grows in intensity, new and complex problems
   abound.

   Leaders in business, government, academia, public-interest
   organizations, and communities are responding with innovative new
   solutions to sustainability issues in business and industry. Companies
   like Interface, Inc. are progressing beyond simple regulatory
   compliance in favor of more proactive, leadership roles in finding
   solutions to sustainability issues.

   The Department of Energy is supporting such innovation through programs
   like National Industrial Competitiveness Through Energy, Environment,
   and Economics (NICE3), which offers grants to develop technologies that
   can help companies cut costs, prevent pollution, and conserve energy.
   Additionally, non-profits such as The Natural Step and the Rocky
   Mountain Institute are helping firms chart a course and make strides
   toward sustainability.

   Perhaps the single most influential factor that is beginning to emerge
   among business and industry is the realization that waste reduction,
   energy efficiency, and pollution prevention make economic sense.
   Companies are starting to understand that sustainability involves
   substantially more than an ethical consideration -- it affects the
   bottom line and is an integral part of good business. See "The
   Corporate Environmental Dilemma: Lead or Look On."

   The links and resources compiled in the Sustainable Business and
   Industry section will help your company and community understand the
   great challenges and promising solutions for business and industry in
   achieving sustainability.

   Links

   Sustainable Business.com
   Serves as a focal point on the web for the full range of environmental
   business sectors, from recycling to green building, from renewable
   energy to organic products, from social investing to certified
   forestry. Read the "Sustainable Business Insider" magazine, post
   Business Opportunities, find a Green Dream Job, use the comprehensive
   Library.

   GreenBiz.com
   An online resource center on business, the environment and the bottom
   line. The site features current news, green job listings, a business
   toolbox, calendar of events, and extensive references on business and
   the environment.

   Sustainable Business Network
   Promotes the growth and development of environmentally and socially
   responsible businesses, providing the tools and information necessary
   to make sustainable business a prominent global economic force.

   Publications

   Business and the Environment
   Monthly newsletter on environmental management techniques and
   strategies, by subscription. Current issue contents online.

   Environmental Business Journal
   Monthly newsletter available from Environmental Business International,
   Inc. Sample contents may be viewed online.

   The Greening of Industry Resource Guide and Bibliography, Island Press
   , 1996. ISBN 1-55963-397-2

   The Ecology of Commerce, HarperBusiness, 1993. ISBN 0-88730-704-3
   Back to Top



                            HOME | EREN | SEARCH
