http://response.restoration.noaa.gov/spotlight/spotlight.html

   Jump to Page Content

   NOAA OR&R Home / Oil Spill Aids / The Exxon Valdez Oil Spill

   The Exxon Valdez Oil Spill

   Home Page

   Site Index

   About Us

   Oil Spill Aids

   Chemical Aids

   Coastal Chemicals

   For Kids

   Image Gallery

   Available Products

   Site Search

   On March 24, 1989, the Exxon Valdez grounded on Bligh Reef, and spilled
   nearly 11 million gallons of oil into the biologically rich waters of
   Prince William Sound. NOAA scientists and spill response experts helped
   to respond to this spill, and NOAA biologists have been monitoring the
   long-term effects of the spill and cleanup efforts. Here are some of
   their reports, along with links to more information elsewhere.

About the Exxon Valdez Spill

     * Summary Points: 10 Years of Intertidal Monitoring After the Exxon
       Valdez Spill A short summary of the main findings of NOAA
       biologists studying the effects of the Exxon Valdez oil spill on
       intertidal shorelines in Prince William Sound.
     * Prince William Sound: Ecosystem in Transition How did the Exxon
       Valdez oil spill, and the response to the spill, affect living
       organisms and their habitats? All the facts aren't yet in, but here
       are some 1997 results and assessments from NOAA OR&R biologists
       conducting long-term monitoring.
     * Prince William Sound: Our Changing Perspective on Recovery A 1999
       update from NOAA biologists studying the effects of the Exxon
       Valdez oil spill on the biological communities of Prince William
       Sound.
     * Exxon Valdez Photos Here's a collection of photographs of the
       spill, taken by our staff scientists and response experts.
     * Mearns Rock It isn't easy to determine whether a particular area of
       shoreline has recovered from oiling during an spill, or how to
       expect it to look when it has. This sequence of photos of the same
       oiled rock, taken once each year for the past 9 years, is hard to
       interpret. Have the plants and animals living on and around this
       rock recovered from the Exxon Valdez spill? (Hint: There's not
       necessarily a right answer to this question.)
     * Oil Trajectory Prediction We use computer models to predict how
       spilled oil will move and spread across the water surface over
       time. Here's the trajectory our models predicted for the oil
       spilled from the Exxon Valdez.
     * Our Role in the Response Here's how we've helped out in the
       response to this spill and in monitoring its effects.
     * Exxon Valdez Resources Library Here are reports offering more
       details about our monitoring program, and a list of NOAA's
       publications on the recovery of Prince William Sound from the Exxon
       Valdez oil spill.

Related Information and Tools

     * Guided Tours Learn how NOAA OR&R scientists and other experts
       respond to oil spills and chemical accidents, through these guided
       tours at NOAA's National Ocean Service website.
     * GNOME and the Prince William Sound Location File Use GNOME to
       predict the trajectory of oil spilled into Prince William Sound (or
       other important marine ecosystems).
     * Environmental Sensitivity Index Atlases To decide which areas in
       Prince William Sound were most important to protect and eventually
       to clean up, responders used our Environmental Sensitivity Index
       maps of the region. You can obtain paper ESI maps or an electronic
       ESI atlas for Prince William Sound.
     * ADIOS2 Use ADIOS2 to predict how an oil slick in Prince William
       Sound would weather (change its properties) over time.
     * Spill Tools Use Spill Tools to predict the effectiveness of common
       response measures to a spill like the Exxon Valdez.

Other Web Sites

     * Exxon Valdez Oil Spill Trustee Council Information about the spill,
       its impacts, and restoration and research efforts.
     * Exxon Valdez Historical Information The Trustee Council's answers
       to common questions about the spill, with links to more information
       for students and other researchers.

   Revised: November 7, 2001
   Office of Response and Restoration, National Ocean Service, National
   Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
   orr.webmaster@noaa.gov
