http://www.calstrs.ca.gov/invest/FinLevAmend.pdf

   January 18, 2002 TO: ALL INTERESTED PARTIES FROM: CALIFORNIA STATE
   TEACHERS' RETIREMENT SYSTEM SUBJECT: AMENDED REQUEST FOR INFORMATION
   FOR PORTFOLIO LEVERAGE STRATEGIES AND IMPLEMENTATION The California
   State Teachers' Retirement System (CalSTRS) is soliciting information
   from qualified firms regarding real estate portfolio leverage and a
   possible advisory role related to debt management. Attached for your
   consideration is an amended Request For Information (RFI). The
   amendments are found in the Minimum Qualifications section of the RFI
   and have been underlined or crossed out to clarify the changes. Should
   you have any questions or comments regarding this process, please
   contact Laura Caravello, Associate Investment Officer, by email
   (lcaravello@calstrs.ca.gov) or by phone (916) 229-3652. Sincerely,
   Michael Thompson Investment Officer III California State Teachers'
   Retirement System, Investment Division, MS 04 7667 Folsom Boulevard,
   Suite 250, Sacramento, CA 95826 (916) 229-3652,
   lcaravello@calstrs.ca.gov CalSTRS Request for Information Portfolio
   Leverage Background The California State Teachers' Retirement System
   (CalSTRS) has a real estate portfolio comprised of 128 separate
   properties with a total market value of approximately $5 billion. The
   portfolio includes primarily office, industrial, retail and
   multi-family properties. A small number of these properties are
   encumbered with debt, but most are owned free of debt. CalSTRS is
   considering applying a limited amount of leverage to part of its
   portfolio. CalSTRS' goal is to determine whether it would be
   advantageous to apply leverage at this time, and to determine the most
   efficiently priced and effective mechanism for this leverage. CalSTRS
   also seeks to maintain the fullest degree of flexibility in managing
   its portfolio. As a result, the selection of an ongoing debt advisor is
   another issue under consideration. The real estate investment staff at
   CalSTRS will use the information gathered from this RFI to develop
   leveraging strategies and determine an implementation plan. The staff
   is interested in the relative merits and issues regarding the use of
   leverage at this time, as well as the advantages and disadvantages of
   different leverage strategies and mechanisms. Firms with extensive
   experience in executing leverage transactions for large, diversified
   real estate portfolios will be preferred. After reviewing all submitted
   information, staff with assistance from Pension Consulting Alliance,
   Inc. (PCA) its real estate consultant will contact the most qualified
   firms for further discussion. I. MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS A. Must qualify
   as a fiduciary and/or demonstrate experience executing large debt
   transactions for diversified portfolios of real estate investments. B.
   Minimum of 5 years of experience in underwriting, structuring and
   placement or distribution of real estate loans for public as well as
   private debt securities. C. Must have completed successful executions
   as principal or acting in a fiduciary capacity for the principal (i.e.,
   agent), of rated and unrated real estate debt financings in amounts in
   excess of $250 million. per transaction. D. Must have demonstrable
   capabilities and experience in mortgage loan origination and due
   diligence for large, multi-property portfolios throughout the United
   States. E. Must have or be qualified to readily obtain all necessary
   licenses required by state and federal law to perform the services as
   set forth in your recommendations in response to the RFI. for real
   estate lending for public as well as private securities distribution.
   F. No historic or current material litigation. G. Demonstrated ability
   to execute on a timely basis under varying real estate and debt market
   conditions. H. The key professionals and/or the organization must not
   have, nor could they potentially have, a material conflict of interest
   with CalSTRS. I. Must have the ability to provide loan advisory
   services to CalSTRS on an ongoing basis regarding strategy, loan
   servicing and compliance. II. FIRM HISTORY Please provide a brief
   history of your firm. In addition, please provide a narrative summary
   of all transactions executed by your firm that involve a debt financing
   of a real estate operating company or portfolio aggregating more than
   $100 million, including brief descriptions of the real properties
   involved, loan to value ratios, the dates of the individual
   transactions and the specific terms of the indebtedness including rate,
   maturity, amortization schedule, and liens. III. LEVERAGE STRATEGY
   CalSTRS intends to consider a wide range of leveraging strategies and
   mechanisms that might be utilized within its portfolio. CalSTRS'
   primary goals are to determine whether the current market environment
   is favorable for leveraging and to raise the specified amount of
   proceeds on the most favorable terms that can be obtained. Portfolio
   management flexibility as well as ease and timeliness of execution is
   also essential. A. Transaction Structure and Markets 1. Given current
   market conditions, is this a relatively attractive time for CalSTRS to
   execute a leveraging transaction? What specific measurements can be
   applied to judge the quality of market conditions for a proposed
   leveraging transaction? 2 2. Compare and contrast the advantages and
   disadvantages of executing a leveraging transaction for CalSTRS in
   private markets or public markets at this time, and in general. 3.
   Provide a succinct analysis of the factors, including cost benefit,
   that should be considered by CalSTRS in determining whether a
   leveraging transaction would be best accomplished on a recourse or
   non-recourse basis or on a secured or general credit basis. Please
   note, CalSTRS' policy does not permit guarantees beyond the subject
   real estate. 4. What are the factors that CalSTRS should consider in
   determining whether to execute a transaction as a private placement
   through a broker or directly with a principal lender. How will the
   answer to this question change depending on the nature of the proposed
   transaction? 5. Are there benefits to having a leverage transaction
   rated by nationally recognized credit rating agencies? With which
   agencies are you familiar? How will a ratings process extend the time
   necessary to execute a transaction? What are the costs and steps
   involved in a rated transaction? 6. What proprietary or commercially
   available software does your firm use to underwrite a leverage
   transaction involving a multi-property portfolio? Does your firm have
   an approved or active shelf registration statement that could be
   utilized for distribution in a transaction on behalf of CalSTRS? 7. If
   CalSTRS decides on a leverage transaction, what criteria should be
   employed to determine which properties would be used as the collateral
   for the transaction? What limitations would be imposed on CalSTRS'
   flexibility to manage its portfolio by such a transaction, and how can
   the impact of those limitations be mitigated? 8. Describe all previous
   similar structured leverage transactions your firm has participated in,
   with emphasis on the role your firm fulfilled, either as principal or
   agent. What is the total dollar amount of similar transactions you have
   executed as principals? 9. To the extent that your firm has
   participated in underwriting commercial mortgage-backed securities,
   list the transactions, the continuing research support your firm has
   provided for these transactions, the trading history subsequent to
   issuance of the securities and a deal-by-deal default and loss-
   severity statistics. 10. Given all of the factors described above and
   below, what transaction structure do you believe is best suited to
   accomplish the goals of CalSTRS? 3 B. Financial Terms 1. Describe the
   range of debt maturities that may be available to CalSTRS, and the
   advantages and disadvantages of each. 2. Describe the range of interest
   rates that CalSTRS could anticipate having to pay (on an "all-in" cost
   basis) depending on whether CalSTRS determines to assume fixed rate,
   variable rate or floating rate liabilities. Which rate structure do you
   recommend, and why? 3. Do you recommend an amortizing structure or an
   interest-only structure? What are the benefits and disadvantages of
   each? 4. What is the cost-benefit analysis for CalSTRS of a structure
   that prohibits debt prepayment compared to one that permits debt
   prepayment? Are there any potential mechanisms for loan extensions? 5.
   What limitations or covenants can CalSTRS reasonably expect to have to
   accept in order to obtain the financing? 6. If CalSTRS were to consider
   a special purpose vehicle to incur the indebtedness, what level of
   loan-to-value would you recommend and why? 7. Is UBIT an issue in the
   proposed strategy? If so, why and what is your recommendation to
   mitigate the UBIT risk? C. Execution 1. What is the approximate time
   required to complete a leverage transaction? Provide a detailed pro
   forma timetable for each transaction structure you recommend. 2.
   Provide a detailed list of out-of-pocket expenses that would be
   incurred by CalSTRS in a proposed transaction. 3. What is the standard
   or benchmark that CalSTRS should use to determine whether the proposed
   execution is on terms that are optimal given market conditions? IV.
   MANAGEMENT TEAM A. List the individuals in your firm that would be
   involved in a proposed leverage transaction for CalSTRS, the role each
   individual would fulfill, and the 4 percentage of time each person
   would devote to the CalSTRS transaction both for the initial execution
   and in an ongoing debt management role. Include resumes for each. B.
   Briefly describe how your firm is uniquely qualified to achieve
   CalSTRS' objectives in a leverage transaction. C. If your firm is
   selected to work on the proposed transaction with CalSTRS, would your
   firm be able to execute the transaction entirely on its own or would it
   have to engage an outside party? V. TRACK RECORD Provide a summary of
   recent debt transactions completed by your firm that would be
   considered comparable to the recommended transaction. VI. ALIGNMENT OF
   INTEREST AND FEE STRUCTURE A. Describe the fee structure you propose
   for any transaction you believe CalSTRS ought to consider, and explain
   how that fee structure will align your interests with CalSTRS'
   interests. B. Display the fee structure for the execution and loan
   compliance functions as separate and in total. Is there a benefit to
   engaging one firm to provide service for both execution and debt
   advisory issues? If so, explain. VII. REFERENCES List five references
   that have utilized your services in transactions comparable in
   structure and size to those you believe CalSTRS should consider. For
   each reference, list the organization name, contact person and title,
   address, phone number, email address, type of relationship and nature
   of relationship, including descriptions of all transactions executed
   with that reference. At least two references should be from
   institutional borrowers in a structured leverage finance transaction
   involving primarily real estate collateral. 5 VIII. PROPOSAL SUBMISSION
   INFORMATION Submit two (2) copies of your proposal to each of the
   following: Laura Caravello Associate Investment Officer, Real Estate
   California State Teachers' Retirement System, Investment Division, MS
   04 7667 Folsom Boulevard, Suite 250 Sacramento, CA 95826 Marcus Steele
   Principal Pension Consulting Alliance 514 NW 11th Avenue, Suite 203
   Portland, OR 97209 IX. OTHER INFORMATION Real Estate policy and
   specific property information is available upon request. Please use
   contact contained in the cover letter for requesting this information.
   6
