http://www.bfrl.nist.gov/866/fmabbs.html

   . . . . . . . . . . .
   Fire Research . Link to NIST .
   .
   Link to Home Link to Research Areas Link to BFRL Publications Link to
   BFRL Software Link to BFRL Staff Information Link to Contact
   Information Link to Ask the Experts Section .

Fire Research Division

                             Fire Modeling Programs
       _______________________________________________________________

     These fire simulation programs were developed or sponsored by the
     Building and Fire Research Laboratory. These programs (except for
     Jet) run in a DOS environment. The available program are:


     * ALOFT-FT^TM - A Large Outdoor Fire plume Trajectory model - Flat
       Terrain
     * ASCOS - Analysis of Smoke Control Systems
     * ASET-B - Available Safe Egree Time - BASIC
     * ASMET - Atria Smoke Management Engineering Tools
     * BREAK1 - Berkeley Algorithm for Breaking Window Glass in a
       Compartment Fire
     * CCFM - Consolidated Compartment Fire Model version VENTS
     * CFAST - Consolidated Fire and Smoke Transport Model
     * DETACT-QS - Detector Actuation - Quasi Steady
     * DETACT-T2 - Detector Actuation - Time squared
     * ELVAC - Elevator Evacuation
     * FASTLite - A collection of procedures which builds on the core
       routines of FIREFORM and the computer model CFAST to provide
       engineering calculations of various fire phenomena,
     * FIRDEMND - Handheld Hosestream Suppression Model
     * FIRST - FIRe Simulation Technique
     * FPETool - Fire Protection Engineering Tools (equations and fire
       simulation scenarios)
     * Jet - A Model for the Prediction of Detector Activation and Gas
       Temperature in the Presence of a Smoke Layer
     * LAVENT - Response of sprinkler links in compartment fires with
       curtains and ceiling vents
     * whats new NIST Fire Dynamics Simulator and Smokeview - The NIST
       Fire Dynamics Simulator predicts smoke and/or air flow movement
       caused by fire, wind, ventilation systems etc. Smokeview visualizes
       the predictions generated by NIST FDS.

     In order to obtain one of the programs, click on the appropriate
     name. The zip file contains the source for the model, an executable
     for those computers which do not have a FORTRAN compiler, and test
     cases and documentation.



     * ALOFT-FT^TM (A Large Outdoor Fire plume Trajectory model - Flat
       Terrain) is a computer based model to predict the downwind
       distribution of smoke particulate and combustion products from
       large outdoor fires. It solves the fundamental fluid dynamic
       equations for the smoke plume and its surroundings with flat
       terrain. The program contains a graphical user interface for input
       and output and a user modifiable database of fuel and smoke
       emission parameters. The output can be displayed as downwind,
       crosswind and vertical smoke concentration contours. Information on
       using the program is available with on-line help commands in the
       program. ALOFT-FT was written by W.D. Walton and K.B. Mcgrattan.

     * ASCOS (Analysis of Smoke Control Systems) is a program for steady
       air flow analysis of smoke control systems. This program can
       analyze any smoke control system that produces pressure differences
       with the intent of limiting smoke movement in building fire
       situations. The program is also capable of modeling the stack
       effect created in taller buildings during extreme temperature
       conditions. The program input consists of the outside and building
       temperatures, a description of the building flow network and the
       flows produced by the ventilation or smoke control system. The
       output consists of the steady state pressures and flows throughout
       the building. ASCOS was written in FORTRAN by J.H. Klote. Another
       newer program, CONTAM, may be more appropriate to some applications
       than ASCOS. It is maintained and updated frequently by Mr. George
       N. Walton (telephone: (1) + 301-975-6421 or e-mail:
       george.walton@nist.gov ).
     * ASET-B (Available Safe Egress Time - BASIC) is a program for
       calculating the temperature and position of the hot smoke layer in
       a single room with closed doors and windows. ASET-B is a compact
       easy to run program which solves the same equations as ASET. The
       required program inputs are a heat loss fraction, the height of the
       fire, the room ceiling height, the room floor area, the maximum
       time for the simulation, and the rate of heat release of the fire.
       The program outputs are the temperature and thickness of the hot
       smoke layer as a function of time. ASET-B was written in BASIC by
       W.D. Walton.
     * ASMET (Atria Smoke Management Engineering Tools) consists of a set
       of equations and a zone fire model for analysis of smoke management
       systems for large spaces such as atria, shopping malls, arcades,
       sports arenas, exhibition halls and airplane hangers. ASMET is
       written in C++ language. For program documentation and a
       description of the input data, the user should refer to NISTIR
       5516, Klote, J. H., Method of Predicting Smoke Movement in Atria
       with Application to Smoke Management, NIST.
     * BREAK1 (Berkeley Algorithm for Breaking Window Glass in a
       Compartment Fire) is a program which calculates the temperature
       history of a glass window exposed to user described fire
       conditions. The calculations are stopped when the glass breaks. The
       inputs required are the glass thermal conductivity, thermal
       diffusivity, absorption length, breaking stress, Young's modulus,
       thermal coefficient of linear expansion, thickness, emissivity,
       shading thickness, half-width of window, the ambient temperature,
       numerical parameters and the time histories of flame radiation from
       the fire, hot layer temperature and emissivity, and heat transfer
       coefficients. The outputs are temperature history of the glass
       normal to the glass surface, and the window breakage time. BREAK1
       was written in FORTRAN by A.A. Joshi and P.J. Pagni, Department of
       Mechanical Engineering, University of California at Berkeley
       supported by a grant from the National Institute of Standards and
       Technology.
     * CCFM (Consolidated Compartment Fire Model version VENTS) is a
       two-layer zone-type compartment fire model computer code. It
       simulates conditions due to user-specified fires in a multi-room,
       multi-level facility. The required inputs are a description of room
       geometry and vent characteristics (up to 9 rooms, 20 vents),
       initial state of the inside and outside environment, and fire
       energy release rates as a functions of time (up to 20 fires). If
       simulation of concentrations of products of combustion is desired,
       then product release rates must also be specified (up to three
       products). Vents can be simple openings between adjacent spaces
       (natural vents) or fan/duct forced ventilation systems between
       arbitrary pairs of spaces (forced vents). For forced vents, flow
       rates and direction can be user-specified or included in the
       simulation by accounting for user-specified fan and duct
       characteristics. Wind and stack effects can be taken into account.
       The program outputs for each room are pressure at the floor, layer
       interface height, upper/lower layer temperature and (optionally)
       product concentrations. CCFM (version VENTS) is supported by
       four-part documentation: Part I - Physical Basis, L.Y. Cooper and
       G.P. Forney; Part II - Software Reference Guide, G.P. Forney and
       L.Y. Cooper; Part III - Catalog of Algorithms and Subroutines, L.Y.
       Cooper and G.P. Forney, Eds.; and Part IV - User Reference Guide,
       G.P. Forney, L.Y. Cooper, and W.F. Moss. CCFM (version VENTS) was
       written in FORTRAN by G.P. Forney and L.Y. Cooper.
       CCFMPLT is a graphics program which runs in conjunction with CCFM.
       The results from CCFM are sent to a user specified data file at
       each prescribed time step. CCFMPLT plots this data on an IBM-PC
       compatible microcomputer and can optionally provide hardcopy
       output. CCFMPLT was written in FORTRAN by G.P. Forney.
     * CFAST is a zone model that predicts the effect of a specified fire
       on temperatures, various gas concentrations and smoke layer heights
       in a multi-compartment structure.
     * DETACT-QS (DETector ACTuation - Quasi Steady) is a program for
       calculating the actuation time of thermal devices below unconfined
       ceilings. It can be used to predict the actuation time of fixed
       temperature heat detectors and sprinkler heads subject to a user
       specified fire. DETACT-QS assumes that the thermal device is
       located in a relatively large area, that is only the fire ceiling
       flow heats the device and there is no heating from the accumulated
       hot gases in the room. The required program inputs are the height
       of the ceiling above the fuel, the distance of the thermal device
       from the axis of the fire, the actuation temperature of the thermal
       device, the response time index (RTI) for the device, and the rate
       of heat release of the fire. The program outputs are the ceiling
       gas temperature and the device temperature both as a function of
       time and the time required for device actuation. DETACT-QS was
       written in BASIC by D.D. Evans.
       DETACT-T2 (DETector ACTuation - Time squared) is a program for
       calculating the actuation time of thermal devices below unconfined
       ceilings. It can be used to predict the actuation time of fixed
       temperature and rate of rise heat detectors, and sprinkler heads
       subject to a user specified fire which grows as the square of time.
       CT-T2 assumes that the thermal device is located in a relatively
       large area, that is only the fire ceiling flow heats the device and
       there is no heating from the accumulated hot gases in the room. The
       required program inputs are the ambient temperature, the response
       time index (RTI) for the device, the activation and rate of rise
       temperatures of the device, height of the ceiling above the fuel,
       the device spacing and the fire growth rate. The program outputs
       are the time to device activation and the heat release rate at
       activation. DETACT-T2 was written in BASIC and FORTRAN by D.W.
       Stroup.
     * ELVAC (Elevator Evacuation) is an interactive computer program that
       estimates the time required to evacuate people from a building with
       the use of elevators and stairs. It is cautioned that elevators
       generally are not intended as a means of fire evacuation, and they
       should not be used during fires. However, it is possible to design
       elevator systems that for fire emergencies, and ELVAC can be used
       to evaluate the potential performance of such systems. ELVAC
       calculates the evacuation time for one group of elevators. If a
       building has more than one group of elevators, ELVAC can be run on
       each group separately. Input consists of floor to floor heights,
       number of people on floors, number of elevators in the group,
       elevator speed, elevator acceleration, elevator capacity, elevator
       door type and width, and various inefficiency factors. The output
       is a table of elevator travel time, round trip time, people moved,
       and number of round trips for each floor plus the total evacuation
       time. ELVAC was written in compiled BASIC by John H. Klote and
       Daniel M. Alvord.
     * FASTLite is a user friendly software package which builds on the
       core routines of FPEtool and the computer model CFAST to provide
       calculations of fire phenomena for use by the building designer,
       code official, fire protection engineer, and fire-safety related
       practitioner.
     * FIRDEMND simulates the suppression of post flashover charring and
       non-charring solid-fuel fires in compartments using water sprays
       from portable hose-nozzle equipment used by the fire departments.
       The output of the Fire Demand Model (FDM) shows the extinguishing
       effects of water spray at various flow rates and droplet sizes. The
       calculations are based on a heat and mass balance accounting for
       gas and surface cooling, steam-induced smothering, water-spray
       induced air entrainment, direct extinguishment of the fire by water
       and the energy transport via inflow and outflow of heat and
       products of combustion. This model can be complicated, but it is
       very powerful.
     * FIRST (FIRe Simulation Technique) is the direct descendant of the
       HARVARD V program developed by Howard Emmons and Henri Mitler. The
       fire may be entered either as a user-specified time-dependent mass
       loss rate or in terms of fundamental properties of the fuel. In the
       latter case, the program will predict the fire growth rate by
       considering the changing oxygen concentration and smoke layer
       conditions in the room of fire origin. It can also predict the
       heating and possible ignition of up to three targets. The original
       fire and targets may also be user specified fires. The required
       program inputs are the geometrical data describing the rooms and
       openings, and the thermophysical properties of the ceiling, walls,
       burning fuel, and targets. The generation rate of soot must be
       specified, and the generation rates of other species may be
       specified as a yield of the pyrolysis rate. Among the program
       outputs are the temperature and thickness of, and species
       concentrations in, the hot upper layer and also in the cooler,
       lower layer in each compartment. Also given are wall surface
       temperatures, heat transfer rates and mass flow rates. The FIRST
       program was written in FORTRAN and is maintained by H. Mitler.
       MASBANK is used to create and maintain a data base of materials and
       their fire properties for use by the FIRST program. MASBANK can
       accommodate 20 properties for up to 50 materials. The program has
       the capability to add, delete, change, alphabetize and view the
       material properties in the data bank. Material properties from
       MASBANK may be transferred directly into the FIRST program. MASBANK
       is written in FORTRAN.
     * FPETool is a set of engineering equations useful in estimating
       potential fire hazard and the response of the space and fire
       protection systems to the developing hazard. Version 3.2
       incorporates an estimate of smoke conditions developing within a
       room receiving steady-state smoke leakage from an adjacent space.
       Estimates of human viability resulting from exposure to developing
       conditions within the room are calculated based upon the smoke
       temperature and toxicity. Documentation in PDF format is available.
       This version of FPETool was written by S. Deal.
     * LAVENT is a program developed to simulate the environment and the
       response of sprinkler links in compartment fires with draft
       curtains and fusible link operated ceiling vents. The model, used
       to calculate the heating of the fusible links, includes the effects
       of the ceiling jet and the upper layer of hot gases beneath the
       ceiling. The required program inputs are the geometrical data
       describing the compartment, the thermophysical properties of the
       ceiling, the fire elevation, the time dependent energy release rate
       of the fire, the fire diameter or energy release rate per area of
       the fire, the ceiling vent area, the fusible link
       response-time-index (RTI) and fuse temperature, the fusible link
       positions along the ceiling, the link assignment to each ceiling
       vent, and the ambient temperature. A maximum of five ceiling vents
       and ten fusible links are permitted in the compartment. The program
       outputs are the temperature, mass and height of the hot upper
       layer, the temperature of each link, the ceiling jet temperature
       and velocity at each link, the radial temperature distribution
       along the interior surface of the ceiling, the radial distribution
       of the heat flux to the interior and exterior surfaces of the
       ceiling, the fuse time of each link, and the vent area that has
       been opened. LAVENT is supported by two-part documentation which
       includes: Part I - Theory, L.Y. Cooper; and Part II - User Guide,
       W.D. Davis and L.Y. Cooper. LAVENT was written in FORTRAN by W.D.
       Davis and L.Y. Cooper.
       GRAPH is a graphics program which runs in conjunction with LAVENT.
       The results for LAVENT are sent to the data file, GRAPH.OUT, after
       each prescribed time step. GRAPH then allows the user to choose two
       sets of variables to be plotted on the screen and has the
       additional capability of hardcopy output. GRAPH was written in
       FORTRAN by W.D. Davis.



                                Graphic Rule

     Privacy Statement/Security Notice  |  Disclaimer  |  FOIA

   Technical Website Questions: bfrlwebmaster@nist.gov

   NIST is an agency of the U.S. Commerce Department's Technology
   Administration.

   Link to NIST Centennial Site
                                                                 BFRL Logo

                           Date created: 3/12/2001
                           Last updated: 3/12/2001
