http://www.cityofhouston.gov/citydesk/housingassist.html

   City of Houston

   Home

       Services

               About Houston

                            Mayor's Office

                                          Elected Officials

                                                           City Desk

   City Desk > Housing Assistance


   Housing Assistance

      Houston is a dynamic city, continuously improving and growing. There
      are numerous options available for education, employment and
      entertainment. As if that weren't enough, Houston homes are affordable.
      In fact, Houston housing costs are 39 percent below the average of 26
      U.S. urban populations of more than 1.5 million. That makes living in
      Houston an ideal choice.

      In addition to having affordable and available housing, the City of
      Houston maintains an aggressive campaign to improve housing for
      Houston's low-to-moderate income residents. Programs include increasing
      homeownership through mortgage assistance programs, repairing or
      improving homes, and helping to renovate and build affordable rental
      housing and transitional housing.

      Mayor Brown and his administration are committed to increasing
      homeownership to 50 percent by 2010. So much so that the City of
      Houston is actively involved in the Building Homes in America's Cities
      Program in partnership with the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
      Development and the Greater Houston Builders Association. Through this
      pilot program, innovative approaches to increase the number, quality
      and affordability of new housing are tested.

      Homeownership in Houston is on the rise. In the year 2000 alone, 5,000
      new homeowners realized their dreams. The City of Houston helped them
      by reducing obstacles to building, seeking out new financial sources
      and using new incentives such as residential and brownfields tax
      abatements. These programs improve and increase housing opportunities
      in the City.

      Citywide projects completed in 2000 and projects currently under
      construction in tax increment reinvestment zones (special districts
      created to attract private investment in underdeveloped areas) include
      1,149 single-family units, 12,676 multi-family units and 2,453,336
      square feet of commercial and industrial space.

      Houstonians can take advantage of one of the numerous housing
      assistance programs available through the Housing and Community
      Development Department

        * Single Family Mortgage Assistance Programs provide financial
          assistance for down payment, closing costs and prepaid items for
          low-to-moderate income home buyers. In addition, education and
          counseling are provided to help with the home buying experience.
          The City of Houston provides operating assistance and funding for
          Community Housing Development Organizations to develop and sponsor
          affordable housing projects.
        * Multi-Family Housing Programs help provide quality affordable
          rental housing to low-to-moderate income citizens of Houston.
        * The Emergency Home Repair Program provides assistance to very low
          income elderly and/or disabled homeowners with essential homes
          repairs. A Home Improvement Loan Program is also available for
          low-to-moderate income homeowners who live in Houston's Enhanced
          Enterprise Community and wish to renovate their homes.
        * Through Homeless Housing the City provides assistance to nonprofit
          agencies and shelter providers in preventing homelessness and
          breaking the cycle of homelessness through transitional housing and
          supportive services.

      More information on these and other programs can be found at the
      Housing and Community Development.


   Help | Privacy Policy | Site Index
                                                                Texas Online

             COH welcomes your input on how to improve this site

   www.cityofhouston.gov
