http://resourcescommittee.house.gov/press/2001/2001_0828clarkblmnomination.htm

    blue bar
   NEWS from
   Congressman James V. Hansen, (1^st District - Utah)
   Chairman, Committee on Resources; U.S. House of Representatives;
   1324 Longworth House Office Building; Washington, D.C. 20515-6201;
   202-225-2761
   Website address: http://resourcescommittee.house.gov/
   blue bar
   FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
   Contact: Marnie Funk (Marnie.Funk@mail.house.gov) or
   Michael Correia (Michael.Correia@mail.house.gov)
   (202) 226-9019
   August 28, 2001

      Hansen Praises Bush's Intention to Nominate Former Hansen Staffer
                     Kathleen Clarke as the BLM Director

   Washington, D.C. - House Resources Chairman James V. Hansen today
   praised President Bush's intention to nominate one-time Hansen staffer
   Kathleen Clarke as the director of the Bureau of Land Management.
   Clarke worked for Rep. Hansen from 1981 through 1993 as director of
   constituent services and executive director of his Ogden, UT office.
   She left his employ to become the deputy director of the Utah
   Department of Natural Resources. She currently serves as the director.

   Chairman Hansen's statement:
   "Kathleen is an amazing woman. She's bright, visionary, organized and a
       true people person. She will make an outstanding BLM director, just
       as she has been an outstanding director of the Utah Department of
       Natural Resources. She truly cares about and enjoys people. She has
       a remarkable gift for bringing people with strong differences of
       opinion together and helping them find common goals. She has proven
       track record for building consensus and creating alliances. That
       skill is critical in a BLM director. The president couldn't have
       made a better choice."
       During Clarke's three-year tenure as executive director of Utah's
       Department of Natural Resources, Clarke melded seven diverse
       resource divisions into a unified team that has deftly balanced the
       needs of Utah's citizens with sensitive resource management. With
       nearly two-thirds of Utah's 57 million acres managed by the federal
       government, Clarke has proven skills in working closely and
       successfully with federal agencies to jointly manage resources.

     For more information, please check the House Committee on Resources
              Home Page at http://resourcescommittee.house.gov

                                    # # #
