http://www.fdic.gov/consumers/looking/index.html

   Skip Global Header FDIC Global Navigation Links

   Looking for the Best Mortgage


   Image of the brochure cover: Looking for the Best Mortgage

                         Image of brochure cover: Shop, Compare, Negotiate

   Shopping around for a home loan or mortgage will help you to get the
   best financing deal. A mortgage--whether it’s a home purchase, a
   refinancing, or a home equity loan--is a product, just like a car, so
   the price and terms may be negotiable. You’ll want to compare all the
   costs involved in obtaining a mortgage. Shopping, comparing, and
   negotiating may save you thousands of dollars.
   Obtain information from several lenders
   Obtain all important cost information
   Obtain the best deal that you can
   Remember: Shop, compare, negotiate
   Fair lending is required by law        Credit problems?
                                          Glossary
                                          Mortgage shopping worksheet
                                          For more information
   OBTAIN INFORMATION FROM SEVERAL LENDERS
   Home loans are available from several types of lenders--thrift
   institutions, commercial banks, mortgage companies, and credit unions.
   Different lenders may quote you different prices, so you should contact
   several lenders to make sure you’re getting the best price. You can
   also get a home loan through a mortgage broker. Brokers arrange
   transactions rather than lending money directly; in other words, they
   find a lender for you. A broker’s access to several lenders can mean a
   wider selection of loan products and terms from which you can choose.
   Brokers will generally contact several lenders regarding your
   application, but they are not obligated to find the best deal for you
   unless they have contracted with you to act as your agent.
   Consequently, you should consider contacting more than one broker, just
   as you should with banks or thrift institutions.

   Whether you are dealing with a lender or a broker may not always be
   clear. Some financial institutions operate as both lenders and brokers.
   And most brokers’ advertisements do not use the word "broker."
   Therefore, be sure to ask whether a broker is involved. This
   information is important because brokers are usually paid a fee for
   their services that may be separate from and in addition to the
   lender’s origination or other fees. A broker’s compensation may be in
   the form of "points" paid at closing or as an add-on to your interest
   rate, or both. You should ask each broker you work with how he or she
   will be compensated so that you can compare the different fees. Be
   prepared to negotiate with the brokers as well as the lenders.
   OBTAIN ALL IMPORTANT COST INFORMATION
   Be sure to get information about mortgages from several lenders or
   brokers. Know how much of a down payment you can afford, and find out
   all the costs involved in the loan. Knowing just the amount of the
   monthly payment or the interest rate is not enough. Ask for information
   about the same loan amount, loan term, and type of loan so that you can
   compare the information. The following information is important to get
   from each lender and broker:

   RATES
   Ask each lender and broker for a list of its current mortgage interest
   rates and whether the rates being quoted are the lowest for that day or
   week.
   Ask whether the rate is fixed or adjustable. Keep in mind that when
   interest rates for adjustable-rate loans go up, generally so does the
   monthly payment.
   If the rate quoted is for an adjustable-rate loan, ask how your rate
   and loan payment will vary, including whether your loan payment will be
   reduced when rates go down.
   Ask about the loan’s annual percentage rate (APR). The APR takes into
   account not only the interest rate but also points, broker fees, and
   certain other credit charges that you may be required to pay, expressed
   as a yearly rate.

   POINTS

   Points are fees paid to the lender or broker for the loan and are often
   linked to the interest rate; usually the more points you pay, the lower
   the rate.
   Check your local newspaper for information about rates and points
   currently being offered.
   Ask for points to be quoted to you as a dollar amount--rather than just
   as the number of points--so that you will actually know how much you
   will have to pay.

   FEES

   A home loan often involves many fees, such as loan origination or
   underwriting fees, broker fees, and transaction, settlement, and
   closing costs. Every lender or broker should be able to give you an
   estimate of its fees. Many of these fees are negotiable. Some fees are
   paid when you apply for a loan (such as application and appraisal
   fees), and others are paid at closing. In some cases, you can borrow
   the money needed to pay these fees, but doing so will increase your
   loan amount and total costs. "No cost" loans are sometimes available,
   but they usually involve higher rates.
   Ask what each fee includes. Several items may be lumped into one fee.
   Ask for an explanation of any fee you do not understand. Some common
   fees associated with a home loan closing are listed on the Mortgage
   Shopping Worksheet in this brochure.

   DOWN PAYMENTS and PRIVATE MORTGAGE INSURANCE

   Some lenders require 20 percent of the home’s purchase price as a down
   payment. However, many lenders now offer loans that require less than
   20 percent down--sometimes as little as 5 percent on conventional
   loans. If a 20 percent down payment is not made, lenders usually
   require the home buyer to purchase private mortgage insurance (PMI) to
   protect the lender in case the home buyer fails to pay. When
   government-assisted programs such as FHA (Federal Housing
   Administration), VA (Veterans Administration), or Rural Development
   Services are available, the down payment requirements may be
   substantially smaller.
   Ask about the lender’s requirements for a down payment, including what
   you need to do to verify that funds for your down payment are
   available.
   Ask your lender about special programs it may offer.

   If PMI is required for your loan,
   Ask what the total cost of the insurance will be.
   Ask how much your monthly payment will be when including the PMI
   premium.
   Ask how long you will be required to carry PMI.
   OBTAIN THE BEST DEAL THAT YOU CAN
   Once you know what each lender has to offer, negotiate for the best
   deal that you can. On any given day, lenders and brokers may offer
   different prices for the same loan terms to different consumers, even
   if those consumers have the same loan qualifications. The most likely
   reason for this difference in price is that loan officers and brokers
   are often allowed to keep some or all of this difference as extra
   compensation. Generally, the difference between the lowest available
   price for a loan product and any higher price that the borrower agrees
   to pay is an overage. When overages occur, they are built into the
   prices quoted to consumers. They can occur in both fixed and
   variable-rate loans and can be in the form of points, fees, or the
   interest rate. Whether quoted to you by a loan officer or a broker, the
   price of any loan may contain overages.

   Have the lender or broker write down all the costs associated with the
   loan. Then ask if the lender or broker will waive or reduce one or more
   of its fees or agree to a lower rate or fewer points. You’ll want to
   make sure that the lender or broker is not agreeing to lower one fee
   while raising another or to lower the rate while raising points.
   There’s no harm in asking lenders or brokers if they can give better
   terms than the original ones they quoted or than those you have found
   elsewhere.

   Once you are satisfied with the terms you have negotiated, you may want
   to obtain a written lock-in from the lender or broker. The lock-in
   should include the rate that you have agreed upon, the period the
   lock-in lasts, and the number of points to be paid. A fee may be
   charged for locking in the loan rate. This fee may be refundable at
   closing. Lock-ins can protect you from rate increases while your loan
   is being processed; if rates fall, however, you could end up with a
   less favorable rate. Should that happen, try to negotiate a compromise
   with the lender or broker.

   REMEMBER: SHOP, COMPARE, NEGOTIATE
   When buying a home, remember to shop around, to compare costs and
   terms, and to negotiate for the best deal. Your local newspaper and the
   Internet are good places to start shopping for a loan. You can usually
   find information both on interest rates and on points for several
   lenders. Since rates and points can change daily, you’ll want to check
   your newspaper often when shopping for a home loan. But the newspaper
   does not list the fees, so be sure to ask the lenders about them.

   The Mortgage Shopping Worksheet that follows may also help you. Take it
   with you when you speak to each lender or broker and write down the
   information you obtain. Don’t be afraid to make lenders and brokers
   compete with each other for your business by letting them know that you
   are shopping for the best deal.

   FAIR LENDING IS REQUIRED BY LAW
   The Equal Credit Opportunity Act prohibits lenders from discriminating
   against credit applicants in any aspect of a credit transaction on the
   basis of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status,
   age, whether all or part of the applicant’s income comes from a public
   assistance program, or whether the applicant has in good faith
   exercised a right under the Consumer Credit Protection Act.

   The Fair Housing Act prohibits discrimination in residential real
   estate transactions on the basis of race, color, religion, sex,
   handicap, familial status, or national origin.

   Under these laws, a consumer cannot be refused a loan based on these
   characteristics nor be charged more for a loan or offered less
   favorable terms based on such characteristics.

   CREDIT PROBLEMS? STILL SHOP, COMPARE, and NEGOTIATE
   Don’t assume that minor credit problems or difficulties stemming from
   unique circumstances, such as illness or temporary loss of income, will
   limit your loan choices to only high-cost lenders. If your credit
   report contains negative information that is accurate, but there are
   good reasons for trusting you to repay a loan, be sure to explain your
   situation to the lender or broker. If your credit problems cannot be
   explained, you will probably have to pay more than borrowers who have
   good credit histories. But don’t assume that the only way to get credit
   is to pay a high price. Ask how your past credit history affects the
   price of your loan and what you would need to do to get a better price.
   Take the time to shop around and negotiate the best deal that you can.

   Whether you have credit problems or not, it’s a good idea to review
   your credit report for accuracy and completeness before you apply for a
   loan. To order a copy of your credit report, contact:
       Equifax: (800) 685-1111
       TransUnion: (800) 916-8800
       Experian: (888) 397-3742
   GLOSSARY
   Adjustable-rate loans, also known as variable-rate loans, usually offer
   a lower initial interest rate than fixed-rate loans. The interest rate
   fluctuates over the life of the loan based on market conditions, but
   the loan agreement generally sets maximum and minimum rates. When
   interest rates rise, generally so do your loan payments; and when
   interest rates fall, your monthly payments may be lowered.

   Annual percentage rate (APR) is the cost of credit expressed as a
   yearly rate. The APR includes the interest rate, points, broker fees,
   and certain other credit charges that the borrower is required to pay.

   Conventional loans are mortgage loans other than those insured or
   guaranteed by a government agency such as the FHA (Federal Housing
   Administration), the VA (Veterans Administration), or the Rural
   Development Services (formerly know as Farmers Home Administration, or
   FmHA).

   Escrow is the holding of money or documents by a neutral third party
   prior to closing. It can also be an account held by the lender (or
   servicer) into which a homeowner pays money for taxes and insurance.

   Fixed-rate loans generally have repayment terms of 15, 20, or 30 years.
   Both the interest rate and the monthly payments (for principal and
   interest) stay the same during the life of the loan.

   The interest rate is the cost of borrowing money expressed as a
   percentage rate. Interest rates can change because of market
   conditions.

   Loan origination fees are fees charged by the lender for processing the
   loan and are often expressed as a percentage of the loan amount.

   Lock-in refers to a written agreement guaranteeing a home buyer a
   specific interest rate on a home loan provided that the loan is closed
   within a certain period of time, such as 60 or 90 days. Often the
   agreement also specifies the number of points to be paid at closing.

   A mortgage is a document signed by a borrower when a home loan is made
   that gives the lender a right to take possession of the property if the
   borrower fails to pay off the loan.

   Overages are the difference between the lowest available price and any
   higher price that the home buyer agrees to pay for the loan. Loan
   officers and brokers are often allowed to keep some or all of this
   difference as extra compensation.

   Points are fees paid to the lender for the loan. One point equals 1
   percent of the loan amount. Points are usually paid in cash at closing.
   In some cases, the money needed to pay points can be borrowed, but
   doing so will increase the loan amount and the total costs.

   Private mortgage insurance (PMI) protects the lender against a loss if
   a borrower defaults on the loan. It is usually required for loans in
   which the down payment is less than 20 percent of the sales price or,
   in a refinancing, when the amount financed is greater than 80 percent
   of the appraised value.

   Thrift institution is a general term for savings banks and savings and
   loan associations.

   Transaction, settlement, or closing costs may include application fees;
   title examination, abstract of title, title insurance, and property
   survey fees; fees for preparing deeds, mortgages, and settlement
   documents; attorneys’ fees; recording fees; and notary, appraisal, and
   credit report fees. Under the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act,
   the borrower receives a good faith estimate of closing costs at the
   time of application or within three days of application. The good faith
   estimate lists each expected cost either as an amount or a range.

   MORTGAGE SHOPPING WORKSHEET
     Lender 1 Lender 2
   Name of Lender:
   Name of Contact:
   Date of Contact:
   Mortgage Amount:
     mortgage 1 mortgage 2 mortgage 1 mortgage 2
   Basic Information on the Loans
   Type of Mortgage: fixed rate, adjustable rate, conventional, FHA,
   other? If adjustable, see below
   Minimum down payment required
   Loan term (length of loan)
   Contract interest rate
   Annual percentage rate (APR)
   Points (may be called loan discount points)
   Monthly Private Mortgage Insurance (PMI) premiums
   How long must you keep PMI?
   Estimated monthly escrow for taxes and hazard insurance
   Estimated monthly payment (Principal, Interest, Taxes, Insurance, PMI)

   Fees
   Different institutions may have different names for some fees and may
   charge different fees. We have listed some typical fees you may see on
   loan documents.
   Application fee or Loan processing fee
   Origination fee or Underwriting fee
   Lender fee or Funding fee
   Appraisal fee
   Attorney fees
   Document preparation and recording fees
   Broker fees (may be quoted as points, origination fees, or interest
   rate add-on)
   Credit report fee
   Other fees
   Other Costs at Closing/Settlement
   Title search/Title insurance
       For lender
   Title search/Title insurance
       For you
   Estimated prepaid amounts for interest, taxes, hazard insurance,
   payments to escrow
   State and local taxes, stamp taxes, transfer taxes
   Flood determination
   Prepaid Private Mortgage Insurance (PMI)
   Surveys and home inspections
   Total Fees and Other Closing/Settlement Cost Estimates
     Lender 1 Lender 2
   Name of Lender:
     mortgage 1 mortgage 2 mortgage 1 mortgage 2
   Other Questions and Considerations about the Loan
   Are any of the fees or costs waivable?
   Prepayment penalties
   Is there a prepayment penalty?
   If so, how much is it?
   How long does the penalty period last? (for example, 3 years? 5 years?)

   Are extra principal payments allowed?
   Lock-ins
   Is the lock-in agreement in writing?
   Is there a fee to lock-in?
   When does the lock-in occur—at application, approval, or another time?

   How long will the lock-in last?
   If the rate drops before closing, can you lock-in at a lower rate?

   If the loan is an adjustable rate mortgage:
   What is the initial rate?
   What is the maximum the rate could be next year?
   What are the rate and payment caps each year and over the life of the
   loan?
   What is the frequency of rate change and of any changes to the monthly
   payment?
   What is the index that the lender will use?
   What margin will the lender add to the index?
   Credit life insurance
   Does the monthly amount quoted to you include a charge for credit life
   insurance?
   If so, does the lender require credit life insurance as a condition of
   the loan?
   How much does the credit life insurance cost?
   How much lower would your monthly payment be without the credit life
   insurance?
   If the lender does not require credit life insurance, and you still
   want to buy it, what rates can you get from other insurance providers?

      This brochure was prepared by the following agencies:

      Department of Housing and Urban Development
      Department of Justice
      Department of the Treasury
      Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
      Federal Housing Finance Board
      Federal Reserve Board
      Federal Trade Commission
      National Credit Union Administration
      Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight
      Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
      Office of Thrift Supervision

      These agencies (except the Department of the Treasury) enforce
      compliance with laws that prohibit discrimination in lending. If you
      feel that you have been discriminated against in the home financing
      process, you may want to contact one of the agencies listed above about
      your rights under these laws.

      For more information on home lending issues, visit
      (http://www.consumer.gov), write to the Consumer Information Center,
      Pueblo, CO 81009 or visit the Center’s Web site at
      (http://www.pueblo.gsa.gov). The following brochures are available from
      the Center:

      A Consumer’s Guide to Mortgage Lock-Ins
      A Consumer’s Guide to Mortgage Refinancing
      Buying Your Home: Settlement Costs and Helpful Information
      Consumer Handbook on Adjustable Rate Mortgages
      Guide to Single Family Home Mortgage Insurance
      Home Buyer’s Vocabulary
      Home Mortgages: Understanding the Process and Your Rights to Fair
      Lending
      How to Buy a Home with a Low Down Payment
      How to Dispute Credit Report Errors
      The HUD Home Buying Guide
      When Your Home Is on the Line

   Last Updated 10/29/2001 dcainternet@fdic.gov

   Sitemap | Search | Help | Home
