http://km.gov/links/organization_links.html

   [km-gov-title.gif] FirstGov - Your First Click to the U.S. Government
        Welcome to KM.GOV Hot and Late Breaking Knowledge Management News
   Working Group Members Knowledge Management Working Group Documents
   Knowledge Management Special Interest Groups Knowledge Management
   Resources and Links Knowledge Management Events & Conferences
   [e-KM.gif] Federal Chief Information Officers' Council

            Knowledge Management Organizations and Gateway Links Knowledge
    Management Glossaries and Forums Knowledge Management Publications and
         Articles Technology/Vendors Communities of Practice Links On-line
                         Training Government Links Internet Serach Engines


   [transparent.gif]

Organizations

   @Brint.com
   American Productivity & Quality Center (APQC)
   A world-renowned resource for process and performance improvement for
   organizations of all sizes across all industries.
   American Society for Training & Development (ASTD)
   A professional association and leading resource on workplace learning
   and performance issues.
   Association for Information and Image Management (AIIM) International
   On-line community for the users and suppliers of the content, document
   and process management technologies that drive e-business.
   Association for Quality and Participation (AQP)
   An international not-for-profit membership association dedicated to
   improving workplaces through quality and participation practices.
   Business Process Resource Centre
   CALT - The Centre for Advanced Learning Technologies
   CIO.com Knowledge Management Research Center
   Community Intelligence Labs (CoIL)
   An incubator of co-creative projects at the center of a business
   ecosystem thriving on a vast network of mutually supportive
   professional relationships.
   eKnowledge Center
   Information & Knowledge Management Resource Center
   International Center for Applied Studies in Information Technology
   (ICASIT)
   Knowledge Management Central
   School of Management, George Mason University
   The Kaieteur Institute For Knowledge Management
   KMetaSite
   Center for Knowledge Systems, Monterrey Institute of Technology
   (Mexico)
   Knowledge Connections
   David Skyrme Associates - a networked management consultancy
   specializing in advising senior executives and policy makers on how to
   create and implement successful knowledge-based strategies.
   Knowledge, Inc.
   Knowledge Management
   University of Texas at Austin Graduate School of Business
   Knowledge Management Consortium International (KMCI)
   A worldwide, nonprofit organization for knowledge management and
   intellectual capital professionals.
   Knowledge Management Professional Society
   Knowledge Management Resource Center
   Knowledge Management at APQC
   Knowledge Nurture
   Buckman Laboratories
   Program on Social & Organizational Learning
   George Mason University
   The Program on Social and Organizational Learning (PSOL) is an
   interdisciplinary academic unit  George Mason University aimed at
   developing an understanding of "social learning," the way knowledge
   comes to be discovered and conveyed in social systems and
   organizations.
   University of Technology, Sydney, Australia

Gateways

   @Brint.com WWW Virtual Library on Knowledge Management
   CALT - Knowledge Management & Workflow
   Knowledge Management, Organizational Learning, Business Modeling,
   Workflow, Processes, etc.
   CIO.com Knowledge Management Research Center Resource Links
   Online resources, glossaries, forums, publications, etc.
   College of St. Scholastica KM Gateway
   Community Intelligence Labs Table of Contents
   Competia
   Competitive Intelligence and Strategic Planning
   e-Knowledge Markets Meta Portal
   The Kaieteur Institute For Knowledge Management
   GCN.com Portal/Links page
   International Center for Applied Studies in Information Technology
   (ICASIT)
   Knowledge Management Central KM Links
   School of Management, George Mason University
   Additional links to KM articles, books, case studies, companies,
   events, etc.
   KMTool
   A resource for planning knowledge management projects and sharing
   interesting links, reading materials, and other information.
   KM Wiki
   One of the largest collaborative KM repository on the web. Maintained
   by Denham Grey.
   Knowledge, Inc., Connections
   Knowledge Management Resource Center Explorer
   Begin your exploration of knowledge management here. Each of the 16
   departments offers a selection of reviewed sites and/or resources. To
   find resources that have recently been added, check the What's New
   section, or look for the [New] indicator on each page.
   Meta Knowledge Management Portal
   The knowledge management portal for practitioners, researchers, and
   solution providers.
   OutSights
   Provides tools and services to help individuals leverage the knowledge
   they need and use everyday.
   Check the "Systems Thinking" section.
   Program on Social & Organizational Learning
   George Mason University
   The Program on Social and Organizational Learning (PSOL) is an
   interdisciplinary academic unit within the College of Arts and Sciences
   at George Mason University aimed at developing an understanding of
   "social learning," the way knowledge comes to be discovered and
   conveyed in social systems and organizations.
