http://geosciences.llnl.gov

                              [geosciences.jpg]


                               [privacy.gif]
                               [mission.gif]
                               [groups.gif]
                               [centers.gif]
                               [programs.gif]
                               [research.gif]
                               [computer.gif]
                               [postdoc.gif]
                               [contact.gif]
                               [return.gif]
                               [enenv.gif]
                               [llnl.gif]

     [mission3.gif]

     Research in the Earth sciences at Livermore is carried out by the
     Geosciences and Environmental Technology (GET), and the Geophysics
     and Global Security (GGS) Divisions. These organizations conduct
     work in support of the Laboratory's energy, defense, environmental,
     and basic research missions. The two organizations comprise
     approximately 100 professional personnel whose expertise cover a
     wide range of disciplines, including geology, seismology, physics,
     geophysics, fluid dynamics, geochemistry, material science,
     hydrology, chemical engineering, and mechanical engineering. In
     addition, GGS and GET host the Center for Geosciences of the
     Institute for Geophysics and Planetary Physics (IGPP), which was
     established to promote collaborative research between scientists at
     the Laboratory and students and faculty at University of California
     campuses. The geosciences complex also houses resident technical
     support groups from Computations, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical
     Engineering, Chemistry and Materials Science, and the Technical
     Information Department, which add significant expertise to the mix
     of talents available for addressing a problem. In total,
     approximately 160 scientists and engineers are located within the
     complex, making it one of the largest geoscience research groups in
     the nation.

     Our programmatic missions:

     Our scientists and engineers work on a variety of environmental
     problems. We combine experimentation and modeling to resolve issues
     related to the geochemistry, hydrology, thermomechanical response,
     and radionuclide transport in the environment that would surround
     waste packages at the candidate high-level nuclear waste repository
     at Yucca Mtn., NV. We are responsible for research aimed at
     understanding the long-term, in-repository behavior of high-level
     nuclear wasteforms, and we have a major effort in the development of
     innovative technologies for the characterization and remediation of
     subsurface contamination.

     In the defense area, we have had a long-standing role in insuring
     the containment of underground nuclear tests and have applied our
     expertise in geology, geomechanics, geophysics, and shock physics to
     this end. More recently this expertise in the geology of the Nevada
     Test Site (NTS) and well-log interpretation has been applied to
     groundwater contamination issues at the NTS. Our seismologists have
     had a long history of treaty verification research and examining the
     technology and policy issues related to nonproliferation. The
     experimental facilities and researchers of GGS and GET support the
     Weapons Program through the study of the properties of nuclear
     materials at extreme pressures and temperatures.

     Our energy-related research includes geophysical and seismological
     studies of geothermal fields, studies of the chemical kinetics of
     petroleum formation, and seismic, geochemical, and geophysical
     studies related to oil and gas exploration and production.

     Finally, we carry out an extensive basic geosciences research
     program in areas ranging from the tectonics of the earth, to
     underground imaging technologies, to studies of the physical,
     chemical, and transport properties of geological and other materials
     at high temperatures and pressures.

     For additional information on the Geosciences and Environmental
     Technologies programs contact:
     jackson8@llnl.gov -- Ken Jackson

     For additional information on the Geophysics and Global Security
     programs contact:
     burkhard1@llnl.gov -- Norm Burkhard

                 This page maintained by: enevtech@llnl.gov
                               UCRL-MI-120660
