http://discovery.nasa.gov/involved.html

                    Discovery: How You Can Get Involved
   How You Can Get Involved
   If you're a scientist, engineer, student, educator, or just someone who
   is excited about the adventure of space, there are opportunities for
   you to get involved with the Discovery Program.
   Public Participation
   One of Discovery's objectives is to enhance public awareness of space
   exploration. All Discovery missions incorporate activities designed to
   promote participation by the public. One example is the CONTOUR Comet
   Watch, a worldwide program that will coordinate global observations of
   the CONTOUR comets by students and astronomers. Modeled after the
   highly successful International Halley Watch, the program is expected
   to yield educational benefits and important scientific data.
   For more information on how students and the public can participate in
   Discovery missions, go to Education and Outreach.
   Proposing a Discovery Mission
   Approximately every 18 months NASA announces the opportunity to conduct
   planetary science investigations through space flight missions that
   explore solar system bodies either by traveling directly to them or by
   remote examination.
   The philosophy of Discovery is to solicit proposals put together by
   teams comprised of universities, industry and small businesses. Each
   Discovery project team is led by a Principal Investigator who is
   responsible for the overall success of the project. The goal is to
   launch many smaller missions that do focused science with fast
   turn-around times and have an entire mission cost of less than $299
   million.

   Announcements of Opportunity
   The call for proposals is done through a NASA Office of Space Science
   Announcement of Opportunity (AO). The most recent Discovery Program AO
   was released May 19, 2000 and closed August 18, 2000. OSS Research
   Opportunities and Awards lists current and upcoming proposal
   opportunities and includes abstracts of successful proposals.
   The Discovery Acquisition Program homepage includes the Discovery
   Program Library of reference documents needed to write a Discovery
   proposal.
   The NASA Space Science Support Office (SSSO) performs acquisitions and
   assessments for space flight investigations for the Office of Space
   Science and the Office of Earth Science, including evaluation of
   Discovery proposals. In addition, the SSSO leads the development of the
   NASA Technology Plan and NASA Technology Portal.
   The OSS Explanatory Guide for Education Public Outreach Evaluation
   Criteria contains answers to questions frequently asked by members of
   the space science community about preparing an education and public
   outreach segment to an OSS proposal.
   Mission Classes
   There are two types of Discovery Program investigations:
   Discovery Missions are complete missions launched on Expendable Launch
   Vehicles or the Space Shuttle. Proposals must be for an entire
   investigation from project initiation through mission operations,
   including analysis and publication of data.
   Missions of Opportunity (MO) are typically part of a non-NASA space
   mission of any size and having a total cost to NASA that is under $22
   million. These missions are conducted on a no-exchange-of-funds basis
   with the organization sponsoring the mission. NASA intends to solicit
   proposals for MO's with each Announcement of Opportunity issued.
   Go to Partnering Page
   See the Partnering Page for more information on how you can become part
   of a Discovery Mission Team.

   Home | Program | Missions | News | Get Involved | Education | Resources
   | Site Map

   Go to NASA Headquarters Send your feedback to the Curator, Shari
   Asplund.
   Site design by Jayne Dutra, JPL. Additional support provided by Kelly
   Winters.
   Last updated 8/25/00.
   USA Flag
