http://www.100.nist.gov/postwar.htm

      Celebrating our Centennial NIST at 100: Foundations for Progress


                                Postwar Years

      Capital A fter the war ended in 1945, Americans confronted price
    inflation, labor strikes, and shortages of food, cars, and homes. But
      the situation improved rapidly, as the shortages were remedied by
    expanding industries. Veterans received low-interest home loans and a
   building (and baby) boom began. New technologies, such as jet aircraft
     and the transistor, entered the marketplace, transforming the U.S.
                          economy and way of life.

   The next external threat was seen in Communism. The phrase Cold War was
   coined in 1947; two years later, an atomic device was detonated by the
     USSR. In 1950, Communist North Korea invaded South Korea. The U.S.
    participation in these conflicts sustained public funding of science.
   For national defense projects, NIST acquired many new tools, including
    an early electron microscope for research in metallurgy and electron
      optics; a mass spectrometer for measuring nuclear masses; and an
   ultrasonic laboratory for using sound waves to study the properties of
                             gases and liquids.


   President Eisenhower 1954
   President Dwight D. Eisenhower delivered the dedication address at
   NISTs campus in Boulder, Colo., in September 1954.

     NIST was a natural leader in the new science of instrumentation. An
     underwater velocimeter developed with the Navy became the standard
    instrument for recording speed-of-sound profiles in the ocean; it had
         many tactical uses, such as in sonar, and also was used by
        oceanographic institutions. In addition to inventing research
   instruments, the Institute served as a corporate lab for the government
     by developing practical tools such as a physiological monitor that
    sensed blood pressure, heart, and respiration; free-floating weather
    buoys that broadcast data on wind, pressure, and temperature and were
    operable in hurricanes; and an electronic currency counter, estimated
   to save the government almost a quarter of a million dollars annually.

     Perhaps the most important new tool was the computer. An automated
   electronic computing project was established at NIST in 1946, about the
    time that the Electronic Numerical Integrator and Automatic Computer
   (ENIAC), the first all-purpose electronic computer, began operating at
   the University of Pennsylvania. In 1947, NIST began building computers
    for other government agencies; these machines would be used for tasks
    such as predicting radioactive fallout after a nuclear explosion. The
     Institute also began building an interim computer for itself. This
      machine, the Standards Eastern Automatic Computer, was successful
        enough to become a full-scale machine and one of NISTs major
       achievements in computing. NIST staff members also developed a
     mathematical algorithm, used to solve very large systems of linear
   equations, that nearly 50 years later would be named one of the top 10
           algorithms of the century by a computing trade journal.

   In 1950, NIST still was based in the District of Columbia, but it also
   had work under way at 23 other locations. For example, it operated four
   stations for cement testing in Pennsylvania, Washington, Colorado, and
   California; two proving grounds for weapons testing in Maryland and New
      Jersey; a railway scale test car based in Illinois; a station to
   certify government purchases in Massachusetts; and nine field stations
    for studying radio wave propagation spanning the northern hemisphere,
   from Alaska to Hawaii. The need for additional laboratory space led to
      the establishment of a cryogenic engineering laboratory and radio
   facilities in Boulder, Colo., on an 89 hectare (220 acre) tract donated
                                by citizens.

    NIST research was equally far flung. Continuing its early studies of
   underground corrosion, NIST exposed specimens of materials in 128 test
    sites around the nation, representing all major types of U.S. soils.
   Metal samples were buried, periodically unearthed, and assessed. By the
      1950s, these studies had extended to other types of environmental
     corrosion. In 1957, a report was published on the underground sites
    that became virtually indispensable to the corrosion engineer. In the
   following years, NIST continued to help American consumers and industry
       combat corrosion, estimated to be a problem costing $70 billion
   annually by the early 1970s. Internationally renowned for its expertise
    in this field, NIST has worked on corrosion projects of all types and
   scales, from helping the nation of Kuwait understand and eliminate the
      development of holes in its water pipes to suggesting alternative
          materials to solve corrosion problems at the White House.


   Mechanical Comparator
   Tests performed with this mechanical comparator provided data on the
   stability of gage blocks developed by NIST.

    As new industries evolved in the post-war era, innovative measurement
   techniques were needed. In 1955, an Institute electronics scientist was
   assigned a $10,000 project to determine what support could be provided
     to the transistor industry. An early problem was the measurement of
   silicon resistivity, a key property of semiconductors governing device
   design and manufacturing. Measurement discrepancies within and between
      companies were too great for acceptable quality control, so NIST
     developed a non-destructive measurement method that was an order of
    magnitude better than existing practice. This work provided the basis
       for five industrial standards and produced economic benefits to
       industry exceeding 100 times the cost of the research; it also
     established a NIST partnership with the semiconductor industry that
                           continues to this day.

      The new age of science and technology challenged the Institute to
       provide a host of new fundamental physical standards, physical
     constants, and standard reference data. A standard was developed to
     measure the emission rate and flux associated with neutron sources,
      greatly improving accuracy and making interlaboratory comparisons
     possible. This standard proved valuable in the operation of nuclear
    reactors and in conducting neutron irradiation research, such as that
       later performed at NIST. A small device called an omegatron was
    developed, enabling scientists to determine the value of the Faraday
                              constantwhich is


   Ellipsometer
   An ellipsometer was used to investigate the role of thin films in
   corrosion.

    basic to the definition of the ampereusing a high-precision physical
       method instead of electrochemical experiments. And an Institute
   compilation of accurate values for the thermodynamic properties of many
      compounds, in a format that allowed prediction of the outcome of
   thousands of chemical reactions, became immensely important in industry
     as well as scientific research and education; government efforts to
   develop high-performance rocket engines, for instance, drew heavily on
                                 these data.

   The 1950s saw a steady increase in high-rise housing, office buildings,
   and federal buildings throughout the United States. NIST addressed many
      aspects of building technology, including new structural designs,
    structural strength, fire resistance, acoustics and sound insulation,
     heating, ventilation, air conditioning, and building and electrical
     equipment. Research on thermal insulation led to the evaluation of
    aluminum foil reflective insulation and was partially responsible for
            the wide acceptance of glass wool insulation with an
                        aluminum-foil/paper surface.


   [meggersm.jpg]
   NIST made this mercury lamp available to science and industry as an
   ultimate standard of length in 1951. Length measurements were based on
   the circular interference fringes seen in the background.

       In 1957, NIST coordinated data collection for the International
    Geophysical Year, which involved as many as 20,000 scientists from 67
     countries in a study of the Earth and its atmosphere. The year was
      chosen to coincide with a period of maximum sunspot activity. The
     Institute received visual, optical, photographic, photometric, and
    radio observations of the solar activity from all over the world and
    maintained a constant account of the state of the sun. During periods
    of unusual activity, alerts were sent to scientists across the globe.
    The Institute also performed scientific studies of the ionosphere and
    radio propagation as well as satellite observations. Within 12 hours
    after Russia launched Sputnik I, NIST modified existing equipment to
                     receive signals from the satellite.



                        Next Section (The Space Age)
                       Previous Section (World War II)
                          Back to Table of Contents

                            Date created: 11/2/00
                            Last updated: 11/7/00
                     Page maintained by Crissy Robinson.
                           Black Vertical Divider
             Postwar Years
             bullet 1949
                          The “Atomic Age” of Time Begins
             bullet 1950
                        Safeguarding the Charters of Freedom
             bullet 1953
                              NIST Is Tested—And Wins
             bullet 1953
                         Better Dental Tools and Materials
             bullet 1953
                           Pioneering Modular Electronics
             bullet 1954
                    Profitable Ideas: The First Reading Machine
             bullet 1956
                                 The Fall of Parity
             bullet 1957
                       Pioneering Computer Launches New Era
             bullet 1958
                        Achievements in Spectroscopy Pay Off
             bullet 1959
                             A Glittering Research Tool
             bullet 1959
                              The Physics of Baseball
