http://quake.usgs.gov/features/index.html


   [banner2-usgs_sml.gif]
   [banner2-ehz_sml.gif]



                              Latest Quake Info


                             General Quake Info


                           Hazards & Preparedness


                             Earthquake Research


                              Special Features


                            Additional Resources


                                   Search



     You are here: Home > Special Features
   spacer spacer
   spacer spacer


                                   spacer
                               [blackpix.gif]
                              Special Features
                               [blackpix.gif]

   Current Features

   Previous Features


   [tule.jpg] Paleoseismology, Hayward Fault, California
   Knowing the dates of ancient, surface-rupturing earthquakes is key to
   forecasting future damaging quakes. Discovering these dates is the
   province of paleoseismology. When the top few meters of an active fault
   are exhumed, the exposed soil layers may reveal discontinuities or
   other signs of disturbance produced by past earthquakes. The dates of
   these events are determined with radiocarbon analysis. Join USGS and
   Japanese scientists in a recent 3-day field effort to uncover traces of
   ancient earthquakes on the Hayward fault
   [blackpix.gif]
   [camera_icon.jpg] Parkfield Earthquake Experiment
   The USGS and the State of California are conducting a
   multidisciplinary, long-term project aimed at better understanding the
   earthquake process. The project involves recording a variety of
   geophysical signals before, during and after the expected earthquake at
   Parkfield, testing a short-term earthquake prediction, and (proposed)
   drilling into the San Andreas fault.
   [blackpix.gif]
   [download.gif] Software for Download
   Several USGS scientists have authored some software packages used in
   their research. These programs include stress- triggering software, a
   general purpose 2-D seismic seismic ray tracer, and conversions from
   UTM to Lat/Long, and others. Descriptions of these programs and access
   to downloadable versions are now available on the web. Specific issues
   like operating system requirements, interface, file size and types of
   output are addressed here. Some programs include examples, manuals and
   tutorials, also obtainable from the webpage.
   [blackpix.gif]
   shakemap ShakeMaps for Northern California and Southern California
   The intensity of ground shaking during a significant earthquake in
   California is represented here in near-real-time by a set of maps. The
   maps show the peak ground velocity and acceleration, as measured by
   seismic networks, and an estimate of the "Modified Mercalli Intensity"
   of shaking, which is calculated using these measurements. Maps are
   provided for the most recent earthquake as well as past events.
   Developed by TriNet with ongoing development by the USGS.
   [blackpix.gif]
   seismogram Real-time Display of Seismograms in Northern California
   From among the 447 seismographs continously monitored in northern
   California, we have selected a representative set of 16 stations for
   display on our web pages. In addition to these, 12 stations in the Long
   Valley caldera are presented. The seismograms are a graphic record of
   the movement of the earth's surface. For each of these stations, the
   seismograms for approximately the past 7 days are available for
   viewing. The current day's records are updated every 5 minutes.
   [blackpix.gif]
   70% Earthquake Probability Study for the San Francisco Bay Area
   On the basis of research conducted since the 1989 Loma Prieta
   earthquake, U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) and other scientists conclude
   that there is a 70% probability of at least one magnitude 6.7 or
   greater quake, capable of causing widespread damage, striking the San
   Francisco Bay region before 2030. Major quakes may occur in any part of
   this rapidly growing region. This emphasizes the urgency for all
   communities in the Bay region to continue preparing for earthquakes.
   [blackpix.gif]
   sfbayquakes.org

   Portfolio of Landscape, Seascape and Faults of the San Francisco Bay
   Area
   Developed by Robert E. Crippen (JPL) and Ross Stein (USGS), these
   images drape Landsat TM satellite imagery over Digital Elevation Models
   to show the bay as it has never been seen before. The images are
   available as a map view or as perspective views looking North, East or
   West, including close ups. Small versions of the images can be
   downloaded quickly for viewing or printing on your home computer, and
   full size (6ft) images are available for download and ordering from
   Digital Prism or Kinko's.
   [blackpix.gif]
   fault rupture USGS Scientific Expedition: Earthquake in Turkey - 1999
   Scientists and engineers from the U.S. Geological Survey departed for
   the epicentral region on August 19, 1999, less than 2 days after the
   quake occurred, to join in an international scientific effort that will
   deploy seismic and geodetic instruments, make geologic field
   measurements and assess and record the structural damage. The
   expedition team's reports, photos and commentaries will be updated here
   as they arrive.
   [blackpix.gif]
   bay area map Did You Feel It?
   This is a recent USGS page that collects information about ground
   shaking after significant earthquakes. If you felt an earthquake, click
   here to report where you were, what you felt and what damage you saw.
   Your information will be added to our database. You can view a
   live-updated map displaying the accumulated data from your report and
   others. See where the shaking was strongest. View similar maps for old
   earthquakes too. Developed by the USGS Southern California Office.
   Previous Features >
   Homepage  |  Site Index  |  Contact Us  |  About Us  |  USGS Earthquake
                               News Releases

   U.S. Geological Survey, Earthquake Hazards Program
   URL http://quake.wr.usgs.gov/features/index.html
   Contact:webmaster@ehznorth.wr.usgs.gov
   Last modification: October 24, 2001
