http://www.spd.nasa.gov/news/sctc_01_02.html

 spd news


         Several of NASA's Commercial Space Centers (CSCs) and Industrial
         Partners are Joining in the Fight Against Terrorism:

         Space Communications Technology Center

                                                            For more information
                                                                    email us at:
                                                               spd@msfc.nasa.gov

 SCTC's new camera The Space Communications Technology Center (SCTC), a
 NASA Commercial Space Center, located at Florida Atlantic University
 (Boca Raton, FL) has been developing cameras for face-recognition
 technology that could make a substantial difference in identifying
 terrorists.

 Most surveillance systems that are currently on the market use
 monochrome and low-resolution cameras that can only give good
 recognition for a head-and-shoulders shot. The high-resolution cameras
 are only available for still images. It is very doubtful that an
 alleged terrorist would stand still in front of a camera long enough to
 be identified by the technology in use today. For identification in a
 large area, surveillance systems normally reject all but the moving
 part of the image. The SCTC developed camera has the high resolution
 and high frame rate necessary to capture both moving and non-moving
 images.

 Researcher working on camera SCTC's new camera is the ideal device
 needed to identify a moving person in a crowd. SCTC used Complementary
 Metal-Oxide Semiconductor (CMOS) sensors to develop a compact and
 low-cost camera. This camera is a two megapixel high-definition color
 camera that scans at 60 frames per second, which is ten times the
 number of pixels at twice the frame rate as surveillance cameras that
 are currently used. This technology could give authorities the tool
 that they need to quickly identify and apprehend known terrorists or
 criminals.


  Home | What is Space Product Development | Commercial Space Centers |
              Industry | Research | News | Success Stories

  Microgravity Research Program Office | Marshall Space Flight Center |
                     Other NASA Centers | NASA Home
