http://www.usinfo.state.gov/journals/ites/0102/ijee/ijee0102.htm

                                   [iiptop3.gif]

                               ECONOMIC PERSPECTIVES

       An Electronic Journal of the U.S. Department of State, Vol. 7, No. 1,
                                   January 2002

                 red bullet Welcome red bullet Contents red bullet

              (Download Adobe Acrobat version / zipped ASCII version

                                  [thinblue.gif]

                       TRADE IN THE POST-DOHA GLOBAL ECONOMY


   A new global round of trade negotiations, dubbed the "Doha Development
     Agenda" by trade ministers representing the member countries of the
     World Trade Organization, has the potential to make life better for
        people in more than 140 participating WTO nations, especially
                            developing countries.

   The negotiations, which start in January 2002 and are scheduled to end
   in 2005, promise to open markets on a broad range of goods and services
    of crucial interest to developing countries, especially agriculture.
    Wealthier countries also have pledged to assist developing countries
      build capacity to participate in trade negotiations and implement
                 commitments they make in these agreements.

   Participation by new WTO entrants China and Taiwan is certain to change
   the dynamics of the negotiations. Opening its markets further to trade
         should bolster China's massive structural economic reforms.

      Meanwhile, members from both major political parties of the U.S.
    Congress have promised to monitor every step in the WTO negotiations.

        This electronic journal brings together the views of key U.S.
     negotiators, as well as a leading member of the U.S. Senate and an
    academic scholar, to discuss the major issues that will be negotiated
                          over the next few years.

    Under Secretary of State Alan Larson explores the crucial role played
     by developing countries in launching the new round, particularly in
   agriculture and intellectual property. Industrial market access issues
     and the benefits of lower tariffs for developing countries are the
       subjects of a contribution by Under Secretary of Commerce Grant
       Aldonas. Under Secretary of Agriculture J.B. Penn outlines U.S.
    agricultural negotiating objectives in three areas -- market access,
     export competition, and domestic supports. James Zumwalt, economic
      minister counselor at the U.S. Embassy in Beijing, describes why
            China's accession to the WTO is good for all parties.

   The journal also includes an article by Senator Max Baucus, chairman of
   the Senate Finance Committee, which is responsible for oversight of the
    trade negotiations, on the importance of congressional involvement in
    the new trade round particularly concerning the environment and U.S.
                              antidumping law.

    And Jeffrey Schott, senior fellow at the Institute for International
    Economics, explains why the structure of the current negotiations can
        be a "win-win" proposition for both industrial and developing
                                 countries.

                                  thin blue rule
        Back to top | Contents - Economic Perspectives, January 2002 | IIP
                               E-Journals | IIP Home
