http://ethics.od.nih.gov/Topics/oa520.htm

                National Institutes of Health Ethics Program

                             Outside Activities

   [grad_blu.gif]

   An employee may engage in outside activities that require the use of
   professional qualifications readily identified with his or her NIH
   position, provided his/her work does not create a real or an apparent
   conflict of interest or interfere with regularly assigned duties. This
   information is also available in NIH Manual Chapter 2300-735-4, Outside
   Work and Related Activities with Outside Organizations. Links to
   specific sections of the chapter are provided below. The entire chapter
   is also available on this web site in the section entitled NIH Policies
   and and Manual Chapters.

   Basic Rules for Outside Activities
    1. Activities Must Not Be Related to Official Duties: An employee may
       not receive compensation for outside activities that relate to
       his/her official duties and responsibilities as an NIH employee. An
       activity is considered related if it is done as part of official
       duties or the employee was invited to perform the activity
       primarily because of the employee’s official position, or it deals
       with any matter to which: an employee is presently assigned; an
       employee has been assigned during the previous one-year period; or
       if it deals with any ongoing or announced policy, program or
       operation of the NIH. Exception: An employee may teach a course,
       with or without compensation, on topics related to his/her official
       duties when that course involves multiple presentations and is
       offered as part of a regularly scheduled curriculum at an
       accredited institution of higher education.
    2. Compensation: An employee may receive compensation for his/her work
       with outside organizations. Compensation may be in the form of
       money, stocks, or any other financial instruments that have a
       monetary value. Compensation also includes travel expenses, whether
       provided in-kind or reimbursed. An employee may also perform work
       for an outside organization without pay. There is no limitation on
       the amount of compensation the career employee can receive.
       Non-career employees should contact their DEC or Ethics Coordinator
       to determine if they are subject to limitations.
    3. Compensation From Federal Agencies: A civilian employee may not
       accept compensation for service of any kind that is funded by a
       DHHS contract, grant, cooperative agreement, or other DHHS
       mechanism. Compensation is also prohibited for assisting or
       preparing a grant application or other document intended for
       submission to the DHHS (5 CFR 5501.106(c)). Compensation for any
       kind of unrelated work performed for and paid directly by another
       Federal agency may be accepted unless prohibited by either the Dual
       Compensation Clause (5 U.S.C. Section 5533) or the Federal
       Acquisition Regulations. Compensation from a Federal grant or
       contract may be accepted for unrelated work performed for a
       non-DHHS organization provided that: (a) the services performed do
       not involve legal representation, accounting services or public
       relations services; and (b) the source of the funding is not DHHS.
       A Commissioned Officer (CO) may not accept funds provided directly
       or indirectly by any Federal source other than his/her salary. For
       example, a CO may not accept payment for private practice from
       funds reimbursed by Medicare. Employees are encouraged to check
       with their DEC or Ethics Coordinator for guidance in specific
       situations.
    4. Use of Personal Time: Generally, an employee must conduct all
       outside activities on his/her personal time. If outside work is to
       be performed during normal NIH working hours, the employee must be
       on approved annual leave, leave without pay, credit hours, or
       compensatory time and not present at his/her duty station. There is
       no limit on the number of hours an employee can devote to outside
       activities except when time spent on outside activities interferes
       with the performance of an employee's official duties. Commissioned
       Officers should consult the Division of Commissioned Personnel
       regarding the leave requirements of the Corps.
    5. Use of Government Resources: An employee normally may not use
       government resources (e.g., equipment, services, stationary or
       other supplies or staff) in the performance of outside activities.
       There are some instances where minimal use of government resources
       may be permitted. Contact your ICD's Ethics Coordinator if you have
       questions.
    6. Use of NIH Space: An employee may not normally use NIH meeting
       rooms for outside activities. Occasionally, activities may be
       authorized if they are a part of an NIH event which has been
       approved by the Office of Research Services for the use of NIH
       space. However, exceptions will be approved only if it is
       determined that the activities will serve an important need of NIH.
    7. Use of Official Titles: Both the employee and an outside
       organization are prohibited from referencing the title of an
       employee in connection with any outside activity or employment
       except as follows:
          + An employee may include or permit the inclusion of his/her
            title or position as one of several biographical details when
            such information is used to introduce and identify the
            employee with the outside activity, provided the title or
            position is given no more prominence than other significant
            biographical details. An employee may NOT be listed in the
            written program using title and Institute affiliation. If
            employees see an improper listing, it is advised that they
            write to the organization and include the Standards of Ethical
            Conduct rule in the correspondence. This will help protect the
            employee and avoid any problems. In addition, when giving oral
            presentations, employees should inform their audience that
            they are speaking in a personal capacity and the opinions
            expressed are their own and do not represent the views of the
            Federal Government.
          + When a title or position is used in connection with articles
            published in a scientific or professional journal, or other
            publication where the topics relate to research, the title or
            position may be used but must be accompanied by a reasonably
            prominent disclaimer that the views expressed in the articles
            do not necessarily represent the views of NIH and/or DHHS, for
            example: "This article [chapter] was written in a personal
            capacity and does not represent the opinions of the NIH, DHHS,
            or the Federal Government."
    8. Use of Information on Current and Ongoing NIH Research: In the
       context of an outside activity, only information that is in the
       public domain may be used and that information must not derive from
       work an employee has done within the last year. An employee may
       provide information on previous work (i.e., performed prior to the
       last 12-month period) which has been publicly disclosed, provided
       such information does not deal in significant part with ongoing
       research, programs, or policies. The employee may also provide
       information that is based on his/her general scientific or
       professional knowledge and expertise and not derived specifically
       from his/her employment at NIH.
    9. Advance Approval Required: All outside activities must be requested
       and approved in advance by a Deputy Ethics Counselor or authorized
       designee as authorized by current personnel delegations of
       authority. Personal activities which are not covered by the NIH
       outside activity definition do not require submission of an HHS-520
       nor any approval for participation, for example, religious or
       community service (officer at a religious organization, PTA
       President, Boy Scouts), or other activities which do not readily
       identify the employee with the NIH (retail clerk or other similar
       positions).
   10. Participation in the Business Affairs of Outside Organizations: An
       employee may participate in the internal and external business
       operations of an outside organization as an outside activity,
       including involvement in the human resources, financial or
       fund-raising activities to the extent permitted by these
       organizations. Such involvement usually occurs when an employee
       serves as an officer or member of a Board of Directors of an
       outside organization. However, such service requires that the
       employee disqualify him/herself if the outside organization has any
       official dealings with the employee’s official position at NIH.
   11. Other Considerations Associated With Working for an Outside
       Organization:There is no limit on the amount of money an employee
       may earn from outside work activities. There is also no limit on
       the amount of time an employee can spend performing outside
       activities. However, outside activities may not interfere or impair
       the ability of an employee to perform his/her officially assigned
       Government duties. Approval to engage in outside work activities
       will be denied or withdrawn if the activities interfere with the
       performance of the employee’s duties at NIH or those of his/her
       co-workers.
   12. Activities With Foreign Entities: The US Constitution prohibits
       Federal Government employees from holding any position with a
       foreign government, including any entity owned or operated by a
       foreign government. Therefore, employees may not have an outside
       activity with any foreign government nor with any entity owned or
       operated by a foreign government, which may include public research
       institutions or universities. Outside activities with privately
       funded foreign universities and other non-government foreign
       entities may be permitted with prior approval. For a current list
       of non-government foreign entities, see Activities with Foreign
       Entities.

   Types of Outside Activities

   Within this framework, the following types of compensated assignments
   may be permitted as outside activities:
    1. Writing or editing textbooks or other scientific or professional
       books;
    2. Editing scientific or professional journals or reviewing
       manuscripts, including service on an editorial board;
    3. Teaching;
    4. Consulting with organizations when the primary purpose is to render
       scientific or professional advice based on the scientist's personal
       expertise. Examples include consulting for a law firm, in a review
       and evaluation context, in the format of a round table discussion,
       or as a self-employed consultant.
    5. Serving on scientific advisory or review boards to render advice on
       scientific or educational matters; [If the service is on an
       advisory board of a for-profit organization, NIH employees may not
       comprise more than one-third of the board’s membership. If the
       advisory board actually makes a decision on whether or how policy
       will be implemented, then membership on the board must be performed
       as an outside activity.]
    6. Engaging in outside practice within the employee's profession, such
       as clinical practice by physicians, dentists, nurses and other
       licensed health professionals, provided there is no conflict of
       interest or commitment to patient care during work hours; or
    7. Giving formal speeches or presentations on a scientific or
       professional topic based on the employee’s personal expertise.

   The following appendices in NIH Chapter 2300-735-4 contain additional
   information on outside activities:

     Appendix 6, Summary Information on Activities with Outside
     Organizations
     Appendix 7, Detailed Information on Writing, Editing and Consulting
     Appendix 8, Examples of Activities with Outside Organizations

   Continuing Outside Activities

   Outside activities with an original approval period equal to or greater
   than one year are considered continuing outside activities, and are
   required to be updated annually. Though use of the HHS Form 521 is no
   longer required, the information contained on the form is required,
   i.e, whether the activity is still continuing and the number of hours
   the employee was engaged in the outside activity. ICDs are required to
   obtain the updated information at the beginning of each calendar year
   and may use the HHS-521 or other format to collect the information. The
   reporting period is the previous calendar year. No further reporting of
   the information to the NIH is required unless requested.

   For additional information, contact your Deputy Ethics Counselor or
   your ICD's Ethics Coordinator.

   Updated: 11/02/99.
   _______________________________________________________________________

   [back.gif] Return to Ethics Home Page
