http://www.hso.ihs.gov/mission.htm

   Health Services Category Strategic Mission Statement

   October 1999

   Health Services Category Mission: To support the strategic missions of
   the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and the Commissioned
   Corps of the U.S. Public Health Service (USPHS) by providing leadership
   and expertise in the basic and applied sciences, clinical health
   specialties, and health administration and education.

   Health Services Officers (HSOs) represent the most diverse group of
   health professionals in the USPHS. HSOs are trained in at least 55
   public health and occupational health specialities. The academic and
   professional disciplines represented within the Health Services
   category include biological, physical and environmental sciences,
   optometry, social work, podiatry, medical technology, dental hygiene,
   medical records administration, physician assistant, computer science
   and information technology, statistics, epidemiology, health education,
   health care administration, and many other specialities. Today, HSOs
   serve in all agencies of the USPHS, and many other federal agencies
   including the Immigration and Naturalization Service, U.S. Coast Guard,
   Bureau of Prisons, Environmental Protection Agency, and Health Care
   Financing Administration.

   In that HSOs represent such a diverse group of health professionals,
   they are strategically poised to respond to numerous requests for
   assistance, all contributing to public health policy development and
   program administration initiatives which enhance the quality of life of
   the American people. HSOs promote, improve, and protect the Nation's
   health through population-based public health, occupational safety and
   health, and clinical preventive service programs. HSOs are committed to
   achieving the Surgeon General's three broad health priorities:
     * Creating a balanced community health system that emphasizes health
       promotion, disease prevention, early diagnosis and universal access
       to care;
     * Maintaining a public health perspective on global health; and,
     * Eliminating racial and ethnic disparities in health.

   In the 21^st century, HSOs foresee continuing their current mission to
   support the established priorities of the Surgeon General and the
   policy and program objectives of the professional setting to which each
   HSO is assigned in the following ways:
     * Maintain a strong science base for decision-making through research
       integrity, demonstration projects, and program evaluations;
     * Promote innovative and effective public health and occupational
       health policies, monitoring and surveillance activities, programs,
       and practices;
     * Provide leadership and expertise in responding to national and
       global health emergencies;
     * Increase the number of effective networks, coalitions, and
       partnerships addressing priority public health objectives;
     * Improve communication with diverse audiences to increase awareness
       and understanding of the major public health problems confront
       Americans; and,
     * Incorporate computer and informational technologies in clinical,
       research, financial, and administrative settings to promote the
       health of the Nation.
