http://www.wi.nrcs.usda.gov/about.html

   [nrcsbar.gif]

                                   About NRCS

   The Natural Resources Conservation Service, formerly the Soil
   Conservation Service, is the federal agency that works with landowners
   on private lands to conserve natural resources. NRCS is part of the
   U.S. Department of Agriculture.

  What does NRCS do?

   Nearly three-fourths of the technical assistance provided by the agency
   goes to helping farmers and ranchers develop conservation systems
   uniquely suited to their land and individual ways of doing business.
   The agency also provides assistance to other private landowners and
   rural and urban communities to reduce erosion, conserve and protect
   water, and solve other resource problems.

                             NRCS Responsibilities

  Technical Assistance for Conservation

   Conservation technical assistance is the basis of NRCS's mission to
   conserve, sustain, and improve America's private lands. NRCS staff work
   one-on-one with private landowners to develop and implement
   conservation plans which protect the soil, water, air, plant and animal
   resources on the 1.5 billion acres of privately-owned land in the
   United States.

  Soil Survey

   NRCS is responsible for surveying the soils of the United States,
   publishing and interpreting the soils information. Soils information is
   the basis for natural resouce and land use planning. It is the key to
   assessing site potential for specific uses and identifying soil
   characteristics and properties.

  National Resources Inventory

   Every five years, NRCS conducts the National Resources Inventory (NRI)
   on nonfederal rural land in the United States. This inventory shows
   natural resource trends, such as land cover and use, soil erosion,
   prime farmland, and wetlands. The 1992 NRI, for example, shows that
   farmers are dramatically reducing soil erosion on cropland. From 1982
   to 1992, erosion on all cropland declined by about one-third, going
   from 3.1 billion to 2.1 billion tons a year.

  Wetlands

   Wetlands conservation is an important and sensitive issue. During
   1982-1992, wetland losses due to agriculture slowed to about 31,000
   acres a year, a more than 90 percent reduction compared to conversion
   rates between 1954 and 1974. NRCS is one of the four primary federal
   agencies involved with wetlands.
   Wetlands Reserve Program
   In the Wetlands Reserve Program, conservation easements are purchased
   from landowners to restore or enhance, wetland areas. Ownership,
   control of access, and some compatible uses remain with the landowner.
   Due to the Wetlands Reserve and other wetland restoration programs, for
   the first time since the introduction of the plow, this country has
   achieved no net loss of wetlands due to agriculture.
   Wetland Identification
   NRCS has technical leadership for identification and delineation of
   wetlands on agricultural lands, and on all lands for USDA program
   participants. NRCS maintains a list of hydric soils and a wetland
   inventory on agricultural land.

  Soil Quality

   Over the past decade, NRCS has been helping producers develop and
   implement 1.7 million conservation plans on 143 million acres of highly
   erodible cropland as part of the conservation compliance provision of
   the Food Security Act of 1985. As a result, erosion on our most highly
   erodible cropland has been cut by two-thirds.

  Water Quality

   NRCS provides assistance to farmers to improve water quality. This
   includes improving nutrient and pesticide management and reducing soil
   erosion, thus decreasing sediment that would otherwise end up in lakes
   and streams. Technical assistance, including engineering, structure
   design and layout for manure management and water quality practices
   contributes significantly to state water quality efforts. Through the
   Environmental Quality Incentives Program, NRCS provides technical and
   financial assistance for local resource priorities.

                                   NRCS Roles

  NRCS works with state and local partners

   NRCS relies on many partners to help set conservation goals, work with
   people on the land, and provide assistance. Its partners include county
   land conservation departments, state and federal agencies,
   agribusiness, private industry, agricultural, commodity and
   environmental groups, and professional societies. The nations 3,000
   conservation districts-called Land Conservation Committees in Wisconsin
   - are the key to the local conservation delivery system. These units of
   county government are organized under state law. They link NRCS with
   local priorities for soil and water conservation. They also complement
   the work of NRCSs conservationists with county programs and with county
   staff.

  NRCS Staff

   The strength of NRCS is in its workforce. Most of its employees serve
   in USDAs network of local, county-based offices called USDA Service
   Centers. The rest are at state, regional, and national offices,
   providing technology, policy, and administrative support. NRCS
   employees have the technical expertise and field experience to help
   land users solve their natural resource challenges and maintain and
   improve their economic viability. Employees are high skilled in many
   scientific and technical specialties, including:

            soil science soil conservation  agronomy
            biology      ecology            wetland conservation
            forestry     engineering        geology
            hydrology    cultural resources economics

  Earth Team Volunteers

   NRCSs Earth Team volunteer program provides an opportunity for everyone
   to share their conservation ethic. In 1994, 12,300 volunteers
   contributed over a half million hours of service, valued at $5.5
   million, in agency offices, on the land, and in conservation education
   programs in schools and communities across the nation.

In Wisconsin . . .

   The NRCS State Office Headquarters for Wisconsin is located at 6515
   Watts Road, Madison, 53719.

   Patricia S. Leavenworth is the State Conservationist. Telephone
   608-276-8732, fax 608-276-5890.

   Field offices are located in most Wisconsin counties in the USDA
   Service Centers.

   NRCS website is www.nrcs.gov and the Wisconsin NRCS site is
   www.wi.nrcs.usda.gov
