http://www.tda.gov/online/index.html

   spacer spacer spacer spacer


   Federal Government Resources

   The White House

   Export-Import Bank of the United States
   An independent U.S. government agency that helps finance the overseas
   sale of U.S. goods and services.

   Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC)
   OPIC supports, finances and insures projects that have a positive
   effect on U.S. employment, are financially sound, and promise
   significant benefits to the social and economic development of the host
   country.

   Small Business Administration
   Includes advice for small businesses interested in exporting.

   U.S. Agency for International Development

   U.S. Department of Commerce
     * International Trade Administration
       Trade specialists at the Department of Commerce
     * National Technical Information Service
       * Bureau of Export Administration Offering timely access to
       official U.S. export regulations.
       * Fed World
       Information services for the federal government.
       * Government Research Center
       * International Trade and Business Bookstore
       * WNC
       A foreign news service from the U.S. Government.
       * Worldtec
       A foreign technology alert service for the U.S. Government
     * STAT-USA (National Trade Data Bank)
       Trade leads, foreign market reports, government statistics and
       more.
     * Business Advisor
       The one-stop-shop electronic link to government for business.

   U.S. Department of State

   U.S. Trade Representative
   Responsible for developing and coordinating U.S. international trade,
   commodity and direct investment policy and leading or directing
   negotiations with other countries on such matters.

   table spacer TDA logo
   About Us
   News and Events
   TDA Bi-weekly Pipeline
   Library Holdings
   TDA by Region and Sector
   How to Work with TDA
   Related Links
   Contact Us
   Job Opportunities
   Site Index
   image used for layout alignment
   Toolbar
