http://www.mcdot.maricopa.gov/bicycle/bike.htm


   Visit the Maricopa.gov Home Page

     Maricopa County Website Visit the Maricopa.gov Home Page


   Blank



Visit the Maricopa.gov Home Page...click on the link to the left

                                                                                               Contact Us

                                              Department of Transportation
                                                              602-506-1482

   Blank



                                               Navigation Box

                  • MCDOT Home
                 • Contact MCDOT
                   • Divisions
                     • FAQ's
                   • Services
                   • Projects
                  • Topics List
                  • Website Map
                 • Website Tour

                           Many documents on this
                           site are in pdf format.
          Click the button below for a free copy of Acrobat Reader.
                             Get Acrobat Reader

   Bicycle Program


                              Mission Statement
       The Maricopa County Department of Transportation shall actively
   enhance, increase and enrich the freedom and opportunities of Maricopa
     County citizens by integrating bicycle transportation as a standard
      element in county engineering, planning, programs, and processes.

   Executive Summary

   Bicycle Plan

   System Map

   Appendix A - Network Details

   Existing Bicycle Facilities Map - 1999

   Our Mission Statement

   BY-CYCLE Newsletter 2002


   The BY-CYCLE Newsletter
   MCDOT By-Cycle is published to provide Maricopa County citizens with
   timely information about projects, events, public meetings, and
   relevant data. To receive electronic notification of new issues,
   contact Reed Kempton, Bicycle / Multi-Modal Planner, at 602.506.1630 or
   reedkempton@mail.maricopa.gov.

    Jan/Feb


   Past BY-CYCLE Newsletters

   Maricopa County Trail Program

   Maricopa County Trail Program
   On February 21, 2000 the Maricopa County Board of Supervisors announced
   the formation of the Maricopa County Trail Commission and their plans
   to form a regional trail system. The goal of the program is to connect
   the County park system, link recreational corridors around the Valley
   and help preserve open space in the community.
   Maricopa County Trail Commission
   White Tank Park to Cave Creek Park Study Presentation
   Public Meeting Schedule

   Bicycle Safety

   More bicycle info

   Rules of the Road
   This is a PowerPoint presentation on basic rules of the road. Please
   feel free to link to the presentation or download it for use in any
   bicycle safety materials.
   Helmet Stories

   Bicycle Issues

   More bicycle info The following links provide information on a variety
                     of bicycling issues.
                     Fatality Rankings Fatally Flawed
                     Cycling Against Traffic
                     Institutionalizing Bicycling
                     Using Statistics
                     Bicycling 101


   Bicycle Links

   More bicycle info In MCDOT's continuing effort to promote bicycling on
   a regional scale, links to other government agencies and non-profit
   organizations have been provided.
   Bike Links

   MCDOT Bicycle Advisory Committee

   BAC In 1989, the Board of Supervisors approved the development of a
       Bicycle Program. The program hired a full-time Bicycle Coordinator, and
       created a bicycle advisory committee. The ten-member committee consists
       of two appointees from each of the five supervisor districts, chosen
       for their skill and interest in bicycling.
       Bicycle Advisory Committee (BAC)


   County Site Map     What's New

                                                                                        2001 Maricopa County


                                       Legal Information    Privacy Policy

   © 2001 Maricopa County
