http://www.whitehouse.gov/news/releases/2002/01/20020122-2.html


   Skip to Content text only go to search President News Vice President
   History & Tours First Lady Search
   Welcome to the White House.
   Government Kids Only Espanol Contact Privacy Policy SiteMap
   __________ Search


   West Wing Connections
   Policies in Focus
   America Responds to Terrorism
   Homeland Security
   Economy & Budget
   Education Reform
   Medicare
   Social Security
   More Issues
   En Español

   News
   Current News
   Press Briefings
   Proclamations
   Nominations
   Executive Orders
   Radio Addresses
   Discurso Radial
   (en Español)
   Appointments
   Application
   Photos
   Photo of the President speaking to a Joint Session of Congress
   Photo Essays
   An American Response
   Standing for the Flag

    Home > News & Policies
                          Printer-Friendly Version

                                                     For Immediate Release
                                             Office of the Press Secretary
                                                          January 22, 2002

   President Discusses Energy, Economy in West Virginia
   Remarks by the President at Airport Welcome
   Charleston Regional Airport
   Charleston, West Virginia

         watch View the President's Remarks
         listen Listen to the President's Remarks

   11:30 A.M. EST

   THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you all.  It's nice to be back.  (Applause.)  I
   appreciate this West Virginia welcome.  Thank you for your hospitality,
   and thank you for giving me a chance to give you a little update on how
   we're doing as a nation.

   But first, before I begin, I want to thank our friend, great friend to
   West Virginia, Shelley Moore Capito, for her
   leadership.  (Applause.)  I've learned some things about Shelley
   Moore.  One, she's very bright.  Two, she doesn't always do what the
   President says, she's got a little bit of an independent streak.  But,
   three, she loves West Virginia.  She loves the state and she's working
   hard to do what's right for the West Virginia people.  And I'm proud to
   call her friend.  And I hope you're proud to call her
   Congresswoman.  (Applause.)

   It's been a pleasure to work with some of the distinguished members you
   have sent to Washington, D.C., and there's no more distinguished than
   Senator Robert Byrd.  (Applause.)  He loves his state, he loves the
   country.  I have been spellbound by his speeches.  I've been interested
   to hear his points of view.  I look forward to working with him as
   Congress comes back to Washington, D.C. after the Christmas
   break.  West Virginia has got a fine friend in Senator Byrd.  And so
   does America, and I'm proud to call him friend.  (Applause.)

   And I appreciate your Governor being here today, Governor Wise.  It's
   awfully kind of him to come and say hello to the President.  We're
   working closely together on a subject that's dear to your heart and
   dear to my heart, and that's how to make sure West Virginia, and all of
   America, remains safe, make sure we've got a homeland that's
   secure.  And the Governor is working closely on this issue with
   us.  (Applause.)

   I appreciate so very much the former Governor, Cecil Underwood, and my
   friend, for being here.  (Applause.)  I don't know if they put Cecil
   into Ripley's or not -- (laughter) -- he was the youngest governor ever
   and the oldest governor ever, and he's still looking pretty spry to me.
   (Applause.)

   I appreciate the Speaker and the Senate President, as well as the
   minority leaders in the Senate and the House for coming.  Thank you all
   for being here to say hello.  And your Mayor showed up.  Mr. Mayor,
   thanks for coming, as well.  It's an honor to be with my fellow
   citizens from West Virginia on such a beautiful day.  And it's a day
   for me to tell you, folks, we're winning.  (Applause.)

   Little did I realize the last time I was here that I would be coming
   back to this very spot to thank the fine men and women of the West
   Virginia Guard for helping us fight and win the war against
   terror.  (Applause.) For all who wear our uniform, I want to thank --
   say thank you on behalf of all Americans.  For the moms and dads and
   wives and husbands and sons and daughters of those who wear the uniform
   -- some of whom had been deployed out of West Virginia -- thanks from
   the bottom of our hearts for your sacrifice.  It is for a cause that is
   noble and a cause that is just, and a cause that this great nation will
   win.  (Applause.)

   I appreciate the fact that our nation is now on alert, that we're
   ready; that if you see something odd happening in your neighborhood,
   that you now know to go and notify the local police -- something
   different is happening and we might ought to take a look at it.

   Every morning I wake up like I did this morning, I get to the Oval
   Office -- I'm an early morning man.  Barney and Spot and I head out to
   the South Lawn.  (Laughter.)  I head in to the Oval Office, and the
   first thing I look at is potential threats to the United States.  Every
   morning, I'm reminded that my most important job in this day and age is
   to make sure our government, the federal government and all governments
   at all levels, do everything we can to prevent a further attack on the
   good people of this country.  (Applause.)

   I want to assure you, we're chasing down every lead, we're following
   every hint.  Our FBI is on full alert.  Their primary task now is to
   prevent another attack.  We're working with states -- as I mentioned
   the Governor -- we're working with local officers to better share
   information to disrupt and prevent.  And I'm so proud of the way our
   nation is responding.  But the truth of the matter is, the best way to
   secure the homeland of the United States is to find the enemy where he
   hides and bring him to justice.  (Applause.)

   I know I'm like many moms -- many dads, and Laura is like many moms who
   yearn for peace.  We want nothing more than our children to be in a
   peaceful world.  But I understand that in order to defeat the evil
   ones, we must use the mighty U.S. military to put -- after we have put
   them on notice, to rout them out of their caves and to bring them to
   justice.  And that's exactly what our nation will do.  (Applause.)

   Our military has performed brilliantly.  I gave them a task with clear
   objectives, and they're accomplishing those tasks and those
   objectives.  I said real clear to the world that -- real clearly to the
   world -- to old West Texan in me slipping out -- (laughter) -- clearly
   to the world, I said that either you are with us or you are against us
   when it comes to finding terror.  (Applause.)  I'm proud to report
   many, many, many nations have signed up to be with us.

   But I want to assure you all that if I tire, they will go to sleep. And
   if we blink, so will they.  And therefore, it's so important for this
   nation to remain steadfast and resolved and strong in our purpose to
   free the world of terror, so our children can live
   peacefully.  (Applause.)

   I want to thank the people of West Virginia and the American people for
   their patience.  They understand that the task at hand may take a
   while.  They understand that this country is in this for the long pull;
   that in order to secure freedom for generations to come, that we, this
   generation, must be willing to sacrifice, must be patient, must be
   determined, and must be resolved.  We have no other choice, as far as
   I'm concerned.  It's either allow terror to spread its wings and
   terrorize others, or to stand tough.  And this nation has made the
   decision to stand tough.  And I'm proud of her.  (Applause.)

   A fellow came the other day to the office, and said, well, are you
   worried about Mr. bin Laden?  I said, no, I'm not too worried about
   him. He's the guy that needs to be worried.  (Laughter.)  But I want to
   assure you, the objective is not bin Laden.  Oh, we'll get bin
   Laden.  (Applause.) There's only so many caves he can hide in, if he's
   still hiding in caves. My attitude was, once we get him running, it's
   just a matter of time before we bring him to justice.

   But the mission is broader than just one person.  The mission is to
   make sure that terror, wherever it tries to settle in, is routed
   out.  The mission is to say to the governments that think that we're
   not watching, we're watching; and if you try to harbor a terrorist,
   feed a terrorist, you're just as guilty as those who would commit
   murder on innocent citizens.  (Applause.)

   So I want to reiterate what I said to those who are making the
   sacrifice by wearing the uniform, and particularly their families.  I
   want to thank you.  I grieve and mourn and pray when we lose a
   life.  And we will, when it comes to the war on terror.  But I told --

   AUDIENCE MEMBER:  We love you, sir!

   THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  (Laughter.)

   But I told the families that I've spoken to, by word and written
   letter, that this nation is doing the right thing, that we're seeds in
   history; that we refuse to be shaped by terror; that we will win the
   war on terror; and the cause of sacrifice is noble and it is just.

   What a great nation we have.  (Applause.)  A nation that is willing to
   sacrifice for freedom and, at the same time, a nation that is
   liberating women and children in Afghanistan from the evil repression
   of the Taliban. (Applause.)  A nation that not only stands on
   principle, but a nation that is a nation of liberators.  I'm so proud
   of our military and the American people, and the Afghan women and
   children thank you from the bottom of our heart.  (Applause.)

   I know a lot of people are thinking overseas, and that's -- I can
   understand that, but we've got a lot of work here to do at home,
   too.  The evil ones, when they hit us, affected our economy.  And I've
   got to tell you something -- I'm worried about people being able to
   find jobs.  My economic plan is based upon this word:  jobs.  I want to
   ask that question all around the country, what do we do to create
   work?  There's a lot of good people who want to work, and we've got to
   help them find work.  And so I'm asking Congress, when they come back,
   to keep in mind one word:  jobs. (Applause.)

   Now, we've got to help people.  We've got to help the good folks who
   have lost their job as a result of 9/11.  And that means extending
   unemployment benefits -- we can do that.  That means helping them with
   health care -- and we'll do that.  But the American people, they don't
   want just an unemployment check, they want a permanent paycheck.  And
   that's what we've got to be figuring out how to do.  (Applause.)

   I remember when I was campaigning in West Virginia, I said, if you'd
   give me a chance to become your President, one thing I'll fight for is
   to let the working people keep more of their own money.  And guess
   what?  We got it done.  (Applause.)  I mean, a real tax relief package
   that understands that by giving people their own money, somebody is
   going to spend more.  And if somebody spends more, somebody is going to
   produce what their spending -- spend money to produce what their
   spending on, which means they've got to hire people.  Listen, tax
   relief equals jobs.

   And thank goodness we did it when we did.  (Applause.)  This economy
   was slowing down -- the evidence shows it -- in March of 2001.  It was
   beginning to kind of grind down.  And tax relief happened at the right
   time.  There's some weird economics going on in Washington.  There are
   some saying they don't want the tax relief plan to go through, which is
   basically a tax increase.  They want to raise taxes, in the midst of a
   recession.  I can't imagine what textbook they're reading.  (Laughter.)
   But raising taxes, or not allowing money in people's pockets in the
   midst of the recession is the wrong prescription.  If you want to
   create jobs, let the American people have more of their own money, so
   they can spend it. (Applause.)

   We've got to sell more products around the world.  I've spent a lot of
   time talking to American farmers.  I said, look, our farmers are the
   best in the world.  We're the best at growing crops.  So why don't we
   try to feed people who don't have food?  It seems like to me it makes
   sense for us to open markets for U.S. products.

   We're good at what we do.  We've got the best workers in the world.
   We're the most productive people on the face of the Earth.  We should
   not fear opening markets; we ought to welcome opening markets, so we
   can sell more products.  If we sell more products overseas, it means
   more jobs for the working people in America.  (Applause.)

   In order to grow our economy -- in order to grow our economy, we've got
   to have an energy plan.  Believe it or not, we're the first
   administration in a long time that's developed a comprehensive energy
   plan. On the one hand, it says we've got to do a good job of
   conservation.  We've got to promote technologies that will enable
   people to have the same lifestyle without burning as much
   energy.  We've got to figure out ways for our cars to burn less fuel,
   but be able to be comfortable and be able to let families drive all
   throughout West Virginia.  We've got to conserve energy.

   But conservation is only one half of the equation.  In order to become
   less dependent on foreign sources of energy, we've got to find and
   produce more energy at home, including coal.  (Applause.)

   I don't view the world as zero sum.  I believe that we can have coal
   production and enhanced technologies in order to make sure the coal
   burns cleaner.  I believe we can have both.  Now, I know there are some
   in Washington who don't want to concede that.  But they must not have
   much faith in the technology that's coming on line.  I don't believe we
   can be independent as a nation unless we've got a constructive coal
   policy.

   And so I asked Congress, once and for all, to pass a comprehensive
   energy plan, including exploring for natural gas in the state of Alaska
   so we can be less dependent.  (Applause.)

   The other day -- some of the most interesting meetings are taking place
   in Washington.  The other day I was with Jimmy Hoffa.  A lot of people
   say, well, he's a Republican, obviously he doesn't care about the
   union.  That's not true at all, for starters.  I care about working
   people. I don't care what label they put on them.  I don't care if
   their a Democrat, Republican, independent, union, non-union; I want to
   find jobs for everybody.  I'm the President of everybody, not just a
   few.  And so I sat down with Jimmy, and we talked about -- (applause)
   -- and I was with the head of the Carpenters, and Seafarers, and
   construction people.  And we're talking about jobs.

   And he reminded me one reason he was so strong for the energy plan was
   not only because it was good for U.S. security -- he cares about U.S.
   security just like I care about U.S. security -- but because when we
   explore for energy in America, it means jobs for working people.  This
   is just as much of a job program as it is an energy -- as a national
   security program, folks.  And it's about time Congress skips all the
   politics and focuses on what's right for the American
   people.  (Applause.)

   Congress is coming back -- Congress is coming back tomorrow to
   Washington.  And my call to Congress is not let the year 2002 become a
   bitter, political year.  Now, I know a lot of them are running for
   office, and that's fine.  And I've got my favorites.  (Laughter.)  Like
   Shelley Moore.  But anyway -- (applause.)  But there are some things
   that are more important than political party.

   The national security is more important than political party.  And I
   appreciate the way Democrats and Republicans have worked
   together.  Energy is more important than political party.  Jobs are
   more important than political party.  And we showed what's possible in
   Washington on the education bill.  We passed a good piece of
   legislation that says, public education is a cornerstone of job
   security.  It's a cornerstone of hope. And the federal government is
   going to take an active role in promoting accountability, to make sure
   nobody gets left behind in America. (Applause.)

   I trust the local people of West Virginia to make the choices for the
   children of West Virginia.  So we're going to pass power out of
   Washington, so the schools are run locally.  But there are some major
   initiatives inherent in that bill.  One of them is making sure every
   child reads.  I mean every child. Not just a few; not just only one
   kind of child -- every single child.  If we want to have an America
   that is hopeful and prosperous, if we want to have a job-oriented
   country, we'd better make sure our schools teach every child how to
   read.  And if they don't, it's time for us to start blowing the whistle
   on failure, and changing things early, before it's too
   late.  (Applause.)

   So there I was, a couple of weeks ago, traveling the country, saying,
   you know, Ted Kennedy is a pretty good fellow.  I know that sends a lot
   of shock waves throughout American political scene.  (Laughter.)  It
   certainly shocked him.  (Laughter.)  We worked together on the
   education bill. Instead of saying, well, I can't talk to you because
   you're of this party, and you can't talk to me because I'm that party,
   we said, why don't we do what's right for America when it comes to our
   children?  Why don't we set aside all the bickering?  It's time for us
   to understand in Washington that America is more important than our
   political parties, and come together and do what's right for the
   American people.  (Applause.)

   We are a strong, strong nation, and I am so proud to be the President
   of such an incredible land.  You know, the enemy when they hit us on
   9/11, really didn't understand America.  They thought we were soft.  I
   guess they were watching too much TV.  (Laughter.)  They didn't
   understand our character or our resolve. They didn't understand that if
   you anger a mighty nation, that we will rise up with one voice and
   bring justice.  We're a nation not of revenge, but a nation of
   justice.  We're a nation that loves our freedom.  We're a nation -- a
   nation based upon some fundamental values and principles.

   You know, after 9/11, a lot of mothers and dads sat down at their
   dinner tables and reassessed their value systems.  They said, we now
   understand our most important job is to love our children.  We may be
   working 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., but loving your children is forever.
   There's a lot of mothers and dads -- (applause)  -- there's a lot of
   moms and dads saying, "I love you," on a daily basis, and that's
   good.  Out of evil can and has come good.

   AUDIENCE MEMBER:  How's Laura --

   THE PRESIDENT:  She's doing great.  Thank you for mentioning her name.
   (Laughter.)  Laura is doing great.  I got to tell you, what a fabulous,
   fabulous wife and First Lady she is.  (Applause.)  It's clear I married
   above myself.  (Laughter.)

   But I want you all to know that many have asked, "What can I do to help
   America?"  And they're still asking that question.  Well, the best way
   to fight evil is with good.  The best way to let the enemy know here at
   home that they have not affected us is for parents to love their
   children more; is for people in communities all across West Virginia to
   help a neighbor at need. If you've got a shut-in across the street from
   you and want to be a soldier in the war against terror, walk across the
   street on a daily basis and say, can I help you.  (Applause.)

   If your church group or synagogue or mosque knows somebody who's
   lonely, why don't you help set up a mentoring program so the child
   knows somebody in America loves him or her.  If you want to be a
   soldier in the war against terror, love a neighbor just like you'd like
   to be loved yourself.

   America is defined not by our government.  America is defined by
   millions of acts of kindness that take place every single day all
   across America, because this nation is a nation of such strong values,
   of such strong faith, that nobody, no evil one will ever be able to
   diminish the good inherent in the soul and character of the American
   people.

   It is my honor to be your President and to be the President of such a
   fabulous land.  Thank you for having me come.  May God bless.  God
   bless America.  Thank you all.  (Applause.)

   END                                                          11:58 A.M.
   EST

   Printer-Friendly Version

   Picture of White House logo, which features the White House inside an
   oval.

   Press Briefings
   Press Briefing by White House Press Secretary
   Press Briefing Archives
   Radio Address
   President's Radio Address to the Nation
   Discurso Radial del Presidente a la Nacion
   Radio Address Archive
   Archivos - Discursos Radial del Presidente
   News & Speeches
   January 2002
   December 2001
   November 2001
   October 2001
   September 2001
   August 2001
   July 2001
   June 2001
   May 2001
   April 2001
   March 2001
   February 2001
   January 2001
   Proclamations
   National Mentoring Month
   Proclamation Archives
   Executive Orders
   Federal Facts
   Federal Statistics
   West Wing
   History

   President  |  Vice President  |  First Lady  |  Mrs. Cheney  |  News &
   Policies  |
   History & Tours |  Kids  |  Your Government  |  Appointments  |
   Contact |  Text only

   Accessibility  |  Search  |  Privacy Policy  |  Help
