http://www.courtinfo.ca.gov/newsreleases/NR05-02.HTM



   Judicial Council of California: News Release. Public Information Office
   (415) 865-7740.
   Release Date: January 24, 2002 Release Number:  05
     __________________________________________________________________

Top Santa Cruz Court Executive Takes AOC Management Post

   San FranciscoChristine Patton, Executive Officer of the Superior Court
   of Santa Cruz County, has accepted an appointment as the new Regional
   Administrative Director of the Bay Area/Northern Coastal Courts for the
   Administrative Office of the Courts (AOC).  She will begin her new
   duties by July 1, 2002.

   Chris Patton exemplifies excellence in judicial administration, said
   William C. Vickrey, Administrative Director of the California Courts,
   who formally announced the appointment today.

   Chris has proven throughout her court career that she has the
   leadership skills needed to handle the many challenges confronting our
   court system today, Mr. Vickrey continued, noting that she was the 2000
   recipient of the Judicial Councils Distinguished Service Award for
   Judicial Administration.  Chriss experience as an executive officer of
   a smaller court, her statewide involvement in many complex issues, and
   the friendships and respect she has across the state makes her uniquely
   qualified for this challenge.

   Chief Justice Ronald M. George, Chair of the Judicial Council,
   commented, I have had the personal opportunity to work with Chris
   Patton over the last 15 years on issues involving judicial procedures
   and administration.  Based on my first-hand knowledge of her keen
   intelligence, ethics, and interpersonal skills, I was pleased to be
   able to appoint her to the Judicial Council last year.  Our courts and
   the public will be the beneficiaries of her well-deserved appointment
   as the Regional Administrative Director of the Bay Area/Northern
   Coastal Courts.

   Ronald G. Overholt, Chief Deputy Administrative Director of the AOC,
   stated, I cannot think of a better person to serve as the Regional
   Administrative Director of the Bay Area and Northern Coastal Courts.
   Chris has been a true leader through the most challenging period in the
   history of the California courts. She has been of particular value to
   court executives statewide in improving relations with court employees
   and their labor organizations. Although I was looking forward to
   working with her as a newly appointed member of the Judicial Council, I
   am looking forward even more to her assistance and guidance as our new
   regional director.

   Michael Bergeisen, General Counsel of the Judicial Council of
   California, noted, Chris Patton has been actively involved in many of
   the most important issues in the judicial branch, including trial court
   unification and trial court employment.  She has demonstrated the
   judgment, knowledge, and expertise needed for this new position and
   will be a tremendous asset to the Administrative Office of the Courts
   and the courts.

   Ms. Patton will join two other AOC regional directors:  Sheila
   Gonzalez, former Executive Officer of the Superior Court of Ventura
   County, now the Regional Administrative Director for Southern
   California; and Michael M. Roddy, former Executive Officer of the
   Superior Court of Sacramento County, now the Regional Administrative
   Director of Central and Northern California.

   The goal of all three positions is to expand services to Californias 58
   trial courts and to provide an effective liaison between the AOC and
   the courts, especially in the areas of technology, finance, and human
   resources.

   Ms. Patton said,  I am very excited about working with the courts in
   the Bay Area/Northern Coastal region.  While I will miss working on a
   day-to-day basis with the wonderful judges, staff, and justice partners
   in Santa Cruz County, I look forward to making new acquaintances and
   strengthening existing friendships as regional director."

   The new regional office will serve the 16 counties in the First and
   Sixth Appellate Counties and the trial courts within those districts.
   The 12 counties within the First District are Del Norte, Humboldt,
   Mendocino, Lake, Napa, Sonoma, Solano, Marin, San Francisco, Contra
   Costa, Alameda, and San Mateo.  The four counties within the Sixth
   Appellate District are Santa Clara, Santa Cruz, Monterey, and San
   Benito.  The regional office will be located in the Hiram Johnson State
   Office Building in San Francisco.

   The court executive officer of Santa Cruz County since 1988, Ms. Patton
   has guided the court system through the transition from municipal and
   superior courts to consolidated/coordinated courts and eventually to a
   unified court in 1998.

   Ms. Patton has contributed to statewide judicial administration by
   serving on various Judicial Council committees and task forces,
   including the Trial Court Employees Task Force and the Trial Court
   Budget Commission.  She currently is an advisory member of the Judicial
   Council and is vice chair of the Court Executive Advisory Committee.

   Ms. Patton began her court and legal career after teaching math,
   science, and biology to high school and junior high students in Salem,
   Oregon from 1972 to 1978.  She earned her law degree from Stanford Law
   School in 1981 and clerked for the Court of Appeals in Oregon for a
   year.  In private law practice in California from 1981 to 1983, she
   served as a legal research attorney for the Santa Cruz Superior Court
   from 1986 to 1988.  In 1988, she was appointed the courts Superior
   Court Administrator.

   The news of Ms. Pattons appointment as regional director was greeted
   enthusiastically by Bay Area and Northern Coastal superior courts.

   Arthur Sims, Executive Officer of the Superior Court of Alameda County,
   commented: Chris has a reputation as a hardworking and innovative
   administrator, and I am sure that her many administrative talents will
   place the newly formed region instantly on a forward-moving course.  I
   am looking forward to working with her in her new capacity and to
   having the support of the new regional office.  Congratulations to
   Chris on her well-deserved appointment.

   Kiri Torre, Executive Officer of the Superior Court of Santa Clara
   County, said: Chris Patton is an excellent choice to represent the
   perspective of the courts in the Bay Area and Northern Coastal region.
   She is a lawyer, has extensive practical experience in the courts, and
   was last years winner of the Distinguished Service Award for Judicial
   Administration.  Chris has been a colleague to many of us over the
   years and has garnered our respect for her fine work.

   Sherri Pedersen, Executive Officer of the Superior Court of Monterey
   County, stated: It was great to hear that Chris has been appointed as
   the new regional director for the 16 bay and coastal courts.  In fact,
   our management staff cheered when they heard the news.  Her dedication
   to the field of court administration, her strong leadership skills, and
   her positive approach to problem solving make her the perfect selection
   for the job.

   Charles D. Ramey, Executive Officer of the Superior Court of Solano
   County, said:  I wholeheartedly endorse Chriss selection.  She is a
   committed and proven professional with many years of management
   experience in the California trial courts.  She knows the issues,
   concerns, and challenges on the ground and has extensive statewide
   experience that uniquely qualifies her for this new role.  She has the
   qualities of character we all look for in a strong leader.

   The Judicial Council is the policymaking body of the California courts,
   the largest court system in the nation.  Under the leadership of the
   Chief Justice and in accordance with the California Constitution, the
   council is responsible for ensuring the consistent, independent,
   impartial, and accessible administration of justice.  The
   Administrative Office of the Courts carries out the official actions of
   the council and ensures leadership and excellence in court
   administration.































   g:\Jc_serv\comm.\mayo\nr02\nr05-02
