http://stevens.senate.gov/bio.htm

                                [tsmast2.gif]

       [USEMAP:sidebar2.gif]

                                                            BIOGRAPHY

   A member of the Senate for 33 years, Ted Stevens is Alaska's senior Senator.
   Stevens' tenure in the Senate makes him the 6th most senior member among his
   colleagues, and 2nd among Republicans.

      From 1997 to 2001, Stevens held the position of Chairman of the Senate
      Appropriations Committee, responsible for annually allocating more than
      a half-trillion dollars in federal funds among various government
      programs, agencies and departments. While its chairman, Stevens earned
      the respect of his colleagues through sheer tenacity and the efficient
      movement of appropriations bills. He currently serves as the
      Committee's ranking member and continues to play a leading role in this
   process.

   Stevens is also one of Congress' leading overseers of the national defense.
   As ranking member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, he has
   meticulously tracked defense requirements to ensure our security. This
   struggle often includes standing up for defense needs against other spending
   pressures. Stevens has continually worked for smarter, more efficient
   programs, that can better meet the twenty-first century threats to our
   nation.

      Ted Stevens was born in Indianapolis, Indiana, November 18, 1923.
      During World War II he was a pilot in the China-Burma-India theater,
      supporting the Flying Tigers of the 14th Air Force. He received two
      Distinguished Flying Crosses, two Air Medals, and the Yuan Hai medal
      awarded by the Republic of China. Following the war he graduated from
      UCLA and Harvard Law School, and practiced law in Washington, D.C. In
      the early 1950's he moved to Alaska, at the time a territory of the
      U.S. He practiced law in Fairbanks, and subsequently was appointed U.S.
      Attorney in Fairbanks in 1953, a position he held for three years.

      He then transferred to Washington, D.C., in 1956 to work as legislative
      counsel and then as an assistant to the Secretary of the Interior Fred
      Seaton. In 1960 he was appointed Solicitor (chief counsel) of the
      Department of the Interior by President Eisenhower. While in Washington
      Stevens worked successfully for Alaska's admission to the Union as the
      49th state.

      Upon returning to Alaska Stevens practiced law in Anchorage. In 1964 he
      was elected to the Alaska House of Representatives. In his second term
      in Alaska's legislature he was the House Majority Leader.

      Following the death of Senator E.L. Bob Bartlett in December of 1968,
      then-Governor Walter Hickel appointed Stevens to fill the vacancy.
      Under Alaska law, Stevens had to stand for election in 1970 to complete
      Bartlett's term, which expired in 1972. Stevens was subsequently
      elected for a full term in 1972, and re-elected in 1978, 1984, 1990 and
      1996.

      From 1977 to 1985 Stevens served as the Assistant Republican Leader
      (the Whip). In 1994, when Republicans most recently won control of the
      Senate, Stevens was appointed Chairman of the Senate Rules Committee.
      He then served as chairman of the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee
      in 1996. Stevens also has served as Chairman of the Senate Ethics
      Committee, the Arms Control Observer Group, and the Joint Committee on
      the Library of Congress.

      In addition to his duties on the Senate Appropriations Committee and
      Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, Stevens serves on the
      Appropriations Subcommittees on Commerce, Justice, State and Judiciary;
      Interior; Labor, Health, Human Services and Education; and Legislative
      Branch. He is also a member of the Senate Committee on Commerce,
      Science and Transportation, the Senate Committee on Governmental
      Affairs, the Senate Committee on Rules and Administration and serves as
      Vice Chairman of the Joint Committee on the Library of Congress.

      As Senator, Stevens has worked tirelessly to ensure the promises made
      to Alaska under the Statehood Act are fulfilled. Virtually every
      Senator is aware that Alaska is one-fifth the size of the entire United
      States, thanks to Stevens' constant reminders on the Senate floor and
      elsewhere. Unique characteristics such as this, often drive the special
      requirements, as well as the spectacular benefits, associated with the
      Greatland.

      Senator Stevens is married to Catherine Chandler of Anchorage. They
      have one child. He also has five other children by his first wife Ann,
   now deceased.


   Main Page | Biography | Internships | Flag Orders | Tourist Information
                           | Committee Information

   Staff Directory | Federal Websites | Alaska Websites | Press Releases |
                       Legislation & Floor Statements
