http://pilc.grc.nasa.gov/descr.txt

   BOF Description: Name: Performance Implications of Link Characteristics
   (PILC) Chairs: Aaron Falk and Mark Allman adalk@mail.hac.com,
   mallman@lerc.nasa.gov Description: The Internet network-layer and
   transport-layer protocols are designed to accommodate a very wide range
   of networking technologies and characteristics. Nevertheless,
   experience has shown that the particular properties of different
   network links can have a significant impact on the performance of
   Internet protocols operating over those links, and on the performance
   of connections along paths that include such links. Some examples of
   possibly problematic characteristics: - Long delay links. Affects timer
   estimation, congestion adaptation. - Links with high bandwidth-delay
   product. Difficult to fully utilize and still respond to congestion. -
   Links with variable bandwidth-delay products (such as multi-channel
   ISDN, or LEOs). Difficult to track how much throughput a connection
   should try to attain. - Links with varying delay. Delays due to link
   level signalling may affect the accuracy of RTO estimation. - Links
   with link layer flow control. May have adverse interactions with
   congestion control. - Links with asymmetric bandwidth. Can lead to
   throughput limitations such as ACK starvation. - Links with unusually
   high error rates. Can lead to loss of performance due to inappropriate
   perception of congestion. Can impair protocols that do not protect
   their data with strong checksums. - Links with inconsistent error
   rates. Can defeat attempts to distinguish between congestive loss and
   corruption loss. - Links with significant monetary, resource-scarcity,
   or delay cost for establishing connections and/or keeping connections
   open. These encourage not only bandwidth-efficient protocols, but also
   protocols that cluster their packet exchanges together rather than
   spacing them out in time, and can increase the cost of using standard
   soft-state mechanisms such as periodic state refresh messages. -
   Significantly low bandwidth links. Creates pressure for mixing together
   otherwise separate elements (such as transport and network layers, or
   multiple transport connections) in an effort to reduce bandwidth
   requirements via compression. - Unidirectional. Can make link-layer
   request/response, such as ARP, impossible. (UDLR already addresses the
   routing elements of this.) - Non-transitive reachability (A can reach
   B, and B can reach C, but A can't reach C). Breaks assumptions about
   subnet properties. - Shared-channel broadcast to huge numbers of
   receivers. Such links stress the notion of using them for unicast
   traffic and the viability of protocols that require a backchannel such
   as IGMP. Such links also incur a danger of major broadcast reply
   implosions. - Links that reorder packets. Can erroneously trigger TCP
   fast retransmission. Impairs protocols that adapt based on timing
   analysis. Can stress reassembly code if not well tuned. - Multipathing.
   Can complicate protocol adaptation since there is no longer a single
   path property to estimate, but more than one. Diminshes efficiency of
   header compression algorithms. - Links with intermittent outages.
   Timers may fail to adapt to outage and either falsely signal lost
   connectivity, or back off so far that response once the outage resolves
   is highly delayed. - Small MTU links. Can lead to "black holes" if PMTU
   discovery mechanism fails. This BOF will explore the size of this
   problem space: what sort of link characteristics prove problematic,
   what sort of Internet protocols are adversely affected? One goal is to
   assess the utility of forming a working group to produce informational
   document(s) detailing how link characteristics interact with different
   IETF protocols - what well-established and less-well-established steps
   can be taken to ameliorate these problems. Another goal is to assess
   the utility forming a working group(s) to develop modifications or
   extensions to IETF protocols to address the most pressing performance
   issues. Note that the BOF focusses on link *characteristics* and not on
   link layer *technologies* such as Frame Relay, ATM or Ethernet.
   Discussing particular characteristics present in some of these (e.g.,
   capture effect) is in scope; discussing aspects of the technology as a
   whole (e.g., CIR) is out of scope. A mailing list for discussing the
   issues related to this BOF has been setup. Notes to the list should be
   sent to pilc@lerc.nasa.gov. To subscribe to the mailing list, send a
   note to majordomo@lerc.nasa.gov with the words "subscribe pilc" in the
   body of the note. The mailing list archive is available at
   http://pilc.lerc.nasa.gov/pilc/.
