http://cwc.anl.gov/footnts.htm




            Footnotes
             for the
           MANUAL FOR
     NATIONAL IMPLEMENTATION
             OF THE
   CHEMICAL WEAPONS CONVENTION

          (Web Edition)

                              [cwc.jpg]



      1. The Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production,
      Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on their Destruction, Jan.
      13, 1993, 32 I.L.M. 800 (entered into force April 29, 1997). As of
      early 1998, the CWC has 106 States Parties and 167 signatories.
      Go to reference #1 in document

      2. CWC, art. I, ¶ 1. Chemical weapons are defined as toxic chemicals
      and their precursors, except where intended for not-prohibited
      purposes, as long as the types and quantities are consistent with such
      purposes; munitions and devices specifically designed to cause death or
      other harm through the toxic properties of toxic chemicals which would
      be released as a result of employment of such munitions and devices;
      and any equipment specifically designed for use directly in connection
      with the employment of munitions and devices. CWC, art. II, ¶ 1.
      Go to reference #2 in document

      3. CWC, art. I, ¶¶ 2-4.
      Go to reference #3 in document

      4. Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties, May 23, 1969, art. 18, 8
      I.L.M. 679, U.N. Doc. A/CHEF. 39/27 [hereinafter Vienna Convention].
      The Vienna Convention essentially codifies the customary international
      law of treaties.
      Go to reference #4 in document

      5. Art. XIX provides: "This Convention shall be subject to ratification
      by States Signatories according to their respective constitutional
      processes."
      Go to reference #5 in document

      6. Vienna Convention, art. 26. "Every treaty in force is binding upon
      the parties to it and must be performed by them in good faith." Id.
      Go to reference #6 in document

      7. Article XXII provides:

      The Articles of this Convention shall not be subject to reservations.
      The Annexes of this Convention shall not be subject to reservations
      incompatible with its object and purpose.
      Go to reference #7 in document

      8. Vienna Convention, art. 27.
      Go to reference #8 in document

      9. Incorporation can take three primary forms: (1) domestic legislation
      can be amended or extended to take account of a treaty's obligations;
      (2) the treaty can be re-written and its text formally incorporated
      into domestic legislation; or (3) the treaty can be formally
      incorporated, unchanged and in toto, into domestic legislation. The
      South African legislation blends these primary forms: CWC obligations
      are incorporated into domestic law through the existing
      Non-Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction Act of 1993 which
      provided that the State President may, by proclamation in the Gazette,
      add to the Act any Schedule in which the provisions of an international
      convention, treaty, or agreement with regard to non-proliferation
      entered into or ratified by the government of the Republic are
      included. On the date of commencement of a proclamation in terms of the
      above, the convention shall have the force of law and apply in the
      Republic. (S.A. Act # 87, art. 27(1),(3)).
      Go to reference #9 in document

      10. For example, the Canadian legislation provides that "Every
      individual who commits, outside of Canada, an act or omission that
      would, if committed in Canada, be an offense under this Act, shall, if
      the individual is a Canadian citizen or a permanent resident . . . be
      deemed to have committed that act or omission in Canada." (Can., §22).
      See also the German legislation. (Ger., art. 18). The Belarus law on
      export control extends jurisdiction to any acts undertaken by Belarus
      subjects that lead to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
      (Bel. Exp. Cont. Law, art. 3).
      Go to reference #10 in document

      11. For example, the legislation of the United Kingdom extends
      jurisdiction to acts done outside the U.K. by "U.K. nationals, Scottish
      partnerships, and bodies incorporated under the law of any part of the
      U.K." (U.K., §3(2)).
      Go to reference #11 in document

      12. The Swedish legislation broadly extends jurisdiction, implicitly
      applying "universal jurisdiction" to the CWC and the acts prohibited by
      it: "[u]nlawful acts relating to chemical weapons will be added to
      those crimes, including hijacking and sabotage, for which Swedish
      courts have jurisdiction abroad. When jurisdiction is extended in this
      way, no limitation is made with respect to nationality. The Penal Code
      thus extends the application of the prohibition of acts in breach of
      the CWC to any place where a violation is committed, irrespective of
      the nationality of the perpetrator and irrespective of whether the act
      is prohibited under the law of the state in which it was committed."
      (Swed. Prop. Leg. p.  2).
      Go to reference #12 in document

      13. Art. VII, ¶ 4 states:

      [in] order to fulfil its obligations under this Convention, each State
      Party shall designate or establish a National Authority to serve as the
      national focal point for effective liaison with the Organization and
      other States Parties. Each State Party shall notify the Organization of
      its National Authority at the time that this Convention enters into
      force for it.
      Go to reference #13 in document

      14. The range of options is quite dramatic. Japan's legislation
      modifies the responsibilities of its Ministry of International Trade
      and Industry so that it has authority over all matters in connection
      with CWC implementation. (Jap. art. 7). Sweden designates an
      already-existing agency as National Authority: the Ministry of Foreign
      Affairs. The legislation notes that "given that the role actually
      assigned to the authority under the CWC is that of coordinator rather
      than executor, there does not seem to be a need for a new separate
      body." (Swed. Prop. Leg., p. 9). The Australian legislation leaves open
      the possibility of creating a new agency: the Minister is to designate
      an office to be known as the Chemical Weapons Convention Office which
      may be a particular office within the Department or may be a particular
      statutory office established under legislation. (Aust. Pt. 7, Div. 1,
      §86(1)).
      Go to reference #14 in document

      15. The Executive Council requested that the Technical Secretariat make
      available a list of all National Authorities. Fifty-six National
      Authorities were on that list. See List of National Authorities as of
      22 October 1997, OPCW Technical Secretariat, Inspectorate Division,
      Doc. No. S/18/97 (1997).
      Go to reference #15 in document

      16. For example, the South African legislation designates the South
      African Council for Non-Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction to
      be the National Authority. (S.A. Regs., §2(1)). This Council was
      established under South Africa's 1993 Non-Proliferation of Weapons of
      Mass Destruction Act and consists of representatives from numerous
      agencies and industries, including: the Office of Department of Foreign
      Affairs; the Ministry of Defense; the chemical industry; the biological
      industry; the space industry; the nuclear industry; and the Atomic
      Energy Corporation. (S.A. Act # 87, §4(2)). Similarly, the Peruvian
      National Authority, the National Council for the Prohibition of
      Chemical Weapons, is composed of representatives of the Ministry of
      Foreign Affairs; the Ministry of Industry, Tourism, Integration and
      International Trade; the Ministry of the Interior; the Ministry of
      Defense; the Ministry of Justice; the Ministry of Health; the Ministry
      of Public Works; the National Customs Superintendence; and of the
      National Industry Society. (Peru, art. 2). In Argentina, the National
      Authority is the Interministerial Commission for the Prohibition of
      Chemical Weapons composed of one representative from each of a number
      of ministries and institutes. (Arg., §1).
      Go to reference #16 in document

      17. The Finnish approach is unique: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has
      supreme responsibility for management of the CWC's application and
      supervision, but may assign tasks to the Finnish Institute for
      Verification of the Chemical Weapons Convention at the University of
      Helsinki. Moreover, as discussed below, supervision of exports as well
      as licensing authority are specifically delegated to other agencies.
      (Fin. Act #346, §2).
      Go to reference #17 in document

      18. National criminal justice systems consist of different sub-systems,
      most commonly among law enforcement, prosecution, judiciary, and
      corrections. Also, each sub-system may have its own separate
      bureaucratic and administrative units. Often, these sub-systems are
      self-contained entities with their own peculiar bureaucratic and
      administrative exigencies and their own life. This fragmentation leads
      to each sub-system protecting its own interests, methods, goals, and
      purpose which makes integration difficult. Ultimately, this leads to
      the whole criminal justice system's fragmentation. Conversely, the
      inefficiencies of bureaucratic and administrative divisions would not
      hinder potential CWC violators. For a more thorough discussion of the
      effects of bureaucratic sub-systems on the administration of criminal
      justice see M.C. Bassiouni, Report Presented to the Seventh United
      Nations Congress on Crime Prevention and the Treatment of Offenders,
      Aug. 26 - Sept. 6, 1985, done in Milan, Italy, at 40-43, U.N. Doc.
      A/CONF.121/NGO 1.
      Go to reference #18 in document

      19. Some nations specifically recognize their National Authority's
      obligation to communicate directly with the OPCW and other States
      Parties. In South Africa, the National Authority shall serve as a
      national focal point for effective liaison with the organization and
      other States Parties to the CWC. (S.A. Regs., §2(2)). The Argentina
      Decree provides that the Interministerial Commission that is the
      National Authority will be the permanent liaison with the OPCW and
      other States Parties through the diplomatic channels of the Ministry of
      Foreign Affairs, International Trade and Worship. (Arg, §6(a)). It is
      noteworthy that no legislation specifically reserves the right of any
      other agency to communicate with the OPCW or States Parties.
      Go to reference #19 in document

      20. Art. VIII, ¶ 31.
      Go to reference #20 in document

      21. Confidentiality Annex, (A)(2)(e) provides, in pertinent part:
      "Confidential information shall be stored securely at the premises of
      the Organization. Some data or documents may also be stored with the
      National Authority of a State Party. . . ." The subject of confidential
      information under the CWC is discussed fully in Chapter 7.
      Go to reference #21 in document

      22. Verification Annex, pt. II, (C)(23).
      Go to reference #22 in document

      23. Verification Annex, pt. II, (G)(64).
      Go to reference #23 in document

      24. Belarus provides that its National Authority, the Ministry of
      Foreign Affairs, will be responsible for receiving and confirming
      inspection notifications and for deciding matters connected with
      conducting inspections. (Bel. Res. No. 344, art. 1). Argentina also
      specifies that the National Authority will carry out various
      inspection-related functions. (Arg. §7).
      Go to reference #24 in document

      25. Most nations place responsibility for both restricting the
      production of Schedule 1 chemicals and compiling information gathered
      from private industry on the National Authority. For example, the
      Australian legislation sets up an office, the Controller of Permits and
      Notifications, within its National Authority (the Chemical Weapons
      Convention Office) to control the issuing of permits by reviewing
      applications and recommending grants or denials. (Aust. Pt. 7, Div. 2,
      §90). The Director of the Chemical Weapons Convention Office receives
      all information from private industry and may request that more
      information be sent. (Aust. Pt. 4, §§30, 31). Similarly, in Japan, the
      National Authority (the Ministry of International Trade and Industry)
      receives all declarations (Japan, Ch. 4, arts. 24-29) and issues all
      permits relating to Schedule 1 chemicals. (Japan, Ch. 3, art. 4(1) and
      art. 10(1)). Both the German and Korean legislation take a partially
      distinctive approach. The German legislation provides that the Federal
      Foreign Office transmit data to the OPCW and receives it from them,
      implying that it is the National Authority (Ger., art. 6(3)); permits,
      however, are granted and controlled by the Federal Export Control
      Office. (Ger., art. 5(1)). In Korea, the Minister of Foreign Affairs is
      responsible for cooperating and negotiating with the OPCW and other
      States Parties (Korea, Ch. I, art. 4), but regulation of Schedule 1
      chemicals is controlled by the Minister of Trade, Industry, and Energy.
      (Korea, Ch. II, art. 5). Similarly, in Finland, the National Agency for
      Medicines, not the National Authority, is the licensing authority for
      Schedule 1 chemicals. (Fin. Act #346, §2).
      Go to reference #25 in document

      26. The Australian legislation, for example, stresses that one of the
      primary functions of the Director of the Chemical Weapons Convention
      Office is to "facilitate the inspection of premises in Australia."
      (Aust. pt. 7, 87(c)). In South Africa, all responsibilities relating to
      verification activities are given to the National Authority. (S.A.
      Regs., §§2, 6). Romania's National Authority (the National Agency for
      the Control of Strategic Exports and of the Prohibition of Chemical
      Weapons) "ensures, together with other public authorities involved, the
      conditions needed for carrying out international verification."
      (Romania, art. 4(j)).
      Go to reference #26 in document

      27. For example, the Korean legislation designates the Minister of
      Foreign Affairs as responsible for cooperation and negotiation with the
      OPCW and other States Parties; the Chemical Weapons Convention Policy
      Council, established under the jurisdiction of the Minister, is
      responsible for the consideration and coordination of policies relating
      to implementation (Korea, Ch. I, art. 4); yet other agencies and bodies
      have CWC responsibilities, including the Minister of Trade, Industry,
      and Energy (import/export permits) (Korea, Ch. III, arts. 11, 12) and a
      "central administrative agency" (charged with facilities subject to
      inspection). (Korea, Ch. V, arts. 14-16). This agency will take
      necessary measures for inspections in cooperation with the National
      Authority (the Minister of Foreign Affairs).
      Go to reference #27 in document

      28. The German legislation provides that the public prosecutor and
      administrative agency may conduct penal investigations regarding
      international trade undertaken by the main customs offices or the
      customs investigation offices. (Ger., art. 20(1)).
      Go to reference #28 in document

      29. In Japan, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the primary CWC
      authority, has considerable experience and expertise as to controlling
      the import/export of chemicals. The Japanese legislation does require,
      however, that the Ministry of Industry and Trade work with the
      Prefectural Public Safety Commission with regard to the transport of
      chemicals. (Japan, Ch. 3, art. 17). The Korean legislation specifies
      that the control of import/export permits should, similarly, be handled
      by the Minister of Trade, Industry, and Energy, but, by contrast, its
      National Authority is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. (Korea, Ch. III,
      arts. 11, 12). The Italian legislation reverses this allocation of
      authority by empowering the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Crafts to
      oversee activities carried out on the national territory, whereas
      transfers of chemicals shall be overseen by the Ministry of Foreign
      Trade. (Italy, art. 3(2)). The Finnish legislation splits authority
      somewhat differently, specifying that the Ministry of Trade of Industry
      is responsible for the export supervision required under the CWC, but
      the Ministry of Defense is responsible for the export and transit of
      defense material. (Fin. Act #346, §2). The Argentina decree authorizes
      the National Authority to require the participation of the National
      Sensitive and War Material Exports Control Commission in all issues
      related to the import/export of chemical substances. (Arg., §7(l)).
      Go to reference #29 in document

      30. Both the Australian legislation (Aust., Pt. 2, §13) and the Czech
      legislation (Czech Act, §4) impose such a requirement. The Australian
      legislation is subjective, requiring that the government be notified by
      any person who "finds a substance or article . . . that the person
      believes may be a chemical weapon." The Czech legislation, in contrast,
      is objective, imposing the obligation to inform the government on
      "[a]ny person finding or having a justified suspicion of chemical
      weapons finding. . ." (emphasis added).
      Go to reference #30 in document

      31. The Australian legislation (Aust., Pt. 2, §13(1)) provides for
      imprisonment for up to one year for violating the reporting
      requirement. The Czech legislation (Czech Act, §32(3)(a)) imposes a
      fine of up to CZK 1,000,000 for failing to comply with its analogous
      obligation.
      Go to reference #31 in document

      32. The Australian legislation (Aust., Pt. 2, §14), the Malta
      legislation (Malta, §6), the New Zealand legislation (N.Z., Pt. II,
      §7), the South African legislation (S.A. Act #87, §16), and the United
      Kingdom legislation (U.K., §5(2)-(4)) all permit the government to
      seize chemical weapons without requiring a prior related conviction. In
      Australia, Malta, and New Zealand, the government need not obtain a
      warrant prior to seizure. In both Australia and Malta, a person from
      whom an alleged chemical weapon has been seized is entitled to seek an
      appropriate remedy from a court (e.g., return of the item if it is not,
      in fact, a chemical weapon). In contrast, the United Kingdom
      legislation requires a warrant to be issued by a judge prior to
      seizure; this legislation also provides for return of any alleged
      chemical weapon that has not been destroyed because it does not meet
      the conditions contained in the warrant authorizing destruction (U.K.,
      §§6(7), 7(5)).
      Go to reference #32 in document

      33. See the Canadian legislation (Can., §23), the German legislation
      (Ger., art. 19(1)), the Malta legislation (Malta, §13), and the South
      African legislation (S.A. Act # 87, §26(2)).
      Go to reference #33 in document

      34. See the Canadian legislation (Can., §23), the Czech legislation
      (Czech Act, §4(2)), the Malta legislation (Malta, §5(3)(iv)), and the
      New Zealand legislation (N.Z., §7(c)).
      Go to reference #34 in document

      35. The Australian legislation (Aust., Pt. 2, §14(7)), the South
      African legislation (S.A. Act # 87, §§17(1), 18-19), and the United
      Kingdom legislation (U.K., §§ 5-8) provide for chemical weapons
      destruction and include specific procedures whereby persons may obtain
      court review of the pending destruction of alleged chemical weapons
      that the government has seized. The United Kingdom legislation (U.K.,
      §8) provides for compensation to a person whose property was
      erroneously thought to be chemical weapons and subsequently destroyed,
      provided that the person was not notified of the pending destruction
      beforehand.
      Go to reference #35 in document

      36. In the Czech Republic, the owner or holder of chemical weapons is
      required to dispose of them in a manner approved by the government.
      (Czech Act, §4(2)-(3)). The South African legislation permits the
      government to "recover costs incurred in the seizure, safekeeping or
      disposal of any controlled goods . . . from any person who has been
      found guilty of an offence under this Act with regard to such goods . .
      . ." (S.A. Act #87, §17(3). In the United Kingdom the government "may
      recover from a responsible person any costs reasonably incurred" in the
      course of destroying a chemical weapon. (U.K., §§6(6), 7(10)).
      Go to reference #36 in document

      37. The Czech legislation provides for reporting the presence of and
      destroying chemical weapons and chemical weapons production facilities.
      (Czech Act, §§4,5).
      Go to reference #37 in document

      38. See The Canadian legislation (Can., §23), the German legislation
      (Ger., art. 19(1)), the Malta legislation (Malta, §13), and the South
      African legislation (S.A. Act #87, §26(2)). The Canadian and South
      African legislation also state that anything confiscated under this
      authority may be "disposed of" by the government, whereas the German
      and Maltese legislation do not specifically state what the government
      can do following such confiscation.
      Go to reference #38 in document

      39. See the elaborate scheme provided by United Kingdom legislation
      (U.K., §§ 11-18).
      Go to reference #39 in document

      40. CWC, art. VI, ¶ 1.
      Go to reference #40 in document

      41. According to Decision: The Meaning of "Production" in the Context
      of Schedule 1 Production Facilities Covered Under Article VI, OPCW
      Conference of States Parties, 1st Sess. (Agenda Item 47), Annex, Doc.
      No. C-I/Dec.43 (16 May 1997):

          (a) the "acquisition" of Schedule 1 chemicals includes their
          extraction from natural sources;
          (b) for Schedule 1 chemicals that are normally not produced in the
          terms of the Convention but are isolated by processing (e.g.
          toxins), extraction and isolation of Schedule 1 chemicals above the
          declaration threshold shall be undertaken only in declared Schedule
          1 facilities; and
          (c) any facility that produces Schedule 1 chemicals above the
          declaration threshold through chemical synthesis or
          extraction/isolation will have to be declared and verified under
          Part VI of the Verification Annex.

      Go to reference #41 in document

      42. Verification Annex, pt. VI, (C)(8).
      Go to reference #42 in document

      43. Id. (10).
      Go to reference #43 in document

      44. Art. II, ¶ 9(b).
      Go to reference #44 in document

      45. Verification Annex, pt. VI, (C)(11)-(12).
      Go to reference #45 in document

      46. Id. (7).
      Go to reference #46 in document

      47. Australia, Japan, the Czech Republic, and Finland each have
      elaborate permit systems that apply to any facilities having chemicals
      regulated by the CWC. The Australian legislation authorizes the
      Controller of Permits and Notifications, set up within the Chemical
      Weapons Convention Office, to regulate CWC chemicals. (Aust. Pt. 3(A),
      Div. 1 & 2). In Japan, the legislation places responsibility on the
      National Authority, the Ministry of International Trade and Industry.
      (Japan, Ch. 3). Each nation's legislation discusses: applications for
      permits, granting of permits, renewals, conditions, variations,
      transfers, revocations, and notice of ministerial decisions relating to
      permits. The Czech legislation restricts licenses to a legal entity
      having its seat on Czech territory and a responsible representative
      with a clean criminal record. The procedures to apply for a license and
      the conditions for granting, terminating, and modifying it are set
      forth in detail. (Czech Act, §§(9)-(15)). The Finnish legislation
      requires that the production, acquisition, retention, or use of
      Schedule 1 chemicals be licensed by the National Agency for Medicines.
      (Fin. Act 346, §4). Other States Parties, notably Canada, Germany, New
      Zealand, and South Africa, authorize an agency to establish relevant
      regulations, but do not specify permit requirements.
      Go to reference #47 in document

      48. The Korean legislation provides that permission to produce should
      not be granted if: a person has, within 3 years, been subject to permit
      cancellation; is incompetent or quasi-incompetent; has been adjudicated
      bankrupt; has been sentenced to punishment in violation of the Act
      within two years; or is under suspension due to violation of the Act. A
      permit should be canceled or suspended if the applicant: falls under
      any of the categories mentioned above; has obtained permission by false
      or illegal means; alters the permit; or violated the Act. (Korea, Ch.
      II, art. 6, 8). See also Australia (revocation of a permit shall occur
      if the permit holder is convicted of an offense or contravenes a
      condition subject to which the permit is granted). (Aust. Pt. 3, Div.
      1, §25(1)).
      Go to reference #48 in document

      49. The declaration shall include the following information:

          "(a) the chemical name, structural formula, and Chemical Abstracts
          Service registry number, if assigned; and
          (b) the quantity acquired from other States or transferred to other
          States Parties. For each transfer the quantity, recipient and
          purpose shall be included."

      Verification Annex, pt. VI, (B)(6).
      Go to reference #49 in document


      50. Verification Annex, pt. VII, (A)(8)(e)(iii).
      Go to reference #50 in document

      51. Id. (A)(1).
      Go to reference #51 in document

      52. The recipient State must certify, in relation to the transferred
      chemicals:

          "(a) that they will only be used for purposes not prohibited;
          (b) that they will not be re-transferred;
          (c) their types and quantities;
          (d) their end-use(s); and
          (e) the name(s) and address(es) of the end-user(s)."

      Id. (C)(32).
      Go to reference #52 in document


      53. Verification Annex, pt. VIII, (A)(1). Plant site declarations need
      not include information on exported Schedule 3 chemicals.
      Go to reference #53 in document

      54. Article VIII, ¶ 22, states:

      [t]he Conference [of the States Parties] shall not later than one year
      after the expiry of the fifth and the tenth year after the entry into
      force of [the CWC], and at such other times within that time period as
      may be decided upon, convene in special session to undertake reviews of
      the operation of [the CWC].
      Go to reference #54 in document

      55. Most nations require that a permit or license is required to import
      or export a chemical and provide that importers and exporters of
      scheduled chemicals must notify proper authorities about their
      activities. In Japan, a person who exported or imported Scheduled
      chemicals shall report the quantities of those chemicals every year.
      (Japan, Ch. 4, art. 28). See also Canada, Germany, Korea, and New
      Zealand. In addition to national legislation, regional economic unions
      can implement the CWC's restrictions.
      Go to reference #55 in document

      56. Many nations' implementing legislation makes specific reference to
      existing laws and regulations concerning chemical imports and exports.
      For example, New Zealand's law provides, "all the provisions of the
      Customs and Excise Act 1996 that apply with respect to prohibit imports
      and exports . . . shall extend and apply with respect to chemicals
      whose import or export is prohibited under this Act." (N.Z., Pt. II,
      §11).
      Go to reference #56 in document

      57. In Finland, most Schedule 1 chemicals may be exported only with a
      license granted by the Ministry of Defence; ricin and saxitoxin and all
      Schedule 2 chemicals may be exported only if the Ministry of Trade and
      Industry grants an export license. (Fin. Dec. #348, §5).
      Go to reference #57 in document

      58. South Africa has set up an import/export regulatory system separate
      from existing regulations, administered by the South African Council on
      the Non-Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction -- the designated
      National Authority. (S.A. Act # 87. §§5, 6(l)).
      Go to reference #58 in document

      59. South Africa provides that the National Authority may demand an
      "end-use certificate for controlled goods to be transferred to the
      territory of any other country. . . . By requiring that where an
      end-use certificate is demanded by the Council as contemplated, it
      shall be obtained by the applicant from the end-user(s) in the country
      of destination." The legislation also provides that the National
      Authority may demand "a state-to-state assurance from the government of
      the recipient country stating that government undertakes to ensure the
      goods are not used for purposes prohibited under the Convention or in
      any other way for the proliferation of mass destruction." (S.A. Act
      #704, §(4)(a)(c)).
      Go to reference #59 in document

      60. In Japan, an importer must receive approval under law which shall
      not be given unless the eventual delivery is to be to a permitted user
      who "shall confirm the specific chemicals pertaining to the permit or
      use by a certificate of permit of use." Transportation certifications
      are also required. If chemicals are to be transported, the transporter
      shall notify the Prefectural Public Safety Commission and obtain a
      document proving the notification. This transportation certificate may
      include information relating to the date and hour of the transportation
      and the route. Finally, the transporter shall bear the certificate and
      transport in accordance with its conditions. (Japan, Ch. 3, art. 14(3)
      & 17(1), (5)).
      Go to reference #60 in document

      61. Most nations have established penalties for import/export
      violations in their implementing legislation. Some nations establish
      gradations of offenses. For example, in Canada, a person liable on
      summary conviction may be fined up to $5,000 or imprisoned for up to 18
      months; a person liable on conviction on indictment may be fined up to
      $500,000 or imprisoned for up to 5 years. (Can., §20).
      Go to reference #61 in document

      62. Art. XI, ¶ 1.
      Go to reference #62 in document

      63. Art. XI, ¶ 2. Along with Article XI, Preamblular paragraph 9 states
      the States Parties desire to promote free trade in chemicals and
      international cooperation and exchange of scientific and technical
      information
      Go to reference #63 in document

      64. The OPCW has initiated steps to establish a library to facilitate
      the exchange of information relating to economic and technological
      development in the field of chemicals. See Seventh Report of the Expert
      Group on Technical Co-operation and Assistance (PC-XI/B/WP/13) and
      Report of Working Group B (PC-X/B/5 of 6 April 1995, para. 10.2,
      discussed in, R. Deyanov and A. Anastassov, Harmonizing Chemical Trade
      Restraints for Non-Proliferation Purposes: A Case Study, in Future
      Legal Restraints on Arms Proliferation, (J. Dahlitz, ed.) 243, 249
      (1996).
      Go to reference #64 in document

      65. The United Kingdom has enacted the stiffest penalties, providing
      that offenses related to the use, development, production, or
      possession of a chemical weapon or who participates in their transfer
      may be subject to life imprisonment. (U.K., §2(8)).
      Go to reference #65 in document

      66. Most States Parties have a clause in their implementing legislation
      that prohibits conduct in violation of Article I. For example, the
      Canadian legislation provides: "No person shall: develop, produce,
      otherwise acquire, stockpile, or retain a chemical weapon; transfer,
      either directly or indirectly, a chemical weapon to another person; use
      a chemical weapon, engage in military preparations to use a chemical
      weapon; assist, induce, or encourage another person to engage in a
      prohibited activity; or use riot control agents as a method of
      warfare." Contravention of this provision renders a person liable, on
      summary conviction, to a fine up to $5,000 or to imprisonment for up to
      18 months, or both; on conviction on indictment, to a fine up to
      $500,000 or to imprisonment for up to 5 years, or both. (Can., §§6,
      20).
      Go to reference #66 in document

      67. For example, the Australian legislation renders it illegal to fail
      to notify the proper authorities about the suspected presence of a
      chemical weapon; an offender may be imprisoned for up to one year.
      (Aust. Pt. 2, §13(1)).
      Go to reference #67 in document

      68. In Australia, intentional or reckless production, acquisition,
      retention or use of Schedule 1 chemicals without or not in accordance
      with a permit is illegal; an offender may be imprisoned for up to five
      years. (Aust., Pt. 6, §77(1)). The German legislation provides that
      obtaining a permit by threat, bribery, or collusion or by false or
      incomplete information may lead to imprisonment of up to two years.
      (Ger., art. 16(4)). In Japan, the penalty for manufacturing chemicals
      without a permit shall be imprisonment with forced labor for up to 3
      years or a fine of up to 1 million yen. (Japan, Ch. 7, art. 43(a)). In
      Italy, the penalty for taking any action regarding a Schedule 1
      chemical without authorization shall be punished with a prison sentence
      of 4 to 12 years and a fine of 100-500 million lire. (Italy, art. 10).
      Go to reference #68 in document

      69. In Germany, extremely serious cases regarding the import/export of
      chemicals shall be punished by imprisonment of not less than 2 years.
      (Ger., art. 16(3)). The Korean legislation is even stricter: importing
      or exporting a chemical in violation of law can lead to imprisonment
      for up to 5 years or a fine not exceeding 20 million Wons. (Korea, Ch.
      VII, art. 27(2)). In New Zealand, the penalty must be imprisonment for
      up to 1 year or a fine up to $100,000. (N.Z., Pt. II, §10(3)). In
      Italy, unauthorized export of schedule 2 or 3 chemicals is punishable
      with a prison sentence of 2 to 6 years and with a fine of 50 to 250
      million lire. (Italy, art. 10(2)). In Romania, unauthorized import or
      export of Schedule 1 chemicals is punishable by 3-12 years
      imprisonment; for Schedule 2 and 3 chemicals, punishment is 3 months to
      1 year. (Romania, art. 53, 54).
      Go to reference #69 in document

      70. The Australian legislation renders illegal such refusal or failure;
      an offender may be imprisoned for up to one year. (Aust., Pt. 3, Div. 2
      §29(3)). The German legislation similarly prohibits wilful or negligent
      contravention of a notification obligation or the provision of false or
      incomplete information; an offender may be fined up to 100,000 Deutsche
      Marks. (Ger., art. 15(1)). The Korean legislation provides that a
      failure to report or to keep, maintain, and preserve required books
      shall lead to imprisonment for up to 2 years or a fine up to 10 million
      Wons. (Korea, Ch. VII, art. 28). The New Zealand legislation provides
      for a penalty of up to 1 year imprisonment or a fine up to $100,000 for
      refusal or failure to supply required information. (N.Z., Pt. III,
      §14(4). In Romania, failing to submit declarations will incur a fine of
      500,000-10,000,000 lei; submitting declarations late will incur a fine
      of 500,000-2,000,000 Lei. (Romania, art. 55(a), (d)).
      Go to reference #70 in document

      71. The Australian legislation renders illegal the intentional or
      reckless making of false or misleading statements to an authority; an
      offender may be imprisoned for up to 2 years. (Aust., Pt. 6, §80). The
      German legislation directly correlates such conduct to Germany's
      international status: a person may be imprisoned for up to 5 years for
      "substantially jeopardizing the foreign relations of the Federal
      Republic of Germany in relation to the submission of declarations, the
      giving of false or incomplete information, . . ." (Ger., art. 16(1)).
      The New Zealand legislation provides that making a statement in a
      required document knowingly or recklessly false or misleading shall
      lead to imprisonment for up to 1 year or a fine up to $100,000. (N.Z.,
      Pt. III, §15). The Swiss legislation provides that failure to declare
      chemicals or making incomplete declarations may lead to imprisonment or
      a fine up to 1 million francs if the person acts deliberately. (Switz.
      Dec., §4, art. 9(1)(b)).
      Go to reference #71 in document

      72. In Australia, interference with monitoring equipment is illegal; an
      offender may be imprisoned for up to two years. (Aust., Pt. 6, §79). In
      Malta, interference with on-site equipment with the intention of
      affecting adversely its operation may be liable for a fine of Lm10,000
      to Lm100,000 or to imprisonment for 18 months to 15 years. (Malta, §4).
      The Czech legislation makes violation of the obligation to allow
      monitoring equipment to be installed and to operate punishable with a
      fine of up to CZK 1,000,000. (Czech., §32).
      Go to reference #72 in document

      73. The German legislation prohibits a breach of the obligation to
      tolerate inspections or to render assistance in regards to the
      pre-inspection briefing. (Ger., art. 15(1)(4)). The Japanese
      legislation is more comprehensive, providing a fine of up to 300,000
      yen for: failure to notify; transport without a certificate;
      interference with a seal or attachment; failure to make a record;
      refusal, prevention, or challenge of an inspection; non-cooperation
      with an observer; refusal, prevention, or challenge of a seal or
      attachment; and failure to answer inquiries. (Japan, Ch. 7, art. 45).
      The New Zealand legislation explicitly provides that wilfully failing
      to comply with directions for facilitating an inspection shall lead to
      a fine up to $100,000; obstructing, hindering, resisting or deception
      regarding an international inspection shall lead to imprisonment for up
      to 6 months or a fine up to $20,000. (N.Z., Pt. IV, 20(2, 26(1)). The
      Italian legislation provides that all those who hamper the conduct of
      an inspection shall be punished with a prison sentence of 2 to 5 years.
      (Italy, art. 12 (1)).
      Go to reference #73 in document

      74. The Australian legislation speaks to these issues in detail: the
      "state of mind" of a corporate body can be established by showing that
      the conduct was engaged in by a director, servant, or agent of the
      corporate body within the scope of his actual or apparent authority. If
      the wrongful conduct was engaged in on behalf of the corporate body or
      with the consent of a corporate officer or agent, the conduct is taken
      to have been engaged in by the corporate body unless the corporate body
      establishes that it took reasonable precautions and exercised due
      diligence to avoid the conduct. (Aust., Pt. 1, §9). The Korean
      legislation provides that a corporate entity shall be liable if its
      representative or agent commits a crime under its implementing
      legislation. (Korea, Ch. VII, art. 20). In Malta, if a director,
      manager, secretary or similar officer commits an offense on behalf of
      the economic interests of a legal person, that legal person shall be
      liable together with the actor. (Malta, §4).
      Go to reference #74 in document

      75. The United Kingdom legislation provides that where an offense is
      committed by a corporate body and is proved to have been committed with
      the consent or connivance of, or to be attributable to any neglect on
      the part of a director, manager, secretary, or other similar officer,
      or any person purporting to act in any such capacity, he as well as the
      corporate body shall be guilty of that offence. (U.K., §31(3)). In
      Romania, "leaders of legal persons are obliged to ensure the compliance
      with the provisions of this Act and to establish, in this respect, the
      duties for subordinated staff." (Romania, art. 49).
      Go to reference #75 in document

      76. The German legislation provides that a person obligated to give
      information shall be allowed to refuse answers to certain questions
      which would make the person himself or a member of his family liable to
      criminal prosecution or administrative proceedings. The person shall be
      instructed about his right to withhold information. (Ger., art. 10(3)).
      Go to reference #76 in document

      77. The New Zealand legislation provides that a person is not excused
      from answering a question or giving information on the ground of
      self-incrimination, but a self-incriminating statement is not
      admissible as evidence in criminal proceedings against that person
      except on a charge of perjury in relation to that statement. (N.Z., Pt.
      V, §28).
      Go to reference #77 in document

      78. The South African legislation explicitly provides that the Council
      may direct an inspector to seize all controlled goods for which a
      permit is needed but unobtained; all controlled goods that do not
      comply with a permit; all controlled goods, and any book, document,
      data, or thing, which may afford evidence of any offence. (S.A. Act
      #87, §16(1)). See also Malta, §(6).
      Go to reference #78 in document

      79. In Australia, any forfeited item can be taken before a court which
      must order it either condemned or returned; notice of the inquiry must
      be given to the interested person. If a court convicts a person of an
      offense, any substance or article used or involved in the offense's
      commission may be forfeited. (Aust., Pt. 6, §81). In South Africa, any
      person whose property has been seized may appeal to the Minister;
      disposal must be postponed until the completion of the appeals process.
      Moreover, the affected person may demand that the reasons for a
      decision be furnished in writing; the person may then apply to a
      division of the Supreme Court to review the decision. (S.A. Act #87,
      §§18(1), 17(2), 19.
      Go to reference #79 in document

      80. In Korea, a person whose permit is to be canceled must be given an
      opportunity to express his opinion in advance. (Korea, Ch. VI, art.
      22).
      Go to reference #80 in document

      81. Legal assistance provisions contained in broadly-negotiated
      multilateral conventions provide excellent examples of widely accepted
      norms. Two treaties stand out in the sphere of legal assistance in
      penal matters: the 1988 United Nations Convention Against Illicit
      Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, U.N. Doc.
      E/Cong.82/15 Corr. 1 and Corr. 2, reprinted in 28 I.L.M. 493, Vienna
      Nov. 25-Dec. 20, 1988, opened for signature Dec. 20, 1988 [hereinafter
      U.N. Drug Convention], and the Council of Europe's 1990 Convention on
      Laundering, Search, Seizure and Confiscation of the Proceeds from
      Crime, done at Strasbourg 8 November 1990, Europ. T.S. No. 141, 30
      I.L.M. 148 (entered into force March 1, 1991) [hereinafter Council of
      Europe Laundering Convention or COE Convention]. Another important
      instrument is the Draft (European) Comprehensive Convention on
      Inter-State Cooperation in the Penal Field, reprinted in, Draft
      (European) Comprehensive Convention on Inter-State Cooperation in the
      Penal Field, reprinted in, Council of Europe, European Committee in
      Crime Problems, Committee of Experts on the Operation of European
      Conventions in the Penal Field: Summary Report, AOC10.93 (Strasbourg,
      22 March 1993) [hereinafter Comprehensive Convention].

      The United Nations' model treaties on interstate cooperation contain
      widely agreed-upon provisions that states can adopt in bilateral and
      multilateral conventions. See Model Treaty on Extradition, G.A. Res.
      45/116, U.N. GAOR, 45th Sess., Supp. No. 49A, at 211, U.N. Doc. A/45/49
      (1991); Model Treaty on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters, G.A.
      Res. 45/117, U.N. GAOR, 45th Sess., Supp. No. 49A, at 215, U.N. Doc.
      A/45/49 (1991) [hereinafter U.N. Model MLAT], Model Treaty on the
      Transfer of Proceedings in Criminal Matters, G.A. Res. 45/118, U.N.
      GAOR, 45th Sess., Supp. No. 49A, at 219, U.N. Doc. A/45/49 (1991);
      Model Treaty on the Transfer of Supervision of Offenders Conditionally
      Sentenced or Conditionally Released, G.A. Res. 45/119, U.N. GAOR, 45th
      Sess., Supp. No. 49A, at 221, U.N. Doc. A/45/49 (1991); United Nations,
      Eighth United Nations Congress on the Prevention of Crime and the
      Treatment of Offenders at 103-109, U.N. Doc. A/CONF.144/28/Rev.1
      (1991). For a discussion of all of the above model agreements see
      generally Clark, Crime: The U.N. Agenda on International Cooperation in
      the Criminal Process, 15 Nova L. Rev. 475 (1991).
      Go to reference #81 in document

      82. See Bruce Zagaris, Developments in International Judicial
      Assistance and Related Matters, 18 Den. J. Int'l L. & Pol'y 339, 351-52
      (1990). Requests may be spurned as incident to pre-indictment
      investigations rather than post-indictment criminal adjudications. Alan
      Ellis and Robert L. Pisani, The United States Treaties on Mutual Legal
      Assistance in Criminal Matters, and Dionysios D. Spinellis, Securing
      Evidence Abroad: A European Perspective, in International Crim. Law:
      Procedure (M. Cherif Bassiouni, ed. 1987).
      Go to reference #82 in document

      83. "In effect, there is a very primitive system of bilateral and, in
      some cases, regional cooperation involving small staffs in the various
      ministries of justice that deal with all these various modalities as
      well as they can." M. Cherif Bassiouni, Critical Reflections on
      International and National Control of Drugs, 18 Den. J. Int'l L. &
      Pol'y 311, 332 (1990).
      Go to reference #83 in document

      84. Legal assistance agreements may concern only administrative
      matters. See, e.g., Council of Europe: European Convention on the
      Obtaining Abroad of Information and Evidence in Administrative Matters,
      done at Strasbourg, Mar. 15, 1978, reprinted in 17 I.L.M. 805 (1978);
      Council of Europe: European Convention on the Service Abroad of
      Documents Relating to Administrative Matters, done at Strasbourg, Nov.
      24, 1977, reprinted in 17 I.L.M. 265 (1978); European Convention on
      Mutual Assistance - Administrative Tax Matters, (opened to signature at
      Strasbourg, 25 Jan. 1988) reprinted in 27 I.L.M. 1160 (1980).
      Alternatively, mutual assistance in administrative matters may be
      provided in the context of a treaty ostensibly covering mutual
      assistance in criminal matters. For example, Article 22 of the European
      Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters, ETS No. 30,
      entered into force Jun. 12, 1962 provides for the exchange of
      information from judicial records whether that information pertains to
      criminal or administrative matters. See Ethan A. Nadelmann,
      Negotiations in Criminal Law Assistance Treaties, 33 A.J.I.L. 467
      (1985).
      Go to reference #84 in document

      85. Article 7 of the U.N. Drug Convention typifies a mutual legal
      assistance provision in a multilateral instrument that contemplates
      assistance to enforce a ban on certain substances and activities. The
      Convention requires the "widest measure of mutual legal assistance" in
      investigations, prosecutions and judicial proceedings. Parties can also
      provide any other type of assistance allowed by the requested party's
      domestic law. The types of mutual legal assistance to be provided
      include: taking evidence or statements from persons, effecting service
      of judicial documents, executing searches and seizures, examining
      objects and sites, providing information and evidentiary items;
      providing records and documents, including bank, financial, corporate
      or business records; and identifying, or tracing proceeds,
      instrumentalities or other things for evidentiary purposes. Article 7
      mandates that parties may not decline assistance based on bank secrecy
      laws, overcoming business and bank confidentiality that had hindered
      previous mutual legal assistance instruments. Article 7 also provides
      that if states are not party to a bilateral or multilateral MLAT, then
      the U.N. Drug Convention's mutual legal assistance provisions will
      apply; even if the states are party to an MLAT, they may agree to apply
      the provisions of the Convention.
      Go to reference #85 in document

      86. See Ellis and Pisani, The United States Treaties on Mutual Legal
      Assistance, in International Criminal Law: Procedure 158-59 (M.C.
      Bassiouni, Ed.)(1986). D. P. Stewart, Internationalizing The War on
      Drugs: The U.N. Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs
      and Psychotropic Substances, 18 Den. J. Int'l L. & Pol'y 387 (1990).
      Go to reference #86 in document

      87. U.N. Model MLAT, Art. 9(a)-(b).
      Go to reference #87 in document

      88. The U.N. Model Treaty on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters
      recognizes as grounds for refusal: (1) the request, if granted, would
      prejudice sovereignty, security, ordre public, or other public
      interest; (2) the offense is of a political or military nature; (3)
      there are substantial bases to believe the request has been made to
      prosecute a person on account of that person's race, sex, religion,
      nationality, ethnic origin, or political opinion or that person's
      position may be prejudiced for any of those reasons; (4) the request
      relates to an offense already subject to investigation or prosecution
      in the requested state; (5) prosecution in the requesting state would
      amount to double jeopardy in the requested state; or (6) the assistance
      requested would contradict the requested state's law and practice had
      the offense been investigated in its own jurisdiction. Other possible
      grounds for refusal might include objections to the nature of the
      penalty (e.g. capital punishment), requirements of double criminality,
      and expiration of applicable statutes of limitation.
      Go to reference #88 in document

      89. See U.N. Model MLAT, Art. 4(4).
      Go to reference #89 in document

      90. Provisions relating to the immobilization and forfeiture of illicit
      proceeds frequently appear in bilateral and multilateral mutual legal
      assistance treaties. An Optional Protocol to the U.N. Model Treaty on
      Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters has been drafted dealing
      exclusively with tracing, freezing, and confiscating the proceeds of
      crime. In addition, provisions requiring the freezing and seizing of
      proceeds as a form of legal assistance can be found in major
      multilateral agreements such as the U.N. Drug Convention.
      Go to reference #90 in document

      91. Under the Laundering Convention, parties must enact domestic
      measures to: (1) confiscate instrumentalities and proceeds of crime;
      (2) identify and trace property liable to confiscation (investigative
      measures); (3) prevent the transfer or disposal of such property
      (provisional measures); (4) empower its courts or authorities to order
      the availability of bank, commercial or financial records and requiring
      that no party may deny a request on grounds of bank secrecy; and (5)
      ensure that persons affected by confiscation or provisional measures
      have effective legal remedies in order to preserve their rights. COE
      Convention, Arts. 2-5.
      Go to reference #91 in document

      92. The Convention adopts the two types of confiscation commonly used
      in Council of Europe States: property confiscation and value
      confiscation. All states have a system of property confiscation whereby
      ownership of property (e.g., items or substances whose possession is
      itself illegal, instrumentalities used in the offense, indirect or
      direct proceeds from the offense, or substituted property) is
      transferred to the state. Under value confiscation, the state can
      require payment of a sum of money related to the value of the proceeds;
      if payment is not obtained, the requested party may realize the claim
      on any property available (whether legally or illegally obtained) for
      that purpose.
      Go to reference #92 in document

      93. Article 18(2)-(4) of the COE Convention should be consulted for
      other grounds for refusal relating to confiscation requests.
      Go to reference #93 in document

      94. Jurisdiction can be predicated on any of five theories accepted
      under international law: territorial, active personality, passive
      personality, protected interest, or universal. (For further discussion
      of this issue see Chapter 1.)
      Go to reference #94 in document

      95. There are two ways to define extraditable offenses. In some
      treaties, the crimes for which extradition will be permitted are
      actually enumerated. In other treaties, and according to the practice
      of most states, a crime is extraditable if the charged offense is a
      crime in both states ("double criminality"), or if the offense is
      punishable by more than one year in prison. Extraditable offenses can
      also arise from multilateral treaties dealing with a particular subject
      that contain an extradition clause.
      Go to reference #95 in document

      96. For example, see European Convention on the International Validity
      of Criminal Judgments, ETS No. 70 (entered into force Aug. 26, 1974).
      Go to reference #96 in document

      97. The applicability of this form of legal assistance is limited by
      several factors. First, treaties only apply to punishments that involve
      a deprivation of liberty ordered by a court; administrative decisions
      are beyond the scope of such an agreement. Second, these treaties are
      usually applied only if the sentenced person has at least six months
      left to serve. Third, a transfer can only be made after the judgement
      is final and all legal remedies are exhausted. Fourth, only a national
      of the receivig state may be transferred. Fifth, the offense that
      underlies the conviction must be a crime in both the transferring and
      the receiving states. Finally, a proposed transfer requires the
      offender's consent because, once transferred, the offender could be
      prosecuted for other offenses in the receiving state, and the offender
      should be aware of the charges and willing to submit to prosecution
      before consenting to a transfer.
      Go to reference #97 in document

      98. For example, the Swiss legislation notes the importance of
      providing legal assistance based on reciprocity: "If the foreign State
      grants reciprocity, they (competent Swiss authorities) may make
      available, on their own initiative or on request, the data . . . where
      the foreign authority provides an assurance that such data: shall be
      processed only for purposes consistent with this order, and will be
      used in criminal proceedings only on condition that they are
      subsequently obtained in accordance with the provisions governing
      international judicial cooperation." However, the Swiss authorities may
      make the relevant data available to international organizations or
      entities, in which case the requirement for reciprocity may be waived.
      It is presumed that the foreign authority will, in this case, simply
      obtain the needed information from the international organization or
      entity. (Switz. Dec., §5, art. 15(3)-(4)).
      Go to reference #98 in document

      99. The following countries have enacted such statutes: Austria, ARHG,
      Act on Extradition and Mutual Assistance, Federal Law Gazette No.
      529/1979; Switzerland, IRSG, Act on International Mutual Assistance in
      Criminal Matters, S.R. 353.1 (January 1, 1983); and Germany, IRG, Act
      on International Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters, Federal Law
      Gazette 1982 I S. 2071 (July 1, 1983).
      Go to reference #99 in document

      100. The Swiss legislation provides that the competent federal
      authorities for implementation, control, crime prevention, and criminal
      proceedings may collaborate with competent foreign authorities and with
      international organisations and entities, and coordinate their
      enquiries to the extent required by the implementation of this order or
      of equivalent foreign requirements and subject to the foreign
      authorities or international organisations or entities being bound by
      official secrecy. They may also request the foreign authorities and
      international organizations or entities to make available relevant
      data. (Switz. Dec., §5, art. 15(1)-(2)).
      Go to reference #100 in document

      101. Declarations are required for any plant which produced, processed
      or consumed during any of the previous three calendar years or is
      anticipated to do so in the next calendar year more than:

          (1) 1 kg of a chemical designated "*" in Schedule 2, part A;
          (2) 100 kg of any other chemical listed in Schedule 2, part A; or
          (3) 1 tonne of a chemical listed in Schedule 2, part B.

      Go to reference #101 in document

      102. This list includes all plant sites that:

       1. produced by synthesis during the previous calendar year more than
          200 tonnes of unscheduled discrete organic chemicals; and
       2. comprise one or more plants which produced by synthesis during the
          previous calendar year more than 30 tonnes of an unscheduled
          discrete organic chemical containing the elements phosphorus,
          sulfur, or fluorine.

      Verification Annex, pt. IX, (A)(1). This list does not include plant
      sites that exclusively produced explosives or hydrocarbons. Id. (A)(2).
      Go to reference #102 in document


      103. In Sweden for example, information concerning Schedule 1 chemicals
      is already required under both the Act Concerning Military Equipment
      and the Ordinance Relating to Strategic Products, which include a
      requirement of declarations from licensees and authorizes the
      government to specify requirements concerning the submission of
      relevant information. (Swed. Act 1992: 1300, §19; Swed. Order
      1994:2060, §22a).
      Go to reference #103 in document

      104. In Finland, the National Authority shall have "the right to obtain
      from other authorities the information necessary for supervision
      (declarations)." (Fin. Act #346, §3).
      Go to reference #104 in document

      105. Again, Sweden is a good example. The need for information for
      declarations of Schedule 2 and 3 chemicals is met by the control
      mechanisms for chemical products constituting health or environmental
      hazards under the Act on Chemical Products, subject to a minor
      adjustment to its scope. (Swed. Prop. Leg., p. 6).
      Go to reference #105 in document

      106. Some nations place responsibility for collecting information on
      the National Authority, see Canada, South Africa, and the United
      Kingdom. But other nations allocate responsibility to other agencies,
      see Japan, Korea, and New Zealand. The Swiss legislation establishes an
      agency to act as a clearinghouse of information: "The Public Prosecutor
      of the Confederation shall ensure the operation of an information
      service responsible for the acquisition, processing, and transmittal of
      the data necessary for the implementation, the prevention of offenses,
      and criminal prosecutions." (Switz. Dec., §5, art. 16).
      Go to reference #106 in document

      107. Many nations' legislation require that private facilities keep
      detailed records regarding all activities involving chemicals, and many
      demand that the records be kept in a specified manner or format. For
      example, the Japanese legislation requires that facilities prepare a
      diary "kept as provided for by order of the Ministry of International
      Trade and Industry." (Japan, Ch. 3, art. 22(2)). The Danish decree
      requires that information be submitted by means of questionnaires
      forwarded by the Danish Agency for Development of Trade and Industry to
      affected enterprises. (Den. Ex. Order #771, Ch. 1, §6).
      Go to reference #107 in document

      108. In Finland, yearly reports must be filed by the end of January.
      (Fin. Dec. 348, §4). The Swedish legislation requires submission of
      declarations by 15 January for the previous year and by 15 September
      for the next year. (Swed. Order 1994: 2060, §§20(1)-(2)).
      Go to reference #108 in document

      109. In some nations, an authorized agency can simply request
      information, obligating persons to comply to the best of their ability.
      For example, the New Zealand legislation provides that the Secretary of
      Foreign Affairs and Trade may, by written notice, require any person to
      give information to the Secretary for the purposes of CWC required
      declarations. (N.Z., Pt. III, §14). See also Canada, Germany, Norway,
      and the United Kingdom.
      Go to reference #109 in document

      110. See e.g., the Romanian legislation, arts. 7-13.
      Go to reference #110 in document

      111. In Japan for example, a permitted manufacturer must prepare a
      diary and record concerning specific chemicals and to provide those
      diaries to the Ministry of International Trade and Industry by
      specified dates. (Japan, Ch.3, art. 22, & Ch. 4, arts. 24-29). In
      Australia, a permitted facility must give to the Director of the
      Chemical Weapons Convention office information concerning chemicals "in
      such form and at such intervals as are prescribed." (Aust. Pt. 4,
      §30(2)). In South Africa, any person who is in control of any activity
      with regard to controlled goods or who has in his possession or custody
      controlled goods must register with the South African Council for the
      Non-Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction; these persons are
      required to make a declaration to the Council relating to chemicals,
      chemical plant sites, or riot control agents. (S.A. Regs, §§3, 4).
      Go to reference #111 in document

      112. E.g., Australia (Aust., Pt. 4, §§30(3), 31(4)); the United Kingdom
      (U.K., §§21(2), 22(3)); and New Zealand (N.Z., Pt. III, §§13(3),
      14(4)).
      Go to reference #112 in document

      113. E.g., Germany (Ger., art. 15(1)(1)).
      Go to reference #113 in document

      114. The Swiss legislation provides that failure to declare as required
      is punishable by imprisonment or a fine not exceeding one million
      francs, unless the failure was a result of negligence, in which case
      the punishment is non-rigorous imprisonment for a term not exceeding
      six months or a fine not exceeding 100,000 francs. (Switz. Dec., §4,
      art. 9).
      Go to reference #114 in document

      115. Most nations penalize non-submission by fines and/or imprisonment:
      Australia - imprisonment for up to one year (Aust., Pt. 4, §31(4));
      Canada - on summary conviction, a fine up to $5,000 or imprisonment for
      up to 18 months, on conviction on indictment, a fine up to $500,000 or
      imprisonment for up to 5 years (Can., §20); Germany - administrative
      fine up to 100,000 Deutsche Marks (Ger., art. 15(1)(1)); Korea-
      imprisonment for up to 2 years or a fine up to 10 million Wons (Korea,
      Ch. VII, art. 28); New Zealand - imprisonment up to one year or a fine
      up to $100,000 (N.Z., Pt. III, §13(3)); United Kingdom - a fine not
      exceeding the statutory maximum (U.K., §§21(2), 22(3)).
      Go to reference #115 in document

      116. CWC, art. VI, ¶¶10-11.
      Go to reference #116 in document

      117. Verification Annex, pt. II, (H)(66).
      Go to reference #117 in document

      118. Verification Annex, pt. VI, (E)(23), (30).
      Go to reference #118 in document

      119. Verification Annex, pt. II, (B)(12). Many nations' implementing
      legislation recognize this requirement. The Australian legislation
      provides: "a national inspector and accompanying Organization inspector
      may install and operate continuous on-site monitoring equipment."
      (Aust., Pt. 5, Div. 2, §39(3)). The Canadian legislation provides that
      an international inspector may, where appropriate, "install, use, and
      maintain . . . monitoring instruments, systems, and seals in a manner
      consistent with the provisions of the Convention." (Can. §13(c)).
      Go to reference #119 in document

      120. Verification Annex, pt. VI, (15).
      Go to reference #120 in document

      121. Plant sites declared after this period shall receive an initial
      inspection within one year after production, processing, or consumption
      is first declared. Id. (16).
      Go to reference #121 in document

      122. Verification Annex, pt. VII, (B)(12)-(15). See § 7.1.2.2 of this
      Manual.
      Go to reference #122 in document

      123. Id. (18).
      Go to reference #123 in document

      124. Regarding chemicals at a facility, risk assessment is based on:

        * toxicity of the scheduled chemicals (precursors or end-products)
          handled there;
        * quantity of scheduled chemicals and their feed stocks stored at the
          site;
        * similarity of chemicals at the facility to Schedule 1 chemicals, as
          well as their lethal or incapacitating properties; and
        * whether the chemicals can be used as precursors for the final stage
          of production of a Schedule 1 chemical.

      The factors in determining risk related to the characteristics of the
      plant site include:

        * process area characteristics such as production capacity, presence
          of equipment able to handle highly toxic materials, enclosed or
          hooded process equipment, and physical layout;
        * personnel considerations, such as background and experience;
        * consistency of extant security measures with declared activities;
        * location of facility, e.g., isolation or proximity to a military
          installation;
        * safety equipment and procedures, particularly those related to
          protective clothing, decontamination equipment, and contamination
          treatment;
        * ease of converting the facility for CW production, storage, or
          filling purposes; and
        * whether the facility is a dedicated multi-purpose facility.

      The risk posed by the nature of activities carried out at the facility
      is determined by:

        * whether scheduled chemicals are produced, processed, or consumed
          there; and
        * which activities not related to declared Schedule 2 chemicals
          actually take place at the facility.

      See generally Decision: Assessment of The Risk Posed by a Schedule 2
      Facility To The Object and Purposes of The Convention. OPCW Conference
      of the States Parties, 1st Sess. (Agenda Item 47.1), Doc. No. C-1/Dec.
      32 (May 1997).
      Go to reference #124 in document


      125. Verification Annex, pt. VII, (B)(21)-(22)
      Go to reference #125 in document

      126. Id. (30).
      Go to reference #126 in document

      127. Id. (29).
      Go to reference #127 in document

      128. The areas that the State Party must allow to be inspected may
      include:

       1. areas where feed chemicals (reactants) are delivered or stored;
       2. areas where manipulative processes are performed upon the reactants
          prior to addition to the reaction vessels;
       3. feed lines from the areas referred to in subparagraphs (1) or (2)
          to the reaction vessels together with any associated valves, flow
          meters, etc.;
       4. the external aspect of the reaction vessels and ancillary
          equipment;
       5. lines from the reaction vessels leading to long or short-term
          storage or to equipment further processing the declared Schedule 2
          chemicals;
       6. control equipment associated with any items listed above;
       7. equipment and areas for waste and effluent handling; and
       8. equipment and areas for disposition of chemicals not up to
          specification.

      Id. (28).
      Go to reference #128 in document


      129. Id. (25).
      Go to reference #129 in document

      130. Verification Annex, pt. II, (E)(39). The inspection mandate "means
      the instructions issued by the Director-General to the inspection team
      for the conduct of a particular inspection." Verification Annex, pt. I,
      (14).
      Go to reference #130 in document

      131. Verification Annex, pt. II, (E)(42). The inspection manual "means
      the compilation of additional procedures for the conduct of inspections
      developed by the Technical Secretariat." Verification Annex, pt. I,
      (15).
      Go to reference #131 in document

      132. Verification Annex, pt. VIII, (B)(12).
      Go to reference #132 in document

      133. "[T]he combined number of inspections shall not exceed three plus
      5 per cent of the total number of plant sites declared by a State Party
      under both this Part and Part IX of this Annex, or 20 inspections,
      whichever of these two figures is lower." Id. (14), (16).
      Go to reference #133 in document

      134. Id. (19). Areas to be inspected may include:

          (a) Areas where feed chemicals (reactants) are delivered or stored;
          (b) Areas where manipulative processes are performed upon the
          reactants prior to addition to the reaction vessel;
          (c) Feed lines as appropriate from the areas referred to in
          subparagraph (a) or subparagraph (b) to the reaction vessel
          together with any associated valves, flow meters, etc.;
          (d) The external aspect of the reaction vessels and ancillary
          equipment;
          (e) Lines from the reaction vessels leading to long- or short-term
          storage or to equipment further processing the declared Schedule 3
          chemicals;
          (f) Control equipment associated with any of the items under
          subparagraphs (a) to (e);
          (g) Equipment and areas for waste and effluent handling;
          (h) Equipment and areas for disposition of chemicals not up to
          specification.

      Id. (23).
      Go to reference #134 in document


      135. See id. (17) & (21).
      Go to reference #135 in document

      136. The South African legislation places all responsibilities relating
      to verification on its National Authority. (S.A. Act #87, §6(3)). By
      contrast, the Korean legislation, while not specifically assigning
      certain inspection-related tasks to particular agencies, anticipates
      cooperation between its National Authority and "a central
      administrative agency who is charge with facilities subject to
      inspection." (Korea, Ch. V, art. 14(2)).
      Go to reference #136 in document

      137. This discussion also applies to inspection assistants. Procedures
      for the designation of inspectors are contained in the Verification
      Annex, pt. II, (A)(1)-(9).
      Go to reference #137 in document

      138. Virtually every nation's legislation provides that inspectors must
      possess and appropriately display a certificate indicating inspection
      powers. Australia's legislation provides that an inspector who fails to
      produce written proof of his/her identify for inspection is not
      entitled to exercise any inspection powers. (Aust., Pt. 5, Div. 2,
      §43). The Canadian legislation takes this idea a step further by
      providing that the minister shall issue to every person who is a member
      of an inspection team of the Technical Secretariat a certificate
      identifying the person by name and indicting the person's status and
      authority to conduct inspections in Canada. (Can., §3(4)).
      Go to reference #138 in document

      139. Verification Annex, pt. X, (B)(1)-(2).
      Go to reference #139 in document

      140. Verification Annex, pt. II, (B)(10). The Romanian legislation
      specifically authorizes the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to confirm
      receipt of the list of inspectors and to take necessary measures to
      provide appropriate visas. (Romania, art. 40).
      Go to reference #140 in document

      141. Id. (11), (15). Along with the inspected State Party, a
      non-inspected State Party must accord the inspection team, as well its
      papers and correspondence and samples and equipment, privileges and
      immunities when transiting its territory.
      Go to reference #141 in document

      142. The United Kingdom legislation contains one of the most in-depth
      provisions relating to the privileges and immunities of inspectors. The
      legislation notes that members of inspection teams and observers shall
      enjoy the same privileges and immunities as are enjoyed by diplomatic
      agents in accordance with the Articles of the Vienna Convention on
      Diplomatic Relations of 1961. Specifically, the United Kingdom
      legislation recognizes that samples and approved equipment carried by
      members of an inspection team shall be inviolable and exempt from
      customs duties and that the privileges and immunities shall be enjoyed
      by inspection team members and observers at any time when they are in
      the United Kingdom in connection with carrying out an inspection or
      while they are in transit to or from the territory of another party to
      the Convention in connection with the carrying out of an inspection
      there. (U.K., §27). The New Zealand legislation more simply provides
      that the pre-existing Diplomatic Privileges and Immunities Act 1968 (as
      inserted by §26 of the New Zealand Nuclear Free Zone, Disarmament, and
      Arms Control Act 1987) shall be amended to include a provision
      conferring privileges and immunities which are required by the CWC to
      persons who will carry out CWC verification inspections. (N.Z., Pt. V,
      §31). Even simpler is the Malta legislation which provides that OPCW
      inspectors shall "enjoy such privileges and immunities as set out . . .
      in the [Verification Annex] of the Convention." (Malta, §5(2)(b)).
      Go to reference #142 in document

      143. Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, 18 April 1962, 23 U.S.
      T. 3227, T.I.A.S. 7502, 500 U.N.T.S. 95 [hereinafter Vienna Convention
      on Diplomatic Relations].
      Go to reference #143 in document

      144. Article 29 of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations
      provides:

      [t]he person of a diplomatic agent shall be inviolable. He shall not be
      liable to any form of arrest or detention. The receiving State shall
      treat him with due respect and shall take all appropriate steps to
      prevent any attack on his person, freedom or dignity.
      Go to reference #144 in document

      145. Article 30, ¶ 1, of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations
      provides:

      "[t]he private residence of a diplomatic agent must enjoy the same
      inviolability and protection as the premises of the mission."

      Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, Art. 30, ¶ 1.

      The inviolability of the premises of the mission are defined in Article
      22 of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, which states:

       1. The premises of the mission shall be inviolable. The agents of the
          receiving State may not enter them, except with the consent of the
          head of the mission.
       2. The receiving State is under a special duty to take all appropriate
          steps to protect the premises of the mission against any intrusion
          or damage and to prevent any disturbance of the peace of the
          mission or impairment of its dignity.
       3. The premises of the mission, their furnishings and other property
          thereon and the means of transport of the mission shall be immune
          from search, requisition, attachment or execution.
          Go to reference #145 in document

          146. Article 30, ¶ 2, of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic
          Relations provides that the diplomats "papers, correspondence, and
          . . . [their] property, shall . . . enjoy inviolability."
          Go to reference #146 in document

          147. Article 31, ¶¶ 1, 2, and 3, of the Vienna Convention on
          Diplomatic Relations states:


       1. A diplomatic agent shall enjoy immunity from the criminal
          jurisdiction of the receiving State. He shall also enjoy immunity
          from its civil and administrative jurisdiction, except in the case
          of:

               (a) a real action relating to private immovable property
               situated in the territory of the receiving State, unless he
               holds it on behalf of the sending State for the purposes of
               the mission;
               (b) an action relating to succession in which the diplomatic
               agent is involved as executor, administrator, heir or legatee
               as a private person and not on behalf of the sending State;
               (c) an action relating to any professional or commercial
               activity exercised by the diplomatic agent in the receiving
               State outside his official function.
       2. A diplomatic agent is not obliged to give evidence as a witness.
       3. No measures of execution may be taken in respect of a diplomatic
          agent except in the cases coming under sub-paragraph (a), (b), and
          (c) of paragraph 1 of this Article, and provided that the measures
          concerned can be taken without infringing the inviolability of his
          person or of his residence.

      Go to reference #147 in document

      148. Article 34 of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations
      states:

      A diplomatic agent shall be exempt from all dues and taxes, personal or
      real, national, regional or municipal, except:

          a. indirect taxes of a kind which are normally incorporated in the
          price of goods or services;
          b. dues and taxes on private immovable property situated in the
          territory of the receiving State, unless he holds it on behalf of
          the sending State for the purposes of the mission;
          c. estate, succession or inheritance duties levied by the receiving
          State, subject to the provision of paragraph 4 of Article 39;
          d. dues and taxes on private income having its source in the
          receiving State and capital taxes on investments made in commercial
          undertakings in the receiving State;
          e. charges levied for specific services rendered;
          f. registration, court or record fees, mortgage dues and stamp
          duty, with respect to immovable property, subject to the provisions
          of Article 23.

      Go to reference #148 in document

      149. Verification Annex, pt. II, (B)(11)(g)-(h).
      Go to reference #149 in document

      150. Verification Annex, pt. II, (C)(27)-(30).
      Go to reference #150 in document

      151. Decision: List of Approved Equipment with Operational Requirements
      and Technical Specifications, OPCW Conference of the States Parties,
      1st Sess. (Agenda Item 24), Doc. No. C-1/Dec. 71 (May 1997).
