http://www.100.nist.gov/ph_postwar.htm

      Celebrating our Centennial NIST at 100: Foundations for Progress


                                    1949
                      The “Atomic Age” of Time Begins

   Time took on a new look and a new role at mid-century, and NIST, which
   maintains the nation’s primary time standards, played a leading role in
                               the transition.

   From the pendulum to the quartz clock, timekeeping had improved in the
    past. But NIST’s operation of the first atomic clock in 1949 led to
   giant leaps in accuracy. Atomic clocks are based on the resonances, or
   vibrations, of atoms or molecules. (Some have called NIST’s innovation
    a molecular clock, because it was based on resonances in the ammonia
    molecule, which contains four atoms. But the principle is the same.)
    NIST’s achievements in this field later were cited as advancing the
                 research of three 1989 Nobel Prize winners.

    The performance of the Institute’s original clock was only slightly
    better than existing standards, but the precedent was set. Attention
    then shifted to the cesium atom, which by 1960 was incorporated into
   the world’s official timekeeping system. Cesium clocks now keep time to
   an accuracy of about one second in 20 million years. These advances in
     performance of atomic clocks have supported the development of new
   technologies, such as high data rate telecommunications and the Global
       Positioning System. Accurate timekeeping will become even more
    important in the future as the speed of electronic systems increases,
      requiring commensurate improvements in levels of synchronization.

   Today, NIST’s atomic clocks are used for many purposes, including the
     synchronization of Los Angeles traffic lights and guidance of deep
    space probes. The National Association of Securities Dealers requires
    that all electronic transactions be stamped with a time traceable to
    NIST. An Internet time service that allows users to synchronize their
   computers’ internal clocks with NIST’s atomic clock was receiving 30
     million “hits” per day as of mid-2000, and the number was growing
                                  rapidly.

                          Back to The Postwar Years


                           Black Vertical Divider


                                Atomic Clock

                                    1950
                    Safeguarding the Charters of Freedom

    To guard against deterioration, the original parchment manuscripts of
     the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution, and the Bill of
   Rights were sealed using a preservation technique developed at NIST in
     cooperation with the Libbey-Owens-Ford Glass Company and Library of
     Congress. The helium-filled cases are still in use. Today, NIST is
      involved in a project with the National Archives to transfer the
   Charters of Freedom to argon-filled enclosures, allowing for the use of
   advanced measurement techniques to monitor conditions inside the glass.

                          Back to The Postwar Years
                               [Weldingsm.jpg]

                                    1953
                          NIST Is Tested—And Wins

     Testing of commodities purchased by the federal government, a very
      small part of NIST’s work after World War II, led to one of the
   Institute’s biggest controversies and some of the earliest debates on
                    the role of science in public policy.

    Before the episode ended with the NIST’s vindication in 1953, there
   were attacks on the Institute’s technical work, investigations by two
                                 high-level
    committees, hearings before a U.S. Senate committee, debates over the
     definition of scientific truth, the forced resignation of Director
     Allen Astin (later reinstated) and a staff mutiny over it, and the
             resignation of an Assistant Secretary of Commerce.

    It all began innocently enough. As part of its long-term research on
    batteries, NIST tested batteries and additives for other units of the
    government. No additive was ever found to be beneficial. NIST did not
   ordinarily name commercial products, endorse them, or permit its tests
   to be used for advertising, but a series of events (including a request
      from a senator) converged to require tests of a battery additive
                             marketed as AD-X2.

       The manufacturer claimed AD-X2 would improve lead-acid battery
      performance and, under some circumstances, revive a dead battery.
   NIST’s laboratory tests found the product was not effective. But there
   were many satisfied users, and it was suggested that the government was
    persecuting a small manufacturer, which incidentally had some strong
   allies. For a time, these allies appeared to include the Massachusetts
              Institute of Technology, which ran its own tests.

    After many tense months, the controversy was finally resolved when a
    committee of the National Academy of Sciences—the nation’s highest
   scientific authority—supported NIST’s findings on AD-X2. Furthermore,
   the Academy found that the Institute’s work on this case had advanced
    the science of electrochemistry by at least a decade. Through it all,
    NIST maintained its integrity in the face of intense public scrutiny.

                          Back to The Postwar Years


                                [adx2sm.jpg]

                                    1953
                      Better Dental Tools and Materials

   Nobody likes visiting the dentist, but it could be worse. For instance,
    getting a cavity fixed would take longer and be more uncomfortable if
       those drills were much slower, as they were in the 1940s before
   researchers at NIST made the prototype for today’s high-speed drills.

       As part of an Institute collaboration with the American Dental
    Association (ADA), researchers developed the hydraulic turbine dental
         handpiece, which attained a speed of 61,000 revolutions per
   minute—almost 10 times that of a conventional drill—without vibrating
    or overheating. This 1953 invention inspired the later development of
   air turbines, which set the stage for even higher speeds. The hydraulic
   handpiece, which was given to the Smithsonian Institution in 1964, had
   an almost unimaginable benefit-to-cost ratio of 27,000 to 1, according
     to an estimate made in the 1960s. Not to mention happier patients.

   The drill was just one product of the collaboration with the ADA, which
   began in 1928 and continues today. In the 1940s, researchers found the
    first explanation of post-operative pain (delayed excessive expansion
    of dental amalgam), thus making it possible to eliminate the pain. In
     the 1950s, the team developed a panoramic X-ray machine (see photo
     above), which made it possible to take a picture of the whole mouth
    with only one exposure, significantly reducing the radiation doses to
       oral tissues. It remains in use today by the military and many
   dentists. And the development of composite filling materials and dental
      adhesives has been important both aesthetically and economically.

                          Back to The Postwar Years
                                 Dental Xray

                                    1953
                       Pioneering Modular Electronics

    Tinkertoy meant a lot more than child’s play at NIST in 1953, when a
   project named after the toy construction sets mechanized the production
    of modular electronics, a step toward the ubiquitous microelectronics
                                  of today.

   Project Tinkertoy was intended to help ensure national preparedness in
    emergencies by drastically reducing production lead time and enabling
   rapid conversions from civilian to military products. The Navy selected
   NIST to lead the project because it offered the “most advanced state of
    processed circuitry.” The Institute already had developed a modular
     design concept and engaged in pioneering work in printed electronic
                                  circuits.

   In Tinkertoy, automatic machinery attached basic electronic components
   to ceramic wafers and stacked the wafers into modules, which then were
   assembled into complete units. The modules were compact and reliable—so
     rugged that a demonstration radio could be flung against a wall and
      still play. NIST performed the basic research and development and
      designed a pilot plant; various companies designed and built the
      equipment and ran the production line. The manufacturing cost was
        estimated to be 44 percent lower than conventional processes.

      Dubbed the outstanding development of 1953 by the journal of the
    Society of Manufacturing Engineers, the Tinkertoy process was used to
      make sonar buoys for detecting enemy submarines. The project also
   contributed to the development of the first metal-ceramic vacuum tubes.
   But the fabrication equipment was complex, and the concept was quickly
   supplanted by transistors and printed circuit boards, to which some of
              the individual Tinkertoy components were applied.

                          Back to The Postwar Years

                                    1954
                 Profitable Ideas: The First Reading Machine

   Jacob Rabinow could turn just about any idea into a functional piece of
       equipment. So it was with his reading machine, one of about 230
     inventions patented by the NIST engineer and the forerunner of the
     optical scanners used by banks and post offices today. Cited as his
    best-known invention by the Lemelson-MIT Prize program, which honored
     Rabinow in 1998 for his lifetime achievements, the original reading
       machine is on permanent display at the Smithsonian Institution.

      Rabinow got the idea for machine reading, or “optical character
    recognition,” when a friend went blind in the late 1930s. Later, he
     convinced his boss at NIST to let him build a reading machine. The
        resulting machine read the alphanumeric output of a portable
    typewriter, pioneering the “best match” approach by comparing each
    character on a printout to the entire alphabet and determining which
   letter was most similar. “It enabled us to read very poor printing that
            could not be read by any other means,” Rabinow said.

   The machine read one character per minute—to the cheering of onlookers.
   By comparison, today’s machines can recognize up to 10,000 characters
                                 per second.

   The reading machine is just one of many novel technologies nurtured by
    NIST, which long has encouraged innovation by industry and the public
   as well as its own staff. NIST took on an official role in encouraging
   private-sector innovation in 1940, when it was assigned to support the
    National Inventors Council (NIC), formed by the Secretary of Commerce
      to promote defense-oriented invention. NIST performed evaluations
       through 1964. During those years, more than 340,000 ideas were
    evaluated by the NIC, and many were referred to defense agencies for
  support; the mercury battery for “walkie-talkies” was a notable result.
      From 1964 through 1974 NIST provided an information and referral
                           service for inventors.

      Legislative action in 1975 again assigned the Institute a similar
   official role, this time in encouraging energy-related invention. From
     1975 through 1998 under the Energy-Related Inventions Program, NIST
   solicited and evaluated more than 32,000 ideas, recommending more than
    700 for U.S. Department of Energy support. By 1998, NIST- recommended
   inventions reaching the marketplace had generated more than $1 billion
    in sales and saved sufficient energy to light 10 million homes for a
                                    year.

                          Back to The Postwar Years



                                    1956
                             The Fall of Parity

   The rules of physics were rewritten when a difficult experiment at NIST
    showed, strikingly and convincingly, that in at least one fundamental
    physical process, the world is distinguishable from its mirror image.
    Physicists long had assumed the opposite, constructing their theories
      so that the corresponding mathematical property, parity, remained
     unaltered in all subatomic processes. Thus, this experiment brought
   about “the fall of parity” from the ranks of well-conserved physical
        quantities such as energy and momentum. The results verified
   theoretical work in quantum mechanics that won physicists at Princeton
   and Columbia universities the Nobel Prize in physics. The experiment at
    NIST was conducted by (pictured, left to right) Ralph Hudson, Ernest
    Ambler, Dale Hoppes, Raymond Hayward, and (not pictured) Chien-Shiung
                         Wu of Columbia University.

                          Back to The Postwar Years


                               Fall of Parity

                                    1957
                    Pioneering Computer Launches New Era

   Humming along at 1 megahertz and offering 6,000 bytes of storage, NISTs
   Standards Eastern Automatic Computer (SEAC) was a marvel at the dawn of
      the computer era, introducing many firsts and demonstrating early
     applications of the technology that defined the late 20th century.
        Dedicated in 1950, SEAC was the first operational, internally
       programmed digital computer in the United States. It served the
     government for more than 13 years, handling tasks such as Air Force
   planning, Social Security accounting, and checking of calculations for
                      the design of the hydrogen bomb.

   Its engineering innovations included electric typewriters and retooled
     teletype machines as input-output mechanisms, new memory mechanisms
   using ultrasonic technology, and a graphical display that produced the
   first computerized image in 1957. To input that image, NIST researchers
   built the first scanner, a simple rotating drum to trace variations in
                 intensity over the surfaces of photographs.

    When a 5 centimeter (2 inch) square picture of NIST engineer Russell
      Kirschs son was scanned into SEAC, it launched the field of image
   processing, which today has applications ranging from satellite imaging
      to desktop publishing. Kirsch also demonstrated early artificial
    intelligence and timesharing applications and wrote the first picture
   grammar (programming rules for combining pieces of a picture to form a
                              complete image).

                          Back to The Postwar Years



                                SEAC Computer

                                    1958
                    Achievements in Spectroscopy Pay Off

      Much of what is known about the universe has been learned through
      spectroscopy, a technique for identifying and characterizing the
         substances present in stars and other objects based on the
   characteristics of the emitted light, which depend on the energy levels
      of the atoms. And much of what is known about spectroscopy can be
    attributed to NIST. Among its greatest contributions is Atomic Energy
   Levels, three volumes published between 1949 and 1958, which are still
   considered models of authenticated, verified, consistent data. Earlier
     compilations were incomplete and inadequate for many applications.

    NIST’s highly reliable data had a swift impact on, for example, the
     development of gas lasers. Arthur Schawlow, who with Charles Townes
    wrote the 1958 paper that launched the laser field, credited the data
     with assisting the pair in their early selection of materials that
    could lase. “The [NIST] tables have been, and are continuing to be,
        essential tools in the search for new laser materials and new
    wavelengths,” Schawlow wrote in 1971. (Both men won Nobel Prizes for
     other scientific achievements.) In all, the NIST volumes have been
    cited by others about 13,000 times, more than enough to be considered
                           “citation classics.”

     The data were compiled by Charlotte Moore, one of few professional
    women at NIST in those days, with great persistence, initiative, and
     attention to detail. Under the direction of William F. Meggers, she
     gathered published and unpublished data from many sources and, when
    data were missing, located the appropriate experts and asked them for
    help. Her work served as a model for NIST’s more recent atomic data
   compilations, which have included a fourth volume of energy levels for
                 the rare-earth elements published in 1978.

                          Back to The Postwar Years

                                    1959
                         A Glittering Research Tool

    A NIST research team invented the diamond-anvil apparatus, which can
         compress samples to ultrahigh pressures. The designers used
    single-crystal diamonds (confiscated by the U.S. Customs Service) as
        the compressing surfaces because of their great hardness and
      transparency to light. Similar devices, together with a technique
    developed at NIST for measuring pressures inside the sample chamber,
   are used today by scientists worldwide. Applications include studies of
     the effects of pressure on solids, liquids, and gases using a wide
                variety of scientific measurement techniques.

                          Back to The Postwar Years


                           Diamond-anvil apparatus

                                    1959
                           The Physics of Baseball

   After he retired, former NIST Director Lyman Briggs used a wind tunnel
    he designed in 1918 and the pitching staff of the Washington Senators
   to settle a long-disputed question: the degree to which a baseball can
   be made to curve in the 18 meter (60 foot) throw from the pitchers box
   to the plate. He found that the spin rather than the speed of the ball
    determined its break. Briggs described his researchwidely reported in
    the news mediaas a logical development in the field of mechanics and
         closely related to NIST work in ballistics and projectiles.

                          Back to The Postwar Years


                            Date created: 11/2/00
                           Last updated: 11/15/00
                     Page maintained by Crissy Robinson.
                             Physics of Baseball
