http://cal-parks.ca.gov/news/about/areias.htm


      Welcome to California California Home To see today's date, please
                                               enable JavaScript....


   Welcome to California, picture montage consisting of California grapes,
   cable car, PDA, San Diego skyline, Hollywood sign, and Monterey Cypress
   Tree




                           State Parks Home
                           Find A Park
                           Reservations & Fees
                           Educational
                           About Us
                           Jobs
                           News and Announcements



                                Related Links



               Director's Remarks

               California Park Rangers Conference
               Sacramento 03-17-01
               Acrobat PDF 5-page 15KB
               Parks and Recreation Society Rally
               Sacramento 03-15-01
               Acrobat PDF 4-page 12KB
               Save the Redwood League
               San Francisco 11-16-00
               Acrobat PDF 5-page 15KB
               National Preservation Conference
               Los Angeles 11-01-00
               Acrobat PDF 5-page 19KB
               California League of
               Park Associations
               San Diego 10-14-00
               Acrobat PDF 5-pages
               National Trails Symposium Annual Awards Banquet
               Redding 9-21-00
               Acrobat PDF 4-page 19KB
               Admissions Day Kick-Off
               State Capitol 9-8-00
               Acrobat PDF 1-page 7.6KB
               Biography
               Acrobat PDF 2-page 8.2KB

     Picture of Rusty Areias, Director of California State Parks, with a
   red-shouldered hawk that was injured, rehabilitated, and released into
                                Coal Canyon.




   Come and escape the stresses of everyday life at one of California's
   265 state parks. They offer peace, quiet, and an opportunity to look
   back into our golden past. They provide opportunities for learning and
   recreation that are as diverse as our great state.

   We at California State Parks recognize that we are entrusted with the
   responsibility to protect and preserve these magnificent places of
   reflection and recreation that make California so unique. We are
   working hard to enhance our relationship with our environment to make
   our State Park System shine as a symbol of California's soaring soul
   and spirit.

   Years ago it was viewed as a radical idea to not charge user fees for
   park services. The idea was to make parks as self-sufficient as
   possible. However, as fees soared, we found more and more of our
   citizens unable to afford the rising costs. Therefore, in conjunction
   with Governor Gray Davis, we have cut park fees in half to improve
   accessibility. We have also passed the largest state parks bond in U.
   S. history to provide for the acquisition, improvement, restoration and
   development of state and local parks. In addition, Governor Davis
   provided $157 million for maintenance deferred during a decade of
   economic hard times. We have taken strong steps to strengthen our
   commitment to protecting open space, preserving habitat, repairing and
   maintaining our state park facilities, create new recreational
   opportunities, and acquire natural and cultural resources for our
   children.

   Today, California State Parks provides more than 280 miles of coastline
   and 630 miles of lake and river frontage. We have more than 11,000
   picnic sites, 18,000 campsites (camping reservations 800-444-PARK) and
   more than 3,000 miles of hiking, biking, and equestrian trails. We are
   committed to providing high quality recreational sites. We are
   committed also to continued protection of more than 1,500 historic
   buildings and 2.8 million historic, archaeological, and archival
   artifacts.

   There is not a day that goes by when someone within our State Parks
   team doesn't come up with an idea that makes me proud to be a part of
   our efforts. California is an extraordinary and diverse landscape. It
   takes creativity and dedication within our staff to develop and nurture
   the blueprint that gives fair and equitable access to our citizens, yet
   preserves and protects the fragile biodiversity of our resources for
   all generations to come.

   The men and women who make the state parks work are part educator,
   adventurer, handyman, police officer, friend, and naturalist. They work
   hard at all those jobs to enhance your park visit and to protect your
   park resources from the ravages of a modern world. When you visit, say
   Hello, and enjoy these special places of grandeur and glory.

   Please send me e-mail at info@parks.ca.gov, and please respond to our
   survey for visitor information at this site. Tell me what you think of
   our parks, our web site, our organization, or anything else that comes
   to mind. I welcome all of your comments and suggestions. You can mail
   to us at California Department of Parks and Recreation, P.O. Box
   942896, Sacramento, CA 94296-0001. Our General Information telephone
   number is (916) 653-6995. Our Web Site is www.parks.ca.gov

   Walk our trails, enjoy our beaches, recreate in our campgrounds and
   parks, and learn history at our museums and historical sites. We are
   here for your health, inspiration, education and enjoyment. These are
   your parks.

   Have fun!


                        __________ search
                        (*)  My CA   ( )   This Site



                            Contact Communication
                            Office - Roy Stearns,
                            Deputy Director
                            TEL 916-654-7538
                            FAX 916-657-3903


                             Back to Top of Page
    © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
