http://www3.uspto.gov/teas/PrinTEASforms.htm

             Trademark Electronic Application System
                                                     File Online

                                   e-TEAS

   Please click on the following to access a form for:


   bullet Trademark/Servicemark Application, Principal Register
   Use this form to file an initial application for either a trademark
   (used or intended to be used for goods) OR a servicemark (used or
   intended to be used in providing a service). If you use this
   application to file based on a "bona fide intent to use" the mark some
   time in the future, i.e., the applicant has not actually used the mark
   yet in commerce, but can claim in good faith that it plans to do so
   later, you must also file a second form (the Statement of Use/
   Amendment to Allege Use, below) before we can register the mark (even
   though otherwise approved based on the information in the original
   Trademark/Servicemark application). The filing fee is $325.00 per class
   of goods and/or services (i.e., if an application is for one mark, but
   it is used for computer software in Class 9 and t-shirts in Class 25,
   the filing fee is $650.00). Only one mark is permissible per
   application, although a mark may consist of several elements that are
   joined to form a composite whole (e.g., words plus a design). Also, the
   filing fee is a processing fee for the application. This fee is NOT
   returned even if ultimately the USPTO does not issue a registration.
   You should take all necessary steps to ensure the mark is registrable
   before filing the application.

   NOTE: Electronic forms do not currently exist for the following:
   Application on the Supplemental Register; Application for a
   Certification Mark; Application for a Collective Trademark/Servicemark;
   Application for a Collective Membership Mark. For the last three,
   please see http://www.uspto.gov/web/forms/index.html#TM.


   bullet Statement of Use/Amendment to Allege Use for Intent-to-Use
   Application
   Use this form only if you have already filed the initial
   Trademark/Servicemark Application based on an intent-to-use the mark in
   commerce. Before we will register a mark based upon a bona fide
   intention to use the mark in commerce (i.e., the applicant has not
   actually used the mark yet in commerce, but can claim in good faith
   that it plans to do so later), the applicant must (1) use the mark in
   commerce; and (2) file an Allegation of Use (Statement of Use/Amendment
   to Allege Use). The Allegation of Use can only be filed either
          + on or before the day the examining attorney approves the mark
            for publication in the Official Gazette (i.e., on or before
            the status of the application changes to "Approved for
            Publication"); or
          + on or after the day the Notice of Allowance (a written notice
            mailed when the examining attorney approves the mark,
            signifying that everything is acceptable for registration
            purposes BUT for the fact that the mark has not yet actually
            been used in commerce) is issued (i.e., on or after the status
            of the application changes to "Notice of Allowance issued").

   NOTE: If the Allegation of Use is filed between those periods, it will
   be returned; i.e., if the status is already "Approved for Publication"
   then you must wait until the status changes to "Notice of Allowance
   issued"; otherwise, you are in what is called the "blackout period,"
   during which submissions cannot be processed and are simply returned.
   To avoid return of an untimely Allegation of Use, please check the
   status of the application by calling 703-305-8747, or using
   http://tarr.uspto.gov


   bullet Request for Extension of Time to File a Statement of Use
   You must file a Statement of Use within six (6) months after the
   mailing date stamped on the Notice of Allowance (a written notice
   mailed when the examining attorney approves the mark, signifying that
   everything is acceptable for registration purposes BUT for the fact
   that the mark has not yet actually been used in commerce); UNLESS,
   within that same period, you submit a request for a six-month extension
   of time to file the Statement of Use. You must file the request within
   six (6) months after the issue date of the Notice of Allowance, or
   previously-granted extension period. You may request five (5)
   extensions of time. No extensions may extend beyond thirty-six (36)
   months from the issue date of the Notice of Allowance. We must receive
   the second (2nd), third (3rd), fourth (4th), and fifth (5th) extensions
   within the previously-granted extension period. Do NOT wait until the
   request for extension has been granted before filing the next request.
   You may submit one (1) extension request during the six-month period in
   which you file the Statement of Use, unless the granting of this
   request would extend the period beyond thirty-six (36) months from the
   issue date of the Notice of Allowance.


   bullet Combined declaration of use & incontestability under Sections 8
   & 15
   You may file a Combined Declaration of Use & Incontestability under
   Sections 8 & 15 only if you have continuously used a mark registered on
   the Principal (not Supplemental) Register in commerce for five (5)
   consecutive years after the date of registration. You must file the
   Combined Declaration, specimen, and fee on a date that falls on or
   between the fifth (5th) and sixth (6th) anniversaries of the
   registration (or, for an extra fee of $100.00 per class, you may file
   within the six-month grace period following the sixth anniversary
   date). If you have NOT continuously used the mark in commerce for five
   (5) consecutive years, you must still file a Section 8 Declaration. You
   must subsequently file a Section 8 declaration, specimen, and fee on a
   date that falls on or between the ninth (9th) and tenth (10th)
   anniversaries of the registration, and each successive ten-year period
   thereafter (or, for an extra fee of $100.00 per class, you may file
   within the six-month grace period). FAILURE TO FILE THE SECTION 8
   DECLARATION WILL RESULT IN CANCELLATION OF THE REGISTRATION.

   NOTE: Because the time for filing a ten-year Section 8 declaration
   coincides with the time for filing a Section 9 renewal application, a
   combined §§ 8 & 9 form exists, below.


   bullet Declaration of Use of a Mark under Section 8 (File between the
   5th & 6th year after registration)
   You must file a Section 8 declaration, specimen, and fee on a date that
   falls on or between the fifth (5th) and sixth (6th) anniversaries of
   the registration (or, for an extra fee of $100.00 per class, you may
   file within the six-month grace period following the sixth (6th)
   anniversary date). FAILURE TO FILE A SECTION 8 DECLARATION WILL RESULT
   IN CANCELLATION OF THE REGISTRATION.

   NOTE: The combined §§ 8 & 9 form (see below) is due every 10 years
   after registration.


   bullet Combined declaration of use in commerce/application for renewal
   of registration of mark under Sections 8 & 9 (File every 10 years after
   registration)
   You must file a Section 8 declaration, specimen, and fee on date that
   falls on or between the ninth (9th) and tenth (10th) anniversaries of
   the registration, and each successive ten-year period thereafter (or,
   for an extra fee of $100.00 per class, you may file within the
   six-month grace period). Also, you must file a renewal application
   within the same period (or, for an extra fee of $100.00 per class, you
   may file within the six-month grace period following the registration
   expiration date). FAILURE TO FILE THIS DOCUMENT WILL RESULT IN
   CANCELLATION/EXPIRATION OF THE REGISTRATION.

   NOTE: Because the time for filing a ten-year Section 8 declaration
   coincides with the time for filing a Section 9 renewal application, use
   this combined §§ 8 & 9 form.


   bullet Declaration of Incontestability of a Mark under Section 15
   To claim that a mark registered on the Principal Register is now
   incontestable, you must file a Section 15 declaration once the mark has
   been in continuous use in commerce for a period of five (5) years after
   the date of registration, or date of publication under § 12(c), and the
   mark is still in use in commerce. (Section 15 does NOT apply to marks
   on the Supplemental Register). You may file this declaration within one
   (1) year after the expiration of either any five-year period of
   continuous use following registration, or any five-year period of
   continuous use after publication under § 12(c). NOTE: Because the time
   for filing a Section 8 declaration coincides with the time for filing a
   Section 15 declaration of incontestability for many applicants, a
   combined §§ 8 & 15 form exists, above.


   bullet Request to Divide (under construction)
   An application may be physically divided into two or more separate
   applications upon the payment of a fee for each new application
   created. The fee for dividing an application is based on the number of
   new applications created by the division. In addition to the fee for
   dividing, an application filing fee must be submitted for each new
   separate application created by the dividing out of some but not all of
   the goods or services in a single class. You may file a request to
   divide the application
          + any time before the examining attorney approves the mark for
            publication;
          + any time before the expiration date of the six-month response
            period after issuance of a final action (that is, where the
            examining attorney has either made the refusal to register
            final or made the requirement for submission of item(s)
            final); or,
          + during an opposition proceeding at the Trademark Trial and
            Appeal Board (TTAB), upon agreement by the TTAB to permit the
            filing of a request to divide. A request to divide a §1(b)
            application may also be filed with a statement of use or at
            any time between the filing of a statement of use and the date
            the examining attorney approves the mark for registration or
            the expiration date of the six-month response period after
            issuance of a final action.

   NOTE: If a request to divide an application is received at any other
   time, it will be returned to you with any fees submitted for that
   purpose and the application will not be divided.

        TM FAQ
      Frequently
    Asked Questions
   About Trademarks

                      TEAS FAQ
                     TEAS policy
                         and
                   technical hints

                                    Trademark Page
                                        Return
                                          to
                                  the Trademark Home

                                                    USPTO Home
                                                    USPTO Home

                                                                Help Desk
                                                                Help Desk
                                                              & Bug Report
