http://www.lsc.gov/websitedocs/v1July01.pdf

   THE LEGAL LINE A Newsletter of Legal Services Corporation Summer 2001
   Volume 3, Number 3 Washington, D.C. A Message Keeping the Faith from
   the President LSC's faith-based outreach gives clients hope John N. By
   Catherine Sulzer Erlenborn and Sean Driscoll A Bipartisan isaster str D
   uck a vulner- Renaisssance able octogenarian couple in Albany, Ga.,
   twice in the Year of the Flood, 1995. On June 27, in a The big trouble
   rode in on little-noticed subcom- the tail of Hurricane Mitch mittee
   vote in the U.S. that July when days of un- House of Representa-
   flinching thunderstorms tives, the final broad pooled towering
   reservoirs Passaic County (N.J.) Legal Aid Society staffers partner
   with the St. strokes were applied to of floodwater that eventu- Paul's
   Community Development Corp. (above), while Dallas-area what could best
   be de- ally ravaged the couple's seniors attend a legal workshop at
   Salem Institutional Baptist scribed as a bipartisan house and thousands
   of oth- Church sponsored by Legal Services of North Texas (below).
   renaissance for legal ser- ers in a "federal disaster" of stinct shared
   by millions of vices in the nation's capi- epic proportions. The
   Americans, the pair turned tal. double whammy came to their faith
   community in For the first time in months later when the con- time of
   crisis. six years, the House Ap- tractor hired by Their church
   propriations Subcom- the elderly couple provided salva- mittee on
   Commerce, reneged on an Without tion, referring Justice, State, and
   Judi- " agreement to fin- churches, I'd be in them to an Al- ney at the
   Albany Office of ciary green-lighted level ish work on their big
   trouble, be- bany interfaith the Georgia Legal Services funding for
   Legal Ser- severely damaged coalition that Program (GLSP). "Often vices
   Corporation (LSC) cause they are the home. partnered with they know of
   no other place to carry out its mission With the hus- best way to reach
   the LSC-funded to turn. Faith-based organi- of helping low-income band
   confined to clients. Georgia Legal zations need to know that Americans
   with their a walker and the Giovanni Perry, Legal Services Pro- they
   can rely on local legal critical legal problems. Aid of Wester " couple
   struggling n Oklahoma gram. Attorneys services offices during their
   Weeks later, the full on a modest in- took the case times of drastic
   need." House Appropriations come and unable to afford an and helped
   them get back With President George Committee unanimously attorney,
   catastrophe under their own roof for the W. Bush's much-discussed
   followed suit. loomed. So acting on an in- price they had been quoted
   "charitable choice" proposal Buoyed by strong in their original
   contract. awaiting consideration in leadership from Presi- "When
   disaster strikes, Congress, faith-based initia- dent Bush, who called
   on people seek solace in their tives have been big talk in Congress to
   continue faith," observes Mark recent months in the power funding LSC
   at the cur- Redden, managing attor- FAITH, p. 10 rent annual level of
   $330 million, and the much- MESSAGE, p. 9 PAGE 6 John N. Erlenborn (far
   left) assumes LSC Presidency. Summer 2001 Page 2 LSC Tackles Diversity
   Challenges own legal problems," he said in his last formal By Sean
   Driscoll remarks to field staff before stepping down as In an effort to
   better serve an increas- President. "It is our job to solve these prob-
   ingly diverse client population, Legal Services lems." Corporation
   (LSC) co-sponsored a successful Issues of two-day conference May 31 and
   June 1 entitled geog raphy, "Diversity in the Legal Services
   Community." language and Recommendations The conference, held on the
   outskirts of technology The following rec- Washington, D.C., was
   attended by 51 legal were often ommendations were services leaders from
   across the country and mentioned as submitted to LSC was one of a
   series of yearlong national diver- At his last function with LSC field
   staff, the most seri- staff by conferees at outgoing President John
   McKay (above, sity conversations jointly sponsored by LSC left) chats
   about the importance of diver- ous obstacles. the conclusion of the and
   the National Legal Aid & Defender Asso- sity in legal services.
   "Operating LSC/NLADA Diver- ciation (NLADA). The purpose of the meet-
   out of a rural sity Conference May ings was to examine the impact of
   diversity location makes 31-June 1. issues such as race, ethnicity,
   gender, disability, it hard to re- ······ and sexual orientation on the
   legal services cruit diverse Explore possibility of community  and to
   develop recommenda- staff mem- training LSC employ- tions on how these
   important issues can be bers," ex- ees to speak other languages and be-
   better addressed. (See graphic at right.) plained Estela come certified
   inter- "We serve clients from every imaginable Casas of preters to more
   fully background, and one of our biggest tests is to G r e a t e r
   assist clients recognize the challenges that each of our cli-
   Bakersfield Le- ent communities faces," said LSC VP of Pro- LSC Board
   members Maria Luisa gal Services in Explore opportunities grams Randi
   Youells, who spearheaded the Mercado (above, right) and LaVeeda M.
   Bakersfield, for training grantee conference. "By studying what makes
   each of Battle (below, with NLADA's Don Calif. "Most boards on
   diversity Saunders), make diversity a priority. our clients unique and
   tailoring programs to people would concerns to help them guide LSC pro-
   meet those needs, we will be able to provide rather go to grams them
   with better legal representation, which Los Angeles is why we're here
   in the first place." or San Fran- Highlight models of The conference
   was facilitated by two con- cisco." diversity in hiring and sultants,
   who pressed participants to brain- Claudeen retaining staff and in
   storm solutions to the problems of recruiting Arthur of bridging
   language diverse staff and ensuring diverse leadership, DNA-People's
   and cultural barriers while remaining focused on the goal of im- Legal
   Services Continue to work to proved client service. in Window design
   and imple- Conferees also examined three external is- Rock, Ariz., ment
   a loan forgive- sues: the lack of a common definition of di- has an
   even ness program for new versity within legal services, loss of trust
   among Lillian Johnson, director of Community tougher time and existing
   staff clients due to the perception that legal ser- Legal Services in
   Phoenix, discusses di- grappling with versity issues with Phil Bond, an
   attorney vices providers have stopped dealing directly with the Macon
   Office of Georgia Legal diversity prob- Increase emphasis to with
   race-based issues, and the importance of Services (below). lems working
   grantees of the impor- ensuring that justice communities become with
   Native tance of culturally competent staff at all more inclusive and
   multiculturally competent. Americans. program levels Outgoing LSC
   President John McKay "Many clients stressed how diverse staffs are
   uniquely situ- speak their na- ated to serve the legal needs of diverse
   clien- tive [Indian] languages, and even with minimal tele. "We must
   think in terms of race, ethnicity, English, cannot deal with
   complicated legal age, gender, and sexual orientation because issues,"
   she said. "We need staff that speak these characteristics often carry
   with them their their languages." Summer 2001 Page 3 The Little
   (Search) Engine That Could With LSC grant, I-CAN! computers kiosks help
   California's poor help themselves By Stephanie Serrano Venture out to
   the Superior Court build- ing in Orange County, Calif., to witness
   LSC's L S C : maiden voyage into the realm of Web-assisted
   self-empowerment. in the new millenium You may not find legal services
   clients sit- ting at computer kiosks chanting the mantra, "I think I
   can! I think I can!" but don't be surprised to find more than a few
   successfully Innovation scaling mountains of legal woe with a few quick
   I-CAN! Computer Kiosks clicks of the mouse. In California, as in every
   state, the vast Program majority of low-income individuals have no
   Legal Aid Society of Orange County recourse when they find themselves
   facing se- rious legal problems. In fact, shortages in legal aid
   resources force more than three-quarters Description of California's
   poor to represent themselves A multilingual, interactive, self-help A
   client in Orange County uses I-CAN! to file documents with the court.
   or forsake the justice system all together when system that provides
   tutorials that confronted with a civil legal crisis. aid clients in
   formatting pleadings cial kiosks with easy-to-use touch screens are
   Legal Aid Society of Orange County and finding forms appropriate to
   their being placed in public facilities  like courthouses, (LASOC)
   understands this conundrum all too needs. With its touch-screen inter-
   libraries, and shelters  so any eligible client can well. So last
   November, the LSC-funded pro- face, I-CAN! also answers frequently walk
   right up and use I-CAN! The list of de- gram partnered with the
   Superior Court of asked questions and educates us- ployment sites is
   growing as the project California and Orange County to launch I- ers on
   the law. In addition, video progresses. In addition to the Superior
   Court CAN!  an Internet-based computer system conferencing technology
   is being in- locations, the Orange County District Attorney's designed
   to broaden the reach of legal services tegrated into I-CAN! to enable
   us- Family Support Division, Fullerton Library, and give pro se clients
   the tools they need to ers to obtain live assistance from Irvine City
   Hall, and San Juan Capistrano Li- represent their own interests in
   court. an LSC attorney over the Internet. brary are all hosting either
   I-CAN! kiosks or "[I-CAN!] showed me how to do it, computer work
   stations. where I needed to go, and what forms I needed," Angeles and
   San Francisco. Since I-CAN!'s in- Included in the I-CAN! system is a
   video LASOC client Kim Dinh said. "Everything I ception, LSC has
   provided a total of $475,000 guide feature, in the form of an on-screen
   helper needed was right here." in federal support. who speaks all the
   written text, counsels the ICAN! is a multilingual, interactive sys-
   "Three of the major goals we've set for user, and adds to the
   understandability of I-CAN tem providing tutorials to help clients find
   our programs are to better use technology, strive for all clients,
   regardless of their literacy level. forms appropriate to their needs
   and format for more even statewide service, and provide "The talking
   head was very helpful because pleadings and other legal documents
   properly. better resources for self-representing clients," it guided me
   through the whole process," user With its touch-screen interface,
   I-CAN! also said Randi Youells, LSC's Vice President of Pro- Stacey
   Lopez says. "In 1994, I had to fill out answers frequently asked
   questions, offers court grams. "I-CAN! tackles all three priorities in
   forms and needed somebody to help me, and it tours, and educates users
   on the law. Video one fell swoop. This is cutting edge-technol- took a
   long time." With I-CAN!, the user can conferencing technology is also
   being inte- ogy that will enable our clients to walk into replay the
   video as many times as needed to un- grated into I-CAN! to enable users
   to obtain court and represent themselves, and to com- derstand what is
   required. immediate assistance from Help Center staff municate with LSC
   staff live over the Internet Since its first deployment, I-CAN! has at
   LASOC  technology that holds tremendous if they live too far from one
   of our offices for been remarkably well-received. Of 177 user potential
   to reach new clients currently not an in-person consultation." surveys
   returned to LASOC, 96 percent of served by an LSC program. I-CAN!
   technology complements the tra- respondents stated that I-CAN! was
   either LSC officials have taken notice of the ditional clinic or
   one-on-one settings in which "helpful" or "very helpful" in assisting
   them project's swift success. In July, the Corpora- lawyers typically
   meet clients. Said Dinh: "I with their problems. "It guides me very
   well, tion awarded LASOC $300,000 in technology think it's great. It
   saves a lot of people a lot of instead of the thick pamphlet I would
   have grants to expand the I-CAN! project into other time. You don't
   have to wait in line, you can to fill out at home," said Lopez, who
   used I- areas of California, particularly the state's rural just come
   up here and do it yourself." Utilizing CAN! to file for a restraining
   order and plans inland areas (such as Riverside and San Bernar- the
   technology does not require a home com- to return to fill out paperwork
   for her dino Counties) and the outlying areas of Los puter or
   particularly strong computer skills. Spe- divorce. Summer 2001 Page 4 L
   S C inside the Staff Spotlight Pat Hanrahan D.C. Park Cleanup Job
   Title: Special Assistant to the VP of Programs Launches Service Program
   Description: Assist with range of projects, including examining Leaving
   their briefcases and work the effects of gender and clothes in the
   closet, nearly a dozen Legal diversity issues on legal services
   Services Corporation employees departed and promoting state planning.
   their homes unusually early one Saturday in May to go off to work.
   LSC's Globetrotter Armed with trash bags and rakes, they arrived at
   historic Meridian Hill Park lenges are faced by LSC and its legal ser-
   in northwest Washington determined to The work of legal aid profession-
   vices counterparts around the world. Le- spend their day off
   work...well, work- als can be fulfilling on many levels, but for Legal
   Services Corporation's most gal aid leaders from 10 different coun- ing
   to give something back to the com- itinerant staffer, hitting the road
   simul- tries (Australia, Canada, England, Ger- munity. taneously
   provides a rich perspective on many, Ireland, Northern Ireland, Norway,
   The team mulched, weeded, raked, her life's work and the world's many
   Scotland, Wales, and the United States) and cleaned for several hours
   and also cultures. attended the meeting to share strategies raised and
   donated funds to Greater D.C. Attorney Pat Hanrahan just re- on how to
   better utilize technology, insti- Cares to support the management of
   fu- turned from an International Legal Aid tute program evaluations and
   perfor- ture volunteer service Group Conference in Australia, only
   mance measures to ensure better service, in the park. Although L S C
   months after being promoted to the and reach out to indigenous
   populations Meridian Hill position of Special Assistant to LSC Vice and
   clients living in remote areas. Park was once President of Programs
   Randi Youells. Hanrahan's Australian odyssey was considered a GIVES In
   her new position, Hanrahan has merely the latest stamp in the passport
   high-crime area, many roles, including planning special of LSC's
   peripatetic program professional. community involvement from groups
   like events like the recent LSC/NLADA In the last decade alone,
   Hanrahan has LSC has helped restore the park and re- been to Acapulco
   and Oaxaca in Mexico, duce crime there by an estimated 95 per- to
   Guinea in West Africa to visit her son cent. in the Peace Corps, to
   Guatemala for a two-week vacation, and to Vietnam with The Meridian
   Hill Park beautification a group that included LSC program coun-
   project served as the inaugural event for sel Anh-Huong Tu. a new group
   called LSC GIVES  a com- "Vietnam has to be my favorite coun- munity
   service and pro bono program try, in terms of the usual standards like
   formed and run by LSC staff. The pro- food, landscape, shopping, and
   art, but gram encourages LSC employees to even more so because of the
   nature of spend time volunteering in their local com- the people, who
   were very gracious to munities, while also encouraging LSC at- us,"
   Hanrahan said. "It was astounding torneys and paralegals to volunteer
   and Hanrahan overlooking the harbor in to me that the Vietnamese people
   were offer free assistance to low-income fami- Marseilles, France. so
   welcoming to, and forgiving of, Ameri- lies with legal problems.
   "Diversity in Legal Services" Confer- can tourists after our country's
   violent his- "It is our way of doing something ence (see page 2). In
   each of her roles, tory with them." tangible to help our employees walk
   the though, staying closely attuned to the Hanrahan's globetrotting
   ways come walk," said Mattie Condray, chair of LSC needs of LSC's
   clients remains Job 1. in handy during her LSC career. As one Gives and
   LSC Senior Assistant General "Traveling helps me understand of the
   chief organizers of LSC's ongo- Counsel. more about other people's
   conditions," ing diversity dialogue, she helps the orga- LSC Gives also
   enlists staffers (and says Hanrahan, who began touring the nization
   understand the evolving cultural their family members) to participate
   in a world after college when she lived in dynamics of client
   communities that are host of individual community service Paris for two
   years. "Traveling opens a increasingly comprised of immigrants.
   projects besides the group projects like window into the experiences of
   clients She also has a special sensitivity to the the Meridian Hill
   cleanup. This list includes and their families who come from other
   importance of attracting a diverse staff the DC AIDS Ride, GED
   Tutoring, and countries. It lets me get to know people at LSC.
   volunteer work with the Montgomery and find out how alike we all are.
   The "Working in LSC offices has been County Public Schools, the
   Washington world becomes smaller and more great because there is so
   much diversity," Center for Aging Services, the Washing- friendly."
   Hanrahan said. "While we may all come ton Family Institute, and the
   Leukemia and At the Australia conference, from different places, we all
   share the Lymphoma Society. Hanrahan learned how similar the chal- same
   mission." -- Perry Wasserman Summer 2001 Page 5 Alaska Mourns Loss of
   Legal Services Leader Program Notes Alaska lost one of the pillars of
   its tribes. He was largely responsible for the legal services community
   on June 9, when installation of the Native American Rights Robert
   Hickerson, executive director of Fund in Alaska and for helping to
   create Legal Aid Society of Columbus' Alaska Legal Services one of the
   leading Native Law legal ser- Capital Campaign has raised more
   Corporation (ALSC), vices programs in the country. than $1 million for
   new office space. lost a seven-year battle Hickerson was born on Oct.
   12, 1950, The main office in Columbus, Ohio, with brain cancer. in
   Altus, Okla., and graduated from Okla- was badly in need of renovation,
   so the program embarked on a Hickerson will be homa University in 1973
   and OU law fundraising campaign. Thanks to remembered for his school in
   1976. In 1972, he was married combined pledges from the legal tireless
   advocacy on to Elizabeth Johnston, and they moved community, Legal Aid
   was able to behalf of indigent to Alaska in 1981. Robert was hired on
   as purchase the building next to their Alaskans, particularly chief
   counsel at ALSC, and three years own. The two buildings were reno-
   Native American later, he took over as executive director  Hickerson
   vated and connected together. A new tribes. Last year, he re- a
   position he had held ever since. conference room, library, children's
   ceived the Alaska Civil Liberties Union Hickerson's life and work
   touched play area, and private meeting rooms Equal Access to Justice
   Award for his thousands of people with whom he came were added.
   Chairman John Elam commitment to serving the legal needs into contact.
   He leaves a legacy that will said, "I am thrilled with the leader- of
   Alaska's low-income citizens and not soon be forgotten. ship of the
   large law firms and the strong support from the foundations and county
   government." * article adapted from "Legal Aid Wraps Up Capital
   Campaign" (Press Release, April 1, 2001, by Jane L S C inside the
   Foulk) Land of Lincoln Legal Assistance United Way Recognizes LSC
   Effort Foundation was named the benefi- ciary of three grants from the
   Illinois Each year, Legal Services Corpora- Equal Justice Foundation on
   April 9. tion (LSC) undertakes a meticulous ef- The grant money totals
   $71,065 and fort to apportion more than $330 mil- will be used for thee
   purposes: a tele- lion from Congress so the powerless phone hotline
   serving 65 central and can have their day in court. southern Illinois
   counties, assis- But pooling resources on behalf tance to the elderly
   in eight coun- of low-income Americans is more than ties around
   Springfield, and landlord- just a day job for LSC employees, who,
   tenant representation in Sangamon this spring, were recognized for
   reach- County. The grant award marks the ing into their own pockets to
   lend a first time that the state government helping hand. helped
   underwrite the costs of pro- In March, the United Way of the viding
   civil legal advice and assis- National Capital Area presented LSC tance
   to low-income clients in Illi- with two awards for its fundraising ef-
   nois. LSC-funded Land of Lincoln forts during the 2000 United Way Cam-
   was one of 19 legal assistance agen- paign. LSC staff raised $18,226
   for cies in Illinois to receive grant United Way charities through
   gifts and money. paycheck deductions, earning a Plati- * article
   adapted from "First Equal Justice grants num Award for giving more than
   $100 awarded for legal aid" (ISBA Bar News, May 1, per employee. 2001,
   by Stephen Anderson). LSC also earned first place (tying Alice
   Dickerson, LSC Director of Human with the Corporation for Public Broad-
   Resources, displays first-place award. FACT casting) for "Best Campaign
   Kick-Off/ The Legal Services Corporation was Victory Celebration" as
   part of the ... Your Help is Their Hope." established in 1974 to
   provide lawyers United Way's 2000 Communications The national United
   Way campaign in civil matters to people earning up to Contest
   recognizing unique campaign raised a total of $88.5 million last year.
   125% of the federal poverty level... events, Web sites, and promotional
   lit- The money raised will fund programs erature. LSC kicked off its
   2000 cam- that provide basic services (i.e., food, In 2001, a family of
   four must earn below $22,063 in order to receive legal paign with a
   festive gathering featur- clothing and shelter) to the disadvan- aid
   from one of the 207 LSC-funded ing games, raffles, an auction of baked
   taged as well as programs that seek to programs. goods, and a visit
   from Make-a-Wish build healthier communities and serve Note: This
   figure represents 125% of the poverty Foundation President Ralph A.
   Nappi. the needs of the challenged. guidelines for a family of four as
   determined by the LSC's campaign theme was "Be a Hero -- Sean Driscoll
   Department of Health and Human Services. Summer 2001 Page 6 Changing of
   the Guard in Portsmouth Battle McKay Erlenborn Legal Services
   Corporation tapped one of its founding fathers as its newest President
   at a June 29-30 Board of Directors meeting in Ports- mouth, N.H. Former
   U.S. Congressman John N. Erlenborn (R-IL), who served 10 terms in the
   U.S. House of Representatives from 1965 to 1985, was chosen by LSC's
   11-member bipar- tisan Board to succeed outgoing President John McKay,
   who stepped down to pursue the Full Court Press position of U.S.
   Attorney in Seattle. Erlenborn's commitment to legal services can be
   traced all the way back to LSC's found- The entire 5-member New
   Hampshire Supreme Court ing in 1974, when he was one of the came to
   Portsmouth June 29 to show their support for House managers of the
   legislation cre- legal services and fellow Justice John T. Broderick
   Jr., ating the Congresionally chartered non- an LSC Board member.
   Pictured above (l to r): LSC Presi- profit Corporation. Also at the
   meeting, dent John N. Erlernborn, Chief Justice David A. Brock, LaVeeda
   Morgan Battle was named new Justice Broderick, Justice Joseph P.
   Nadeau, Justice vice chair of the LSC Board, while Ameri- Linda S.
   Dalianis, outgoing LSC President John McKay, can Bar Association
   President-elect Bob Justice James E. Duggan, and LSC Board Chair Dou-
   Hirshon (right) unveiled a pending ABA glas S. Eakeley. proposal for
   Congress to introduce a loan-forgiveness program for law stu- dents
   seeking to enter the legal services profession. Left: New Hamp- shire
   Supreme Court Justice John T. Broderick, Jr. (left) receives a gift for
   his record eight-year tenure on the LSC Board. Clockwise from top left:
   LSC Board members F. Wm. McCalpin; Nancy H. Rogers and Douglas S.
   Eakeley Clockwise from left: Marilyn (above); and Edna McNamara, new
   director of New Fairbanks-WIlliams Hampshire's Legal Advice & and
   Ernestine P. Referral Center, speaks; NH Chief Watlington (left)
   Justice David Brock chats with Erlenborn and Eakeley (above); and Board
   members Thomas Smegal, Maria Luisa Mercado, and LaVeeda Battle listen
   intently (left). Summer2001 Page 7 States Focus on Equal Justice
   DENVER, CO Mary Mullarkey, Chief Justice of the Colorado Supreme Court
   (left), welcomes legal services leaders from across the state (above)
   at an equal justice conference on May 11 at University of Denver law
   school. LINCOLN, NE Barbara Chamberlin and JoAnne Salazar of the
   Colorado Bar Association greet conferees with song: "Somewhere over the
   rainbow, I can see; there's a land where there's justice, even for
   folks like me." Above right: Nebraska Legal Services, led by Executive
   Director Doug German (center), spearheaded a statewide equal justice
   meeting June 8 in Lincoln that attracted Judge Ken Vampola (left) of
   Winnebago Tribal Court and Judge- Magistrate David Piester of Federal
   District Court. Below: Sam Clinch, Associate Executive Director of the
   Nebraska State Bar Assocation, peruses LSC's quarterly newsletter, The
   Legal Line. LSC Vice President Mauricio Vivero (right) praises Nebraska
   for its progress in statewide justice planning, while Nebraska Legal
   Services Board Chair Jim Gordon looks on. Summer 2001 Page 8
   Grandparent Advocacy Project Keeps Kids With Families By Sarah T.
   Zaffina and Brenda R. Moynihan When young Jonathon Rosario was Services
   (CPS) determined that he was Project in Erie, Pa., with the goal of re-
   placed into foster care because of paren- being neglected due to his
   mother's drug forming local systems responsible for tal neglect, it was
   a devastating blow to addiction. The NLS attorney worked helping abused
   and neglected children find his grandparents, who were ready and with
   the biological parents to establish stable, permanent homes. able to
   provide a loving and nurturing paternity, giving grandpa Eliezer the
   "[The Grandparent Advocacy home. standing to seek custody. In the mean-
   Project] provides vital representation for Unable to afford an
   attorney, Eliezer time, CPS investigated the grandparents' individuals
   not entitled to assigned coun- Rosario, Jonathon's grandfather, filed a
   home and concluded that it was a suit- sel through Family Court," Judge
   petition for custody himself. When he did, able place for Jonathon to
   live. Townsend said. "Without legal advocacy, the Erie County (Pa.)
   Family Court in- When Eliezer Rosario next appeared grandparents and
   other relatives may not formed him that he did not have legal before
   the Court, an Acknowledgement be recognized as custodial alternatives
   for standing to seek custody of Jonathon be- vulnerable children and
   [may not] have their cause his own son had not been defini- familial
   rights protected." tively established as Jonathon's father. The
   Grandparent Advocacy Project Before the Grandparent Advocacy That's
   when Neighborhood Legal provides free legal representation to Project
   was established, low-income Services Association (NLS) came to the
   low-income grandparents seeking grandparents and other extended family
   rescue. to care for children when parents members were faced with the
   prospect cannot. The purpose is to place With the help of the
   Grandparent children with loving members of of representing themselves
   in court, while Advocacy Project (GAP), a three-month their extended
   family who are ea- low-income parents were assigned a pilot program
   established by the LSC- ger and able to care for them. court-appointed
   attorney and a court-ap- funded legal aid provider, Eliezer Rosario
   pointed law guardian also represented the was able to bring Jonathon
   home. of Paternity was entered, and the child. The Grandparent Advocacy
   Project Rosarios were given custody of Jonathon Since the program's
   inception, Neigh- provides free legal representation to low- for
   emergency foster care placement. borhood Legal Services has been over-
   income grandparents and other relatives Without the help from
   Neighborhood whelmed with requests for help. An at- seeking to care for
   children when parents Legal Services, Jonathon likely would torney is
   on call five days a week to pro- cannot. The primary purpose of the
   have remained in the foster care system vide representation. NLS has
   received project is to place children with loving indefinitely. more
   than 50 requests from extended members of their extended family who The
   Grandparent Advocacy Project family members for assistance, 16 of are
   eager and able to care for them. As a was created with an initial grant
   of which came in the first two weeks of June. result, kids aren't sent
   to foster homes $50,000 from the state of New York at Currently,
   Neighborhood Legal Services with strangers, but to the homes of rela-
   the recommendation of the Kinship is representing 35 grandparents and
   other tives they already know, trust, and love. Committee of the Erie
   County Family relatives in the Erie County Family Court. As for
   Jonathon, he had been re- Court Improvement Project. Supervis- The
   requests for representation are ex- moved from his mother's care and
   placed ing Family Court Judge Sharon S. pected to increase, as the
   community be- in a foster home after Child Protective Townsend created
   the Family Court comes more aware of the project. ABA, LSC Laud
   Legislators LSC was proud to take part in the American Bar
   Association's third annual "ABA Day in Washington" May 9-10 on Capitol
   Hill, where bar leaders from around the country gathered to lobby on
   issues affecting the justice system and recognize legislators committed
   to preserving legal services for the poor. Hon- ored by the ABA for
   their work on justice issues were Senator Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.,
   photo to right, with outgoing LSC President John McKay) and Reps. Henry
   Hyde (R-Ill., photo to left , with LSC Presi- dent John N. Erlenborn),
   Constance Morella (R-Md.), and Fred Upton (R-Mich.). Summer 2001 Page 9
   MESSAGE, On July 23, we mark an important the floor of the House. ctd.
   from page 1 anniversary borne out of our founding LSC remained popular
   for a num- fathers' vision: the signing of the LSC Act, ber of years,
   but a funny thing happened which paved the way for millions of on the
   way to the 1980s. Media uproar welcomed support of new subcommit-
   Americans to receive legal help in non- generated by a few politically
   charged tee Chairman Frank Wolf (R-VA), it was criminal matters, such
   as domestic vio- cases caused a near revolt by some con- as if years of
   controversy and conten- lence, child custody disputes, wrongful
   servatives, who perceived that LSC pro- tiousness surrounding federal
   legal aid eviction proceedings, consumer fraud, ter- grams were
   straying from their original suddenly melted away. LSC's funding
   mination of benefits, and breach of con- mission of providing basic
   legal help to must still make its way through the Sen- tract. the poor
   by becoming involved in cases ate, but the unanimous support of the
   Twenty-seven years have passed since dealing with political
   redistricting, abor- key House panel  which for years had LSC's
   founding, yet our mission remains tion, assisted suicide and other
   divisive is- either called for drastic funding cuts or the same. And
   gratefully, on June 30, I sues. The controversy came to a head in LSC's
   outright elimination  signals was given the opportunity to lead the or-
   1996 when LSC's budget was cut by one- smooth sailing in our quest for
   level fund- ganization I've so strongly supported third and a series of
   restrictions were ing in FY2002. when I was named President by the
   Board placed on the activities of LSC-funded We at LSC, I admit, were
   thrilled but of Directors just three weeks prior to programs.
   unsurprised by the outcome. For years, LSC's anniversary. Though
   controversial in some quar- we have been laying the seeds of a true For
   me, it's hard to believe there was ters, the restrictions  and LSC's
   unbend- partnership with Congress, working ever a time when LSC did not
   enjoy ing enforcement of them  helped usher across party lines to build
   bipartisan sup- broad support. In the early 1970s, fed- in a wave of
   increased Congressional sup- port for legal services while dispelling
   lin- eral legal aid was so popular that even a port. gering myths of
   the past about the work of LSC-funded pro- s I look bac A k on LSC's
   grams. We even went to the U.S. history, I see a profoundly Supreme
   Court to defend restric- proud legacy. Yet I also see how tions passed
   by Congress in 1996. much we still have to accom- President Bush took
   notice, af- plish. America is a long way firming a federal commitment
   to from realizing the promise im- equal justice by writing in his plied
   in the Preamble  to es- FY02 Congressional budget re- tablish a justice
   system that af- quest that "[f]or millions of fords all litigants an
   equal op- Americans, LSC-funded legal ser- portunity to be heard,
   regard- vices is the only resource available less of the depths of
   their to access the justice system." pockets. A June 16 headline from
   Con- It's a startling reality today gressional Quarterly Weekly sums up
   that an estimated 80 percent of the current situation on Capitol
   low-income Americans are go- Hill: LEGAL SERVICES LSC Board Chair
   Douglas Eakeley (left) announces new ing without the legal help they
   CORPORATION'S FUTURE APPEARS President John N. Erlenborn in Portsmouth,
   N.H. need in time of crisis. The LSC SECURE, AGENCY'S GOP DETRAC- Act
   mandates that those at or TORS CONCEDE. Today, all of us who
   conservative standard-bearer like Richard below 125 percent of poverty
   will re- work in legal services ought to take a Nixon dared not abolish
   it as he sought ceive justice in the courts, and we know moment to
   pause, reflect, and celebrate. to dismantle an array of other poverty
   for a fact today that they do not. We owe We've come a long way.
   programs administered by the Office of it to ourselves, to our
   democracy, to make Full circle, in fact. Economic Opportunity (OEO).
   Presi- a better accounting. dent Nixon successfully dissolved the LSC
   has assumed the brunt of that A OEO, but wisely heeded advisers who
   responsibility, and our progress has been s a law student, private
   attorney, warned him that the elimination of two promising. As
   President, I remain com- government prosecutor, legislator, and popular
   programs would be tantamount mitted to continuing the Herculean efforts
   law-school professor, I have had the privi- to ingesting political
   poison. of my predecessor, John McKay, in mak- lege to study, practice,
   enforce, make, and One was a program called Headstart. ing our
   Congressionally chartered orga- teach law. The words etched in the Pre-
   The other was federally funded legal ser- nization a catalyst for
   innovation, change, amble of the U.S. Constitution  to estab- vices for
   the poor. and progress. lish justice have been my life's credo. That's
   With the OEO abolished, momen- With support from Republicans and why I
   consider among my proudest tum grew for the establishment of a new
   Democrats in Congress, and with all of achievements my small role in
   the creation corporation to operate independently of us working
   tirelessly to serve the legal of an institution worthy of our founders'
   the federal government, but whose bi- needs of low-income Americans, we
   may noblest ideals. As a U.S. Congressman partisan board would be
   appointed by yet realize that seamless vision of equal representing the
   suburbs of Chicago in the President and confirmed by the U.S. justice
   under the law contemplated by our 1974, I was one of the GOP House
   floor Senate. Remembering the legal plight of forefathers. managers
   during consideration of the the indigent from my days as an assistant
   Happy anniversary, LSC. LSC Act, a bill that established a Con- states
   attorney in Illinois, I enthusiastically gressionally funded
   organization commit- endorsed the creation of such a body and LSC
   President John N. Erlenborn was a U.S. Congressman (R-IL) from 1965-85.
   A version of this ted to one day realizing equal justice for was proud
   to push for it in the Educa- column originally appeared in the L.A. and
   San Fran- all. tion and Labor Committee, and later on cisco Daily
   Journals. Summer 2001 Page 10 FAITH, ctd. from page 1 Matters of Faith
   corridors of Washington, on the political talk-show circuit, and
   throughout the Legal aid providers offer all manner of legal services
   through faith-based nation's churches, synagogues, and mosques.
   outreach efforts. Listed below are some LSC-funded programs that
   utilize Robust partnerships between the fed- partnerships with
   religious institutions, and the type of legal help they pro- eral
   government and religious organizations vide to clients as a result. may
   be a fairly novel, even hotly debated, idea in the nation's capital.
   But for the 207 Northwest Justice Project (Wash.) Legal Services of
   Greater Miami, Inc. local legal aid programs nationwide funded *
   welfare reform, public benefits, health * housing, immigration by the
   Legal Services Corporation (LSC), care and senior issues,farmworker
   Legal Services Corporation of Iowa faith-based outreach is neither a
   new nor issues * taxpayer clinics, immigration especially controversial
   concept. It is sim- Legal Aid Society of Northeastern New York, Inc.
   Legal Services of North Texas ply a proven way to reach the clients
   that * domestic violence, housing, senior issues * general legal
   clinics, housing, immigration. need legal assistance the most. Legal
   Services of Northern California, Inc. Kansas Legal Services, Inc. LSC
   programs discovered long ago * charitable choice, housing, welfare-to-
   * domestic violence that partnering with faith-based entities can work,
   economic development, immigration Merrimack Valley (Mass.) Legal
   Services, Inc. be an invaluable way to let society's most Bay Area
   (Fla.) Legal Services, Inc. * domestic violence vulnerable citizens,
   particularly seniors and * general assistance to non-profits, Gulfcoast
   (Fla.) Legal Services, Inc. poor immigrants, know that federally
   including faith-based institutions * homelessness, domestic violence.
   funded legal services are available to them. Passaic County (N.J.)
   Legal Aid Society Ohio State Legal Services "Without churches, I'd be
   in big * housing, education, community * sponsors pro bono legal
   clinics trouble, because they are the best way to development Utah
   Legal Services, Inc. reach clients," says Giovanni Perry, a staff Legal
   Services of Southern Michigan, Inc. * farmworker issues attorney who
   represents migrant farm- * housing MidPenn Legal Services, Inc. workers
   for Legal Aid of Western Okla- Farmworker Legal Services * housing,
   AIDS homa. "Churches act as a centralized in- (Legal Services of
   Southern Michigan, Inc.) Legal Services of North Florida, Inc.
   formation place where people can go to * farmworker issues, immigration
   * housing find out about legal aid programs and a Georgia Legal
   Services Program Legal Services of Northeastern Wisconsin, Inc. myriad
   other things like health benefits and * disaster relief, domestic
   violence, AIDS, * housing, poverty issues education. Many churches have
   already farmworker issues Atlanta Legal Aid Society, Inc. reached out
   to my clients, thus networking Legal Aid of Western Oklahoma, Inc. *
   domestic violence with them makes my job easier." * farmworker issues
   Perry's assessment echoes positive sentiments expressed by staffers at
   dozens of LSC-funded programs that have worked successfully with houses
   of wor- Legal Services of Southern Michigan co- ship and faith-based
   coalitions for decades. sponsors immigration clinics at the Third (See
   graphic, at right.) Whether through Reformed Church in Holland, Mich.,
   onsite legal clinics or referrals from reli- where legal aid staff and
   church officials gious institutions, LSC programs success- like Sister
   Rosemary Tierney (bottom fully reach out to places of worship to help
   right) screen clients eligible to receive clients solve a host of legal
   problems, such legal help with "green card" renewals and as immigration
   claims, housing assistance, visa petitions. welfare challenges, child
   custody disputes, breach-of-contract, denial of medical care, Western
   Michigan attended two immigra- to the United States from their native
   income-tax filings, and will-writing and es- tion clinics offered this
   spring by Kenya. At an immigration seminar spon- tate planning.
   Farmworker Legal Services (FLS), a divi- sored by Catholic Charities
   and Legal Ser- Bridging cultural barriers is one of the sion of Legal
   Services of Southern vices of North Texas, Mohamed learned biggest
   upsides of LSC programs' faith- Michigan. Public education and
   processing his family stood a far better chance of based outreach with
   immigrants. "My cli- clinics were held at Third Reformed immigrating if
   he became a U.S. citizen. ents are migrants and generally speak little
   Church of Holland, Mich., and the Peoples' So legal aid lawyers walked
   Mohamed English, and Spanish-speaking people that Church in Kalamazoo,
   where a 20-minute through the naturalization process, even as- might
   serve as translators for potential cli- video prepared by FLS bilingual
   attorneys sisting in his preparations for a citizenship ents are more
   easily found at churches than was shown to immigrants to determine test
   during the spring. anywhere else," Perry says. "Trust is a huge whether
   they would benefit from the re- Cultural barriers also make it
   difficult issue because these people already trust lief offered by the
   LIFE Act. At day's end, for many immigrant clients to decipher their
   their churches." hundreds of grateful immigrants left the annual tax
   returns. Legal Services Corpo- Immigration issues were particularly
   churches prepared to mail their petitions ration of Iowa (LSCI), with
   help from an pressing this year following Congressional to the
   Immigration and Naturalization Ser- Internal Revenue Service grant,
   adminis- passage of the Legal Immigration Family vice. ters a
   Low-Income Taxpayer Clinic to cli- Equity (LIFE) Act, which set an
   April 30, Legal services lawyers frequently rep- ents at Mt. Olivet
   Lutheran Church in 2001, deadline for U.S. immigrants on a resent the
   best and only hope for foreign- Perry, Iowa, where a large meat packing
   temporary visa to apply for a permanent born settlers seeking a chance
   to pursue plant is located, and in several smaller com- one. the
   American dream. Ahmed Mohamed of More than a thousand immigrants in
   FAITH, p. 11 East Dallas wants to bring his entire family Summer 2001
   Page 11 Clients Take Center Stage Federally funded legal aid pro- grams
   are only as good as the ser- vices they provide to their clients. This
   April, Legal Services Corpora- tion rededicated itself to this prin-
   ciple by holding a special "Client- Centered Conference" in Hershey,
   Pa. The goal was to foster a frank dialogue between clients and legal
   services providers about how to bet- ter serve the changing legal needs
   of different client populations. Ernestine Watlington of nearby Top
   left: John McKay honors Ernestine Harrisburg, Pa., and Edna Watlington
   and Edna Fairbanks-Williams of Fairhaven, Fairbanks-Williams for their
   record tenure Vt., were presented special awards as client Board for
   their service as the two-longest members. Top Right: Hafeezah running
   client board members in Ahmad, board LSC's 27-year history. And confer-
   president of Legal ees left the three-day meeting with Action of
   Wisconsin, with Veda McKnight of an arsenal of useful ideas on how the
   Georgia Clients to more effectively partner client Council. Lucy
   Johnson (left), a member of the communities with their legal ser-
   Michael Blau of Lansing, Mich., chats local program board in Syracuse,
   with Johnny Ritchie of Kingsport, Tenn. vices providers. N.Y., with
   Alcira Marin Kane of Lawrence, Mass. FAITH, sitional housing sites in
   south Dade County, ness. Whenever we can partner with com- ctd. from
   page 10 Fla. Staff attorneys offer training for resi- munity groups who
   have ongoing involve- dents to help them recognize their legal rights
   ment with our clients, the clients benefit by and responsibilities, and
   provide legal ser- improved and more timely legal assistance." munities
   through a diocese in Des Moines. vices to those with landlord disputes.
   Thanks to NJP, following her latest Many of the clients receiving help
   are His- Medical problems are also addressed course of chemotherapy,
   the 52-year-old panic, while others are refugees from the as a result
   of referrals from houses of woman reports that her cancer is in remis-
   Sudan and Bosnia. LSCI staff work with worship. The Northwest Justice
   Project sion. local translators to make presentations (NJP) in
   Washington state utilized its part- Clients trusting legal services
   lawyers about the Earned Income Tax Credit and nership with faith-based
   groups to help a to assist them in potentially life-threatening other
   tax issues and help clients fill out their 52-year old woman with
   advanced cancer, legal disputes is a bond more easily forged tax forms.
   who was in her second round of chemo- when faith-based organizations
   are involved, "The presentations we make are therapy treatment when her
   medical cov- says Anne Malak, a staff attorney heading through churches
   and other locations with erage was wrongfully and abruptly stopped. the
   Senior Legal Services (SLS) program of connections to immigrant
   communities," A staffer at the faith-based group had at- the Legal Aid
   Society of Northeastern New says Dennis Groenenboom, LSCI Execu- tended
   a NJP community workshop and York. The SLS program, located in Albany,
   tive Director. "We have found that this is a thought the legal aid
   agency might be able N.Y., specifically targets seniors in the great-
   good way to try to make connections with to help. Sure enough, NJP took
   the case est economic peril. SLS led a recent presen- this group of
   clients." and helped the client maintain her chemo- tation entitled
   "Get Your Business in Or- Faith-based outreach is also an effec-
   therapy treatments without interruption and der" at Macedonia Baptist
   Church, assist- tive way for legal aid programs to help low- without
   substantial cost. NJP continues to ing seniors with powers of attorney
   and income clients facing the prospect of advise the client to ensure
   that further con- health care proxies. homelessness or confronting
   other hous- fusion about her medical coverage is "Outreach through
   faith-based organi- ing issues. LSC-funded Legal Services of avoided.
   zations or agencies allows seniors to discuss Greater Miami (LSMGI)
   offers such as- "I work in a one-attorney, one parale- topics that may
   be frightening or unpleas- sistance through a partnership with the gal
   office serving four counties," says the ant for them in a setting that
   is familiar and Camillus House, a homeless program of NJP's Stephen
   Gockley, who handles many safe," Malak says. "They may be more will-
   the Good Shepard religious order of the welfare-to-work cases referred
   by faith- ing to come forward to receive information Catholic Church.
   LSMGI attorneys as- based organizations. "We have to be vigi- and to
   ask important questions in such a signed to the Homeless Legal
   Assistance lantly concerned about efficiency in ser- setting,
   surrounded by people with whom Project conduct intake once a week at
   tran- vice to clients without sacrificing effective- they are familiar
   and trust." Summer 2001 Page 12 UPCOMING EVENTS Building State Justice
   Communities August - States across the country have made sweeping
   progress in administering legal aid since Legal September 2001 Services
   Corporation called for the creation of "state justice communities" six
   years ago, accord- ing to an LSC report. "Building State Justice
   Communities" (available at WA American Bar www.lsc.gov) identifies the
   18 states most MN ME Association Annual OR NH successful in
   implementing reforms Meeting since LSC-funded programs were re-
   Chicago, Illinois PA quired to develop integrated, state- NJ UT IL IN
   OH Aug. 2 - 5, 2001 wide delivery systems for legal ser- CO CA CO MO WV
   MD vices in 1995 (see map). Although each state faced a unique LSC
   Board SC set of obstacles, the 18 included in the re- of Directors
   Meeting port shared many successes: expanding Washington, D.C. area
   state funding for legal services, better FL Sept. 7 - 8, 2001
   coordinating advocacy and training among programs, N.Y. State Unified
   Court making the court system more responsive and accessible to
   self-represent- Model State System: Access to ing litigants,
   reconfiguring programs to strengthen Justice Community Justice
   Conference cooperation, increasing client access, more creatively State
   Justice Community Albany, NY involving the private bar in the delivery
   of civil legal assis- in progress Sept 11-12, 2001 tance, better
   utilizing technology, and developing statewide intake systems. Legal
   Services Corporation 750 First Street NE Washington, DC 20002 Phone
   202.336.8800 Fax 202.336.8959 w w w . l s c . g o v 1 - i n s i d e -
   Keeping the Faith 2LSC Diversity Dialogue 6Changing of the Guard
   8Helping Grandparents Produced by the Office of Governmental Relations
   and Public Affairs: Eric Kleiman, Press Secretary Catherine Sulzer,
   Deputy Director of Governmental Relations Sarah T. Zaffina, Senior
   Governmental Relations Assistant Sean Driscoll, Intern Stephanie
   Serrano, Intern Perry Wasserman, Intern
