http://idlastro.gsfc.nasa.gov/usage.htm

                NASA/GSFC Website Security and Privacy Statement


                             Security Statement

       This is a U.S. Government Public Information Exchange Resource

                You have accessed a U.S. Government Resource.

       This site is intended to be used by the public for information
                                  exchange.

     Any attempt to modify this resource or associated information other
                           than for instructed use

                is strictly prohibited and may be punishable

               under the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986.


      The Government may monitor and audit the usage of this resource.

    All persons are hereby notified that use of this resource constitutes
          consent for monitoring, keystroke recording or auditing.

                                    ****

   "To report a security incident involving a NASA system, please call the
       NASA Automated Systems Incident Response Capability (NASIRC) at
            800-762-7472, or if international, at 1-301-918-1970"

                                    ****

                              Privacy Statement

   This policy establishes how NASA will use information we gather about
   you from your visit to our website. The privacy of our customers is of
   utmost importance to NASA.

   If you visit a NASA site...
     * To read or download information:
       We may collect and store information for statistical purposes. For
       example, we may count the number of visitors to the different
       sections of our site to help us make them more useful to visitors.
       Similar information is gathered for anonymous ftp, remote account
       login, or for other comparable types of connections.
     * To send us an E-mail:
       By sending us an electronic mail message, you may be sending us
       personal information (e.g., name, address, E-mail address), as in
       an official Freedom of Information Act request. We may store the
       name and address of the requester in order to respond to the
       request or to otherwise resolve the subject matter of your E-mail.
     * To register:
       Some of our sites ask visitors who request specific information to
       fill out a registration form. For example, vendors looking for
       marketing opportunities by visiting our Electronic Grants or NASA
       Acquisition Internet Service sites may be asked to "register" to
       obtain copies of Requests for Proposals or other NASA
       opportunities. Other information which may be collected at these
       sites through questionnaires, feedback forms, or other means,
       enable us to determine a visitor's interests, with the goal of
       providing better service to our customers.

   We want to be very clear: regardless of the information being
   transmitted to NASA, we will protect all such information consistent
   with applicable law.


   Last update:  09 July 1999
