http://www.rtc.wa.gov/programs.htm

   [rtcbanner.gif]

                               Regional Programs

Short-Term and Long-Term Planning

  Metropolitan Transportation Plan

     The Metropolitan Transportation Plan (MTP) for Clark County is the
     region's principal transportation planning document. It represents a
     regional transportation plan for the metropolitan area of Clark
     County, developed through a coordinated process between local
     jurisdictions in order to develop regional solutions to
     transportation needs.
     The first Regional Transportation Plan (RTP) for Clark County was
     adopted in December 1982. An Interim Regional Transportation Plan,
     which acted as a framework for development of Growth Management Act
     (GMA) transportation elements, was adopted in September 1993 and the
     MTP for Clark County was adopted in December 1994. This MTP version
     represents a review and update of the adopted Plan. It is intended
     to be a plan to meet transportation needs over the next 20 years and
     a plan to direct the metropolitan transportation planning process.
     Transportation needs must be identified in the MTP before projects
     can be programmed for funding in the metropolitan Transportation
     Improvement Program.

  Transportation Improvement Program

     The Transportation Improvement Program (TIP) is a three-year
     priority list of federally funded transportation projects to be
     built within Clark County. In addition to federally funded
     transportation projects, the TIP includes a listing of all other
     transportation projects that utilize state and/or local funding
     sources. The TIP must be consistent with the Metropolitan
     Transportation Plan and meet clean air standards. In order for
     transportation projects to receive federal funds they must be
     included in the TIP.

  Regional Transportation Plans

     The Regional Transportation Plans (RTPs) for Klickitat County and
     Skamania County are the region’s principal transportation planning
     document. The first RTPs for Klickitat County and Skamania County
     were adopted in April 1995. The current RTPs were updated and
     re-adopted in April 1998. The RTPs are developed to meet the
     magnitude of transportation issues facing each region and the need
     for cooperation between jurisdictions in order to develop regional
     solutions. The RTPs are a plan which will meet the transportation
     needs over the next 20 years by implementing a regional
     transportation planning process.

   Send mail to webmaster@rtc.wa.gov with questions or comments about this
                                  web site.
     Copyright ©1992-2002, Regional Transportation Council, All Rights
                                  Reserved.
                 This page was last updated April 02, 2001.
