http://sec353.jpl.nasa.gov/okwon_report.pdf

   January 6, 2000 Pasadena, California MISSION TO MARS I began my
   internship at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory on June 21, 1999. And as I
   near the completion of my first internship tour here, I would like to
   reflect upon what I have learned, and more importantly, what I will
   bring back with me as I return to school. I feel very fortunate that I
   have had this opportunity. At an academic institution such as the
   University of Illinois, it is not all too difficult for one to find a
   job or internship with an engineering background. Employers are
   plentiful, as are the employees. On the other hand, JPL offers an
   experience unlike any other job, because it is the only functioning
   organization in the world to specialize in robotics and space
   exploration. In light of this, one must look at the problems
   encountered here differently from other fields. Answers are not readily
   available; each mission has a new purpose and novel technology
   incorporated in it. It is not just a modification of "last year's
   model." In order to understand the nature of the work and technology
   and ultimately find answers, I had to see the problem in two ways: 1)
   delve into the technical aspects, and 2) see laterally, or in other
   words, see the "bigger picture." The technology I dealt with was
   thermal control hardware for Mars Rover missions, specifically loop
   heat pipes. This system allows very robust thermal control without the
   use of huge power inputs, which is precisely what is needed for a
   long-duration mission to another planet. With the use of only a few
   batteries and heaters, most of the heat source came from Radioisotope
   Heating Units (RHUs) that were left over from previous missions.
   Thermal control was achieved by amazingly efficient heat transfer with
   ammonia flowing through the heat pipe with a valve directing the flow
   of heat either back into the system of electronics or out to a
   radiator. Also incorporated was a phase change module that would store
   heat through the natural process of phase change of dodecane. I learned
   very quickly that JPL deals with such sophisticated and complex systems
   all the time, and in order to truly comprehend the intricacies of them,
   one must dig deeply into the problem. My internship here lasted over
   six months, and thus, I was allowed the freedom and time to explore at
   such a deep level. Most of my time was spent learning how to model the
   loop heat pipe setup. This came through several different tools:
   SINDA/G (a thermal network analyzer for conduction and convection),
   Thermal Synthesizer System (radiation), and Thermal Desktop (general
   thermal analysis). With the aid of these programs, I was able to study
   and control very small details of the models: individual nodes,
   conductors, logic to command valves and variable properties, and
   libraries to replicate natural phenomenon such as phase change
   materials. Gradually, the model changed from a massive collection of
   nodes and conductors into a smaller, more effective, and refined model.
   With this model, I was able to learn more about the theoretical aspects
   of thermal engineering: when is free convection appropriate, how to
   distinguish between arithmetic or boundary nodes, what type of
   timesteps are required, and so on. Furthermore, it was a tool that I
   could use to analyze data that came from testing and to subsequently
   correlate the data in order to produce a model that could be used for
   various Mars environments. As each change was applied to the model and
   different answers would result, I was digging deeper and deeper into
   the problem. Yet with all the power that the model presents the user,
   it is still limited. It only offers a single perspective, and this can
   be limiting if one is not careful. Equally as important as modeling is
   another crucial aspect of problem-solving: testing. At times, I was so
   deeply engrossed in the model that I lost sight of the end goal. But
   one quickly regains focus when in the lab. Each time I returned to the
   lab, I was able to see the actual hardware, with all of its beauty as
   well as limitations. A system can look perfect in a modeling sense, but
   the real world isn't as forgiving. By testing and analyzing the
   results, I often find things I would never grasp if I dealt only with
   computer modeling. Parasitic heat leaks and insulation became very
   important issues, and it was much easier to arrive at some of the
   solutions with the first-hand experience in the lab. Different
   orientations had to be accounted for if the Rover was to land in an
   awkward position, and this was also accomplished in the lab.
   Additionally, different environments had to be accounted for, depending
   on where on Mars the Rover landed. Even helping the setup of the
   experiments revealed to me that certain things were too heavy or too
   delicate, or that the model could not possibly capture details like a
   complicated shape of a component. With the experimental side of
   problem-solving, I was able to see from a broader point of view.
   Although these two facets of engineering seem to be at different poles,
   I realized how well they complement each other. Even more critical is
   the necessity of these two functions to be able to work hand in hand to
   come up with an accurate solution. "To go where no man has gone
   before", whether it be physically to Mars or intellectually in our
   minds, we must be able to see both deeply into the technical side and
   laterally across different tasks. As I think back on what has been
   accomplished, I feel confident in saying that the mission was a
   success.
