http://buffalo.fbi.gov/contact/fo/bffo/koppress.htm

                                Press Release

                              October 17, 2000

                   RE: UNITED STATES v. JAMES CHARLES KOPP

       United States Attorney Denise E. O'Donnell and Assistant Attorney
   General Bill Lann Lee of the Civil Rights Division, Department of
   Justice, announced today that a United States Grand Jury has returned a
   two-count indictment against James Charles Kopp, charging him with
   using deadly force to prevent Dr. Barnett Slepian from providing
   reproductive health service, in violation of Title 18, United States
   Code, Section 248 [Count I], and with using a firearm to commit a crime
   of violence, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section
   924(c) and (j) [Count II].

       The indictment was returned at this time due to the expiration of
   the term of the grand jury handling the investigation. With the filing
   of the indictment, the federal complaint filed on May 8, 1999 is
   withdrawn.

       Kopp was indicted by an Erie County, New York grand jury on June
   24, 1999 for violating Section 125.25 of the New York State Penal Code,
   murder in the second degree, Section 120.25 of the New York Penal Code,
   Reckless Endangerment in the first degree, and Section 265.02-1,
   Criminal Possession of a Weapon in the third degree.

       It should be noted that the fact that a defendant has been charged
   with a crime . . . is merely an accusation and the defendant is
   presumed innocent until and unless proven guilty. (Disciplinary Rule
   7-107(B)(6)).

       On October 23, 1998, at approximately 10:00 p.m., Dr. Barnett
   Slepian was killed as he stood in the kitchen of his East Amherst, New
   York home. He was shot by a single gunshot which entered his home
   through a rear window. The shot was fired from a wooded area behind the
   home. Dr. Slepian was an obstetrician-gynecologist who was one of the
   physicians performing abortions at the Buffalo GYN Women Services
   Clinic located at 2500 Main Street, Buffalo, New York. Dr. Slepian also
   maintained an obstetrics and gynecology practice at his office on Maple
   Road in Amherst, New York.

       The charges are a result of the joint investigative efforts of the
   Amherst Police Department, under the direction of Chief John Moslow,
   the New York State Police, under the direction of Major Michael
   McManus, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, under the direction
   of Special Agent in Charge Bernard A. Tolbert, working with the Erie
   District Attorney’s Office, under the direction of Erie County District
   Attorney Frank J. Clark, the United States Attorney's Office and the
   Civil Rights Division of the Department of Justice. Assistance was
   provided to the investigation by the Bureau of Alcohol Tobacco and
   Firearms, under the direction of Acting Special Agent in Charge Robert
   Wilson.

       Federal and State arrest warrants remain pending against Kopp, who
   is a fugitive. James Charles Kopp is identified as a white male, 5'11",
   155 to 170 pounds, blue eyes, and red/brown hair. He wears eyeglasses.
   His date of birth is 8/2/54 and place of birth is California. His
   social security number is 558-86-1346, although he has used other
   social security numbers. Kopp has used numerous aliases including Clyde
   Swenson, Jim Cobb, and Jack Crotty. Several photographs of Kopp are
   available from the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Kopp was known to
   live and work in the Jersey City, New Jersey and metropolitan New York
   City areas. He has skills in carpentry, light construction, telephone
   installation, masonry, welding, locksmith and typing. He has no
   permanent address and has traveled extensively throughout the United
   States and abroad.

       James Charles Kopp was placed on the Federal Bureau of
   Investigation’s Top 10 Most Wanted List on June 7, 1999. The Federal
   Bureau of Investigation continues to work daily to locate and apprehend
   Kopp. Anyone with information regarding Kopp’s location should contact
   the Buffalo Division of the Federal Bureau of Investigation at (716)
   856-7800 or their local FBI office.


                              Buffalo Home Page
