http://www.fsis.usda.gov/FOIA/readroom.htm

   FSIS Symbol Food Safety and Inspection Service
               United States Department of Agriculture
               Washington, D.C. 20250-3700

   Freedom of Information Act

   Updated September 19, 2001

         Food Safety and Inspection Service Electronic Reading Room

   FSIS maintains a public reading room in Room 102, Cotton Annex
   Building, 300 12th Street, SW, Washington, DC. The reading room is open
   to the public from 8:30 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. and from 1:00 to 4:30 p.m.,
   Mondays through Fridays, except on Federal holidays. Members of the
   public may inspect, and if desired, obtain copies of records contained
   in the reading room.

   As of November 1, 1997, agencies are required to maintain electronic
   reading rooms which make available via computer telecommunications,
   reading room records. However, agencies are required to make available
   electronically, only those records which were created by the agency on
   or after November 1, 1996. As a result, the public reading room in
   Washington, DC may contain copies of records which are not also
   available through the electronic reading room on this web site.


   *Note: To read and print a PDF file, you must have the Adobe® Acrobat®
   Reader installed on your PC. You can download a version suitable for
   your system, free of charge, from the Adobe Home Page. Adobe also
   provides tools and information to help make Adobe PDF files accessible
   to users with visual disabilities at http://access.adobe.com.

   Open book TIP: The Reading Room is frequently updated. However, if you
   do not find the document you are seeking, please try our Search page.

   Contents of the Reading Room
   TYPE OF DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION
   Open book Final Agency Opinions Decisions made in matters other than
   rulemaking which result from structured proceedings. These decisions
   are rendered after consideration of statutory or administratively
   defined standards.
   Open book Policy Statements Statements which explain or clarify the
   application of laws or regulations and which have general
   applicability. Regulations and policy statements published in the
   Federal Register are not included here.
   Open book Administrative Staff Manuals Manuals or directives which
   provide instructions to Agency employees and which affect the public in
   some way.
   Open book Popular FOIA Records Records which have been frequently
   requested or are likely to be requested by many and are of general
   interest to the public.
   Open book FOIA Handbook Handbook that provides information about FOIA
   and guidance on how to make a FOIA request.
   Open book Annual FOIA Report Information about the handling of FOIA
   requests by the Agency for the fiscal year.
   Open book Description of Major Information and Locator Systems (GILS)
   FSIS' major records systems and means for obtaining information from
   these systems are described in the Government Information Locator
   System (GILS). Search on "FSIS".
   Open book Reading Room Index An alphabetical listing of items available
   in the e-FOIA Reading Room.

   Links to Related Information

     * FSIS FOIA Home Page
     * FSIS Home Page
     * Recent Federal Register Notices (FSIS) and links to National
       Archives and Records Administration (NARA)
     * Other USDA Electronic Reading Rooms
     * USDA Home Page

   banner

   For Further Information Contact:
   FSIS Executive Management Staff
   Room 1140-South Building
   14th and Independence Avenue, SW
   Washington, DC 20250
   Phone: (202) 690-3882
   Fax: (202) 205-0158
   E-mail: fsis.foia@usda.gov

   FSIS FOIA Home Page | Search FSIS Site | FSIS Home Page | USDA Home
   Page
