http://lite.gsa.gov/nov01.pdf

   ITAC SDC Newsletter Volume 1, Issue 1 November 19, 2001 News You Can
   Use Change is in the air. In the past few months, the Millennia Lite
   Procuring Contracting Officers (PCO) have been making major changes to
   the current contracts under the Service Improvement provision, H23.
   With the first year completed, the PCO saw a need to redefine the
   existing skill levels. The new skills now represent a logical extension
   of the existing skill levels. These new skill levels accommodate the
   ongoing changes in Information Technology and technology services. The
   new skills are a result of the increasing specialties required to react
   to the changes in Information Technology envisioned under Millennia
   Lite. The addition of these new skills will allow the government, via
   Millennia Lite industry partners, to better IT Acquisition Center
   service its customer's current, as well as future, needs. To view the
   new skills visit our web Points of Contact: site at
   http://lite.gsa.gov. Client Services Representative Shan Clark Toll
   Free 877-929-ITAC (4822) ITAC Hosts Reverse Auction Pager 800-651-0317
   The Information Technology Acquisition Center (ITAC) collaborated with
   FTS Office of Shan.clark@gsa.gov Service Development Business
   Applications Development to provide an IT solution to a contracting
   process. Under a pilot program known as Buyers.gov Reverse Auction
   Exchange, Millennia Lite Procuring the FTS team arranged a reverse
   auction for computer equipment for a customer at MacDill Contracting
   Officers AFB, FL. FA1: Tom Thomas ITAC contracted with CISglobal of
   Silver Spring, MD, to provide auction enabler services. 404-331-6115
   CISglobal, a minority woman-owned firm, is a leader in e-Procurement
   solutions. tommy.thomas@gsa.gov FA2: Patricia Renfro The thirty-two
   minute auction resulted in a saving of fifteen percent below the
   government 817-978-0026 estimate. Reverse auctions are most effective
   when the estimated dollar value of the patricia.renfro@gsa.gov
   requirements is $500,000 or higher. For more information contact Jo
   Davis. FA3: Angela Joslin 404-331-0156 IT Acquisition Center Announces
   Toll-Free Help Desk angela.joslin@gsa.gov The Federal Technology
   Service Information Technology Acquisition Center (ITAC) FA4: Greg
   Norman announces its new toll-free number, 877-929-ITAC (4822). The
   ITAC awards and administers 817-978-0027 the Millennia Lite contracts,
   which are worldwide in scope. greg.norman@gsa.gov Millennia Lite
   features 43 contracts in four Functional Areas, covering the full
   spectrum of IT ITAC Co-Directors: services. The contracts are "total
   solution" vehicles, which allow for everything from the analysis of
   hardware/software tools used for implementation to ongoing operational
   support of Atlanta Office an IT solution, including the purchase of
   hardware, software and supplies related to task performance. Jo Davis
   401 W. Peachtree, Suite 2700 For additional information about the
   Millennia Lite contracts, please feel free to contact us at Atlanta, GA
   30308 our toll-free phone number, or visit our web site at
   http://lite.gsa.gov. 404-331-0389 jo.davis@gsa.gov Millennia Lite
   Completes First Year of Contract Millennia Lite completes its first
   year with 187 task orders for a total dollar value of Fort Worth Office
   $126,886,796. This has been a great year for the program and the
   Information Technology Acquisition Center would like to thank our
   customers and industry partners for your Kathy Garrett 819 Taylor
   Street, Room 11A30 outstanding support throughout the year. As we start
   our second year with Millennia Lite, we Fort Worth, TX 76102 look
   forward to serving your information technology needs. 817-978-3434
   kathy.garrett@gsa.gov Web Site : http://lite.gsa.gov Millennia Lite 1
   ITAC SDC Newsletter Volume 1, Issue 1 November 19, 2001 ITAC SDC awards
   new IT contracts for DoD Office GSA awarded two contracts that could be
   worth a maximum value of $144 million over the life of the contracts to
   support a Department of Defense program in gathering the best ideas,
   algorithms, and emerging high performance software tools. Each contract
   is for three base years and includes five option years. High
   Performance Technologies of Arlington, VA., was awarded a $36 million
   cost-plus- fixed-fee contract, and a $108 million cost-reimbursable
   contract was awarded to MOS University Consortium (comprised of
   Mississippi State University, Ohio Supercomputing IT Acquisition Center
   Center and San Diego Supercomputing Center) through Mississippi State
   University, Upcoming Events Sponsored Programs Administration. November
   2001 Part of GSA's Federal Technology Service, the Information
   Technology Acquisition Center, SDC Directors Meeting, Solution
   Development Center (ITAC SDC) co-located in Atlanta and Fort Worth,
   executed Biloxi, MS these contracts. The ITAC SDC is well recognized as
   a center for acquisition expertise. ADP Councils of the Southeast High
   Performance Technologies will work to enhance collaborative and
   distance learning & Southwest Fall Conference, technologies to users at
   Aeronautical Systems Center (ASC), Wright-Patterson Air Force Base
   Biloxi, MS near Dayton, OH, and Army Research Laboratory, at Aberdeen
   Proving Ground, in Aberdeen, MD. The expected completion date is May
   31,2009. The face value of the base contract is ITAC SDC Off-site,
   $7,644,778. The total projected ceiling value is $36million. Bandera,
   TX Mississippi State University will focus on enhancing computational
   environments, enabling technologies, education, outreach and training
   to users located at ASC, Wright-Patterson AFB, December 2001 the Naval
   Oceanographic Office at John C. Stennis Space Center in Mississippi and
   the U.S. Region 5 CSC, Army Engineer Research and Development Center in
   Vicksburg, MS. The expected Chicago, IL completion date is also slated
   for May 31, 2009. The face value of the base contract is $23,435,398.
   The total projected ceiling value is $108 million. Region 6 CSC, Kansas
   City, MO Directed by DoD High Performance Computing Management Office,
   the Programming Environment and Training (PET) program provides
   world-class, high-end/high performance Region 8 CSC, computing
   capability to the DoD science and technology and test and evaluation
   communities. Denver, CO The technological advantage of advancing
   application and tools software capabilities and January 2002 hardware
   access then benefits the work of the DoD scientists and engineers in
   those areas. For more information about the contracts, visit the ITAC
   SDC web site: http://lite.gsa.gov. IT Directors Meeting
   Northeast/Caribbean Region & ITAC SDC Award $50 Million Contract The
   Northeast/Caribbean Region FTS in cooperation with the FTS Information
   Technology Acquisition Center awarded a contract to General Dynamics
   for the U.S. Army, Program Manager, Warfighter Information Network
   Tactical (PM WIN-T). PM WINT is empowered to use ingenuity, creativity,
   and imagination in acquiring a Terrestrial Transport System (TTS).
   Current Plans envision that this system will carry the bulk of the data
   required by division-, corps- and theater-level commanders. The
   objective of the TTS is to ensure that Army ground forces gain
   information dominance in a high-technology battlefield envisioned for
   the next millennium. This contract encompasses systems engineering,
   related products, and field support services to assist PM WIN-T in its
   mission to provide ongoing enhancements, refinements, and improvements
   to the AN/TTC/TYC-39 family of switches, network management, and
   control equipment and related ancillary equipment. For additional
   details, contact Contracting Officer David Monahan at 212-264-3571. For
   information regarding the ITAC SDC, contact Kathy Garrett at
   817-978-3434 or Jo Davis at 404-331-0389. Millennia Lite 2
