http://ast.faa.gov/pdf/IWG_rpt_02_08_2000.pdf

   THE FUTURE MANAGEMENT AND USE OF THE U.S. SPACE LAUNCH BASES AND RANGES
   REPORT OF THE INTERAGENCY WORKING GROUP February 8, 2000 Co-Chairs:
   Office of Science and Technology Policy National Security Council
   Working Group Member Organizations: Office of Management and Budget
   Department of Defense Department of Commerce Department of
   Transportation United States Air Force Federal Aviation Administration
   National Aeronautics and Space Administration National Reconnaissance
   Office Report of the Interagency Working Group on the Future Management
   and Use of the U.S. Space Launch Bases and Ranges Table of Contents
   EXECUTIVE
   SUMMARY................................................................
   ...........................................ii CHAPTER 1:
   INTRODUCTION...........................................................
   ..................................... 1 CHAPTER 2: ROLES AND
   RESPONSIBILITIES
   .................................................................. 3
   Base Ownership
   .......................................................................
   .............................................................. 3
   Supporting Infrastructure
   .......................................................................
   ................................................ 4 Space Launch
   Operations Facilities and Systems
   .......................................................................
   ........... 5 Safety Responsibilities and
   Operations.............................................................
   ..................................... 8 Evolving
   Responsibilities.......................................................
   ................................................................ 9
   Summary
   .......................................................................
   .......................................................................
   10 CHAPTER 3: CHALLENGES
   .......................................................................
   ........................... 11 Key Elements of National Space Policy
   and Federal
   Law...................................................................
   11 U.S. Government Support Enabled by the National Policy and Legal
   Framework ............................. 11 Recent Developments and
   Trends.................................................................
   ....................................... 12 Limitations in the National
   Policy and Legal Framework
   ................................................................... 12
   Accommodating Commercial Customers and Their
   Needs.................................................................
   13 Financial Issues and Opportunities
   .......................................................................
   ............................... 15 Roles, Resources, and Requirements
   for Public Safety
   .......................................................................
   16 Next-Generation Technology Development and Demonstration for Launch
   Ranges.......................... 16 CHAPTER 4: ALTERNATIVE FUTURES AND
   MANAGEMENT MODELS.................. 17 Public-Private
   Partnership............................................................
   ........................................................ 18 Commercial
   Operation..............................................................
   ........................................................... 19
   National, State, or Regional Spaceport Authorities
   .......................................................................
   ...... 20 Full Federal
   Funding................................................................
   ............................................................ 22 CHAPTER
   5: NATIONAL STRATEGY, RECOMMENDATIONS, & CONCLUSION... 24 Recommended
   National
   Strategy...............................................................
   .......................................... 24 Recommendations for the
   Near Term
   .......................................................................
   ........................... 25
   Conclusion.............................................................
   .......................................................................
   ........ 33 ANNEXES Annex A  Terms of
   Reference..............................................................
   ............................................ A-1 Annex B  Current
   Policy, Law, and Implementation
   Directives...................................................... B-1
   Annex C  Historical Perspective on the Evolution of U.S. Space Launch
   Bases and Ranges ......... C-1 Annex D  Comparison Between U.S. and
   Foreign Space Launch Bases and Ranges ..................... D-1 Annex E
    Current and Projected Workloads at U.S. Space Launch Bases and
   Ranges....................E-1 Future Management and Use of the U.S.
   Space Launch Bases and Ranges EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Space launch is
   important to U.S. national security and economic well-being. As such,
   it has been a policy goal of the U.S. government to foster a strong,
   internationally competitive, U.S. commercial space launch industry and
   to enhance cooperation between the federal government and the
   commercial space sector. Good progress has been made toward these
   policy goals, most notably through the public-private partnership
   conceived and supported by the Air Force in the Evolved Expendable
   Launch Vehicle (EELV) program. U.S. commercial space launches enhance
   national security by lowering costs and improving reliability, and this
   connection will be even more important with the advent of EELV. The
   majority of U.S. expendable space launches are conducted from two major
   launch bases operated by the Air Force at Cape Canaveral Air Station
   (CCAS), Florida, and Vandenberg Air Force Base (VAFB), California.
   Human space flight missions are launched from NASA's Kennedy Space
   Center (KSC), adjacent to CCAS. The space launch facilities and range
   complexes associated with these bases are national assets employed by a
   wide variety of national security, civil, and commercial users. These
   multiple users have diverse technical and support needs. Until
   recently, the bulk of the expendable launch missions (and, therefore,
   the bulk of the activities at the major bases and ranges) have been
   related to national security. However, since the mid-1990s, commercial
   space launch activities have grown as U.S. commercial companies
   responded to the increase in global demand for commercial satellite
   launch services. In the spring of 1999, the Assistant to the President
   for National Security Affairs and the Assistant to the President for
   Science and Technology formed an Interagency Working Group (IWG) to
   review the future management and use of the primary U.S. space launch
   bases and ranges at CCAS and VAFB. This review was undertaken in
   response to issues raised as a result of the successful growth of U.S.
   commercial space launch activity since 1994 and the increasing reliance
   of government agencies on commercially provided launch services. This
   review was to include an assessment of the roles and responsibilities
   of the government and U.S. commercial space sector with respect to the
   operation and modernization of the two major launch bases and ranges.
   The Report of the Interagency Working Group on Future Management and
   Use of the U.S. Space Launch Bases and Ranges examines the current
   roles and responsibilities of federal government agencies and the U.S.
   commercial space sector and the major policy and management issues
   resulting from the shift in launch base use from its historic
   government-dominated basis toward more commercial, market-driven
   activities. Following discussion of the issues, the report presents
   alternatives that outline several possible paths along which U.S. space
   launch capability could develop over the next one to two decades.
   Finally, the report offers recommendations, which represent the
   appropriate next steps in the nation's evolving management of the U.S.
   space launch bases and ranges. Report of the Interagency Working Group
   Page ii Future Management and Use of the U.S. Space Launch Bases and
   Ranges Roles and Responsibilities Figure 1 illustrates the current and
   planned division of management and funding responsibilities among
   federal government agencies, government contractors, the U.S.
   commercial space sector, and state-sponsored spaceports operating at
   CCAS and VAFB. Each of the five major elements that make up the U.S.
   space launch bases and ranges is highlighted. As shown, prior to 1990,
   most responsibilities for the major U.S. space launch bases and ranges
   belonged to the federal government (particularly the U.S. Air Force),
   though much of the operation and maintenance for base infrastructure
   and range support was performed by government contractors and safety
   analysis and system maintenance were supported by government
   contractors. Today, commercial launch operators and spaceports have
   environmental responsibilities for their own activities at the launch
   sites. Similarly, commercial operators and spaceports are responsible
   for operating and maintaining the satellite and launch vehicle
   processing facilities and launch complexes that they lease or license
   from the Air Force or construct on property leased from the Air Force.
   Commercial operators are also responsible for some aspects of ground
   safety for their own employees and operations at these locations. A
   number of changes will take place over the next few years. DoD plans to
   transition the operation and maintenance (O&M) of the utility systems
   on the launch bases to commercial companies. Additionally, when the
   EELV family of vehicles becomes operational in 2002, the basic concept
   behind launch operations will change. Most notably, the EELV operators
   will be responsible for building and maintaining the EELV facilities
   and launch pads (using real estate = USG Responsibility = USG Contract
   PAST TODAY WITH EELV WITH RANGE = Coml Responsibility <1990 OPERATIONAL
   STANDARDIZATION = State Responsibility & AUTOMATION (2002) COMPLETE
   (2006) BASE OWNERSHIP SUPPORTING INFRASTRUCTURE SPACE LAUNCH OPS
   FACILITIES AND SYSTEMS RANGE FACILITIES AND SYSTEMS SAFETY
   RESPONSIBILITY AND SYSTEMS Figure 1. Current and Planned Division of
   Responsibilities Report of the Interagency Working Group Page iii
   Future Management and Use of the U.S. Space Launch Bases and Ranges and
   some facilities leased from the government) and the government will
   purchase launch services. As a result, the government will maintain
   only a few unique satellite processing facilities and those launch
   facilities unique to national security and national test and evaluation
   needs. Spaceports in Florida and California are also more directly
   involved under the EELV concept. Not only have the spaceports arranged
   hundreds of millions of dollars in financing to assist the EELV
   operators, but also they will manage some of the facility construction.
   As a result, while the heritage launch systems are retired over the
   coming years, a larger fraction of the launch operations conducted on
   the launch bases will be performed by commercial EELV operators. Much
   like today's commercial operators, the EELV operators will also be
   responsible for the ground safety of their own employees. As shown, the
   U.S. government is already sharing responsibilities with the commercial
   sector and spaceports and is pursuing a path to share significantly
   more responsibilities with state governments and commercial operators.
   The Air Force plans to continue the Range Standardization and
   Automation (RSA) program to improve operability, reliability, and
   supportability of both the Eastern and Western Ranges while reducing
   operations and maintenance costs. Simultaneously, the government will
   continue to restructure and competitively source range O&M, improvement
   and modernization (I&M), and range sustainment workload in ways that
   improve efficiency and allow government agencies to share more of the
   direct costs with commercial range users. Challenges Although the basic
   legal and policy framework appears to be adequate to support the
   current level of government and commercial space launch activity, this
   framework may require revision in the future if the commercial
   satellite and launch market continues to grow. In particular, the IWG
   is concerned that the "excess capacity" constraints in the law may
   inhibit the future growth of the commercial space launch industry and
   limit the potential synergy between government and private sector
   interests. Regardless, other present symptoms indicate the current
   workload is straining management, operations, maintenance, improvement,
   and modernization processes at both major launch bases and ranges.
   Recommended National Strategy In response to these issues and other
   concerns raised by commercial industry during the course of the review,
   the IWG developed a recommended national strategy. This strategy
   (summarized in Figure 2) proposes building on the already planned
   changes in roles and responsibilities with a series of additional
   near-term steps that will enhance and expand the government-private
   partnership. The working group also defined a range of alternative
   paths that could be considered in the future if federal, state, local,
   and commercial markets or national needs require. Finally, the working
   group developed a series of near-term recommendations regarding the
   management and use of these bases and ranges. Some of these near-term
   recommendations are achievable within current policies and statutes,
   and all of them focus on expanding the federal- state-industry
   partnership to enable more direct involvement of civil and commercial
   space sector users, including spaceports. These recommendations include
   the following: Report of the Interagency Working Group Page iv Future
   Management and Use of the U.S. Space Launch Bases and Ranges *
   National, State, Current & Planned or Regional Define Transition
   Division of Spaceport? to Neither Pre-Select, Roles & Responsibilities
   nor Preclude Possible Alternative * Full Commercial Future Options.
   Operation? Expand Partnership Far-term Outcomes USG-Commercial-States
   Will Be Driven by Market Growth. * Public-Private Near-Term
   Recommendations in Chapter 5 Recommendations Partnership? * Propose
   alternative management structures to provide for Policy & Law greater
   user voice and improve operational flexibility in Chapter 5 * Pursue
   improved efficiencies in range operations * Encourage, permit, and
   maximize use of non-federal * Full Federal funding sources Funding? *
   Explore options for replacing the "excess capacity" Enable constraint
   in law and allow * Develop common range safety requirements and markets
   and ensure FAA resources for safety capabilities to develop * Develop
   Air Force-NASA plan for next-generation range technology development
   INCREASING UNCERTAINTY Near-Term Mid-Term Far-Term Figure 2.
   Recommended National Strategy * Propose alternative management
   structures to allow commercial and government users of the U.S. space
   launch bases and ranges adequate opportunity to communicate their
   requirements so they can be actively considered and factored into
   decisions on improvements and operations with the goals of providing
   greater user voice and improving operational flexibility. * Pursue
   means of achieving improved efficiencies in range operations. *
   Encourage, permit, and maximize use of nonfederal funding sources
   (especially from states and spaceports) for the continued maintenance
   and modernization of the space launch bases and ranges to meet national
   needs for space transportation. * Explore options for replacing the
   "excess capacity" constraint in the current policy and legal framework,
   while retaining priority access for national security and critical
   civil sector missions, to allow a more complete partnership to develop
   between the federal government and the U.S. commercial space sector,
   including States and spaceports. * Develop common range safety
   requirements for government, civil, and commercial launches at federal
   and nonfederal launch sites and ensure that Federal Aviation
   Administration (FAA) resources are commensurate with its statutory
   requirements and safety responsibilities. * The Air Force and NASA
   should develop a plan to examine, explore, and proceed with next-
   generation range technology development and demonstration, with a
   focused charter to Report of the Interagency Working Group Page v
   Future Management and Use of the U.S. Space Launch Bases and Ranges
   improve safety, increase flexibility and capacity, and lower costs for
   reusable and expendable launch vehicles. NASA should designate KSC as a
   National Center for next-generation Reusable Launch Vehicle (RLV) range
   technology development and demonstration. The midterm step in the
   recommended strategy is to pursue changes to law to eliminate
   constraints and enable a transition path to let market forces and the
   pace of new developments help determine which future scenario makes the
   most sense to pursue for the far term, while retaining priority access
   for national security and critical civil sector missions. The
   uncertainties associated with potential demand for commercial satellite
   and launch services, coupled with the need for flexibility and agility
   as we move to an uncertain future, leads the working group to recommend
   that the federal government should take no actions now that would
   either select or preclude any of the possible alternative futures in
   Figure 2. The working group believes the U.S. government should let
   market forces and the pace of new developments help determine which
   future scenario makes the most sense to pursue for the far term. Report
   of the Interagency Working Group Page vi Future Management and Use of
   the U.S. Space Launch Bases and Ranges CHAPTER 1: INTRODUCTION Space
   launch is important to U.S. national security and economic well-being.
   As such it has been a policy goal of the U.S. government to foster a
   strong, internationally competitive, U.S. commercial space launch
   industry and to seek to enhance cooperation between the federal
   government and the commercial space sector. Good progress has been made
   toward these policy goals, most notably through the public-private
   partnership conceived and supported by the Air Force in the Evolved
   Expendable Launch Vehicle (EELV) program. Commercial industry has also
   made considerable strides toward becoming internationally competitive
   and state-sponsored and private spaceports are becoming a major force
   in the space launch business. The majority of United States expendable
   space launches are conducted from two major launch bases operated by
   the Air Force at Cape Canaveral Air Station (CCAS), Florida, and
   Vandenberg Air Force Base (VAFB), California. Manned missions are
   launched from NASA's Kennedy Space Center (KSC), adjacent to CCAS. The
   space launch facilities and range complexes associated with these bases
   are national assets used by a wide variety of national security, civil,
   and commercial users. These multiple users have diverse technical and
   support needs. The two space launch range complexes consist of
   technical support equipment (telemetry receivers, optical recording and
   tracking equipment, and radars), flight safety systems, and command,
   control, communications, and computer systems necessary to provide
   countdown services and supervisory functions. The Eastern Range (based
   at CCAS and its support base at Patrick AFB, Florida) and Western Range
   (based at VAFB) are dispersed over large areas of the globe and provide
   support for launch and reentry of expendable and manned launch
   vehicles, national test and evaluation activities (such as
   Intercontinental Ballistic Missile and Sea Launched Ballistic Missile
   testing), and space surveillance. In addition, supporting organizations
   provide security, disaster control response, communications, and many
   other logistical and support functions. Until recently, the bulk of the
   expendable launch missions (and, therefore, the bulk of the activities
   at the major bases and ranges) have been related to U.S. government
   civil and national security activities. However, since the mid-1990s
   commercial space launch activities have grown as U.S. commercial
   companies responded to the increase in global demand for commercial
   satellite launch services. In the spring of 1999, the Assistant to the
   President for National Security Affairs and the Assistant to the
   President for Science and Technology initiated a review of the future
   management and use of the primary U.S. space launch bases and ranges at
   CCAS and VAFB. The review was necessitated by the growth of commercial
   space launch activities, which has resulted in new challenges and
   opportunities at both locations. The Air Force estimates that
   commercial launch activities now constitute about forty percent of the
   launch manifest at Cape Canaveral and Vandenberg. (Note: The launch
   manifest does not include other range support activities like
   aeronautical testing, space surveillance support, range upgrades and
   modernization, or general maintenance.) Although recent projections for
   future commercial growth have been revised downward, it appears that
   commercial activity will continue to form a major part of the workload
   (and may eventually become the dominant activity) at these two primary
   space launch centers now and into the future. In Fiscal Year 2002,
   Report of the Interagency Working Group Page 1 of 34 Future Management
   and Use of the U.S. Space Launch Bases and Ranges the government will
   begin a new era in expendable launch activities with the advent of the
   EELV family of vehicles. With EELV, the government will purchase
   commercial-like launch services instead of launch vehicles, further
   increasing the involvement and importance of a strong commercial launch
   industry. These factors, combined with government and industry concerns
   about the stresses caused by current and projected commercial activity,
   led to questions about whether the federal government should revise the
   operation, management, or ownership of CCAS and VAFB. This report
   presents the results of the Interagency Working Group (IWG) review. The
   current operating regime for the launch sites is described in Chapter
   Two; in many respects these practices reflect the evolution of the
   national space programs (a survey of which is provided in Annex C). The
   challenges associated with dealing with larger numbers of commercial
   launches are detailed in Chapter Three. Chapter Four presents a number
   of possible alternatives to continued government dominance of the
   launch sites and presents the review's findings that major changes are
   not at present warranted or feasible. Chapter Five therefore presents
   recommendations for changes that can be implemented promptly, will be
   effective in resolving current difficulties, and that could encourage
   the development of conditions propitious to an even larger role for
   private enterprise, along with a proposed national strategy It is clear
   that U.S. commercial space launches enhance national security by
   lowering costs and improving reliability, and this connection will be
   even more important with the advent of EELV. The IWG is confident that
   the actions recommended in this report will set the stage for further
   commercial growth, will benefit both government and the private sector,
   and will continue the success story begun more than a decade ago.
   Report of the Interagency Working Group Page 2 of 34 Future Management
   and Use of the U.S. Space Launch Bases and Ranges CHAPTER 2: ROLES AND
   RESPONSIBILITIES The current roles and responsibilities for the
   management, operation, maintenance, improvement, modernization, and
   sustainment of the U.S. space launch bases and ranges are divided among
   DoD, NASA, and the U.S. commercial space sector. The FAA licenses and
   regulates U.S. commercial launch, site, and reentry activities. There
   are five major elements that make up the U.S. space launch bases and
   ranges: (1) base ownership, (2) supporting infrastructure, (3) space
   launch operations facilities and systems, (4) range facilities and
   systems, and (5) safety responsibilities and operations. These are
   shown in Table 1 along with current responsibilities. Table 1. Current
   Division of Responsibilities Element Current Division of
   Responsibilities Base Ownership USG owns real estate and manages real
   property processes, but commercial launch operators are responsible for
   environmental documentation and compliance on sites they use Supporting
   Infrastructure USG owns, operates, and maintains roads and utility
   systems for entire base; NASA Wallops Flight Facility shares
   responsibilities with users Space Launch Operations USG owns, operates,
   and maintains payload processing facilities and the Facilities and
   Systems active launch complexes used to support USG missions;
   commercial launch operators operate and maintain facilities they use
   exclusively Range Facilities and USG owns, operates, and maintains;
   commercial launch operators pay Systems "direct costs" for use in
   support of commercial missions Safety Responsibilities and USG has
   safety responsibilities and conducts safety operations Operations Base
   Ownership Base ownership refers to ownership of the launch base and
   range real estate. Federal government agencies currently hold the
   responsibilities associated with base ownership at the primary U.S.
   space launch bases. The Air Force has these responsibilities at CCAS,
   including the headquarters base at Patrick AFB, Florida, and VAFB. NASA
   has these responsibilities at the Kennedy Space Center (KSC), Florida
   and Wallops Flight Facility (WFF), Virginia As landlords and stewards
   for these bases, the Air Force and NASA are responsible for the
   following: * Land-use planning, including land and facility assignments
   and development plans for government and commercial users. * Lease and
   license processes and approvals for use of real property, including
   negotiating, maintaining, and managing leases for exclusive, long-term
   use of land and facilities by Report of the Interagency Working Group
   Page 3 of 34 Future Management and Use of the U.S. Space Launch Bases
   and Ranges commercial operators and real property licenses for shared
   use of land and facilities with government programs. * Stewardship of
   natural resources, including compliance with environmental regulations,
   oversight of leaseholder compliance with environmental regulations, and
   obtaining environmental approval for new uses. As landowner, the
   federal government is responsible for managing environmental baseline
   surveys and approval and permit processes for government programs and
   commercial users by interfacing with regulatory agencies and the
   public. Commercial users are responsible for paying the direct costs
   associated with this management and for producing their own
   documentation required to complete these processes. Additional
   environmental responsibilities are assigned to commercial launch and
   launch site operators through the Commercial Space Operations Support
   Agreement, real property leases and licenses, and the EELV contract.
   Supporting Infrastructure Supporting infrastructure at the U.S. space
   launch bases and ranges includes utilities (such as water, gas, and
   electricity), roads, security and fire protection, disaster management,
   medical care, office space, airfield operations, and other common
   facilities and services. The Air Force and NASA are responsible for
   operations and maintenance (O&M) and improvement and modernization
   (I&M) of the supporting infrastructure at the launch bases and ranges
   they own. The majority of the O&M and I&M for the supporting
   infrastructure are carried out under contract to the Air Force and
   NASA. The Air Force and NASA share these responsibilities at CCAS and
   KSC under the Joint Base Operations Support Contract (JBOSC), which
   recently consolidated separate contract vehicles maintained by CCAS and
   KSC. Managed by a joint program management office, the JBOSC is
   intended to save money through more streamlined management and to
   increase efficiency and responsiveness of contract support services. At
   VAFB and CCAS, there are DoD-sponsored initiatives under way to
   privatize many of the base utility systems. Under privatization,
   utility customers-including the government-will buy utility services at
   rates established by the utility system operator and determined by a
   metering arrangement. The private utility operator will be responsible
   for the O&M and I&M of the utility system to meet the needs of the
   entire user population of the bases. At NASA WFF, a board of directors,
   made up of the local NASA management and major tenants, such as the
   Navy and the Virginia Space Flight Center, determines how to equitably
   share responsibility for the O&M and I&M of the supporting
   infrastructure that is required to support the entire user community on
   a shared-use basis. The initiatives undertaken by the Air Force and
   NASA are redefining the government's approach to providing the
   supporting infrastructure for users of the space launch bases. Instead
   of requiring that nearly all base support services be purchased through
   the host organization, the Air Force and NASA now encourage commercial
   customers to enter direct contractual arrangements with the base
   support service providers. The government is evolving to a system in
   which only certain types of support services-such as mandatory safety
   analyses-are provided to customers directly through the host
   organization. Report of the Interagency Working Group Page 4 of 34
   Future Management and Use of the U.S. Space Launch Bases and Ranges
   Space Launch Operations Facilities and Systems Space launch operations
   facilities and systems include those facilities and dedicated-use
   systems required for assembly, test, checkout, and launch for
   satellites and launch vehicles. More specifically, this includes
   payload and launch vehicle processing and assembly facilities, launch
   complexes, launch control centers, checkout control centers, associated
   propellant servicing systems, and other vehicle- or payload-specific
   facilities and systems. Responsibility for the space launch operations
   facilities and systems is currently shared between government agencies
   and commercial operators, depending on whether the facility is
   dedicated to government use, shared by government and commercial users,
   or dedicated to commercial use. For those facilities and systems
   dedicated to government programs, the government is wholly responsible
   for funding and maintaining the facilities. Examples would include the
   Space Shuttle and Space Station facilities at KSC and the Titan IV
   launch facilities and the Global Positioning System (GPS) satellite
   processing facility at CCAS, among others. For shared-use facilities
   and systems that support both government and commercial operations, the
   government typically pays O&M costs. Under the Commercial Space Launch
   Act (as codified in 49 U.S.C., Subtitle IX, Chapter 701), commercial
   operators reimburse the government only for those direct costs that
   "can be associated unambiguously with a commercial launch or reentry
   effort; and the government would not incur if there were no commercial
   launch or reentry effort." Where modifications to government facilities
   are required to accommodate commercial activities, commercial operators
   are responsible for funding the improvements. Each of the three major
   U.S. commercial launch service providers have funded modifications to
   government launch facilities to meet their commercial requirements: At
   CCAS Lockheed Martin funded modifications to Space Launch Complex
   (SLC)-36A to accommodate the Atlas IIAS, and Boeing funded
   modifications to SLC-17B to accommodate the Delta III; Orbital Sciences
   funded modifications to Building 1555 at VAFB to accommodate Pegasus
   processing activities. In some cases, commercial operators are the sole
   users of facilities and systems that they built or modified on the
   federal launch bases. Typically, the commercial company operates the
   facility under a lease and pays rent based on the fair market rental
   value of the land and any government- owned facilities. For such
   dedicated commercial facilities, the commercial operator is responsible
   for funding all O&M and I&M associated with these facilities. One
   example is the construction and operation of the Astrotech payload
   processing facility on leased land at VAFB. Under the EELV program,
   responsibility for the space launch operations facilities and systems
   being constructed for the new Delta IV and Atlas V launch vehicles will
   belong to the commercial operators. As part of the EELV philosophy, the
   government will not operate or maintain any EELV-related facilities or
   systems; rather, the government will purchase launch services from the
   two companies. As such, the government will use the EELV leases and
   contractual vehicles to shift the burden for the upkeep of the
   EELV-related launch operations facilities onto the commercial operator.
   The commercial operators (Boeing and Lockheed Martin) will be
   responsible for funding all O&M and I&M "within the fence" (i.e., in
   areas where they are the sole users). Report of the Interagency Working
   Group Page 5 of 34 Future Management and Use of the U.S. Space Launch
   Bases and Ranges Range Facilities and Systems Range facilities and
   systems include sensor and command and control capabilities necessary
   to safely conduct national security, civil, and commercial space launch
   operations, as well as test and evaluation of land- and sea-based
   ballistic missiles and other systems. Range facilities and systems also
   include buildings, instrumentation, support equipment, associated
   utility systems, and command and control networks, such as: - Range
   operations control centers providing command and control, and
   communications. - Radar systems and other metric tracking assets. -
   Optical tracking, video and photographic assets. - Telemetry receivers
   and processing systems. - Command transmitters and other safety system
   assets. - Weather measurement and prediction capabilities. -
   Communications systems and switching nodes to distribute voice and
   video and data. - Airspace, sea, and land area surveillance assets .
   Eastern and Western Ranges The Air Force operates the two primary
   ranges used for space launch operations and ballistic missile and other
   national tests. Two space wings assigned to Air Force Space Command are
   responsible for the ranges. The Eastern Range, operated by the 45th
   Space Wing at CCAS and Patrick AFB, Florida, covers an area off the
   East Coast of the United States extending north to Canada and southeast
   to Africa. The Western Range, operated by the 30th Space Wing at
   Vandenberg Air Force Base, California covers an area off the West Coast
   extending north to Canada, south to Central America, and southwest to
   Kwajalein in the Pacific Ocean. With limited exceptions, such as a
   command transmitter and range support aircraft operated by the U.S.
   Navy at Point Mugu, California, the Air Force operates each of the
   component assets that make up the ranges along with the supporting base
   infrastructure. As operator of the Eastern and Western Ranges, the Air
   Force is responsible for funding all O&M and I&M necessary to support
   national security missions conducted on the ranges, except for those
   assets provided by other government agencies. Government users of the
   ranges (including Air Force users) reimburse Air Force Space Command
   for range use. Commercial space launch missions use many of the same
   range assets as government missions, with direct costs reimbursed to
   the Air Force as determined by current policy and law. For more than 30
   years the Air Force has purchased contract services for the major
   operational and maintenance activities of the ranges, to include most
   of the range operations and maintenance personnel. The Air Force
   currently maintains separate O&M contracts at both the Eastern and
   Western Ranges managed by the 30th and 45th Space Wings, respectively.
   The total Air Force funding to operate, maintain, sustain and modernize
   the ranges in FY 1998 (including appropriate base operating support)
   was $452 million, including $290 million for the Eastern Range and $162
   million for the Western Range. In 1998, the total cost for both Cape
   Canaveral Air Station and Vandenberg Air Force Base was closer to $570
   million which includes approximately $25 million in operational
   reimbursements from commercial users and $91 million from other
   government users and pads. Report of the Interagency Working Group Page
   6 of 34 Future Management and Use of the U.S. Space Launch Bases and
   Ranges WALLOPS ISLAND (NASA) * METRIC RADAR * TELEMETRY * COMMAND High
   Inclination Orbit GPS DSCS TDRS INMARSAT INTELSAT CCAS / KSC / PAFB *
   METRIC RADAR * TELEMETRY * OPTICS * COMMAND/CONTROL LAUNCH AREAS
   SUPPORT SHIP (NAVY) * RANGE SAFETY * DATA PROCESSING * TELEMETRY *
   NETWORK HUB * SATRACK * SATCOM * WEATHER * SATCOM * INMARSAT * HF RADIO
   Equatorial Orbit ANTIGUA * METRIC RADAR * TELEMETRY * COMMAND SLBM
   Corridor ARIA * SATCOM * TELEMETRY JONATHAN DICKINSON * HF RADIO *
   SMILS MISSILE TRACKING ANNEX * SATCOM * METRIC RADAR * HF RADIO *
   TELEMETRY * COMMAND * FTSS * SATCOM P3C( NAWCWPNS) * OPTICS ASCENSION *
   SMILS * METRIC RADAR * HF RADIO * TELEMETRY Source: 45th Space Wing *
   WEATHER * SATCOM Eastern Range Customers' Handbook, 1997 Figure 3.
   Eastern Range and Wallops Range Assets PILLAR POINT AFS * METRIC RADAR
   * TELEMETRY * COMMAND ANDERSON PEAK * OPTICS WEST COAST OFFSHORE
   VANDENBERG AFB / SANTA YNEZ PEAK OPERATING AREA * METRIC RADAR *
   TELEMETRY * OPTICS * COMMAND/CONTROL * RANGE SAFETY * DATA PROCESSING
   BROAD OCEAN BALLISTIC MISSILE * NETWORK HUB AREA * SATCOM * WEATHER *
   SMILS POLAR ORBIT HAWAII * METRIC RADAR (30 SW / PMRF) KWAJALEIN (KMR)
   * TELEMETRY (PMRF / 50 SW) PT. MUGU / SNI * OPTICS (21 SW/18 SPSS) *
   METRIC RADAR (NAWCWPNS) * SIGNATURE RADAR * METRIC RADAR * TELEMETRY *
   TELEMETRY * OPTICS * OPTICS * GPS * COMMAND * IMPACT SCORING * SMILS *
   WEATHER NP3D (NAWCWPNS) ARIA (452 FTS) * TELEMETRY * TELEMETRY * OPTICS
   * OPTICS * Comand Control * SMILS Source: 30th Space Wing Capabilities
   Handbook * SATCOM November 1997 Figure 4. Western Range Assets Report
   of the Interagency Working Group Page 7 of 34 Future Management and Use
   of the U.S. Space Launch Bases and Ranges For the last several years
   the Air Force has been upgrading the Eastern and Western Ranges through
   two closely related efforts: the Range Standardization and Automation
   (RSA) program and the follow-on Spacelift Range System Contract
   (SLRSC). The goals of the RSA program are to improve operability,
   reliability, and supportability of both the Eastern and Western Ranges
   while reducing operations and maintenance costs. RSA will modernize the
   ranges by replacing several thousand obsolete and unsupportable
   components and systems and create a standardized Spacelift Range System
   (SLRS). Another component of RSA is the planned replacement of 14 space
   launch tracking radar assets (eight on the Western Range and six on the
   Eastern Range) in favor of GPS as a metric tracking source, which is
   expected to significantly reduce the Air Force's range O&M costs. The
   second upgrade effort is the SLRSC, which will develop and procure
   automated fixed instrumentation, engineer and execute recapitalization
   projects to replace hardware that is no longer economically
   sustainable, and provide integrated systems engineering and sustainment
   functions to standardize the spacelift ranges. The RSA program makes up
   the majority of the modernization activity and funding at both ranges
   and is managed by the Air Force Space and Missile Systems Center (SMC)
   at Los Angeles AFB. Each range under a variety of individual contracts
   manages specific incremental improvement and modernization activities.
   Wallops Flight Facility Test Range NASA operates the WFF Test Range at
   the WFF, Virginia, on the East Coast of the United States. The Wallops
   Test Range is used for aeronautical and suborbital and orbital space
   launch operations originating from Wallops and provides orbital
   tracking and launch support for missions originating from CCAS and the
   KSC, including those of the Space Shuttle. Wallops also operates a
   deployable range, complete with mobile range control centers, radars,
   telemetry receivers, and command transmitters, that has have been used
   in support of NASA, DoD, and commercial missions. A full set of these
   mobile range assets will be deployed in 2000 to support a NASA mission
   to be launched from the state-sponsored Kodiak Launch Complex in
   Alaska. NASA is responsible for funding all O&M and I&M for the Wallops
   Test Range, which costs around $17.3 million per year. NASA is
   typically reimbursed approximately $3 million per year by other
   government agencies and commercial users of the range. The contracts
   for Wallops O&M and I&M have been recently integrated into NASA's
   Consolidated Space Operations Contract (CSOC), which encompasses
   practically all NASA launch and satellite tracking, command, control,
   and communications facilities and systems worldwide. Safety
   Responsibilities and Operations Safety responsibilities and operations
   include those activities related to ensuring public safety and
   protecting property and other resources during space launch ground and
   flight operations. Specific safety responsibilities and operations
   include, but are not limited to establishing safety requirements,
   standards, and procedures; oversight of ground operations (e.g.,
   hazardous materials operations, compliance with safety requirements and
   national consensus standards for government personnel and equipment,
   and compliance with Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulations);
   flight operations (e.g., analysis; design requirements and standards
   for flight systems; and blast, toxic materials, and debris
   containment); system safety (e.g., design requirements and standards
   for spacecraft and launch vehicle safety); and establishing safety
   training and certification requirements for personnel. Report of the
   Interagency Working Group Page 8 of 34 Future Management and Use of the
   U.S. Space Launch Bases and Ranges Federal safety responsibilities are
   divided among the Air Force, NASA, and the FAA. The Air Force and NASA
   are responsible for the safety of people and property on their
   respective launch bases and for protecting the public from hazards
   associated with ground and flight operations on the bases and ranges.
   These responsibilities are derived from public law, federal
   regulations, and from various Department of Defense, Air Force, and
   NASA directives, instructions and standards. In particular, DoD
   Directive 3200.11 "Major Range and Test Facility Base" places safety
   responsibilities on the Range Commander (i.e., the 30th and 45th Space
   Wing Commanders at VAFB and CCAS). Under the Occupational Safety and
   Health Administration (OSHA) regulations, each employer (contractor or
   commercial operator on a federal range) is responsible for the safety
   of its employees and equipment. The FAA is the regulatory agency with
   responsibility for the safety of U.S. commercial launches and for the
   safe operation of nonfederal launch sites. In fulfilling its
   responsibilities, the FAA issues licenses for launch and reentry of
   commercial orbital and suborbital rockets, and launch site operator
   licenses for the operation of sites from which commercial launch
   activities are conducted, excluding federal launch sites. Under the
   licensing regime, licensees bear responsibility for the safety of their
   own operations within the framework of federal safety regulations. For
   launch operators, this includes responsibility for both flight and
   ground safety, regardless of whether launches occur from a federal
   launch range or a licensed launch site. For launches from the federal
   launch ranges, however, the FAA has not sought to duplicate the safety
   reviews of the federal launch ranges and has, to date, relied on the
   Air Force to perform safety oversight of commercial licensees. Evolving
   Responsibilities Figure 5 depicts how management and funding
   responsibilities for each of the five major elements that make up the
   space launch bases and ranges at CCAS and VAFB are divided among
   federal government agencies, government contractors, the U.S.
   commercial space sector, and state-sponsored spaceports operating on
   the federal installations and how those responsibilities are projected
   to change in the future. Prior to 1990, responsibility for the major
   space launch bases and ranges at CCAS and VAFB belonged to the federal
   government, specifically the Air Force. Throughout that time, companies
   under contract to the Air Force performed much of the O&M for base
   infrastructure, range support, safety analysis, and safety system
   maintenance. In addition, many other support services at CCAS
   (including security and some disaster control services) were performed
   by government contractors. The federal government (i.e., the Air Force)
   still "owns" the bases today. The Air Force leases and licenses real
   property and facilities to commercial companies and state spaceports
   but retains ownership. However, unlike in years past, today commercial
   launch operators and spaceports have environmental responsibilities for
   their own activities at the launch sites. This is depicted in the
   figure as the yellow bar on the "Base Ownership" line. Similarly, the
   yellow and vertical striped bars on the "Space Launch Ops Facilities
   and Systems" line indicate that commercial operators and spaceports are
   responsible for operating and maintaining their own satellite and
   launch vehicle processing facilities and launch complexes. Finally,
   commercial operators are Report of the Interagency Working Group Page 9
   of 34 Future Management and Use of the U.S. Space Launch Bases and
   Ranges responsible for some aspects of the ground safety of their own
   employees and operations at these locations, as indicated by the yellow
   bar on the "Safety Responsibility and Systems" line. = USG
   Responsibility = USG Contract PAST TODAY WITH EELV WITH RSA = Coml
   Responsibility <1990 OPERATIONAL COMPLETE = State Responsibility (2002)
   (2006) BASE OWNERSHIP SUPPORTING INFRASTRUCTURE SPACE LAUNCH OPS
   FACILITIES AND SYSTEMS RANGE FACILITIES AND SYSTEMS SAFETY
   RESPONSIBILITY AND SYSTEMS Figure 5. Current and Planned Division of
   Responsibilities More changes are about to occur. During the next few
   years, DoD plans to transition the ownership and O&M of the utility
   systems on the launch bases to private companies, as indicated by the
   growing yellow bar on the "Supporting Infrastructure" line. When EELV
   is operational in 2002, the government will maintain only a few
   satellite-processing facilities (indicated by the remaining blue bar on
   the "Space Launch Ops Facilities and Systems" line). The EELV operators
   will build and maintain their own facilities and launch pads (indicated
   by the large yellow bar), and spaceports in Florida and California are
   arranging hundreds of millions of dollars in financing for them will
   manage some of the facility construction (indicated by the vertically
   striped bar). The relative size of the yellow bar on the "Safety" line
   increases in the EELV column because, as the heritage launch systems
   retire, the EELV operators will conduct a larger fraction of the launch
   vehicle operations on the launch bases. Like today's commercial
   operators, EELV operators will be responsible for the ground safety of
   their own employees. The Air Force currently plans to continue
   competitively sourcing more of the range operations, maintenance, and
   sustainment work, as indicated by the growing crosshatched bar on the
   "Range Facilities and Systems" line. Summary In summary, the IWG found
   that the U.S. government is already sharing substantial
   responsibilities with the commercial sector and is pursuing a path to
   share significantly more responsibilities with state spaceports, state
   governments, and commercial operators. Simultaneously, the Air Force is
   seeking ways to enhance its use of contract providers for range O&M,
   I&M, and sustainment to improve efficiency and allow the federal
   government to share more of the total costs with commercial industry.
   Report of the Interagency Working Group Page 10 of 34 Future Management
   and Use of the U.S. Space Launch Bases and Ranges CHAPTER 3: CHALLENGES
   Key Elements of National Space Policy and Federal Law Since the
   mid-1980s, national policy and federal law have established the goal of
   fostering the growth of the U.S. commercial space launch industry. *
   The Commercial Space Launch Act (CSLA) (originally signed into law in
   1984 and later amended and codified at 49 U.S.C., Subtitle IX, Chapter
   701) is intended "to facilitate the strengthening and expansion of the
   United States space transportation infrastructure, including the
   enhancement of United States launch sites and launch-site support
   facilities, and development of reentry sites, with Government, State,
   and private sector involvement, to support the full range of United
   States space-related activities." * The President's 1994 National Space
   Transportation Policy declares that the government will "foster the
   international competitiveness of the U.S. commercial space
   transportation industry, actively considering commercial needs and
   factoring them into decisions on improvements in launch facilities and
   launch vehicles." * The President's 1996 National Space Policy
   establishes "a fundamental goal . . . to support and enhance U.S.
   economic competitiveness in space activities while protecting U.S.
   national security and foreign policy interests." It encourages "private
   sector ownership, investment, and operation of space assets" and
   directs U.S. government agencies to "facilitate stable and predictable
   U.S. commercial sector access to appropriate U.S. government
   space-related hardware, facilities, and data on a reimbursable basis.
   However, the U.S. government reserves the right to use such hardware,
   facilities, and data on a priority basis for national security and
   critical civil sector requirements." A more complete and detailed
   discussion of the current policy and legal framework is included as
   Annex B of this report. U.S. Government Support Enabled by the National
   Policy and Legal Framework Under the current national policy and legal
   framework, the U.S. government has provided the U.S. commercial space
   sector and state government users with stable and predicable access to
   U.S. governmentowned space launch operations facilities and systems, as
   well as supporting infrastructure, and range support. In addition, the
   significant Air Force, private sector, and state government investment
   in the EELV program will further strengthen and expand the U.S. space
   transportation infrastructure. Private sector ownership and operation
   of space launch assets will increase, while in some cases federal
   ownership will decrease, as both DoD and NASA shift toward the use of
   more commercial launch services. The U.S. government has also involved
   the U.S. commercial space sector in management processes-most notably
   the launch scheduling process-as another means of facilitating stable
   and predictable access to U.S. government property and services. Report
   of the Interagency Working Group Page 11 of 34 Future Management and
   Use of the U.S. Space Launch Bases and Ranges Recent Developments and
   Trends The stable national policy and legal framework that has been in
   place for more than a decade- establishing that U.S. commercial space
   launch activities should be fostered using the federally funded and
   managed launch bases and ranges on a reimbursable basis-has played a
   critical role in the emergence and development of a viable,
   internationally competitive U.S. commercial space launch industry. The
   U.S. commercial space launch industry has recently started showing
   signs of maturity, earning revenues of more than $1 billion in 1998 and
   investing more than twice that amount in improved launch vehicles and
   related facilities at CCAS and VAFB. In addition, the average U.S.
   commercial launch rate more than doubled between the first and second
   half of this decade, with the U.S. commercial space launch industry
   capturing a larger portion of the global market (47 percent) than any
   other nation in 1998. These positive trends are expected to continue,
   though the pace of continued growth is the subject of some debate. This
   very success-enabled and fostered by the stable national policy and
   legal framework-has altered the balance between government and
   commercial activity at U.S. space launch bases and ranges and raised
   questions about the viability of the government-commercial
   arrangements. Historically, the limiting factor in U.S. launch capacity
   was the time required to prepare the launch vehicle and satellite on
   the launch pads. Over the past five years, however, government and
   industry have worked hard to reduce launch processing time lines as
   launch rates have increased. Further decreases in satellite and launch
   vehicle processing time are expected with the advent of EELV, making
   complementary improvements in range availability crucial for overall
   operational success. Range modernization efforts are under way;
   however, the IWG is concerned that range availability will remain a
   limiting factor on the number of launches that can be conducted
   annually from the U.S. launch bases and ranges. Particular concern
   exists in the near term while the operations tempo remains high and the
   ranges are periodically taken off line to conduct the modernization
   upgrades necessary to complement vehicle and satellite processing
   improvements. Some strains already show. For example, the Eastern and
   Western Ranges were each unavailable to support operations for nearly
   60 days in 1998 because of scheduled down times for modernization
   activities. Limitations in the National Policy and Legal Framework The
   effectiveness of the national policy and legal framework formulated in
   the 1980s has in many ways exceeded expectations, raising concerns
   about whether or not the current framework can continue to meet the
   needs of both U.S. government and commercial users of the bases and
   ranges. Most significantly, symptoms have recently been observed that
   point to the need to reconsider whether the "excess capacity, direct
   cost" legal framework is sufficient now and for the future. Despite
   strong policy and legislative intent for government to foster the
   growth of commercial space launch activities, and recognizing that
   existing policy and law provide a great deal of flexibility, some
   policy and legal provisions intentionally constrain the type and scope
   of support federal agencies can provide. For example, the CSLA states
   that U.S. government agencies should facilitate and encourage private
   sector and state government access to U.S. government Report of the
   Interagency Working Group Page 12 of 34 Future Management and Use of
   the U.S. Space Launch Bases and Ranges "launch property that is excess
   or otherwise is not needed for public use; and launch services,
   including utilities, otherwise not needed for public use." Another
   provision limits the costs for which commercial providers can reimburse
   the government to "direct costs," which are defined as "the actual
   costs that-(a) can be associated unambiguously with a commercial launch
   or reentry effort; and (b) the Government would not incur if there were
   no commercial launch or reentry effort." Further, national space policy
   prohibits the use of direct federal subsidy to support commercial
   industry needs. Although this legal and policy framework is adequate to
   meet the current level of government and commercial launch activity,
   the IWG is concerned that the "excess capacity" constraint in the law
   may inhibit the future growth of the U.S. commercial space launch
   industry and limit the potential synergy between government and private
   sector interests. Both law and policy demand that federal agencies
   encourage commercial industry growth because of the benefits such
   growth brings to national security, scientific and technical advances,
   and economic growth and well- being. However, the "excess capacity"
   provision, when combined with the "direct cost" definition in law could
   limit the federal government's ability to accommodate growing
   commercial requirements. The federal government can foster commercial
   growth with excess property and services, but cannot budget for
   additional resources to create this excess capacity. Meanwhile, the
   "direct cost" provision bars the federal government from effectively
   obtaining the resources from the private sector to create additional
   capacity to meet commercial sector needs. The government can be
   reimbursed only for those activities directly and unambiguously
   associated with the commercial operations. It cannot recoup indirect
   costs because they cannot be tied to a specific commercial user or
   operation. As a result, if commercial space launch activities continue
   to grow, the current policy and legal regime could eventually constrain
   commercial market growth. There is some debate with regard to whether
   and when the effects of these constraints will emerge. However,
   commercial users are concerned because a high overall workload has
   limited the operational flexibility of the U.S. ranges, while
   international competition remains intense. These concerns must be
   addressed to continue to meet the objectives of national policy. The
   commercial sector concerns become especially relevant to national
   security as the national security space sector transitions to EELV
   because the price the U.S. government will pay for launch services, as
   well as the effectiveness of these services, will be strongly
   influenced by the success of the U.S. commercial launch service
   providers. Basically, the IWG looked at four areas of concern from the
   commercial users and government agencies: customer needs, resources and
   accounting, safety regulation, and technology development.
   Accommodating Commercial Customers and Their Needs U.S. Government
   Investments and Unique Commercial Needs. Currently, DoD provides enough
   funding to maintain the infrastructure and personnel to support U.S.
   government launch activities. Because government activity is not
   steady, "excess capacity" exists. Earlier this decade, U.S. commercial
   space launch rates were much lower than U.S. government launch Report
   of the Interagency Working Group Page 13 of 34 Future Management and
   Use of the U.S. Space Launch Bases and Ranges rates, and DoD was able
   to accommodate commercial needs within this excess capacity while
   recouping only direct costs from commercial users. Now, however, the
   commercial workload represents around 40 percent of the launch manifest
   and civil and commercial users of the ranges have expressed a need for
   additional staff and range improvements that will increase operational
   flexibility for all users. At the same time, commercial users have not
   established a business case to justify increased individual investments
   that would benefit all commercial users. The Air Force has embarked on
   a major range modernization effort (the RSA) that will dramatically
   improve flexibility for all users but is pursuing this effort on a pace
   that meets the needs of DoD and intelligence users. Commercial and
   civil users have stated that the pace of RSA does not improve
   operational flexibility in the near term to accommodate their launch
   schedule requirements more efficiently. Commercial and civil users have
   also expressed concern that the availability of the range is limited by
   activities required to continue the implementation of the planned
   modernization program. Since satellite companies choose among competing
   launch providers primarily on the basis of availability, flexibility,
   cost, and risk, U.S. commercial launch providers say they are hampered
   by tension between the need to modernize and the need to conduct
   parallel operations. Although national policy tells federal agencies to
   actively consider commercial needs and factor them into decisions on
   improvements in launch facilities and launch vehicles, the federal
   government cannot expend resources to meet unique commercial needs.
   Where government and commercial needs coincide, or where the government
   can make minor changes to account for commercial needs, the government
   can satisfy those needs. Unique commercial needs are not considered in
   the government's requirements process, are not validated by any
   government agency, are not coordinated among the often numerous (and
   sometimes conflicting) commercial companies and interests, and,
   ultimately, must be accommodated outside the government process. Today,
   the federal government agencies do not have a formal process for
   evaluating commercial needs and determining whether they overlap or
   complement government requirements. Commercial User Participation in
   Strategic Planning and Management Processes. The emergence and
   development of an active U.S. commercial space launch industry,
   including nonfederal launch site operators, has broadened considerably
   the number of customers who rely on launch base and range support. Over
   the past several years, the Air Force has established a formal process
   to involve civil and commercial sector users in the launch scheduling
   process. However, as "excess capacity/direct cost" users of DoD
   facilities and support services, civil and commercial sector users of
   the primary launch bases and ranges typically have no official voice in
   processes or decisions regarding strategic planning or implementation
   of operation, maintenance, improvement, modernization, and sustainment
   of range equipment, facilities, and capabilities. It is fundamentally
   the "excess capacity" framework that limits the ability of the U.S.
   government to partner fully with state governments and industry. Report
   of the Interagency Working Group Page 14 of 34 Future Management and
   Use of the U.S. Space Launch Bases and Ranges Operational Flexibility
   During several discussions with the IWG, commercial users placed
   "operational flexibility" at the top of their list of needs. Although
   the Air Force estimates that it will have sufficient overall range
   capacity to meet the demands of the launch schedule over the next five
   years, commercial and civil users pointed out that additional
   flexibility (e.g., more operations personnel, increased technical
   capability, reduced range recycle times) would help them commit to
   launch schedules with high confidence and would allow the ranges to
   efficiently overcome normal schedule disruptions. This need is
   particularly acute when commercial business is frequently awarded based
   on a company's ability to commit in advance to specific satellite
   on-orbit delivery dates. In the view of commercial users, sufficient
   overall theoretical range capacity does not get to the heart of their
   concern-responding with agility to a fluid commercial market. The
   government's mission needs are met within the planned range
   modernization program. Financial Issues and Opportunities Opportunities
   for Nonfederal Investments. Based on current legal restrictions,
   federal government investment in the ranges can be based only on
   requirements for national security and civil space launch missions. At
   the same time, U.S. government agencies have very limited authority to
   accept private funding (i.e., "gifts") to supplement the appropriation
   accounts for range improvement and modernization. This, and the lack of
   a business case, prevents the commercial space sector from investing
   its own funds to accelerate or supplement the currently planned range
   improvement and modernization programs or to hire additional range
   personnel to meet commercial needs. The "excess capacity/direct cost"
   framework for commercial use of the launch bases and ranges places the
   burden for funding the operation, maintenance, improvement,
   modernization, and sustainment of the range facilities and systems on
   the U.S. government-in practice, the Air Force-and prevents government
   agencies from recouping expenses related to amortization or
   re-capitalization of range infrastructure. Nor does the "direct cost"
   construct in the law allow government agencies to recoup costs
   associated with most civil service or military personnel operating and
   managing the ranges because each is necessary to support government
   requirements. While commercial activities already account for as much
   as 40 percent of launch activities scheduled on the ranges,
   reimbursements to the government account for less than 10 percent of
   the costs associated with the U.S. space launch ranges. Clear Cost
   Accounting. To better understand current or proposed changes to the
   financial arrangements between the government and commercial users of
   the U.S. space launch bases and ranges, the U.S. government must also
   address the transparency of its billing practices. For example, the
   cost accounting system in use by the Air Force to track costs and bill
   commercial space launch and site operators was constructed for and
   meets the mission needs of DoD but is not based on commercial business
   practices. This limits the ability of commercial sector users to
   perform cost-benefit analyses on the individual range support services
   that they request. In addition, the Air Force and NASA implement the
   direct cost provision of current policy and law differently in charging
   commercial space launch operators for launch base and range support.
   Finally, because industry must make business decisions well in advance
   of conducting launch activities, the stability and predictability of
   government pricing for range services is of great Report of the
   Interagency Working Group Page 15 of 34 Future Management and Use of
   the U.S. Space Launch Bases and Ranges concern. For instance, under the
   EELV contracts for firm fixed-price launch services, any future
   increases in launch base and range support costs will have to be
   absorbed by the commercial operators even when these increases were
   unanticipated at the time the contracts were negotiated. As government
   agencies continue to consolidate and restructure launch base and range
   support contracts so more of the total expenses are billable as "direct
   costs," clear and consistent cost accounting capabilities would help
   both government and industry to understand whether and how these cost
   increases to commercial operators could effect their international
   competitiveness. Roles, Resources, and Requirements for Public Safety
   Roles and Resources. Air Force safety personnel at the ranges are
   increasingly burdened by oversight responsibilities for commercial
   launches at the federal ranges. Under current law, the FAA is
   responsible for oversight of FAA-licensed commercial launches from
   federal and nonfederal launch sites. In carrying out this
   responsibility, the FAA has accepted the Air Force safety regime
   through its baseline assessment of safety at the CCAS and VAFB ranges.
   As a result, the Air Force performs the bulk of the work-and bears the
   burden-for safety oversight of commercial launches at the federal
   ranges. The FAA will need to provide sufficient trained safety
   personnel for oversight of licensed commercial activities at the
   federal ranges to relieve the growing burden on Air Force safety
   personnel and to build the required safety workforce to oversee the
   increasing commercial activities at nonfederal launch sites. Common
   Requirements. With the growing number of commercial launch sites, and
   with the FAA's codification of its safety requirements, launch
   operators must meet two sets of safety requirements-Air Force
   requirements for launches from Air Force installations and FAA
   requirements for launches from nonfederal launch sites. Differing
   safety requirements not only cause inefficiencies for the launch
   operators; they cause uncertainty and confusion. Prior to 1995, both
   the Eastern and Western Ranges imposed a separate set of safety
   requirements, prompting launch operators to ask that a common set of
   standards be created. Although some differences remain, the Air Force
   has since instituted a common set of safety requirements applicable at
   both launch bases and ranges and is taking steps to further standardize
   its requirements and procedures. To avoid the potential for two
   incompatible safety standards evolving as more nonfederal launch sites
   become active, the FAA and the Air Force have begun to develop common
   national range safety requirements applicable to both licensed
   commercial and government launches, at federal and nonfederal launch
   sites, to be implemented under their independent authorities.
   Next-Generation Technology Development and Demonstration for Launch
   Ranges While the Air Force is pursuing substantial range upgrades
   through the RSA program, currently no focused, funded effort exists
   within the federal government to develop and demonstrate long- term,
   next-generation technologies for range capabilities. Next-generation
   range technologies will be essential to improve safety and reduce costs
   by orders of magnitude to enable high launch rate operations using
   next-generation highly reusable space transportation systems. Report of
   the Interagency Working Group Page 16 of 34 Future Management and Use
   of the U.S. Space Launch Bases and Ranges CHAPTER 4: ALTERNATIVE
   FUTURES AND MANAGEMENT MODELS At this point in the evolution of the
   U.S. space launch bases and ranges, pursuing a radical change in
   management-such as transferring ownership and responsibilities for
   operations to a private or state-sponsored entity-does not appear to be
   in the interest of either the U.S. government or commercial space
   sector. As has been the case since the beginning of the Space Age, for
   the foreseeable future, the U.S. space launch bases and ranges must
   continue to satisfy critical national security, intelligence-gathering,
   and human space launches and testing of land- and sea-based ballistic
   missiles, which together account for more than half of the total range
   workload. Furthermore, no commercial sector entity has expressed
   interest, willingness, or a business case that would make it possible
   to seriously consider such alternatives in the near to midterm.
   Development of the commercial space launch market, although quite
   dramatic over the past five years, is not sufficient to make it
   possible for state or commercial entities to operate, maintain, and
   sustain the launch bases-or even just the ranges-as a viable,
   sustainable business. Commercial space launch market projections are
   neither robust nor predictable enough to support a sustainable business
   case for private sector operation and maintenance of the launch bases
   or ranges. However, because it is in the interest of the U.S.
   government to encourage the continued growth of commercial space launch
   activities, the IWG believes it is prudent to examine alternatives to
   the current regime. Such alternatives could serve as a model for the
   future or could illuminate steps that should be taken to enhance the
   government-private space launch partnership. A variety of possible
   alternative end states for the management and use of the U.S. space
   launch bases and ranges exist. The desirability and constraints
   associated with each management model will depend strongly on several
   factors with futures that are neither clear nor easy to predict. Some
   of these factors include the extent and pace at which new space
   transportation technologies and systems are developed, whether and how
   fast the commercial space launch market continues to grow, and whether
   and how fast commercial activities migrate to nonfederal launch sites.
   Another influencing factor is the extent to which federal government
   agencies continue to require unique capabilities, for example, to meet
   human spaceflight requirements. In addition to the national security
   imperatives to ensure access to space, market forces and commercial
   developments are important in determining the course of the future
   management and use of the U.S. space launch bases and ranges. For
   example, level or slow but steady growth in demand for expendable
   launches of increasingly heavy commercial communications satellites to
   geosynchronous orbit would result in one management scenario emerging
   as the most attractive. Development and operation of a variety of
   low-cost, next-generation reusable launch vehicles could suggest
   another. While explosive growth in demand for access to low-altitude,
   high- inclination orbits could suggest a third. The working group
   defined a range of alternatives that could serve as future paths if
   commercial markets or national needs require. However, the
   uncertainties associated with potential demand for commercial satellite
   and launch services, coupled with the need for flexibility and agility
   as we move to an uncertain future, leads the working group to recommend
   that the federal government take no actions now that would either
   select or preclude any of these possible Report of the Interagency
   Working Group Page 17 of 34 Future Management and Use of the U.S. Space
   Launch Bases and Ranges alternative futures. The working group believes
   the U.S. government should let market forces and the pace of new
   developments help determine which future scenario makes the most sense
   to pursue for the far term. Public-Private Partnership One possible
   future end state for management and use of the U.S. space launch bases
   and ranges is management by a public-private partnership that involves
   sharing launch base and range management responsibilities between
   federal government agencies and private sector entities. A
   public-private partnership would include the transfer of some
   government functions and responsibilities to the private sector, while
   the government would retain some of its current management roles and
   responsibilities. A partnership could also include the formation of an
   overall management organization consisting of both government and
   private sector participants. The nature of the public-private
   partnership could be modeled after a variety of arrangements already in
   existence in other areas of endeavor. The IWG looked at several that
   might serve as examples. One possibility is the Electric Power Research
   Institute where both government and private entities participate in a
   common board of directors and a for-profit subcontractor conducts
   operations on behalf of the users of the research institute. Another
   example is the National Renewable Energy Laboratory-a federally funded
   research and development center (FFRDC) managed by a nonprofit
   consortium and housed in a government-owned, contractor- operated
   (GOCO) facility. Shared use airports, such as the one at Colorado
   Springs, where both civil and military aviation facilities and
   activities use common supporting infrastructure, could provide yet
   another model for shared management responsibilities in a
   public-private partnership. Finally, a GOCO arrangement, such as those
   previously used at the Delta, Atlas, and Titan launch vehicle
   production facilities, could serve as another management model. In the
   past, this type of GOCO arrangement allowed the companies to make and
   execute operating decisions with minimal direct government involvement.
   Additional examples exist that should be studied more fully if this
   alternative proves desirable in the future. Some potential
   considerations for this approach include the following: * Management by
   a public-private partnership could provide a central means through
   which all the launch base and range users' voices could be heard by
   launch base and range decision- makers, because the commercial sector
   interests would be represented within the management structure
   overseeing the operation, maintenance, sustainment, improvement, and
   modernization of the U.S. space launch bases and ranges. * Given
   statutory changes, a public-private partnership could provide an
   investment vehicle to accommodate both federal government budget needs
   and private sector investment desires. * Management by a public-private
   partnership could represent an incremental step between the current
   division of management responsibilities between the federal government
   and the private sector and establishing a national or regional
   spaceport authority. Some policy questions and potential issues
   regarding this approach include the following: Report of the
   Interagency Working Group Page 18 of 34 Future Management and Use of
   the U.S. Space Launch Bases and Ranges * How could multiple, competing
   commercial space launch operators participate fairly in and benefit
   from a management structure that includes their competitors as well as
   other companies and a variety of government entities with different and
   competing interests? * How could U.S. government agencies be
   appropriately authorized to use a mix of government and private sector
   funding to conduct operations, maintenance, sustainment, improvement,
   and modernization of launch base and range facilities, systems, and
   equipment? * What sort of organizational structure would enable a
   smooth transition from today's all- government management structure to
   a public-private partnership without precluding other possible options
   if conditions continue to change and develop? * How would the U.S.
   government protect national security interests in a public-private
   partnership when the private sector element is not wholly U.S.-owned
   (e.g., international mergers, agreements, consortiums)? Commercial
   Operation Another possible future end state for management and use of
   the U.S. space launch bases and ranges includes leasing the U.S. space
   launch bases and ranges to a commercial entity to fund and operate.
   Commercial operation of the launch bases and ranges would involve full
   commercialization of all launch base and range functions currently
   provided by government entities and government contractors, with a
   single private entity in charge of making management decisions with
   regard to operations, maintenance, sustainment, improvement, and
   modernization. Under this scenario, the private entity would have sole
   responsibility for base ownership, supporting infrastructure, range
   facilities and systems, and safety systems and operations. Many of
   these functions could be subcontracted, but federal government agencies
   would retain responsibilities for those space launch operations,
   facilities and systems, that would be required to conduct its own
   unique missions (e.g., ballistic missile and other national test
   launches and operations, Space Shuttle operations, national security
   space activities). Furthermore, the FAA would retain its regulatory
   responsibilities and authorities. This alternative depends on
   commercial markets continuing to grow and sustain steady demand for
   commercial space launches at rates substantially higher than those
   required to conduct government national security and civil missions.
   That is, commercial demand has to become sufficiently robust and
   predictable to make it feasible to close a business case to sustain
   commercial operation of the U.S. space launch bases and ranges. In that
   case, it may be appropriate for the federal government to seriously
   consider this alternative, consistent with the national security need
   for ensured access to space. Some considerations are the following: *
   Under this scenario, the burden for funding, operating, maintaining,
   sustaining, improving and modernizing the U.S. space launch bases and
   ranges would be borne by both the commercial users and U.S. government
   agencies. Report of the Interagency Working Group Page 19 of 34 Future
   Management and Use of the U.S. Space Launch Bases and Ranges * The
   dominant user-in this case, the U.S. commercial space sector-would have
   the dominant voice in managing the U.S. space launch bases and ranges.
   * Managing the U.S. space launch bases and ranges as a commercial
   business could provide adequate incentives and mechanisms to meet user
   requirements efficiently in response to market forces, demand, and new
   developments. Some policy questions and potential issues regarding this
   approach include the following: * How would U.S. government agencies
   ensure their ability to meet national security and critical civil
   sector mission requirements for access to space if the U.S. space
   launch bases and ranges were under the control of a commercial entity
   whose decisions are driven by commercial market forces, business
   considerations, and returns to shareholders? * How would the Air Force
   sustain a core of career specialists with expertise in space launch
   related matters as a means of ensuring its ability to conduct national
   security missions if all of the launch base and range functions were
   privatized? * What conditions would have to be met before a credible,
   sustainable business case could be made for commercial operation of the
   U.S. space launch bases and ranges? Factors for consideration include
   the uncertainties associated with projected commercial demand,
   environmental cleanup costs that would have to be paid before
   transferring base ownership from the federal government to a private
   entity, and the political realities associated with any proposed base
   realignment and closure actions, including the disposition of tenant
   units currently active at the launch bases? National, State, or
   Regional Spaceport Authorities This alternative suggests transferring
   management responsibilities from the federal government agencies that
   currently own and manage the U.S. space launch bases and ranges to a
   national, state, or regional spaceport authority. Under this scenario,
   all of the launch base and range functions currently provided by
   government entities and government contractors would be turned over to
   a spaceport authority that would be responsible for launch base and
   range funding, operations, maintenance, sustainment, improvement, and
   modernization. The spaceport authority would have sole responsibility
   for base ownership, supporting infrastructure, range facilities and
   systems, and safety systems and operations. Many of these functions
   could be subcontracted, but, as with the commercial alternative,
   federal government agencies would retain responsibility for those space
   launch operations, facilities, and systems that would be required to
   conduct government missions. In this alternative, national security
   agencies (in this case the Air Force) would relinquish control of the
   bases and ranges and become tenants. This alternative is somewhat
   analogous to civil, commercial, and military aircraft using runways,
   facilities, and services at state or regional airports or civil,
   commercial, and military ships using state or regional seaports.
   However, in the case of airports and air traffic, the federal
   government retains responsibility for regulatory oversight (mostly to
   ensure public safety) and some infrastructure (e.g., the air traffic
   control system). In many cases airport authorities manage the overall
   development, sustainment, and use of the airports by civil, commercial,
   and military aircraft. The Airport Trust Fund, which is funded through
   fees on airline passenger tickets and Report of the Interagency Working
   Group Page 20 of 34 Future Management and Use of the U.S. Space Launch
   Bases and Ranges aircraft fuel taxes, is used by airports to support
   improvement, modernization, and safety-related projects. Although there
   are also some similarities between this alternative and the U.S.
   highway system (supported in part by the Highway Trust Fund), in
   general there is no direct analogy to a national spaceport authority
   for other U.S. transportation modes (i.e., land, sea, and air). A
   reliable alternative source of funding outside the defense budget would
   have to be identified. Possibilities include funds from another federal
   government department or agency; establishment of a new trust fund
   analogous to the Airport Improvement Program with licensing fees, fuel
   taxes, and possibly even a few cents-per-month fee on end-user services
   (e.g., direct-to-home television broadcasts, very small aperture
   terminals, satellite telecommunications): state or municipal government
   funding; and spaceport bonds, tax incentives, etc. That is, national,
   state, or regional spaceport authorities would have to come up with
   credible alternatives for raising and sustaining the substantial annual
   funding required to operate, maintain, sustain, improve, and modernize
   the U.S. space launch bases and ranges for all users (i.e., civil,
   national security, and commercial). Some considerations are as follows:
   * Under this scenario, the burden for funding, operating, maintaining,
   sustaining, improving, and modernizing the U.S. space launch bases and
   ranges is shared by another entity-the spaceport authority-in addition
   to the national security, civil, and commercial users. * A national
   spaceport authority could serve as an honest broker in managing the
   U.S. space launch bases and ranges in a manner that balances the best
   interests of the national security, civil, and commercial users. The
   spaceport's interest is in satisfying its customers, sustaining jobs,
   and stimulating economic growth. * Assuming spaceport authorities would
   have the authority to raise adequate funds through bonds, there could
   be some advantages in terms of cost and flexibility in financing and
   conducting improvement and modernization projects. Some policy
   questions and potential issues regarding this approach could include
   the following: * How could the U.S. government preserve its ability to
   meet critical national security and civil sector mission requirements
   if the U.S. space launch bases and ranges were under the control of a
   spaceport authority (especially regional or state authorities) whose
   interests are driven primarily by commercial factors? * What federal
   government roles and responsibilities would change and how? * How could
   the Air Force sustain a core of career specialists with expertise in
   space launch related matters as a means
