http://www.ustr.gov/sectors/industry/steel201/2002-01-03-letter.PDF

   January 3, 2002 The Honorable Stephen Koplan Chairman United States
   International Trade Commission 500 E Street, S.W. Washington, DC 20436
   Dear Chairman Koplan: Thank you for transmitting the U.S. International
   Trade Commission (Commission) report to the President under section
   202(f) of the Trade Act of 1974 (Trade Act), 22 U.S.C. ยง 2252(f),
   concerning its investigation of steel (ITC Report) on December 19,
   2001. Thank you as well for subsequently issuing a public version of
   the ITC Report: Steel, Inv. No. TA-201-73, USITC Pub. 3479 (December
   2001). As you are aware, this is the largest and most complex Section
   201 proceeding ever undertaken, involving 33 subcategories of steel
   products. You and the ITC staff have undertaken much work in a
   relatively brief time. Of course, a proceeding of this magnitude
   requires the most careful consideration. As I know you and your
   colleagues will appreciate, it is crucial that the Administration have
   at its disposal all of the information necessary to make a decision
   under section 203 of the Trade Act that fully takes account of domestic
   economic considerations and U.S. international obligations. Therefore,
   under authority delegated by the President, I respectfully request that
   the Commission provide the following additional information pursuant to
   section 203(a)(5) of the Trade Act: 1. Unforeseen developments For each
   affirmative determination under section 202(b)(1) of the Trade Act
   (affirmative determination) or determination under such section that
   the President, pursuant to section 330(d)(1) of the Tariff Act of 1930,
   19 U.S.C. ยง 1330(d)(1), may consider to be an affirmative determination
   (equally divided determination), could you please identify any
   unforeseen developments that led to the relevant steel products being
   imported into the United States in such increased quantities as to be a
   substantial cause of serious injury, or threat thereof? 2. Economic
   analysis of remedy options a. In the ITC's Section 201 investigation,
   several parties provided econometric models that purported to measure
   the relationship between imports and the condition of the domestic
   industry. The Commission indicated on page 61 of the ITC Report that
   these models had "serious limitations." Could you please The Honorable
   Stephen Koplan Page 2 identify such limitations, including limitations
   with respect to assumptions or data used in such models regarding
   supply, demand, pricing or other economic factors? b. Could you please
   (1) provide any available documentation on the economic models
   traditionally employed by the Commission; and (2) identify the
   modifications made to the models to take into account the market
   linkages among the different types of imported certain carbon
   flat-rolled steel? c. Could you please (1) identify and provide the
   economic models used to evaluate the effects of the remedy
   recommendations or proposed remedies of the Commission or of individual
   Commissioners; and (2) identify the assumptions and data regarding
   supply, demand, pricing and other economic factors used in such models?
   d. The explanation of the Commission's remedy recommendations refers to
   economic analyses that indicate how a particular remedy will affect a
   domestic industry's sales revenues and sales volumes and what other
   effects it will have, including costs to consumers. (E.g., ITC Report
   at 380, 409-410, 418.) For each remedy recommended by the Commission or
   by any Commissioner, could you please provide the results of these
   analyses, including information on how the recommended remedy will
   affect industry sales revenues, sales volumes, and prices, as well as
   the costs to consumers? e. For each remedy recommendation, could you
   please provide any additional information compiled or produced by the
   Commission regarding the effects of a higher or lower tariff,
   tariff-rate quota, or quantitative restriction, as the case may be? f.
   For each remedy proposed by an interested party, could you please
   provide any information compiled or produced by the Commission on how
   it would affect the domestic industry's sales revenues and sales
   volumes, costs to consumers, and other effects it would have, including
   any effects referenced on pages 380, 409- 410, and 418 of the ITC
   Report? g. Could you please provide a copy of any memoranda cited in
   the ITC Report that you are not otherwise providing in response to
   items a through f? 3. Potential exclusions from safeguard actions under
   Section 201 a. Section 312(a) of the NAFTA Implementation Act requires
   the President to make a determination as to whether imports from Canada
   or Mexico account for a substantial share of total imports or
   contribute importantly to the serious injury, or threat thereof, found
   by the ITC. In the event that the President decides that The Honorable
   Stephen Koplan Page 3 conditions require the exclusion of both Canada
   and Mexico from the following determinations or equally divided
   determinations, could you please report on whether increased imports of
   the following products from all sources other than Canada and Mexico
   are a substantial cause of serious injury or threat of serious injury,
   as those terms are interpreted under sections 201-204 of the Trade Act,
   to the domestic industries, as such industries were defined by the
   individual Commissioners: i. Certain carbon flat-rolled steel (carbon
   and alloy slabs, plate, hot-rolled steel, cold-rolled steel, and coated
   steel); ii. Carbon and alloy hot bar; iii. Carbon and alloy cold bar;
   iv. Carbon and alloy fittings; v. Stainless steel bar; vi. Stainless
   steel fittings; and vii. Welded tubular products other than OCTG. b.
   With regard to items iv and vi of paragraph b, could you please
   indicate whether the conclusion would be different if (i) only Mexico
   were excluded and (ii) only Canada were excluded? c. Section 403 of the
   Trade and Tariff Act of 1984, 19 U.S.C. ยง 2112, note, and section 221
   of the United States-Jordan Free Trade Area Implementation Act
   authorize the President to exclude imports from Israel and Jordan,
   respectively, from any safeguard action under Section 201. For each
   affirmative determination, equally divided determination, and response
   to items a and b, could you please indicate whether exclusion of
   imports from Israel and Jordan would change the conclusions of the
   Commission or of individual Commissioners? d. With regard to
   Commissioner Bragg's affirmative determinations on carbon and alloy
   flat products, stainless and tool steel flat and long products, and
   stainless steel wire products, in each instance where she found that
   exclusion of Mexico or Canada from the analysis does not change the
   recommended findings, could you please indicate the basis for that
   conclusion? As you know, given the difficult circumstances facing the
   U.S. steel industry, it is important to receive this information as
   expeditiously as possible to enable the President to reach a decision
   The Honorable Stephen Koplan Page 4 on how to respond to the
   Commission's recommendations. We of course greatly appreciate the
   extraordinary work already undertaken by the Commission and its staff
   and, therefore, thank you in advance for seeking to handle these
   additional requests with dispatch. Thank you for your prompt attention
   to this matter. Sincerely, Robert B. Zoellick
