http://vesuvius.jsc.nasa.gov/pao/students/

                            Johnson Space Center

    Educator and Student Programs Spacelink Astronauts Distance Learning
                             Human Space Flight

              Johnson Space Center logo KidsSHORTCUTS NASA logo

   NASA's Human Space Flight Web - This is a comprehensive Web site that
   features current and historical information about NASA's human space
   flight program.

   Distance Learning Outpost - The Distance Learning Outpost is a product
   of Johnson Space Center's Distance Learning and Education Project. It
   is the goal of this project to make full use of these valuable assets
   to produce exciting and meaningful learning products for students and
   teachers across the nation and around the world.

   Spacelink - Check out this electronic library that's all about space.

   Star Child - Learn all about astronomy - the planets, the stars and our
   own solar system.

   Astronauts - JSC is the home and training center for all American
   astronauts.

   For Kids Only - Learn all about the Earth.

   Spacecraft Galileo at Jupiter - Follow the Galileo spacecraft on its
   exploration of Jupiter.

   Women of NASA - The Women of NASA resource was developed to encourage
   more young women to pursue careers in math, science and technology.

   EarthKAM - Put a camera on the shuttle, point it at Earth, and let
   students use it to investigate Earth from space. The program links
   middle, high school and university students to space shuttle missions.

   Tour the Cosmos - Find out more about the Hubble Space Telescope's
   latest discovery. Check out this multimedia foray into the mysteries of
   the universe.

   Living in Space - This section of NASA's Human Space Flight Web
   includes information on how astronauts eat, sleep, work and play in
   space.

   JSC Educator and Student Programs - Check out the wide variety of
   student and educator programs offered by Johnson Space Center.

   Student Work Programs - College students can gain valuable experience
   in technical and business fields by becoming co-ops at JSC.

   Send Your Name to Mars - Send your name to Mars on the Exploration
   Rover 2003.

   Amazing Space Activities - Learn the truth about black holes or take
   the astronaut challenge. Tons of space activities from which to choose.

   NASA SkyWatch - Find out when and where to see the International Space
   Station, the space shuttle and other spacecraft with this Web-based
   application.

   Starshine - Several small, optically reflective spherical "STARSHINE"
   student satellites, built by the U.S. Naval Research Laboratory, are
   being deployed by NASA from Hitchhiker canisters in space shuttle cargo
   bays, as well as from an Athena uncrewed launch vehicle, into highly
   inclined low-Earth orbits at a rate of once every year or so.

   Student Involvement Program - Design a mission to Mars, put an
   experiment on the space shuttle and much more.

   Space Center Houston - Relive the past achievements of the space
   program and witness today's history in the making.

   Texas Aerospace Scholars - This is an interactive online learning
   program highlighted by a weeklong internship where selected students
   are encouraged to study math, science, engineering, or computer science
   by interacting with engineers at Johnson Space Center.

   JSC History - Links to an online factsheet library and books on the
   history of the American space program, such as "The Flag on the Moon"
   and "Suddenly Tomorrow Came."

                               Shuttle Streak

              Public Kids Educators News Media Business People

                                   SEARCH
                             NASA Home JSC Home


    Curator: Kim Dismukes
    Responsible NASA Official: Catherine Watson
    Updated: 23 October 2001
