http://www.cstl.nist.gov/FY2000TAR/08_physprop.pdf

   3K\VLFDO 3URSHUW\ 'DWD Industry demands reliable and accessible
   reference data on both physical and chemical properties of a wide
   variety of compounds. These data are required in the development of
   models for process design, energy efficiency, and in the evaluation of
   possible environmental impacts. Basic reference data are also critical
   to the transportation and storage of fluids, in custody transfer, and
   for calibration of instruments and processes. Databases are widely
   needed for providing information on the thermophysical properties of
   fluids. The equations of state required in these databases need to be
   thermodynamically consistent and represent the best available
   experimental data. CSTL's Physical and Chemical Properties Division
   organized and hosted the Fourteenth Symposium on Thermophysical
   Properties in early summer, 2000. This conference brings together
   leading international experts from industry, academia, and government
   laboratories. NIST, in The thermophysical properties conjunction with
   an ASME committee, has assumed community is a diverse international
   primary responsibility for organization of this group with different
   focus areas, conference. The conference attracted more than 500
   different techniques, and different participants from more than 40
   countries, with customers. Periodic meetings among slightly over half
   of the attendees from countries the members of this community serve
   other than the U.S. In addition to the more to cross-fertilize the
   field and to traditional topics, a Forum entitled "Fluid Properties
   integrate the results for the benefit of for New Technologies:
   Connecting Virtual Design industrial users of this information
   throughout the world. with Physical Reality" attracted panelists from
   industry, government, and academia and explored new opportunities and
   challenges in the general field of thermophysical properties.
   Thermodynamics Research Center M. Frenkel, Q. Dong, X. Yan, X. Hong,
   D.G. Friend, W.M. Haynes (838), TRCK.R. Hall (Texas A&M University),
   and R.F. Kayser (TS) For over 55 years, the TRC has generated a great
   number of the critical compilation reports that have become a major
   source of recommended data used in research studies as well as in
   industrial applications. More recently, TRC has developed a number of
   electronic databases covering various thermophysical and The TRC, one
   of the oldest and most authoritative data centers in the world, was
   thermochemical properties of organic founded in 1942 at the National
   Bureau of compounds and their mixtures. Several years Standards to
   undertake American Petroleum ago, TRC proposed the new concept of
   Institute Research Project 44 (API-44). In 1955 dynamic data
   compilation. This concept TRC moved to the Carnegie Institute of
   requires development of large electronic Technology in Pittsburgh to
   start another databases capable of storing essentially all of national
   project funded by the Manufacturing the `raw' experimental data known
   with Chemists' Association (MCA Tables). In 1961 detailed descriptions
   of the relevant TRC relocated to Texas A&M University, and metadata
   and, most importantly, the then returned "home" to NIST in September
   uncertainties. The combination of such 2000. databases with artificial
   intellectual software designed primarily to generate sets of
   recommended data based on available `raw' experimental 69 data and
   their uncertainties leads to the possibility of producing data
   compilations automatically `to order'. TRC is in a unique position to
   implement this concept due to the development of TRC SOURCE Database,
   the largest relational archival system of original thermophysical
   property data in the world. The SOURCE database is maintained by the
   ORACLE database management system and covers more that 100
   thermophysical and thermochemical property data for more than 16,000
   pure compounds, 8,500 binary mixtures, 500 ternary mixtures, and 2,500
   chemical reactions. The first prototype of a dynamic compilation system
   has been developed jointly by TRC and the National Engineering
   Laboratory (NEL) in Glasgow, United Kingdom (DataExpert System)
   focusing on a few important properties of pure organic compounds. TRC
   will enhance the NIST program of the critical evaluation, mining,
   database design, and management of thermophysical and thermochemical
   property data, as well as develop new means of dissemination of these
   data to the end-users in industry, academia, and other government
   agencies. Standard Property Surfaces for Key Industrial Fluids E.W.
   Lemmon, M.O. McLinden, D.G. Friend, A.H. Harvey, M.L. Huber (838), A.P.
   Peskin (ITL), R.T Jacobsen (Idaho National Engineering and
   Environmental Laboratory), S.G. Penoncello (University of Idaho), R.
   Span (Ruhr University, Germany), and K. Knobloch (University of Zittau,
   Germany) Engineers from broad sectors of industry concerned with
   petrochemicals, aerospace, transportation, air conditioning,
   cryogenics, etc. are interested in these property standards. There has
   been significant work over the past decade to update, validate, and
   extend the capabilities of equations of state for pure fluids.
   Nonlinear fitting techniques have been developed to produce the next
   generation of equations of state with substantially shortened
   equations, improved accuracies, and proper extrapolation behavior. This
   work has resulted in equations with uncertainties that are an order of
   magnitude smaller than previously achieved. In particular, the
   uncertainties in our descriptions of the best-measured fluids reach
   near 0.01% in density. Other work has focused on the functional form of
   the equation of state and developing common functional forms where
   limited data sets exist. Several databases are now available from the
   NIST Standard Reference Data Program (i.e., NIST Pure Fluids and NIST
   REFPROP) that incorporate these new equations. For most fluids in the
   databases, the recommended thermodynamic surface is represented by a
   multiparameter equation of state based on the Helmholtz energy. The
   algorithms to calculate viscosity and thermal conductivity are also
   included, as are other properties, such as the dielectric constant,
   surface tension, and melting line. Source code is distributed so that
   the standard can be used directly in user applications. Currently,
   standards for 51 fluids are available, including most of the widely
   used refrigerants, the normal alkanes through heptane, and cryogens and
   inorganics such as argon and fluorine. Future plans involve the
   addition of mixture properties of cryogenic and natural gas mixtures in
   the databases and the development of fitting tools to develop equations
   of state and mixture models simultaneously. International Standards for
   Refrigerant Properties M.O. McLinden, A. Laesecke, E.W. Lemmon, and
   R.A. Perkins (838) Details provided in the International Measurement
   Standards section. 70 Thermophysical Properties of Water and Aqueous
   Mixtures A.H. Harvey, D.G. Friend, L.A. Watts, J.M.H. Levelt Sengers,
   J.S. Gallagher (838), and K. Knobloch (University of Zittau, Germany)
   Water, either as a liquid or in the form of steam, is important in many
   industrial processes, and in order to optimize these processes, it is
   important to have accurate data for its thermophysical properties. In
   addition, it is desirable for companies to have a standardized set of
   properties so their designs can compete equitably for contracting, etc.
   NIST's property These data are particularly critical in the steam
   standardization efforts are coordinated with power industry, where
   small differences in steam the International Association for the
   properties may translate into millions of dollars Properties of Water
   and Steam (IAPWS) worth of plant performance. Other areas in which and
   with the U.S. National Committee to there is a need for improved
   knowledge of IAPWS, an ASME Research and thermophysical properties of
   aqueous systems Technology subcommittee. New include the properties of
   moist gases (important for combustion systems, the HVAC industry, and
   international standards have recently been in industries such as
   semiconductor adopted by IAPWS for the properties of manufacturing
   requiring measurement and pure water. The IAPWS formulation "for
   control of humidity) and properties of electrolytes general and
   scientific use" has been in aqueous and mixed solvents (important for
   incorporated into user-friendly software and waste water and other
   environmental is distributed by NIST's Standard applications).
   Reference Data Program. NIST has coordinated incorporation of the IAPWS
   "industrial" formulation, specifically tailored to the needs of the
   steam power industry, into a completely revised edition of the
   widely-used ASME International Steam Tables for industrial use. Current
   work includes the development of a new standard for water's transport
   properties and modeling the properties of gaseous mixtures containing
   water, using quantum-mechanical potentials to calculate second virial
   coefficients at conditions where measurements are not feasible.
   Thermodynamic Data for Aqueous Terrestrial Processes at Subfreezing
   Temperatures D.G. Archer and R.W. Carter (838) Many natural phenomena,
   such as frost-heaving, lightning, and upper-atmosphere aerosol
   chemistry, involve 5.6 0.05 mol .kg -1 supercooled water, supercooled
   solutions, and cold-stable 5.2 0.25 mol .kg -1 NaCl(aq) solutions.
   Prediction of the effect of these natural 4.8 water phenomena on
   construction and environmental fates 0.5 mol .kg -1 requires knowledge
   of the physics and thermodynamics of 4.4 supercooled water and aqueous
   solutions. The behavior of 1 mol .kg -1 J 4.0 supercooled water is
   considered anomalous because 3.6 2 mol .kg -1 thermodynamic response
   functions, such as heat capacity 3 mol .kg -1 and compressibility,
   change dramatically with decreasing 3.2 4.5 mol .kg -1 6 mol .kg -1
   temperature, and the source of this anomalous behavior 2.8 remains an
   open question. In order to obtain standard- 200 220 240 260 280 state
   heat capacities, measurements for dilute solutions Temperature K must
   be performed accurately, though because dilute Heat capacity of water
   and solutions are inherently unstable at cold temperatures, aqueous
   NaCl specifically supercooled, one must be able to measure the system
   rapidly. Differential scanning calorimetry (DSC) is a fast measurement
   method, but historically not one of sufficient accuracy for the task.
   We have improved DSC calibration methods so that we can now determine
   the heat capacity of the neat solution with an accuracy of ±0.3% during
   cooling. The heat capacities of H2O(aq), NaCl(aq), and NaNO3(aq) were
   measured and are the first accurate heat capacity determinations for
   dilute electrolyte solutions at low temperatures. We have used these
   measurements to examine existing theories of the physics of 71 water by
   observing the effects that occur upon addition of increasing amounts of
   electrolyte to water. We have also examined the extent that ion
   association might increase in supercooled solutions. The present work
   shows that thermodynamic models of electrolyte solutions with a
   singularity in the properties near 227 K, for example, the Helgeson
   model, are not correct for cold electrolyte solutions. Database on
   Material Properties at Cryogenic Temperatures R. Radebaugh, P. Bradley,
   E. Marquardt, M. Lewis (838), M. Hill, J. Le (University of Colorado),
   J. Gary, and A. O'Gallagher (ITL) Material properties data at cryogenic
   temperatures are needed by industry for the design of cryogenic
   equipment. A new analytical model was developed to explain the behavior
   of regenerators with heat input or removal along their length. This
   model shows that by making use of the regenerator for precooling in a
   liquefaction Cryocoolers are required for many technology areas,
   including the process, system efficiency can be improved by as much
   cooling of infrared sensors for as 23%. Our numerical computer model
   for regenerative surveillance and atmospheric thermodynamic systems has
   been updated and is now studies, the cooling of called REGEN3.2. It
   includes about 10 new regenerator superconducting electronics,
   materials and combinations, the ability to vary boundary magnets, and
   power systems, the conditions, and the ability to model heat input or
   removal cooling of cryopumps for clean along the length. The later
   feature agrees to within vacuums in semiconductor about 15% of our
   analytical model. An important feature fabrication processes, the of
   these models is a cryogenic materials database (4 K liquefaction of
   natural gas, and to 300 K) that has been established on our web site
   that many other existing and potential gives equations that fit data
   for about 30 materials and 4 applications. different properties.
   Measurements and Models for Natural Gas Systems J.W. Magee, E.W.
   Lemmon, D.G. Friend, A.H. Harvey, C.D. Holcomb, A. Laesecke, M.O.
   McLinden, S.L. Outcalt, J.C. Rainwater, J.L. Scott, W.M. Haynes (838),
   I.M. Abdulagatov (Dagestan Scientific Center of Russian Academy of
   Sciences), and S.B. Kiselev (Institute of Oil and Gas Research, Russia)
   The natural gas systems selected for experimental study are determined
   by comparisons of the best known models with existing data for the
   systems that are of interest to industry. These comparisons identify
   systems where additional data are required to fill significant gaps or
   where unresolved discrepancies exist between The thermophysical
   properties of natural gas several data sets. Existing NIST models for
   systems must be accurately known for national and international custody
   transfer. It natural gas mixtures, such as NIST Standard is not
   possible to measure all compositions Reference Database 14, are based
   on one-fluid of natural gas, so accurate predictive models
   corresponding states and were developed for are required by industry.
   These models must carbon dioxide-rich systems. Improved be validated
   with reliable data obtained on a Helmholtz energy formulations, which
   also limited number of samples that have well allow calculation of all
   thermodynamic defined compositions. The nature of custody properties in
   the fluid phases of a mixture transfer in gas pipelines and liquified
   natural system in a consistent manner, offer potential gas shipping
   requires that these models be for reduced uncertainty for a wider range
   of recognized as national and international mixture systems.
   Experimental data obtained standards. at NIST on gravimetrically
   prepared mixtures will extend and enhance the data available in the
   literature to develop accurate mixture models and to validate the
   performance of new mixture models. The new measurements are helping to
   resolve existing discrepancies and provide valuable input to an
   improved model. High-pressure vapor-liquid equilibrium measurements
   have been initiated on complex natural gas mixtures consisting of
   appreciable quantities of heavier hydrocarbon (C7+) liquids. Since such
   mixtures present high-pressure retrograde condensation, the fluid 72
   phase behavior of wet gas mixtures of this type is Measurements were
   reported for the currently poorly understood and difficult to model.
   density of three mixtures of carbon The modeling of natural gas
   mixtures continues with dioxide and ethane from 220 to 400 K emphasis
   placed on the equations of state for for pressures up to 35 MPa.
   Because several of the minor constituents, including hydrogen this
   binary mixture possesses an sulfide, carbon monoxide, nonane, and
   decane. This azeotrope and critical points near work has led to new
   short equations of state for ambient temperature, it has been the these
   fluids based on available experimental data. subject of numerous
   previous studies Although the new equations are more accurate than that
   are, unfortunately, in serious disagreement by as much as twenty
   previous equations, the real emphasis was placed times their claimed
   measurement on the functional form. In order for a generalized
   uncertainties. model to work, all of the components must have equations
   that exhibit proper behavior, especially near the critical point, the
   key link in the generalization. In addition to the work on the pure
   fluids, a preliminary model has been developed for mixtures containing
   hydrogen or helium based on the same model used for mixtures of normal
   hydrocarbons and cryogens. This model mimics all of the unusual
   behavior seen in mixtures with hydrogen or helium, but maintains the
   general form outlined in other natural gas work. Since most natural
   gases contain a significant amount of hydrogen, this model will play a
   key role in the calculation of properties used in the natural gas
   industry. Database Development for Supercritical Fluids and Alternative
   Solvents T.J. Bruno and A.F. Lagalante (838) The most important
   thermophysical parameter required to assess the feasibility of an
   extraction process is the solute-solvent phase equilibrium. Serious
   limitations exist in equation-of-state (EOS) modeling approaches that
   use only physical Safe replacements for toxic properties of the solute
   and solvent to model phase solvents are likely to come from equilibrium
   in alternative solvent systems because of fully or partially
   fluorinated alkanes, solution nonidealities arising from specific
   solute-solvent ethers, or ketones that possess interactions. In our
   approach, a given solution process negligible ozone depletion
   potential, is empirically modeled as the dependent variable in a as
   well as functionalized glycol multivariate statistical analysis. The
   independent ethers and siloxanes. Many of the variables to the
   multivariate statistical model include fluorinated alternative solvents
   are empirical solute-solvent interactions and additional gases under
   ambient conditions, state-dependent terms. Solute-solvent interactions
   are and their thermophysical properties quantified using empirical
   solvatochromic and offer the promise of both conventional liquid
   extraction and chromatographic parameters of acidity, basicity, the
   tunable solvent strength offered polarizability, and polarity. These
   parameters represent by near-critical and supercritical the dominant
   chemical interactions in solvent-solute fluid extraction. systems and
   will account for contributions to the nonideal portion of phase
   equilibrium. Accounting for these interactions will permit higher
   accuracy than EOS approaches. The statistical model aids in the
   identification of alternative solvents by making it possible to predict
   the solubility of industrially relevant compounds. 73 Properties
   Database  Theory for Model Systems of Varying Architecture D.G. Friend
   (838), L. Lue, M.A. Killeen (Guest Researchers), and J.R. Elliott, Jr.
   (University of Akron) An initial version of a web-based database of
   thermophysical properties of molecules composed of atoms interacting
   through square-well or Lennard-Jones potentials has been created. The
   current database holds nearly 4000 points for linear arrangements of
   Computer simulations, including molecular dynamics atoms; this will
   eventually be and Monte Carlo methods, are important tools for extended
   to include star and dendritic estimating fluid properties. However,
   such simulations are inevitably run on model systems, e.g., systems
   polymers, and further evaluation of with spherically symmetric
   interaction potentials, the data is planned. The predictions systems
   with a limited number of particles, or systems of various equations of
   state for with discontinuous potential functions. For this molecular
   fluids (e.g., SAFT, TPT, reason, it is difficult to truly validate
   particular Generalized Flory, etc.) were simulations with experimental
   data on real fluids. compared with simulation data for Theoretical
   models, such as extensions of linear, star, and dendritic polymers.
   corresponding states arguments, are also based on Although these
   equations were found model systems and incorporate specific
   assumptions. to work well at high densities, where Thus details of
   these theoretical models cannot be the architecture of the molecule did
   directly tested using experimental thermophysical not influence the
   thermodynamic property measurements on real systems. However, by
   specifically connecting theoretical approaches based properties of the
   system, at low on model systems with simulation results on the same
   densities all of the theories failed to systems, it is possible to
   improve and extend both yield accurate predictions. Through methods for
   obtaining fluid properties. simulation and theory, we were able to
   develop accurate expressions for the properties (e.g., radius of
   gyration, second virial coefficient, etc.) of dilute polymer systems.
   We developed an equation of state for linear and star polymers that can
   provide accurate predictions from dilute to concentrated polymer
   systems. From a comparison of the properties of square-well fluids of
   varying well widths, we showed problems with a form of the law of
   corresponding states beyond those associated with nonsphericity and
   polarity. We have begun developing a new crossover equation of state
   for square-well fluids. Properties of Lubricants and
   Lubricant/Refrigerant Blends M. Huber, T. Bruno (838), K. Henning, M.
   Spadi (Institute Louis Pasteur), A. Abdulagotov (Dagestan Scientific
   Center of Russian Academy of Sciences), and M.A. Killeen (Guest
   Researcher) Optimal designs for refrigeration systems are currently
   hampered by the lack of high quality experimental data and models for
   the thermophysical properties of lubricants and lubricant/refrigerant
   mixtures. The NIST approach to providing industry with the needed data
   had both experimental and modeling components. Lubricants for use with
   alternative refrigerants are often complex mixtures of synthetic
   esters. We began our work on lubricants by considering two pure fluids,
   pentaerythritol tetrapentanoate (PEC5) and pentaerythritol
   tetranonanoate (PEC9), which are representative of components of
   commercial polyolester (POE) lubricants. The modeling effort is based
   on an equation of state method for the ester lubricants and the
   refrigerants, and a Helmholtz mixing model for mixtures. Also, as part
   of the modeling effort, we have compiled a database of experimental
   data for refrigerant/lubricant mixtures. The experimental approach
   currently focuses on three major areas: measurement of the vapor
   pressures of pentaerythritol-based esters, determination of
   solvatochromic parameters of these fluids, and measurement of the
   enthalpy of solution for n-alkanes and alternative refrigerants in
   pentaerythritol-based esters. 74 A major conclusion of the 32
   experimental measurements is 30 28 R 12 3 that the halocarbon fluids
   that 26 l) R 1 23a react most strongly with the R 12 5 24 /mo
   lubricants are those of the lowest (kJ 22 R 143 R2 45fa R 2 36fa
   polarity as illustrated in the figure. DH 20 To model the
   thermophysical 18 R 3 2 R 2 2 16 R 134 a R 152a properties of the
   esters, we 14 R1 43a developed a generalized set of 12 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6
   1.7 1.8 1.9 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.3 2.4 equations for the parameters of Dipole
   Moment of Refrigerant (D) the simplified statistical associating fluid
   theory (SAFT) Enthalpy of solution for fluorinated refrigerants in PEC9
   as model. The equations only require a function of dipole moment of the
   refrigerant the input of the molar mass of the fluid, and are valid for
   pentaerythritol-based esters up to a molar mass of 800. The simplified
   SAFT equation of state with these parameters can reproduce the liquid
   densities to within 1 %. Future work will involve using the simplified
   SAFT model for the lubricants, along with high-accuracy,
   state-of-the-art equations of state for the refrigerants in a Helmholtz
   mixing model that is valid over the entire composition range from pure
   lubricant to pure refrigerant. Advances in Fluid Viscometry A.
   Laesecke, R.A. Perkins (838), R.F. Hafer (University of Colorado), and
   L. Aumann (University of Hannover, Germany) Small viscosity sensors
   with short response Viscosity measurements often provide the most times
   are required in a variety of applications. valuable information to
   monitor the system Torsionally vibrating piezoelectric crystals
   performance in applications as diverse as pipe and vibrating wires are
   very suitable sensors flow, down-hole reservoir characterization, but
   their vibrational behavior has not been blood flow in the human body,
   lubrication of completely characterized in all domains and engine
   parts, or control of polymerization with widely varying excitation
   amplitudes. reactions. The vibration of a stainless-steel wire with a
   diameter of 152 µm was measured at different excitation amplitudes. The
   wire exhibited a nonlinear frequency response and hysteresis, which can
   be generalized in terms of the Duffing-Van der Pol differential
   equation. The phenomenon occurs in all vibrating systems with elastic
   restoring forces, but was not observed in vibrating-wire viscometers
   before, because the preferentially applied tungsten wires has a higher
   stiffness that masks the effect. If a different wire material is
   required for compatibility with a target fluid, the operating mode of
   the wire, including its diameter, has to be selected carefully. This
   may Frequency response hysteresis of the require measurement of the
   viscous damping on the vibrating stainless-steel wire at 12 mV wire in
   the frequency as well as in the time domain. drive voltage in vacuo at
   295 K The time-domain measurement mode was implemented quantitatively
   for the first time with a torsionally vibrating crystal over a wide
   range of fluid states. Due to the high Q of the crystal, fast data
   acquisition capabilities are critical to record the free decay of the
   crystal vibration. Frequency-domain and time-domain measurements were
   carried out concurrently in the same instrument in vacuo between 75 K
   and 325 K and with SF6 from dilute gas to highly compressed liquid (225
   K to 325 K with pressures up to 35 MPa). 75 The insights gained with
   the vibrating-wire sensor explained also the observed nonlinear effects
   in the The viscosity results for SF6 showed frequency response of the
   torsional crystal vibrator. that both measurement modes are The
   nonlinear effects were observed with higher consistent up to 0.020
   Pa·s·kg·m-3 resolution in the newly implemented time-domain (product of
   viscosity and density). measurement mode, which yielded additional The
   experimental results for SF6 contribute to developing this fluid as a
   information about the limiting drive voltage for their Standard
   Reference Material for occurrence. Time-domain measurements with
   viscosity measurements. torsional crystal vibrators provide a second
   metrological approach to the utilization of this type of viscometer.
   The operation of the instrument can be validated in both measurement
   modes against the working theory. This capability is important for
   absolute viscosity measurements and for the development of viscosity
   standards. The new time-domain measurement mode allows the use of
   torsional crystal viscosity sensors in applications that were not
   accessible with frequency response measurements. Dual-Sinker
   Densimeters for High-Accuracy Fluid Density Measurements M.O. McLinden
   (838) Fluid density is a fundamental property in the wide variety of
   fluid metering applications in research and industry. The density as a
   function of temperature and Fluid density: pressure is one of the two
   most important properties for the determination ( F / g) - m = of a
   thermodynamic equation of state of a fluid. The other is vapor V
   pressure. The Physical and Chemical Properties Division has long
   measured fluid density of many industrially important fluids and
   mixtures over wide ranges of temperature and pressure. Recent advances
   in the field permit a five-fold improvement in uncertainties compared
   to our present capabilities. We apply a technique in which two sinkers
   of (nearly) the same mass, surface area, and surface material, but very
   different volumes, are immersed in a fluid of unknown density and
   weighed separately with an analytical balance. The main advantage of
   the double-sinker method is that adsorption onto the surface of the
   sinkers, surface tension effects on the suspension wire (when measuring
   liquids at saturation), and other effects, that reduce the accuracy of
   most buoyancy techniques cancel. The method yields the fluid density
   directly, without the need for calibration fluids. This first
   generation dual sinker densimeter has been tested over the temperature
   range of 86 K to 490 K, with Next generation densimeters designed
   pressures to 36 MPa. It has been used to measure by the expert team of
   NIST/Rubotherm, the pressure-density-temperature (P- -T) surface of
   achieve uncertainties of 0.01% in R365mfc, a hydrofluorocarbon being
   investigated for density over a range of 80 K to 500 K refrigeration
   and foam-blowing applications. The with pressures to 40 MPa. This will
   tests also included a determination of the vapor represent the highest
   accuracy of any pressure and the critical point. The precisions
   wide-ranging P- -T instrument achieved are 0.02% in density and
   pressure and 0.004 K in temperature. A second densimeter, optimized for
   lower (but overlapping) densities, is under development in
   collaboration with Rubotherm GmbH of Bochum, Germany. Rubotherm is
   providing the measuring cell and magnetic suspension coupling, and
   researchers in CSTL have designed and are presently fabricating the
   thermostat and fluid handling and data acquisition systems. 76
   Measurements, Modeling and Data for Pressure-Driven Membrane
   Separations J. Pellegrino, K. Benko, M. Lewis (838), G. Amy, Y. Yoon,
   S. Wright (University of Colorado), M.C. Wilbert, and K. Price (U.S.
   Bureau of Reclamation) Systematic approaches for matching appropriate
   membranes to complex mixtures, and the prediction of the filtration
   figures-of-merit, species partitioning into the membrane, solvent
   permeability, as well as permeability decline over time, are required
   to lower the cost of providing clean water for urgent social and
   economic needs. This program has both measurement and modeling
   components. Meaningful and accurate measurements on both the membrane
   and the complex mixtures are required in order to develop a systematic
   correlative approach. These measurements provide a means to compile the
   effects of chemical, physical, and structural characteristics of the
   Improved processes for obtaining specialty chemicals, membrane and the
   mixture, and ultimately, to delineate pharmaceuticals, and advanced
   rational design criteria for separations. We have also begun monomers
   using assembly of a "standards quality" streaming potential
   environmentally benign apparatus to overcome deficiencies in the
   commercial processes, and more economic instruments. Through our
   collaborations with the U.S. ways to recover, reuse, and Bureau of
   Reclamation and the University of Colorado, we supply water are
   examples of are developing new test protocols, refining existing
   important industrial and characterization techniques, and developing a
   database of municipal uses of membranes. consistent measurements of
   filtration figures-of-merit and membrane and mixture characteristics.
   This database will facilitate the development of correlative models for
   matching membranes to specific applications. Standard pore size
   measurement techniques for ultra-filtration membranes are also under
   development with the support of an industry consortium. Liquid, Vapor,
   and Gas Transport Properties in Membranes and Films J. Pellegrino, X.
   Yi, R. Larsen, K. Nerbonne, and T. Rasco (838) Measurements of liquid,
   vapor, and gas diffusion and sorption in thin layer films are critical
   for development of techniques to predict membrane transport properties.
   These measurements provide a means to compile the effects of both
   chemical and structural subgroups in the material, and ultimately, to
   delineate rational design criteria for mass separating agents such as
   membranes and polymeric adsorbents. The polymers currently under study
   (polypropylene, Although polymeric and inorganic cellulose acetate,
   polysulfones, polyperfluorosulfonic materials are used in membrane and
   acid, polytrimethylsilyl-propyne, and polyaniline) adsorptive
   separation processes, a represent both commercial and cutting-edge
   significant barrier to the optimum use of materials. The data component
   of this research existing materials and development of new materials is
   the lack of a priori program consists of the development of an
   internet- predictive capabilities for the transport accessible database
   of polymeric material properties properties of mixtures in any selected
   that are important for membrane separation design. material. An
   FTIR-attenuated total reflectance (ATR) apparatus to measure diffusion
   of multicomponent mixtures in pre-made, commercial films has been
   developed. An initial study on water and acetone mixtures diffusing
   from the liquid state into a commercial polypropylene (PP) film, at
   several temperatures and compositions has been completed. The data
   suggest mixture effects on the transport mechanisms that we are still
   analyzing but that strongly indicate that cooperative diffusion and
   sorption occur. This study will be extended to clarify the relative
   kinetics of surface sorption versus bulk diffusion by making
   measurements with thinner films. A direct application of this study is
   on the influence of relative humidity on barrier materials (such as
   protective garments). As a result of this work, a "breakthrough
   phenomenon" for isopropanol diffusion through cellulose acetate was
   discovered. In addition, data reduction modeling and experimental
   techniques for a second technique were completed. This technique uses a
   thin (<1 µm) adhesive layer (such as mineral oil) to maintain good
   optical contact between a pre-made film and the ATR 77 crystal. This
   technique facilitates measurements with gas mixtures and also provides
   an approach for measuring diffusion and solubility of viscous fluids
   (lubricants) into films. Thermophysical Properties of Gases used in
   Semiconductor Processing J.J. Hurly, K.A. Gillis, and M.R. Moldover
   (836) Details provided in the Microelectronics section. 78
