http://www.usaid-ph.gov/partners_usaid.htm

                                 USAID Logo


   Security and Monitoring Statement Security and Monitoring Statement
   Search Links

                               Description Bar

                                Home
                                About USAID
                                Programs
                                Partners
                                Achievements
                                Key Documents
                                Sitemap


   Partners

   Partnership with Other Donors

   USAID's ability to achieve results depends largely on the quality of
   the partnerships it forges and facilitates. From the day-to-day
   delivery of grassroot services to intergovernmental collaboration on
   international mandates, the Agency has as partners a diverse array of
   institutions. It forms partnerships with other donors to ensure that
   policies are harmonious, goals consistent, and programs complementary.
   Effective partnerships not only ensure greater consistency of purpose
   and action, but also multiply USAID's own capabilities and resources.
   While effective partnerships are essential, the are not always easy,
   given divergent national and organizational interests. It takes time
   and effort to negotiate shared commitments to common goals and
   strategies among sovereign nations. It takes continuing attention to
   keep them on track.

   As USAID/Philippines' resource levels decline in the past decade from
   over $350 million a year in 1990 to about $30-$35 million, the need for
   donor collaboration has never been greater. Frequently, USAID provides
   the technical assistance and grant support in order to achieve policy
   reforms, while larger donors and the private sector provide the core
   financing of commodities and infrastructure.

   Last updated: February 2000

   Information


            ODA Commitments by Form

       ODA Commitments by Source
           ODA Commitments by Sector
               Donor Activities
               Pledges for 1999
   Examples for Collaboration and Leveraging
                     Links

                               Home >> Partners


                           Map of the Philippines

                    Copyright © 2000 USAID/Philippines.
