http://cox.house.gov/press/coverage/2001/dpnarwhal1103.htm

                               [frameban.jpg]



                                                       Return to Home Page

                                                            About Rep. Cox
                                               Legislative Accomplishments
                                                            News and Views
                                                       Contacting Rep. Cox
                                                           At Your Service
                                                The House Policy Committee
                                                         The 47th District
                                              Rep. Cox's Television Report

   [en00500_.gif]-Submit
   Photo Gallery

                               [redcross.gif]
   The latest information on the War on Terrorism.

                     It's official: Narwhal is in action

  Rep. Chris Cox is on hand for ship's commissioning ceremony Friday and to
                 emphasize its heightened importance today.

                                 Daily Pilot

                              November 3, 2001

   By Deirdre Newman
   NEWPORT HARBOR -- As the first patrol boat in the Long Beach-Los
   Angeles Harbor after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, the cutter Narwhal
   has been an invaluable weapon in the Coast Guard's patrol efforts.
   And it has seen steady action ever since.
   On Friday, the Coast Guard finally made the ship official during a
   commissioning ceremony here. Local officials and Coast Guard members
   gathered to welcome the newest addition to the coastline patrol force.
   The Narwhal was decked out in full dress ship for the occasion with
   flags from various countries strung from fore to aft.
   Rep. Chris Cox emphasized that during wartime, with security heightened
   around the nation, the Narwhal's responsibility of homeland security is
   intensified.
   "The Coast Guard has been fighting for the United States since 1789,
   but never in our history is it more important than it is today," Cox
   said. "Because of the nature of this war, the Coast Guard is on the
   front lines as never before."
   The Narwhal's arrival in Newport Harbor on Sept. 5 culminated a 41-day,
   5,200-mile journey from New Orleans to Corona del Mar via the Panama
   Canal. The Daily Pilot chronicled the trip so local residents could
   keep up on the various ports of call.
   The 87-foot Narwhal represents a new class of boats featuring an
   innovate launch and recovery system and high-tech navigational
   operations, such as an electronic chart display system that interacts
   with new surface search radar.
   Lt. John Kidwell commands the new ship and said the nation's heightened
   sense of alert is not diminishing his excitement of taking over the
   helm of a new vessel.
   "The attitude of the world is different, but my feeling is the same,
   and it's the greatest feeling I've ever felt," Kidwell said.
   After the ceremony, it was time to check out the Narwhal and all its
   accouterments.
   "I love it," said Gary Walker of Simi Valley. "It looks like it's an
   appropriate vessel for this type of water. I especially like the new
   launch facility."
   Many of the community members who came to see the Narwhal said they
   felt a renewed sense of appreciation for the Coast Guard.
   "I've lived here for 25 years. I have a boat, and I'm very much aware
   of what the Coast Guard does," said Newport Beach resident Patricia
   Schuler. "I read about its journey, I saw it arrive, so it was
   important for me to be here today."
