http://ltpinfo.gsfc.nasa.gov


   * * * * *
     *
   * Title - Laboratory for Terrestrial Physics * *
   Link to What's New Laboratory for Terrestrial Physics Logo Link to
   Organizational Chart *
   Link to Projects Link to LTP Directory *
   Link to Publications Link to Resources *
   Link to Education and Outreach Link to Related Links Page *


                                      *


      Laboratory for Terrestrial Physics: Mission Statement


   David E. Smith, Chief
   Jack L. Bufton, Associate Chief
   John M. Bosworth, Associate Chief
   Locke M. Stuart, Assistant Chief
   James R. Heirtzler, Staff Scientist for Geophysics
   James A. Smith, Staff Scientist for Data Systems

   The Laboratory for Terrestrial Physics plans and carries out innovative and
   exciting programs in the study of the global properties of the solid Earth,
   global and regional scale vegetation monitoring, biosphere-atmosphere
   interactions and laser remote sensing. Activities include basic and applied
   research, the development and building of remote sensing instruments, the
   design of projects, the aquisition of space data and data from national &
   international field campaigns, the analysis of data, and the publishing and
   disseminating of scientific results.

   Specifications for and data from satellites for monitoring the Earth's
   biosphere are emphasized. Extensive field campaigns, including regional and
   local ecosystem studies and climate/oceanic/biospheric interactions are
   conducted. Major modeling of large-scale biospheric processes and cycles are
   important.

   Studies involve the geophysics and dynamics of the planets and their
   satellites as well as the Earth. Global gravity and magnetic field models are
   developed in the laboratory from space and terrestrial databases along with
   their variations with time. Space geodetic techniques are developed and used
   to investigate the rotational motion of the Earth and to associated with the
   relative motion of tectonic plates, volcanic activities, and post-glacial
   rebound. Space altimetry techniques are used to investigate changes in ocean
   circulation and tides, and land surface topography. Ground-based lasers are
   used to track spacecraft and other lasers are as altimeters from aircraft,
   the Space Shuttle, and from spacecraft.


      WHAT'S NEW

        For the latest news happening in the Laboratory including hot items,
        seminars, special events, and presentations.

      LTP ORGANIZATION

        * Space Geodesy Networks & Sensor Calibration Office (920.1), John
          Degnan, (acting) Head
        * Geoscience Technology Office (920.3), John Degnan, Head
        * Geodynamics Branch (921), Herb Frey, Head
        * Terrestrial Information Systems Branch (922), Ed Masuoka, Head
        * Biospheric Sciences Branch (923), Darrel Williams, Head
        * Laser Remote Sensing Branch (924), Jim Abshire, Head
        * Space Geodesy Branch (926), Ben Chao, Head

   PROJECTS

     Projects in the Laboratory for Terrestrial Physics study the global
     properties of the solid Earth, global and regional scale vegetation
     monitoring, biosphere-atmosphere interactions and in remote sensing,
     as well as the data systems involved with these projects.

   PUBLICATIONS

     Publications from Laboratory scientists

   DIRECTORY

     Personnel email, phone and location directory

   EDUCATION & OUTREACH

     The Laboratory is active in edcuation and outreach projects

   RESOURCES

     Resources for Laboratory personnel including

   RELATED LINKS

     Links to web sites related to the science topics studied in the
     Laboratory


   LTP HOME | WHAT'S NEW | PROJECTS | PUBLICATIONS | EDUCATION & OUTREACH
            ORGANIZATION | DIRECTORY | RESOURCES | RELATED LINKS



Responsible NASA Official: Locke Stuart
Web Curator: Ginger Butcher, SSAI Inc.
Last Updated 01-24-2000

Printable Version of this page

   link to The Earth Science Portal Link to NASA Link to Goddard Link to
   Earth Sciences at Goddard
