http://www.r6.gsa.gov

   GSA Logo Text graphic - US General Services Administration
   Text graphic - Heartland Region

                                                          graphic - spacer


                                              Picture of the American flag
        Link to R6 FTS Link to R6 PBS Link to R6 Human Resources (Intranet
                                     Only) Link to Federal Executive Board

   Link to R6 Homepage



   Lets talk about buildings and space.
   Do you need furniture, appliances, autos or other supplies?
   Click here to order the latest in technology equipment and services
   Interested in GSA contracts?

                          quesani.gif - 5665 Bytes

                              Search for a Link

             graphic - Bobby Approved for Section 508 Guidelines

    Welcome to the award winning GSA Heartland Regional Office in Kansas
                                    City.

    We support Federal agencies with technology, supplies and buildings.
     Much of our service is contracted so that we can offer outstanding
    flexibility and savings through economies of scale. Explore the site
           and contact our Web masters if you have any questions.

                         GSA Business Service Center
                           1500 E. Bannister Road
                            Kansas City, MO 64131
                             Phone (816)926-7203
   Map to GSA from KC International Airport
   Want to learn more about Kansas City?
   help locate missing children.
   Jump to our National Office in Washington D.C.

                        graphic - picture of a pager

                               Call our PAGER!

                             Link to FOIA Pages

      Link to National GSA Page Link to National FTS Page Link to FirstGov
      Link to IT-Solutions Link to The Wireless Store Link to SmallBizMall
                                                        Link to Buyers.gov

        Cookies - Privacy and Security Policy - Site Map - Contact Us
