http://www.lrc.fema.gov

   USFA Seal Blank Image LRC ONLINE CARD CATALOG


                                Card Catalog
                [lrcwebarrow_org.gif]   Search Card Catalog
                [lrcwebarrow_org.gif]      Hints & Tips
                [lrcwebarrow_org.gif]    Interlibrary Loan
                [lrcwebarrow_org.gif]      LRC Home Page
                [lrcwebarrow_org.gif] Report Catalog Problems
                [lrcwebarrow_org.gif]     Privacy Notice
                                    ^M^M


LRC ONLINE CARD CATALOG

Effective immediately, the LRC is closed to the general public. Only students
and staff may visit the LRC. Our policies concerning the use of our toll free
number, reference services, Online Card Catalog and Interlibrary Loan are
unchanged. (posted 9/18/01, 8:10am EST)

   As its name implies, the Online Card Catalog (OCC) is the index that
   provides bibliographic access only to the collection of the National
   Emergency Training Center's (NETC) Learning Resource Center (LRC).
   While the LRC is the on-campus library for the staff and students of
   the National Fire Academy (NFA) and the Emergency Management Institute
   (EMI), the OCC will function for Internet users as a database on fire
   service and emergency management topics. Its fundamental service to
   Internet users is one of identification. The OCC identifies published
   resources on topics of professional interest to fire service and
   emergency management personnel.

   Since the LRC's primary mission is to support the instructional
   activities of the NFA and the EMI, the OCC reflects that goal. The LRC
   concentrates on natural and technological hazards but primarily on
   their social and behavioral sciences aspects. As examples, the LRC has
   some information on seismology but more on earthquake preparedness;
   some information on fire protection engineering but more on public fire
   education. Generally, students at the NFA and EMI are not scientists
   but practicing emergency managers and first responders. The LRC's
   collection has been built for these user populations and the OCC will
   be most useful to them.

   What the Online Card Catalog isn't:

   The OCC is NOT a full-text database. It contains citations to journal
   articles, books and reports, not the text of any of these items. At
   most, some items have abstracts. When available, the LRC will include
   URLs/links in the OCC's records. At this time, however, there are more
   records without URLs than with.
   The OCC is NOT a document delivery service. Searchers cannot order
   copies of any of the items cited in the OCC directly from the LRC.

   So What about Access to Materials?

   All of the display and print formats in the OCC contain one of two
   fields:

   ILL: yes / no
   AVAILABILITY: Available on Interlibrary Loan / Not Available on
   Interlibrary Loan

   These fields indicate whether or not the item is available from the LRC
   on Interlibrary Loan (ILL).

   If you are a first-time user of the OCC, please review our Hints and
   Tips section before you begin searching.


    OCC Last Updated January 29, 2002

   FOOTER: UNITED STATES FIRE ADMINISTRATION
