http://eosdata-f.gsfc.nasa.gov


   NASA Icon

   Access to the Goddard DAAC web pages and data ordering system will be
   unavailable for 3 hours starting at 08:00 AM EST on Wednesday, January,
   30, 2002.

   GES DAAC Title
   Whats New Page
   Data Center Title
   "Your Source for Earth Science Data and Information"

                  NASA/GSFC Security and Privacy Statement

   This is an U.S. Government Computer System. Users are authorized to use
   this system for search and access of EOSDIS data and services. Access
   to this system constitutes the users consent to monitoring. Any attempt
   toward malicious use on this system is prohibited and may be keystroke
   monitored. Maliciousness is punishable by Federal Law.



   Search and Order Data   Check Order Status   FTP Site   Check Order
   Status

   GES DAAC MODIS web pages MODIS Information, Data, and
                            User Services
   Atmospheric Chemistry   Ozone and other trace gas compositions,
   dynamics and energy interactions of the upper atmosphere.
   MODIS Airborne Simulator Image
   MODIS Image Description
   Atmospheric Dynamics   3-dimensional dynamic and thermodynamic state of
   the earth-atmosphere system, from satellite measurements and
   assimilation systems.
   Field Experiments   Aircraft and ground based measurements of
   meteorological variables designed to improve science algorithms and
   validate satellite-derived data products.
   Hydrology   Global precipitation, its variability, and associated
   latent heating, important for studying the global hydrological cycle,
   climate modeling and applications.
   Interdisciplinary   Global land, ocean and atmospheric parameters
   mapped to uniform spatial and temporal scales for basic research and
   applications studies.
   Land Biosphere   Long time-series vegetation and thermal infrared
   brightness temperature data sets for global change research.
   Ocean Color   Remote sensing ocean color data used to investigate ocean
   productivity, marine optical properties, and the interaction of winds
   and currents with ocean biology.
   GES DAAC Software Tools   GES DAAC Data Set Page   Data Center Links
   GES DAAC Education Resources   GES DAAC Newsletter and Information


    Goddard DAAC User Services: 301-614-5224 or 1-877-422-1222 --
    daacuso@daac.gsfc.nasa.gov
    Web Curator -- web-curator@daac.gsfc.nasa.gov
    Responsible NASA Official: Steve Kempler, DAAC Manager --
    kempler@daac.gsfc.nasa.gov
    Last modified:Tue Jan 29 12:10:47 EST 2002
