http://www.nh.nrcs.usda.gov

                           [USEMAP:NRCSbanner.jpg]

                  Forestland Evaluation and Site Assessment

                          Conservation Engineering

                         Farmland Protection Program

                            Ecosystem Restoration

                            Backyard Conservation

                            NH Soils Information

                     National Resources Inventory in NH

                           Environmental Education

                          New Hampshire Soil Tunnel

                          Buffers for Conservation

                          Keeping Pastures Healthy

                    Resource Conservation and Development
      The mission of the Natural Resources Conservation Service is to
   provide leadership in a partnership effort to help people conserve,
   maintain, and improve our natural resources and environment.


                                            More Information on What We Do


                            Training Opportunity

   Do you know someone interested in learning more about New Hampshires
   trees, water, and wildlife?  A Natural Resource Volunteers educational
   series for Community Tree Steward and Earth Team volunteers is coming
   this winter.

   Click here for more info and application materials.


                                 [etweb.gif]

   Sustaining NH's Agriculture

   So many of our fall rituals in New Hampshire revolve around the
   harvest.  The farmers in our State provide us with food, open spaces,
   and even good memories of picking apples and carving pumpkins.

   NRCS works with farmers in New Hampshire to help them with conservation
   activities such as nutrient and pest management, erosion control, water
   quality, and many many others.

   Find out more about NRCS's work with farmers.


                       Apples for sale at a NH market

                 Flowers and pumkins for sale at a NH market


    The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) prohibits discrimination in
   all its programs and activities on the basis of race, color, national
   origin, sex, religion, age, disability, political beliefs, sexual
   orientation, or marital or family status. (Not all prohibited bases
   apply to all programs.) Persons with disabilities who require
   alternative means for communication of program information (Braille,
   large print, audiotape, etc.) should contact USDAs TARGET Center at
   202-720-2600 (voice and TDD).

   To file a complaint of discrimination, write USDA, Director, Office of
   Civil Rights, Room 326W, Whitten Building, 14th and Independence
   Avenue, SW, Washington, DC 20250-9410 or call (202) 720-5964 (voice and
   TDD). USDA is an equal opportunity provider and employer.
