http://water.usgs.gov/education.html

   USGS
   Water Resources

Education Resources

   USGS Learning Web
          lots of links to geology, mapping, water and biology education
          products and activities!

   Water Science for Schools
          find information on many aspects of water, along with pictures,
          data, maps, and an interactive center where you can give
          opinions and test your water knowledge!

   FrogWeb
          of the National Biological Information Infrastructure has a
          focus on amphibian declines and deformities. Visit Captain
          Ribbitt and find out how you can SAVE THE FROGS! and also to
          learn more about our amphibian friends!

   Education Posters
          Cartoon posters on subjects of wetlands, water use, wastewater,
          navigation, ground water, and water quality for grades K-12.

   Information on The Environment
          Compiled by the USGS Geologic Inquiries Group with links to
          frequently asked questions about pesticides and mine drainage,
          general interest publications on acid rain and radon,
          publications for educators and much more!

   Aquifer Basics
          Maps of the major aquifers in the Nation and introductory
          information on groundwater.

   National Atlas of the United States
          Make interactive maps within your web browser! This program
          allows you to make your own maps. Select, change, and display
          map layers. Roam across America and zoom in to reveal more
          detail. Point at map features to learn more about them.

   USGS Fact Sheets
          USGS fact sheets with information about natural resources,
          hazards, environment and information management.

   Water Resources Education Initiative
          find out about the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) educational
          outreach program designed to stimulate interest in fresh water
          resources for students and educators in grades K-12.

Education Materials provided by National Partner Organizations

   Career Opportunities In Water Resources
          prepared by John E. Hubbard, Chair of Universities Council on
          Water Resources Education Committee, as an extension task of the
          NSF/USGS Water Workshop Project.

   Hydrology:
          The Study of Water and Water Problems A Challenge for Today and
          Tomorrow -- a publication of the Universities Council on Water
          Resources.

   What is a Watershed?
          a primer provided by the Conservation Technology Information
          Center

   Learn About Groundwater
          from The Groundwater Foundation you'll find materials on the
          hydrologic cycle, groundwater contamination and protection, how
          wells work, and the "Top 10" ways you can help groundwater.

   What Is Groundwater?
          a primer for kids provided by The Groundwater Foundation

   Frequently Asked Questions about Drinking Water Protection
          provided by the League of Women Voters these address specific
          concerns of those attempting to protect local drinking water
          sources.

National Partner Project Information

   Environmental Research Partnership projects
          with the Frost Valley YMCA, a 5,500+ acre facility providing
          innovative camping, conference, family and environmental
          education programs, include:

          + A Forest Demonstration Site
          + A Streamside Classroom
          + Effects of Forest Harvesting
          + Effects of Air Pollutants

   University of Wisconsin - Environmental Resources Center is comprised
          of University of Wisconsin Cooperative Extension staff who apply
          their research and teaching to the natural resource management
          needs of Wisconsin.

          + Educating Young People About Water materials can help you do
            just that- develop a community-based, youth water education
            program that targets youth and links key community members in
            partnerships--all working toward common water education goals.
          + Give Water A Hand is a national watershed education program
            designed to involve young people in local environmental
            service projects.

   The Groundwater Foundation
          dedicated to informing the public about one of our greatest
          hidden resources, groundwater. Find out about three partner
          projects with this organization:

          + The Groundwater Guardian
          + Children's Groundwater Festival
          + Groundwater University & Grad School

   Know Your Watershed
          initiative of the Conservation Technology Information
          Centerserves as a clearinghouse to help local groups establish
          and maintain watershed partnerships

   Tools for Drinking Water Protection
          provided by the League of Women Voters Education Fund this
          leader's guide is designed to help address key drinking water
          protection issues and accompanies their "Tools for Drinking
          Water Protection" videotape. Also see other water resources
          program information available on their Education Fund page.

Other Educational Resources

   Siberian River Rafting Expedition
          We aim to trace the Yenisey River from source to sea by our own
          power, documenting our exertions, the local cultures and
          environments en-route.

   |Water| |Data| |Pubs & Products| |Tech Resources| |Programs| |Place|
   |Connections.| |Help!|


   U.S. Department of the Interior, U.S. Geological Survey
   Maintainer: Water Webserver Team
   Last update: 14:56:22 Tue 22 Jan 2002
   Privacy Statement || Disclaimer || Accessibility
   URL: http://water.usgs.gov/education.html FirstGov, 'Your First Click
   to the U. S. Government'
