http://www.osti.gov/projects.html

   Department of Energy's (DOE) Science and Technology Information and
   Resources

   banner
   Office of Scientific and Technical Information, US Department of Energy
   Security/Disclaimer Notices
   Physical Sciences Workshop
   About OSTI
   Initiatives
   Site Links
   Search
   Contact

   EnergyFiles EnergyPortal Search
   Products
   Other OSTI Products and Services
   white box

   OSTI News
   Future Information Infrastructure for the Physical Sciences
   Recent Milestones and Organization Information
   Product Development and Long-Term Initiatives
   Alphabetical List of Links to OSTI's Sites and Products
   Search the OSTI Site for Information
   Contact Information
   Collections of Energy Resources
   Search Across EnergyFiles Collections
   Scientific Journals
   Full-Text Reports
   Gateway to Preprint Servers
   Energy Science and Technology Software Center
   Energy Technology Data Exchange
   Outcomes of Past Research and Development


   Spacer image

                              OSTI Initiatives

     * E-PhySCI News

     An E-news service issued quarterly, focusing on developments related
     to information in the Physical Sciences.

     * Subject Portals

     Subject-specific science portals providing full-text, when
     available, online documents pertaining to specific subjects such as
     photovoltaic energy, superconductivity, wind, etc.  By utilizing the
     distributed searching technology, users can search in parallel
     across heterogeneous databases.

     * Physical Sciences Information Infrastructure

     Based on a history of national studies calling for an information
     resource to fill this knowledge gap, the Department of Energy
     developed a concept of a Future Information Infrastructure for the
     Physical Sciences which would facilitate scientific communication
     and increase productivity of the scientific enterprise in the US.
     Recognizing we are now in a new and unique environment, where
     distributed information technologies provide us a means to realize
     this vision, DOE organized and hosted a workshop at the National
     Academy of Sciences to obtain input from the scientific community
     regarding the merits of such an Information Infrastructure.

     * PrePRINT Alert Service

     Provides users an automatic way of receiving the most current
     preprints from 28 databases.  Individuals simply set up a
     personalized profile, and the newest preprint information will be
     delivered to their desktops via email on a weekly basis.

     * GrayLIT Network Web Product

     The GrayLIT Network makes the gray literature of U.S. Federal
     Agencies easily accessible over the Internet. It taps into the
     search
     engines of distributed gray literature collections, enabling the
     user to find information without first having to know which Agency
     has it. The GrayLIT Network is the world's most comprehensive portal
     to Federal gray literature.
     Federal Agencies participating in this project are DoD, DOE, EPA,
     and NASA. Participation will be expanding as the site develops and
     suggestions are welcome via the Contacts/Comments page.

     * Federal R&D Project Summaries Web Product

     This system provides a portal to information about Federal research
     projects, complete with full-text single-query searching across
     databases residing at different agencies.   Federal R&D Project
     Summaries allows agencies to gain a better understanding of the
     research and development efforts in which their counterparts in
     government are involved and provides insight to the
     science-attentive citizen on how its investment in research and
     development is being used.

     * PrePRINT Network
       The PrePRINT Network is a searchable gateway that provides access
       to preprint servers from around the world covering such disciplines
       as physics, mathematics, chemistry, and other topics of interest to
       the Department.  Links to over 1,500 sites housing over 340,000
       documents are provided, and researchers can browse or search
       specific sites or search a selected set of sites. With the addition
       of the PrePRINT Network, OSTIs products capture the three main
       outlets through which researchers disseminate their findings:
       technical report literature (DOE Information Bridge), journal
       literature (PubSCIENCE), and preprints (PrePRINT Network).

     * PubSCIENCE (journal literature)
       PubSCIENCE is a World Wide Web application that provides access to
       peer reviewed scientific and technical journal literature with a
       focus on the physical sciences and related disciplines.  In
       collaboration with peer reviewed journal publishers, PubSCIENCE
       enables users to search across bibliographic citations from
       multiple journal sources, to identify information of interest, and,
       based upon negotiated agreements with the individual publishers, to
       access and view full text journal articles.   This product is
       jointly sponsored by the Department of Energy and the Government
       Printing Office.

     * DOE Electronic Journals Project
       In conjunction with various DOE sites, OSTI is providing desktop
       access to scientific journals for the Department of Energy's
       research and information communities. Selected publishers are
       participating in collaborative pilots to address availability and
       cost issues.

     * Infrastructure Redesign In support of STIP goals and objectives for
       electronic STI exchange and access, a major infrastructure redesign
       at OSTI transitioned STI processing and dissemination from paper to
       electronic in a decentralized environment. New software
       architecture, use of network technology, simplified Dublin Core
       based metadata, and a broader range of electronic formats were
       incorporated. DOE Energy Link (or E-Link) enables sites to
       centrally announce their STI products, with the products either
       submitted to OSTI or linked at the site using a Uniform Resource
       Locator scheme. DOE G 241.1-1, Guide to the Management of
       Scientific and Technical Information, describes DOE's STI
       practices. Electronic STI exchange was implemented October 1, 1998,
       to meet the paper-to-electronic challenge.


                            Bobby Compliant Site
