http://www.nimh.nih.gov/events/prungerleider.cfm

   NIMH logo

                                          National Institute of Mental Health

                                                National Institutes of Health

       NIMH Researcher, Grantees Elected to NAS Institute of Medicine

   October 19, 2001 Contact: NIMH Press Office
                    (301) 443-4536
                    NIMHpress@nih.gov

   NIMH's Leslie Ungerleider, Ph.D., and 5 current grantees are among 60
   scientists recently elected to membership in the Institute of Medicine
   (IOM), part of the National Academy of Sciences (NAS). Election to the
   IOM brings high honor and a charge to participate in its influential
   health policy studies, which are currently looking at issues such as
   suicide prevention and anthrax vaccines.

   Ungerleider, chief, NIMH Laboratory of Brain and Cognition, was just
   last year elected to membership in the prestigious NAS itself. Her
   laboratory has been at the forefront of functional brain imaging
   studies of visual perception, attention, and encoding and storage of
   both long and short-term memories.

   The newly-elected NIMH grantees are:

     * Margaret A. Chesney, Ph.D., professor, School of Medicine,
       University of California, San Francisco.
     * Kenneth L. Davis, M.D., professor of psychiatry, and chair,
       department of psychiatry, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York
       City.
     * Racquel E. Gur, M.D., Ph.D., professor and director,
       neuropsychiatry section, department of psychiatry, University of
       Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia.
     * Janice K. Kiecolt-Glaser, Ph.D., professor of psychiatry and
       psychology, and director, division of health psychology, department
       of psychiatry, College of Medicine, Ohio State University,
       Columbus.
     * Jeffrey A. Lieberman, M.D., professor of psychiatry, pharmacology,
       and radiology; vice chair for research and scientific affairs,
       department of psychiatry; and director, Mental Health and
       Neuroscience Clinical Research Center, School of Medicine,
       University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill.
     * David R. Williams, Ph.D., M.P.H., professor of sociology, and
       senior research scientist, Survey Research Center, Institute for
       Social Research, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.
     * Robert D. Gibbons, Ph.D., professor of biostatistics, and director,
       Center for Health Statistics, University of Illinois, Chicago.

   Updated: October 25, 2001
   Posted: October 22, 2001

   | NIMH Home | Welcome | News and Events | Clinical Trials | Funding
   Opportunities |
   | For the Public | For Practitioners | For Researchers | Intramural
   Research |
   | Top |

   For information about NIMH and its programs, please email, write or
   phone us.

   NIMH Public Inquiries
   6001 Executive Boulevard, Rm. 8184, MSC 9663
   Bethesda, MD 20892-9663 U.S.A.
   Voice (301) 443-4513; Fax (301) 443-4279
   TTY (301) 443-8431
