http://edworkforce.house.gov/press/press107/workforceaccomp122001.htm

                  Committee on Education and the Workforce


               House Education & the Workforce Committee

                        John Boehner, Chairman
2181 Rayburn HOB · (202) 225-4527

                                                                                      FACT SHEET

                   Supporting America’s Working Families:
     Workforce Policy Accomplishments of the 107^th Congress (First
     Session)

                                                        December 20, 2001

     House Republicans have devoted significant energy this year to the
     needs of American workers and their families. From improving health
     care and strengthening retirement security to providing emergency
     relief for workers displaced by the September 11th attacks,
     Republicans on the House Education and the Workforce Committee have
     worked successfully on a number of fronts to modernize federal labor
     laws and help working families meet the challenges they face in
     today’s economy.

     A quick summary of some of the major actions taken by House
     Republicans this year to help the American worker:
     * Norwood-Fletcher Patients’ Bill of Rights. Ending six years of
       congressional gridlock on the difficult issue of HMO patient
       protection, in August the House approved a compromise patients’
       bill of rights negotiated by President Bush and two members of the
       House Education & the Workforce Committee, Dr. Charlie Norwood
       (R-GA) and Dr. Ernie Fletcher (R-KY). The House-passed patients’
       bill of rights will hold health plans accountable while preventing
       frivolous, unlimited lawsuits against employers and unions who
       voluntarily provide health coverage to families. The measure also
       gives patients a rapid medical review process for disputed denials
       of care, ensuring that medical decisions will be made by
       independent doctors and physicians, not lawyers or HMO bureaucrats.
     * Repeal of Flawed Ergonomics Regulations. In March, Congress and
       President Bush took action to help employees and employers alike by
       repealing the flawed “ergonomics safety” rule imposed in November
       2000 as one of the Clinton Administration’s parting acts. The
       regulation - one of the most complex, burdensome, and questionable
       rules in the 30-year history of the Occupational Safety and Health
       Administration (OSHA) - would have saddled six million employers
       and 93 million employees with restrictive new rules at a time when
       America’s economy was already showing signs of a slowdown. The
       repeal of this unworkable regulation allows the Labor Department to
       develop a responsible and comprehensive approach that truly
       protects the interests of workers and employers.
     * Giving Workers Access to Retirement Savings Investment Advice.
       Wealthier Americans can afford to hire a professional investment
       advisor to help manage their retirement savings, but rank-and-file
       workers and their families can’t always afford such a luxury. As a
       result, many rank-and-file workers have to fend for themselves in a
       sea of confusing and conflicting investment information - a
       situation that gained new attention this year when many workers
       with 401(k) retirement savings accounts lost money on their
       investments for the first time ever. On November 15, the
       Republican-led House passed the Retirement Security Advice Act
       (H.R. 2269), with the strong support of 64 Democrats. The bill,
       authored by Rep. John Boehner (R-OH), modernizes federal law to
       allow employers to provide workers with access to professional
       investment advice as an employee benefit as long as the advisers
       fully disclose any fees or potential conflicts. The bill
       establishes important safeguards to ensure that workers receive
       advice solely in their best interest and gives workers the
       information they need to maximize their retirement savings.
     * Pension Reform and Retirement Security. Reinforcing its commitment
       to enhance retirement security this year, Congress overwhelmingly
       approved a landmark retirement security and pension reform bill
       authored by Reps. Rob Portman (R-OH) and Ben Cardin (D-MD). The
       measure, signed into law by the President, expands retirement
       security options for millions of American workers and expands small
       business retirement plans.
     * Emergency Relief for Displaced U.S. Workers. On December 20, the
       House passed the Economic Growth and Security Act, an economic
       stimulus package that includes key elements of President Bush’s
       plan to expand the federal “safety net” for workers displaced in
       the wake of the September 11th attacks and its economic
       aftershocks. Originally introduced in the House as the Back to Work
       Act by Committee Chairman John Boehner (R-OH), Employer-Employee
       Relations Subcommittee Chairman Sam Johnson (R-TX), and 21st
       Century Competitiveness Subcommittee Chairman Buck McKeon (R-CA),
       the provisions would help displaced workers maintain health
       coverage for their families while they’re out of work. They would
       provide $4 billion in special National Emergency Grants (NEGs) to
       help displaced workers maintain health coverage, supplement their
       income, and receive job training as the economy recovers from its
       current slowdown. The Education and the Workforce committee also
       held hearings on the issue, including one with Labor Secretary
       Elaine Chao, to emphasize the need to utilize existing programs to
       help displaced workers instead of creating new bureaucracies.
     * Modernizing Federal Law for 21st Century Employees. The
       Subcommittee on Workforce Protections approved H.R. 2070 -- the
       Sales Incentive Compensation Act -- introduced by Reps. Patrick
       Tiberi (R-OH). H.R. 2070 addresses the problem of fitting 21st
       Century salespeople into a law crafted for a 1938 workforce by
       amending the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) to provide a new
       exemption from minimum wage and overtime for certain types of
       salespeople, enabling them to be more efficient, effective, and
       productive.
     * Helping Parents Balance Demands of Family and Work. Rep. Judy
       Biggert (R-IL) introduced the Working Families Flexibility Act
       (H.R. 1992) to give working men and women more power and control
       over their lives by allowing them, through an agreement with their
       employer, to choose paid time off as compensation for working
       overtime hours. The flexible working arrangement, known as ‘comp
       time,’ is designed to help achieve working men and women achieve a
       greater balance between family and work obligations.
     * Helping Workers Get Extra Pay for Extra Effort. Rep. Cass Ballenger
       (R-NC) introduced the Rewarding Performance in Compensation Act
       (H.R. 1602), a bill to encourage employers to offer bonus pay to
       their workers. Employers have found that rewarding workers for high
       quality work improves performance and the ability of the company to
       compete. A hearing by the Workforce Protections Subcommittee,
       presided over by subcommittee vice-chair Judy Biggert (R-IL),
       revealed that while the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) does not
       prohibit employers from providing these types of rewards, it makes
       it difficult and confusing to do so.
     * Safeguarding the Future of Retiree Health Benefits. Led by chairman
       Sam Johnson (R-TX), the Employer-Employee Relations Subcommittee
       held its first in a series of hearings to examine the issue of
       health care coverage for retirees. With the changing nature of the
       workforce and the retiree population, it is becoming increasingly
       more difficult for employers to meet the health or long-term care
       needs of their workers while remaining competitive in the global
       economy of the 21st century.
     * Exploring Remedies to America’s National Nursing Shortage.
       Exploring an important issue that gained new attention in the wake
       of the September 11th attacks, the Education and the Workforce
       Committee held a full committee hearing this fall to examine the
       causes and impact of the national nursing shortage as well as
       possible remedies for Congress to consider. Hospitals are facing a
       growing shortage of qualified, experienced nursing professionals,
       and are increasingly challenged to find new ways to recruit and
       retain nurses.
     * Genetic Non-Discrimination. The House Education & the Workforce
       Committee this year began an extensive look at current laws and
       regulations, federal and state, that protect employees from genetic
       discrimination and govern the use of genetic information in
       employer-sponsored health plans. The committee examined efforts
       already being taken by employers to ban genetic discrimination, and
       learned about the effectiveness of current laws. Witnesses urged
       Congress to proceed cautiously before crafting any new mandates.
     * Protecting the Rights of Union Members. More than a dozen years
       have passed since the U.S. Supreme Court’s ruling in Communication
       Workers v. Beck that should protect union members from being forced
       to support causes with which they genuinely disagree. But in
       practice, the Beck decision is rarely enforced, and individual
       workers still find themselves unable to freely exercise their
       rights. Workforce Protections Subcommittee Chairman Charles Norwood
       (R-GA) this year held several hearings on the enforcement (or lack
       of enforcement) of worker rights under the Beck decision.
