http://www.nywg.cap.gov/OPS.htm

   Operations


   Current readiness Status of Aircraft/Vehicles


   Financial Responsibility for aircraft operation  (Rates have
   changed)

   The document is available in either MS Word or Adobe Reader.

   MS Word

   Adobe Reader


   CAPF108: for a copy of the NYW Financial Reimbursement Procedure, click
   here. It is an adobe reader format.


   The following Adobe formatted document is available to assist with
   completing the NYWF6


   To review the mission symbols for the NYWF6


   Link to Monthly Ops Report

   The above  link will transfer you to another web server. To be used to
   enter aircraft time (not glider). Please enter all information for your
   group's aircraft, month you are reporting the time for and your name
   and email. If you have any problems with the form, please email the NYW
   Web master with the problem.  The form is printable so that you or your
   commander can sign it. You should only use this link if you are
   reporting the time on the corporate aircraft.


   Link to Glider Monthly Ops Report

   The above  link will transfer you to another web server. To be used to
   enter  glider time.  Please enter all information for your group's
   glider, month you are reporting the time for and your name and email.
   If you have any problems with the form, please email the NYW Web master
   with the problem.  The form is printable so that you or your commander
   can sign it. You should only use this link if you are reporting the
   time on the corporate glider.


   Link to the Pilot Information Report

   The above  link will transfer you to another web server. To be used to
   enter  pilot information.  Please enter all information, including
   email address . If you have any problems with the form, please email
   the NYW Web master with the problem.  The form is printable by using
   your web browser print option. You should only use this link if you are
   reporting pilot information.




   NER Aircraft Information File


   For the lastest updates to the NER AIF  (Binder information for the
   Corporate Aircraft). The prescribed NER forms for this binder are
   available via the hot link.



   Link to Status Update

   The above link will transfer you to another web server.  Please enter
   your name, unit, and select your group's aircraft or van that you are
   changing the status of.




   Link to Monthly Vehicle Report

   The above link will transfer you to the National Web page, please click
   on the Publications icon (left hand site, 2nd from the top). After you
   get to the publication site, click on the E-business link (at the top
   of page or any eBusiness on the page).  Please have your CAPID ready.
   Once  the page is displayed, enter your CAPID, NY wing and the last 3
   digits of your unit. When your information is displayed, you will see
   the link ability to Vehicle Information.  On the Vehicle Information
   page, enter your vehicle number, and date.  Once the update screen is
   displayed, enter the information for your vehicle.  Please print a copy
   for your records.

   You must be a member of the unit to which the vehicle is assigned, in
   order to update the information. You should only use this link if you
   are reporting the information on the corporate vehicle.  You will not
   come back to this site.  Please fax your completed for CAPF73 to NYW
   LGT by the 5th of the month.



   Priority Utilization of the Corporate Vehicles

   SAR/DR
   Aerospace Related activities
   Local Cadet Programs
   Local Senior programs
   Transport to wing/region conferences
   Operator Requirements:

   Operate the vehicle in compliance with all state, federal,
   commonwealth, local laws, regulations and ordinances governing
   operation of vehicles

   Possess a valid state drivers license (not suspended or revoked)

   Posses a current CAPF75 issued by NYW HQ (valid for a 2 year period)


   Reporting Requirements:

   CAPF73 must be to NYW HQ  LGT by the 5 of each month

   National web form for Vehicle utilization must be done by the 5th of
   each month


   Return to Op/Es/Cd page


   Last update: 01/25/02
