http://www.fdic.gov/about/diversity/consent/index.html

   Skip Global Header FDIC Global Navigation Links

   Approved Consent Decree

   As stated in the Order linked below, at the fairness hearing on
   November 26, 2001, the United States District Court for the District of
   Columbia approved the settlement of the Conanan class action complaint
   filed on behalf of African-American employees. The class complaint
   alleged race discrimination in competitive and noncompetitive
   promotions and selections for other positions. The FDIC and the Class
   Representatives were involved in mediation and intense negotiations for
   months, and after years of litigation reached a settlement. This site
   contains the approved consent decree and exhibits that explain the
   settlement. Exhibits 2 through 6 on this site were updated on May 24,
   2001, to reflect the final versions approved by the Court. Exhibit 5 on
   this site was updated on October 17, 2001, to reflect the revised
   version of the Notice of Fairness Hearing approved by the Court. The
   revised Notice changed the deadline to file comments or objections
   regarding the Consent Decree to October 31, 2001. Also linked below are
   the Plaintiffs' Motion for Final Approval of Consent Decree and Class
   Certification, and the Memorandum in Support of the Motion, filed with
   the Court on November 14, 2001. As detailed in the other Order linked
   below, on November 21, 2001, the Court approved the Plaintiffs' request
   to amend the Consent Decree with additional language. You should ensure
   that you have the latest versions of these documents.

   The links labeled "PDF" in the list below reference Portable Document
   Format files. Adobe Acrobat, a reader available for free on the
   Internet, is required to display or print PDF files. You may also
   request a printed copy of these files.
     * Table of Contents of Consent Decree HTML or PDF (16Kb)
     * Consent Decree HTML or PDF (19.9Kb)
     * Exhibit 1: Agreement to Mediate HTML or PDF (187Kb)
     * Exhibit 2: Notice of Pendency of Class Action and Proposed Consent
       Decree HTML or PDF (38Kb)
     * Exhibit 3: Claim Form HTML or PDF (12Kb)
     * Exhibit 4: Notice of Individual Monetary Award Under Proposed
       Consent Decree HTML or PDF (9Kb)
     * Exhibit 5: Notice of Fairness Hearing HTML or PDF (13Kb)
     * Exhibit 6: Notice of Monetary Distribution Formula Under Proposed
       Consent Decree HTML or PDF (40Kb)
     * Plaintiff's Motion for Final Approval of Consent Decree and Class
       Certification: HTML or PDF (9Kb)
     * Memorandum in Support of the Motion for Final Approval of Consent
       Decree: HTML or PDF (80Kb)

   Last Updated 01/10/2002 conanancd@fdic.gov

   Sitemap | Search | Help | Home
