http://science.ksc.nasa.gov/shuttle/missions/sts-97/mission-sts-97.html

      sts-97-patch

   STS-97 (101)

             Endeavour (15)
             Pad 39-B (46)
             101st Shuttle Mission
             15th Flight OV-105
             Night Launch
             Night Landing (16)
             KSC Landing (53)

             NOTE: Click Here for Countdown Homepage

   Crew:

             Brent W. Jett (3), Commander
             Michael J. Bloomfield (2), Pilot
             Joseph R. Tanner (3), Mission Specialist
             Carlos I. Noriega (2), Mission Specialist
             Marc Garneau (3), (CSA) Mission Specialist

   Milestones:

             OPF -- 02/24/00 (Reference KSC Shuttle Status 2/28/2000)
             VAB --
             PAD -- 10/31/00 (Reference KSC Shuttle Status 10/31/2000)

   Payload:

             Space Station Flight ISS-04-4A (PV Module P6)

   Mission Objectives:

             Click here for Additional Info on STS-97

             STS-97 will build and enhance the capabilities of the
             International Space Station.It will deliver the first set of
             U.S.-provided solar arrays and batteries as well as radiators to
             provide cooling. The Shuttle will spend 5-days docked to the
             station, which at that time will be staffed by the first station
             crew. Two spacewalks will be conducted to complete assembly
             operations while the arrays are attached and unfurled. A
             communications system for voice and telemetry also will be
             installed.

             During 10 days punctuated by space flight firsts, the Space
             Shuttle Endeavour on mission STS-97 will see the International
             Space Station spread its wings -- giant solar arrays that will
             quintuple the station's electrical power, enabling future
             unparalleled research.

             The 240-foot solar arrays to be attached and unfolded by
             Endeavours international crew of five Commander Brent Jett,
             Pilot Mike Bloomfield and Mission Specialists Joe Tanner, Carlos
             Noriega and Canadian Space Agency astronaut Marc Garneau will be
             the longest structure to ever fly in space. Endeavour will carry
             aloft the United States-developed solar arrays, associated
             electronics, batteries, cooling radiator, and support structure.
             The entire 17-ton package is called the P6 Integrated Truss
             Segment, and it will be the heaviest and largest element yet
             delivered to the station aboard a Shuttle.

             The addition of the huge solar arrays only the first of three
             identical such sets that will be attached to the station in
             coming years -- will clearly distinguish the International Space
             Station from any predecessor spacecraft. They will provide the
             station with more electrical power, a key to successful modern
             research, than anything that has flown before. Endeavour also
             will be the first Space Shuttle to visit an inhabited
             International Space Station, although the Shuttle crew and
             station crew of Commander Bill Shepherd, Pilot Yuri Gidzenko and
             Flight Engineer Sergei Krikalev will not greet one another until
             the hatches are fully opened between the spacecraft on the
             seventh day of the mission.

             Endeavour is targeted for launch on STS-97 at 10:05 p.m. EST
             from the Kennedy Space Center. Florida, at the opening of a
             launch window that extends for between two to five minutes.
             After two days spent slowly closing in on the complex and
             checking out equipment, Jett will maneuver Endeavour to dock
             with the International Space Station just before 2 p.m. on Dec.
             2, given an on-time launch.

             Immediately after docking, Garneau will use the shuttle's
             50-foot, Canadian-built robotic arm to initially lift the truss
             segment a few feet out of the shuttle cargo bay, holding it in
             position there overnight to control its temperature. Also, the
             Shuttle crew will open the station's outermost hatch and stow
             some early supplies in an outer compartment of the station to
             await retrieval later in the mission by the Expedition One crew.

             On the following day, the crew will begin installing the solar
             arrays on the station, with Tanner and Noriega conducting the
             first of two planned six and a half hour space walks. With
             Tanner and Noriega assisting from outside, Garneau will use the
             robotic arm to attach the truss segment package, including the
             folded arrays and electronics, atop a smaller exterior framework
             already on the station. Tanner and Noriega will visually assist
             Garneau to properly align the new segment. The two space walkers
             will tighten attachment bolts to ensure the P6 truss is
             mechanically secure. Next, they will connect umbilicals for
             power and data between the new equipment and the rest of the
             station, as well as release various restraints that were in
             place to protect equipment during the Shuttles launch. Near the
             end of the first space walk, the crew will send commands to
             begin deploying the solar arrays, folded for launch into a box
             only 20 inches thick, to their full outstretched length.

             A second space walk by Tanner and Noriega on the sixth day of
             the mission will move a communications antenna to a location
             high on the new truss segment. During the last half of the space
             walk, they will prepare the station for the next shuttle visit
             that will deliver the first laboratory, the United States'
             Destiny lab, in January 2001. The capability exists to add a
             third space walk by Tanner and Noriega to the mission if needed.

             The Shuttle and station crews will greet one another for the
             first time on the seventh day of the mission as they fully open
             the hatches between the two spacecraft. The crews will spend two
             days working together, transferring supplies and equipment back
             and forth. Endeavour's visit and the power from the new solar
             arrays will allow the station crew to begin conducting some of
             the first experiments aboard the station after Endeavour
             departs. Those experiments will include: student experiments
             conducted in conjunction with the national JASON education
             project that will study the effects of space on soybean and corn
             seeds; an experiment developed by the Air Force and the
             Massachusetts Institute of Science and Technology that will
             study new control mechanisms for satellites; and several medical
             evaluations that will study the effectiveness of exercise on the
             station's treadmill and other exercise equipment.

             Based an on-time launch on Nov. 30, Bloomfield is scheduled to
             undock Endeavour from the station just after noon CST on Dec. 8,
             performing a full-circle flyaround of the complex before
             departing the vicinity. The day after the undocking will be
             spent preparing Endeavour for landing, and the Shuttle's
             touchdown would occur at the Kennedy Space Center about 5:46
             p.m. CST on Dec. 10, nine days, 20 hours and 41 minutes after
             launch.

             STS-97 will be the 15th flight of Endeavour and the 101st Space
             Shuttle mission.

   Launch:

             November 30, 2000 10:06 p.m. EST Launch Window was less than 5
             min.
             External tank loading was orignally scheduled for 12:30 p.m. EST
             but was delayed until 2:51 p.m while the Mission Management Team
             discussed a loose bracket hanging down from the side of the
             white room. The White Room access arm was retracted and the
             bracket was removed at 2:35 p.m. At 5:35 p.m. EST, external tank
             loading was complete. At 6:16pm the flight crew left the O&C
             building and departed for launch Pad 39-B. They entered the
             orbiter and
             hatch was closed and locked for flight. With about 9 minutes
             remaining in the planned 45 minute hold (9:46 p.m. EST) the
             range identified they were a no-go for launch while they
             investigated a problem with a momentary signal dropout. The
             problem was quickly resolved and the countdown picked up on
             schedule at the T-minus 9 minute mark at 9:57 p.m EST. Launch
             occured at the opening of the window.

   Orbit:

             Altitude: 173nm
             Inclination: 51.6
             Orbits: 170
             Duration: 10 days, 19 hours, 58 minutes, 20 seconds.
             Distance: miles

   Hardware:

             SRB:
             SRM:
             ET : SN-105
             MLP : 1
             SSME-1: SN-
             SSME-2: SN-
             SSME-3: SN-

   Landing:

             KSC December 11, 6:04 p.m. EST KSC Runway 15

             A go for the deorbit burn was given at 4:37 p.m. EST . The burn
             took place at 4:57 EST. Landing Times:

             Main Gear Down MET 10 days 19 hours 57 min 25 sec (6:03:25 EST)
             Nose Gear Down MET 10 days 19 hours 57 min 34 sec (6:03:34 EST)
             Wheel Stop MET 10 days 19 hours 58 min 20 sec (6:04:20 EST)

   Mission Highlights:

             STS-97 Flight Day 1 Highlights:
             STS-97 Flight Day 2 Highlights:
             STS-97 Flight Day 3 Highlights:
             STS-97 Flight Day 4 Highlights:
             STS-97 Flight Day 5 Highlights:
             STS-97 Flight Day 6 Highlights:
             STS-97 Flight Day 7 Highlights:
             STS-97 Flight Day 8 Highlights:
             STS-97 Flight Day 9 Highlights:
             STS-97 Flight Day 10 Highlights:
             STS-97 Flight Day 11 Highlights:

      KSC Logo KSC Home Mission Index Logo Mission Index sts-92 Patch Last
      Mission STS-92 sts-98 Patch Next Mission STS-98
        __________________________________________________________________

      Last Updated Wednesday July 25 06:41:43 EDT 2001


       Jim Dumoulin (dumoulin@titan.ksc.nasa.gov)
