http://www.mvhcb.gov/mvhcb_13h/Documents.htm


   Skip to content area Skip to left side navigation Skip to bottom page
   MVHCB logo

   Documents
   PRD-5
   Force Health Protection
   Research Reports
   Clinical Practice Guidelines
   Health Consequences of the Gulf War
   Deployment Readiness-a review of sexual trauma
   Related Links
   Veterans Affairs
   Health & Human Services
   Defense Link News
   Office of the Special Assistant for Gulf War Illness
   Other DOD, DHHS and VA agencies

                    To read PDF Files
                   Get Acrobat Reader


   MVHCB title
               News & Events Home Members Only FAQs

   Documents


   Presidential Review Directive 5 (PRD-5)
   Primary guidance for the Military and Veterans Health Coordinating
   Board is found in the National Science and Technology Council
   Presidential Review Directive 5 (PRD-5) "A National Obligation:
   Planning for Health Preparedness for and Readjustment of the Military,
   Veterans, and Their Families after Future Deployments". This document
   was published in August 1998 by the Executive Office of the President,
   Office of Science and Technology Policy, and can be viewed in its
   entirety on this website under PRD-5.
   Force Health Protection
   The vision of the PRD-5 is reflected in the Department of Defense
   emphasis on Force Health Protection. From the Medical Readiness
   Division on the Joint Chief of Staff is the vision for Force Health
   Protection which can be read in its original form as a 4 meg PDF file
   or viewed in abstracted form on a dedicated website.
   Research Reports
   Since 1996, several key reports have been published to inform Congress
   of progress made since Gulf War to learn more about the health issues
   associated with military deployments. The National Academy of Science
   (NAS), through the Institute of Medicine (IOM) has extensively studied
   environmental and health issues to advise Congress on strategies that
   may be useful in the future prevention of deployment-related problems.
   These reports can be accessed through this website under Research
   Reports.
   Deployment Readiness
   Providing information is a critical first step in the coordination of
   efforts required to identify, verify and manage problems. The MVHCB is
   taking steps to develop a repository of information that might not
   otherwise be easily found. Sexual trauma has recently been identified
   as a deployment-related issue. Relevant articles in this area may be
   found on this website under Deployment Readiness.


   [hr.gif]

   [ News & Events | Home | Members Only | FAQs ]

   [ Contact Us | Private Policy | VA Disclaimer ]
