http://www.pmel.noaa.gov/tsunami/Review98/hazard_r98.html

                Eddie Bernard, Frank González and Hugh Milburn
             The National Tsunami Hazard Mitigation Steering Group

                                     Goal

    A State/Federal partnership created to reduce the impacts of tsunamis
    on U.S. Coastal areas by coordinating the state efforts of Alaska,
    California,
    Hawaii, Oregon, and Washington with the federal activities of the
    National
    Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the Federal Emergency
    Management Agency, and the U.S. Geological Survey.

    Accomplishments

    Hazard Assessment
                                  Warning Guidance
      •  Tsunami inundation
          maps prepared for
          Oregon and Washington

    Maps identifying the areas
    of likely tsunami flooding for
    at-risk communities are
    being constructed to guide
    local tsunami hazard
    planning. The tsunami
    inundation map for Newport,
    Oregon, shown here, was
    created using a combination
    of numerical models and
    tsunami scenarios. The
    Center for Tsunami
    Inundation Mapping Efforts
    (TIME) was created to assist
    the states in evacuation map
    production.
                                    •  Deployed two real-time tsunami
                                        detectors

                                    •  Formulated plan to upgrade seismic
         networks in Alaska, California, Oregon,
         Washington, and Hawaii

                                 Mitigation

     •  Completed inventory of mitigation material

     •  Established mitigation plans for Alaska,
         California, Hawaii, Oregon, and Washington

   Tsunami mitigation tools are being developed for the
   states and local communities based on an evaluation
   of needs and an assessment of existing products.
   These signs have been adopted by the Steering Group
   as appropriate signage for coastal communities.

   Tsunami warnings will be improved through
   the installation of an array of deep ocean
   tsunami detectors and a major upgrade of
   existing earthquake detection networks. The
   locations of the oceanic sensors and land-
   based seismic sensors are identified on this
   map. These sensors will provide faster, more
   accurate estimates of tsunamis.

                              Future Directions

                              Hazard Assessment

     •  Prepare tsunami inundation maps for
         Alaska, California, and Hawaii

                              Warning Guidance

     •  Deploy next-generation tsunami detectors

     •  Install new seismic stations in Alaska,
         California, Oregon, ;and Washington

                                 Mitigation

     •  Implement mitigation plans for Alaska,
         California, Hawaii, Oregon, and Washington

                   http://www.pmel.noaa.gov/tsunami-hazard

             Funding for this research was provided by NOAA/OAR

                         PMEL 1998 Program Review -
            http://www.pmel.noaa.gov/programs/98prog-agenda.html
