http://rmrpbs.gsa.gov/internet/pbsweb.nsf/95dc88cae60b5ec5872569ae00607efa/1aecf89c0d5a02e487256b33005f5761?OpenDocument


   GSA Starmark Logo U.S. General Services Administration

   Rocky Mountain Region - Public Buildings Service


   Our Mission
   Menu Of Services
   Contacts
   Organization
   Property Portfolio
   Capital Projects
   News & Information
   Other Resources
   Business With Us
   Important Numbers
   Image: Buildings in the Rocky Mountain Region


   PBS Home Search Map RMR Home FTS FSS GSA
   GSA Awards $1.6M Contract to Woman Owned Small Business, Bennett,
   Wagner and Grody Architects
   Group of people signing contracts Denver, CO – December 20, 2001. The
   Rocky Mountain Region U. S. General Services Administration (GSA) and
   the Small Business Administration (SBA) of Colorado celebrated in
   awarding Bennett, Wagner and Grody Architects (BWG), a Woman Owned
   Small Business (WOSB), a contract for $1.6M. The contract will be used
   for the Byron G. Rogers Courthouse Renovation project, scheduled to
   launch Jan 2, 2001. Of the 12 largest agencies in Colorado monitored by
   SBA, GSA is the first to award an Architecture and Engineering contract
   to a WOSB. It is the largest Architecture and Engineering WOSB contract
   award given by GSA's Rocky Mountain Region.

   Following the contract signing, Larry Trujillo, Regional Administrator
   for GSA's Rocky Mountain Region congratulated BWG and remarked, "It is
   extremely satisfying to know that our goal of broadly including all
   vendors regardless of gender or ethnicity is being met." Jose Martinez,
   SBA, Procurement Center Representative commented, "This award is an
   excellent example that when given an opportunity small businesses can
   provided outstanding services at fair market prices which in turn
   create local jobs and helps keep the local economy strong.
   Denver-based BWG is an architecture and interior design firm
   specializing in civic and educational projects throughout the Rocky
   Mountain West. It's their mission to give clients prompt creative
   design solutions that are responsive to their functional needs and of a
   quality that will withstand the test of time. It has completed planning
   and/or design projects valued at $50 million per year on average.
   Bennett Wagner and Grody has earned a reputation for creating humane
   environments that combine a high-level of aesthetics, the most
   appropriate and updated technology, and an appreciation for the art of
   craftsmanship.
   The Byron G. Rogers Courthouse, which opened in 1965, will undergo a
   major rehabilitation. Upon completion the building will become home to
   the Federal Probation Office, the U.S. Marshals and will contain
   offices for the senior judges.
   The Rocky Mountain Region's Public Buildings Service (PBS), one of
   three services within GSA, provides work environments for nearly 50,000
   federal employees in its six-state region. As the builder, developer,
   lessor and manager of federally owned and leased properties totaling 16
   million square feet within the region its mission is to improve the
   effectiveness of the Federal Government by ensuring quality work
   environments for its employees. For additional information about PBS
   visit our website at http://rmrpbs.gsa.gov.
   CONTACT:
   Jessica Higgins
   Marketing Department
   U.S. General Services Administration
   303-236-8014 xtn. 234
   303-236-7608 (fax)
   Jessica.Higgins@gsa.gov
   http://rmrpbs.gsa.gov

   PBS Home Search Map RMR Home FTS FSS GSA
   Career Opportunities   -   Privacy and Security Policy   -   Contact Us
