http://info.ihs.gov/HeritageHealth.pdf

   Herit Heritaage & Health ge & Health Health Care for American Indians
   and Alaska Na tives THE CIRCLE OF LIFE The "Circle of totality of
   creation that Life" or hoop is dwells in those regions. one of the most
   The four directions meaningful symbols in provide a road map American
   Indian life. It for life using symbolizes the continuing traditional
   Indian circle of life, which includes beliefs. The Circle of birth,
   adolescence, Life symbol is placed on adulthood, elder years, the many
   Indian Health passing on, and then the Service documents as a rebirth.
   This concept is an reminder of the powerful integral part of the
   symbolism of link between heritage and the Medicine Wheel, which shows
   health for American Indians and the four cardinal directions and the
   Alaska Natives. BREAKING THROUGH STEREOTYPES Millions of Americans know
   little about the American Indian health care and often rely on
   erroneous stereotypes. The first year Dr. David Yost was clinical
   director at the Indian Health Service hospital in Whiteriver, Arizona,
   he received a package from a medical group practice on the East Coast.
   Nurses there had arranged for all their diabetic patients to save their
   used insulin syringes. They put the containers in a giant barrel and
   shipped them to Whiteriver. "They're used, but we know you have the
   worst health care" is what the nurses told Yost. His reply: "These are
   well meaning people whose picture of Indian health care was equivalent
   to some jungle village." Even though American Indians and Alaska
   Natives have the poorest health of any minority population in the
   country, according to Healthy People 2000, the American Indian health
   system is successful. Since Could a greater miracle take place 1973,
   infant mortality has decreased by 54 percent, maternal mortality by
   than for us to look through each 65 percent. From 1940 to 1990, the
   life-expectancy gap between other's eyes for a moment? American Indians
   and whites narrowed from 13.2 years to 2.9 years. --- Henry David
   Thoreau Seeing this success, indigenous populations in countries around
   the world have begun to use the Indian health care model. The
   recognition of the Indian health system by the international community
   has reached a point where the tribes, the urban Indian programs, Indian
   organizations, and the Indian Health Service have been requested to
   sponsor in the United States the fourth worldwide conference on
   indigenous health in the year 2002. That conference is to be called,
   "Healing Our Spirits World Wide." IN HARMONY Perhaps more than any
   other aspect of American Indian life, Indian cultural beliefs and
   traditional Indian medicine arouse the nation's curiosity. Derided as
   pagan witchcraft by European settlers 200 years ago, co-opted by pop
   culture into "new age" movement today, and dismissed by scientists as
   nonsense, traditional American Indian health practices are universally
   misunderstood and oversimplified. While beliefs, ceremonies, and
   rituals differ from tribe to tribe Traditional Indian values are
   important for around the country, many American Indians share an
   underlying the Indian health care system. belief that the natural or
   correct state of all things is harmony. The beliefs, traditions, and
   customs handed down through many The values of human dignity, honesty,
   generations also play a principal role in individual and collective
   compassion, coupled with shared values of Indian identity. Native
   Americans strive for a close integration many different tribes and
   cultures that have within the family, clan, and tribe and to live in
   harmony with their come to be spoken of as "Indian values" of
   environment. This occurs simultaneously on physical, mental, and
   listening, mutual respect, dignity, and spiritual levels; thus,
   wellness is a state of harmony and balance harmony must always be at
   the forefront of between mind, body, spirit, and the environment. what
   we do how we do it. Healthy American Indian and Alaska Native
   communities are at the center of the circle of Medical treatment
   provided to a person within this belief system my vision for Indian
   health. requires integration of their beliefs with modern medical
   practice. Finding the solution is often a delicate balancing act. The
   following --- Dr. Michael H. Trujillo, Director, IHS story, which
   appears in the November 1997 issue of The New Physician, illustrates
   that fine line. "A few years ago, Dr. Yost was called to the hospital
   bedside of an Apache girl meticulously clad in buckskin. The 11
   year-old had developed pneumonia while preparing for what was to be the
   biggest moment of her young life: the Sunrise Dance. Apache tradition
   dictates that when a girl has her first menstrual cycle, she is to have
   an intense, four day ceremony in which the whole community
   participates. The timing couldn't have been worse. In septic shock and
   on the verge of death, the girl needed to be moved to a city for
   emergency care. But her grandmother, who oversees preparations for the
   ritual, stood firm behind her conviction that to miss this rite of
   passage was the same as death for the girl. Yost was brought in to
   negotiate with the tribal chairman. With extended family and hundreds
   of community members watching, Yost and the tribal leader decided that
   the dance would take place on grounds half way between the hospital and
   the airstrip where an air transport would be waiting on the runway with
   engines running. The girl could go ahead with the dance, but the minute
   she passed out, she was to be flown to Phoenix. The grandmother agreed
   to the compromise." "On an unusually warm September morning, the
   ambulance darted into a circle of about 1,000 people at the dance
   grounds, and the girl was rolled out on a stretcher. "I thought to
   myself, `She'll last four minutes,'" Yost says. Amazingly, the girl
   stayed conscious and was able to finish the first half of her dance.
   After a rest stop at the hospital, where she was given penicillin by
   Yost and prayed This powerful image captures a most sacred over by her
   grandmother, she returned to the dance grounds in the afternoon. event
   in this girl's life--the four-day coming- Once again, with IV and
   catheter dangling, the girl danced for a while and then of-age ceremony
   called the sunrise dance. went back to the hospital to rest before the
   evening portion of the ceremony- On the last day, a young man dips an
   eagle the most spectacular and important part. That night, with a
   bonfire blazing and feather and a spray of sage in a basket filled with
   clay and water. He covers the hundreds of people participating in
   ritual dress, the girl got up, pulled out her kneeling initiate with
   this earth paint, to give IVs and danced for two hours. She spent the
   night at the hospital and walked her the power of the earth, to keep
   her out the next morning feeling absolutely fine. "What was it? Our
   penicillin? The strong through a long life. With this clay, she
   ceremony?" Yost asks. "I see the grandmother every once in a while, and
   she also acquires the power of Changing Woman, the first Apache--a holy
   person, just smiles.... "" indeed. This is a deeply spiritual moment.
   Text & photo copyright © by Stephen Trimble Page 2 Heritage & Health
   THE FIRST AMERICANS AND THEIR LANDS Before Europeans arrived in North
   America, more than 10 million original inhabitants-now known as
   American Indians and Alaska Natives-once lived and flourished
   throughout what is now the United States. Indian lands included a vast
   stretch of forest, plains, and mountains extending from the Atlantic to
   the Pacific Ocean and from the Artic Circle to the tip of South
   America. Exposure to disease, ecological changes, dislocation from
   native habitat, and warfare took a devastating toll on the Indian
   population. Despite all odds, American Indians and Alaska Natives have
   survived. By 1900, millions of Indian people were reduced to only
   237,000 as counted in the Census. In contrast to the first half of the
   20th century, the American Indian population grew rapidly after 1950.
   This period corresponds to the ending of government sponsored
   assimilation and relocation policies, reasserted tribal governments,
   rising pride in native culture and traditions, provision of safe water
   and sewer facilities on remote reservations, and expanded access to
   primary health care services. Today, there are 2.5 million American
   Indians and Alaska Natives. Of these, approximately 1.4 million depend
   on IHS and tribal programs as their primary source of health care
   services. The median age of American Indians is 27.8 years,
   considerably younger than the U.S. median age of 36 years. The American
   Indian and Alaska Native resident population has grown more rapidly
   than the nation's population as a whole during the last decade, 17.9
   percent versus 10.7 percent Education levels and poverty strongly
   affect health status. More than 600,000 American Indians and Alaska
   Natives (26%) are living below the poverty level. They had a median
   household income of $30,784, based on a three-year average (1997-
   1999). Fifty percent of American Indian families maintained by females
   with no husband present were in poverty. More than one-third of Indians
   over the age of 25 that reside in reservation areas have not graduated
   from high school. Today there are 558 federally recognized tribes and
   Alaska Native villages. Each American Indian and Alaska Native
   Population: has a unique history and aboriginal 1900 to 2000 2500
   territory. The diversity of tribal cultures, traditions, and languages
   is enormous. 2000 The long and proud heritage of tribes continues in
   many traditional foods, 1500 medicines, and names all Americans use. In
   remaining Indian lands, many Indians 1000 still hunt, fish, and gather
   from the land, rivers and seas much as they have for Population in
   Thousands 500 thousands of years. Today, Indian people still maintain
   tribal traditions and 0 languages while striving to adapt new 1900 1910
   1920 1930 1940 1950 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 technologies to address
   their needs. Heritage & Health Page 3 This collage of images captures
   something of the diversity of locations and environments where Indians
   and Alaska Natives live. HONORING TREATIES The U.S. government has been
   providing health services to Native Americans since the early 1800s
   when Army physicians began treating smallpox and other contagious
   diseases of tribes living near military posts. In the 1830s, the
   government began Tribal leaders say that it is promising medical
   services as partial payment for rights and property important to
   understand that ceded to the United States. It is on the basis of these
   promises and today's federal health treaties that the Congress, in the
   1921 Snyder Act, authorized regular, continuing programs for Indians
   are not appropriations of funds for Indian health care and created a
   health division within just a matter of policy, but of the Bureau of
   Indian Affairs. In 1954, Congress renamed the BIA's health obligations
   under treaties the division the Indian Health Service and moved it to
   what is now the Department of government signed with tribes in Health
   and Human Services. Today, the Indian health care system is a complex
   the 19th century. operation serving 1.5 million Indians of 558 tribes
   in 35 states. HEALTH CARE WITH UNIQUE CHARACTER If people give much
   thought to the Indian health care system, most would probably lump it
   with rural medicine. And indeed, the American Indian health care system
   is akin to rural medicine-but some intriguing attributes give it
   qualities and flair all its own. Budget contraints, a structure that
   promotes teamwork among doctors and other health care staff, an
   unwavering commitment to community-based primary care, geographic as
   well as cultural isolation, the interaction of traditional Indian
   health practices and beliefs, and the tragic nature of diseases
   suffered by Indians have shaped the face of the Indian health care
   system from the beginning. Page 4 Heritage & Health The typical
   discourse on American health care is framed by debates over managed
   care restrictions, patient's rights, coverage for the uninsured,
   skyrocking costs of new technology and drugs, and fierce competition
   and rivalries in the market place. While the Indian health care system
   is not immune to these pressures, the fundamental character of the
   system is shaped by a focus on the welfare of American Indian and
   Alaska Native communities rather than on the financial bottom line.
   This big picture focus is clearly illustrated by a mission statement
   that is framed in terms of health rather than economics. The mission of
   the Indian Health Service, in partnership with American Indians and
   Alaska Natives, is to raise their physical, mental, social, and
   spiritual health to the highest possible level. Mission- Improve Health
   The special character of the Indian health system arises from a
   combination of its unique constituents, the aboriginal inhabitants of
   America, the historic obligation of the U.S. Government to tribes based
   on treaties, and a big picture approach shaped by Indian values of
   family, clan, community, tribe and harmony with the environment. In
   addition, the program is unique in its team oriented focus on
   community-based primary care and recognition of economic development,
   housing, and education as important factors in improving the health of
   Indian people. In a population crippled by such diseases as alcoholism
   and diabetes, and unintentional injuries, grass-roots prevention in
   local Indian communities becomes the quiet lifesaver. CHANGING DISEASES
   AND TROUBLING DISPARITIES The health status of Indian people has
   improved steadily since 1955. The improvement was mainly due to
   increased access to health services and public health measures which
   decreased morbidity and mortality from infectious disease.
   Unfortunately, health gains among Indians have slowed or ceased
   altogether in recent years as disease patterns have changed. Injuries,
   chronic diseases, and behavioral related diseases have emerged as new
   challenges. The new diseases patterns are associated with consequences
   from Disproportionately high mortality rates poverty and cultural
   dislocation. Inadequate education, high rates of among Indians and a
   large gap in health unemployment, and discrimination all contribute to
   unhealthy care resources are unacceptable to tribal lifestyles and
   disparities in access to health care. Illness and death leaders --
   especially in view of the rate disparities for American Indians and
   Alaska Natives have national goal to eliminate racial emerged for
   alcoholism, diabetes, disparities and the unique obligations to
   tuberculosis, heart disease, the first Americans. Tribal leaders cite
   unintentional injury, homicide, diabetes, unintentional injuries, and
   suicide, pneumonia, influenza and alcoholism and substance abuse as
   rising to crisis proportions in Indian communities. disabilities. They
   say Indian health resources are completely inadequate to deal with the
   In view of the health disparities, enormous needs-a claim consistent
   with the national goal to eliminate racial a recent actuarial study
   that found IHS and ethnic disparities in health is funding for personal
   medical services at especially important to Indian 60 percent compared
   to mainstream people. IHS is assisting tribes to health plans such as
   the Federal develop local approaches to their Employees Health Benefit
   Plan. health issues. Addressing today's health problems cannot be
   expected to yield quick results. The most serious health problems are
   long-term, intractable issues that will be greatly affected by
   social-economic conditions in Indian communities and the limited
   resources available to the Indian health system. The Indian health care
   system continues to face formidable challenges in the decade ahead.
   Despite the collaborative relationships and partnerships that have been
   Heritage & Health Page 5 established, current resources will not meet
   the needs of a population that is increasing by 2% each year and facing
   emerging health problems. Prevention and treatment of chronic health
   problems requires long-term interventions that may not show measurable
   results for several years. Current funding of IHS is approximately $2.6
   billion. For Indian people receiving Indian health system services this
   translates to health care funding at approximately 60% of the level
   enjoyed by people in mainstream health plans. Tribal leaders are
   concerned about the health care funding deficiencies and have estimated
   a need of $7 billion for services and additional $7 billion to upgrade
   Indian health care facilities and infrastructure. UNIVERSAL
   ELIGIBILITY-LIMITED AVAILABILITY The Indian health care system is
   intended to provide comprehensive health care services to all members
   of federally recognized tribes who need them, but the extent of
   resources and services varies place to place. Eligible Indians may
   receive preventive, primary medical (hospital and ambulatory care), and
   rehabilative services. Secondary medical care, highly specialized
   medical services and rehabilative care services is provided by network
   staff or under contract. In addition, dental services, nutrition
   services, community health, sanitation facilities (water supply and
   waste disposal), injury prevention, and institutional environmental
   services Because of limited funding, some tribes are provided. have
   sought to limit provision of health care services only to enrolled
   members of their tribe. Tribes emphasize that However, the benefits are
   not guaranteed this is a sovereignty issue as they have entitlements,
   such as under Medicare and Medicaid the right to choose who they serve.
   It programs, nor are Indian individuals assured is also a funding issue
   because the medically necessary services as in health insurance annual
   budget allocations are not tied plans. Theoretically, all members of
   federally to tribal membership. Long standing recognized tribes are
   eligible for government funded regulations require programs to serve
   health care, but Indian leaders often describe the members of federally
   recognized care that Indians get as "universal, but rationed" tribes
   without regard to specific tribal because life-threatening situations
   get first priority, and if money is membership. exhausted before the
   end of the year, patients with lesser problems find their medical care
   postponed or simply never carried out. COMPREHENSIVE APPROACH IN 35
   STATES The Indian health system is the primary source of health
   services for 55% of the estimated 2.4 million Indian people identified
   in the U.S. Census. The majority of Indian people served live on or
   near reservations in some of the most remote and poverty stricken areas
   of the country where other sources of health care are less available.
   For many, the IHS is the only source of care. Urban Indian health
   programs provide limited services to more than 150,000 Indians living
   in 34 cities. The IHS is organized as 12 "area offices" which are
   located throughout the United States. Within these 12 regions are 550
   health care delivery facilities, including 49 hospitals, 214 health
   centers, and 280 health stations, satellite clinics, and Alaska village
   clinics operated by the IHS and IHS is organized as 12 Areas operating
   over 500 facilities located in 35 States Page 6 Heritage & Health
   tribes. The agency's 15,000 employees include 921 physicians, 303
   dentists, 2,729 nurses, 411 pharmacists, 347 engineers, and 155
   sanitarians. Another unique characteristic of the IHS is the
   responsibility to provide water supply and waste disposal-forms of
   municipal infrastructure that are virtually non-existent in remote
   areas of Indian country. The partnership of tribes and IHS has supplied
   clean water and waste disposal to more than 230,000 (92%) Indian homes.
   It is a remarkable disease prevention success story that the death rate
   from gastrointestinal disease among Indians has declined by 91% as a
   result of installing basic sanitation facilities and improved access to
   primary health care. However, Community Water Supply Project over
   20,000 (7.5%) Indian homes still lack safe water in the home. Improving
   access has also meant constructing health care facilities on remote
   reservations. Many Indian communities are located in isolated areas
   where inhospitable climate, impassable roads, and populations spread
   over many miles create major challenges. Often, IHS is the only source
   of health care. While some Indian communities have modern IHS hospitals
   and ambulatory facilities, the average age of IHS facilities is 32
   years, with some older than 60 years. Over one-third need replacement
   to increase clinic space and many need substantial modernization. It is
   difficult to properly support current medical practices in older
   facilities that were built before the modern emphasis on ambulatory
   care. Rosebud Health Facility in the Great Plains of South Dakota
   SOVEREIGN NATIONS AND SELF-DETERMINATION Sovereignty gives tribes a
   self-governing status. Self-determination and self-governance have
   important meaning to tribes and affect how their health services are
   delivered. Public Law 93-638, the Indian Self-Determination and
   Education Assistance Act provides that tribes can redesign their health
   programs if they choose to compact and/or contract. IHS transfers
   resources to tribes so that they can manage their own health programs
   if they decide to do so. Almost 44 percent of the Agency's $2.6 billion
   budget is transferred to tribes. The following excerpt from the keynote
   address to the 1999 National Indian Health Board Consumer Conference by
   the Director, IHS movingly illustrates the progress and pride that
   tribes have achieved with their health care systems. "Yesterday, I had
   a chance to attend several tribal meetings. I was greatly moved sitting
   in a meeting with the Native corporations of Alaska. They presented a
   video of what they are doing with their health care programs and the
   Alaska Native Medical Center, which was transferred from the Indian
   Health Service to the Native corporations just about a year ago. Who
   would have thought 50 years Alaska Native Medical Center, Anchorage
   Alaska Heritage & Health Page 7 ago, when there were no Alaska Native
   corporations, that the Alaska Natives would now be managing and
   administering a health care system and delivering health care to their
   own people? Who would have dreamed that 100 years ago? Just 150 years
   ago, some of our people were still prisoners of the Federal Government.
   Many tribes that existed then no longer exist. They are gone. Their
   language is gone, their culture is gone, and their people are gone. So
   I was sitting there yesterday, realizing how close we came to having
   nothing, and I was deeply moved to see the tremendous example of
   achievement and survival by the Alaska people. What Alaska Natives have
   done is an example of what you can do. It is an example of what the
   future can be for American Indian and Alaska Native people nationwide.
   You and others have so much to contribute, and I believe that you will
   continue to do that." LEARN MORE FROM 1-PAGE ISSUE SUMMARIES The People
   Resources * Indian Population * Budget Planning with Tribes * Indian
   Elders * Contract Health Services * Indian Women's Health * Contract
   Support Costs * Indians in Urban Areas * Funding Disparities Treaties &
   Law Quality & Accountability * Federal Basis for Health Services *
   Partnering with HCFA * Tribal Self-Determination * Collaboration with
   other Agencies * Indian Health Care Improvement Act * Collaboration
   with States * Tribal Consultation and Participation * Accreditation
   Achievements * Eligibility * Administration and Management Health
   Disparities Infrastructure * Health Disparities Trends * Health
   Facilities * Domestic Violence * Safe Water and Waste Disposal
   Facilities * Injuries * Information Technology * Diabetes * Workforce *
   Mental Health * Staffing Trends * Alcoholism and Substance Abuse * 2001
   IHS Profile * Heart Disease and Strokes * And Other Issues Hepatitis *
   * The INFO.IHS.GOV web site contains the Cancer most recent information
   on these and other * Oral Health issues that may arise. H T T P : / / I
   N F O . I H S . G O V Additional Information: For referral to the
   appropriate spokesperson, contact the IHS Public Affairs Staff at
   301-443-3593. Acknowledgements: Portions of this report are taken from:
   "When Worlds Collide", THE NEW PHYSICIAN/November 1997; WE THE FIRST
   AMERICANS, Bureau of the Census/September 1993; and "Of Treaties &
   Treatment" , GOVERNMENT EXECUTIVE/December 1994. Page 8 Heritage &
   Health
