http://clear.search.gov/notes/2000-07-21.txt

   Clearinghouse Partnership Meeting Notes July 21, 2000 The Council on
   Excellence in Government, Washington D.C. Notes submitted by Marcia
   Christian (Lists of participants and handouts follows these notes) On
   behalf of the Council on Excellence in Government, Brett Gerstein
   welcomed participants to this meeting of the U.S. Federal Government
   Information Clearinghouse Partnership. The meeting began with a
   technical presentation by Jim Restivo, President of Blue Angel
   Technologies. Jim gave an overview of metadata solutions to the problem
   of locating information on the Internet. He said that metadata
   standards provide a framework whereby software can share information
   from/to numerous applications or organizations. Users can retain their
   capacity for full-text searching and also get quality search results if
   there are clearly defined metadata elements used for describing on-line
   resources. Jim listed five aspects of search that must be coordinated
   in order to have machines most effectively communicate with each other:
   1) metadata schemas, 2) communications protocol (for both
   search/retrieval and writing), 3) search points, 4) send/retrieval
   syntax and 5) applications/tools that put all these together. Jim used
   North Carolina as an example where interoperable systems have been
   built on common metadata schemas. North Carolina's state, county and
   local web sites are required by law to include embedded GILS metadata.
   This makes them interoperable for searches from any level. It also
   makes them interoperable with the state's criminal justice department,
   library systems and geospatial references. Jim invited participants to
   review demonstrations of North Carolina and other standards-based
   systems at /www.blueangeltech.com>. Tom Freebairn (GSA) reported on the
   FirstGov project, formerly known as WebGov. Oversight of the project is
   being provided by the President's Management Council, which includes
   Deputy Secretaries from various agencies. Tom reiterated that this
   portal project will implement and showcase the policies and standards
   agreed upon by the Clearinghouse Partnership. He said that FirstGov is
   expected to be one of many portals making Government information
   available to the private sector, the general public and Federal
   agencies. Tom said that FirstGov has 3 parts: 1) a full-text search
   service for Federal Web pages, 2) a portal providing access to the
   full-text search and other services, and 3) a program to identify
   FirstGov "certified partners". The full-text search service that will
   spider all Federal Websites is a donation by Eric Brewer through a
   non-profit organization called FedSearch being established to operate
   the service initially. Tom expects to have the FirstGov portal contract
   awarded by August 11, 2000 to meet a launch date target of
   mid-September. He showed a preliminary mock-up but emphasized that the
   site will be improved in incremental steps. He also said the portal
   will be "non-sticky". A handout was provided with current ideas about
   conditions that will be required to earn the designation of a FirstGov
   "certified partner" (integrity, free access, privacy, no advertising,
   positioning, attribution and accessible). FirstGov certified partners
   will provide a variety of ways to access Federal information. Tom
   invited comments on the design but stressed that they should be sent to
   him very quickly. Further information on the project is available at
   /www.FirstGov.gov>. There were several reactions from meeting
   participants. One questioned the portal mock-up showing the U.S.
   Federal structure (agencies within executive, legislative and judicial
   branches) as a way of organize information resources. Tom acknowledged
   that this structure will be helpful to some but certainly not all
   users. Another question concerned the mixing of dynamic press releases
   together with much more static information resources. Tom responded
   that the portal may link to press releases. There was a suggestion to
   make use of the Government blue pages in connection with the request
   for comments feature intended to operate across all agencies. There was
   also a question concerning coordination with Congress input on the
   project. Tom responded that he had briefed GAO but that links to
   Congress need to be strengthened. Eliot Christian (U.S. Geological
   Survey) spoke about the proposal for a Team to address the general need
   for a listing of Federal website URL's. He noted that one cannot simply
   assume that all *.gov domains designate websites with U.S. Federal
   Government information. For example, the "sacramento.gov" domain
   belongs to Sacramento, California. There are also many Government
   information resources outside of the *.gov domains. Decisions of the
   Judicial Branch are often maintained by law libraries at universities
   and so appear under *.edu domains. Other complications exist in domains
   where commercial and Federal organizations are intermingled, where
   Federal sites are designated as *.net, etc. The goal of the Websites
   locator team will be to recommend the process by which the U.S. Federal
   Government can develop and maintain a list of the Web site URL's
   working down from the top agencies. The list would include all agencies
   listed in the U.S. Government Manual, although not necessarily listing
   all subordinate agency sites exhaustively. It is expected that GSA will
   lead this team in order to co-ordinate with the FirstGov project. The
   next step is to draft a Team charter and post it for discussion of the
   Clear-L list. Owen Ambur (U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service) chairs a
   committee on XML under the Chief Information Officers Council (CIOC).
   He reports that he has reserved the "xml.gov" domain name and the
   Website will probably by hosted by National Institute for Science and
   Technology. Owen noted that there is no funding yet for this project
   and it is unclear how a Clearinghouse Team on XML would link with the
   CIOC XML Working Group meeting. He asked that Clearinghouse
   participants post on the Clear-L list if they want to be involved in
   this Team. Bill Miller (U.S. Geological Survey) has volunteered to lead
   a Team focused on Privacy and Security issues. The next step will be to
   post a draft Team charter to the Clear-L discussion list. Gail Feldman
   (The Internet Archive) led the discussion concerning the formation of a
   Team focused on archiving issues. She noted that she is primarily
   interested in archiving Internet documents. Dick Griffin suggested that
   she also connect with the Federal Information and Records Managers
   Council /firm.hq.navy.mil/>, via John Vasko. John Shuler (University of
   Illinois - Chicago) presented a draft document based on his
   collaboration with Steve Maradian (Middle Georgia College). The
   document suggests a core outline for a college degree program in
   Information Architecture. The authors regard it as a starting point for
   dialogue, with contributions hopefully coming from industry as well as
   academia. He noted that an exact definition of "information architect"
   is a point that will be addressed as the group continues. Toni Carbo
   (University of Pittsburgh, School of Information Science) said that a
   survey of "who's doing what now" in the field of academic accreditation
   would be of interest. Woody Horton (National Commission on Libraries
   and Information Science) addressed the upcoming "Assessment of Public
   Information Dissemination". He reported that this study of general
   policy principles is due to be issued on December 15, 2000. It will
   include advice on the topics of business models, single focus points
   for agencies' on-line publishing, agencies' external on-line needs, and
   effective definitions for public/private partnerships. Woody emphasized
   that successful projects ultimately will depend on policy issues
   surrounding access to Government information, not just technical
   issues. Some of his major concerns include: records access, records
   retention (both "official records" and "non-official records" that
   still need to be kept), authentication on-line, security and privacy,
   ownership of records, and long-term preservation. Woody has long been
   responsible for reporting to the President and Congress on policy
   issues, such as the recent debates about the future of the National
   Technical Information Service. George Molaski (Department of
   Transportation) explained his role as co-chair of the E-Government
   committee within the CIOC. As an "enabler" of E-Government, George
   cited the success of the docket system within his agency, and also the
   President's signing of the electronic signature bill using a smart
   card. He mentioned that CIOC goals include getting funding across
   "stovepipe" agencies, and providing education for the program employees
   who will provide E-Government services. Woody Horton suggested it would
   be a good idea to make a record of policy issues addressed and amended
   by the CIOC. Morley Winograd (National Partnership for Re-inventing
   Government) congratulated the participants for their work in the
   Clearinghouse Partnership. He said that he sees positive movement
   toward Vice President Gore's vision of an "interactive town-square".
   Morley stated that he is proud to announce that NPR is responsible for
   the availability of purchasing children's health insurance from any
   state over the internet, as of July 24, 2000. Other accomplishments
   expected this year include: 500 most popular Government forms available
   on-line, an electronic complaint/response system for citizens, an
   on-line Federal procurement process, and "workers.gov" site which will
   include a variety of information for citizens. He noted that the
   National Partnership for Re-inventing Government is an Al Gore
   initiative based solely on Memorandums of Understanding and so will not
   continue into the next Administration. He did say that the
   Congressional mandate to have citizen services on-line by 2003 will
   continue and various projects will be "institutionalized" by the end of
   the year. The meeting concluded at noon. Meeting Participants Blue
   Angel Technologies Jim Restivo Council on Excellence in Government
   Brett Gerstein Defense Technical Information Center Kurt Molholm
   Department of Energy Vince Dattoria Department of Transportation, CIO
   Council George Molaski Environmental Protection Agency Seema Kapoor
   Executive Office of the President, Office of Management and Budget Tony
   Frater General Services Administration Tom Freebairn Jan Wendler*
   Georgia Technical Carol Hughes* Global Information Locator Service
   Eliot Christian Government Printing Office TC Evans Steve Kerchoff
   Institute for Museum and Library Sciences Barbara Smith Illinois State
   Library Anne Craig* Internet Archive Gail Feldman* Middle Georgia
   College Steve Maradian National Commission on Libraries and Information
   Sciences Woody Horton National Partnership for Reinventing Government
   Ron Collison Anna Doroshaw Dick Griffin Morley Winograd National
   Technical Information Service Tom Bold Radian Inc. Steve Buckley U.S.
   Fish & Wildlife Owen Ambur U.S. Geological Survey Barbara Ryan
   University of Illinois - Chiacgo John Shuler University of Pittsburgh,
   School of Information Science Toni Carbo * participants who attended
   via conference call There were two handouts available at the meeting:
   1) an Education Team concept paper outlining a Degree Program for
   Information Architect, and 2) "FirstGov - What it is and How it Works"
