http://www.optometry.ca.gov/documents/2001newsletter.pdf

   Spring 2001 The View The View The View The View The View CALIFORNIA BO
   CALIFORNIA BO CALIFORNIA BO CALIFORNIA BO CALIFORNIA BO ARD OF OPT ARD
   OF OPT ARD OF OPT ARD OF OPT ARD OF OPTOMETR OMETR OMETR OMETR OMETRY
   YY Y Y BOARD MEMBERS New Board Officers Elected Gerald J. Easton, O.D.
   President At the December 2000 meeting the Board Sheilah S. Titus, O.D.
   elected new officers for 2001. Vice President Steven S. Grant, O.D. Dr.
   Gerald Easton was re-elected as Secretary President. Dr. Easton was
   originally ap- Sunil "Sunny" Aghi, M.B.A. pointed to the Board in
   August, 1994 and Public Member is a practicing optometrist in Coronado.
   John R. Anthony, O.D. From 1985-86, Dr. Easton served as Presi-
   Patricia L. Gee, Ed.D dent of the American Optometric Associa- Public
   Member tion. In 1974 he served as the California Jennifer H.W. Kao,
   O.D. Optometric Association President. Dr. Easton has served on the
   Coronado School Jane R. Vogel, M.A. and Hospital Boards for two years.
   A gradu- Public Member ate of Los Angeles College of Optometry (now
   SCCO), Dr. Easton has been licensed On June 1, 2000 Dr. Robert Dager's
   term ap- in California since 1954. pointment expired. Dr. Dager had
   served on the Board since February,1994. We thank Dr. The Board
   re-elected Dr. Sheilah Titus Dager for his outstanding service to the
   Board as Vice President. Dr. Titus was originally and to the people of
   the State of California. appointed to the Board in August, 1994 and is
   a practicing optometrist in El Dorado Hills. BOARD GOES ONLINE She is a
   graduate of the Southern Califor- nia College of Optometry and has been
   li- @ www.optometry.ca.gov censed in California since 1983. In 1998 the
   Board unveiled its Internet Web The Secretary of the Board, Dr. Steven
   site. The site provides useful information for Grant was orginally
   appointed to the Board both consumers and optometrists. Included in
   June of 1994 and is a practicing optom- are the Board's mission, values
   and beliefs; etrist in Costa Mesa. frequently asked questions about
   optometry; information about recent legislative and regu- latory
   changes; a downloadable version of California laws governing the
   practice of op- tometry; downloadable Board applications and forms; and
   recent disciplinary actions by the Board. Web site visitors can also
   ac- cess a user-friendly database containing li- InThis Issue censing
   and enforcement information on all California optometrists. Regulations
   Page 2 Legislation Page 3 Notice to Consumers Page 5 Enforcement Page 6
   FYI Page 8 Spring 2001 Newsletter Page 2 Regulations The Board may
   issue a citation and fine of no less than $1001 and no more than $2500
   for violations of In response to consumer concerns regarding the the
   following sections: board's visibility to the general public, the Board
   adopted Section 1566.1 of Title 16 of the California B&P CCR Summary
   Description Code of Regulations. This adoption requires inclu- 650 Fee
   for Referral sion of the Board's address and telephone number in 651
   1512 False/Misleading Advertising the "Notice to Consumers" currently
   posted by all op- 655 Prohibited Relationships tometrists. A copy of
   the new required notice is in- 3090 Unprofessional Conduct cluded in
   this newsletter. Licensed optometrists must 3096 Solicitation replace
   the existing notice with the new one provided. 3102 Employment of
   Suspended/ Unlicensed Optometrist The Board adopted Sections 1576-1581,
   which es- 3103 1514 Accepting Unlawful Employment tablishes a system
   for the issuance of citations and 3104 1515 Improper Advertising fines
   for violations of the laws and regulations gov- 3127 Practice Without
   Certificate erning the practice of optometry. Previously, the Board
   3128 Holding Self Out as an Optometrist had authorization to issue
   citations and fines under Without Valid Certificate Business and
   Professions Code Section 3135. That section was repealed by the
   legislature at the Board's request. Now the Board exercises its
   authority under Recent Regulations Changes Section 129.5. This
   establishes by regulation, proce- dures covering a broader range of
   violations. The Board may now issue citations and fines as follows:
   Effective April 25, 2001, Repeal Section 1533.1. Eliminates the board's
   license examination The Board may issue a citation and fine of no less
   appeal process. than $50 and no more than $500 for violations of the
   following sections: Effective April 06, 2001, Repeal Section 1560.
   Removes the limitations on the drug catego- B&P CCR Summary Description
   ries for diagnostic drugs and allow the use of all topi- 3070 1505
   Failure to Notify of Address cal diagnostic pharmaceutical agents
   identified in 3075 1506 Display of Certificate Business and Professions
   Code Section 3041 (a)(5) 3076 Temporary Practice for the purpose of
   examining the human eye or eyes. 3098 Misuse of Title or Letters
   Section 3041(a) (5) of the Business and Professions 3100 Employment of
   Cappers/ Steerers Code superseded Section 1560. 3125 1513 False/Assumed
   Name 1518 Effective April 25, 2001, Amend Section 1546 1575.
   Incorporates the current version of the board's 3162 1549 Corp
   Reports/Renewals Disciplinary Guidelines and Model Disciplinary Orders,
   1565 Prescription Standards DG-3, 5-99, which were amended by the Board
   ef- 1566 Notice to Consumers fective May 1999 thereby bringing the
   Board into com- pliance with Chapter 938, Statutes of 1995. The Board
   may issue a citation and fine of no less than $501 and no more than
   $1000 for violations of the following sections: The Board is
   considering future regulation proposals which would permit optometrists
   to fulfill part of their B&P CCR Summary Description continuing
   education requirements with courses of- 3077 1507 Branch Offices fered
   over the internet; update continuing education 1550 requirements to
   conform with the board's biennial 3129 Advertising Services Without
   Cost renewal cycle; update the definitions and provisions 3165 1548
   Shares Transfer & Ownership constituting professional inefficiency; and
   incorporate current ophthalmic device standards of the American
   National Standards Institute. Spring 2001 Newsletter Page 3 Legislation
   SB 929, signed by Governor Davis in September 2000, d) Nonprescription
   medication used for the rational expanded the scope of practice for TPA
   Certified Cali- treatment of an ocular disorder; fornia optometrists.
   The new law does the following: e) Oral antihistamines, subject to
   requirements relat- ing to referral to an ophthalmologist; 1) Revises
   the definition of the practice of optometry f) Prescription oral
   nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory to include prevention and diagnosis of
   disorders and agents, limited to three days use; dysfunctions of the
   visual system, treatment and man- g) Specified oral antibiotics for
   medical treatment of agement of certain disorders and dysfunctions of
   the infections of the anterior segment and adnexa, subject visual
   system, the provision of rehabilitative optometric to disease-specific
   requirements as to when the op- services. tometrist is required to
   consult with, or refer patients to, an ophthalmologist; 2) Revises and
   expands the list of conditions that an h) Topical antiviral medical and
   oral acyclovir for the optometrist who is certified to use therapeutic
   pharma- treatment of specified conditions, and subject to oph- ceutical
   agents (TPA) is permitted to diagnose and ex- thalmologist consultation
   and referral requirements; clusively treat, to include the following:
   i) Oral analgesics that are not controlled substances; a) Medical
   treatment of infections of the anterior seg- and ment and adnexa,
   excluding the lacrimal gland, the lac- j) Codeine with compounds and
   hydrocodone with rimal drainage system and the sclera. Specifies that
   this compounds listed in the California Uniform Controlled does not
   authorize any optometrist to treat a person Substances Act, limited to
   three days use, with a refer- with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome
   for ocular ral to an ophthalmologist if the pain persists. infections;
   b) Ocular allergies of the anterior segment and ad- 4) Requires, when
   optometrists are required to con- nexa; sult with an ophthalmologist,
   that the optometrist main- c) Ocular inflammation, nonsurgical in
   cause, lim- tain a written record in the patient's file of the informa-
   ited to inflammation resulting from traumatic iritis, pe- tion provided
   to the ophthalmologist, and the ripheral corneal inflammatory
   keratitis, episcleritis, and ophthalmologist's response, and requires
   the optom- unilateral nonrecurrent nongranulomatous ideopathic etrist
   to furnish a copy of the record to the consulting iritis in patients
   over the age of 18. Requires unilateral ophthalmologist upon request.
   nongranulomatous idiopathic iritis recurring within one year of the
   initial occurrence to be referred to an oph- 5) Permits TPA-certified
   optometrists to order a com- thalmologist, and requires optometrists to
   consult with plete blood count, mycobacterial culture, acid fast stain,
   an ophthalmologist with recurrent cases of episcleritis and urinalysis,
   to perform punctal occlusion by plugs, and keratitis; excluding any
   means constituting surgery, as defined. d) Ocular pain, not related to
   surgery, associated with conditions optometrists are authorized to
   treat; and 6) Expands the ability of optometrists to remove for- e)
   Primary open angle glaucoma in patients over the eign bodies from the
   cornea, provided the corneal for- age of 18, if the optometrist is
   certified for this treat- eign bodies are nonperforating, no deeper
   than the ment, as provided for in this bill. anterior stroma, and
   require no surgical repair upon re- f) Corneal surface disease and dry
   eyes. moval. 3) Revises and expands the list of therapeutic phar-
   maceutical agents that TPA-certified optometrists may 7) Requires the
   Board of Optometry to certify optom- use in diagnosing and treating
   conditions, by permitting etrists to perform lacrimal irrigation and
   dilation of pa- the following medications: tients over the age of 12,
   excluding probing of the na- a) Topical steroid antiallergy agents,
   subject to re- sal lacrimal tract, after the optometrist has completed
   quirements specifying when the optometrist is required 10 of these
   procedures under the supervision of an oph- to consult with, or refer
   patients to, an ophthalmologist; thalmologist. b) Topical steroid
   anti-inflammatories, subject to dis- ease-specific requirements as to
   when the optometrist 8) Prohibits injections other than the use of an
   auto- is required to consult with, or refer patients to, an oph-
   injector to counter anaphylaxis. thalmologist; c) Topical antiglaucoma
   agents, if the optometrist is 9) Requires the Board to certify those
   optometrists who certified to treat primary open angle glaucoma, as
   pro- are already TPA-certified, to treat primary open angle vided for
   in this bill, and subject to specified require- glaucoma in patients
   over the age of 18, if the optom- ments; etrist meets the following
   requirements: Spring 2001 Newsletter Page 4 SB 929 (Cont.) a)
   Satisfactory completion of a didactic course of at least 24 hours in
   the diagnosis, pharmacological The following bills were signed by the
   Governor last and other treatment and management of glaucoma, fall and
   became effective 1/01/01: with the curriculum developed by an
   accredited Cali- fornia school of optometry. Exempts applicants who AB
   1792 (Villaraigosa) Makes changes in the ap- graduated from an
   accredited California school of plication process for disabled
   placards, increases optometry on or after May 1, 2000; and the penalty
   for misuse of a placard, and requires b) After completion of the above
   didactic course, the DMV conduct an audit of placard applications.
   collaborative treatment of 50 glaucoma patients for The new law also
   requires the physician or other a period of two years for each patient,
   under speci- person, including optometrists, maintain information fied
   terms describing the collaborative requirements sufficient to
   substantiate the certificate and, upon between the optometrist and the
   ophthalmologist. request of the DMV, make that information avail- able
   for inspection by the Medical Board of Califor- 13) Requires that 35
   hours of the currently required nia. continuing education for TPA-
   certified optometrists be on the diagnosis, treatment and management of
   AB 2185 (Gallegos) Requires the Department of ocular disease and
   allocated as follows: 12 hours Health Services establish the Newborn
   Eye Pathol- on glaucoma, 10 hours on ocular infections, 5 hours ogy
   Screening Program, including the creation of on inflammation and
   topical steroids, 6 hours on an advisory task force and the adoption of
   a proto- systemic medications, and 2 hours on the use of col for
   detecting the presence of treatable causes pain medications. of
   blindness in infants by two months of age. 14) Includes optometrists in
   the list of providers able to prescribe controlled substances in the
   Cali- Last fall the Board sent a questionnaire to all Non- fornia
   Uniform Controlled Substances Act, when act- DPA certified California
   optometrists requesting their ing within the scope of specified
   provisions of law. input on a proposal to eliminate the non-DPA cat-
   egory of licensure. The questionnaire was sent to 15) Expands the scope
   of practice of assistants 498 licensees and the Board received
   responses working in the office of an optometrist or ophthal- from 66%
   of those surveyed. After consideration of mologist by permitting an
   assistant, under the di- the reponses and additional information, the
   Board rect supervision of an optometrist or ophthalmolo- decided to
   take no action at this time to eliminate gist, to perform certain tests
   and procedures, as the non-DPA category of license. specified. In the
   coming year the Board of Optometry will once 16) States it is the
   intent of the Legislature that the again undergo sunset review before
   the legislature. law governing the scope of practice of optometry As
   stated on its website: shall not be amended prior to January 1, 2009,
   and that no legislation to this effect be introduced prior The primary
   goal of the Joint Legislative Sun- to January 1, 2008. States the
   Legislature's intent; set Review Committee is to systematically ex-
   however, that parties who are interested in the scope amine and
   evaluate all consumer boards and of practice of optometrists commence
   negotiations specified programs under the Department of on any proposed
   changes to the law governing this Consumer Affairs, and assure they are
   carry- practice no later than January 1, 2007. ing out their primary
   mission: "To protect the public against incompetent, negligent, fraudu-
   For current information and applications related to lent, deceptive, or
   other unscrupulous or ille- the new law, please visit the board's web
   site at gal acts of licensed professionals or unlicensed
   www.optometry.ca.gov. persons posing as professionals, and provide for
   improved and effective service to the con- sumer and licensees." Spring
   2001 Newsletter Page 6 Board Enforcement Actions Notice of Citation and
   Assessment of Administrative Fines Alan Edward Limfat, O.D. - OPT 9620.
   Case Num- ber CC 1999 192. Dr. Limfat was issued a citation Effective
   September, 1999 the California State Board assessing administrative
   fines of $5,055 for advertis- of Optometry received authority to issue
   citations and ing violations, not having a registered name listed in
   fines. the advertisement. This is a violation of Sections 651(a),
   651(b) (1), 651(b)(5) and 651(e) of the Busi- The Board issued seven
   Notices of Citation and As- ness and Professions Code and 1513 of the
   Califor- sessment of Administrative Fines. The first Notice nia Code of
   Regulations. Assessed fines were paid of Citation and Assessment of
   Administrative Fine in full on May 19, 2000. was issued on September
   28, 1999. License Discipline The administrative fines assessed are for
   various vio- lations of the Business and Professions Codes and Since
   January 1, 2000, the Board took disciplinary ac- the California Code of
   Regulations. tion against the following licensees. Although every
   effort is made to ensure this information is correct, Since January 1,
   2000, the following citations be- before making a decision, you should
   contact the came final: Board office to assure accuracy and to request
   any additional information. Kenneth Masanori Fujimoto, O.D. - OPT 9407.
   Case number CC 1999 63. Dr. Fujimoto was is- Stephanie Nishamura Baba,
   O.D. sued a citation, assessing administrative fines of Effective
   February 11, 2001, Dr. Baba's Certificate of $1,752 for failure to
   notify the Board of Optometry of registration No. 6525 was revoked for
   unprofes- the address where he engaged or intends to engage, sional
   conduct, use of cappers and steerers, and in the practice of optometry
   and the use of an unau- obtaining fees by fraud and misrepresentation.
   thorized fictitious name which are violations of Sec- However,
   revocation was stayed and she was tions 3070 and 3125 of the Business
   and Professions placed on probation for 3 years with various terms
   Code. Assessed fines were paid in full on June 8, and conditions. 2000.
   John Christopher Kotulak, O.D. Bruce John Spera, O.D. - OPT 6357. Case
   Num- Effective May 7, 2000, Dr. Kotulak `s Certificate of ber CC 1999
   134. Dr. Spera was issued a citation Registration No. 6722 was revoked
   for convictions of assessing administrative fines of $1,201 for failure
   Penal Code Sections 289(h) and 647.6(a), crimes to notify the Board of
   Optometry of address where substantially related to the qualifications,
   functions and he engaged or intends to engage, in the practice of
   duties of an optometrist and unprofessional conduct. optometry. This is
   in violation of sections 3070 and However, revocation was stayed, Dr.
   Kotulak's Cer- 3075 of the Business and Professions Code and 1505
   tificate of Registration was suspended for 30 days and and 1506 of the
   California Code of Regulations. As- he was placed on probation for 7
   years with various sessed fines were paid in full on March 6, 2000.
   terms and conditions. Damon M. Lanier, O.D. Effective October 12, 2000,
   Dr. Lanier's Certificate of Registration No. 3532 was publicly reproved
   for unprofessional conduct and professional ineffi- ciency. Spring 2001
   Newsletter Page 7 License Disciplince Continued John Loc Le, O.D.
   Effective July 5, 2000, Dr. Le's Certificate of Regis- Herbert Michael
   Shack, O.D. tration No. 10115 was revoked for unprofessional Effective
   November 25, 2000, Dr. Shack's Certifi- conduct, operating an
   unlicensed branch office, will- cate of Registration No. 5459 was
   revoked for fully giving false information on an application to the
   unprofessional conduct, and not being in personal Board, practicing
   under a false or assumed name, attendance in his branch office 50
   percent of the not identifying himself in signs, cards, stationery or
   time that it had been open for the practice of op- other advertising,
   and not including the required mini- tometry. However, revocation was
   stayed. He was mal information on prescriptions or orders. How-
   suspended from the practice of optometry for 30 ever, revocation was
   stayed, he was placed on pro- days, Branch Office License No 1914 and
   Ficti- bation for 3 years with various terms and conditions. tious Name
   Permit No. 2578 were revoked. He was placed on probation for 3 years
   with various terms and conditions. Thuy L.T. Pham, O.D. Effective
   January 25, 2000, Dr. Pham `s Certificate Donald Zvanut, O.D. of
   Registration No. 10157 was revoked for unpro- Effective January 11,
   2001, Dr. Zvanut's Certifi- fessional conduct and failure to refer a
   patient when cate of Registration No. 8642 was revoked for un-
   examination indicated a substantial likelihood of pa- professional
   conduct, gross ignorance, profes- thology. However, revocation was
   stayed and she sional inefficiency, knowingly making or signing a was
   placed on probation for 3 years with various certificate or document
   that falsely represented the terms and conditions. existence or
   nonexistence of a state of facts, and altering or modifying the medical
   record, or creat- Kevin Michael Riggs, O.D. ing a false medical record
   with fraudulent intent. Effective May 7, 2000, Dr. Riggs' Certificate
   of Reg- However, revocation was stayed and he was istration No. 8012
   was revoked for unprofessional placed on probation for 5 years with
   various terms conduct, obtaining fees by fraud or misrepresenta- and
   conditions. tion, knowingly making or signing any certificate or other
   document that falsely represents the existence or nonexistence of a
   state of facts, and aiding and Surrender of License abetting the
   unlicensed practice of optometry. How- ever, revocation was stayed and
   he was placed on probation for 3 years with various terms and condi-
   Aristides Carcamo, O.D. tions. Effective May 7, 2000, Dr. Carcamo's
   Certificate of Reg- istration No. 8144 was surrendered pursuant to a
   stipu- Peggy Sampson, O.D. lated settlement of charges that Dr. Carcamo
   had vio- Effective January 11, 2001, Dr. Sampson's Certifi- lated
   previously imposed terms of probation. cate of Registration No. 8328
   was placed on proba- tion for 2 years with various terms and conditions
   for unprofessional conduct. Lincoln Andrus Service, O.D. For a copy of
   the Laws and Regulations Gov- Effective January 11, 2001, Dr. Service's
   Certificate erning the Practice of Optometry, please send of
   Registration No. 7573 was revoked, and his ap- a written request along
   with $10.00 to : plication for branch office license denied, for unpro-
   fessional conduct and submitting false information Calfornia State
   Board of Optometry to the Board in an application for abranch office
   li- 400 R Street, Suite 4090 cense. However, revocation was stayed and
   he was Sacramento, CA 95814 placed on probation for 3 years with
   various terms and conditions. or you may download a copy from the
   board's web site: www.optometry.ca.gov Spring 2001 Newsletter Page 8
   Overview of Overview Overview Overview Overview Board of of of of
   Activities Board Activities Board Activities Board Activities Board
   Activities Congratulations to Mrs. Jane Vogel! If you've ever wondered
   what goes on at the Board Member, Jane Vogel was honored by Board
   office, the following overview of the past KCET, public television for
   Southern and Central fiscal year might interest you. California as a
   winner of the Her Story is Our Story: Celebrating the Women of Our
   Commu- License Applications Received 355 nity awards in commemoration
   of the Women's Licenses Issued 233 History Month in March 2001.
   Licenses Renewed 3,116 Permit Applications Received 1,301 Permits
   Issued 1,257 Permits Renewed 1,407 CE Audits Conducted 1,010 We've
   Moved . . . . . . Have You? Complaints Received 273 Complaints Closed
   254 Last fall the Board office relocated. Our new Warning Letters
   Issued 111 address is: 400 R St., Suite 4090 Sacramento, Investigations
   Opened 79 CA 95814. If you are moving you must notify Investigations
   Closed 61 the Board in writing of your new address. Forms Accusations
   Filed 10 and applications for Board notification can be Discipline
   Imposed 6 obtained at the board's website. The American Optometric
   Association has Optometry Board meetings are added significant eye care
   information listed un- open to the public. der "Consumer Guides" to its
   web site: All Optometry Board meetings are open to the pub-
   www.aoanet.org lic. The Board holds four regularly scheduled meetings
   each year. The meetings are held in the Sacramento, Los Angeles, San
   Francisco and San Diego areas. Notice of meeting dates and locations
   are posted on the board's web site. Spring 2001 Newsletter Page 9
   California is facing a major energy challenge. We can all help reduce
   consumption and * Seal off unused or storage areas from improve energy
   efficiency. While Califor- cooling. nia continues to experience
   electrical shortages and rolling blackouts, Governor * Turn off all
   non-essential lights and equip- Davis and leaders of the California
   Legis- ment. When you're not using it, turn it off. lature are working
   with utilities, energy Unplug equipment not in regular use, such
   generators, and consumer groups to forge as VCRs and phone chargers.
   Putting a long-term solution to this problem. In the computers in
   "sleep" mode can save up short run, California's consumers and to 40
   percent in energy consumption. businesses can work to reduce
   electricity usage and use energy more efficiently. * Buy Energy Star
   appliances, products, and lights, which are more energy efficient In
   the Board of Optometry, and in all State than older models. of
   California agencies, we've implemented a plan to reduce consumption by
   a mini- Kids also can save energy through their mum of 8 percent.
   During critical power schools by turning off lights, computers, and
   shortages, State agencies will conserve 20 other electrical equipment
   during recess and percent. The Governor also has asked all after
   school. Tell your kids: "Save a little, save Californians to reduce
   their electricity use a watt." by at least 8 percent. Taken together,
   each of these small steps add California has the power of nearly 35
   mil- up. Whether at work or at home, we can make lion people and the
   sixth largest economy a dramatic difference in the energy crunch. in
   the world. By implementing a few simple energy-saving measures, we can
   avoid shortages, lower energy bills, and have a major impact on the
   availability of power. We're asking you to flex your power. Each of us
   has an important role to play right now. * Reduce usage during peak
   demand hours-5 a.m. to 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. * Close curtains to
   keep the heat out. * Set the thermostat to 78 degrees on warm days (85
   degrees when nobody is home).
