http://www.ustreas.gov/opc/opc0006.html

                                [pic0002.gif]
                 Seal The Learning Vault Seal [pic0002.gif]

                                  Tour the
                           Main Treasury Building
                              Washington, D.C.

                                [pic0002.gif]

   You can take a virtual tour of the Main Treasury Building, located at
   Fifteenth Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, in Washington, D.C., by
   viewing the material that we have provided below. Please note that this
   is NOT the tour for seeing the production of United States currency
   notes. To see currency production, you need to tour the Bureau of
   Engraving and Printing.

                                [pic0002.gif]

                         The Main Treasury Building

   The Main Treasury Building is located at 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW,
   in Washington, D.C. This view is taken from the north. In the distance
   is the Washington Monument.

   On the building's south side, you will see a statue of Alexander
   Hamilton, the first Secretary of the Treasury. On the north side, there
   is a statue of Albert Gallatin, the 4th Secretary of the Treasury,
   serving during the Jefferson and Madison administrations. On west side,
   next to the White House, you will see a reproduction of the Liberty
   Bell. All visitors must enter through the Fifteenth Street entrance.
   Outside Treasury

                                [pic0002.gif]

                                The Salmon P.
                                 Chase Suite

                                 Chase Suite

   The first stop on the tour is the Salmon P. Chase Suite, one of the
   restored historic rooms on the third floor. This suite of offices was
   used by Salmon P. Chase, who served as Secretary of the Treasury during
   the Civil War. Entries from Chase's diary indicate several meetings
   took place with President Lincoln in this room. This suite of offices
   is currently used by the General Counsel of the Treasury Department.

                                [pic0002.gif]

     The Secretary's Conference and Diplomatic Reception Room

     The next stop on the tour is the Secretary's Conference Room and
     Diplomatic Reception Room. The conference room is located directly
     across the hall from the Secretary's Office and next door to the
     Diplomatic Reception Room by a connecting hallway.

   These rooms recreate a typical mid-19th century government interior.
   They are used by the Secretary of the Treasury for senior staff
   meetings, diplomatic receptions, press conferences and interviews, and
   meetings with other Cabinet officers and foreign dignitaries.

                                [pic0042.jpg]

                                [pic0002.gif]

                               Reception Room

                          The Andrew Johnson Suite

   The final stop on the third floor is the Andrew Johnson Suite, location
   of the resoted office used by President Johnson as his temporary White
   House immediately following the assassination of Abraham Lincoln in
   1865. Black mourning cloth draped the Reception Room during the days
   following the assasination. The portrait of President Johnson is on
   loan courtesy of the Corcoran Gallery of Art.

                           Andrew Johnson's Office

                                [pic0002.gif]

                           The Burglar-Proof Vault

                                    Vault

   On the second floor is the Burglar-proof Vault, with its restored
   decorative cast iron wall. Built in 1864, the wall lining was composed
   of metal balls sandwiched between three steel plates that were intended
   to prevent a burglar from penetrating the vault. It is now part of the
   office of the Treasurer of the United States.

                                [pic0002.gif]

   The historic marble Cash Room on the second floor is the final stop on
   the tour. It was first used for President Grant's Inaugural Reception
   in 1869 and was restored to the way it looked then. It has been the
   site of many press conferences, meetings, receptions and bill signing
   ceremonies. Unfortunately, it was severely damaged in the fire that
   occurred on June 26, 1996, but the restoration to repair water damage
   caused by the fire is now complete.

                                The Cash Room

                                  Cash Room

                                [pic0002.gif]

                    We hope that you enjoyed this virtual
                 tour of the third oldest Federally occupied
                        building in Washington, D.C.

        ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS: We wish to thank the Office of
        the Curator for helping us to maintain this information. We
        also invite you to visit the Curator's Home Page (*@) to read
        more about the architecture of the Treasury Building and
        its historic collection.

         * Denotes links that will open a new browser window.
         @ Denotes links that are not under the control of the OPC.

                                [pic0002.gif]

         Brought to you by the Office of Public Correspondence (OPC)

                                [pic0002.gif]

   Quill Pen Learning Vault Home Page | E-Mail | Treasury Home Page Quill
                                                                    Pen
