http://epims.gsfc.nasa.gov/epims_pub/e_sys_reqt.html

EPIMS System Requirements

   [e_sys_reqt-1.gif]

   (Most recent update: August 19, 1997 11:43 pm)


Requirements Methodology

   Requirements for the system were inherited from the earlier
   requirements documents for EPIMS (see Parent Documents, below), which
   was a conventional (non-Web) information system. These requirements
   were revisited during Joint Application Design (JAD) sessions that were
   held at GSFC on January 17, March 21, and April 10, 1996, in order to
   identify new requirements and functional needs for EPIMS. Requirements
   developed at the JADs included responses to Software Change Requests
   (SCR's) written against EPIMS.

Parent Documents

     * NASA Electrical, Electronic, and Electromechanical (EEE) Parts
       Information Management System (EPIMS) -- System Specification .
       Document # MTR-88W74, Mitre Corporation, McLean, VA. 1988.
     * Electrical, Electronic, and Electromechanical (EEE) Parts
       Information Management System (EPIMS) Requirements Definition
       Document (RDD). Document # MTR-89W00150, Mitre Corporation, McLean,
       VA. 1989.
     * Information System Requirements for the Electrical, Electronic, and
       Electromechanical (EEE) Parts Information Management System
       (EPIMS). NASA Parts Project Office. December 17, 1993.

Requirements

   This section contains baseline system requirements and describes the
   system's end-user roles See Also: EPIMS System User Roles

Interface [I]

   This section defines the requirements for the user interface (UI) and
   system interfaces.

   [I-1] Default Results Display Window

   The default for displaying results shall be the entire browser window.
   (This is intended to accommodate users with small monitors.)

   [I-2] Record Counts

   The system shall display the count of records in all search results.

   [I-3] Scrolling Minimization

   User interfaces shall minimize the need for scrolling.

   [I-4] Date Sorts

   The search interface shall provide the capability to sort search
   results by date where applicable.

   [I-5] Date Searches

   Date searches shall be provided on all functions to which they are
   applicable.

   [I-6] Links to CAGE/Manufacturer Information

   Links shall be provided from search results to CAGE (Commercial And
   Government Entity) and manufacturer information where applicable; the
   manufacturer parent company shall be displayed with CAGE information if
   it is applicable.

   [I-7] Print and Save-to-File

   Print and save-to-file capabilities shall be provided. (This shall
   utilize the standard capabilities of Web browsers.)

   [I-8] Access Control and User Roles

   Access to system functions and data shall be controlled by means of
   user roles See Also: EPIMS System User Roles -- a user may be assigned
   one or more of the specified roles relative to distinct sets of the
   system functions and data.

Help [H]

   This section defines the requirements for on-line system help. These
   requirements apply to the help for all system functions.

   [H-1] Hypertext Help

   The system shall provide hypertext help documentation.

   [H-2] Help on Data Fields

   The system shall provide help for each data field (the minimum being a
   definition of the field).

   [H-3] Full-Text Search of Help (not yet implemented)

   The system shall provide a full-text search of Help topics.

Federal Supply Class (FSC) Directory [F]

   FSC Directory requirements include the FSC Directory data and all FSC
   and part classification services for all system functions.

   [F-1] FSC Database

   The system shall include a complete FSC database.

   [F-2] FSC Picklists

   The system shall provide an FSC picklist for all functions for which
   FSC is a search criterion.

Commercial And Government Entity (CAGE) Directory [C]

   This section defines the requirements for the CAGE Directory function
   and CAGE Directory services for all system functions. CAGE data is a
   listing of organizations, addresses, and a 5-character code, called a
   "CAGE Code", assigned to each organization by the Defense Logistics
   Agency (DLA). For more information on CAGE data, see the CAGE Web site.

   [C-1] CAGE Database

   The system shall include the DLA CAGE database.

   [C-2] CAGE Searches

   The system shall support searches by CAGE code and name, as well as
   searches for substrings of CAGE names or of CAGE listings (name,
   address, etc.).

   [C-3] CAGE Look-ups

   The system shall provide a CAGE Look-up capability from the search
   window of functions for which CAGE Code is a search criterion, to
   enable quick look-up and insertion of a CAGE Code.

User Directory and Data Access Control [U]

   User Directory and Data Access Control requirements apply to the
   tracking of system users and the control of their access to all system
   functions.

   [U-1] User Database

   The system shall contain a database of all system users.

   [U-2] User Roles

   The system shall provide the capability to associate each user with an
   organization (CAGE), project name code, and access roles See Also:
   EPIMS System User Roles

NASA Project Directory [P]

   The Project Directory requirements specify the support the system must
   provide for information on NASA projects, and the project directory
   services required for use by all system functions.

   [P-1] Project Database

   The system shall include a database of all projects that have data in
   the system.

   [P-2] Project Picklists

   A project pick-list shall be provided for any function for which
   project is a search criterion.

NASA Spacecraft and Design Items Directory [S]

   The NASA Spacecraft and Design Items Directory requirements specify the
   support the system must provide for information on NASA Spacecraft and
   Design Items, which is generally the Configuration Management (CM)
   information supported by the system.

   [S-1] Spacecraft and Design Item Repository

   The system shall provide a repository for spacecraft and design item
   information (the Spacecraft and Design Items Directory) for the use of
   NASA projects. The Spacecraft and Design Items Directory shall support
   at least the following attributes: item name, type (e.g., board,
   launch-replaceable unit [LRU], spacecraft, etc.), serial number,
   drawing number, criticality code, launch date, and point of contact
   ("owner" of the item or person to contact for information).

   [S-2] Design Item Hierarchical Navigation (not yet implemented)

   A hierarchical spacecraft and design item navigation interface shall be
   provided.

   [S-3] Spacecraft and Design Item Data Maintenance (not yet implemented)

   Spacecraft and design item data maintenance functions shall be
   provided. The project data administrator and global data administrators
   shall be the only users with access to these functions.

Parts Lists [PL]

   Parts lists requirements apply to the Part Usage function and to the
   relationship between parts lists and design items.

   [PL-1] Parts List Repository

   The system shall provide a repository for NASA project parts lists.

   [PL-2] Part Usage Searches

   The system shall support searches for parts by part number, FSC, CAGE
   code, project name code, and "full text" (all fields). Searches by
   substrings of part number shall also be supported.

   [PL-3] Parts List Searches (not yet implemented)

   The system shall support searches for parts lists by project name code,
   parts list type (e.g., Early Potential, As-Designed, As-Built), and
   parts list number.

   [PL-4] Parts List Versioning

   The system shall support the use of a version letter to distinguish
   between parts list versions.

   [PL-5] NSPAR Status Field (not yet implemented)

   The system shall provide a NSPAR status field on the Parts List
   Detailed Information screen.

Nonstandard Part Approval Requests (NSPAR) [N]

   This section defines the requirements that apply to the NSPAR functions
   and to their relationship to other system functions.

   [N-1] NSPAR Repository

   The system shall provide a repository for NASA project Non-Standard
   Part Approval Requests (NSPAR's).

   [N-2] NSPAR Searches

   The system shall support searches by part number, FSC, CAGE code, CAGE
   name code, CAGE association name, NASA NSPAR number, contractor NSPAR
   number, and project name code. Searches shall also be supported for
   substrings of part number, NASA NSPAR number, and contractor NSPAR
   number.

   [N-3] NSPAR Data Maintenance

   The system shall support NSPAR maintenance functions (create and
   modify). The Project User and Project Data Administrator shall have
   access to these functions for the projects to which they are assigned.

   [N-4] NSPAR Versioning

   The system shall support the use of a version letter to distinguish
   between versions of NSPARs.

   [N-5] Creation of NSPAR by Copy/Modify

   The system shall support the creation of a new NSPAR by copying and
   modifying an existing NSPAR from any project.

   [N-6] NSPAR Status Field

   The default search result shall show NSPAR status.

   [N-7] Additional Fields for Advanced NSPAR Search

   The Advanced NSPAR Search shall support searches by (1) QA Status and
   (2) any of the following types of dates: {Date Submitted, Date Entered,
   QA Approval Date}.

   [N-8] Exact NSPAR Searches

   The system shall support exact searches by NSPAR Number and Version.

   [N-9] NSPAR Data Validation

   The system shall validate the following data that may be entered in the
   NSPAR Maintenance functions (Create and Modify): Manufacturer CAGE
   Code, Vendor CAGE Code, Contractor CAGE Code, and Subcontractor CAGE
   Code. A valid CAGE Code must be one of the following: (1) in the system
   CAGE database; (2) "QPL", (3) "TBD", or (4) "81349" (a generic QPL CAGE
   Code).

   [N-10] NSPAR Data Conversion to Upper Case

   The system shall convert the following data to upper case when saved
   from the NSPAR Create or Modify function: NASA NSPAR Number;
   Specification Part Number; Generic Part Number; Manufacturer Part
   Number; National Stock Number; Closest Standard Part Number;
   Manufacturer CAGE Code; Specification Number; Screening Specification
   Number; Contractor NSPAR Number; Contractor CAGE Code; Subcontractor
   CAGE Code; QA Status; Project Status; and Vendor CAGE Code.

   [N-11] NSPAR Deletion

   The system shall support deletion of NSPARs by authorized users of the
   NSPAR Data Maintenance functions (Create and Modify). The system shall
   enforce the following business rules for deletion of NSPARs: (a) only
   one NSPAR at a time may be deleted, and (b) the user must preview a
   NSPAR before deleting it.

Alert Search [A]

   Alert Search requirements define the capabilities required by end users
   in searching for Alerts.

   [A-1] Alert Repository

   A repository shall be provided for the storage of and access to all
   Government-Industry Data Exchange Program (GIDEP) Failure Experience
   Data Interchange (FEDI) data (Alerts, Safe-Alerts, Problem Advisories,
   Product Change Notices, Diminishing Manufacturing Sources and Materials
   Shortages, Agency Action Notices, and Urgent Data Requests) and NASA
   Advisories. The repository shall be maintained by the EPIMS Alert
   Administrator(s) using the GIDEP download and Alert Value-Added
   Processing functions.

   [A-2] Alert Searches

   The system shall support searches by Alert number, part number, FSC,
   CAGE code, and full text. The system shall also support substring
   searches by Alert number and part number.

   [A-3] Alert Full-Text and Date Searches

   The system shall support searches of Alerts by full-text (all text
   fields) and by Alert Issue Date (before, after, or between two dates),
   in combination with other attributes (fields).

Alert Value-Added Processing [AV]

   This section defines the functional requirements for support of the
   Alert System Administrator in adding new Alerts to the system and
   performing quality control on the Alert data.

   [AV-1] New Alert E-mail Notification

   For each Alert downloaded from GIDEP, the GIDEP Automatic Download
   Process shall send an e-mail message to all ADA's and GDA's. The
   message shall contain the following data on each Alert downloaded:
   Alert Number, EPIMS time-date stamp as entered in the Alert download
   log, and a link to the New Alert Check-in function in order to enable
   immediate start-up of the function if a Web-enabled e-mail tool is used
   to read the message.

   [AV-2] New Alert Check-in

   The system shall provide a function to check in newly downloaded GIDEP
   Failure Experience Data Interchange (FEDI) data (herein collectively
   referred to as "Alerts"), simultaneously creating both a baseline
   version, which shall be called the "GIDEP" version, and a version for
   Value-Added Processing to operate on, which shall be called the
   "Value-Added" version. (Note that, immediately after New Alert
   Check-in, these two versions of any new Alert are identical.) The
   purpose of the New Alert Check-in function is to enable the EPIMS Alert
   Data Administrator(s) (ADA's) to review the results of the Alert
   parsing, to ensure that all data created is consistent with the GIDEP
   original (as represented by the Full Text) before it is checked in as
   the baseline ("GIDEP") version. This function shall be accessible only
   to the EPIMS Alert Data Administrator(s) (ADA's) and Global Data
   Administrator(s) (GDA's).

   [AV-3] Creation and Identification of Value-Added Alerts

   The New Alert Check-in process automatically creates database entries
   for both a baseline "GIDEP" version and a Value-Added version (with
   "-V" suffix) of each alert. Thus each alert shall thus give rise to two
   database entries. Upon creation, the only difference between the two
   entries shall be that the Alert number for the Value-Added version will
   have a "-V" suffix. All other database fields shall be duplicated.

   [AV-4] Value-Added Alert E-mail Notification

   Upon check-in of each new Value-Added Alert created, the system shall
   send an e-mail message to all Commodity Specialists (CS's) for all
   FSC's related to the Alert. The message shall contain the FSC for which
   the CS is identified, the Alert Number, CAGE Code, and Title, and a
   link to the Alert Value-Added Processing function with that Alert
   displayed for processing (this will enable immediate start-up of the
   Alert Value-Added Processing function if a Web-enabled e-mail tool is
   used to read the notification message).

   [AV-5] Record Locking

   When any ADA or GDA is performing Value-Added Processing on an Alert,
   that Alert number shall be locked to prevent other ADAs and GDAs from
   also performing Value-Added Processing on the same Alert at the same
   time.

   [AV-6] Permissions

   Only Alert Data Administrators (ADA's) and Global Data Administrators
   (GDA's) shall be able to create and modify Value-Added Alerts (-V
   extension). The original Alert data downloaded from GIDEP shall be
   saved in a "GIDEP" version (without the -V extension) that is not
   capable of being modified.

   [AV-7] Comments

   Only Alert Data Administrators (ADA's) and Commodity Specialists (CS's)
   shall be able to add comments to Value-Added Alerts.

   [AV-8] Searches

   The system shall support searches by Alert number, part number, FSC,
   CAGE code, full text, and by date (before, after, or between two dates
   where the date can be either the date of the Alert or the date of its
   entry into the system). Substring searches shall be supported for any
   search criteria (except date).

   [AV-9] Data Retention

   The original Alert and the latest version of the Value-Added Alert
   shall be stored in the system.

   [AV-10] Display Options

   By default, only the Value-Added version of the Alert will be
   displayed. The system shall provide an option to display the original
   ("GIDEP") version of the Alert instead of the Value-Added (-V) version.

Alert Impact Cross-Reference [AX]

   These requirements define the operations to be performed in
   cross-referencing parts lists to Alerts, maintaining a persistent
   record of the cross-references, and enabling end-users to search and
   disposition Alert cross-references to their parts lists.

   [AX-1] Automated Alert-to-Part Cross-Referencing and Retention (not yet
          implemented)

   The system shall provide automated cross-referencing of Alerts (all
   GIDEP FEDI data and NASA Advisories in the Alert Repository) to all
   project parts lists in the Parts List Repository that have been marked
   for cross-referencing by the Project Data Administrator; matching shall
   be done by part number, FSC, and CAGE; "special part numbers"
   associated with Value-Added Alerts by the Alert Data Administrator
   shall be supported to match imbedded part numbers and aliases. The
   results of the Alert-to-Part cross-referencing process shall be a
   database of "hits" -- a hit being the combination of an Alert and a
   matched parts list line item. The system shall store the results of the
   automated cross-referencing process (i.e., the hits) in an Alert Impact
   Cross-Reference Repository.

   [AX-2] Automated Updating of Alert Impact Cross-Reference Database (not
          yet implemented)

   Cross-references shall be updated automatically whenever new Alerts,
   etc., are added; also whenever a parts list is modified, and the
   results shall be stored in the Alert Impact Cross-Reference Repository.

   [AX-3] Alert Impact Searches (not yet implemented)

   Searches shall be possible by part number, FSC, CAGE code, spacecraft
   or design item number and name; substring searches by part number shall
   also be possible.

   [AX-4] Automatic Notification of Hits (not yet implemented)

   Automatic notification to project users shall be provided when new hits
   are found.

   [AX-5] Closed Loop Disposition System (not yet implemented)

   A closed-loop system shall be provided for the Project Data
   Administrators to disposition hits.

   [AX-6] Flagging Parts Lists for Cross-Referencing (not yet implemented)

   The capability shall be provided for the Project Data Administrator
   (PDA) to set a flag for each Alert type at each level of the project
   hierarchy (project, spacecraft, spacecraft item) to signify whether
   Alert cross-referencing will occur for parts lists for these items.

   [AX-7] Default Cross-Reference Flags for Projects (not yet implemented)

   The initial setting of a new project when it is created shall have all
   flags set to TRUE except for GIDEP Diminishing Manufacturing Sources
   (DMS) reports, which shall be set to FALSE.

   [AX-8] Default Cross-Reference Flags for Design Items (not yet
          implemented)

   The initial settings of a new spacecraft or top-level design item shall
   be set to those of its parent when the item is created (the ultimate
   parent is the project).

   [AX-9] Default Cross-Reference Flags for Parts Lists (not yet
          implemented)

   The default parts lists to be cross-referenced for an item shall be the
   latest version for each active life cycle phases.

   [AX-10] Setting of Cross-Reference Flags by the PDA (not yet
          implemented)

   Any of these flags may be changed by the Project Data Administrator
   (PDA) for the project in question. The capability shall be provided for
   the Project Data Administrator (PDA) to select any parts list for the
   project to which the PDA is assigned and choose to have Alert
   cross-referencing performed; this will be in addition to any parts
   lists that are cross-referenced by default.

   [AX-11] Attachment of Dispositions (not yet implemented)

   Dispositions shall be attached to individual Alert hits.

   [AX-12] Dispositioning by Alert Number (not yet implemented)

   The capability shall be provided for the Project Data Administrator
   (PDA) to select all the current hits for an Alert Number when creating
   or attaching a disposition.

   [AX-13] Identification of Dispositioner (not yet implemented)

   The userid of the Project Data Administrator (PDA) who last saves a
   disposition shall be stored with the disposition.

   [AX-14] Searches of Alert Hits (not yet implemented)

   The capability shall be provided to search for Alert hits that do not
   have dispositions.

Global Search [G]

   Global Search requirements define the capabilities needed for access to
   all data from a single search interface.

   [G-1] Basic Global Search by Attributes (not yet implemented)

   The capability shall be provided to search all applicable data in the
   system simultaneously by part number, CAGE code, CAGE name, CAGE
   association name, FSC code, and date.



   CAPTION:

EPIMS System User Roles

User Role

Assigned by

Assigns

Notes

   Global Data Administrator (GDA)

   Divine Right

   Any role
     * The Global Data Administrator (GDA) grants access to new users,
       assigns the Alert Data Administrator (ADA), Commodity Specialist,
       Alert User, and General User roles, and assigns the initial Project
       Data Administrator (PDA) role for new projects. The GDA can assign
       Project User roles, but this is customarily done by the PDA.

   Project Data Administrator (PDA)

   PDA or

   GDA

   PDA
   (for same project)

   Project User
   (for same project)
     * The initial Project Data Administrator (PDA) for a project is
       assigned by the GDA.
     * A PDA for a project can assign additional PDA's or Project Users
       for that project. From the point of view of the system, all PDA's
       for a given project are equivalent (i.e., have the same privileges
       and responsibilities).
     * The PDA is automatically notified of Alert Impacts on all project
       parts lists for their assigned project(s).
     * The PDA is responsible for the dispositioning of Alert Impacts on
       project parts lists for their assigned project(s).

   Project User

   PDA or

   GDA

   [none]
     * Project Users have the ability to create and modify project data,
       including parts lists and NSPARs, for the projects to which they
       are assigned.
     * Project Users who are owners of parts lists are automatically
       notified of Alert Impacts on those parts lists.

   Flight Assurance Manager (FAM)

   GDA or

   FAM

   FAM
   (for same project)
     * The initial Flight Assurance Manager (FAM) for a project is
       assigned by the GDA.
     * A FAM for a project can assign additional FAM's for that project.
       From the point of view of the system, all FAM's for a given project
       are equivalent (i.e., have the same privileges and
       responsibilities).
     * The FAM is automatically notified of Alert Impacts on project parts
       lists for their assigned project(s).
     * The FAM is responsible for setting the "cross-referencing flag" on
       project parts lists for their assigned project(s).

   Alert Data Administrator (ADA)

   GDA

   [none]
     * The Alert Data Administrator (ADA) has access to the "Alert
       Value-Added Processing" function, which supports the creation of a
       new, "Value-Added" (-V suffix) version of an Alert and the addition
       or correction of relevant data.

   GIDEP Coordinator (GC)

   GDA or

   GC

   GC
   (for same center)
     * The initial GIDEP Coordinator (GC) for a site (NASA Center or
       participating site) is assigned by the GDA.
     * A GC for a site can assign additional GC's for that site. From the
       point of view of the system, all GC's for a given site are
       equivalent (i.e., have the same privileges and responsibilities).
     * The GC is automatically notified of Alert Impacts on project parts
       lists for their assigned site.

   Commodity Specialist (CS)

   GDA

   [none]
     * The Commodity Specialist is responsible for providing information
       on Value-Added (-V suffix) versions of Alerts within the commodity
       class (Federal Supply Classification or FSC) to which they are
       assigned. This information may include technical implications of an
       Alert as well as its severity, scope of applicability, and
       recommended corrective measures.

   Alert User

   GDA

   [none]
     * The Alert User has access to all data in the system, including
       Alert data. This role is restricted to users whose organizations
       are GIDEP participants.

   General User

   GDA

   [none]
     * The General User has access to all data in the system except Alert
       data. This is the default role for any new user.

Candidate Requirements

   This section defines the Candidate Requirements for the system.
   Candidate Requirements are derived from System Change Requests (SCR's),
   and may be promoted to Baseline Requirements by the EPIMS Configuration
   Control Board (CCB), which is composed of the EPIMS Center
   Coordinators.

Federal Supply Class (FSC) Directory [F]

   FSC Directory requirements include the FSC Directory data and all FSC
   and part classification services for all system functions.

   [F-3] Searches for FSC

   Searches by FSC number, name, and category shall be supported.

NASA Project Directory [P]

   The Project Directory requirements specify the support the system must
   provide for information on NASA projects, and the project directory
   services required for use by all system functions.

   [P-3] Searches for Project

   Searches by project name and project name code (acronym) and substring
   searches shall be supported.

Parts List [PL]

   Parts lists requirements apply to the Part Usage function and to the
   relationship between parts lists and design items.

   [PL-6] Parts List Comparison

   The capability shall be provided to compare any two parts lists
   (MIL-STD-975 can be selected as one of the parts lists, to identify
   standard parts).

   [PL-7] Parts List Comparison Restricted to an FSC

   It shall be possible to restrict a comparison to look only at parts
   within a selected FSC or set of FSCs.

   [PL-8] Parts List Comparison Part Number Matches

   Matches shall be identified for any type of part number (spec, generic,
   or manufacturer's).

   [PL-9] Parts List Comparison Results Format

   Results shall be supplied in the form of (a) a list of matches and (b)
   for each parts list, a list of unmatched items.

   [PL-10] Parts List Comparison Reports

   Reports shall be provided with view, print, and save-to-file
   capabilities.

   [PL-11] Selection of Parts Lists for Comparison

   The ability shall be provided to search by Parts List Number when
   choosing a parts list for the Parts List Comparison function.

Alert Search [A]

   Alert Search requirements define the capabilities required by end users
   in searching for Alerts.

   [A-4] Additional Alert Report Options

   An option shall be provided to produce a combination report that
   includes the manufacturer's name with CAGE, the part description with
   FSC, and Value-Added information.

   [A-5] Value-Added Alert "Diff" Report

   The system shall provide the capability to show changes between a
   Value-Added Alert and the original GIDEP Alert.

Global Search [G]

   Global Search requirements define the capabilities needed for access to
   all data from a single search interface.

   [G-2] Global Search with OR Logic

   The capability shall be provided to search by multiple part numbers
   using "OR" logic across all part number fields.

Acronyms

ADA

Alert Data Administrator See Also: EPIMS System User Roles

AU

Alert User See Also: EPIMS System User Roles

CAGE

Commercial And Government Entity (a DLA database of organizations with which
the Department of Defense does business)

CS

Commodity Specialist See Also: EPIMS System User Roles

DLA

Defense Logistics Agency (source of CAGE and FSC databases)

EPIMS

Electrical, Electronic, and Electromechanical (EEE) Parts Information
Management System on the World Wide Web

FAM

Flight Assurance Manager See Also: EPIMS System User Roles

FEDI

Failure Experience Data Interchange (one of the GIDEP databases)

FSC

Federal Supply Class (DLA commodity classification system)

GC

GIDEP Coordinator See Also: EPIMS System User Roles

GDA

Global Data Administrator See Also: EPIMS System User Roles

GIDEP

Government-Industry Data Exchange Program (http://www.gidep.corona.navy.mil)

GSFC

Goddard Space Flight Center

JAD

Joint Application Design

NASA

National Aeronautics and Space Administration

NSPAR

Non-Standard Part Approval Request

PDA

Project Data Administrator See Also: EPIMS System User Roles

POC

Point Of Contact

SCR

System Change Request
