http://smallbusinesssuccess.sba.gov/exhibitions.pdf

   The U.S. Small Business Administration's Small Business Week
   Celebration Events and Exhibitions May 24-25th, 2000 * Small Business
   Exhibition (May 24th from 9:00 am to 6:00 pm/ May 25th from 9:00 am to
   5:00 pm.) The Best of Small Business Week 2000 showcase; an exhibition
   highlighting the small businesses that are being honored for their
   achievements, corporate sponsors and other businesses. Participating
   small business-owners will have a unique opportunity to meet with
   corporate and federal government buyers and project managers to discuss
   the possibility to sell their goods and services. The exhibition will
   be open to public from 9:00 am to 6:00 p.m., on Wednesday and from 9:00
   am. to 5:00 p.m. on Thursday. The exhibition will be held at the
   International Trade Center at the Ronal Reagan International Trade
   building, 15the Street, NW, between Constitution Avenue and E Street,
   NW. * A Millennium of Success Forum  Session I (May 24th from 9:15 am
   to 11:30 am) This interactive forum will highlight innovative ideas
   from some of America's leading business-people, to help small
   businesses grow and compete in next millennium. Small-business owners
   will offer their prospective on the challenges and opportunities that
   face small businesses in the next millennium. Expert panelists will
   answer questions from the participants on running a business and the
   future of eCommerce. This forum will be simultaneously satellite
   broadcasted and cybercasted to audiences around the country. * A
   Millennium of Success Forum  Session II (May 24th from 2:00 pm to 3:30
   pm) In this session; " Investing in our Youth", we will present the
   importance of cultivating youth entrepreneurship as a source of
   America's future business leaders. To achieve this objective, SBA
   entered into a partnership with the National Academy Foundation (NAF),
   which represents over 350 public schools throughout the country. This
   partnership calls for NAF to provide mentoring and training
   opportunities at small businesses for high school students and SBA to
   foster programs that combine school-based learning and work-based
   experience. * A Millennium of Success Forum  Session III (May 24th from
   3:45 pm to 5:00 pm) "Growing your Small Business in a Global Economy"
   is the topic of this session. Since international trade plays a
   significant role in the U.S. economy, it is only fitting that small
   businesses become an integral part of the global market place. The
   experts in this forum will discuss the ways that small businesses can
   successfully move into international markets and take advantage of the
   resources that SBA has available in support of this effort. * Issues
   Workshop (May 25th from 2:30 pm to 4:00 pm) This hands-on workshop,
   conducted by high-level SBA officials, will highlight various SBA
   programs that are readily available to sustain and enhance America's
   small businesses. Some of the programs that will be discussed during
   this workshop are: business financing, contracting opportunities,
   business development, mentor protegee, international trade and SCORE.
   The exhibition and three (3) forums will be held at the International
   Trade Center at the Ronal Reagan International Trade building, 15the
   Street, NW, between Constitution Avenue and E Street, NW. The
   exhibition will be open to public from 9:00 am to 6:00 p.m., on
   Wednesday and from 9:00 am. to 5:00 pm on Thursday. Should you have any
   questions regarding the Small Business Week, please contact Yosef Patel
   at (202) 205-6224. Thank you.
