http://www.info.gov/travel.htm


     Image of Federal Consumer Information Center star linking to the
   Federal Consumer Information Center web site
   Red button linking to National Contact Center's home page
   Red button linking to the Consumer Action Handbook
   Red button linking to www.kids.gov page
   Red button linking to the federal phone directories page
   Red button linking to the toll free phone directories page

                               Popular Topics
   Congress
   Consumer Topics
   Recalls
   Freedom of Information Act
   Federal Employment
   Privacy Act
   Medicare and Medicaid
   Federal Grants
   Federal Loans
   Savings Bonds
   Government Publications
   The Draft
   Finding Military Personnel
   Social Security
   Passports/Travel Abroad
   Workplace Issues
   Presidential Greetings
   Order a Flag

     Image linking to FirstGov "Your first click to the U.S. Government"
                               Text Version
                                 Site Map
                              Privacy Policy
                            Security Statement

         Title bar linking to National Contact Center's home page.

                        Passports and Travel Abroad

     | Passports for Adults | Passport for Kids | Renewals | Reissues |
                             Expedite Process |
    | Status Check  | More Information | Travel Warnings| Immunizations |
                               Driving Abroad|

   Americans who travel to most countries other than our near neighbors
   (for example, Canada and Mexico) must have a valid passport. In
   general, it takes about 4-5 weeks to process an application. You can
   obtain Passport Services and Information, including the location of the
   nearest Passport Acceptance Agency or Passport Office, by visiting the
   State Department's Passport Services and Information web site.

   First-time passports for adults (persons 16 or older)

   Where do I apply? In person at your closest Passport Acceptance Agency
   or Passport Office.  To find the office nearest you, please visit the
   Where to Apply for a Passport Nationwide web site.

   What form do I use? Fill out a DSP-11 form, the original of which is
   brown and white in color.

   What else do I need to bring with me? Along with the completed form you
   are required to provide proof of United States citizenship. This proof
   may be a State-certified copy of your birth certificate, an old US
   passport, your naturalization certificate, or a certificate of American
   citizenship. Along with the proof of citizenship, you have to prove
   your identity with a photo ID. This proof may be a valid US drivers
   license (learner permits are not accepted), a military ID, a pilots
   license, a school ID, or a similar document. If you are 16 or 17 years
   old, you may also be required to have a parent or guardian with you.

   What about the photographs? You must have two identical passport
   photographs, normally taken within the last 6 months.  A detailed
   description of photograph requirements is on the passport application
   form.   Consult your yellow pages for listings for passport
   photographers.

   How much does it cost and for how long is a passport good? The total
   fee is $60.00 and the passport is valid for 10 years.

               Passports for children (persons 15 or younger)

   Who applies for the passport? A parent or guardian.

   What documents and other papers are required? Proof of the child’s
   citizenship, 2 passport photographs, a DSP-11 form completed by the
   parent, and proof of the parent’s identity.

   How much does it cost and for how long is this passport good? The total
   fee is $40.00 and the child’s passport will be valid for 5 years.

   Do the children have to apply in person? Children 12 years old and
   younger are not required to appear in person at a Passport Acceptance
   Agency or Passport Office. All others must apply in person and may be
   required to have a parent or guardian with them.

   Can I renew a child’s passport? No. If the individual is still not 16
   years old when the passport expires, then the same process has to be
   followed as explained above.

   Additional Fees

   An additional adjudication fee of $100 will be charged to previously
   undocumented passport customers who were born outside the United States
   and who have not been issued any of the following documents: a U.S.
   passport, a consular Report of Birth Abroad, a Certification of Report
   of Birth, a Certificate of Naturalization or a Certificate of
   Citizenship.

   An additional fee $15 will be charged when, upon request, the
   Department of State verifies issuance of a previous U.S. passport or
   consular Report of Birth Abroad because the customer is unable to
   submit evidence of U.S. citizenship.

   No fee is charged to applicants with U.S. Government or military
   authorization for no-fee passports (except designated acceptance
   facilities may collect an execution fee of $15).

                              Passport Renewals

   What is the deadline for renewal? An expired adult’s passport must be
   renewed no later than 12 years after the issue date.

   Is the application form different? Yes. It’s a form DSP-82, the
   original of which is red and white and is available from Passport
   Acceptance Agencies and Passport Offices.

   What do I submit? The form, the old passport, name change information
   (if applicable), and new photos.

   How much does it cost? The total fee is $40.00.

   Do I have to apply in person? No. You should mail the form and the
   required materials to the address on the back of the form. You should
   try to reserve personal visits for when you are requesting expedited
   processing of your application.

              Passport Reissues (for modifications or changes)

   Is the application form different? Yes. For amendments (name changes,
   adding pages), it’s a form DSP-19.

   What do I submit? The form, the old passport, name change information
   (if applicable), and new photos (if applicable).

   How much does it cost?  There is no fee for this service unless you
   require expedited service.

   Do I have to apply in person? No. You should mail the form and the
   required materials to the address on the back of the form. You should
   try to reserve personal visits for when you are requesting expedited
   processing of your application.

                           Expediting the Process

   Can I get the passport faster? Yes, if you have proof of early
   departure and pay an additional $35.00 for each expedited passport.
   Price does not include overnight mail service.  Two-way overnight mail
   is strongly suggested and must be arranged and paid for by the
   customer.

                                Status Check

   How can I check the status of my application and how much will it cost?
   To check the status of an application you must call the National
   Passport Information Center, at a cost of 35 cents per minute for
   automated service or $1.05 per minute for operator service.  Operators
   are available from 8:30am to 5:30pm, eastern time Monday through
   Friday, except Federal holidays.  The number is 1-900-CALL-NPIC
   (1-900-225-5674), or 1-900-225-7778 for TTY users. Credit card users
   pay $4.95 per call by dialing 1-888-362-8668 (TTY users dial
   1-888-498-3648).

                              More Information

   What if I have another question you haven’t answered above? To verify
   locations of Passport Acceptance Agencies or Passport Offices, to get
   more information concerning any documentation requirements or expedite
   procedures, you may call the National Passport Information Center
   (listed above under Status Check) or our National Contact Center
   toll-free 1-800-688-9889 (TDD/TTY users, call: 1-800-326-2996).

                               Travel Warnings

   The Department of State regularly issues advice to Americans about
   unsafe or potentially unsafe conditions in the U.S. State Department
   Travel Warnings and Consular Information Sheets.

                                Immunizations

   You may check on immunizations requirements and other health issues
   connected with international travel by talking to your personal
   physician, by calling your county health department, or by visiting the
   Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's Travel Information Page.

                               Driving Abroad

   Many foreign countries require that Americans have an International
   Drivers Permit (IDP) in addition to a license from their home State.
   You may check the closest consular office of the country you are
   visiting to confirm whether you need an IDP and for insurance
   requirements for Americans who wish to drive in that country. If you
   are unsure where the consular office is, please call the Federal
   Information left toll-free at 1-800-688-9889 (For TDD/TTY users, call :
   1-800-326-2996). Your automobile insurance carrier should also be able
   to tell you about coverage in another country.

   If you are over 18, have a valid license, and two passport-size
   photographs, you may obtain an IDP from a local office of the American
   Automobile Association. If a local office is not listed in your
   telephone directory, please visit AAA’s web site for guidance.

   For precautions on driving and train travel overseas, you may read
   through the U.S. Department of State’s article, "Traveling By Train and
   Driving Abroad."  Image linking to top of page

   Last Updated: January 23, 2002

                 Logo of the General Services Administration
   This service is provided by the Federal Consumer Information Center of
     the U.S. General Services Administration. If you have a comment or
                question, e-mail us at catalog.pueblo@gsa.gov
