http://www.parks.wa.gov/winter/


   Return to Washington State Park's Home Page Winter Scene

   Home
   Reservations
   Park Information
   Rental Places
   Activities
   Agency Information
   ADA Recreation
   Site Map & Search


   Winter Recreation in Washington State

    Opportunities Abound!

   Winter sport enthusiasts and families can spice up the cold months with
   a variety of snow activities sponsored by Washington State Parks'
   winter recreation program. The evergreen state is "ever green" only in
   parts. The Olympic, Cascade, Blue and Selkirk Mountains provide great
   opportunities for all types of outdoor winter fun.
   Cross Country Ski

   Cross-country and downhill skiing, ski-jouring, snowmobiling, dog
   sledding, snowshoeing and tubing are available at a variety of
   locations across the state. In concert with federal agencies, private
   landowners and other state agencies, Washington State Parks administers
   this program in three national parks, seven national forests, and
   blocks of state and private forest land. Five major highway passes,
   kept open to normal traffic in winter, provide easy access to play
   sites and trailheads.

    Winter Recreation Program

   This program was created to open winter recreation opportunities across
   the state to everyone. Program priorities include safety, wildlife
   awareness and protection, and cooperation in accord with the Winter
   Recreation Code of Ethics (scroll down this page to access links with
   important information on program priorities mentioned, as well as
   permits, publications, and trail signs).

   Two citizen advisory committees advise State Parks in the
   administration of the winter recreation program, development of
   facilities and winter sport opportunities. If you would like to know
   more about the work of these groups or are interested in a future
   appointment as a committee member, call the winter recreation program
   at (360) 586-6645. The winter recreation (Sno-Park) advisory committee
   assists in the administration of non-motorized sports Sno-Parks, while
   the snowmobile advisory committee helps manage snowmobile Sno-Parks.

    Sno-Park Program

   The Sno-Park program, begun in 1975, is the core of the winter
   recreation program. Sno-Parks provide cleared parking areas for winter
   recreationists in close proximity to groomed and/or backcountry trails.

   There are two kinds of Sno-Parks (a few Sno-Parks offer both types of
   activities):
    1. Snowmobile Sno-Parks
       Information on Washington state's snowmobile Sno-Parks (see link at
       right for a directory of snowmobile Sno-Park locations).
    2. Non-motorized Sports Sno-Parks
       Non-motorized sports including cross-country skiing (see link at
       right for a directory of non-motorized Sno-Park locations).


    Who Pays to Maintain the Winter Recreation Program?

   These programs are funded solely from snowmobile registration fees, a
   percentage of the state fuel tax, Sno-Park permit revenue and thousands
   of hours of volunteer efforts. Trail grooming, sanitation facilities,
   mapping, trail signing, safety education, enforcement and program
   administration are paid for by user dollars.

    Important Information

   Trail Signs
          Trail sign emblems and explanations.

   Permits
          All you need to know about how to be legal.

   Publications
          Trail guides and other informational pamphlets - what's
          available and where to get it.

   Winter Safety
          How to stay warm and safe in the snow - including avalanche
          information.

   Winter Wildlife
          What you'll see while playing in the great outdoors, and how to
          protect it.


    Code of Ethics

   Maximize your winter enjoyment by following this Winter Recreation Code
   of Ethics:
    1. I will respect all public and private property and the rights of
       all winter recreationists to enjoy the beauty.
    2. I will park considerately without blocking other vehicles or
       impeding access to trails.
    3. I will keep to the right when meeting other winter recreationists
       and yield the right of way to downhill traffic.
    4. I will slow down and use caution when approaching or overtaking
       another.
    5. I will respect designated areas, trail use signs, and established
       ski tracks.
    6. When stopping, I will not block the trail.
    7. I will not disturb wildlife and will avoid areas posted for their
       protection or feeding.
    8. I will not litter, and I will pack out everything I packed in.
    9. I realize that my destination and travel speed are determined by my
       equipment, ability, terrain, weather, and traffic on the trail. In
       case of an emergency, I will volunteer assistance.
   10. I will not interfere with or harass others, recognizing that people
       judge all skiers or snowmobilers by my actions.


    More Winter Activities

   Overnight Camping
   Overnight camping is allowed at all Sno-Parks except Fields Spring and
   Mount Spokane. Many state parks remain open for camping during the
   winter months.

   See also State Parks' Hyak Lodge for a great winter retreat.

   Downhill Skiing
   Downhill skiing is offered at Mount Spokane State Park during the
   winter months. Five chair lifts, two lodges, a restaurant, equipment
   rental, ski training programs, a gift shop and other amenities are
   available in the park. For information, call (509) 238-2220.

   Snow Play
   Designated areas are available for tubing and general snow play at
   Fields Spring Sno-Park, Lake Wenatchee Sno-Park, Hyak Sno-Park, and the
   Wind River Sno-Park. All are open dawn to dusk in winter. In addition,
   tubing and general snow play are permitted in non-designated areas in
   all state parks and in many Sno-Parks. For safety's sake, snow players
   should stay off designated snowmobile and non-motorized sport trails.
   Ice skating is not available in any location. Due to the mild
   Washington climate, lakes do not freeze hard enough to permit safe
   skating.

    For More Information

   For information on the winter recreation program, call (360) 586-6645
   or e-mail winter@parks.wa.gov.

   For information on current trail grooming conditions, see link at right
   for snowmobile and non-motorized sprots Sno-Parks. Trail grooming
   information is updated weekly beginning Nov. 1 during the winter
   months.

    Snowmobile Sno-Park Locations

   A directory of Snowmobile Sno-Park Locations.

    Non-motorized Sports Sno-Park Locations

   A directory of Non-motorized Sports Sno-Park Locations.

    Permit Dealers

   A directory of private and government permit dealers.

    2001/2002 Winter Schedule
   Downhill Ski
   Snow play

   Copyright © 2002 Washington State Parks
   Please review our privacy policy.
   Contact us.
   Return to Washington State Park's Home Page

   Home Page | Reservations | Park Information | Rental Places

   Activities  | Agency Information | ADA Recreation

   Site Map & Search
   Washington State Government Information & Services
