http://land.gsfc.nasa.gov/HouserWRR1998.pdf

   WATER RESOURCES RESEARCH, VOL. 34, NO. 12, PAGES 34053420, DECEMBER
   1998 Integration of soil moisture remote sensing and hydrologic
   modeling using data assimilation Paul R. Houser,1,2 W. James
   Shuttleworth,1 James S. Famiglietti,3 Hoshin V. Gupta,1 Kamran H.
   Syed,4 and David C. Goodrich4 Abstract. The feasibility of synthesizing
   distributed fields of soil moisture by the novel application of
   four-dimensional data assimilation (4DDA) applied in a hydrological
   model is explored. Six 160-km2 push broom microwave radiometer (PBMR)
   images gathered over the Walnut Gulch experimental watershed in
   southeast Arizona were assimilated into the Topmodel-based
   Land-Atmosphere Transfer Scheme (TOPLATS) using several alternative
   assimilation procedures. Modification of traditional assimilation
   methods was required to use these high-density PBMR observations. The
   images were found to contain horizontal correlations that imply length
   scales of several tens of kilometers, thus allowing information to be
   advected beyond the area of the image. Information on surface soil
   moisture also was assimilated into the subsurface using knowledge of
   the surface- subsurface correlation. Newtonian nudging assimilation
   procedures are preferable to other techniques because they nearly
   preserve the observed patterns within the sampled region but also yield
   plausible patterns in unmeasured regions and allow information to be
   advected in time. 1. Introduction and less error than either remotely
   sensed data or model sim- ulations separately. Soil moisture is most
   often described as the water in the root The focus of this research is
   a prototype system that uses zone that can interact with the atmosphere
   through evapo- four-dimensional data assimilation (4DDA) methods
   applied transpiration and precipitation. Because soil moisture links
   the in a macroscale land hydrology model to generate soil moisture
   hydrologic cycle and the energy budget of land surfaces by fields on
   regular space and time intervals. The resulting model regulating latent
   heat fluxes, accurate assessment of the spatial is a first step toward
   a new generation of meteorological mod- and temporal variation of soil
   moisture is important for the els that have the capability to
   assimilate both atmospheric and study, understanding, and management of
   surface biogeophysi- hydrologic observations for an improved
   understanding of the cal processes. Given the crucial role of soil
   moisture in land interaction between weather and hydrological
   processes. surface processes, it should be monitored with the same
   accu- racy and frequency as other important environmental vari- ables.
   However, because in situ soil moisture measurements 2. Methods are
   generally expensive and often problematic, no large-area 2.1. TOPLATS
   soil moisture networks exist to measure soil moisture at the high
   frequency, multiple depths, and fine spatial resolution The Topmodel
   [Beven and Kirby, 1979]based Land Atmo- that is required for various
   applications. sphere Transfer Scheme (TOPLATS) [Famiglietti and Wood,
   Remote sensing of soil moisture is limited by errors intro- 1994] was
   used in this study. However, any high-quality spa- duced by soil type,
   landscape roughness, vegetation cover, and tially distributed
   soil-vegetation-atmosphere transfer scheme inadequate coverage in both
   space and time. Alternatively, (SVATS) could have been used. The
   TOPLATS incorporates many reliable hydrologic models are available for
   calculating simple representations of atmospheric forcing, vertical
   soil soil moisture, but these are prone to error in both structure
   moisture transport, plant-controlled transpiration, intercep- and
   parameterization. It has been suggested [Wei, 1995] that tion,
   evaporation, infiltration, surface runoff, and sensible and the best,
   operational soil moisture estimates might be obtained ground heat
   fluxes. The subsurface soil column was originally through a synthesis
   between remote-sensing data and hydro- partitioned into root and
   transmission zone layers in the logic modeling. Remote-sensing data,
   when combined with TOPLATS. However, passive microwave remote sensing
   is numerical simulation and other data, should provide estimates
   sensitive to moisture only near the soil surface [Jackson, 1993], of
   soil moisture with higher spatial and temporal resolution so a third
   surface soil layer was added for this study (J. S. Famiglietti et al.,
   manuscript in preparation, 1998). 1Department of Hydrology and Water
   Resources, University of Ar- 2.2. Data Assimilation Methods izona,
   Tucson. 2Now at NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland.
   The TOPLATS was modified to allow the assimilation of soil 3Department
   of Geological Sciences, University of Texas at Austin. moisture and
   other state variables. For ease of explanation, the 4Agricultural
   Research Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, following description
   assumes assimilation of observed surface Tucson, Arizona. soil moisture
   o. However, with modifications specific to the Copyright 1998 by the
   American Geophysical Union. state variable, the following description
   can be used to assim- Paper number 1998WR900001. ilate other variables,
   such as surface temperature. 0043-1397/98/1998WR900001$09.00 After each
   TOPLATS time step, coincidental observations 3405 3406 HOUSER ET AL.:
   USE OF DATA ASSIMILATION IN SOIL MOISTURE MODEL or observations within
   a predefined temporal window of the 2.4. Newtonian Nudging Assimilation
   Method current model time step are sought. It was found that when
   Newtonian nudging relaxes the model state toward the ob- there is a
   precipitation event between the time of an observa- served state in a
   manner that resembles the process of New- tion and the model time,
   assimilation of that observation is tonian cooling. This relaxation is
   performed by adding a term undesirable because of the very different
   surface conditions to the prognostic equation that is proportional to
   the differ- caused by the precipitation event. ence between the two
   states. These small forcing terms grad- If the observations fall
   outside the TOPLATS soil moisture ually correct the model fields, which
   are assumed to remain in range, defined by the saturated soil moisture
   s and the resid- approximate equilibrium at each time step [Stauffer
   and Sea- ual soil moisture r they are reassigned as follows: man,
   1990]. In this way the model can be nudged toward regularly spaced
   observations, or toward randomly spaced ob- o r 0.1% o r (1) servations
   during a period of time and space. o s 0.1% o s (2) 2.5. Nudging
   Towards a Gridded Analysis A gridded analysis is an interpolation of
   observation data to It was found that this applied to less than 5% of
   the PBMR the model grid. When this is available, the "nudging to the
   observations. If a large number of observations fall outside the
   analysis" method described by Stauffer and Seaman [1990] is models'
   allowed range, it is most probably an indication that used: the models'
   allowed soil moisture range is incorrect or that there is an
   observational error. A control and a direct insertion simulation are
   used as the t F , x, t G W x, t x o (6) basis for evaluating the data
   assimilation runs. A control sim- ulation (i.e., the simulation without
   data assimilation) can be The model's forcing terms are represented by
   F, o is the considered an extreme case, in which it is assumed that the
   observation at the model grid, and t is time. G is the nudging
   observations contain no information. The other extreme is factor that
   determines the magnitude of the nudging term direct insertion, where it
   is assumed that the model contains no relative to all other model
   processes, while the four- information. In this case, the model
   prediction of surface soil dimensional weighting function W specifies
   its spatial and moisture, temporal variation. The analysis quality
   factor varies between sz, is replaced with a soil moisture observation
   o whenever an observation is available, i.e., 0 and 1 and is based on
   the quality and distribution of the observations. Equation (6) is
   implemented for all three sz o if o observed (3) TOPLATS soil layers,
   with the weighting factor decreasing with depth and time using the
   four-dimensional weighting With direct insertion, no data are
   assimilated outside the re- function described later. The horizontal
   weighting function is gion where observations are available; therefore
   any advection always unity, because the only observation considered was
   that of information is accomplished only via the model physics in lying
   directly on the model grid that is being nudged. subsequent model
   integrations. 2.6. Nudging to Individual Observations 2.3. Statistical
   Correction Assimilation Method When observations are randomly spaced,
   the technique of "nudging to individual observations," as described by
   Stauffer In the "statistical correction" data assimilation technique,
   and Seaman [1990], is used. In this method the difference the modeled
   surface soil moisture mean and standard devia- between the simulated
   and observed state is determined at the tion are adjusted to match the
   observed mean and standard location of the observation then
   interpolated back onto the deviation. The method assumes that the
   statistics of the obser- model grid. The model's predictive equation is
   therefore vations are perfect, which is arguably more reasonable than
   assuming that each observation is perfect, as in direct insertion. N It
   also assumes that the patterns predicted by the model are W2 i x, t i o
   i correct but that the predicted surface soil moisture statistics i 1
   contain bias. As with direct insertion, advection of information t F ,
   x, t G (7) N into deeper soil layers is accomplished solely through the
   W model physics. i x, t i 1 The statistical correction method was
   implemented as fol- lows. The mean o where the subscript i denotes the
   ith observation of N that lies o and standard deviation of the soil
   mois- ture observations and model predictions were determined, and
   within a preset radius, o is the locally observed value of , and the
   model's standard deviation is the model's prognostic variable
   interpolated in three di- was adjusted to the obser- vation standard
   deviation as follows: mensions to the location of the observation. The
   observational quality factor varies from 0 to 1 and accounts for
   character- o istic errors in measurement systems and
   representativeness. i i for all i (4) The four-dimensional weighting
   function (described below) accounts for the separation distance, both
   spatially and tem- where i was the field of model soil moisture. The
   mean of the porally, of the ith observation from a given grid point at
   a given model-adjusted field of soil moisture states was redetermined
   time. Again, this nudging technique was applied vertically to all
   following the adjustment of the standard deviation, and the model soil
   layers. mean of the model field, , was adjusted to match the obser-
   vation field mean; thus 2.7. Temporal and Spatial Weighting Functions
   The Newtonian nudging weighting function W at time t and i i o for all
   i (5) location x for each observation I is a combination of the hor-
   HOUSER ET AL.: USE OF DATA ASSIMILATION IN SOIL MOISTURE MODEL 3407
   Figure 1. Schematic illustrating the location and boundaries of the
   USDA-ARS Walnut Gulch Experimen- tal Watershed in southeastern Arizona.
   Grass- or brush-dominated ecosystems are mapped, and the locations of
   the Lucky Hills and Kendall sites are shown [Kustas and Goodrich,
   1994]. izontal weighting function wxy, the vertical weighting function
   zobs z w w , z z, and the temporal weighting function wt; thus z 1 R
   obs z Rz (11) z W x, t wxywzwt (8) wz 0, zobs z Rz (12) For the
   analysis-nudging technique, where observations are available for each
   grid in the remotely sensed area, the hori- where Rz is the vertical
   radius of influence, and zobs is the zontal weighting function w
   vertical position of the ith observation. The temporal weight- xy is
   unity. In the case of the ob- servation-nudging technique, the
   horizontal weighting function ing function is defined as can be defined
   by a Cressman-type horizontal weighting func- tion as wt 1, t to 4 (13)
   R2 D2 wxy R2 D2 , 0 D R (9) t t w o t /4 , 4 t to (14) wxy 0, D R (10)
   w where R is the radius of influence, and D is the distance from t 0, t
   to (15) the ith observation to the grid point. The vertical weighting
   where t is the model-relative time, t0 is the model-relative time
   function, wz, is also a distance weighting function, following of the
   ith observation, and is the half period of a predeter- Seaman [1990];
   thus mined observation-influencing time window. 3408 HOUSER ET AL.: USE
   OF DATA ASSIMILATION IN SOIL MOISTURE MODEL Table 1. Spatially and
   Temporally Constant TOPLATS Parameters for Walnut Gulch Parameter
   Source Value Vegetation Parameters Vegetation height, m Humes et al.
   [1994] 0.22 Leaf area index Daughtry et al. [1991] 1.31 Minimum
   stomatal resistance, s/m calibrated (P. R. Houser et al., manuscript in
   preparation, 1998) 574 Initial water storage in canopy, m assumed dry
   at start of simulation 0 Unstressed soil moisture, % assumed halfway
   between s and r 20 Wilting point soil moisture, % assumed r (cacti
   rarely wilt) 2.2 Vegetation fraction Kustas et al. [1994] 0.42 Albedo,
   wet vegetation Dickinson et al. [1993] 0.2 Albedo, dry vegetation
   Dickinson et al. [1993] 0.25 Albedo, bare soil Dickinson et al. [1993]
   0.33 Root activity factor calibrated (P. R. Houser et al., manuscript
   in preparation, 1998) 348,025 Root density, m/m3 calibrated (P. R.
   Houser et al., manuscript in preparation, 1998) 86.5 Root resistivity,
   s/m calibrated (P. R. Houser et al., manuscript in preparation, 1998) 4
   1011 Critical leaf water potential, m calibrated (P. R. Houser et al.,
   manuscript in preparation, 1998) 500 Soil Parameters Surface zone
   depth, m Jackson [1993] 0.1 Initial surface soil moisture, % Monsoon
   '90 Database [Kustas and Goodrich, 1994] 10.0 Root zone depth, m D. J.
   Breckenfeld (unpublished document, 1993) 0.8 Initial root soil
   moisture, % Monsoon '90 database [Kustas and Goodrich, 1994] 17.0
   Maximum rate of capillary rise, m/s default [Famiglietti, 1992] 0.1
   Initial transmission soil moisture, % Monsoon '90 database [Kustas and
   Goodrich, 1994] 17.0 Sand content, % calibrated (P. R. Houser et al.,
   manuscript in preparation, 1998] 14.4 Clay content, % calibrated (P. R.
   Houser et al., manuscript in preparation, 1998) 8.1 Bulk density, g/cm3
   Kustas and Goodrich [1994] 1.6 Residual soil moisture, % calibrated (P.
   R. Houser et al., manuscript in preparation, 1998) 2.2 Saturated soil
   moisture, % calibrated (P. R. Houser et al., manuscript in preparation,
   1998) 30 Saturated hydraulic conductivity, m/s calibrated (P. R. Houser
   et al., manuscript in preparation, 1998) 8.7 10 6 Bare soil roughness
   length, m assumed 0.001 Bare soil zero plane displacement, m assumed
   0.0 Topmodel Parameters Ks exponential decay parameter Famiglietti
   [1992] 7.0 Water table depth, m Kustas and Goodrich [1994] 100.0 Energy
   Balance Parameters Soil moisture for PET calculation, % calibrated (P.
   R. Houser et al., manuscript in preparation, 1998) 0.46 Diurnal heat
   penetration, m calibrated (P. R. Houser et al., manuscript in
   preparation, 1998) 0.33 Temperature of deep soil layer, K calibrated
   (P. R. Houser et al., manuscript in preparation, 1998) 287.6 These
   horizontal weighting functions are well behaved in 2.8. Statistical
   Interpolation Assimilation Method areas of low observation density, but
   they degrade when ap- Statistical interpolation is a minimum variance
   method that plied in regions of high observation density typical of
   remote- is closely related to kriging. The technique can be traced back
   sensing observations. By adding more information in the form to
   Kolmogorov [1941] and has been in use by most major of observations at
   a distance, this weighting function decreases western meteorological
   services since the mid-1970s. the total magnitude of the nudging. As
   information is added Statistical interpolation is implemented in all
   three with increasing numbers of observations, the weight should
   TOPLATS soil layers as follows [Daley, 1991]: increase. The simple
   solution adopted here was to prevent the total nudging weight in (7)
   from falling below the largest indi- K vidual observation weighting
   function, W( x, t). Information a ri b ri Wik o rk b rk (17) from more
   distant observations is still used based on its indi- k 1 vidual
   weight, but the total weight is set to correspond to that where K is
   the number of observation points, W at the closest observation. The
   modified predictive equation is ik is the weight function, (r) is the
   soil moisture analysis variable, r is the three-dimensional spatial
   coordinates, N a(ri) is the analyzed W valueof attheanalysisgridpointr,
   b(ri)isthebackground i x, t i o i or first-guess value of at r i 1 i,
   and o(rk) and b(rK) are the t F , x, t G W x, t max observed and
   background values, respectively, at the observa- N tion station r W k.
   Again, in this study no interpolation is required i x, t to obtain the
   above fields because of the correspondence be- i 1 (16) tween the model
   and observation grids. The weight function Wik is determined by least
   squares where W( x, t)max is the maximum weight calculated for any
   minimization of (17), with the assumptions that b(rk), b(ri), single
   observation in the set of observations. and o(rk) are unbiased; that
   there is no correlation between HOUSER ET AL.: USE OF DATA ASSIMILATION
   IN SOIL MOISTURE MODEL 3409 Figure 2. Multiquadric interpolated
   precipitation for the Walnut Gulch Experimental Watershed for the
   6-hour storm of day 213, 1990. the model and observation error; that
   the error correlations vation which is the observation with the highest
   information are homogeneous, isotropic, and time invariant; and that
   the content is always included in this subset, thus approximating
   background error correlation b is horizontally and vertically the
   analysis made with all available observations. The second separable
   (i.e., b bxy bz) [Daley, 1991]. Thus method uses "superobservations,"
   these being average values of observation groups. The model domain is
   divided into sec- K tions, and all observations found in those sections
   are averaged W 2 il bxy rl rk o o rl rk bxy ri rk bz zi zk to define
   the superobservation. In this study, either 100 ran- l 1 dom samples or
   100 superobservations are used when applying (18) the statistical
   interpolation method. where o is the observation error correlation
   matrix, bxy is the background horizontal error correlation matrix, and
   2.9. Walnut GulchMonsoon '90 Observations bz is the vertical error
   correlation matrix. The most satisfactory way of The Walnut Gulch
   Experimental Watershed (31 43 N, estimating o and b is to use
   observations from a dense 110 41 W) near Tombstone, Arizona, is
   operated by the homogenous observation network and corresponding model
   Southwest Watershed Research Center (SWRC), Agriculture predictions
   [Schlatter, 1975]. Calculations of background error Research Service
   (ARS), U.S. Department of Agriculture correlation matrices are much
   more efficient if correlations are (USDA). The catchment is an
   instrumented area comprising specified using symmetric, positive
   definite correlation models the upper 148 km2 of the Walnut Gulch
   drainage basin in an [Buell, 1972]. The system of linear equations
   given in (18) is alluvial fan portion of the San Pedro watershed in
   southeastern solved using a simple and efficient Cholesky
   decomposition. Arizona (Figure 1). Eighty-five recording rain gauges,
   11 pri- Each PBMR image contains over 35,000 observations, which mary
   watershed runoff-measuring flumes, and micrometeoro- requires solving a
   system of 35,000 linear equations for each logical observations make
   the Walnut Gulch Experimental model grid point, each time an
   observation was available. Watershed a valuable research location.
   During Monsoon '90 Clearly, the computational resources needed for this
   task are (July 23 through August 10, 1990), eight micrometeorological
   unreasonable; hence a simplified method is required. energy flux
   (Metflux) instruments provided continuous mea- Two alternative methods
   for simplifying this problem surement of local meteorological
   conditions and the surface through reduction of observations were
   explored. In the first, a energy balance, and extensive remote-sensing
   observations subset of observations is randomly selected. The closest
   obser- were made; see Kustas and Goodrich [1994] for details. 3410
   HOUSER ET AL.: USE OF DATA ASSIMILATION IN SOIL MOISTURE MODEL Figure
   3. Watershed average Monsoon '90 meteorological observations used as
   forcing for the TOPLATS model. 2.10. TOPLATS Model Domain ture; thus
   much effort was devoted to deriving spatially dis- The entire Walnut
   Gulch Experimental Watershed was tributed precipitation data sets for
   the Monsoon '90 experi- modeled in a spatially distributed manner at a
   40-m resolution. ment. A multiquadric-biharmonic interpolation
   algorithm Predictions were made hourly from July 22 to August 15 (day
   [Syed, 1994] was used to produce spatially distributed precip- of year
   204228), 1990. The model was driven with spatially itation values for
   the entire model domain from the available variable topography and
   precipitation because these have a rain gauge data. An example of this
   interpolated precipitation significant impact on soil moisture. All
   other soil and vegeta- is shown in Figure 2. The
   multiquadric-biharmonic interpola- tion characteristics were spatially
   constant. tion method was selected because it proved superior to other
   common interpolation algorithms [Syed, 1994]. All other me- 2.11.
   TOPLATS Parameters teorological forcing (Figure 3) was assumed to be
   spatially The TOPLATS parameterization was based largely on ob-
   constant and derived from averaging observations at the eight
   servations made during Monsoon '90 [Daughtry et al., 1991; Metflux
   stations in place during the experiment [Kustas and Kustas et al.,
   1994; Humes et al., 1994; Kustas and Goodrich, Goodrich, 1994]. 1994;
   D. J. Breckenfeld, unpublished document, 1993]. How- ever, many model
   parameters were not observed and had to be 2.13. Soil Moisture State
   Observations for Assimilation estimated or specified by model
   calibration (P. R. Houser et al., The National Aeronautics and Space
   Administration manuscript in preparation, 1998). A summary of the
   TOPLATS (NASA) L band push broom microwave radiometer (PBMR), parameter
   values used in this study is given in Table 1. which operates at a
   frequency of 1.42 Ghz (21-cm wavelength), was flown on a NASA C-130
   aircraft at an altitude of 600 m 2.12. Temporal Forcing above the
   ground. The PBMR has four horizontally polarized Precipitation is the
   most important spatial forcing variable in beams pointing at 8 and 24
   from nadir. Each beam has a semi-arid regions owing to its highly
   variable, convective na- full width at half maximum power of 16 , which
   yields a 3412 HOUSER ET AL.: USE OF DATA ASSIMILATION IN SOIL MOISTURE
   MODEL Figure 4. Correlation between time series of PBMR data collected
   at different locations, plotted versus the distance separating the time
   series locations. Correlation distances for (a) PBMR soil moisture
   six-point time series; (b) PBMR soil moisture five- and six-point time
   series; (c) PBMR brightness temperature six-point time series; and (d)
   PBMR brightness temperature five- and six-point time series. Data
   presented are a random selection of 0.01% selection of the total.
   measurements were also made at daily intervals and at multi-
   measurement area and can be projected to extend to 60 km, ple depths
   down to 0.5 m at two of the Metflux sites [Kustas assuming linear
   correlation structures. Similar linear spatial and Goodrich, 1994].
   correlation structures were observed for the time series of sensible,
   latent, and soil heat flux. This supports the validity of 3. Results
   forcing the TOPLATS model with watershed average meteo- rological
   forcing data and of calibrating the TOPLATS model 3.1. Correlation
   Structure Analysis with watershed average flux observations. The
   ability of data assimilation methodologies to advect A geostatistical
   analysis of the PBMR-derived soil moisture information from data-rich
   regions to data-poor regions de- data showed that their correlation
   structure varies with time. pends on the assumption that there is some
   natural spatial The first PBMR observations taken during a dry day show
   a structure or correlation in the data. The correlation of PBMR
   disorganized spatial pattern in the variogram. After the large
   brightness temperature and soil moisture time series versus day 213
   precipitation event, the variogram becomes organized; distance is shown
   in Figure 4. This figure shows that the inver- then this organization
   degrades with soil dry down over the sion from brightness temperature
   to soil moisture has little next few days (Figure 5). The variograms
   shown in Figure 5 are impact on this correlation, and that longer time
   series im- based on instantaneous observations, which are a fundamen-
   proves the definition of the spatial structure. Figure 4 also tally
   different measure of spatial structure than the time series shows that
   the PBMR time series are highly spatially corre- correlation distances
   shown in Figure 4. Data assimilation lated. In fact, it seems that the
   correlation structure present in methodologies generally assume that
   correlation structures are these remotely sensed data extends well past
   the 15-km-long temporally invariant; hence further investigation of the
   chang- HOUSER ET AL.: USE OF DATA ASSIMILATION IN SOIL MOISTURE MODEL
   3413 Figure 5. Variograms for a 1% selection of PBMR brightness
   temperatures. ing soil moisture correlation structure is warranted when
   ap- The background error correlation (i.e., the distance corre-
   propriate longer-term soil moisture observations become avail- lation
   of the (P-TS) time series) shown in Figure 6 is the able. primary
   mechanism for advecting observational information Implementation of
   statistical interpolation requires the into data-sparse regions in the
   statistical interpolation method. specification of the background and
   observation error correla- It is clear from this figure that one
   additional measurement in tion. The observation error correlation is
   the horizontal cor- the time series has a large positive impact on the
   ability to relation between various observed time series with
   correlated identify the correlation structure; hence a longer time
   series error, minus observations without correlated error. Usually,
   would produce a more identifiable structure. Because of the for
   observations taken with separate, stationary instruments, dense nature
   of remote-sensing observations, the total number observation errors are
   uncorrelated [Daley, 1991]. For re- of pairs can exceed 600 million for
   the PBMR-TOPLATS data motely sensed observations measured by the same
   instrument, set; thus a 0.01% random subsample was used in Figure 6.
   however, the observation errors are correlated and cannot be A standard
   background error correlation function [Thie- ignored. The time series
   of in situ gravimetric observations G baux, 1976]: were used to assess
   the error correlation in the PBMR soil moisture observations P and the
   TOPLATS soil moisture con- sin cr r b r cos cr exp (19) trol run
   predictions T Lc L C. An analysis of the correlation of the (G-P) and
   (G-TC) time series showed no error correlation in was fit to the
   6-period background horizontal error correlation the PBMR data or
   TOPLATS predictions. using a simplex technique to derive the constants
   c and L. This 3414 HOUSER ET AL.: USE OF DATA ASSIMILATION IN SOIL
   MOISTURE MODEL Figure 6. Surface soil moisture background error
   correlation versus distance for (a) six-point time series, and (b)
   five-point time series. Plots represent a 0.01% selection of the total
   data. fitted curve is shown in Figure 6, and its parameters are given
   3.2. Assimilation Results in Table 2. Watershed average time series of
   surface and root zone soil Statistical interpolation allows for
   vertical assimilation of moisture derived using the various
   assimilation strategies are data, but to do so requires specification
   of a vertical, back- ground error correlation function. Because
   explicit definition shown in Figure 7. The transmission zone soil
   moisture is not of this function was not possible from PBMR
   observations, in shown because it varies less than 1% in practice.
   Nudging to situ profile TDR observations were used as a surrogate to
   the gridded PBMR observations inside the observed area formulate this
   function for the root zone (Table 3). yields an undesirable
   discontinuity at this boundary; therefore Following Stauffer and Seaman
   [1990], most of the Newto- nudging to randomly spaced observations was
   performed both nian nudging parameters, such as the analysis and
   observation inside and outside the observed area. Without calibration
   the quality factors, were set to unity. The parameters that deter-
   TOPLATS was unable to simulate surface soil moisture dy- mine the
   spatial radius of influence were set to the values namics, and even
   after a comprehensive multiobjective param- determined for the
   statistical interpolation technique (Table eter calibration, the model
   overestimated surface zone soil 4). The nudging factor is usually less
   than 1/ t, where t is the moisture and was unable to achieve observed
   poststorm dry- model's time step length [Stauffer and Seaman, 1990];
   10% of down. All of the data assimilation methods significantly and
   this value worked well in this study. similarly improved the simulation
   of surface zone soil mois- Table 3. Vertical Background Error
   Correlation Table 2. Optimized Background Horizontal Error Correlation
   Function Parameter Values Reanalysis Parameter 100 Random 100 Super-
   Metflux Site Original Observations observations c L Lucky Hills (site
   1) 0.4 0.26 0.27 Random observation reanalysis 1.1 10 7 3277.1 Kendall
   (site 5) 0.62 0.43 0.40 Superobservation reanalysis 8.9 10 8 12715.4
   Surface minus root zone, z 0.7 m. HOUSER ET AL.: USE OF DATA
   ASSIMILATION IN SOIL MOISTURE MODEL 3415 Table 4. Parameters for Soil
   Moisture Newtonian Nudging in TOPLATS Parameter Value Source Average
   depth of observation 0.05 m Schmugge et al. [1994] Average depth of
   surface zone can be variable TOPLATS parameters Average depth of root
   zone can be variable TOPLATS parameters Average depth of transmission
   zone can be variable TOPLATS parameters Temporal radius of influence 12
   hours subjective optimization Horizontal radius of influence 10,000 m
   SI correlation analysis Vertical radius of influence 0.5 m SI
   correlation analysis Surface zone nudging constant 0.2 subjective
   optimization Root zone nudging constant 0.1 subjective optimization
   Transmission zone nudging constant 0.0 subjective optimization Analysis
   quality factors 1.0 Stauffer and Seaman [1990] Observation quality
   control factors 1.0 Stauffer and Seaman [1990] Figure 7. (a) Comparison
   of TOPLATS watershed average surface zone soil moisture time series
   from various assimilation simulations. (b) Comparison of TOPLATS
   watershed average root zone soil moisture time series from various
   assimilation simulations. (Identical model trajectories often result in
   one line that represents multiple simulations.) 3416 HOUSER ET AL.: USE
   OF DATA ASSIMILATION IN SOIL MOISTURE MODEL Table 5. Watershed Average
   Water Balance Information ture, with the exception of direct insertion,
   which is unable to for the TOPLATS Data Assimilation Simulations impose
   an entire watershed correction and was therefore un- able to adjust the
   model trajectory sufficiently. Nudging had Simulation the clear
   advantage of providing smoother temporal adjust- Stat. SuperObs ments;
   however, this characteristic also inhibits the application Variable
   Control Updating Corr. Nudging SI of this method in real time. All
   simulations produced identical surface zone soil moisture simulations
   after the storm on day Precipitation 93.44 93.44 93.44 93.44 93.44 224
   because this storm saturated the surface zone, causing all Capillary
   Rise 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 ET 41.86 39.97 36.76 37.32 36.19 past
   surface zone forcing to be forgotten; however, this process Runoff 6.21
   5.68 5.15 5.08 5.11 does not occur in the models' root zone, where
   memory of past Recharge 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 assimilation is
   preserved. This sequence of events is not unre- Surface S 5.69 5.69
   5.69 5.69 5.69 alistic; rather, it suggests a time interval at which
   soil moisture Root S 33.51 32.31 29.85 22.60 0.40 Trans S 6.14 5.75
   5.09 3.49 1.91 observations are needed for data assimilation, this
   interval Leaf S 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.03 being less than or equal to
   the time between storm events. In-out 45.37 47.79 51.53 51.03 52.14 In
   the root zone the modeled time series fell into two distinct Total S
   45.37 43.78 40.66 31.81 8.03 groups corresponding to methods with and
   without the capa- Error 0.00 4.01 10.87 19.22 44.11 bility for vertical
   assimilation of information. Among the latter Capillary rise refers to
   the upward flux of water from the saturated group, nudging assimilation
   performs a more conservative cor- surface, ET is evapotranspiration,
   recharge is the drainage to the rection compared with statistical
   interpolation. None of the saturated zone, surface S is the sum of the
   changes in storage in the methods produced time series that match the
   root zone obser- surface zone, leaf S is the sum of the changes in
   storage in the vations. However, it is important to bear in mind that
   with only interception store, in-out is the total input less the total
   output, total S is the total change in storage, and error is in-out
   less total S. All two root zone observations, the root zone spatial
   variability is values are in millimeters. not adequately sampled.
   Figure 8. Sensitivity of assimilation information on watershed average
   surface soil moisture prediction using statistical corrections
   assimilation. 3420 HOUSER ET AL.: USE OF DATA ASSIMILATION IN SOIL
   MOISTURE MODEL these correlations, it might be surmised that this
   concept holds Beven, K., and M. J. Kirby, A physically based, variable
   contributing for a distance of less than 60 km. The correlation
   structures area model of basin hydrology, Hydrol. Sci. Bull., 24(1),
   4369, 1979. vary in time, depending on the soil's state of drying, but
   its time Buell, C., Correlation functions for wind and geopotential on
   isobaric surfaces, J. Appl. Meteorol., 11, 5159, 1972. series do have
   strong horizontal and vertical correlation struc- Daley, R.,
   Atmospheric Data Analysis, 457 pp., Cambridge Univ. Press, tures. New
   York, 1991. There is a clear trade-off between using a complex data
   Daughtry, C. S. T., M. A. Weltz, E. M. Perry, and W. P. Dulaney,
   assimilation technique and the ability to use all the available Direct
   and indirect estimates of leaf area index, paper presented at data due
   to the large computational burdens of performing Tenth Conference on
   Biometeorology and Aerobiology; Special Session on Hydrometeorology,
   Am. Meteorol. Soc., Salt Lake City, data assimilation at fine
   resolutions using dense data sets. On Utah, 1991. the basis of this
   study, it was found that, as the complexity of Dickinson, R. E., A.
   Henderson-Sellers, and P. J. Kennedy, Biosphere- the data assimilation
   model increases, the size of the assimi- Atmosphere Transfer Scheme
   (BATS) version 1e as coupled to the lated data set needs to decrease in
   order to maintain compu- NCAR Community Climate Model, Tech. Note
   NCAR/TN- 387 STR, Natl. Cent. for Atmos. Res., Boulder, Colo., 1993.
   tational feasibility. Complex methods have the ability to extract
   Famiglietti, J. S., Aggregation and scaling of spatially-variable
   hydro- more useful information from assimilated data, but simpler
   logical processes: Local, catchment-scale, and macroscale models of
   methods use more of the data to extract similar information. water and
   energy balance, dissertation, Dep. of Civ. Eng. and Oper. This
   trade-off allows simpler assimilation techniques to per- Res.,
   Princeton Univ., Princeton, N. J., 1992. form almost as well as complex
   techniques. In general, this Famiglietti, J. S., and E. F. Wood,
   Application of multiscale water and energy balance models on a
   tallgrass prairie, Water Resour. Res., argument suggests the use of
   assimilation methods that are of 30(11), 30613078, 1994. moderate
   complexity, are sound and computationally efficient, Humes, K. S., W.
   P. Kustas, and M. S. Moran, Use of remote sensing but use as much data
   as possible. If the information in the data and reference site
   measurements to estimate instantaneous surface can be efficiently
   compressed or filtered before its use in data energy balance components
   over a semiarid rangeland watershed, Water Resour. Res., 30(5),
   13631373, 1994. assimilation, it may be more reasonable to use larger
   data sets Jackson, T. J., Measuring surface soil moisture using passive
   micro- in complex data assimilation strategies. Because hydrologic wave
   remote sensing, Hydrol. Processes, 7, 139152, 1993. data assimilation
   requires hydrologic modeling predictions, it Kolmogorov, A.,
   Interpolated and extrapolated stationary random se- is limited by a
   similar trade-off between fine resolution and quences (in Russian),
   Izv. Akad. Nauk SSSR, Ser. Mat., 5(2), 8595, large area implementation.
   A statistically based assimilation 1941. Kustas, W. P., and D. C.
   Goodrich, Preface to the special section on may be a viable approach
   for use in large areas, but ultimately Monsoon 90, Water Resour. Res.,
   30(5), 12111225, 1994. the trade-off between resolution and area will
   be determined Kustas, W. P., J. H. Blanford, D. I. Stannard, C. S. T.
   Daughtry, W. D. by the application. Nichols, and M. A. Weltz, Local
   energy flux estimates for unstable Several supplementary observations
   are essential for imple- conditions using variance data in semiarid
   rangelands, Water Resour. Res., 30(5), 13511361, 1994. mentation of
   soil moisture data assimilation, the most impor- Schlatter, T., Some
   experiments with a multivariate statistical objective tant being
   meteorological forcing. Forcing averaged over large analysis scheme,
   Mon. Weather Rev., 103, 246257, 1975. areas may be adequate, but
   detailed spatial patterns of precip- Schmugge, T., T. J. Jackson, W. P.
   Kustas, R. Roberts, R. Parry, D. C. itation are essential. Clearly,
   regular, remotely sensed soil Goodrich, S. A. Amer, and M. A. Weltz,
   Push broom microwave moisture observations are required, but these must
   be supple- radiometer observations of surface soil moisture in Monsoon
   '90. Water Resour. Res., 30(5), 13211328, 1994. mented by in situ
   surface and root zone observations across the Seaman, N. L., Newtonian
   nudging: A four-dimensional approach to operational domain to specify
   error correlations, to calibrate data assimilation, paper presented at
   Mesoscale Data Assimilation, parameters, and to validate the
   model-calculated fields. Ob- 1990 Summer Colloquium, Natl. Cent. for
   Atmos. Res., Boulder, servations of soil and vegetation characteristics
   are likely Colo., June 6July 3, 1990. Stauffer, D. R., and N. L.
   Seaman, Use of four-dimensional data needed for optimal model
   performance, while observations of assimilation in a limited area
   mesoscale model, I, Experiments with surface water and energy fluxes
   are valuable for validating synoptic-scale data, Mon. Weather Rev.,
   118, 12501277, 1990. simulation results. Syed, K. H., Spatial storm
   characteristics and basin response, M. S. thesis, 261 pp., Dep. of
   Hydrol. and Water Resour., Univ. of Ariz., Tucson, 1994.
   Acknowledgments. This work was supported, fostered, and carried
   Thiebaux, H. J., Anisotropic correlation functions for objective anal-
   out to completion at the University of Arizona, Department of Hy- ysis,
   Mon. Weather Rev., 104, 9941002, 1976. drology, with financial support
   provided through NASA grants Wei, M. Y., Soil moisture: Report of a
   workshop held in Tiburon, NAGW-4165, NAGW-4087, and NAG5-3492#1 and
   through the California, 2527 January 1994, NASA Conf. Publ., CP-3319,
   1995. award of a NASA Global Change Fellowship. C. White facilitated
   processing and checking of Walnut Gulch data sets, while C. White, J.
   J. S. Famiglietti, Department of Geological Sciences, University of
   Garatuza, A. Mohammed Arzin, R. Scott, T. Keefer, and C. Harlow Texas
   at Austin, Austin, TX 78712. assisted in field validation of this work.
   J. Broermann and D. Braith- D. C. Goodrich and K. H. Syed, Southwest
   Watershed Research waite provided patient and consistent computational
   assistance. The Center, Agricultural Research Service, U.S. Department
   of Agricul- study would not have been possible without the data
   provided by the ture, Tucson, AZ 85719. USDASouthwest Watershed
   Research Center and without their as- H. V. Gupta and W. J.
   Shuttleworth, Department of Hydrology and sistance in interpreting
   these data from the Walnut Gulch Experimen- Water Resources, Building
   11, Room 122, University of Arizona, P. O. tal Watershed. The authors
   would also like to thank T. Schmugge, T. Box 210011, Tucson, AZ
   85721-0011. (shuttle@hwr.arizona.edu) Keefer, J. Toth, and an anonymous
   reviewer for their helpful com- P. R. Houser, Hydrological Sciences
   Branch and Data Assimilation ments on the manuscript. Office, Code 974,
   NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, MD 20771.
   (houser@dao.gsfc.nasa.gov) References Amer, S. A., T. O. Keefer, M. A.
   Weltz, D. C. Goodrich, and L. B. Bach., Soil moisture sensors for
   continuous monitoring, Water Re- (Received May 14, 1997; revised August
   23, 1998; sour. Bull., 30(1), 6983, 1994. accepted August 28, 1998.)
