http://ftp.ssa.gov/pressoffice/direct-deposit-pr.htm

Monday October 29, 2001

                                                               Tom Tobin, Acting Press Officer

For Immediate Release

                                                                 410-965-8904 FAX 410-966-9973

                           Social Security Online
                               SOCIAL SECURITY

                                News Release

                        Statement of Larry Massanari,
                   Acting Commissioner of Social Security
                              on Direct Deposit
                             (Aquí en Español)

   As a result of the recent incidents involving our nations mailing
   system, the one question we are repeatedly hearing at the Social
   Security Administration is, "Will I get my benefit payment?" I want to
   assure the American public that these incidents have not adversely
   affected the payment of Social Security or Supplemental Security Income
   (SSI) benefits.

   In addition, some understandable concerns have been expressed by our
   beneficiaries about the safety of mailed Social Security and SSI
   checks. For those who have these concerns, I want to encourage them to
   use the most convenient and safest way for beneficiaries to receive
   their paymentsDirect Deposit.

   Direct deposit presents many advantages. It eliminates concerns about
   delayed mail. Direct deposit eliminates the need for frequent trips to
   banks; payments are deposited automatically into accounts and are
   readily available for immediate use. There is no need to wait in long
   lines to cash a check or to worry when a visit to a bank is impossible
   due to inclement weather or a lack of transportation. And with direct
   deposit, the possibility of a stolen check is removed.

   The only difference with direct deposit is that checks are not printed
   or mailed. Currently, more than 50 million Americans receive Social
   Security and SSI benefits. Of those, over 75 percent have taken
   advantage of direct deposit.

   Direct deposit presents an advantage for the government as well. It
   costs the government 45 cents to process and mail a check while it
   costs only 4 cents to send a payment by direct deposit. Last year,
   direct deposit saved the Social Security Trust Funds approximately $133
   million.

   Signing up for direct deposit is relatively simple and easy, just call
   SSAs toll free number, 1-800-772-1213, or visit the nearest local
   Social Security office. Banks, savings and loan or credit unions can
   also help people sign up for direct deposit.

   If for some reason, an individual does not have an account and cannot
   open one at a bank, savings and loan or credit union, the Department of
   Treasury has created special low-cost accounts available to persons who
   receive a federal benefit. To find out where to open one of these
   low-cost Electronic Transfer Accounts (ETA) individuals should call
   1-888-382-3311, toll-free or look for the ETA logo in the financial
   institutions window or lobby.

   At the Social Security Administration, we understand that recent
   incidents have raised concerns about changes in the way we have
   traditionally lived our lives. We are doing everything that we can to
   make sure our service is as dependable now as it has been for over 66
   years.

                                    # # #

   NOTE TO CORRESPONDENTS: A fact sheet about direct deposit is available
   here.

      Note: Copies of most SSA press releases, as well as other Social
                    Security information and statistics,
      are available at SSA’s Internet site, Social Security Online, at
                             http://www.ssa.gov.
          Also look there for information on subscribing to SSA’s
             free electronic newsletter, Social Security e-news.

   SSA Press Office 4-H-9 West High Rise 6401 Security Blvd. Baltimore, MD
                                    21235
                        410-965-8904 FAX 410-966-9973
