http://burns.senate.gov/biography.html

   [USEMAP:leftbar6_b.jpg]
   [bgtest3.jpg]

                                Conrad Burns
                    Montana's 19th United States Senator

   Auctioneer, broadcaster, county commissioner, football referee,
   livestock fieldman and Marine, Senator Conrad Burns became the first
   Republican in the history of Montana to be elected by popular vote to
   second (November 1994) and third (November 2000) terms.

   Burns became Montana's 19th United States Senator on January 2, 1989.
   In 1988, Burns defeated incumbent Senator John Melcher, becoming only
   the second Republican senator ever elected by popular vote from his
   state. He was the only Republican challenger to defeat an incumbent
   that year.

   As Montana's representative, Burns has worked for a healthy job base
   for Montanans; effective, fiscally responsible government; tax reform;
   realistic health care reform; the expansion of Montana's agricultural
   industry and preservation of natural resource-based jobs; and increased
   economic opportunity, better health care and improved education through
   telecommunications.

   Legislative Activities

   Since his election, Burns has worked to have a greater impact in the
   Senate by gaining five key committee assignments:
   ~Appropriations; ~Commerce, Science and Transportation; ~Energy and
   Natural Resources; ~Small Business; and ~Aging .

   Additionally, Burns is the Republican Senate co-chair of the
   Congressional Internet Caucus, co-chair of the Senate Tourism Caucus,
   co-chair of the Lewis & Clark Bicentennial Congressional Caucus, a
   member of the Senate Rural Health Caucus and a founding member of the
   Senate Private Property Rights Caucus.

   Agriculture and Natural Resources

   Born and raised on a family farm and later working in the Billings
   stockyards, Burns has strong agricultural roots. He understands the
   importance of agriculture and natural resource industries to Montana's
   economic base. He has been a strong voice on private property rights,
   grazing reform, and excessive government regulation.

   He is a strong presence on such issues as Endangered Species and Clean
   Water legislation. He was a driving force behind a variety farm relief
   bill during the current agriculture crisis and his income averaging
   legislation is now law.

   Paving the Information Super Highways of the Future

   As the ranking member of both the Communications Subcommittee of the
   Commerce Committee and the Science, Technology and Space Subcommittee,
   Burns envisions the nationwide construction of a communications
   infrastructure that will greatly increase opportunities in education,
   health care and business, especially for residents of rural states like
   Montana. Yahoo! Internet Life magazine twice named Senator Burns one of
   the ten most "Net-friendly" members and described him as "one of the
   fathers of the modern Internet."

   His goal is to make sure that everyone, regardless of location or
   economic resources, has access to the information highways of the
   future. He has diligently supported Montana telecommunications projects
   involving distance learning and telemedicine. He is also working to
   link Montana's tribal colleges, a first step in building a statewide
   information network. Senator Burns has also been the driving force
   behind legislation to promote commerce and security across the
   Internet. His communications agenda for the 107th Congress, the Tech 7,
   can be viewed by clicking
   here.

   Small Business

   On the Small Business Committee, Burns has staunchly defended America's
   primary job creators: small businesses. He firmly believes less
   government regulation and fewer taxes are key ingredients that lead to
   healthy, job-producing small businesses. The votes he cast in 2000 gave
   him a 100 percent voting record with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.
   Other recent ratings include 100 percent from the National Federation
   of Independent Business and 100 percent from the National Retail
   Federation. As a leading small business advocate in the Senate, Burns
   recently sponsored the Senate version of a bill that reinstated the
   installment sale tax method. Burns intends to continue his push for
   policies that advocate the needs of small business in Montana, from
   natural resources and agribusiness to tourism and Main Street.

   Fewer Taxes, Less Spending

   As the first U.S. senator from Montana since Senator Mike Mansfield to
   serve on the Senate Committee on Appropriations, considered to be the
   Senate's most powerful committee. Burns has used this assignment to
   keep his eye on government spending and to create jobs and economic
   opportunities in Montana. Since joining the committee, Burns has helped
   Montana quadruple its share of federal funds while limiting the growth
   of federal spending to balance the budget.

   At the same time, he has consistently fought for lower taxes. His
   efforts have earned him awards from the National Taxpayers Union and
   Americans for Tax Reform. Burns often borrows from Ronald Reagan, who
   said that the problem is not that government taxes too little; the
   problem is that government spends too much.

   Personal History

   Burns was born on a small farm near Gallatin, Missouri, on January 25,
   1935, to Russell and Mary Frances (Knight) Burns. His mother was active
   in politics as a county chairman and state committeewoman for the
   Democratic Party. Burns attended Pleasant Grove, a country grade
   school. He graduated from Gallatin High School in 1952.

   After two years in the College of Agriculture at the University of
   Missouri, Burns enlisted in the Marine Corps where he was a small arms
   instructor and served in the Far East. He then worked for TWA and Ozark
   airlines for three years. In 1962, he became a field representative for
   Polled Hereford World Magazine and moved to Billings. Burns was named
   the first manager of the Northern International Livestock Expo in 1968
   and became involved in radio and television broadcasting of
   agricultural market news while working for the Billings Livestock
   Commission.

   He was a farm and ranch news reporter for a Billings television station
   before creating the Northern Ag Network in 1975 with four radio
   stations. By 1986, when he sold his interest in the network, it served
   31 radio and six television stations in Montana and Wyoming.

   Prior to his election to the U.S. Senate, Burns served as Yellowstone
   County Commissioner for two years. Yellowstone County is Montana's most
   populous county.

   Family

   Conrad Burns married Phyllis Kuhlmann of North Platte, Nebraska, in
   1967. She graduated from Concordia Teachers College in Seward,
   Nebraska, and was a teacher at Trinity Lutheran Grade School in
   Billings from 1966 to 1970. Phyllis has also taught at Lutheran schools
   in the Washington, D.C., area.

   Conrad and Phyllis are the proud parents of two. Their daughter, Keely,
   is a doctor who one day wants to practice medicine in rural Montana.
   Their son, Garrett, lives in Tucson, Arizona, with his wife, Kate, and
   he plans to continue his education.

   The Burns family belongs to Atonement Lutheran Church in Billings.


   [a_Rectangle_6.gif]

                              Washington Office
                             187 Dirksen Senate
                               Office Building
                           Washington, D.C. 20510
                                (202)224-2644
                              (202)224-8594 fax
                           (202)224-8616 TDD line
                          toll-free 1-800-344-1513
