http://www.nwr.noaa.gov/1press/050300_1.htm

   FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
   May 3, 2000
   Contact: Brian Gorman
   (206) 526-6613

     Science Review Panel Appointed to Guide West Coast Salmon Recovery

   The federal agency charged with restoring more than two dozen
   populations of West Coast salmon and steelhead listed under the
   Endangered Species Act has appointed a panel of scientists to guide
   technical work on the fishes recovery over the next several years, it
   announced today.

   "This is a significant step in the salmon-recovery process," said Usha
   Varanasi, head of the National Marine Fisheries Service's Northwest
   Fisheries Science Center in Seattle. The center, in concert with its
   southwest counterpart in La Jolla, Calif., will oversee the panel's
   work.

   "When this prestigious group convenes in Seattle next month it will
   represent in one place perhaps the most comprehensive body of knowledge
   on conservation biology in the nation," Varanasi added.

   The six-member group of independent scientists, chosen after a
   five-month search from almost 40 candidates, will oversee the work of
   about nine technical recovery teams that in turn will set biological
   goals needed for salmon recovery in the Northwest and California. The
   first technical team--examining Puget Sound chinook, chum and
   sockeye--was appointed last month. A second technical team, to examine
   listed fish in the lower Columbia and Willamette rivers, is expected to
   be named in the next few months.

   Recovery plans are required following a listing under the Endangered
   Species Act. They set standards for recovery and outline the steps need
   to improve a protected population's status to the point where it can be
   removed from the endangered species list.

   NOAA Fisheries has listed 26 populations of salmon and steelhead in
   Washington, Idaho, Oregon and California.

   The panel is expected to carry out a variety of tasks, including:
   Reviewing elements of the recovery planning process being developed by
       the fisheries service.
       Ensuring soundness of the science that will form the basis for all
       recovery efforts.
       Reviewing work of the technical recovery teams.

   Varanasi said that the panel's work, and the entire recovery process,
   would be "long-term and very complex." She added, however, that any
   recovery plans would build on efforts already underway in many areas,
   including work being done by state and local governments, Indian tribes
   and private conservation groups.

   "Salmon recovery should be high on everyone's agenda," said Robert
   Paine, a marine community ecologist from the University of Washington
   and the panel's chairman. "Working with this group of distinguished
   scientists assembled by the National Marine Fisheries Service will be a
   privilege. The challenge is real; the problem significant. The solution
   requires both difficult and novel science and a more global
   perspective."

   In addition to Paine, review panelists are:
       · Ted Case, an evolutionary biologist from the University of
   California, San Diego
       · Fran James, a conservation biologist from Florida State
   University
       · Russ Lande, an evolutionary biologist and population geneticist
   from the University of California, San Diego
       · Si Levin, a theoretical and mathematical ecologist from Princeton
   University
       · William Murdoch, a theoretical and experimental population
   ecologist from the University of California, Santa Barbara.

   The members of the panel will serve three-year terms. Technical team
   members serve two-year terms.

   There is more information about recovery efforts on the Northwest
   Fisheries Science Center's Web page at www.nwfsc.noaa.gov.

                                     ###
