http://www.pugetsound.med.va.gov/gen/getcare.htm

      Text Only Version Home  |  Search  |  Site Map  |  Visitor Center

                                 [logo.gif]

                                Patient Care


                            Appointments
                            Emergency Care
                            Hepatitis C
                            Hypertension Classes
                            Inpatient Care
                            Visitor Center
                            What To Bring


   [patientcare.jpg] You are in good hands. The entire staff at VA Puget
   Sound will do everything possible to make your visit with us as
   pleasant and comfortable as possible. VA Puget Sound is recognized as
   one of the finest medical centers in the world and our high standards
   are reflected in the exceptional quality of our staff.

   VA Puget Sound sees approximately 250,000 veterans with more than half
   of million outpatient visits and 11,000 inpatient visits.  We provide
   patient in both general and specialized areas to include cardiology,
   dermatology, endocrinology and diabetes, geriatrics, mental health,
   neurology, oncology, pulmonary, rheumatology and women's health.
   Aided by the most advanced diagnostic and treatment technology
   available, your healthcare team is here to ensure that you receive the
   best possible care.

   This section is designed to answer the questions you may have prior to
   coming to VA Puget Sound.

   Emergency Care

   Call 911 for any life-threatening emergency. Call your doctor for
   non-life-threatening emergencies. For chest pain or suspected stroke,
   have someone bring you directly to the Emergency Department. These
   conditions are best treated immediately. Do not drive yourself.

   Inpatient Care

   [getcar1.jpg] VA Puget Sound operates 536 beds with 315 authorized for
   acute care (including 15 blind rehab beds and 38 spinal cord injury
   beds), 131 nursing-home beds, 60 domiciliary beds and 30 residential
   rehab beds.

   Out facility offers state-of-the-art medicine accompanied by the latest
   in technology including barcode medication administration which reduces
   medication errors and computerized patient record system.

   What To Bring

   When you come to the hospital, please be sure to bring the following:
     * A list of the medications you take and the amount you take daily of
       each. Do not bring your medications with you.
     * Glasses, hearing aids, dentures, toiletries (shampoo, toothbrush,
       etc.), robe, slippers
     * Insurance information, emergency telephone number
     * A copy of your advance directives
     * Please do not bring cash or valuables.

    This page last updated on 12/03/2001 .
    If you have difficulty accessing any material on this website, please
    contact us in writing or via telephone and we will work with you to
    make the information available.
    Contact Us |  Comments and Suggestions   |  Copyright  |  Disclaimer
    |  E-Mail This Link To A Friend  |  Privacy Statement
    VA National Web Site  |  VISN 20
