http://newton.dep.anl.gov/sciintro.htm

                 What do I do to Answer Questions on NEWTON?

  Are you a math, science or computer professor or scientist?
  If so, ..

   We would like to request that you consider participating in Argonne
   National
   Laboratory's Ask a Scientist Service [AAS] by volunteering to answer
   questions
   from K-12 students and teachers in your field of expertise.

   What I have following is a brief explanation as to how this all works.

   NEWTON BBS of the Division of Educational Programs located at the
   Argonne
   National Laboratory in Illinois, USA [www.newton.dep.anl.gov] has been
   in
   operation since 1991 and we receive a wide variety of questions by
   email or via
   our web page from all over the world from chiefly the K-12 school
   environment.
   These questions are assigned as physics, chemistry, earth science,
   astronomy, engineering, math, computer science, zoology, molecular
   biology, veterinarian or they are placed in the
   general category. We receive, jury and email the questions to those
   scientists
   assigned in the category (ies) that best fits the question. Scientists,
   in turn, are not obligated to answer any question of course.

   Any questions that are of interest and addressed by you, simply reply
   to the
   question and it returns to us [Steve Sample or Nate Unterman.]
   We send a copy to the person who originally asked the question and send
   a copy
   to our archives in NEWTON BBS

   All questions sent out begin with the subject line of: NEWTON BBS..

   To help me along, we ask that you include the original question and
   information
   of the person sending the question including their email address to
   allow me
   to process the questions quickly. I receive about 100 questions per
   week
   (and on occasion in single days) Also sign your work or include your
   signature
   at the end of your answer.

   Keep in mind, you are not obligated to answer any question and this
   activity
   will NOT CLUTTER YOUR EMAIL ACCOUNT (we do not receive that many
   questions per
   content area). I return about 50% of the questions received to the
   sender when
   the question is too vague or easily answered via references.

   Scientists are polled as to what subject areas they feel comfortable
   answering
   questions. Some scientists ask to receive all questions and others
   request
   that we limit questions to one or more specific categories. Please
   advise me
   as to your wishes.

   You do not need to sign up on NEWTON BBS. However, you are welcome to
   by
   telneting to newton.dep.anl.gov and sign up as "new", if you have not
   done so
   already. We will pick up on your sign on and promote you to use the
   BBS.
   All AAS questions/answers are in the BBS and eventually are posted on
   web pages.

If you are interested, send us a simple bio. and the catagories of interest!
We do the rest!

  Thanks again for your help,
  NEWTON AAS Volunteers

   Email: Ask A Scientist Service

                NEWTON's Telnet Site Ask A Scientist Archives
                  NEWTON Homepage         Ask A Question

        December 07, 2001
