http://www.igpp.lanl.gov/Proposals/2002_Call.html

                             IGPP at Los Alamos

Call for Collaborative Research Proposals 2002

                      (Both New and Renewal Proposals)



   Introduction


   IGPP at Los Alamos is a branch of the University of California’s
   Systemwide Institute of Geophysics and Planetary Physics.  Its mission
   is to support laboratory researchers in performing basic research in
   the area of geosciences, space sciences, astrophysics, and the study of
   oceans and atmospheres, which will strengthen the scientific competency
   of Los Alamos National Laboratory, particularly in the area of Earth
   Systems and Space Sciences. A major part of IGPP’s approach is to seek
   collaborations between laboratory and university researchers. This call
   is for collaborative research proposals in support of the topics
   specified below. Support for such proposals is open to both University
   of California and other universities.

   Both the Regents of the University of California and the Director of
   the Laboratory have provided funds for collaborative research projects
   involving the two institutions. In addition to UC proposals supported
   by this agreement, the IGPP at Los Alamos also accepts proposals for
   collaborative research between the staff at Los Alamos and faculty and
   students from non-UC institutions. Successful non-UC proposals are
   funded entirely by Los Alamos and the university investigator’s home
   institution. Non-UC collaborators are therefore required to include
   some form of analogous support from their institutions.

   Research Focuses and Topics


   IGPP has a long-term commitment to basic research focused on the
   following research areas:


   •     Astrophysics,

   •     Earth Materials,

   •     Lithospheric Processes,

   •     Planetary Atmospheres and Oceans,

   •     Planetary Interiors, and

   •     Space Plasma Physics


   Each project above is directed by a focus leader who is responsible for
   coordinating research efforts so that individual projects will benefit
   from cross-communication. Potential proposers should call IGPP to be
   put in contact with the appropriate focus leader and/or visit the IGPP
   web site (http://www.igpp.lanl.gov/). While broad enough to encompass
   interdisciplinary research, these focuses are still narrow enough to
   allow for concentrated study into specific problems. A description of
   the six focus areas follows.

   The Astrophysics Focus fosters theoretical, observational, and
   instrumentation research in high-energy astrophysics problems. Of
   particular interest are multidisciplinary projects at the boundaries
   between astrophysics and nuclear physics, particle physics, condensed
   matter physics, plasma physics, or general relativity. Recent research
   supported under this focus includes projects in gamma ray astrophysics,
   space instrumentation, stellar dynamics, neutron star physics, cosmic
   rays, solar neutrinos, primordial black holes, intergalactic magnetic
   fields, active galactic nuclei, and the cosmic microwave background.

   The Earth Materials Focus includes experimental, theoretical, and
   computational research to reveal properties and processes within the
   Earth, and events in its history. Earth materials comprise minerals,
   rocks, and soils but may also include technological materials relevant
   to understanding physical properties related to the Earth. By
   measuring, monitoring, and modeling physical properties of materials at
   Earth and planetary conditions, we add data to contribute to the global
   mission of the IGPP-LANL: to promote understanding of the origin,
   structure, and evolution of the Earth, the solar system and the
   universe, and to promote research on the prediction of future changes
   as they affect human life. Recent research problems in this focus
   include fluid flow in porous and fractured media, and rock-water
   interactions and their monitoring with suitable tracers. Of particular
   interest are proposals to use the Los Alamos Neutron Scattering
   (LANSCE) facility for Earth materials studies.

   The Lithospheric Processes Focus recognizes that the lithosphere is a
   boundary layer on the convecting upper mantle, not only influencing
   convection but also recording the history of the dynamic mantle over
   time. The emphasis will be on studies directed toward understanding the
   present state of the lithosphere and fundamental processes by which the
   lithosphere is created and modified. Examples include geophysical and
   geochemical characterization of the crust and lithospheric mantle, melt
   formation and transport, magma chamber processes, fluid flow,
   hydrothermal systems, hydrology, and heat/mass transport. The focus
   will include observational approaches, but studies incorporating
   numerical techniques are specifically encouraged. Studies relating to
   the asthenosphere are appropriate as they typically involve comparison
   of geochemical and geophysical properties with the Earth's lithosphere.
   Basic research deriving from programmatic work or in support of new
   programmatic initiatives may be appropriate. Primary criterion for
   funding will include quality of collaboration and use of unique Los
   Alamos resources.

   The Planetary Atmospheres and Oceans Focus emphasizes not only on the
   atmosphere, but also on its interaction with the ocean. Of particular
   interest are proposals for studies of clouds and water vapor in the
   atmosphere, and of pollution in the ocean/atmosphere system. This focus
   includes both theoretical and/or observational studies. Los Alamos is
   beginning a concerted study of water vapor and cloud formation that is
   meant to lead to more accurate treatment of radiation feedbacks in
   global climate models. Thus we are interested in proposals that deal
   with water vapor/cloud physical processes, subgrid scale
   parameterizations of clouds, and observations to verify such studies.
   In addition, we wish to continue our studies of air pollution fluxes
   into and transport by the oceans. Finally, this focus is concerned with
   the fluid atmospheres of other bodies in the solar system as analogues
   to the Earth processes discussed above.

   The Planetary Interiors Focus supports numerical, seismic,
   paleomagnetic, and laboratory studies of the structure and fluid
   dynamics of the interiors of terrestrial and giant planets. Major
   emphasis is on the Earth’s deep interior: mantle and core dynamics.
   Studies that illuminate interior properties can include numerical
   convective models, seismic and/or electrical tomography, thermal
   fields, magnetic field generation, and variation as seen in geodynamo
   models and magnetic observations. Projects comparing models with
   geophysical observations are encouraged.

   The Space Plasma Physics Focus supports theoretical, computational, and
   observational research into the plasma environment of the Earth and
   into the processes that affect this environment, and research on the
   transport of plasma and energy from the sun through interplanetary
   space to the Earth. This includes the interaction of various plasma
   populations and the coupling of microscopic and macroscopic phenomena.
   Particular emphasis is placed on advancing our physical understanding
   of the processes that influence “space weather,” which refers to
   conditions on the sun and in the solar wind, magnetosphere, ionosphere,
   and thermosphere that can influence the performance and reliability of
   space‑borne and ground‑based technological systems and endanger human
   life.


   Relevance to Laboratory Efforts


   In keeping with new programmatic directions at Los Alamos, IGPP will be
   particularly interested in basic research proposals that support:

   •     climate, air pollution, and environmental studies;

   •     high-performance computing;

   •     material properties;

   •     migration of fluids in geologic media for water resources and
   contaminant migration;

   •     nonlinear dynamics;

   •     remote sensing; and

   •     solid Earth studies for nonproliferation, earthquake and volcanic
   hazards.


   While proposals do not have to be for specific work in these areas,
   those whose results will provide basic capabilities for these areas
   will be given special consideration. In addition, proposals that will
   make use of LANL facilities will be favorably looked upon.


   Funding


   The funding interval is October 1, 2002, through September 30, 2003;
   however, this is contingent upon the date the contract is awarded by
   the LANL Contracts Office.  Deadline for receipt of proposals is
   February 28th, 2002. Proposals received after the deadline may not be
   considered until the next review cycle. The awards typically average
   ~25k for one year.

   Student participation is one of the general criteria used in critiquing
   submitted proposals. To this end, UC waives overhead on student
   salaries in this program. Non-UC institutions are required to do the
   same alternative contribution. If required, the IGPP office will send a
   letter stating this requirement to your Contracts and Grants Office.

   Reporting Requirements and Schedule


   Progress reports summarizing the results of the previous year's work
   will be required upon completion of the year (due by the first week in
   October). In addition, a progress report must accompany proposal
   renewals each February. A final report summarizing all findings and
   results of the project will be required upon completion of the project.
   We would appreciate the PI's help in notifying IGPP of all publications
   citing IGPP support, even if these publications appear after the
   expiration of the award.



                      SPECIAL LARGE PROJECT COMPETITION

        In addition to the above projects, IGPP is soliciting proposals
   for a single large project of up to $100k. This would be for a
   particularly innovative project with a special need for larger
   funding.  Examples of such needs are: concentration of effort on
   specific topic that needs rapid advance, multi-campus/laboratory
   project, important project requiring substantial salary for Laboratory
   PI, project requiring specific funds such as laboratory apparatus,
   field trips, etc. The intent is for IGPP to support a single project
   whose results would be of considerable interest to the community at
   large and that could only be done with larger funding. The project
   would be supported for up to three years (assuming adequate yearly
   progress and available IGPP funding).  Interested proposers should
   contact the IGPP Acting Director directly prior to proposing for
   additional information and assistance. Please note that the IGPP at Los
   Alamos will fund salaries of faculty or campus professional researchers
   for work at Los Alamos but normally not for work at their respective
   home institutions.  Laboratory PIs on the other hand may be subsidized.



   Eligibility


   Any member of the academic personnel of a UC campus or of a non-UC
   university who is eligible to serve as a principal investigator for
   research performed under the auspices of that university is eligible to
   submit a research proposal as “university co-principal investigator.”
   (UNIVERSITY PI)

   Any full-time member of the technical staff of Los Alamos National
   Laboratory is eligible to submit a research proposal as a “laboratory
   co-principal investigator.”  (LABORATORY PI)


   Selection Criteria


   General Criteria

   The following general criteria will also be used in the selection
   process:

   1.   Quality of proposed research;

   2.   Relation to a primary focus area of IGPP;

   3.   Participation of undergraduate students, graduate students, and
   postdoctoral fellows;

   4.   Potential for a more extensive follow-up project eligible for
   funding from other sources; and

   5.   Support for new Laboratory programmatic directions (see above).


   Special Criteria

   Because a principal purpose of IGPP at Los Alamos is to foster
   collaborative work between faculty and students of universities,
   particularly those of UC campuses, and staff members of the Laboratory,
   proposers should emphasize the collaborative aspects of the work.
   Furthermore, they should identify specific faculty and students in the
   university system and personnel at the Laboratory who will be
   collaborating on the project as well as any special facilities to be
   used and the locations of same. Accordingly, proposals should meet one
   or more of the following special criteria:

   1.   Propose cooperative ventures jointly directed by investigators
   from a campus and Los Alamos;

   2.   Concern interdisciplinary research in which scientists from the
   universities specializing in disciplines under-represented at Los
   Alamos, are integrated into established programs in one or more of the
   divisions at Los Alamos;

   3.   Involve the use of unique resources at Los Alamos by the faculty
   and students of the universities; and

   4.   Involve the participation of Los Alamos staff in special research
   programs at the universities.


   Special consideration will be given to proposals whose students will
   spend significant time at Los Alamos. IGPP encourages the researchers
   to make use of LANL facilities; it is expected that the university PI
   will visit LANL at least once each year of a proposal award.


   Review Process


   All initial proposals undergo peer review.  Renewal proposals may or
   may not be subject to external peer review at the discretion of the
   appropriate focus leader or the Director of IGPP at Los Alamos. All
   proposals then undergo a final review by IGPP and its External Advisory
   Committee during which the earlier peer review is taken into account.


   Security Considerations


   Classified work is not supported under this program. However, access to
   certain facilities, laboratories, and offices at Los Alamos National
   Laboratory requires either a security clearance or an escort. Although
   clearances are usually not necessary, the Laboratory PI should
   determine whether they would be needed by anyone working on the
   proposed effort and should so indicate in the proposal. When a proposal
   is funded, the Laboratory PI should immediately initiate the procedures
   necessary to obtain any clearances, remembering that they often require
   as long as 14 months or more to complete.


   Renewals


   Many projects, especially those involving a student's doctoral
   research, require more than one year of funding. Proposals for renewal
   of a project need to include a progress report in Physics Today level
   format, including a list of publications, identified students, and LANL
   facilities used in the proposal. Also, discuss any proposed changes in
   the effort including new directions, participants, students, budget
   detail, etc.


   Mailing Instructions



   Submit original and 10 copies to  (If this is a renewal proposal,
   please submit original plus 5 copies):

   Center Director

   IGPP, Mail Stop C305

   Los Alamos National Laboratory

   Los Alamos, New Mexico  87545



                     For Federal Express shipments, use:


   Center Director

   IGPP, MS  C305

   Warehouse SM 30, Bikini Atoll Road

   Los Alamos National Laboratory

   Los Alamos, New Mexico  87545


   For proposals involving the University of California, send an
   information copy to:


   Professor Jean-Bernard Minster

   Systemwide Director, IGPP

   Scripps Institution of Oceanography/UCSD

   IGPP MC A025

   9500 Gilman Drive

   La Jolla, California  92093




   NOTE:   ONLY  COMPLETED  PACKAGES  WILL  BE  ACCEPTED



                         PROPOSAL CONTENTS CHECKLIST



                 1. Cover and Signature Sheets (use format provided)


                        For convenience in gathering the required
   signatures, separate “Cover and Signature Sheets” are provided for the
   University and Laboratory PIs.  Proposals will be not be accepted until
   all required original signatures have been received.  Name, title,
   address, and phone number must also be included under all signatures.
   Proposing University PIs must receive approvals from Department Chair
   or Director of campus-organized research unit, Management Service
   Officer or Fiscal/Budget Person, and Contract and Grants Officer.
   Proposing Laboratory PIs must receive approvals from Group and Division
   Leaders.



                 2. Title and Abstract Sheet


                        Give project title, principle investigators, and
   abstract.  The Abstract should include a brief statement explaining the
   objective of the proposed research, the method of approach, and how the
   “Specific” and “General Criteria” are met.



                 3. Main Body


                        Use the following outline in formatting the main
   body; please limit to approximately four  total pages:


                                    TITLE


                           PRINCIPAL INVESTIGATORS


        I.     Proposed Research


      II.     Objectives and Significance


     III.     Approach


     IV.     Proposing Team

               a.   Role of University PI

               b.   Role of Laboratory PI

               c.   Student Participation (include names of students and
   whether this is their Ph.D. topic)

               d.   Participation of Others


      V.     Resources To Be Used

               a.   Resources at Los Alamos

               b.   Resources at the University

               c.   Other Resources


   VI.        Statement of Work (paragraph)


                           A.  Tasks to be performed (at least 3)

                           B.  Milestones (at least 3)

                           C.  Deliverables (at least 3)


   VII.     Future of Project


               What is the significance of the project?  One way of
   getting at this is to answer the question, “When this project is
   finished and published, who will use the results?”  This question
   should be dealt with explicitly.


               In the section dealing with the approach, describe fairly
   comprehensively the methods by which the proposed research will be
   done.  Reviewers often comment that the research appears significant
   and yet do not recommend funding the proposal because the approach is
   weak or because they do not believe the work can be done.  How the
   research will be accomplished is as important as the research topic.
   Especially important is a discussion of how obvious difficulties will
   be overcome.


               An objective of the IGPP at Los Alamos is to provide seed
   funds, over a one- to three-year period, for research with strong
   potential for continued sponsorship by other institutions.  If the
   proposed project has such potential, that potential should be discussed
   in section entitled “Future of Project.”



                 4. Budget Summary (use format provided)



                        Indicate separately those amounts to be spent on
   campus(es) and at Los Alamos.



                 5. Supplemental Budget Information


                        Provide additional detail on the following budget
   items:

                       •   Salaries (include names, titles),

                       •   Supplies,

                       •   Travel,

                       •   Equipment, and

                       •   Other budget items.


                        Also indicate the estimated duration of the
   project and the preferred starting date, if any.  University PIs should
   include a section on current and pending support for research from
   other sources as well.



                 6. References


                Journal of Geophysical Research style is preferred.


                 7. Biographical Sketches of PIs


                        Provide information on already identified graduate
   students as well as on PIs (~1 page each).



                 8. Progress Report  (Required for Renewal Proposals Only)


                       Use the following outline:


   I.        Research Progress During Reporting Period:


   The section entitled “Research Progress During Reporting Period” should
   be 1-3 pages, including discussion of progress by participating
   students, e.g., progress in dissertation research.


   II.       Papers:

               a.      Refereed Journal Articles Published,

               b.      Refereed Journal Articles in Press or Submitted,

               c.      Refereed Journal Articles in Preparation,

               d.      Other Articles Published,

               e.      Other Articles in Press or Submitted,

               f.      Other Articles in Preparation, and

               g.      Technical Presentations.


   III.     Funding:

               In the section on funding, briefly summarize the history of
   IGPP funding for the project, steps taken during reporting period to
   obtain sponsorship from sources other than IGPP at Los Alamos, and
   progress made.



   Please click on this link to locate the forms that are required for all
   proposal submittals.

   Forms

   (Use Adobe Acrobat to open the forms)
