http://www.sustainable.doe.gov/management/financl.shtml


                          EREN Department of Energy
   Text Only | Español
   Center of Excellence for Sustainable Development
   Welcome Contact Us Site Index Newsletter


   Topics in Sustainability


   [hp_bullet.gif] Overview
                   Green Buildings
                   Green Development
                   Land Use Planning
                   Measuring Progress
                   Disaster Planning
                   Community Energy
                   Transportation
                   Sustainable Business
                   Financing
                   Rural Issues
                   Resource Efficiency
                   Air•Water•Materials

                             Funding Information
                      Last updated:    January 29, 2002

       California Solar Energy & Distributed Generation Grant Program

   The California Energy Commission issued a Notice of Availability for
   the
   Solar Energy and Distributed Generation Grant Program (announcing
   opportunity to apply for funds) on January 16, 2002, with revised
   Guidebooks, forms and instructions. California residents who are
   purchasers, sellers, owner-builders, or owner-developers of eligible
   solar energy or distributed generation systems are eligible to apply.
   Up
   to $750 is available for eligible solar energy systems. Up to $2,000 or
   10 percent of the total system cost, which ever is less, is available
   for eligible distributed generation systems. Applications will be
   processed and funding awarded on a first-come, first-serve basis and
   only until the available funding is exhausted. Applications may be
   submitted to the California Energy Commission at any time before the
   close of business on June 28, 2002, or until funds are exhausted,
   whichever comes first.

                DOE Chemical Industries of the Future Program

   U.S. DOE Chemical Industries of the Future program is seeking
   applications for cost-shared research and development of technologies
   that will reduce energy consumption, enhance economic competitiveness,
   and reduce environmental impact of the domestic chemical industry.
   Approximately $3 million is available to fund the first 12 months of
   selected research. Subject to the availability of funds, approximately
   $6 million is planned to fund the remaining years of the project. Six
   to eight awards are expected to be made. Applications due April 24,
   2002.

          American Rivers/NOAA Community-Based Restoration Program

   American Rivers, through its habitat restoration partnership with the
   NOAA Community-Based Restoration Program, provides funding for dam
   removal or fish passage improvement projects to organizations such as
   civic associations and conservation groups; state, local and Tribal
   governments; and other commercial and non-profit organizations.
   The Partnership funds hands-on, action-oriented projects in the
   Northeast, Mid-Atlantic, and California that have clear and
   identifiable
   benefits to anadromous fish populations and restoration of riverine
   habitat that support anadromous species. The average restoration grant
   falls within the range of $5,000 to $25,000. Proposals must be
   postmarked by April 1, 2002 to fall within the current funding cycle.

                      Boulder Neighborhood Mini-Grants

   The city of Boulder, Colorado, offers grants up to $3,000 to small
   groups of neighbors or neighborhood organizations for
   community-building projects and up to $400 for neighborhood events that
   promote neighborhood communication and that enable neighbors to get to
   know one another. Mini-grant applications are due April 30, 2002.

               EPA SBIR Technologies for Water Quality Issues

   EPA's Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) Program is issuing a
   special solicitation for FY2002, opening January 22, 2002. This special
   solicitation covers Technologies For Stormwater, CSOs And Arsenic In
   Drinking Water (Subtopics: Control of Stormwater Runoff and Combined
   Sewer Overflows (CSOs), In-Situ Treatment of Urban Sediments,
   Rehabilitation of Urban Infrastructure and Treatment of Arsenic in
   Drinking Water.) Phase I contracts will be awarded for $100,000 over 10
   months. This solicitation closes March 21, 2002.

                   Forest Products Industry of the Future

   The American Forest and Paper Association, in cooperation with the U.S.
   Department of Energy, request proposals for cost shared RD&D
   which will reduce energy consumption, enhance economic competitiveness,
   and reduce environmental impacts of the Forest Products Industry.
   Research priorities include sustainable forestry, gasification, fiber
   modification and VOC and HAP emission technology areas. Partnerships
   between industry, universities, and National Labs encouraged. Approx.
   $2 million in Federal funds expected to be available for 1st yr.
   funding, 3 awards anticipated. Responses are due 4/15/02. For more
   info, contact Carol Van Lente, DOE, at vanlencl@id.doe.gov

              EPA's Region 2 Livable Communities Grant Program

   The US Environmental Protection Agency Region 2 (New York,
   New Jersey, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands) is seeking proposals
   that promote livable communities throughout the region. Projects should
   ensure: 1) the long-term health of ecosystems and humans; 2) economic
   vitality; and 3) community well-being. Proposals should propose
   innovative solutions to specific urban or rural environmental problems
   related to air and water quality, toxic substances, and/or solid waste
   management. Proposals must be postmarked by Tuesday, February 19, 2002
   to be considered for funding. For more information, you may contact
   Rabi Kieber at (212) 637- 4448 or at kieber.rabi@epa.gov.

                       Metro Greenways Planning Grants

   The Metro Greenways Planning Grants program administered by Minnesota
   DNR will provide matching funds of up to $30,000 for local units of
   government and other implementing agencies to promote the development
   of a regional network of natural areas, parks, wildlife habitat and
   other open spaces connected by greenways. All entities with the
   authority to implement local plans are eligible, including: cities,
   townships,
   counties, watershed districts, watershed management organizations, soil
   and water conservation districts, and special park and conservation
   districts. Proposal submission deadline is January 25, 2002.

                          DOE's NICE3 Grant Program

   The U.S. Department of Energy sponsors the National Industrial
   Competitiveness through Energy, Environment, and Economics(NICE3) grant
   program that provides funding to state and industry partnerships (large
   and small business) for projects that develop and demonstrate advances
   in energy efficiency and clean production technologies. Industry
   applicants must submit project proposals through a state energy,
   pollution prevention, or business development office. State and
   Industry partnerships are eligible to receive a one-time grant of up to
   $525,000. Non-federal cost share must be at least 50% of the total cost
   of the project. The FY02 NICE3 Pre-Proposals (optional) are now being
   accepted through 3/1/02. The NICE3 Solicitation opens 4/1/02
   and will close 6/30/02.

                     Great Lakes National Program Grants

   The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's Great Lakes National Program
   Office (GLNPO) is inviting submissions of Proposals for innovative
   projects furthering protection and clean up of the Great Lakes
   ecosystem. A total of $2.9 million to is planned to be awarded in the
   summer and fall of FY 2002 for Great Lakes projects pertaining to:
   Contaminated Sediments; Pollution Prevention and Reduction; Ecological
   (Habitat) Protection and Restoration; Invasive Species; Habitat
   Indicator Development; and Strategic or Emerging Issues. The deadline
   for proposals is February 15, 2002.

     Partnerships to Address Ethical Challenges in Environmental Health

   National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences requests
   applications that promote public understanding of the social, ethical,
   and legal implications of conducting environmental health research
   involving human subjects in areas such as gene-environment interactions
   (interplay between genetics and the environment), environmental health
   hazards, and disease
   susceptibility. Projects should 1) assess a community's level of
   knowledge regarding health impacts of hazardous environmental
   exposures; 2) develop, implement, and evaluate educational materials
   and programs that enhance public awareness and understanding of ethical
   issues and challenges related to conducting environmental health
   research; and 3) establish an on-going and long-term dialog between
   scientists and community members on ethical issues related to
   environmental health science. Letters of Intent are due February 22,
   2002, and applications must be submitted by March 25, 2002.

       Department of Transportation Small Business Innovation Research

   The U.S. Department of Transportation announces its intent to request
   proposals for the FY02 Small Business Innovation Research Program. The
   purpose of this solicitation is to invite small businesses with their
   valuable resources and creative capabilities to submit innovative
   research proposals that address high priority requirements of the U.S.
   Department of Transportation. The solicitation is expected to open on
   or about 2/15/02 and close 5/1/02. For more information, contact Mary
   Doherty, DOT, at (617) 494-2669.

                    State Energy Program Special Projects

   The U.S. Department of Energy announces the availability of FY02
   Special Projects funding under the State Energy Program (SEP). Eligible
   applicants are limited to State or Territorial Energy Offices or other
   lead agencies responsible for administering the State Energy Program,
   however, partnerships are encouraged. Approx. $18.5 million expected to
   be available. Areas of interest include energy efficiency and renewable
   energy projects in the transportation, buildings, federal, industrial,
   and power sectors. Applications are due March 15, 2002.

         Alaska Conservation Foundation Sustainable Community Grants

   In 1997, with a grant from the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation,
   Alaska Conservation Foundation established the Sustainable Community
   Development Grant Program. Project support grants range from
   $8,000-$15,000 over one year. Non-profit organizations, local
   governments, associations, individuals, or others may apply. However,
   applicants must demonstrate that their work is being conducted on
   behalf of a community. Specifically, the Sustainable Community
   Development Program is interested in funding projects that link quality
   of life with a healthy economy based on the sustainable use of natural
   resources, such as community/regional planning, improving quality of
   life as an impetus for economic growth, and generating new employment
   through sustainable use of natural resources. For 2002, letters of
   inquiry should be received at ACF no later than February 11.

            Vermont Sustainable Jobs Fund Business Network Grants

   VSJF is accepting applications for its Winter 2002 grant cycle of
   Business Network Grants. Grants typically range from $5,000 to $10,000.
   Groups of businesses seeking support for innovative activities that
   will provide or enhance quality jobs in organizations which protect
   community and environmental resources may submit applications by
   January 15, 2002.

                      Technology Opportunities Program

   The National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA)
   of the Department of Commerce is accepting applications for the
   Technology Opportunities Program (TOP) 2002 funding round. The TOP
   program extends deployment of high-speed networks to underserved
   communities, through matching grants to state, local, and tribal
   governments and non-profit entities that demonstrate innovative uses of
   digital network technologies. TOP projects address specific challenges
   and realize opportunities for change in such areas as lifelong
   learning, community and economic development, government and public
   services, safety, health, culture, and the arts. NTIA expects to have
   approximately $12.5 million available for new grants. An applicant may
   request up to
   $750,000 in funds. Application deadline is March 21, 2002.

                       Federal Business Opportunities

   As of January 4, 2002, the U.S. Department of Commerce will cease
   publishing the Commerce Business Daily (CBD). Beginning on January 5,
   2002, Federal Business Opportunities (FBO), also known as FedBizOpps,
   will become the official source for all Federal government contracting
   opportunities and awards over $25,000.

                       DOE Inventions and Innovations

   The U.S. Department of Energy requests proposals for the Inventions and
   Innovation (I&I) Program which provides financial and technical
   assistance to encourage the innovation and commercialization energy
   efficiency, renewable energy or pollution prevention related inventions
   in the industrial sector. Focus industries include Agriculture
   (bio-based products), Aluminum, Chemicals, Forest Products, Glass,
   Metal Casting,
   Mining, Petroleum, and Steel industries. A total of $2.1 million is
   expected to be available, with $40,000 to $200,000 per project. Cost
   share encouraged but not required. Proposals due 3/04/02. For more
   information, Margo Gorin at margo_gorin@nrel.gov.

                        EPA Smart Growth Funding Page

   The Environmental Protection Agency recently developed a guide of
   funding resources to assist local and state governments, communities,
   and non-governmental organizations who are addressing the varied
   aspects of smart growth. The page includes funding sources for general
   smart growth issues, brownfields, transportation options, open space
   protection and rural/Native American communities.

               Peter F. Drucker Award for Nonprofit Innovation

   The Drucker Award for Nonprofit Innovation is given each year to a
   nonprofit organization that has made a difference in the lives of the
   people it serves. The award is accompanied by a prize of $25K and a
   short video documentary of the winning project or program. To be
   considered, the programs must further the mission of the organization;
   have specific and measurable outcomes; exemplify innovation by
   demonstrating a "new dimension" of performance; have made a difference
   in the lives of the people they serve; and serve as a model that can be
   replicated or adapted by other organizations. Responses are due June 7,
   2002.

                 Environmental Justice Small Grants Program

   The Environmental Protection Agency requests proposals for the FY02
   Environmental Justice Small Grants Program. The purpose of this grant
   program is to provide financial assistance to eligible community groups
   and federally recognized tribal governments that are working on or plan
   to carry out projects to address environmental justice issues. Areas of
   particular interest include: 1) Fish consumption, water quality, and
   environmental justice; and 2) Innovative technologies for pollution
   prevention. $1.5 million expected to be available. For more info,
   contact Sheila Lewis, EPA, at (202) 564-0152. Applications are due
   February 21, 2002.

             EPA Solicits Watershed Classification Grant Proposals

   The Environmental Protection Agency seeks proposals for the development
   of regionalized watershed classification schemes that can be used
   within the context of a national framework for determining ecosystem
   vulnerability, designing monitoring systems, and identifying watershed
   restoration opportunities. Regionalized classification schemes should
   be based on a strong conceptual understanding of watershed processes,
   as well as illustrating quantitative linkages among watershed
   attributes, loadings, and ecological responses. EPA anticipates funding
   approximately five grants under this RFA. The projected award range is
   $150,000 to $300,000 per year ($450,000-$900,000 per grant) total costs
   for up to 3 years, depending on whether new field data is collected.
   Academic and not-for-profit institutions located in the U.S., and state
   or local governments, are eligible. Proposals are due January 30, 2002.

       DOE RFP for National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) Compliance

   The U.S. Department of Energy announces its intent to request proposals
   for technical, analytical, and administrative support for the Office of
   National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) Policy and Compliance. Tasks
   would address a wide range of Departmental activities including but not
   limited to: Energy efficiency and renewable energy, oil and gas
   projects, major power line construction, hydropower projects, and clean
   coal technology. The RFP is expected to open on or about 11/9/01. For
   more info, contact Lenita Ahmadi, DOE, at (202) 287-1467.

                         EPA Renewable Power Request
                               for Information

   The Environmental Protection Agency in Houston, TX has issued a request
   for information (RFI) from renewable power suppliers regarding
   potential renewable power or renewable energy credits purchase options
   under a restructured electricity market. This RFI also serves to give
   renewable power suppliers advance notice of EPA's possible interest in
   purchasing renewable power and should allow them sufficient time to
   fulfill certification and other related requirements. Written responses
   due 11/9/01. For more info, contact Chandra Shah, NREL, at (303)
   384-7557.

           California Rebate and Demand Reduction Program Database

   California's Consumer Energy Center provides a searchable database of
   rebates and other incentive programs that apply to energy efficiency
   and renewable energy. Agricultural, industrial and residential energy
   users are among the groups served by the database. Rebates are
   searchable by type and source. The database lists and describes rebate
   and incentive programs for a wide variety of energy efficiency and
   renewable energy measures, such as thermostats, solar energy,
   appliances and wind energy.

     Remedial Action Grants Available to Local Governments in Washington
                                    State

   When local governments have to clean up contaminated sites, the state
   of Washington, through the Department of Ecology, offers remedial
   action grants to lessen the effect of the cleanup costs to ratepayers
   and taxpayers. These grants encourage and expedite cleanup activity by
   local governments. In Fiscal Year 2001, Ecology awarded $12,517,166 in
   new remedial action grants and amendments to existing grants to local
   governments. There is no set application period for remedial action
   grants; however, the Department should receive applications within 60
   days of the effective date of the order or decree. For eligibility
   requirements or an application form, please call Diane Singer at (360)
   407-6062.

                          Ben & Jerry's Foundation

   Ben & Jerry's Foundation has as its mission "to make the world a better
   place by empowering Ben & Jerry's employees to use available resources
   to support and encourage organizations that are working towards
   eliminating the underlying causes of environmental and social
   problems." All grants are decided by a team of employees and usually
   support organizations with annual budgets less than $250,000. Three
   areas are targeted for awards: environmental justice, grassroots
   efforts, and projects seeking to effect social change. Letters of
   interest and cover pages may be submitted anytime (or at least ten
   weeks prior to the trimester deadline). Small Grants applicants (less
   than $1,000) can submit a letter of interest alone.

      Funding Available for Water Related Construction in South Dakota

   The Consolidated Water Facilities Construction Program was established
   to provide grants and loans for water related projects. In order to be
   eligible for this program, a project must be sponsored by one of the
   following entities: a special purpose district that has the authority
   to construct a water resources project; a state agency or general
   purpose government such as a municipality, county, or township; a
   federally recognized Indian tribe; or a non-profit corporation.
   Applications must be received on or before the first day of February,
   May, August, and November. For more information, contact the Department
   of Environment and Natural Resources at (605) 773-4216 or via email at
   Dave.Ryan@state.sd.us.

                         James Ford Bell Foundation

   The James Ford Bell Foundation is a private grant making organization.
   A high priority is given to projects with historical connections to the
   Bell Family, including projects that address environmental preservation
   and education as well as projects that address the problems of
   over-population and the related environmental impact. The Trustees
   currently meet two times each year-spring and fall. Deadlines will be
   set as part of the solicitation process.

                       U.S. & Mexico Border EPA Grants

   The Environmental Protection Agency invites proposals for
   conservation-oriented social and economic development projects that
   emphasize protection and sustainable use of resources along the U.S.-
   Mexico border. Projects include but are not limited to research,
   experiments, training, and demonstrations, related to clean water and
   clean air. Grants are not to exceed $25,000 and require a five percent
   match. For more info, contact Alfredo Coy, EPA, at (214) 665-2206.

                           The Hewlett Foundation

   The Hewlett Foundation's broad purpose is to promote the well-being of
   mankind by supporting selected activities of a charitable nature, as
   well as organizations or institutions engaged in such activities. Areas
   of special interest to the Foundation include conflict resolution,
   education, environment, family and community development, population,
   and U.S.-Latin American relations. A proportion of disbursable fund has
   been earmarked for projects in the San Francisco Bay Area. Grants must
   be approved by the Board of Directors, which meets quarterly; however,
   the most efficient means of initial contact with the Foundation is a
   letter of inquiry.

                      Schools Lighting Grant Initiative
                              in South Carolina

   To improve the quality of the learning environment and to make schools
   more energy efficient, the South Carolina Energy Office (SCEO) has
   developed the Schools Lighting Grant Initiative. With lighting
   retrofits being the easiest and least expensive first step to energy
   efficiency, the SCEO encourages schools to give priority consideration
   to lighting upgrades for their facilities. The Schools Initiative makes
   grants of up to $75,000 available to South Carolina's 28 most
   financially challenged districts. For more information about the
   Initiative, contact Tom Hudkins of the South Carolina Energy Office at
   (800) 851-8899 or (803) 737-8285.

               DOE Small Business Innovation and Research RFP

   The U.S. Department of Energy announces its intent to request
   applications for the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) and
   Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) Programs. The request for
   proposals is expected to open on or about 10/15/01 and close 1/15/02.
   Small businesses (500 employees or less) are invited to apply. Areas of
   interest but are not limited to: Bioproducts and Bioenergy Research,
   Oil and Gas Technologies, Novel Approaches to Thin-Film Solar Cells,
   Battery Technology for Electric and Hybrid Vehicles, Integrated Systems
   for Energy-Efficient Space Conditioning, Improved Blades, Towers, and
   Power Electronics Technology for Wind Turbines, Advanced, and Carbon
   Cycle Measurements of the Atmosphere and the Biosphere. Approximately
   200 SBIR and 15 STTR agreements are expected, with up to $100,000
   available per award for Phase I. For more info, contact Julie Scott,
   DOE, at 301-903-0569.

         Alameda County Source Reduction and Recycling Board Grants

   The Alameda County, California, Source Reduction and Recycling Board is
   soliciting grant proposals from nonprofit organizations for innovative
   projects that will increase involvement in recycling and decrease the
   amount of waste sent to landfills. The grant cycle began September 15,
   2001, and is open-ended until the $700,000 in available funds have been
   disbursed. Eligible projects are source reduction recycling, public
   education, or recycled product procurement projects that will result in
   a measurable and sustained decrease in landfilled materials in Alameda
   County.

                     The Fred Gellert Family Foundation

   The Fred Gellert Family Foundation supports a wide range of interests,
   including education, environment, health, and social service. With the
   exception of environmental programs, grants are generally limited to
   California's San Francisco, San Mateo, and Marin Counties. The
   Foundation supports environmental projects that have a large-scale
   visions and integrated "green plan" strategies for the protection,
   restoration, and sustainable management of ecosystems, with an emphasis
   on consensus building. Proposals should be submitted during the
   following two time frames: December 1 to February 1 and June 1 to
   August 1; grants are awarded in April and November. For details, email
   fgff@firstworld.net.

                          The Flintridge Foundation

   The mission of the Flintridge Foundation is "to award grants that will
   help us understand our universe and preserve our biological and
   cultural heritage. [The Foundation] seeks energetic nonprofit
   organizations committed to similar goals and whose work reveals
   imagination, dedication, and clear focus on the problems they address."
   Currently, the Foundation awards grants in several areas, including
   conservation and community services. There is no deadline for
   application. For more information, e-mail Jack@JLMoseleyCo.com.

                    The Educational Foundation of America

   The Educational Foundation of America strives to carry out the
   principles its founder, Richard Ettinger. Areas of interest include,
   but are not limited to, the environment, the crisis of human
   overpopulation and reproductive freedom, Native Americans, arts,
   education, medicine and human services. The Foundation welcomes letters
   of inquiry at any time. There are no deadlines.

                       The Jennifer Altman Foundation

   The Jennifer Altman Foundation is a private foundation dedicated to the
   vision of a socially just and ecologically sustainable future through
   program interests in environmental health and mind-body health. Grants
   vary in size from $500 to $50,000 or more, with the majority of grants
   ranging from $1,500 to $20,000. The Foundation does not have deadlines
   and proposals are reviewed as they are received.

                         EPA Wetlands FY2002 Grants

   The Wetland Program Development Grants provide eligible applicants an
   opportunity to conduct projects that promote the coordination and
   acceleration of research, investigations, experiments, training,
   demonstrations, surveys, and studies relating to the causes, effects,
   extent, prevention, reduction, and elimination of water pollution.
   Priority will be given to funding projects that address the three
   priority areas identified by EPA for FY02: Developing a comprehensive
   monitoring and assessment program; improving the effectiveness of
   compensatory mitigation; and refining the protection of vulnerable
   wetlands and aquatic resources. This year, in addition to States,
   tribes, local governments, interstate associations, and intertribal
   consortia, eligibility is broadened to include national non-profit,
   non-governmental organizations. The award recipient is required to
   provide a 25% funding match. Proposal deadlines differ by EPA region,
   ranging from October 31, 2001 to January 31, 2002.

                         The Abelard Foundation West

   The Abelard Foundation West is committed to supporting social change
   organizations that reflect, through membership or grassroots
   participation, the communities in which they are based. It supports
   programs that expand community control over economic, social and
   environmental decisions affecting the community's well-being. It
   encourages development of a strong, informed voice on public policy
   issues. Abelard offers general support grants in the $6,000 - $12,000
   range. Application deadlines for proposals are January 15th and June
   15th for spring and fall grantmaking meetings.

            NEA Announces Funding for New Public Works Initiative

   The National Endowment for the Arts New Public Works Initiative is
   intended to develop the highest quality of design in the public realm
   through the sponsorship of national design competitions. It is targeted
   to the disciplines of architecture, landscape architecture, urban
   planning, and industrial design. The multi-year New Public Works
   initiative will emphasize school design in its next round, to stimulate
   greater public awareness of the important role design can play in
   education. The program will be expanded to award up to $1.25 million
   for as many as 20 projects in 2002. New Public Works will provide up to
   $75,000 each to as many as 10 school design projects, in addition to 10
   general projects that will receive up to $50,000 each. The deadline for
   letters of interest is January 11, 2002.

   Back to Top

   Recently Archived Funding Opportunities



                            HOME | EREN | SEARCH
