http://www.pueblo.gsa.gov/pressroom.htm

                                  Wednesday
                              January 30, 2002


                                   Topics
   Cars -- Buying, Selling, Car Maintenance, Insurance
   Children -- Learning, Parenting
   Computers -- Buying, Getting On-line
   Education -- School Loans, Planning for College, Alternative Ways to
   Earn a Degree
   Employment -- Tips on finding a job, Occupation information, Workplace
   rights, Pensions
   Federal Programs -- Social Security, Medicare, Veteran's Benefits,
   Buying Government Property
   Food -- Nutrition for better health, Safe food handling and preparation
   Health -- Drugs and Health Aids, Dieting and Nutrition, Medical
   Problems
   Housing -- Financing and Sales, Home Maintenance
   Money -- Credit, Saving, Investing, Retirement Planning, Protecting
   your money
   Small Business -- Starting a Business, Small Business Administration,
   Patents and Copyrights
   Travel -- Foreign Travel Requirements, National Parks, Travel Advice,
   Flying rights and advice
   And more... -- Having trouble finding something? Check here or go to
   our search!

                                  Resources
   Consumer Action Website -- Tips, advice, listings of what to do and who
   to call with a consumer problem
   Image of a button linking to the National Contact Center
   Image of a button linking to FirstGov for Kids
   Recalls -- Federal and Private Sector Recalls on Products
   Scams and Frauds -- A listing of the latest scams and recalls announced
   by Federal Agencies and Consumer Groups

   Subscribe to FCIC
    news and media
    e-mail updates!

   Image linking to FirstGov "Your first click to the U.S. Government"




                              FCIC Home Page
   Search Page In The News Page Press Room Page FAQ Page Shop Site Links
   Page About Us Page Fun Stuff
   Animated promotion image
                           [transbar.gif]

                              Press Room
   Featuring a FCIC publication in your next story? Writing about a
   consumer topic? Here's the information you need.
                           [transbar.gif]

   Newspaper boy graphic Feature Releases
   Extra Extra! read all about FCIC's latest New for Consumers Releases.
   [transbar.gif]
   Multi-Media Gallery
   We've got loads of TV ads, print ads and catalog covers from the past
   20 years. Take a walk down memory lane with us. If you're really
   impressed, you can request a copy of our current TV PSA to air on your
   station by either e-mailing the Media Staff or calling 202-501-1794.
   Want to feature our print PSA in your publication? We can help you
   there too--just e-mail or call.
   [transbar.gif]
   Free Review Copies of Publications
   Want to know what your readers will receive if they order a publication
   from FCIC? If you want to tell your readers about one of our
   publications in a future story, the FCIC Media Staff will be happy to
   send you a free review copy. Just e-mail us the titles you are
   interested in or call 202-501-1794 and ask to speak to our Media Staff.
   [transbar.gif]
   FCIC in the News
   You may not be interested but our mommies like to see (and show their
   friends) just how popular we are. So we have collected clippings from
   various media outlets who have mentioned FCIC.
   [transbar.gif]
   FCIC Media E-Mail List
   Sign up here to receive our feature releases and special updates
   electronically.
   [transbar.gif]
   On-line Media Kit for the Consumer Action Handbook.
   [transbar.gif]
   Broadcaster graphic Broadcast Scripts
   This just in! FCIC is making available all of their Consumer highlights
   written and timed for broadcast. Oh, can you feel the excitement?
   [transbar.gif]
   Linking to FCIC
   Want to add us to your web site with minimal amount of effort? Heck,
   we've done most of the work for you. Borrow our banners, stars, and
   text to add us to your site in a snap.
   [transbar.gif]
   Fortune teller graphic Media Staff
   Questions? We know all, see all, and tell all, so e-mail us and you
   will get an answer. It may not be the right answer, but you will get an
   answer.
   space
   Site Map - Text Version -  Privacy Policy - Security Statement
   space

   This service is provided by the Federal Consumer Information Center of
     the U.S. General Services Administration. If you have a comment or
                question, e-mail us at catalog.pueblo@gsa.gov
     [gsa_logo.gif]

   [invisible.gif]
