http://agriculture.house.gov/farmbill.htm

      [Logo: Ag Committee home page link]


                                        Farm Bill status as of today,

           Approved in an evenly bipartisan vote of the U.S. House of
   Representatives by a two to one margin: 291 to 120 October 5, 2001

                 Pending in U.S. Senate - which reconvened January 23

                                                         Quick Links:
                                           Summary of House Farm Bill
                            (accessibility website for pdf documents)
                   Text: House Farm Bill, "Farm Security Act of 2001"
                                       (free download of pdf program)

   President's Farm Budget Commitment Solid

   Ag Chairman Combest hails Bush support for ten-year $73.5 billion
   increase
   "President Bush has made an unquestionable commitment for producers,
   and the Senate must act to deliver a farm bill as soon as senators
   return in January."
   -- House Agriculture Committee Chairman Larry Combest statement after
   releasing a December 21 letter from the President's Office of
   Management and Budget Director Mitch Daniels.
   See the letter to Agriculture Chairman Combest from OMB Director Mitch
   Daniels

   President Bush has urged Congress to send him a good farm bill

   "The Farm Security Act of 2001" [August 2, 2001 Farm Security Act
   report cover]
   Flexibility Countercyclical Support Conservation

   House Agriculture Committee Chairman Larry Combest continues the farm
   bill conversation that began nearly two years ago in rural communities
   throughout the nation.

   (free download of the windows media player is available.
   Text description of the comments recorded November 16, 2001 are also
   accessible.) [Photo: Chairman Combest listens to reporter's question]
     * a new farm bill in place should greatly enhance producers' ability
       to get credit
       (:25 second video clip -- choose based on whether you have a fast
       connection or slower dialup)
     * Senate effort to meet the ten-year $73.5 billion budget requirement
       focuses the greatest amount of funding on the first five years --
       leaving open the question of how much money is available for the
       five years after that for the farm bill budget.
       (:19 second video clip -- choose based on whether you have a fast
       connection or slower dialup)
     * broad-based support for the House "Farm Security Act" approach
       carries weight in any comparison with the Senate farm bill
       (:39 second video clip -- choose based on whether you have a fast
       connection or slower dialup)

   Independent Commentary...
   Dec. 21 - Inside Washington Today: Winners and losers in farm bill
   debate
   By Jim Wiesemeyer, via a special arrangement with Sparks Companies,
   Inc.

   Frustration prevails thus far in the aftermath of the Senate's
   inability to conclude a final vote on a new omnibus farm bill. I've
   been asked by many readers to assess the so-called "winners" and
   "losers" of the farm bill debate thus far.

   House Ag Committee Chairman Larry Combest (R-Texas): Mr. Combest was
   the first one to accurately predict and act on the impact that
   declining U.S. government revenue -- and eventual budget deficits --
   would have on the farm bill debate. He worked with House Budget
   Committee Chairman Jim Nussle (R-Iowa), another "winner," to get an
   additional $73.5 billion in farm bill spending above the around $97
   billion 10-year baseline.

   Delivering a bipartisan farm bill... Combest is also a winner because
   he surprised some veteran farm bill watchers when he delivered a farm
   bill proposal out of his Ag Committee and got it passed in a bipartisan
   vote on the House floor on Oct. 5 -- a time frame that virtually
   shocked most long-time farm bill observers. And he did it despite a
   strongly worded Statement of Administration Policy (SAP) position
   against the House farm bill.
   Rep. Charlie Stenholm (D-Texas) is a winner because unlike the Senate
   Ag Committee, the chairman and ranking member of the Ag panel
   successfully cleared a bipartisan farm bill commodity title out of the
   Committee and that made the vote on the House floor a lot easier than
   if a partisan bill was approved, as was the case in the Senate and its
   disastrous floor developments.
   © 2001 AgWeb.com. All Rights Reserved.

   Call for Senate action:
   Noting Senators' pessimism over finalizing the farm bill in 2001, House
   Ag Chairman Combest suggested a timely option ... and praised the
   response by Arkansas' Senator Tim Hutchinson.

   House Ag Chairman Combest and Ranking Minority Member Charlie Stenholm
   have been supportive of timely action -- beginning when the Senate Ag
   Committee set out to write its farm bill version November 6, 2001.

   Background:
   The House Farm Bill was introduced in the Senate in a bipartisan manner
   November 9th

   One month previously, the House Agriculture Committee's 2001 Farm Bill,
   "The Farm Security Act," (H.R. 2646) was approved on Friday, October 5,
   2001 in a 291 to 120 vote by the U.S. House of Representatives.

   The House had defeated an earlier attempt to move crop support away
   from producers.

   Review the House of Representatives debate and the votes:
     * during the first day of debate on Wednesday
     * during the second day of debate on Thursday
     * during the final day of vote on final passage Friday

   The House Agriculture Committee had completed writing the bill with
   voice vote on July 27, 2001. The Committee's farm bill proposal was
   introduced by Larry Combest, Chairman of the House Agriculture
   Committee with Ranking Minority Member Charlie Stenholm.

   Preparation by the Ag Committee...
   Farm Policy hearings in rural communities (Spring 2000)

   Details and specific proposals from farm groups (February through May
   2001)


      Search Members Schedule Subcommittees Hearings News Understanding
            Agricultural Terms Rules Oversight Plan Archives Home
