http://www.ocio.usda.gov/revfy2001apr.doc

   OFFICE OF THE CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER FY 2000 ANNUAL PROGRAM
   PERFORMANCE REPORT Secretary's Memorandum 1030, pursuant to the Clinger
   Cohen Act of 1996, established the Office of the Chief Information
   Officer (OCIO). The OCIO has primary responsibility for supervision and
   coordination within the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) of the
   design, acquisition, maintenance, use, and disposal of information
   technology by USDA agencies. The mission of the OCIO is to
   strategically acquire and use information and technology resources to
   improve the quality, timeliness, and cost effectiveness of USDA service
   delivery to its customers. OCIO also has activities that are funded
   through the USDA Working Capital Fund (WCF). These activities, or cost
   centers, operate using a cost recovery method for services rendered.
   The Goals and Objectives identified in the Revised 2000 and FY 2001
   Annual Performance Plan are listed below. Each OCIO Program Activity
   follows with a description of the measurable indicators to support a
   specific Goal/Objective. The OCIO developed its new strategic plan for
   FY 2000-2005. The new plan reflects a new mission, vision and
   comprehensive objectives based on technological changes and
   organizational priorities. Only Federal employees were involved in the
   preparation of this report. OCIO PERFORMANCE SUMMARY Strategic Goal/
   Management Initiative FY 2000 Performance Goals Performance 1999 Actual
   2000 Target 2000 Goal 1: Ensure decisions regarding the selection and
   deployment of information technology are based on USDA needs. Establish
   USDA policy on IT management using the Capital Planning and Investment
   Control (CPIC) methodology: Number of agency IT management reviews
   performed 2 6 7 Develop and implement USDA Architecture: Percent of
   agencies using ISTA 50 35 80 Infuse Government and electronic data
   interchange technologies into business processes where applicable:
   Number of agencies with electronic forms and automated directives
   systems Number of agencies using the Internet for program delivery,
   e.g. forms, loan balances N/A 5 3 10 14 14 Ensure that the Service
   Center technology improvements are driven by business needs and support
   re-engineered business processes: Number of Service Center Oversight
   implementation progress and other reviews conducted Number of Service
   Center Implementation IV&Vs conducted 9 2 10 3 N/A N/A Goal 2: Develop
   Department-wide information and technical infrastructures that will
   improve service delivery through more effective information systems and
   data management. Ensure all USDA agency mission critical information
   systems are Year 2000 compliant and operational: Percent Y2K awareness
   Percent Y2K assessment Percent Y2K renovation Percent Y2K validation
   Percent Y2K implementation 100 100 100 90 90 100 100 100 100 100 100
   100 100 100 100 Meet the mandated requirements of the President's
   Commission on Critical Infrastructure Protection (PCCIP) by developing
   a plan to protect USDA's critical infrastructures and putting the
   processes/mechanisms in place to implement the plan and update the plan
   on a 2-year cycle Establish a Central Cyber Security Office: Percent of
   staff on-board Establish a Departmental-level Risk Management Program:
   Percent of agencies identifying critical assets and assess them for
   vulnerabilities Develop an USDA Information and Telecommunications
   Security Architecture: Percent completion of security architecture
   Percent of agencies transitioned to FTS 2001 Long Distance service
   provider. Establish an USDA Enterprise Network: Develop a strategic
   plan Percent USDA Enterprise Network implemented 0 10 0 5 N/A N/A 25 25
   0 50 yes 5 33 20 0 85 yes 5 Goal 3: Be a leading innovative information
   technology services organization, experienced in providing quality and
   cost-effective services for centralized and distributed computing, and
   applications support. These activities are financed through the
   Departmental Working Capital Fund (WCF). Support the USDA Information
   Systems Technology Architecture Percent of OCIO computing platforms
   that have a Web Interface Improve security of information processing
   resources 70 70 90 7 90 7 Develop new services and increase our
   customer base for existing services. Percent increase of new business
   based on new and existing services 5 5 8 Improve customer service
   quality: Percent Web Access to customer Percent Home Page is
   implemented Percent of employees that received training 100 90 80 100
   95 85 100 95 100 Management Initiative 1: Implement a professional
   development strategy to ensure that USDA's personnel possess the skills
   necessary to meet the challenges of effectively delivering programs and
   services with information technology Increase agency
   acceptance/adoption of the CIO Councils IT core competencies Increase
   percent of executives/senior managers who integrate IT core
   competencies into their IT workforce planning Increase percent of USDA
   professional development Strategy implementation plan N/A N/A N/A 20 20
   20 0 0 30 Management Initiative 2: Continually improve the quality and
   effectiveness of the OCIO workforce and ensure Civil Rights of all
   Increase employee morale Percent of employees indicating medium to high
   morale Percent decrease in formal and informal complaints N/A N/A 50 50
   75 80 Provide civil rights training for all employees Percent employees
   trained in civil rights 100 100 100 Provide conflict management
   training for all employees Percent of employees trained in conflict
   management 15 50 100 Goal 1: Ensure decisions regarding the selection
   and deployment of information technology are based on USDA business
   needs. Objective 1.1: Use a decision making process within USDA that
   makes the program and IT officials responsible for IT investments.
   Objective 1.2: Establish a standard Capital Planning and Investment
   Control (CPIC) Program in USDA to ensure IT investments are made in
   direct support of business objectives, managed prudently. Key
   Performance Goal Establish USDA policy on IT management using the CPIC
   methodology. Number of agency IT management reviews performed Target: 6
   Actual: 7 2000 Data: Agency IT management reviews are performed at the
   request of, and/or under the leadership of OCIO. The data are examined
   in the reviews are gathered through several means: OCIO staff review of
   agency IT budget requests; agencies' use of the Information Technology
   Investment Portfolio System (I-TIPS) in managing their portfolios and
   reporting budgetary and performance information for investments; and
   agency interviews of key personnel. I-TIPS is a Federal-wide tool for
   managing capital investments. During FY 2000, all USDA agencies used
   I-TIPS to manage their IT investment portfolios, and used some level of
   Capital Planning tenets in the management of these portfolios. Analysis
   of Results: OCIO met the performance goal to establish USDA policy for
   using CPIC. OCIO exhibited strong leadership by expanding and improving
   the process for managing IT assets. This includes providing expanded
   guidance for the IT budget planning and review processes, expanding the
   use of I-TIPS, and utilizing the CPIC evaluation, scoring and ranking
   systems for all major USDA IT investments for budget years 2001 and
   2002. Through reviews, OCIO can articulate/clarify policy and assure
   compliance. The reviews also enable OCIO to gather ``lessons learned''
   and share them with other agencies as well as indicate where policy
   needs to be revised. OCIO worked with the agencies to improve their
   major system business case documentation. OCIO also provided written
   evaluations of this documentation and staff support to, and
   participated in, the Deputies Capital Planning Work Group (DCPWG) and
   the Executive Information Technology Investment Review Board (EITIRB).
   The DCPWG scored and ranked the systems and the EITIRB approved the
   investment decisions. OCIO also exhibited strong leadership by
   participating in the government-wide capital planning efforts. The USDA
   CIO was the co-chair of the CIO Council's Capital Planning and IT
   Management Committee. The CIO's office also co-chaired the I-TIPS
   Change Management Committee. By participating on these committees, OCIO
   is able to learn best practices from other Departments and share I-Tips
   development cost. Current Fiscal Year Performance: During FY2001, OCIO
   is working with the agencies, the DCPWG, and the EITIRB to continue to
   improve the quality of capital planning. This includes a reengineering
   of the USDA CPIC process and creation of better documentation to
   support CPIC. OCIO is also working to provide better tools, training
   and templates for IT capital planning. Progress in this area is
   dependent upon resources received. Program Evaluations: OCIO conducted
   seven IT investment management reviews covering 14 agencies concerning
   the status of IT capital planning. The reviews included interviewing
   agency Deputy Administrators for Management and CIOs to determine the
   agencies' internal use of a formalized capital planning process, use of
   I-TIPS, and input into USDA's capital planning investment control
   process for major investments. Objective 1.3: Identify opportunities
   for streamlining program and administrative business activities, and
   the technology that supports them, through the development and
   implementation of a business/data architecture. Key Performance Goal
   Develop and implement an USDA Enterprise Architecture (EA): Percent of
   agencies using EA Target: 35 Actual: 80 Infuse Government and
   electronic data interchange technologies into business processes where
   applicable: Number of agencies with electronic forms and automated
   directives systems Target: 3 Actual: 14 Number of agencies using the
   Internet for program delivery, e.g. forms, loan balances Target: 10
   Actual: 14 2000 Data: The above data was developed through observation,
   meetings with USDA agencies, inter-agency groups, moratorium waiver
   requests, and the capital planning and investment control process. The
   data is based on OCIO staff observations about agencies' architecture
   approaches and their use of the Enterprise Architecture principles,
   standards, and methods. Thus, the data are sound and reliable. Analysis
   of Results: OCIO met this performance goal. OCIO published two drafts
   of the Enterprise Architecture, conducted Enterprise Architecture
   training for the business and information technology communities, and
   published version 2 of the Enterprise. OCIO developed an Enterprise
   Architecture Compliance Scorecard that was used in conjunction with the
   capital planning and investment control process. USDA is following the
   National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) model for the
   architecture. The 5 layers of the architecture are: business;
   information; applications, data; and technology. Compliance for the
   technology portion is approaching 100%. USDA has also witnessed a
   narrowing of the product base as agencies implemented industry
   preferred products to facilitate seamless communications with their
   customers and stakeholders. Most agency employees can communicate
   internally and with other USDA agencies via local and wide area
   networks. Communication with other Federal agencies and customers and
   partners are enabled through the use of the Internet. The Internet is
   being used to share information about USDA programs and services and
   for electronic mail exchange with external customers and partners. For
   the business and data portion of the architecture, change is much
   slower than for the technology portion. There are opportunities for
   coalescing applications and systems that will be addressed through both
   the architecture and capital planning and investment control governance
   processes. Fundamentally changing the way agencies do business and
   address data sharing is a monumental undertaking. USDA agencies are
   partnering with other USDA agencies and Federal agencies and state and
   local governments in information and data sharing activities using
   common databases and web-enabled applications. In addition, USDA has
   begun to lay the groundwork for transforming USDA's internal and
   external business processes to an electronic government approach. USDA
   is disseminating program information via the Internet and is using
   electronic forms both internally and with the public. As USDA
   implements the Government Paperwork Elimination Act, additional work
   will be required by the agencies to transform their processes to a
   robust electronic government paradigm. Current Fiscal Year Performance:
   During FY 2001, planned actions include analyzing the architecture
   applications inventory to identify potential areas to eliminate
   duplications and coordinate resources; reviewing investment plans to
   identify opportunities for sharing and cost savings and increasing the
   number of Commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) products in use. Program
   Evaluations: OCIO performed an informal self-evaluation of itself
   against the Federal Architecture Model and architecture compliance
   methodologies endorsed by the CIO Council. After evaluation, OCIO
   determined that its architecture approach aligns with that of other
   Federal agencies. Objective 1.4: Establish an assessment methodology
   for Departmental and agency IRM programs that will ensure sound
   management practices are being used to achieve measurable improvements.
   Key Performance Goal Ensure that the Service Center technology
   improvements are driven by business needs and support re-engineered
   business processes: Number of Service Center Oversight implementation
   progress and other reviews conducted Target: 10 Actual: 0 Number of
   Service Center Implementation IV&V's conducted Target: 3 Actual: 0 2000
   Data: None was collected for this performance goal. Analysis of
   Results: This performance goal was not met. In March 2000, the Deputy
   Secretary of Agriculture gave the USDA Chief Information Officer direct
   management responsibility for the IT component of the Service Center
   Modernization Initiative (SCMI). This new direct role obviates the need
   for this objective. Current Fiscal Year Performance: OCIO's Strategic
   Plan for FY2000-2005 contains a new objective that replaces this
   objective reflecting this new role. Program Evaluation: The success of
   the SCMI, relies heavily on the partnerships developed among the three
   Agencies and the OCIO. All SCMI Information Technology activities are
   coordinated through the Information Technology Working Group (ITWG)
   under the direction of the OCIO. The ITWG includes the CIO's of the
   three Agencies, SCMI-IT Team Leaders, employee organization
   representation and partner representation. To ensure that the business
   needs of the agencies are driving the need for technology improvements,
   the Executive Director of the National Food and Agriculture Council
   represents the program interests on the ITWG. A Senior Executive from
   the OCIO chairs the ITWG. Description of Actions and Schedules: In
   partnership with the above agencies, OCIO is on target to ensure the
   basic common computer environment technology infrastructure becomes
   operational in FY2002. Because of the change in OCIO's role from
   strictly oversight to active management of the SCMI-IT, the key
   performance goals changed. The reviews and IV&V's scheduled for 2000
   were not completed. OCIO is now actively managing the SCMI-IT project
   and this change is reflected in the most recent Annual Performance
   Plan. Goal 2: Develop Department-wide information and technical
   infrastructures that will improve service delivery through more
   effective information systems and data management. Objective 2.1:
   Develop and implement technical standards for USDA that will facilitate
   the adoption of specific information technologies necessary to support
   mission objectives and re-engineered streamlined business processes.
   This objective duplicates Goal 1, Objective 1.3 and has been revised in
   the FY 2000 - 2005 Strategic Plan. Objective 2.2: Assess established
   and emerging technologies, including hardware, software,
   communications, artificial intelligence, and other aides to human
   decision making, for opportunities to improve its service delivery.
   This objective duplicates Goal 1, Objective 1.3 and has been revised in
   the FY 2000 - 2005 Strategic Plan. Objective 2.3: Develop and implement
   funding and acquisition strategies to implement information technology
   initiatives. This objective duplicates Goal 1, Objective 1.2 and has
   been revised in the FY 2000 - 2005 Strategic Plan. Objective 2.4:
   Ensure that USDA's mission-critical systems nation-wide are Year 2000
   compliant by March 31, 1999. Provide guidance and leadership for the
   Department and Agencies on all aspects of USDA Year 2000 program
   activities. Mitigate the Year 2000 associated risks in information
   systems, telecommunications systems and vulnerable systems and
   processors with embedded chips. Key Performance Goal Ensure all USDA
   agency mission critical information systems are Year 2000 compliant and
   operational. Percent Y2K awareness Target: 100 Actual: 100 Percent Y2K
   assessment Target: 100 Actual: 100 Percent Y2K renovation Target: 100
   Actual: 100 Percent Y2K validation Target: 100 Actual: 100 Percent Y2K
   implementation Target: 100 Actual: 100 2000 Data The Year 2000
   implementation phase included deployment and implementation of
   converted or replaced systems and implementation of business continuity
   contingency plans, if necessary. Analysis of Results: This performance
   goal was met. As a result of the above efforts, all 344 of USDA's
   mission-critical systems are Year 2000 compliant. In addition, all 336
   of USDA's non-mission critical systems are Year 2000 compliant. USDA
   inventoried its data exchanges and identified exchanges with federal,
   state, local government, private sector, and foreign and private
   partners. USDA tracked 473 data exchanges representing 1,480 exchange
   partners. All data exchanges were compliant and implemented.
   USDA-occupied buildings (owned and leased) were compliant. Current
   Fiscal Year Performance: N/A Program Evaluations: The USDA IV&V effort
   was conducted in two phases. Phase One evaluated system development
   products; reviewed and conducted spot checks on testing activities; and
   monitored development efforts from project start-up to closeout. Phase
   Two involved the scanning of more than 55 million actual lines of code
   for possible errors. All IV&V efforts were successfully completed and
   documented. Objective 2.5: Meet the mandated requirements of the
   President's Commission on Critical Infrastructure Protection (PCCIP) by
   developing a plan to protect USDA's critical infrastructures and
   putting the processes/mechanisms in place to implement the plan and
   update the plan on a 2-year cycle. Key Performance Goal Establish a
   Central Cyber Security Office: Percent of staff on-board Target: 25
   Actual: 33 2000 Data: It is estimated that approximately 25 employees
   are needed for the Cyber Security Program Office to provide USDA
   information system users and managers with the security expertise and
   experience necessary to ensure the integrity and availability of the
   Department's invaluable information assets. At the end of FY 2000, the
   Cyber Security Staff included eight security specialists and is being
   managed by a manager hired specifically for his years of experience and
   accomplishment in the security field. Analysis of Results: This
   performance goal was met. OCIO's ``Action Plan to Strengthen USDA
   Information Security'' provides a sound strategy, based on the best
   practices of leading organizations, for identifying vulnerabilities and
   implementing mitigation procedures and mechanisms. It identifies the
   need for a centralized cyber security office and plans are currently
   underway to establish a USDA Cyber Security Program Office within OCIO.
   As a result of surpassing the target, USDA agency security staffs are
   much better positioned to address cyber security needs and
   requirements. Expertise brought into the Cyber Security Program Office
   has elevated the awareness of security awareness and technique. OCIO
   central security staff is proactive and knowledgeable. A hands-on
   strategy is being implemented and both individual and group security
   training is being provided. Current Fiscal Year Performance: Additional
   funding specific to staffing has been received for FY 2001. Program
   Evaluations: Both the General Accounting Office and USDA's Office of
   Inspector General have issued reports that encourage USDA to implement
   its strategy for improving the Department's cyber security posture. A
   key component of this strategy is the establishment of a central Cyber
   Security Program Office. Key Performance Goal Establish a
   Department-level Risk Management Program: Percent of agencies
   identifying critical assets and assess them for vulnerabilities Target:
   25 Actual: 20 2000 Data: Information regarding USDA's critical cyber
   infrastructure assets and asset vulnerabilities is provided by
   individual USDA agencies. OCIO, with assistance from agency security
   specialists, developed a USDA Critical Infrastructure Assurance Plan,
   required by Presidential Decision Directive (PDD63). In addition to the
   plan, PDD63 calls for a security assessment of each agencies critical
   infrastructure assets. As part of OCIO's annual call for information
   system security plans, agencies were provided additional requirements
   to meet this mandate. Fifty-two major systems have been identified as
   mission critical. Of these, many reside either at USDA's National
   Finance Center in New Orleans, Louisana, or at the National Information
   Technology Center in Kansas City, MO. Cyber security assessments,
   including assessment of physical security requirements have been
   conduct at each site, and vulnerabilities have been identified. In
   addition, individual agencies, which manage other mission critical
   systems, have performed cyber security risk assessments. Analysis of
   Results: This performance goal was not met. Until the establishment of
   OCIO's Cyber Security Program Office, USDA agencies were responsible
   for conducting security assessments of the systems they operated and
   managed. What security risk assessments that were performed were often
   incomplete and conducted in a non-standard manner. OCIO has now
   embarked on a strategy to establish a common methodology with
   standardized tools that agencies and OCIO will use to conduct security
   assessments such that the results will be reported thoroughly and in a
   common manner. With contracted expertise, OCIO has established a
   comprehensive set of cyber security requirements and is poised to
   develop a set of standard security checklist for agencies to use when
   assessing mission critical systems. OCIO is convinced that this
   strategy will lead to greatly improved analysis of USDA cyber security
   vulnerabilities Current Fiscal Year Performance: OCIO's strategy for
   improving USDA's cyber security posture relies on the establishment of
   a sound information system risk assessment program that fulfills the
   requirements of PDD 63. OCIO will continue to work with agencies to
   establish structured and rigorous security assessment procedures and
   tools. Agencies are becoming more comfortable with and experiences in
   the art of vulnerability assessment and are expected to expand their
   efforts in this regard throughout FY 2001. Likewise, OCIO's Cyber
   Security Program Office will be conducting oversight and independent
   assessments to ensure agencies possess the expertise to identified
   security needs and implement strategies that mitigate risks to an
   acceptable level. Description of Actions and Schedules: During FY 2001,
   OCIO will obtain contractor support that will assist in conduction
   security assessments. Program Evaluations: Both the General Accounting
   Office and USDA's Office of Inspector General have issued reports that
   encourage USDA to implement its strategy for improving USDA's cyber
   security posture. A key component of this strategy is the establishment
   of an information systems risk assessment methodology that will be used
   to assess the Department's mission critical information systems. Key
   Performance Goal Develop an USDA Information and Telecommunications
   Security Architecture: Percent completion of security architecture
   Target: 0 Actual: 0 2000 Data: N/A Analysis of Results: N/A Current
   Fiscal Year Performance: A key component of OCIO strategy to improve
   the Department's cyber security program is the identification and
   implementation of information systems security architecture. No funding
   was available in FY 2000 to begin this effort, but funding within
   OCIO's FY2001 budget is targeted specifically to this effort. Program
   Evaluations: None conducted in FY 2000. Key Performance Goal Percent of
   agencies transitioned to FTS 2001 Long Distance Service Provider:
   Target: 50 Actual: 85 2000 Data: USDA made significant progress in the
   transition to the FTS 2001 contract. Before the FTS 2000 contract
   expired in December 2000, USDA had reached an overall transition
   completion rate of 85%. Analysis of Results: This performance goal was
   met. The transition to the FTS 2001 contract was among OCIO's highest
   priorities. We exceeded our initial target and continue to work
   aggressively to complete. Current Fiscal Year Performance: OCIO will
   continue to work with the USDA agencies and staff offices, the General
   Services Administration (GSA) and the FTS 2001 service provider,
   Worldcom, and overcome transition obstacles. Several key issues have
   contributed as impediments to USDA's transition: (1) lack of
   coordination between AT&T (FTS 2000 service provider) and Worldcom, (2)
   AT&T disconnect orders not being processed, (3) the local Verizon
   strike, and (4) remote access requirements. Program Evaluations: For an
   agency the size of USDA, OCIO considers the Department's transition
   progress during 2000 exceptional. We anticipate that our transition
   efforts will be completed during June 2001. The OCIO monitors the
   progress of the FTS 2001 Transition via network usage reports available
   from Worldcom through the OCIO's Fort Collins, CO office. The OCIO has
   also received status updates from GSA at the monthly Transition Task
   Force meetings and through a monthly electronic mail distribution
   process. Key Performance Goal Establish an USDA Universal
   Telecommunications Network: Develop strategic plan Target: yes Actual:
   yes Percent USDA Universal Telecommunications Network implemented
   Target: 5% Actual: 5% 2000 Data: A comprehensive investment proposal
   for the Universal Telecommunications Network (UTN) project was
   developed and processed through the USDA capital planning and
   investment review process. The Executive Information Technology
   Investment Review Board (EITIRB) approved the UTN project with the
   conditions that the newly established USDA Telecommunications Advisory
   Council (TAC) has go/no-go decision authority at the start of each
   major project phase. The UTN project was ranked as the Department's
   second highest priority in the USDA administrative investment
   portfolio, and the Working Capital Fund approved project funding for FY
   2001. In addition, security was strengthened at each of the existing
   Internet Access Nodes with the installation of a standardized security
   stack consisting of firewalls, intrusion detection systems (IDS),
   routers, and switches. Additional nodes will be added based on business
   requirements and architecture design analyses. Analysis of Results:
   This performance goal was met. Utilization of the existing network
   backbone has been increasing at an exponential rate over the past few
   years. Bandwidth on demand has become a critical success factor in
   USDA's ability to deliver its programs successfully. OCIO has expanded
   the circuit bandwidth sevenfold with only a fourfold increase in costs
   since 1998. OCIO will be actively monitoring network utilization in
   order to predict trends and increase bandwidth accordingly. This action
   will result in a reduction of the percentage of average utilization of
   network capacity in the future. Current Fiscal Year Performance: During
   FY 2001, OCIO will establish a UTN Project Office, headed by a Project
   Manager, that will be dedicated to performing the project management
   functions necessary for the success of one of USDA's most critical
   program delivery support functions. The Project Manager will work with
   USDA Associate Chief Information Officer for Telecommunications and the
   Telecommunications Advisory Council to: (1) complete the business case
   that identifies USDA's corporate telecommunications and network
   security requirements; (2) design the architecture to support the
   business case: (3) manage a competitive acquisition to determine USDA's
   telecommunications service provider; and (4) begin to coordinate the
   transition from the existing networks to the new corporate network
   architecture. Program Evaluations: The UTN project will be managed with
   ongoing agency feedback and involvement during each of the critical
   phases of: business case development; architectural/network design;
   competitive acquisition development/management; and transition to the
   new corporate network architecture. Concurrence by the
   Telecommunications Advisory Council (TAC), which is comprised of
   selected agency CIOs or designated agency representatives, is required
   before the start of a new phase. Independent verification and
   validations (IV&V) efforts will be conducted as the TAC deems
   appropriate. Goal 3: Be a leading innovative information technology
   services organization, experienced in providing quality and
   cost-effective services for centralized and distributed computing and
   applications support. These activities are financed through the
   Departmental Working Capital Fund (WCF). Key Performance Goal Support
   the USDA Information Systems Technology Architecture: Percent of OCIO
   computing platforms that have a Web interface Target: 90 Actual: 90
   2000 Data: In FY 2000, the OCIO NITC reached its goal of 90 percent
   completion of providing Web access to all computing platforms. Analysis
   of Results: This performance goal was met. The NITC has a Sun computing
   platform, and four mainframe platforms: Two for USDA, one for FAA, and
   one for the FFIS Data Warehouse. The Sun Platform had Web Access in FY
   1998, via the Oracle Webserver. In FY 1999, the NITC implemented Web
   access on the two USDA mainframes via IBM's Websphere and IBI's Web 390
   in test mode. In FY 2000, the NITC implemented two G5 mainframes to
   support Web access to the USDA mainframe platform. These are in test
   mode, are planned for production in the spring of FY 2001. In FY 2000,
   the NITC also implemented Web access to the FFIS Data Warehouse via a
   Brio server running on an NT platform, with Microsoft's IIS server.
   Finally, in FY 2000 the NITC implemented Web access for the FAA to
   their mainframe platform via three Web servers in production, as well
   as 16 Web servers in test mode, via IBM's Websphere product, LDAP and
   DB2. Production is planned for the test Web servers for FY 2001.
   Current Fiscal Year Performance: NITC placed great emphasis on Web
   access in FY 2000, and successfully implemented it on the FFIS
   mainframe platform via a Brio Web server running on NT. The NITC has
   also fully configured and implemented test environments this year for
   the USDA and FAA mainframe platforms, and implemented three Web servers
   for the FAA in production. The NITC is scheduled to go to production
   with Web Access to the USDA mainframe platform in spring of FY 2001.
   Full production for Web access to the FAA mainframe platform is planned
   for FY 2001 as well. Program Evaluations: At this early date, Web
   access is not known to have been the focus of any program evaluation.
   Key Performance Goal Support the USDA Information Systems Technology
   Architecture: Improve security of information processing resources
   Target: 7 Actual: 7 2000 Data: In FY 2000, the NITC made 7 major
   security improvements. However, the performance target in the Revised
   FY 2000 and FY2001 Annual Performance Plan was inadvertently set to a
   percentage, which has been found not to be readily measurable.
   Therefore, the target has been revised to be a count of major security
   improvements. Analysis of Results: NITC placed great emphasis on
   improving security of information processing resources and accomplished
   scheduled actions and plans in this area. Current Fiscal Year
   Performance: In FY 2001, the OCIO NITC is continuing to improve
   security in the following areas: implemented intrusion detection with
   ISS Real Secure and CA Session Wall on network and client server LAN
   segments; implemented the Virtual Private Network (VPN) encryption into
   production for FNS; enabled and configured cryptographic co-processors
   on FAA and USDA mainframe platforms; customized and implemented the
   OS/390 firewall on the USDA Web systems; implemented access control on
   the FAA Web test system; implemented a process on USDA production
   system to suspend and delete inactive user ids; and enhanced physical
   security by upgrading the facilities internal and external access
   control systems. Program Evaluations: None conducted in FY 2000. Key
   Performance Goal Develop new services and increase customer base for
   existing services. Percent increase of new business based on new and
   existing services Target: 5 Actual: 8 2000 Data: In FY 2000, NITC added
   over three million dollars of revenue in new business, producing an
   increase of over 8 percent. Analysis of Results: This performance goal
   was met. NITC's FY 2000 new business comprised both mid-range and
   mainframe platform work. New mid-range business included the Forest
   Service (FS) Safety and Health Integrated Personnel System (SHIPS), the
   FS Resource Order and Status System (ROSS), the Farm Service/Rural
   Development Data Warehouse, and the Federal Aviation Administration Web
   Access Server. This year's performance exceeded the performance
   objective by more than three percent. Current Fiscal Year Performance:
   NITC is continuing to develop new services and increase customer base
   for existing services. Program Evaluations: No formal performance
   evaluations have been conducted. However, every possible new business
   opportunity is evaluated. Key Performance Goal Improve customer service
   quality Percent Web Access to customer Target: 100 Actual: 100 2000
   Data: In FY 2000, Web access to the customer at the NITC is 100
   percent. Analysis of Results: This performance goal was met. NITC
   provides Web access to customers via numerous platforms and Web
   servers, including Brio servers on the NT platform, Oracle Web servers
   on the Sun platform, Apache Web servers on the AIX platform, and IBM's
   Websphere and IBI's Web 390 on the mainframe platforms. Current Fiscal
   Year Performance: This objective is discontinued. Even though this is
   an important part of our business, collecting associated data was
   difficult due to the complexity of the systems. Additionally, data
   collected does not contribute to the performance relative to the goal.
   Program Evaluations: At this early date, Web access is not known to
   have been the focus of any program evaluation. Key Performance Goal
   Improve customer service quality Percent Home Page is implemented
   Target: 95 Actual: 95 2000 Data: In FY 2000, approximately seven
   feature article updates to the home page and thirty-seven customer
   notifications were posted to the NITC Web site. Two months following
   the millennium rollover, all pages, graphics, buttons, etc. referring
   to Y2K projects were removed. Routine updates (management contacts,
   personnel changes, mainframe rates) were also applied to the site as
   required. Analysis of Results: This performance goal was met. In FY
   2000, several areas of the Home Page remained or under-developed, but
   the site is approximately 95 percent complete. Current Fiscal Year
   Performance: This performance goal is discontinued. This has proven to
   be an important customer service, however, once the home page was
   implemented it is constantly changed. The data did not contribute to
   the measurement of performance relative to the goal. This year's
   performance met the performance objective. Program Evaluations: No
   formal performance evaluations have been conducted. Key Performance
   Goal Improve customer service quality Percent of employees that
   received training Target: 85 Actual: 100 2000 Data: In FY 2000, 100
   percent of NITC's employees received training. Analysis of Results:
   This performance goal was met. NITC continued an aggressive training
   program in FY 2000, ensured that every employee received training, and
   exceeded its targets. Training will include subjects such as Ethics,
   Writing Position Descriptions, Developing Effective Performance
   Standards, Customer Relations, and technical topics such as Project
   Management, OS/390, Web Servers, and UNIX. Current Fiscal Year
   Performance: In Fiscal Year 2001, NITC is continuing to ensure every
   employee is trained. Training will include subjects such as Ethics,
   Writing Position Descriptions, Developing Effective Performance
   Standards, Customer Relations, and technical topics such as Project
   Management, OS/390, Web Servers, and UNIX. Program Evaluations: No
   formal program evaluation was conducted, but it is expected that
   training will be reviewed during the Fiscal Year 2001 review and
   updating of the NITC Strategic and Tactical Plans. Management
   Initiative 1: Implement a professional development strategy to ensure
   that USDA's IT personnel possess the skills necessary to meet the
   challenges of effectively delivering programs and services with
   information technology. Objective: Assess the skills of USDA's IT
   personnel, identify deficiencies, and take corrective action to train
   employees. Establish a professional development program so that it
   addresses both the needs of those who deliver and support technology
   within the Department, as well as those who use it. Together with the
   Office of Human Resources Management (OHRM), manage a IT Workforce
   Planning and Development Working group which ensures active agency
   participation in USDA's IT workforce improvement effort. Key
   Performance Goal Increase percent of Agency acceptance/adoption of the
   CIO-Council's IT core competencies Target: 20 Actual: 0 Increase
   percent of executives/senior managers who integrate IT core
   competencies into their workforce planning. Target: 20 Actual: 0
   Increase percent of completion of USDA professional development
   strategy implementation plan. Target: 20 Actual: 30 2000 Data: During
   FY 2000 data used to describe USDA's current IT workforce was prepared
   from workforce and personnel action summary reports run on the National
   Finance Center (NFC) Reporting web site. The analysis team ran
   approximately 400 reports of workforce and personnel action data from
   NFC. Analysis of Results: This performance goal was not met. The
   targets for the first two goals listed above were not achieved in FY
   2000 because of the emphasis on developing a professional development
   strategy. OCIO surpassed its target goal of achieving 20 percent
   completion of USDA's professional development strategy due to the major
   progress made in the completion of the comprehensive report, Analysis
   of USDA's IT Workforce. This report analyzes the seven major IT series
   represented in the USDA workforce from 1996 to 2000. In addition, the
   Analysis of USDA's IT Workforce, which will be completed in the first
   quarter of FY 2001, uses computer modeling based on various assumptions
   about future hiring and retirement patterns to forecast workforce
   trends through 2005. The report concludes that USDA faces the following
   three major IT workforce challenges: 1) growing retirement eligibility;
   2) high turnover at lower grades; and 3) rising average grade levels,
   leading to a reduced number of employees in the IT developmental
   pipeline. It will serve as a critical baseline and solid foundation for
   achievement of the first two goals listed in this Management Initiative
   as well as for numerous other USDA IT workforce improvement
   initiatives. Current Fiscal Year Performance: It is expected that
   USDA's comprehensive report, Analysis of USDA's IT Workforce, which was
   initiated in FY 2000, will be completed in the first quarter of FY
   2001. This will provide USDA's IT community with a wealth of
   information of the current and future trends in the composition and
   overall status of the current IT workforce. As follow-up to this
   report, USDA will address the critical goals cited in this Management
   Initiative, namely, increase in percentage of Agency
   acceptance/adoption of the CIO Council's IT core competencies and
   increase in the percentage of executives/senior managers who integrate
   IT core competencies into their workforce planning. Description of
   Schedules & Actions: USDA is aggressively tackling the workforce
   planning issue. USDA's OCIO is an active member of Federal CIO Council,
   which provides the vehicle in keeping abreast of what IT initiatives
   and activities are occurring across the federal sector. USDA has
   established an IT Workforce team within the Office of the Chief
   Information Officer that is working with the Human Resources Management
   organization to provide information and guidance concerning workforce
   planning. One of the major tasks for the IT Workforce team is to
   develop a workforce plan, which is scheduled for completion in the
   second quarter of FY 20001. Initially, the workforce plan will be used
   within OCIO with the goal to make it available Department-wide. One
   area that is being emphasized is the need for a skills assessment. This
   will be performed in conjunction with an analysis of the
   skills/competencies needed for both existing and future positions. OCIO
   will recruit an agency to pilot this activity. This will provide the
   agency with a basis for developing career paths and corresponding
   training programs. USDA has also established a workforce planning
   working group consisting of USDA agencies that meet and share
   information on internal and external activities. Program Evaluations:
   OCIO will evaluate the success of this effort through feedback received
   from the HR and IT members of the Department's IT-HR IT Workforce
   Planning and Development Working Group. Further, OCIO will evaluate
   success by tracking the turnover rate of IT professionals at USDA,
   using the Analysis of USDA's IT Workforce as a reliable baseline.
   Surveys and anecdotal evidence from USDA's IT employees has revealed
   that access to training opportunities is a key factor in retaining IT
   professionals. The intent is that one of the by-products of
   implementation of these performance goals will be more training made
   available to IT employees leading to more satisfied employees and
   decrease in turnover. Further the 2000-2005 OCIO Strategic Plan will
   reflect new initiatives developed as part of USDA's IT workforce
   improvement program. These initiatives will be broader in scope than
   the initiatives cited in this document. Management Initiative 2:
   Continually improve the quality and effectiveness of the OCIO workforce
   and ensure the civil rights of all. Objective: The OCIO will train and
   recruit personnel to meet its mission and continually improve its
   workforce by selecting and retaining top-quality individual and
   improving employees' skills. Key Performance Goal Increase employee
   morale: Percent of employees indicating medium to high morale Target:
   50% Actual: 75% Percent decrease in formal and information complaints
   Target: 50% Actual: 80% Provide Civil Rights training for all
   employees: Percent of employees trained in Civil Rights Target: 100%
   Actual: 100% Provide conflict management training for all employees:
   Percent of employees trained in conflict management Target: 50% Actual:
   100% 2000 Data: Baselines established for increasing employee moral and
   decreasing formal and informal complaints are based on goals
   established by OCIO senior management. Percentages for Civil Rights
   training and Conflict Management training are based on information
   obtained from accurate and reliable agency records (e.g. training, EEO
   profiles, supervisory/employee ratio). Analysis of Results: This
   performance was met. OCIO has developed an approach to improving the
   quality and effectiveness of the OCIO workforce and ensuring the Civil
   Rights of all. In particular, one aspect of this approach resulted in
   the development of a comprehensive Civil Rights Training Program for
   all employees. In FY 2000 100% of OCIO employees completed mandatory
   training established by the Secretary of Agriculture, which included
   Equal Employment Opportunity and Cultural Diversity training.. OCIO
   established a baseline in FY 2000 of providing conflict management
   training for 50% of its employees. One hundred percent (senior
   managers) received training to achieve a basic level of competency in
   conflict management skills. Current Fiscal Year Performance: OCIO will
   include, in FY 2001, Civil Rights awareness training to incorporate
   emphasis in two areas mandated by the Secretary: Disability and
   Diversity training. Program Evaluations: OCIO is devoting both money
   and resources to assuring that the civil rights for all employees are
   respected. There was no formal evaluation of this program in FY 2000,
   however, OCIO has steadily reduced its inventory of active EEO
   complaints. The performance target in the Revised FY 2000 and FY 2001
   Annual Performance Plan was inadvertently set to a percentage, which
   has been found not to be readily measurable. Therefore, the target has
   been revised to ?????????????????????????????????????
