http://www.rtc.wa.gov/resources.htm

   [rtcbanner.gif]

            Data Resources Photo Copyright ©1994, Karl E. Peterson

  Regional Traffic Count Data

     We've been collecting traffic count data since 1980 on hundreds of
     intersections throughout Clark County. This data is now entirely
     available here on the web, or may be downloaded as a compiled
     HtmlHelp file that will run on any system with Microsoft Internet
     Explorer 4.01 installed.

  Congestion Management Monitoring Project

     The Congestion Management Monitoring project focuses on delivering
     improved transportation system performance information to
     decision-makers who must identify the most cost-effective strategies
     for addressing transportation congestion and improving mobility.
     This project consists of collecting additional transportation data,
     analyzing transportation system performance, and annual preparation
     of a System Performance Report. The performance measures considered
     for this project include a corridor congestion ratio, speed as
     percent of speed limit, auto vehicle occupancy, truck percentage,
     transit seat capacity used, and other transportation measures.

  Digital Mapping for Southwest Washington

     [ccgis.gif] RTC is proud to be hosting Clark County's Department of
     Assessment and GIS as they bring their Geographic Information System
     online for all to benefit. Currently offered are a series of
     Community Development maps which depict your choice of layers, and
     the county's Transportation Improvment Program maps which show the
     projects scheduled for the next six years. The county also offers an
     interesting variety of maps and other publications, detailed on this
     subweb, for purchase at the courthouse.

  Transportation Wallpaper

     Every office has a collection of wallpaper related to their
     business, right? Here's a few collected from the desktops around
     here.


   Send mail to webmaster@rtc.wa.gov with questions or comments about this
                                  web site.
     Copyright ©1992-2002, Regional Transportation Council, All Rights
                                  Reserved.
                  This page was last updated May 15, 2001.
