http://ilewg.jsc.nasa.gov/ILEWG/curevnt.html

   Declaration of the 4th International Conference on the Exploration and
                      Utilisation of the Moon (ICEUM4)

                                sponsored by
              The International Lunar Exploration Working Group

   Over 150 people gathered at ESA's European Space Research and
   Technology Centre ESTEC in Noordwijk, The Netherlands, to discuss the
   prospects for lunar exploration, development and utilisation. We found
   that interest in these topics has been significantly advanced by recent
   discoveries made by lunar orbiting missions and will continue to
   advance as new missions to the Moon are implemented. The ESA SMART-1
   and the Japanese Lunar-A and SELENE missions are under development and
   government and private organisations are proposing other lunar
   missions.

   In recognition of this re-emerging interest in the Moon, particularly
   among young people, the Conference attendees strongly support the
   formation of a Lunar Explorers' Society. This organisation, which was
   created today with intense participation from young explorers from
   around the World, will promote interest in science, technology
   development, new missions and better understanding of the role of the
   Moon in the future development of human civilisation.

   The space agencies of the world are urged to focus their efforts to
   promote both public and private initiatives for lunar exploration and
   development. Government efforts should focus on the creation of
   technologies needed for lunar development and the conduct of
   intensified scientific studies of the Moon, from the Moon and on the
   Moon. Government - Industry partnerships should address the development
   of the resources and infrastructure needed for long - term human
   activities on the Moon, and there are nearer-term commercial
   opportunities.

   The Earth and Moon have been linked from the time of their formation,
   over 4.5 billion years ago. The ancient record of events in our region
   of the solar system cannot be discerned on the Earth, which remains
   geologically active. On the Moon, much of the early history still is
   available to be deciphered and is the focus of much scientific
   interest. The advances in knowledge being made with data from the
   recent Clementine and Lunar Prospector missions allow many lunar
   problems to be reassessed, and new priorities have emerged for lunar
   scientific exploration. The geophysical characterisation of the
   interior and the return of samples from key locations are important
   near-future mission objectives, and opportunities for higher resolution
   chemical and mineralogical mapping from orbit should be pursued.

   The Moon is an ideal test bed for demonstration of technologies to be
   used in the exploration of Mercury, Mars, asteroids or moons of the
   outer planets. In addition, many exciting advances that lead to
   long-term human exploration, development and settlement of the Moon can
   be initiated now through robotic programs (i. e. robotic outposts).
   Robotic missions can conduct scientific investigations, investigate the
   lunar environment, develop and demonstrate key technologies, and begin
   to establish the infrastructure that is needed to support humans.

   Because the Moon is close to the Earth, and has a much smaller gravity
   field, lunar resources might one day be exportable for use elsewhere in
   space. Potentially, some products (solar energy, ^3He for fusion
   reactors) may be profitably brought from space to Earth. Technology for
   accomplishing these possibilities should be investigated further. We
   urgently need conclusive data and knowledge about the physical,
   chemical and mineralogical composition of the lunar polar regions,
   which might contain supplies of hydrogen and water that could be useful
   for the near-term development of space. These should be developed in a
   considered, step-wise process, keeping in mind the potential for
   environmental impact on the Moon. The protection of the lunar
   environment is of high importance, but it now appears that localised
   resource exploration and utilisation can be conducted without global
   adverse effects.

   As plans for lunar exploration and development are prepared, attention
   must be given to the inclusion of people from the entire world, and
   especially the young, in this endeavour. The Moon has a special
   significance in many cultures and sensitivity to these cultural aspects
   must be balanced with economic and technological advancements. The
   youth especially should be encouraged, perhaps by the creation of
   national programs to support small lunar missions designed, developed
   and implemented by students.

   We believe that the Moon can be both a beacon and a focus for the next
   generation of space exploration, which will concentrate on bringing new
   and important benefits (resources, technologies, employment and
   education) to the people of all Nations on Earth.

   Development of human capability on the Moon will be the next major step
   in humanity's emergence into the universe.

              ESTEC, Noordwijk, The Netherlands, July 14, 2000
