http://www.bfrl.nist.gov/goals_programs/02prgmCIA.htm

   . . . . . . . . . . .
   BFRL Programs . Link to NIST .
   .
   Link to Home Link to Research Areas Link to BFRL Publications Link to
   BFRL Software Link to BFRL Staff Information Link to Contact
   Information Link to Ask the Experts Section .

BFRL Program

          CONSIAT: Construction Integration and Automation Technology
       _______________________________________________________________



                                        LINKS
                                                       Component Projects

  Fiscal Year: 2002

  BFRL Program Description

     Title: CONSIAT: Construction Integration and Automation Technology

     Program Manager: S. Shyam Sunder, Structures Division, 301-975-6061

     Co-Investigators:

     Office of Applied Economics Robert E. Chapman (x2723), Harold E.
     Marshall (x6131), Christine Izzo (x6057), Sieglinde K. Fuller
     (x6134), Amy S. Rushing (x6136)

     Structures Division William C. Stone (x6075), Geraldine S. Cheok
     (x6074), Karen Furlani (x6078), Dewitt T. Latimer (x6069), John L.
     Gross (x6068), Stephen A. Cauffman (x6051)

     Building Environment Division Kent Reed (x5852), Mark Palmer
     (x5858), Robert R. Lipman (x3829), James P. Barnett (x5854)

     Information Technology Laboratory, Mathematical and Computational
     Sciences Division Christopher J. Witzgall (x2725), David Gilsinn
     (x3491), Javier Bernal (x2724)

     Sponsor(s):

     National Institute of Standards and Technology (BFRL/STRS)

     Systems Integration for Manufacturing Applications Program
     (MEL/STRS)

     Information Technology Laboratory (ITL/STRS)

     National Aeronautics and Space Administration (TBD)

     Naval Facilities Engineering Command (TBD)

     Objective: To achieve breakthrough cycle time and lifecycle cost
     reductions in the delivery of construction projects by providing
     within five years the critical science-based performance measurement
     tools that will enable early industry integration and automation of
     the construction process.

     Problem: The Construction Industry Institute (CII) an organization
     with about 100 members representing the Nations leading owners,
     contractors, and suppliers of constructed facilities has made the
     development of Fully Integrated and Automated Project Processes,
     FIAPP, a top priority. Likewise, in its "Technology Vision 2020,"
     the U.S. chemical industry identified integration and automation
     technologies as essential for improving its economic
     competitiveness. However, the construction industry faces special
     challenges in reaping the full benefits of the information
     technology revolution that has brought and continues to bring rich
     rewards to many other industries. These challenges include low R&D
     investment, the fragmentation of the industry, and the strong
     project-oriented nature of its processes. In the past, the CII has
     endeavored to overcome these challenges by identifying and
     promulgating best practices.

     The construction industry has already achieved reductions of 20
     percent or more in project delivery time, costs, and worker injuries
     through implementation of best practices over the past decade, but
     the industry is dedicated to redoubling these gains. Achieving FIAPP
     requires moving beyond best-practices to considering breakthrough
     process and product innovations.

     The CONSIAT program will enable industry use and further development
     of new automation capabilities that will lead to significant cycle
     time and life-cycle cost reductions in the delivery of construction
     projects by achieving breakthrough, technology-intensive process
     changes. Such innovations with emphasis on "integration,"
     "automation," and the filling of critical information gaps are vital
     to business competitiveness of facility owners and owner-operators,
     and of engineer-procure-construct (EPC) or EPC-operate-maintain
     (EPCO&M) contractors.

     Specifically, this NIST program will contribute to U.S. industrys
     ability to:

     compress project schedule through concurrent engineering and reduce
     design changes;

     enable better control of project schedule and cost;

     improve supply chain management, including tracking of materials,
     equipment, and labor;

     rapidly detect and rectify differences between intended design
     ("should-be") and actual construction ("as-is");

     avoid rework through just-in-time guidance for field operations;

     automate the construction process, including equipment for automated
     positioning and high-speed assembly/placement; and

     capture the physical and functional "as-built" status of a project
     for later use in facility commissioning, operation, maintenance, and
     renovation.

     Approach: The CONSIAT program will contribute to breakthrough
     process changes by providing the critical science-based performance
     measurement tools to enable:

     integration and automation of project, product and facility
     information within the context of the entire life cycle and
     enterprise wide resource planning systems;

     integration of construction site metrology data and other field
     information into project information management systems;

     delivery of just-in-time information to guide field operations; and

     automation of the construction process.

     This strategy will close the information gap between engineering,
     materials management, on-site work processes, and project control
     systems. NIST is also investigating the broader industry-wide
     challenges, problems, priorities, and benefits associated with
     achieving FIAPP.

     Drawing upon documented economic success in industries such as
     manufacturing, NIST will develop harmonized IT protocols (viz.,
     information representation and exchange protocols and technical
     transaction protocols) for seamless flow of information through
     project life-cycle processes to include:

     design, procurement, and construction life-cycle processes

     specifications for application program interfaces (APIs) to
     implement IT protocols

     pilot projects with industry to demonstrate implementation of IT
     protocols

     re-engineered project work processes and industry practices

     NIST will also develop performance measures and information
     protocols for advanced construction measurement systems including:

     accuracy, registration, object recognition, traceable calibration,
     and sensor deployment in unstructured field environments and
     next-generation sensor development

     innovative processes (tele-operable, autonomous) and equipment
     (positioning, assembly)

     field sensor data and construction process integration based on
     near-real-time data pipelines with wireless segments to and from the
     construction site

     construction process simulation with time-tagged database, including
     "as-is" data for field construction management

     In addition, NIST will provide the economic-decision support tools
     and analyses to quantify the life-cycle costs and the economic
     impacts of these integration and automation technologies. NIST will
     also conduct analyses of benchmarking data to measure the economic
     value of industry best practices and the impact of project delivery
     mechanisms (design-build, design-bid-build,
     engineer-procure-construct-operate-maintain) on project outcomes
     (cycle time, construction cost, and construction worker safety).

     In order to focus and accelerate the industry development of
     integration and automation technologies, CII, with the support of
     NIST, has created the FIATECH Consortium. This collaborative,
     not-for-profit consortium will conduct leveraged research and
     development in partnership with suppliers, with firms in the
     software/information technology industries, and with the public
     sector. NIST is working in close partnership with the FIATECH
     Consortium to maximize the relevancy of the projects and the
     leveraging of resources on both sides, and to minimize the time to
     implementation of the program results. NIST is also participating in
     the FIATECH-led Capital Projects Technology Roadmapping effort. The
     resulting industry roadmap will help guide the CONSIAT program. In
     addition, NIST is partnering with the Civil Engineering Research
     Foundation (CERF) as lead, the FIATECH Consortium, the International
     Alliance for Interoperability (IAI), and the Institute for Research
     in Construction (IRC), Canada, in a proposal to lead the new CIB
     priority theme on Business and Process Re-engineering.

     NIST expects to partner with FIATECH Consortium members on trial
     applications involving generic project/facility sub-systems the work
     process modules common to capital projects. Examples include:
     earthwork, foundation, and structure; pipe spools and piping
     systems; mechanical, heating, ventilating and air-conditioning
     systems: and cableway systems. Examples of sub-systems relevant to
     specific applications might include: enclosure skin and interior
     finishing for buildings and light industrial construction; equipment
     and piping for heavy industrial and process plants.

     Finally, NIST plans to partner with FIATECH Consortium members on
     pilot projects involving actual construction these projects involve
     end-user specific applications that combine several of the generic
     sub-system modules. Examples include process and manufacturing
     plants; light industrial; highway and bridge construction;
     topographic engineering; and shipbuilding.

     Within NIST, the CONSIAT program actively partners with the
     Manufacturing Engineering Laboratory (Manufacturing Systems
     Integration and Intelligent Systems Divisions) and the Information
     Technology Laboratory (Mathematical and Computational Sciences
     Division). In addition, collaboration has been initiated with two
     other Divisions in the Manufacturing Engineering Laboratory
     (Manufacturing Metrology and Precision Engineering Divisions) and
     with the Physics Laboratory (Optical Technology Division, Time and
     Frequency Division) and the Electronics and Electrical Engineering
     Laboratory (Semiconductor Electronics Division).

     During FY 2002, the focus of CONSIAT will continue to be on
     sub-system information delivery, viz.: the earthwork and structural
     (steel) delivery process; and the pipe spools and piping systems
     delivery process. In addition, CONSIAT is providing leadership for
     planning, organizing, hosting, and conducting the 19^th
     International Symposium on Automation and Robotics in Construction
     (ISARC 2002), September 23-25, 2002, at NIST. While no separate
     budget is requested, this task is estimated to require at least 2
     FTEs equivalent of effort to cover the NIST secretariat in FY 2002.

     Program Outcome: NIST has completed prospective economic impact
     assessments for FIAPP products and services in two sectors of the
     construction industry Industrial Facilities and Commercial
     Buildings. Based upon very conservative assumptions used in the
     analyses, FIAPP products and services are expected to result in a
     nationwide present value cost savings of $3.4 billion in these two
     sectors of construction and a return-on-investment benefit of about
     $5 for each $1 spent on BFRLs CONSIAT research. These benefits
     accrue for the owner via reductions in delivery time, first costs,
     and maintenance and repair costs and for the contractor via higher
     net income and reduced accidents. A follow up economic impact
     assessment for the public works sector of construction will be
     completed in 2002 and a final report will be issued to document the
     economic impacts on all three sectors of construction.

     Recent Results:

     Major results of NIST research include:

     Development of a prototype graphical user interface that
     demonstrates 3D web-based technologies for accessing and viewing
     construction project information using Virtual Reality Modeling
     Language (VRML).

     Extension of the static data model in AISC CIMSteel Integration
     Standard (CIS/2) to incorporate temporal data about the location and
     orientation of structural steelwork components, and implementation
     of the model in a first-generation project management system
     database (this formed the basis for tracking construction site
     progress in FY2001).

     Development of a translator between CIS2 and VRML that has served as
     a testbed for software vendors to verify their CIS2 export
     capabilities.

     Field testing of an advanced interoperability protocol LiveView for
     the construction industry that will ultimately permit
     "plug-and-play" communication capability between site sensors,
     wireless communications equipment, third party software to provide
     project management information using live data from the construction
     site, and the downlink information necessary to bring automation to
     the construction site.

     Development of a prototype method for registering a large-scale
     laser-based coordinate measurement system to the WGS 84 (World
     Geodetic System 1984).

     Development of a web-based system for the automatic extraction of
     fiducial point locations for steel frame structural elements, based
     on the CIS/2 data representation standard, in collaboration with
     project 863-5013.

     Publication of a report documenting one method for registration of
     LADAR range data and the identification of issues that need to be
     further researched.

     Range calibration of LADAR and an attempt to correlate LADAR
     intensity with range. The effect of angle of incidence of the laser
     on the accuracy was identified as an important issue requiring
     further study.

     Testing and evaluating the use of bar codes made with
     retro-reflective materials to aid in object identification,
     including the ability to read the bar codes as a function of
     distance and to pick out several bar codes in the same 2D scene.

     Field testing of a customized interactive web interface operating on
     a wireless, wearable field computer that can track components,
     machinery, and other mobile assets on an active construction site in
     real-time by seamlessly integrating a laser-based real-time spatial
     positioning system, a bar code and RFID scanning system, and a
     wireless data link.

     Establishment of a collaborative project with the PlantSTEP
     Consortium, the U.S. Navy and the U.S. shipbuilding industry to
     develop the systems design, fabrication, and installation extension
     of ISO 10303-227 (the first results are a project report on the data
     exchange requirements for the piping fabrication and inspection
     extension of ISO 10303-227 and the ISO Committee Draft of ISO AP 227
     Edition 2 for systems design and installation).

     Field testing of new techniques for using ultra-fast laser ranging
     technologies LIDAR and three-dimensional analysis to automatically,
     and non-intrusively, scan an active construction site and to extract
     useful information concerning excavation status for project
     management.

     Completion of a collaborative study with the Construction Industry
     Institute and the publication of reports that document the economic
     benefits and costs of FIATECH technologies in commercial buildings
     and industrial facilities.

     In addition, the CONSIAT team featured a laboratory tour for the
     NIST Director on "NIST 3D Range Imaging Program" in June 2001. Just
     preceding the laboratory tour, a similar briefing was provided to
     program managers at DARPAs Special Projects Office to explore joint
     projects. The CONSIAT team had previously presented a NIST
     Best-in-the-World Lecture on Construction Metrology in June 1999.
     The CONSIAT team also provided the technical program chair and
     proceedings editor for the Robotics 2000 Conference, Albuquerque, NM
     (February/March 2000). The conference was attended by about 300
     people from many different countries around the world and provided
     an excellent opportunity to showcase NIST work.

     The CONSIAT team provided extensive demonstrations and briefings
     during FY 1999 for construction industry leaders, including the CII
     and its Executive Committee, Strategic Planning Committee, and the
     Breakthrough Strategy Committee. These briefings contributed to the
     CII decision to launch the FIATECH Consortium. In partnership with
     CII and its Breakthrough Strategy Committee, the CONSIAT team also
     produced a video featuring NIST research and the potential value of
     FIAPP technologies to the construction industry. The video was
     showcased at the CII Annual Meeting in August 1999. An updated video
     was produced to feature the new FIATECH Consortium and presented at
     the CII Annual Meeting in August 2000.

     In addition, CONSIAT team members are providing leadership in
     technical and standards committees. Mark Palmer is a member of ISO
     Technical Committee 184 on Industrial Automation Systems and
     Integration. He is also leader for two projects under Subcommittee 4
     on Industrial Data. He is also leading the FIATECH project on
     eBusiness for Capital Facilities. In addition, CONSIAT team members
     served on the following CII research teams:

     Radio Frequency Identification (RT 151): Bill Stone and Karen
     Furlani

     Improving Construction Supply Chain Performance (RT 172): Mark
     Palmer (leader)

     The work of the CONSIAT team has been featured on the cover of
     Mechanical Engineering, the monthly magazine of the American Society
     of Mechanical Engineers, and on the cover of the proceedings of the
     Fifth Symposium on the Virtual Reality Modeling Language (VRML
     2000), organized by the Web3D Consortium. Several news items related
     to the work of the CONSIAT team have appeared in news magazines such
     as Engineering News-Record (ENR).

     External Champions: In pursuing this Program, NIST will build on
     existing and new partnerships with owners, contractors,
     materials/equipment suppliers of constructed facilities, firms in
     the software/information technology industries, sensors and
     instrumentation manufactures, industry organizations (e.g.,
     Construction Industry Institute, FIATECH Consortium, National Center
     for Manufacturing Sciences, American Institute of Steel
     Construction, Owner-Operator Forum, Lean Construction Institute,
     Civil Engineering Research Foundation), government agencies (e.g.,
     US Army Corps of Engineers, Naval Facilities Engineering Command,
     General Services Administration, National Aeronautics and Space
     Administration, Naval Sea Systems Command), standards development
     and technical organizations (e.g., International Organization for
     Standardization, International Alliance for Interoperability,
     PlantSTEP Consortium, International Council for Research and
     Innovation in Building and Construction CIB, Automatic
     Identification Manufacturers AIM Association, American Society of
     Civil Engineers, American Institute of Architects), and university
     research centers (e.g., Carnegie-Mellon University Robotics
     Institute, Stanford University Center for Integrated Facilities
     Engineering, University of Texas at Austin, University of California
     at Berkeley, Arizona State University).

     Component Projects:

   Procedures and Metrics for Construction Range Imaging and Registration
       Measurement Processes and Metrics for Construction Component
       Tracking
       Field Sensor Data and Construction Process Integration Interface
       Protocols
       Performance of Innovative Connections for Automated Steel
       Construction
       Systems Integration and Performance Analysis for Next Generation
       LADAR (NGL)
       Procedures and Metrics for Construction Range Imaging and
       Registration
       Enhanced Construction Object Recognition
       Measurement Processes and Metrics for Construction Component
       Tracking (NIST Comp-TRAK)
       Field Sensor Data and Construction Process Integration Interface
       Protocols
       Product Data Standards for Building Construction - Improved
       Integration, Automation, and Use of Project Information for Steel
       Construction
       Product Data Standards for Industrial Facilities Improving
       Equipment and System Design, Fabrication, and Installation
       Economic Support for Construction Integration and Automation
       Program
       Economic Analysis of Construction Industry Institute Benchmarking
       Data



                                Graphic Rule

     Privacy Statement/Security Notice  |  Disclaimer  |  FOIA

   Technical Website Questions: bfrlwebmaster@nist.gov

   NIST is an agency of the U.S. Commerce Department's Technology
   Administration.

   Link to NIST Centennial Site
                                                                 BFRL Logo

                           Date created: 8/15/2001
                           Last updated: 8/15/2001
