http://www.cem.va.gov/faq.htm


   Cemetery in misty sunshine
   National Cemetery Administration Home Page
   "A Sacred Trust"
   What's New
   National Cemetery Administration
   Cemeteries
   Burial Benefits
   Headstones and Markers
   Presidential Memorial Certificates
   Military Funeral Honors
   State Cemetery Grants Program
   Locating Veterans
   Obtaining Military Records & Medals
   FAQs
   Site Map
   Department of Veterans Affairs Seal: Return to Home Page
                       [skip navigation]
   [skip navigation]
   Burial & Memorial Benefits
   FAQs
   Does the VA pay for cremation?
       Can I be reimbursed for burial expenses?
       What are my burial benefits?
       What can I do now to prepare for burial in a national cemetery?
       I don’t have my military discharge, how can I get a copy?
       If I remarry after my husband dies can I still be buried in a
       national cemetery with my first husband?
       Is my mother, who is not a veteran, entitled to a Government marker
       in a private cemetery?
       Can I be buried at Arlington National Cemetery?
       Am I eligible for a burial flag and how do I get one?
       How can I locate all my buddies from the war for a reunion?
       I served in the National Guard. Can I be buried in a National
       Cemetery?
       What is a Presidential Memorial Certificate?
       How can I find out the status of a headstone order?
       What do I do if the headstone inscription is incorrect?
       All my medals were lost after the war. How can I get them replaced?
       Can I order a flat marker for my husband and use it as a foot
       stone?
       My great-grandfather was killed during the Civil War. Can you tell
       me where he is buried and about his service in the Union Army?
       Can VA provide burial at sea?
       What is a state veterans cemetery?
       Will the national cemetery provide military honors for my brother?
       Is the National Cemetery Administration running out of space?
       I served in World War II and want to be buried in a national
       cemetery. What happens if my spouse dies before me?

   VA Home Page / Site Map / Facilities Locator / Privacy & Security
   Statement / Disclaimer
   Freedom of Information Act / Contact the VA
