http://clinton2.nara.gov/WH/New/html/19990803.html

                               THE WHITE HOUSE
                        Office of the Press Secretary
                             (Chicago, Illinois)
     __________________________________________________________________

     For Immediate Release August 3, 1999

                          REMARKS BY THE PRESIDENT
                    AT NATIONAL FORUM ON WELFARE TO WORK
                           Navy Pier Festival Hall
                              Chicago, Illinois

     11:10 A.M. CDT

     THE PRESIDENT: Thank you so much. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you
     for the warm, wonderful welcome when I came in. Mr. Mayor, thank you
     for your friendship and your leadership. Chicago is a beautiful,
     beautiful city, and it works. (Applause.)

     I think I should simply begin by thanking the people of this city
     and this state for being so good to me and to Hillary and to Al and
     Tipper Gore and to our administration, and for setting an example of
     what we can do to make America work. I'm also kind of getting used
     to seeing all these pretty cows all over the place here. (Laughter.)
     I was trying to think of what animals I could start putting all over
     the White House lawn when I get back, to follow the Mayor's lead.
     (Laughter.)

     I would like to say that Governor Ryan and Governor Thompson were
     here earlier -- I thank them for coming by. I thank Governor Carper
     of Delaware for being here. Mayor Webb, Mayor Helmke, Mayor Morial,
     Mayor O'Neill. I thank Secretary Herman, our Secretary of Labor;
     Secretary of Transportation Slater; and Secretary Bill Daley,
     another native of this great city, for his work at Commerce; and
     Small Business Administrator Aida Alvarez.

     Secretary Shalala, our HHS Secretary, has been heavily involved in
     this. She's not here today, but I want to thank Olivia Golden and Al
     Collins for being here. And most of all, I want to thank the leaders
     of this remarkable business partnership -- my good friend, Eli
     Segal, who is the best start-up person in the world. (Applause.)

     Many of you know this, but when I became President, I asked Eli to
     head our national service program, AmeriCorps. And we got it through
     the Congress, and in four years, AmeriCorps had 100,000 young people
     serving in our communities, earning money to go to school -- a goal
     that took the Peace Corps 20 years to reach.

     So, I thought, well, we need to get more employers involved in
     hiring people from welfare to work. I'll ask Eli to do it -- then I
     won't even have to think about it anymore. (Laughter.) And so Eli
     got Gerry Greenwald and Paul Clayton, Robert Shapiro, Bill Esrey and
     Jim Kelly, and they started -- with five. And I said -- then there
     were 5,000. And I said, but we need 10,000. And now there are
     12,000. I think if I told them we needed 25,000, next year we'd have
     30,000 employers here. And I thank him so much. (Applause.)

     And I want to thank Gerry especially for chairing our efforts. I
     understand he runs an airline company in his off hours -- (laughter)
     -- but I think most of the time he's spent on this project in the
     last few years.

     Six and a half years ago, I asked the American people to join me on
     a crusade to transform our system of welfare into a system of work;
     to transform a system of dependence into a system of independence;
     to prove that poor people could succeed, at the same time, at work
     and in raising their children; to bring a whole generation of
     Americans into the mainstream of our life.

     Now you see the signs of the transformation everywhere: Inner city
     buses that used to be empty at rush hour are packed. Tax preparation
     services are moving into abandoned storefronts, helping former
     welfare recipients fill out the first tax forms of their lives.
     There are more subtle changes: mothers collecting their mail with a
     little more pride because they know they'll see a bank statement,
     not a welfare check; children going to school with their heads held
     a little higher.

     It's difficult to remember that, seven years ago, our country was
     largely out of work and out of ideas. Our economy was stagnant,
     burdened with a crushing debt and soaring deficits, high interest
     rates and high unemployment. But so was our political debate. For
     some, the welfare system was our last line of defense against abject
     poverty. To others, it was exhibit A of America's decline.

     Clearly, it had become a system that undermined our cherished values
     of work and family. When I was a governor, a job I had for a dozen
     years before you were kind enough to give me this one, I had the
     chance to actually go to welfare offices, talk to caseworkers, talk
     to recipients, watch people check in. I spent hours, over a period
     of years, talking to welfare recipients, asking them, what would it
     take to make the system work for them, and listening to them tell me
     all the manifold ways in which welfare discouraged work and
     independence.

     I asked the American people to change course -- to restore with all
     of our people the fundamental bargain that we ought to have
     opportunity for all in return for responsibility from all our
     citizens, and to include everyone in America's community.

     Today, the bargain is being fulfilled and our country is working
     again. We have the longest peacetime expansion in history, nearly 19
     million new jobs; the lowest unemployment in a generation; the
     lowest minority unemployment ever recorded; the highest home
     ownership in history. From a deficit of $290 billion we are moving
     to a surplus of $99 billion. And this year alone we will be pay $85
     billion on our national debt. (Applause.)

     And a big part of this is the decision that the American people,
     through their elected representatives, made to end welfare as we
     know it. We raised the minimum wage and passed the earned income tax
     credit, which says to working families if you work full-time you
     shouldn't have to raise your children in poverty. We gave 43 waivers
     to states to launch their own welfare reform efforts when I took
     office. And then in 1996, as has already been said, a big bipartisan
     majority, big majorities of both parties and both Houses reached
     across the divide to pass this welfare reform bill.

     We recognize that in addition to requiring able-bodied people to
     work within a certain period of time, millions of people who had
     never known anything but dependency, who had never even seen, many
     of them, their own parents have a job, could not make the transition
     on their own or easily. So we made sure there was extra support for
     child care, for transportation, for housing, and we kept the
     national guarantee -- after two vetoes, but we kept the national
     guarantee of medical care and nutrition for the children of people
     on welfare and for those moving off. ( Applause.)

     We also provided new tax incentives to encourage employers to hire
     people from welfare. Today I am very proud to be able to tell you
     that all 50 states and the District of Columbia have now met the
     work requirements for the percentage of people on welfare in their
     states that have to be in work that we set in 1996 -- every single
     state is in compliance. (Applause.)

     The welfare rolls have been cut in half; they're at their lowest
     level in 32 years. (Applause.) And those who are on welfare today
     are four times as likely to work as when I took office. Now, while
     some of the credit, doubtless, goes to our booming economy, the
     Council of Economic Advisors recently did a study for me which found
     that welfare reform, with its new emphasis on work, has been the
     single most important factor in reducing the roles. Three-quarters
     of the 6.8 million people who have left welfare since I took office
     did so after welfare reform was signed in 1996. And many who left
     before did so under the reform efforts adopted by the states.

     The credit goes to all of you in this audience, and people like you
     across our country. When we passed the law in '96, I said moving
     Americans from welfare to work would take the commitment of every
     element of our society, not just government -- but businesses,
     faith-based organizations, community groups and private citizens.
     The Vice President has done a tremendous job of bringing our
     religious and service organizations together in his coalition to
     sustain success. And in 1997, as I said, my long-time friend, Eli
     Segal, agreed to help to rally the business community and you know
     the rest. Today, he, Gerry Greenwald and the other founders have
     built a partnership that is 12,000 businesses strong.

     Members of this welfare to work partnership, businesses both large
     and small, have given -- listen to this -- just the members of this
     partnership have given 410,000 welfare recipients the opportunity to
     have a job. (Applause.) More than eight in 10 executives report
     great success in hiring people off welfare roles. They're finding
     these employees are a good investment -- they work hard, they stay
     in their jobs as long or even longer than other employees. And in
     this era of labor shortages we must not forget that welfare
     recipients can be a rich pool of untapped talent -- people who are
     good for the bottom line. I thank you for recognizing the important
     role you can play in extending these opportunities to all Americans.

     I am proud to say, also under the Vice President's leadership, the
     federal government has done its part. Our goal was to hire 10,000
     people by this year from welfare; we have now hired 14,000 -- in the
     smallest federal government since 1963. (Applause.)

     Mr. Mayor, one of the people we hired from welfare is here with us
     today. Her name is Maria Hernandez. She was on public assistance for
     more than three years; now she's worked as an administrative
     assistant in our Cook County North Census Office since January.
     Thank you, Maria, and thank all the rest of you who are here who
     reflect the same story. Thank you. (Applause.)

     Now, before we get on with the program today, I want to tell you
     that as pleased as we are, we have to do more. And I'd like to
     mention the things that I believe we have to do to make the most of
     this economic opportunity for America, to fulfill our moral
     obligation, to promote the values of work and family to the people
     still on public assistance and those who teeter going back and
     forth.

     First, we must continue to honor our commitment to welfare reform.
     There are some in Congress who want to cut the welfare block grant
     we give to the states and take some of that money back, because the
     welfare rolls are so low, to finance a big tax cut. I think that
     would be a mistake, and here's why. (Applause.) Here's why. In every
     state, there are still people who could move from welfare to work if
     they had more training, if they had transportation, if they had
     child care. (Applause.) In every state, there are people who may be
     working today who might have to leave the work force, for lack of
     transportation or child care. (Applause.) In every state, there are
     people who can stay on the job if they get further training.

     So I say, let's spend this money to develop the human capacity of
     our people. It will make the economy stronger, and we will all be
     better off. (Applause.)

     There are other things which need to be done. I have asked the
     Congress to build on the welfare-to-work program, by helping those
     who are least prepared to work. My welfare-to-work budget this year
     contains extra funds for adult literacy, and for education and
     training for adults. I think that's important. (Applause.)

     We must also do more to help low-income fathers honor their
     responsibility to pay child support to their children. (Applause.)
     Three years ago, we strengthened our child support enforcement laws.
     This welfare-to-work budget targets funds to help responsible
     fathers work and pay child support. I hope Congress will pass it.
     (Applause.)

     Let me say, we also need to make sure that when people move from
     welfare to work, they understand, if they're in low-income jobs,
     that their kids are still entitled to Medicaid coverage if their
     employer doesn't offer health care, and to food stamps, so they'll
     have adequate nutrition. (Applause.)

     The only piece of troubling news in this whole happy scenario is
     that there has been a drop in use of food stamps among low-income
     people that is greater than the number of people who have moved into
     jobs with incomes above that level. No one can find the answer for
     me -- and we've been looking now for weeks and weeks and weeks. But
     I think, clearly, what has happened is, a lot of people moved from
     welfare to work, they're delighted to be at work, and they literally
     don't know that they're still eligible for this assistance. That's
     what I think is going on. So we have to work on that, and a lot of
     you here can help.

     We also have to strengthen our commitment to child care. For years,
     mothers on welfare chose not to work because to do so would
     literally have hurt their children, because it would have cost them
     more in child care than they could make on the job. In 1996, we
     added $4 billion to our child care subsidy, but, believe it or not,
     we have only met one-tenth of the need. So I ask Congress to pass
     our child care initiative, to provide more child care subsidies and
     tax credits to needy families, and new funds to improve the quality
     of care. This will also help to sustain welfare reform. (Applause.)

     To finish the job, I've asked Congress to double our commitment to
     transportation assistance to provide 25,000 new welfare-to-work
     housing vouchers so people can live near their jobs. (Applause.) To
     finish the job, I have asked Congress to increase the minimum wage,
     to make sure when people work they are living above the poverty
     line. (Applause.) And to finish the job, we have to recognize that
     there are whole communities -- big inner-city neighborhoods, places
     in Appalachia, places in the Mississippi Delta, small towns where
     the only factory has moved away, Native American reservations --
     where the light of prosperity has not shined on the whole community.

     Last month, I traveled across America to shine that spotlight on the
     inner cities, on the Mississippi Delta, on Appalachia, on the Native
     American communities. I saw families doing their best to raise
     children in neighborhoods where unemployment and poverty were more
     than double the national average. On some of our Indian reservations
     it is above 70 percent.

     I ask your help in passing my New Markets Initiative, because it
     will give American investors the same incentives to invest in poor
     neighborhoods in America we give them today to invest in poor
     countries around the world. I think it is a very, very good idea.
     (Applause.)

     And, finally, I ask you to continue your work. We all know that the
     people who still are on welfare, by and large, are the most
     difficult to place in work. We all know that they are the most
     likely to have children with special needs, or limited levels of
     education and skills, or to be a long way from an available
     workplace with no transportation funds. We know there are problems
     out there. But we also know that there are good people who wish to
     go to work and ought to have the chance. And so I ask you to stay at
     this and to recruit some of your vendors and clients, to reach out
     to small businesspeople you know, to ask others to join this
     crusade.

     I want to say a special word of thanks to IBM for sponsoring a new
     on-line network that can help match businesses who need workers with
     welfare recipients who need jobs. And for our part, I want you to
     know I'm working to extend the welfare-to-work tax credit and the
     work opportunity tax credit to reward those of you who take the
     chance on giving more Americans a chance. (Applause.) Thank you.

     The great Russian writer, Leo Tolstoy, once said that, "work is the
     true source of human welfare." In this era of unprecedented
     prosperity, we still have some work of our own to do to make sure
     the we embrace all Americans in this prosperity and to give every
     American the chance to succeed at work and to succeed at home.

     I thank every one of you for what you have done, and I ask you to
     support the initiatives I outlined with the Congress and to stay at
     the job until we can literally say we have completely ended welfare
     as we know it, and America is a better place because our families
     are stronger, our children are growing up in more stable homes, and
     every adult American who is willing to work has a chance to do so.

     Thank you very, very much. (Applause.) Thank you very much.
     (Applause.)

     END 11:30 A.M. CDT

                                [Footer icon]

                     [White House icon] [Help Desk icon]
     __________________________________________________________________

                         To comment on this service,
                 send feedback to the Web Development Team.
