http://quake.usgs.gov/prepare/hazards.html


   USGS Banner
   Northern California Earthquake Banner



                              Latest Quake Info


                             General Quake Info


                           Hazards & Preparedness


                             Earthquake Research


                              Special Features


                            Additional Resources


                                   Search



     You are here: Home > Hazards & Preparedness > Earthquake Hazards
   spacer spacer
   spacer spacer


                                   spacer
                               [blackpix.gif]
                           Hazards & Preparedness
                               [blackpix.gif]

   Earthquake Hazards

   Safer Structures, Engineering and Building Codes

   Earthquake Preparedness

   Introduction to Shaking Hazard Maps

   Shaking Hazard Maps - San Francisco Bay Area
   Maps of predicted shaking intensity for various possible earthquakes in
   the San Francisco Bay area, expressed on the Modified Mercalli
   Intensity Scale. This site from the Association of Bay Area Governments
   (ABAG) offers a variety of resources on ground shaking, how it is
   estimated, and what effects it may have.

   Shaking Intensity Maps - San Francisco Bay Area
   More maps of predicted shaking intensity in three "scenario" San
   Andreas fault and Hayward fault earthqukes.

   Effect of Soil Type on Shaking Hazard
   The type of soil at a site affects the intensity of shaking there.
   Learn about this effect and use interactive maps to look up the soil
   type at any site in the San Francisco Bay Area.

   When Will the Next Great Quake Strike Northern California?
   The Great 1906 San Francisco Earthquake is the most powerful in
   Northern California's recorded history. New studies of this earthquake
   are yielding important clues we can utilize to better prepare for
   future earthquakes.

   Potential for Large Earthquakes in Northern California
   Report by the 1996 Working Group on Northern California Earthquake
   Potential (Open-File Report 96-705). Downloadable map and database of
   active faults in Northern California.

   Predicted Shaking for a Report of the Great 1906 Earthquake
   Automated slide show (15 minutes) reviewing the 1906 and 1989
   earthquake damage, the application of GIS technology, and expected
   ground shaking maps for the San Francisco Bay Region.

   Recent and Significant Past Earthquakes
   Index of large or otherwise important earthquakes of the past (U.S. and
   global) for which photographs and reports are availble online.

   Earthquake Hazards Program
   National homepage for the Earthquake Hazards Program at the USGS.

   Earthquake Hazard in Alaska
     * Color map summarizing historical earthquake activity and risk in
       Alaska.
     * Complete guide to preparing for natural disasters in Alaska, with
       an emphasis on earthquake preparedness

   National Hazards Center
   Large website providing information on natural hazards and human
   adjustments to these risks, by the national Hazards Center at the
   University of Colorado, Boulder.

   Hazards in Perspective
   Floods, earthquakes, tsunamis, volcanoes, landslides, wildlife disease,
   wildfire.

   National Seismic Hazards Maps

   The National Seismic Hazard Mapping Project in Golden, Colorado
   presents an overview.of the mapping project and its principle products:
   A series of national- and regional-scale probabilistic maps of
   earthquake shaking hazard. Download or order maps.


   Earthquake Probabilities for the San Francisco Bay Region

      Two reports by the 1999 Working Group on California Earthquake
      Probabilities, which present long-term regional probability estimates
      and describe the data and methodology used to estimate them.

   • Non-technical summary
   • Full Report


   Earthquake Hazard in Southern California

   Seismic Hazards Map - Probable Earthquakes from 1994-2024 courtesy of
   Southern California Earthquake Data Center
   Safer Structures, Engineering and Building Codes >
   Homepage  |  Site Index  |  Contact Us  |  About Us  |  USGS Earthquake
                               News Releases

   U.S. Geological Survey, Earthquake Hazards Program
   URL http://quake.wr.usgs.gov/prepare/hazards.html
   Contact:webmaster@ehznorth.wr.usgs.gov
   Last modification: October 26, 2001
