http://www.graysreef.nos.noaa.gov/turtletag.html


   [grnms.jpeg]

   General Information

   research

   education

   Shades of Gray

   Jane Yarn Cruise Reports

   buoy data

   Sanctuary Advisory Council

   local news and other sites

   underwater pictures

   sanctuaries homepagehomepage










                 Gray's Reef Banner

   LOGGERHEAD SEA TURTLE TRACKING [packback.jpeg]

   Grays' Reef Satellite Tagging Project

**NEW**

Follow recently tagged loggerhead sea turltes "BIG MOMMA" and "ALESSA".

   Big Momma (15642) was tagged May 27 on Wassaw Island, Georgia. Since
   then she has been observed nesting 4 times in Wassaw by the Caretta
   Research Project. Big Momma is also one of the Caretta Research
   Projects Adopt-A-Turtles and has been known to nest in Wassaw since the
   late 1980's. Alessa was tagged May 29 and was a new nester (neophyte)
   at Wassaw Island. These turtles were tagged in partnership with the
   Caretta Research Project and WhaleNet.

Other Gray's Reef tagged turtles

     * Humpty Dumpty the injured turtle which was treated and released
       with a satellite tag.
     * Previously tagged loggerhead sea turtles

Background

   Gray's Reef National Marine Sanctuary is an important habitat for sea
   turtles including the threatened Loggerhead sea turtle. The ledges and
   overhangs of the reef provide the Loggerhead sea turtle with protected
   resting spots, a bountiful resource of food, and close proximity to
   nesting sites on barrier island beaches.

   Although observations by sanctuary staff have documented the presence
   of Loggerhead sea turtles within the sanctuary and along the South
   Atlantic Bight, little is known about the turtles daily and seasonal
   behavior nor their use of the [loggerhead.jpg] ocean habitats,
   especially off the coast of Georgia. Many studies have focused on
   easily accessible nesting behavior and post nesting movement of adult
   females, while little work has been conducted on adult male and
   juvenile behavioral patterns and spatial use of coastal waters.

   GRNMS Sea Turtle Satellite Tagging Project will utilize backpack
   satellite tags to monitor adult and juvenile Loggerhead Sea Turtle
   behavior and movement in the South Atlantic Bight. Specifically
   parameters including turtles position, time, and depth will be
   electronically collected and transmitted via satellite simultaneously
   to scientists at GRNMS. The data will allow scientists to 1) help
   explain movement and dive patterns of Loggerhead sea turtles, 2)
   develop a biological model to increase the predictability of these
   patterns, 3) obtain information concerning Loggerhead behavior and
   activity off the coast of Georgia, and 4) explain the interactions
   between sea turtles and shrimp trawlers.

   The project methods include turtle capture, weight measurement, blood
   analysis, satellite tag attachment, and release of turtle. To capture a
   turtle, a loggerhead is directed by divers into a hand held net,
   carried to the surface, and lifted onto a boat. Turtles will be
   returned to the capture site following a blood sample and the
   attachment of a satellite transmitter and identification tag.

   The Loggerhead Turtle has an elongate, heart shaped shell that is
   ridged and made of two layers. The first is a bony structure formed by
   the fusion of vertebrate and ribs, while the second is a covering of
   kerotinized scales or scutes (similar to our finger and toe nails)
   which make up the outer shell layer. The shell of the Loggerhead
   turtle, called a carapace, has 10 scales. For this study the satellite
   transmitters will be attached to the turtle using a new 2-part adhesive
   placed on the highest part of the animals carapace, the second scale. A
   sea turtle, like all reptiles, must surface to breath and when it does
   an air bubble forms under its shell producing positive buoyancy,
   bringing the animal to the surface in a flat, prone position, rather
   than head first. As a result, the transmitter antenna is placed facing
   backwards so when the turtle surfaces, so too will the transmitter. As
   the turtle and transmitter are exposed to air, the data collected while
   underwater is transmitted via satellite.

   The transmitted information will provide specific information
   concerning turtle position, time intervals between surfacing, migration
   behaviors, day/night swimming patterns, and inshore/offshore preferred
   water ranges through instantaneous data readout of the Loggerhead sea
   turtles Behavior Patterns.
