http://response.restoration.noaa.gov/intro/projs.html

   NOAA OR&R Home / About Us / Current Projects

                             Some Current Projects

   Coral Protection and Restoration
   NOAA OR&R manages the funds for a variety of NOAA's coral protection
   and conservation activities. Damage Assessment Center scientists are
   working to address the impact of abandoned vessels on coral reef
   ecosystems. OR&R also is working to better understand why and where
   vessel groundings occur, to prevent future groundings in reefs and
   other sensitive areas. It is developing standard protocols for
   assessing damage to coral reefs, and working to improve local
   capability to respond to spills threatening reef areas. With other
   agencies, it is working to restore reefs in American Samoa damaged by
   vessel groundings during a 1991 hurricane. (our Protecting and
   Restoring Coral Reefs factsheet discusses OR&R's coral work [135K PDF
   file])

   Environmental Sensitivity Index Atlases
   These map atlases characterize shorelines, coastal animals, plants, and
   habitats, and human-use areas according to their vulnerability to
   oiling. Print maps of all U.S. coastal areas are available; electronic
   map atlases and GIS data for many U.S. coastal areas are also
   available.

   Oil Spill Modeling
   When oil or a petroleum product is spilled, oceanographers at NOAA OR&R
   use a set of computer models and programs to predict how the spilled
   material will move and spread across the water surface, and how it will
   weather over time. Three of these programs are available for
   distribution. They are GNOME, an oil spill trajectory model, ADIOS, an
   oil weathering model, and DOGS, a program for analyzing bathymetric
   data.

   The CAMEO Project
   NOAA OR&R, in cooperation with EPA colleagues, publishes CAMEO, an
   electronic information system designed for firefighters and other
   people who must respond to hazardous chemical emergencies. CAMEO
   quickly provides response information about more than 4,000
   commonly-transported chemicals. It also includes features for
   electronic mapping and ALOHA, a model for predicting the hazardous zone
   where toxic gases may put people at risk. More than 5,000 organizations
   around the world use CAMEO, and the United Nations Environment
   Programme has adopted it to help developing countries plan for chemical
   emergencies.

   Damage Assessment Activities
   Specialists at OR&R's Damage Assessment Center (DAC) perform the
   technical work required to conduct natural resource damage assessments.
   Along with other components of NOAA's Damage Assessment and Restoration
   Program, DAC staff members assess injury to coastal and marine
   resources from releases of oil and other hazardous materials, develop
   and evaluate restoration projects that compensate for the injury and
   associated loss of services, restore injured trust resources, and
   monitor the effectiveness of restoration projects. More than 30 damage
   assessment cases have been settled, generating more than $230 million
   for restoring injured coastal resources.

   Hazardous Waste Sites
   A team of NOAA OR&R Coastal Resource Coordinators work as liaisons
   between NOAA and the EPA, helping EPA staff members to identify the
   best environmental remedies for coastal locations that have been
   damaged by hazardous wastes. Annually, the coordinators address
   problems on about 400 waste sites around the country. They are
   supported by a team of researchers investigating wetlands restoration,
   sediment toxicity, and other issues.

   Watershed Projects
   For several U.S. watersheds, NOAA OR&R researchers are collecting and
   organizing information on sediment contamination and toxicity, sources
   of contaminants, natural resources, and potential habitat restoration
   projects. They have developed a database and mapping system for
   displaying these data. Work is underway on several pilot projects
   around the U.S., including the Christina River.

   Pribilof Islands Environmental Restoration Project
   The United States Government managed Alaska's Pribilof Islands from
   1867, when Alaska was purchased from Russia, until the islands were
   returned to the indigenous Aleut people after passage of the Alaska
   Native Claims Settlement Act in 1971. The Department of Commerce and
   NOAA have assumed responsibility for the United States Government's
   cleanup of debris and contamination left behind during its management
   period.

   Training
   Each year, NOAA OR&R scientists provide training in the science behind
   oil and chemical spill response to people from industry, local
   government, and other Federal agencies. Classes are held in Seattle and
   in the Gulf of Mexico, Northeast, and Great Lakes regions.

   Long-Term Monitoring
   Since 1989, we've been studying the effects of oiling and cleanup in
   Prince William Sound, with the goal of improving spill response and
   cleanup activities in the future. This long-term monitoring program is
   the only one of its kind to have resulted from the Exxon Valdez spill,
   and remains the only study to continuously track the progress of
   recovery from the initial year to the present.

   Port Projects
   As part of a broader effort by NOAA's National Ocean Service, NOAA OR&R
   is managing navigation safety and efficiency projects in San Francisco
   Bay, Puget Sound, and in Cook Inlet and Prince William Sound, Alaska.
   These projects focus on activities that can help to prevent maritime
   spills.

   Back to About Us

   Revised: January 14, 2002
   Office of Response and Restoration, National Ocean Service, National
   Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
   orr.webmaster@noaa.gov
