http://www.sustainable.doe.gov/management/frumcore.shtml




                          EREN Department of Energy
   Text Only | Español
   Center of Excellence for Sustainable Development
   Welcome Contact Us Site Index Newsletter



   [hp_bullet.gif] Overview
                   Green Buildings
                   Green Development
                   Land Use Planning
                   Measuring Progress
                   Disaster Planning
                   Community Energy
                   Transportation
                   Sustainable Business
                   Financing
                   Rural Issues
                   Resource Efficiency
                   Air•Water•Materials
   Sustainable Development Discussion Groups


     * CESD Sustainable Development Forum

     * Links to Other Sustainable Development Discussion Groups

   A key element to successful sustainable development efforts is
   communication. Sharing ideas and networking with others involved with
   sustainable development can greatly increase knowledge, as well as
   provide support and encouragement. For example, a transportation
   planning director looking for ideas about how to make public fleets in
   his or her community more sustainable could benefit greatly from advice
   from communities that have implemented such programs. Or, a green
   building program director investigating a new technology could learn a
   great deal from other builders who have experience with the
   technology.

   Electronic discussion groups can greatly enhance the ability to
   communicate with many people who are interested in a similar topic.
   Such groups allow open, constructive conversation via e-mail that can
   collectively benefit those who subscribe to the group. And their
   electronic format makes discussion easy and convenient. In most cases,
   you’ll receive a copy of each message as it is posted to the group. In
   some cases, archives are posted at the host site, which allows you to
   review the previously-posted messages. Before you can begin receiving
   these messages, however, you usually have to subscribe.

   CESD’s on-line forum is a dynamic discussion group focusing on topics
   related to sustainable development. This forum allows you to
   participate in an interactive environment where you can discuss issues,
   ask questions, and make comments on community sustainability.

   In addition, we’ve provided links to other discussion groups and
   listservs that focus on sustainable development and related topics.
   Back to Top



                            HOME | EREN | SEARCH
