http://www.ta.doc.gov/GovReleases/NIST-011130.htm

      [REDBAR]

   For Immediate Release
   November 30, 2001
                        Contacts: Jim Dyke/Trevor Francis,
                                  Office of the Secretary, DOC
                                  Telephone: 202 482-4883
                                  Email: Jdyke@doc.gov, or
                                  Michael Newman,
                                  National Institute of Standards & Technology
                                  Telephone: 301 975-3025
      [REDBAR]

                BEMENT CONFIRMED BY SENATE AS TWELFTH NIST DIRECTOR

      To Lead Agency in Maintaining Nations Economic Competitiveness Through
          Continued Innovation in Measurements, Standards and Technology

      The U.S. Senate today confirmed Arden L. Bement Jr. as director of the
      Commerce Department's National Institute of Standards and Technology.

      The position of NIST director is a presidential appointment. Bement,
      69, was nominated by President Bush on Oct. 23, 2001, to be the 12th
      director of the agency. He succeeds Raymond Kammer, who retired in
      December 2000. NIST Deputy Director Karen Brown has served as acting
      director in the interim.

      He brings a wealth of experience in both the private and public sector
      vital to this position. With Dr. Bement leading our nations premier
      federal lab, we look forward to making the Technology Administration
      the portal for the technology community to the federal government.

      Bement was most recently the David A. Ross Distinguished Professor of
      Nuclear Engineering and head of the School of Nuclear Engineering at
      Purdue University. He has held appointments at Purdue University in the
      schools of Nuclear Engineering, Materials Engineering, Electrical and
      Computer Engineering, and a courtesy appointment in the Krannert School
      of Management. He was director of the Midwest Superconductivity
      Consortium and the Consortium for the Intelligent Management of the
      Electrical Power Grid.

      Bement comes to his position as NIST director well versed in the
      workings of the agency, having previously served as head of the
      Visiting Committee on Advanced Technology, the agencys primary
      private-sector policy adviser; as head of the advisory committee for
      NISTs Advanced Technology Program; and on the Board of Overseers for
      the Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award.

      Bement joined the Purdue faculty in 1992 after a 39-year career in
      industry, government and academia. These positions included: vice
      president of science and technology for TRW Inc. (1980-1992); deputy
      under secretary of defense for research and engineering (1979-1980);
      director, Office of Materials Science, DARPA (1976-1979); professor of
      nuclear materials, MIT (1970-1976); manager, Fuels and Materials
      Department and the Metallurgy Research Department, Battelle Northwest
      Laboratories (1965-1970); and senior research associate, General
      Electric Company (1954-1965).

      Along with his NIST advisory roles, Bement served as a member of the
      U.S. National Science Board, the advisory board for the National
      Science Foundation, from 1989 to 1995. He also chaired the Commission
      for Engineering and Technical Studies and the Materials Advisory Board
      of the National Research Council; was a member of the Space Station
      Utilization Advisory Subcommittee and the Commercialization and
      Technology Advisory Committee for NASA; and consulted for the
      Department of Energy's Argonne National Laboratory and Idaho Nuclear
      Energy and Environmental Laboratory.

      He has been a director of Keithley Instruments Inc. and the Lord Corp.;
      and was a member of the Science and Technology Advisory Committee for
      the Howmet Corp. (a division of ALCOA).

      Bement holds an engineer of metallurgy degree from the Colorado School
      of Mines, a masters degree in metallurgical material engineering from
      the University of Idaho, a doctorate degree in metallurgical material
      engineering from the University of Michigan, and a honorary doctorate
      degree in engineering from Cleveland State University. He is a member
      of the U.S. National Academy of Engineering.

      Bements family includes his wife, Louise; eight children; 23
      grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. He is a native of
      Pittsburgh, Pa., and grew up in New Castle, Pa.
