http://www.ssa.gov/onlineservices/

                               Online Services

   Text Version

   Online Services
   Are Available:
   Monday-Friday 6 AM - 1 AM
   Saturday 8 AM - 11 PM
   Sunday 8 AM - 8 PM
   All times ET

   Encryption Notice: We’re sorry, but if your browser can’t use 128-bit
   encryption, you’ll need to upgrade it before you can use our Internet
   applications.

   Note: We're working to make all our online services compatible with
   Macintosh computers and Web TV. If you can't access an online service
   call our 800 number or visit your local office to do your business.

   Field Office Locator
   Locate the closest Social Security Office by ZIP code. Available
   Monday - Friday 3:00 AM. - 2:00 AM. (23 hours of availability!)
   Saturday 8 AM - 11 PM
   Sunday 8 AM - 8 PM

   eNews - Subscribe ... It's Free!

   General Services:
     * Apply for Social Security Retirement, Spouses, or Disability
       Benefits
       Complete your benefit application right over the Internet!
     * Estimate your benefit amounts (always available)
       Use our benefit planners to calculate your benefits.
     * Request a Social Security Statement
       Request your earnings report and benefit estimates.
       (Always available on weekdays (except 2 AM - 3 AM)!)
     * Employment opportunities
       Social Security jobs!
     * Check if you're eligible for Social Security Benefits
       Social Security administers several different benefit programs. Use
       our screening tool to help identify all the benefits you may be
       eligible for from those programs.

   Services for People Who Get Or Recently Applied for Benefits:
     * Request a Replacement Medicare Card
       Replace your lost or damaged Medicare card.
     * Request a Benefit Verification Letter
       Request a letter confirming your Social Security benefit
       information.
     * Request a Replacement Form 1099-Social Security Benefit Statement
       Get a summary of your Social Security benefits from last year (not
       SSI).
       (Note: 1099 service has been suspended until the 2001 benefit
       summaries have been mailed. Service will resume February 1, 2002.)
     * Password Services
       If you received a letter from us about password services.
     * Check Your Social Security Benefits
       See your personal Social Security information. (You must have a
       password.)
     * Change Your Address or Phone Number
       Change the information we use to contact you. (You must have a
       password.)
     * Start or Change Your Direct Deposit
       Start direct deposit of your checks, or change your current direct
       deposit to another account or financial institution. (You must have
       a password.)

    | Home | Top 10 Services | Forms | FAQs | Other Sites | Search | Site
                        Map | Privacy Policy | eNews
