http://www.centennialofflight.gov/education.htm

          Trial flight of a 1901 Wright Flyer at Jockey's Ridge, NC


   Black Spacer Image The U.S. Centennial of Flight Commission
   Collection of images featuring, students, a balloonist, globe, Wright
   Flyer blueprints.
   Celebrating a Century of Powered Flight




                         What's New!

                         Home
                         About the Commission
                         National Plan
                         Calendar of Events
                           •Search an Event
                           •Submit an Event
                         Wright Brothers History
                         For Educators & Students
                           •Matrix
                           •Posters & Bookmark
                           •Webcasts
                         History of Aviation
                         Future of Flight
                         Exhibit Info & Brochure
                         Sights & Sounds of Aviation
                         Contact Us



   For Educators and Students

   This web site will serve as the primary mechanism by which the
   Centennial of Flight Commission will disseminate information to
   educators and their students. Through this site, we will provide
   numerous suggestions of how you can engage your students in a multitude
   of interdisciplinary activities related to the past, present, and
   future of flight.

   We hope the resources will encourage you and your students to celebrate
   the past 100 years of flight; to rediscover the challenges of flight;
   and to learn about the people, events, and technology that made flight
   possible. Students of all ages will be able to examine how our world
   has changed as a result of the Wright Brothers' first powered flight on
   December 17, 1903. What possibilities will they be able to imagine for
   the next one hundred years of flight?

   We have many exciting plans to connect you and your students to the
   wonderful world of aeronautics and space flight. Over the course of the
   next several years, a vast array of aerospace-related products,
   programs, and information, such as the attached educational resources
   matrix, will be made available through this web site. We will also post
   information about conferences, special events, and places of interest.

   The organizations and agencies listed below represent the U.S.
   Centennial of Flight Commissioners and additional relevant entities
   such as those representing Ohio and North Carolina. We have also
   provided the direct link to each of their education home pages.

   Experimental Aircraft Association (EAA)
   www.eaa.org/education.html

   Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)
   www.faa.gov/education

   First Flight Centennial Commission
   www.firstflightnc.com/education.cfm

   First Flight Centennial Foundation
   www.firstflightcentennial.org/mlc.htm

   Inventing Flight: The Centennial Celebration, 2003
   www.inventingflight.com/celebmain.htm

   National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA)
   education.nasa.gov
   www.aerospace.nasa.gov/edu/online.htm

   National Air and Space Museum
   www.nasm.edu/nasm/edu/


   U.S. Centennial Of Flight Commission Website
   Curator: The U.S. Centennial of Flight Commission
   Contact Us | Technical Questions
   DISCLAIMER
