http://www.tourism.wa.gov/Region.asp?region=4

   Washington State
                    A Little Trip to the Extraordinary
   North Cascades The Coast Olympic and Kitsap Peninsula Wine Country The
   Palouse
   Ponderosa Pine Country The Islands Volcano Country Columbia River
   Plateau Seattle
   Famous Places
   Outdoor Activities
   Cultural Attractions
   Lodging Associations
   Cities
   Visitor Information
   Festivals & Events
   Home Site Map Contact Us __________________
   Search

   No rows of high-rise hotels or conspicuous condos here just natural
   beauty, historical flavor and elegant accommodations. Washingtons coast
   is much more than a beach destination. Native Americans thrived here
   for thousands of years before Lewis and Clark first sighted the Pacific
   Ocean from Washington. Now families and lovers come to snuggle and
   watch the waves do somersaults on the sand.

   Adventure abounds on both land and sea, be it birding or whale
   watching, kite flying or winter storm watching, horseback riding or
   clam digging. Abundant oysters and fish are the freshest anywhere,
   whether you catch them yourself or just order them in a restaurant. And
   remember to sample recipes that include the world-famous cranberries
   grown in local bogs along the cranberry coast.

   If you enjoy being transported back in time, the Coast will ignite your
   imagination. At Fort Canby State Park, you can relive the adventures of
   Lewis and Clark who completed their quest for the Pacific near this
   spot almost 200 years ago. Built on a rocky headland, and home to a
   century-old lighthouse, this interpretive center contains exhaustive
   journal excerpts, maps and photo-murals of places along the explorers
   route.

   This region was also once a major supplier of lumber to the world and
   famous for its deep-water harbors and innovative shipbuilding. Stroll
   the boardwalk in a historic seaport or poke around old logging towns
   where you can hunt for antiques. When youre tired, cuddle in one of the
   many B&Bs that were once oceanfront retreats for timber barons.

   The most common visitors to this region are not even people. Millions
   of migratory birds annually visit the estuaries and tide flats that
   make for rich feeding grounds. Bird watchers flock here from all over
   the world to spy on a cast of characters with names like sandpipers,
   plover, yellowlegs and marbled godwit, along with brown pelicans and
   the kingly great blue heron to name just a few.

   During the summer months, be sure to take a boat tour to watch gray
   whales as they pass Washington during their migration to summer feeding
   grounds. Weighing up to 40 tons and growing up to 40 feet in length,
   these giant mammals are also gentle and curious by nature. During the
   height of the season (about mid-March through April) the whales can be
   easy to find, but their combination of grace and size is impossible to
   capture in words.

   Many beach destinations around the world have been created or
   drastically developed for tourists, but the Coast retains its woodsy
   character and historical landscape. The people who live here and visit,
   love it because it hasnt changed in ways that ruin the spirit of a
   magical place. The birds and the whales still love to come here too. In
   the summer, the heat of the sun is balanced in the Pacific breeze. The
   spring and fall bring the transient sounds and colors of seasonal
   change and migration. And in the winter, powerful storms play out
   torrential dramas on the shore. Whenever you come, bring your true
   self, plus a kite, binoculars, a fishing pole and a healthy appetite.
   [spacer.gif]

   Not all cities in this region are shown above. For a complete list of
   all cities in this region, along with a city locator map, please click
   on the Cities page for each region.
   About Washington State Order Travel Information Transportation
   Press Room Survey Weather Kids

   Copyright 2000
