http://history.nasa.gov/what.html

   NASA Insignia - jump to NASA's home page

   NASA - jump to NASA's home page History Office
   Office of External Relations
   Welcome to the NASA History Office website
   home
   What's New
   brief history
   Major Subjects
   site index
   Keyword Search
   site map
   about NASA's history office
   other links
   contacting us

   CAPTION:

          Hot Topics/FAQs - New Publications - New Online Materials

   New Publications

   Faster, Better, Cheaper: Low-Cost Innovation in the U.S. Space Program
   by Howard E. McCurdy. This concise hardcover volume is the latest in
   the Johns Hopkins New Series in NASA History. McCurdy looks at the 16
   robotic planetary exploration missions undertaken during the 1990s
   since the loss of the Mars Observer spacecraft in 1993. He assesses how
   smaller spacecraft, cheaper technology, and different management
   techniques fared on these missions. This is an important scholarly book
   on a popular topic. For more information or to purchase, click here.

   Exploring the Unknown: Selected Documents in the History of the U.S.
   Civil Space Program, Volume V: Exploring the Cosmos Edited by John M.
   Logsdon, with Amy Paige Snyder, Roger D. Launius, Stephen J. Garber,
   and Regan Anne Newport (Washington, D.C.: NASA SP-4407), This is the
   fifth volume in an ongoing series of reference books that are useful
   for those interested in both space history and space policy. The
   documents are grouped into three thematic chapters with an introductory
   essay for each subject. Chapter one is devoted to the origins and early
   organization of space science, chapter two covers NASA's planetary
   exploration efforts, and the third chapter details space-based
   astronomy and astrophysics. John E. Naugle and John M. Logsdon wrote
   the introductory essay for the first chapter. Amy Paige Snyder wrote
   the introductory essay for the second chapter and Nancy Grace Roman did
   this for the third chapter. The introductory essays for each chapter
   can now be found on-line in Adobe Acrobat pdf format. To view click
   here. For sale for $70.00 (domestic postpaid), $87.50 (non-U.S.) from
   the U.S. Superintendent of Documents. By Mail: Superintendent of
   Documents, P.O. Box 371954, Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954. FAX: (202)
   512-2250. Phone: (202) 512-1800 (7:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. Eastern time).
   Order stock number 033-000-01238-1. This book also may be purchased
   from the NASA Information Center, Code CMI-1, NASA Headquarters, 300 E
   Street SW, Room 1H23, Washington, DC 20546-0001, (202) 358-0000. Order
   NASA SP-4407, Volume V.

   A recent edition to the "New Series in NASA History" is Taking Science
   to the Moon: Lunar Experiments and the Apollo Program, by Donald A.
   Beattie (Baltimore, MD: Johns Hopkins University Press, 2001),
   Hardcover - 336 pages, ISBN:0-8018-6599-9, Price $42.50. The
   advertising copy for this work states: "This is a well written, clearly
   argued book on a topic of very considerable interest to working earth
   and planetary scientists, historians of science, and spaceflight
   'buffs,' as well as an informed public. The science performed during
   and in preparation for the Apollo missions has drawn relatively little
   attention given its scope, the number of people involved, and the
   importance of the results secured. Hence this work helps to fill a
   surprising gap in the literature, as well as adding a very interesting
   voice to the existing material on the workings of NASA in the 1960s and
   early 1970s."Robert Smith, University of Alberta, Canada. This book may
   be ordered on-line or by calling 1-800-537-5487.

   We are delighted to report that the University Press of Kentucky has
   just released the following NASA historical work. Expanding the
   Envelope: Flight Research at NACA and NASA was written by Michael H.
   Gorn. To order on-line, please click here. Flight research is one of
   the three legs supporting the development of aerospace technology in
   the United States, the other two being theoretical studies and wind
   tunnel and computer modelling. But flight research represents the
   crucial point at which theory and modelling come together for
   validation in flight systems. The NACA and NASA have played a leading
   role in flight research for nearly a century. Expanding the Envelope
   tells the story of this effort from its origins soon after the first
   world war to the end of the twentieth century. Written by the
   well-respected aerospace historian, Michael H. Gorn, it provides the
   only serious study of this subject to appear in more than twenty years.
   It offers analysis, insight, and an exciting story well told. The NASA
   History Program is honored to have been able to assist in bringing this
   work to the aerospace historical community.

   The Eclipse Project by Tom Tucker is Monograph in Aerospace History
   #23. This monograph describes the Eclipse project involving Kelly Space
   & Technology, Inc., NASA's Dryden Flight Research Center, and the Air
   Force in flight testing a concept whereby a launch vehicle for a
   satellite could be towed to initial launch behind a transport airplane.
   Flight research with a C-141A as the tow aircraft and an F-106 as the
   simulated launch vehicle began in December 1997 and ended in February
   1998. The flights demonstrated that the concept was viable. Tucker has
   told the story in an interesting way that should make the monograph a
   joy to read. Monographs 2-23 are available by sending a self-addressed
   9x12"envelope for each monograph with appropriate postage for 17 ounces
   (typically $3.95 within the U.S., $5.05 for Canada, and $11.00 for
   overseas - international customers are asked to purchase U.S. postage
   through an outlet www.stampsonline.com) to the NASA History Office,
   Code ZH, Washington, DC 20546.

   Challenge to Apollo: The Soviet Union and the Space Race, 1945-1974
   (NASA SP-2000-4408, 2000) by Asif A. Siddiqi. This thousand-page,
   hardcover book is a truly pathbreaking study. Challenge to Apollo is
   the first comprehensive history to appear on the Soviet human space
   flight program since the opening of the archives in the early 1990s. As
   a result, it benefits from exceptionally strong primary source
   materials, as well as perspective on an important challenge that helped
   to define the U.S. space effort until the 1980s. Going beyond the basic
   facts, however, Siddiqi has created a gripping narrative that weaves
   together several broad interpretive themes. How to order: For sale for
   $79.00 (domestic postpaid), $98.75 (non-U.S.). By Mail: Superintendent
   of Documents, P.O. Box 371954, Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954. FAX: (202)
   512-2250. Phone: (202) 512-1800 (7:30 a.m.-4:30 p.m. Eastern time).
   This book also may be ordered on-line. Order stock number
   033-000-01231-4. This book may also be purchased from the NASA
   Information Center, Code CMI-1, NASA Headquarters, 300 E Street SW,
   Room 1H23, Washington, DC 20546-0001, (202) 358-0000 or on-line.

   Reconsidering Sputnik: Forty Years Since the Soviet Satellite (Harwood
   Academic Press, 2000) contains papers from an October 1997 conference
   on Sputnik cosponsored by NASA, the Smithsonian, and George Washington
   University. Edited by Roger D. Launius, John M. Logsdon, and Robert W.
   Smith, the collection includes essays by Walter McDougall, Sergey
   Khruschev, James Harford, Peter Gorin, and Asif Siddiqi. To order,
   please click here.

   New Electronic NASA History Resources

   Life in the Universe: Proceedings of a conference held at NASA Ames
   Research Center Moffet Field, California, June 19-20, 1979 (NASA
   CP-2156, 1981), edited by John Billingham. Readers may also go to our
   SETI page for more related information. Special thanks to Chris Gamble
   for formatting this volume for the Web.

   Apollo by the Numbers: A Statistical Reference (NASA SP-2000-4029) by
   Richard W. Orloff. This on-line version includes all the extensive text
   and useful tables of the hard copy edition. The author has also made a
   number of corrections to the data in the hard copy edition. The on-line
   version does not include the original photos. To purchase a hard copy
   edition of this book, click here. Special thanks to Rich Orloff himself
   for formatting this publication for the Web.

   Electronics Research Center (ERC) materials. A NASA field center that
   was located in Cambridge, MA and was only an official NASA facility
   from 1964 to 1970, the ERC conducted an amazing variety of work that
   was truly decades ahead of the state of the art. See historian Andrew
   Butrica's interesting fact sheet and bibliography. We hope to add more
   materials on this fascinating but little-known subject in the future.

   Lunar Impact: A History of Project Ranger (Washington, D.C.: NASA
   SP-4210, 1977) by R. Cargill Hall. As the preface begins, "Ranger was
   the first successful American project of lunar exploration." This
   robotic spacecraft project of the early 1960s laid the groundwork for
   Project Apollo and much future robotic space science work. Hall tells
   an engaging story, complete with failures as well as triumphs and the
   scientific, engineering, and political struggles in between. Special
   thanks go to volunteer Dirk Stoffels for formatting the text and images
   of this book for the Web.

   Shuttle-Mir Phase I Web Page. Produced in conjunction with the newly
   released NASA book authored by Clay Morgan entitled Shuttle-Mir: The
   United States and Russia Share History's Highest Stage (NASA
   SP-2001-4225), this Web site offers additional resources including
   on-line documents, text, videos, animation, interviews and audio that
   collectively chronicle the history of this unique program.

   Project Orion: A Design Study of a System for Detecting Extrasolar
   Planets (NASA SP-436, 1980), edited by David C. Black and formatted for
   web publication by Chris Gamble. Black discusses the motivation behind
   Project Orion which can perhaps be best understood by answering the
   question "Why is a search for other planetary systems important?"

   Skylab's Astronomy and Space Sciences (NASA SP-404, 1979), edited by
   Charles A. Lundquist. In addition to its well-known value as an orbital
   workshop that demonstrated the ability of astronauts to live in space
   for extended periods of time, the Skylab program also produced some
   significant scientific results. The Skylab crews' long times in orbit
   permitted them to make large contributions in areas such as
   far-ultraviolet astronomy and observations of the Comet Kohoutek.
   Special thanks to Chris Gamble for formatting the images and text of
   this informative volume for the Web.

   World Space Week: this event takes place from October 4-10 and
   commemorates the launch of Sputnik and the 1967 Outer Space Treaty.

   The Aeronautics and Space Report of the President, Fiscal Year 2000
   Activities is now on-line while the hard-copy version is at the
   printers. To view the "president's report" from previous years, click
   here.

   Space Suit Evolution. We are pleased to offer several useful NASA and
   cotnractor documents that cover space suit history from Project Mercury
   to the Space Shuttle. These documents were assembled into a single pdf
   file.

   The GReat Images in NASA (GRIN) photo database is now on-line at
   http://grin.hq.nasa.gov on the Web. This database contains over 1,000
   images, both heavily requested and less familiar, and is searchable by
   keyword, subject, field center, and other fields. The images are
   available in four formats: thumbnail, small, medium, and large,
   suitable for everything from quick visual reference to 300 dpi
   high-resolution images suitable for publishing. All the images are
   available electronically without charge, although please remember that
   some larger images may take a bit of time to download. To get started,
   we suggest reading the information at
   http://grin.hq.nasa.gov/howtouse.html on the Web. We plan to add images
   and adapt the system slightly in the future, but please feel free to
   let us know at histinfo@hq.nasa.gov if you find errors or would like to
   suggest images that we should add. Special thanks go to a variety of
   folks but especially Michael Hahn, Dwayne Day, Erin Needham, and John
   Betts for getting this system up and running in an attractive and
   functional way.
     __________________________________________________________________

                                    Roger D. Launius, NASA Chief Historian
   Steve Garber, NASA History Web Curator
   Site design by NASA HQ Printing & Design
   For further information email histinfo@hq.nasa.gov
   privacy statement
   Updated December 4, 2001
