http://www.pugetsound.med.va.gov/gen/privacy.htm

      Text Only Version Home  |  Search  |  Site Map  |  Visitor Center

                                 [logo.gif]

                         Privacy and Security Notice

   Privacy and Security Notice

      Of the information we learn about you from your visit to
      "www.puget-sound.med.va.gov," we store only the following:

      the domain name from which you access the Internet (such as "aol.com")

      the date and time you access our site,
      the type of browser software you use
      terms entered into our search engine,
      and the Internet address of the web site from which you direct-linked
             to our site.

      This information is used to measure the number of visitors to the
      various sections of our site and to help us make our site more useful
      to visitors. Unless it is specifically stated otherwise, no additional
      information will be collected about you.

      When inquiries are e-mailed to us, we store the question and the e-mail
      address information so that we can respond electronically. Unless
      otherwise required by statute, we do not identify publicly who sends
      questions or comments to our web site. We will not obtain information
      that will allow us to personally identify you when you visit our site,
      unless you chose to provide such information to us.

      E-mail sent to VA Puget Sound may be seen by a number of people who are
      responsible for answering questions. If the information specialist who
      answers the mail does not know the answer to your question, your query
      may be forwarded to another VA Puget Sound employee more experienced in
      that area. On occasion, we may conduct a study concerning the types of
      questions sent to us. These studies involve coding the queries to see
      if there are recurring problems that users are having in finding
      information. The knowledge gained by these studies is used to improve
      our Web site in order to make it more responsive to the needs of our
      users. We do not forward your mail outside of the VA nor do we collect
      your name and e-mail address for any purpose other than to respond to
      your query. Nevertheless; you should be aware that e-mail is not
      necessarily secure against interception. If your communication contains
      sensitive or personal information, you may want to send it by postal
      mail or communicate to us through our secure web site.

      About "Cookies"

      While visiting sites within the www.Puget-Sound.med.va.gov domain, you
      may occasionally encounter a web page that employs “cookies”. A cookie
      is a small file that a Web site transfers to your computer's hard disk
      allowing our server to "remember" specific information about your
      session while you are connected.

      Requests to send cookies from VA Puget Sound web pages are not designed
      to collect information about you, but only about your browser
      "session." The cookie makes it easier for you to use the dynamic
      features of these web pages. The cookie and the information about your
      session will be destroyed automatically shortly after you close your
      browser--it is not permanently stored on your computer. Unless an VA
      Puget Sound web page specifically notifies you otherwise, we will not
      collect and maintain personal information about you.

      To protect your privacy, be sure to close your browser completely after
      you have finished conducting business with a web site that uses
      cookies. If you are concerned about the potential use of information
      gathered from your computer by cookies, you can set your browser to
      prompt you before it accepts a cookie. Most Internet browsers have
      settings that let you identify and/or reject cookies.

      NOTICE: We will not obtain personally-identifying information about you
      when you visit our site, unless you choose to provide such information
      to us.

    This page last updated on 06/18/2001 .
    If you have difficulty accessing any material on this website, please
    contact us in writing or via telephone and we will work with you to
    make the information available.
    Contact Us |  Comments and Suggestions   |  Copyright  |  Disclaimer
    |  E-Mail This Link To A Friend  |  Privacy Statement
    VA National Web Site  |  VISN 20
