http://www.visn16.med.va.gov/disclaim.html


   US Flag with motto putting veterans first.
                     SCVAHCN
                   Home Page
                     Medical
                    Centers
                 Network Facts
                 Strategic Plan
                   Committees
                     Veteran
                    Services
              Patient Satisfaction
                   Hot Topics
                  Useful Links
                   Site Index
                   Text Only
                   Contact Us
              VA National Website
   [skip navigation]


                                 VA VISN 16



   Disclaimer

      Disclaimer of Endorsement: Reference herein to any specific commercial
      products, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer,
      or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement,
      recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government. The views
      and opinions of authors expressed herein do not necessarily state or
      reflect those of the United States Government, and shall not be used
      for advertising or product endorsement purposes.

      The appearance of external hyperlinks does not constitute endorsement
      by the Department of Veterans Affairs of the linked web sites, or the
      information, products or services contained therein. For other than
      authorized VA activities, the Department does not exercise any
      editorial control over the information you may find at these locations.
      All links are provided with the intent of meeting the mission of the
      Department and the VA web site. Please let us know about existing
      external links which you believe are inappropriate and about specific
      additional external links which you believe ought to be included.

      Disclaimer of Liability: With respect to documents available from this
      server, neither the United States Government nor any of its employees,
      makes any warranty, express or implied, including the warranties of
      merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose, or assumes any
      legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or
      usefulness of any information, apparatus, product, or process
      disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe privately
      owned rights.

      Notice: Information from this server resides on a computer system
      funded by the VA. The use of this system may be monitored for computer
      security purposes. Any unauthorized access to this system is prohibited
      and is subject to criminal and civil penalties under Federal Laws
      including but not limited to Public Laws 83-703 and 99-474.

      Reference from this Web page or from any of the information services
      sponsored by the VA to any non-governmental entity, product, service or
      information does not constitute an endorsement or recommendation by the
      VA or any of its employees. We are not responsible for the content of
      any "off-site" web pages referenced from this server.

   Reviewed/Updated: May 9, 2000


   Back to Top

   BACK HOME
