http://odp.od.nih.gov/consensus/news/upcoming/adrmass/adrmass_info.htm

   News and Upcoming Activities

   News and Upcoming Activities - Consensus Statements - State of the
   Science Statements - About the Consensus Program - CME Online - Search



   NIH State-of-the-Science Conference

   Management of the Clinically Inapparent Adrenal Mass (Incidentaloma)

   February 4-6, 2002

       Natcher Conference Center     National Institutes of Health
   Bethesda, Maryland

            Overview and Agenda Registration Travel & Lodging


   Overview
   General Information
   Sponsors
   Preliminary Agenda
   Registration
   Visitor Security

   go to the top of the page

Overview

   The National Institutes of Health (NIH) will convene a
   State-of-the-Science Conference on Management of the Clinically
   Inapparent Adrenal Mass (Incidentaloma), on February 4-6, 2002.

   The adrenals are triangular glands that sit atop each kidney. They
   influence or regulate the bodyís metabolism, salt and water balance,
   response to stress, and other important functions by secreting a
   variety of hormones. Adrenal masses are among the most common tumors in
   humans, occurring in at least 3 percent of persons over age 50,
   according to recent estimates. Most adrenal masses cause no health
   problems. A small proportion, however, can lead to a number of serious
   hormonal diseases, and approximately one out of every 4,000 adrenal
   tumors is cancerous.

   Clinically inapparent adrenal masses are discovered inadvertently, in
   the course of diagnostic testing or treatment for other conditions, and
   thus are commonly known as incidentalomas. Improvements in abdominal
   imaging techniques and technologies have resulted in the detection of
   an increasing number of adrenal incidentalomas.

   When detected, the clinically inapparent adrenal mass raises
   challenging questions for physicians and their patients. For example,
   should the mass be removed? Is a nonsurgical approach indicated? What
   risks are associated with either approach? Because the incidence of
   these masses increases with age, appropriate management of adrenal
   tumors will be a growing challenge in our aging society.

   Over the past several years, significant new information has become
   available regarding the epidemiology, biology, screening, treatment,
   and follow-up of adrenal tumors. For example, recent refinements in the
   field of minimally invasive general surgery have made laparoscopic
   adrenalectomy a widely used method for removing adrenal masses.
   Moreover, recent reports suggest that 5 to 25 percent of patients with
   adrenal incidentaloma have some form of subclinical hormonal
   dysfunction and may represent a population at higher risk for metabolic
   disorders and cardiovascular disease. It will be important to identify
   those groups with subclinical disease that will benefit from treatment.

   This two-and-a-half-day conference will explore and assess the current
   scientific knowledge regarding adrenal incidentalomas, so health care
   providers and the general public can make informed decisions about this
   important public health issue.

   After a day-and-a-half of expert presentations and public discussion on
   incidental adrenal masses, an independent non-Federal panel will weigh
   the scientific evidence and draft a statement that will be presented on
   the third day of the conference. Expert presentations, and the panelís
   statement, will address the following questions:
     * What are the causes, prevalence, and natural history of clinically
       inapparent adrenal masses?
     * Based on available scientific evidence, what is the appropriate
       evaluation of a clinically inapparent adrenal mass?
     * What criteria should guide the decision on surgical versus
       nonsurgical management of these masses??
     * If surgery is needed, what is the appropriate procedure?
     * What is the appropriate followup for patients for each management
       approach?
     * What additional research is needed to guide practice?

   The panel's draft statement will be posted to the Consensus Program Web
   site—http://consensus.nih.gov on Wednesday, February 6, 2002.

   go to the top of the page

General Information

   Conference sessions will be held in the Natcher Conference Center,
   National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland. Sessions will run
   from 8:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. on Monday, February 4, 2002, from 8 a.m. to
   12:45 p.m. on Tuesday, February 5, 2002 and from 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. on
   Wednesday, February 6, 2002. The telephone number for the message
   center is (301) 496-9966; the fax number is (301) 480-5982.

   The cafeteria in the Natcher Conference Center is located one floor
   above the auditorium on the main floor of the building. It is open from
   7 a.m. to 2 p.m., serving breakfast and lunch.

   go to the top of the page

Sponsors

   The primary sponsors of this meeting are the National Institute of
   Child Health and Human Development and NIH Office of Medical
   Applications of Research . Co-sponsors include the National Cancer
   Institute and the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and
   Kidney Diseases.

   go to the top of the page

Preliminary Agenda


   Monday, February 4, 2002

   8:30 a.m.

   Opening Remarks
   Duane Alexander, M.D., Director
   National Institute of Child Health and Human Development

   8:40 a.m.

   Charge to the Panel
   Barnett S. Kramer, M.D., M.P.H., Director
   NIH Office of Medical Applications of Research

   8:50 a.m.

   Conference Overview and Panel Activities
   Melvin M. Grumbach, M.D., Edward B. Shaw Professor of Pediatrics
   University of California, San Francisco
   Panel and Conference Chairperson.

   I. Overview

   9:00 a.m.

   Clinically Inapparent Adrenal Mass: A Challenge For Modern Medicine
   Stefan R. Bornstein, M.D., Professor of Medicine and Associate Director
   Department of Endocrinology
   University of Dusseldorf

   II. Methods

   9:20 a.m.

   Methods of the Evidence Report
   Joseph Lau, M.D., Director
   New England Medical Center Eveidence-Based Practice Center
   Tufts University School of Medicine

   III. Causes, Prevalence, and Natural History of Clinically Inapparent
   Adrenal Masses

   9:40 a.m.

   Adrenal Pathology and Causes of Adrenal Masses
   Clara S. Heffess, M.D., Chief
   Endocrine Division
   Armed Forces Institute of Pathology

   10:00 a.m.

   Prevalence and the Natural Course of Adrenal Incidentaloma
   Luisa Barzon, M.D., Research Associate
   Department of Histology, Microbiology, and Medical Biotechnologies
   University of Padova

   10:20 a.m.

   Changes in Diagnosis and Etiology
   Hironobu Sasano, M.D., Ph.D., Director
   Department of Pathology
   Tohoku University School of Medicine

   10:40 a.m.

   Discussion

   IV. Evaluation of Clinically Inapparent Adrenal Mass

   11:30 a.m.

   Test Performance for Evaluating Incidentaloma
   Ethan M. Balk, M.D., M.P.H., Assistant Director
   New England Medical Center Evidence-Based Practice Center
   Tufts University School of Medicine

   11:50 a.m.

   Endocrine and Biochemical Evaluation of Adrenal Incidentaloma
   William F. Young, Jr., M.D., Consultant
   Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism
   Mayo Clinic and Foundation

   12:10 p.m.

   Imaging of Adrenal Incidentaloma
   Melvyn Korobkin, M.D., Professor of Radiology and Director of Abdominal
   Imaging
   Department of Radiology
   University of Michigan Medical School

   12:30 p.m.

   Lunch

   1:30 p.m.

   Pathologic Evaluation of Adrenal Incidentaloma
   Ernest E. Lack, M.D., Professor of Pathology
   Department of Pathology
   Washington Hospital Center

   1:50 p.m.

   Discussion

   V. Surgical Versus Nonsurgical Management

   2:30 p.m.

   When Should an Adrenal Incidentaloma Be Operated OnóSurvey From the
   Italian Study Group
   Franco Mantero, M.D., Professor of Endocrinology
   Department of Endocrinology
   University of Padova

   2:50 p.m.

   Criteria for Surgery
   Anna A. Kasperlik-Zaluska, M.D., Ph.D., Professor of Medicine
   Department of Endocrinology
   Centre for Postgraduate Medical Education

   3:10 p.m.

   A Practical Algorithm for the Management of Adrenal Incidentaloma
   David E. Schteingart, M.D., Professor
   Department of Internal Medicine
   University of Michigan Medical School

   3:30 p.m.

   Discussion

   VI. Conventional Versus Minimally Invasive Surgery

   4:00 p.m.

   Adrenal Incidentaloma: Surgical Progress or Status Quo?
   Allan E. Siperstein, M.D.
   Staff Surgeon
   Department of General Surgery
   Cleveland Clinic Foundation

   4:20 p.m.

   Laparoscopic Adrenalectomy
   Robert Udelsman, M.D., M.S.B., M.B.A., F.A.C.S.,
   Lampman Professor of Surgery and Oncology
   Chairman, Department of Surgery
   Yale University School of Medicine

   4:40 p.m.

   Risk and Complication Rate of Different Surgical Techniques
   Michael Rothberg, M.D.
   New England Medical Center Evidence-Based Practice Center
   Tufts University School of Medicine

   5:00 p.m.

   Discussion

   5:30 p.m.

   Recess

   Tuesday, February 5, 2002

   VII. Followup of Adrenal Incidentaloma

   8:30 a.m.

   Evidence for Followup Strategies
   Joseph Lau, M.D., Director
   New England Medical Center Evidence-Based Practice Center
   Tufts University School of Medicine

   8:50 a.m.

   Long-Term Complications of Adrenal Incidentaloma
   Alberto Angeli, M.D., Full Professor of Internal Medicine
   University of Turin
   Head, Division of Internal Medicine
   Dipartimento di Scienze Cliniche e Biologiche
   San Luigi Hospital

   9:10 a.m.

   The Adrenal Incidentaloma: Followup and Public Health Dimension
   David C. Aron, M.D., M.S., Associate Chief
   Medical Service, Endocrinology Section
   Louis Stokes Cleveland VA Medical Center

   9:30 a.m.

   A Cost-Effectiveness Analysis
   Job Kievit , M.D., Ph.D., Director
   Department of Medical Decision Making
   Leiden University Medical Center

   9:50 a.m.

   Discussion

   VIII. Perspectives and Future Directions

   10:30 a.m.

   Novel Tumor Markers in the Adrenal Gland
   Sandra Ann Murray, Ph.D., Professor
   Department of Cell Biology and Physiology
   University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine

   10:50 a.m.

   Novel Biochemical Markers and Imaging Techniques
   Karel Pacak, M.D., Tenure-Track Investigator
   Pediatric and Reproductive Endocrinology Branch
   National Institute of Child Health and Human Development
   National Institutes of Health

   11:10 a.m.

   Subclinical Disease and Adrenal Registry
   Martin Reincke, M.D., Professor of Medicine
   University of Freiburg

   11:30 a.m.

   Discussion

   IX. Public Presentation

   12:00p.m.

   Presentations by Representatives of Interested Organizations
   (Organizations interested in making 5-minute presentations on the
   conference topic should contact Elsa Bray of NIH/OMAR by phone
   (301-496-4999) or email (elsabray@nih.gov) no later than January 14,
   2002. Please note that time for presentations is dependent on the
   number of respondents.)

   12:30p.m.

   Recess--Panel Meets in Executive Session

   Wednesday, February 6, 2002

   9:00 a.m.

   Presentation of State-of-the-Science Statement

   9:30 a.m.

   Public Discussion

   11:00 a.m.

   Panel Meets in Executive Session

   1:00 p.m.

   Press Conference

   2:00 p.m.

   Adjournment

   go to the top of the page

Registration

   This conference is open to the public, at no charge. On-site
   registration begins at 7:30 a.m. each day. However, we encourage you to
   REGISTER IN ADVANCE. You can register:
     * ONLINE--Click Here
     * By EMAIL to adrenalmass@prospectassoc.com with your complete name,
       mailing address and phone number. Please also provide the name of
       the conference for which you are registering.
     * By PHONE (301-592-3320) or FAX (301-593-9433) to Prospect
       Associates. Please provide your name, address, phone number, email
       address, and the name of the conference for which you are
       registering.

   Pre-registration will end at close of business on January 18, 2002.

   All conference registrants will be mailed a printed copy of the panel's
   final statement.

   If you are unable to attend the NIH State-of-the-Science Conference on
   the Management of the Clinically Inapparent Adrenal Mass
   (Incidentaloma) and would like a copy of the final statement, please
   forward your complete mailing address to adrenalstate@prospectassoc.com
   or call 1-888-NIH-CONSENSUS.

   The panel's draft statement will be posted to the Consensus Program Web
   site—http://consensus.nih.gov on Wednesday, February 6, 2002.

   go to the top of the page

Visitor Security

   The NIH has recently instituted new security measures to ensure the
   safety of NIH employees and property. All visitors should be prepared
   to show a photo ID upon request. Visitors may be required to pass
   through a metal detector and have bags, backpacks or purses inspected
   or x-rayed as they enter NIH buildings. Conference attendees may want
   to leave extra bags or personal materials at their hotel to minimize
   the time needed for inspection. For more information about the new
   security measures, please visit this website:
   http://www.nih.gov/about/visitorsecurity.htm


   go to the top of the page


   Overview and Agenda Registration Travel & Lodging

   Go to:

         [--Choose one--__________________]

                                           [bgo.gif]-Submit

   NIH - Consensus Page - NLM HSTAT


   NIH Home Page | Consensus Program Home Page | NLM HSTAT Home Page
