http://knoxville.fbi.gov/contact/fo/kx/hist.htm



   Graphic - FBI Seal

   FBI's Most Wanted - Knoxville

                               Link - History
                            Link - Press releases
                              Link - Locations
                                Link - Links
                               Link - Welcome
                               Link - Contact

   Knoxville Field Office, FBI

   History of the Knoxville Office

                             Picture of dogwoods

   FIELD OFFICE ESTABLISHED

   The FBI opened the Knoxville, Tennessee, Field Office on May 1, 1937.
   The first location for the office was in the HAMILTON NATIONAL BANK
   Building in Knoxville, and six Special Agents were originally assigned
   to this office. The Knoxville Field Office and its employees have
   investigated a variety of cases through the years. These cases, some of
   which are described below, illustrate the dedication of these employees
   in providing for the safety and protection of the citizens of Eastern
   Tennessee.

   1930s - 1940s

   Graphic - blueball One of the earliest cases investigated by the
   Knoxville Office was the kidnaping of Chattanooga Police Officer O. O.
   GRIFFIN. JOE POWELL, JAMES POWELL, DOROTHY KEY, and FLORENCE LONDON,
   who were identified as suspects in the kidnaping, were arrested June
   27, 1937, in Tampa, Florida.

   Graphic - blueball In November 1941, the Knoxville Office participated
   in the investigation of the murder of Mrs. JAMES HEADDEN, ARLENE
   DILLARD GLOWAN, and Mrs. GLOWAN's two year old son. The investigation
   led to the conviction and eventual execution of JAMES HEADDEN in March
   1943.

   Graphic - blueball By September 1942, the Knoxville Field Office had
   established its first two Resident Agencies (RAs). These satellite
   offices were located in Johnson City and Chattanooga, Tennessee.

   Graphic - blueball In July 1944, Special Agents assigned to the
   Knoxville Office arrested WALDERMAR OTHMER and charged him with
   espionage. OTHMER admitted that he had been trained in espionage in
   Germany in 1940, and had engaged in espionage in 1940 and 1941. On July
   31, 1944, he pled guilty and was sentenced in the Federal Court of
   Norfolk, Virginia, to twenty years for Violation of the Espionage
   Statute.

   1950s - 1960s

   Graphic - blueball KENNETH ALLEN KITTS, a notorious bank robber and
   escape artist, was arrested by Special Agents of the Knoxville Office
   on September 21, 1951. KITTS was apprehended at a road house named "THE
   THREE GABLES," near Fayetteville, Tennessee. Agents from the Memphis
   Field Office also participated in the arrest.

   Graphic - blueball On February 25, 1959, Knoxville Field Office Special
   Agents arrested LONAS RAY CAUGHORN, a six time prison escapee. On
   January 3, 1959, CAUGHORN had escaped from Georgia's BUFORD ROCK QUARRY
   PRISON, along with another inmate, by tricking a guard into letting
   them go free in a prison-guard truck.

   Graphic - blueball In August 1960, Civil Rights charges were filed
   against Chief Deputy Sheriff GEORGE SARTIN and his brother JOHN, a
   Deputy Sheriff, both of Roane County, Tennessee. The complainant,
   WILLIAM THOMAS FERGUSON, gave a detailed statement to Special Agents of
   the Knoxville Office alleging that he was arrested without a warrant
   and driven through five counties, during which time he was beaten and
   threatened. The subjects also forced him to falsely state that he had
   rigged voting machines in a local election. Both SARTINS were convicted
   on December 4, 1962.

   Graphic - blueball On March 4, 1964, JAMES RIDDLE (JIMMY) HOFFA was
   convicted in United States District Court, Chattanooga, Tennessee, of
   jury tampering after an investigation by the Knoxville Field Office.
   JIMMY HOFFA later disappeared on the evening of July 30, 1975. His body
   was never found, and he is presumed to be dead.

   Graphic - blueball UNITED AIRLINES Flight 823 crashed near
   Parrottsville, Tennessee, at approximately 6:15 p.m. on July 9, 1964.
   The crash killed all thirty-nine passengers and crew members. Special
   Agents from the Knoxville Field Office were immediately dispatched to
   investigate. Evidence indicated that the airplane had caught fire prior
   to the crash.

   Graphic - blueball On November 26, 1967, LOWELL BAILEY, a policeman at
   the METROPOLITAN POLICE DEPARTMENT, Washington, D.C., was shot and
   killed while he was parked on Unaka Mountain near Erwin, Tennessee. His
   wife, BEVERLY BAILEY, was kidnaped by the assailant and sexually
   assaulted. Special Agents from the Knoxville Field Office entered the
   investigation when the local law enforcement agency indicated the
   possibility that the victim had been taken into North Carolina and
   assaulted following her abduction in Tennessee. Special Agents
   identified the murderer as EARL HILL, JR. who was later located and
   apprehended by Special Agents from the Savannah, Georgia Field Office.

   Graphic - blueball On September 7, 1968, Special Agents from the
   Knoxville Field Office arrested two fugitives who had conducted a
   violent crime spree in Alabama and Tennessee. The two fugitives had
   robbed a family at gunpoint and raped a 26 year old woman who had given
   birth two weeks earlier. The two subjects were armed, had previously
   shot a police officer, and had escaped capture by driving a car at
   police officers who had been attempting to make an arrest.

   Graphic - blueball On November 14, 1969, OLAN MILLS, II, a Chattanooga,
   Tennessee, millionaire, was accosted by a gunman who kidnaped his
   pregnant wife and their two children and demanded that Mr. MILLS pay
   $10,000.00 for their release. Mr. MILLS contacted the Knoxville Field
   Office Resident Agency at Chattanooga, Tennessee. During the
   investigation, the getaway vehicle was identified by Special Agents,
   who then safely recovered the kidnap victims and apprehended the
   kidnappers.

   1970s

   Graphic - blueball Two heavily-armed bank robbery fugitives were
   arrested by Special Agents from the Knoxville Field Office on January
   13, 1973. The two were wanted for the robbery of two banks in Indiana.
   During one of the robberies, the subjects, who were armed with a sub-
   machine gun and a carbine, shot and killed a law enforcement officer.

   Graphic - blueball On December 22, 1976, six subjects suspected of
   robbing the UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS RESERVE CENTER ARMORY,
   Knoxville, Tennessee, were arrested as a result of an extensive
   investigation conducted by the Knoxville Field Office. Weapons stolen
   during the robbery were also recovered.

                   Animated pictures of historic buildings

   Graphic - blueball An investigation initiated by the Knoxville Field
   Office in July 1976, culminated in a thirty-five count indictment of
   JOHN M. BEELER, the Chairman of the Knox County Board of Commissioners.
   The Commissioner was accused of selling his vote regarding a landfill
   site to a company which stood to benefit for an up-front payment of
   $30,000.00 and a total of $87,000.00 in payments from January 1973 to
   October 1975. Commissioner BEELER was found guilty on all thirty-five
   counts of the indictment.

   Graphic - blueball On April 9, 1977, the CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK OF
   SEVIERVILLE located in Kodak, Tennessee, was robbed of more than
   $28,000.00 by two armed subjects, who killed three bank employees and
   one customer in an execution-style murder. As a result of an extensive
   investigation conducted by all employees of the Knoxville Field Office,
   both subjects were arrested within twenty-four hours, even though there
   were no witnesses to the robbery and murders.

   Graphic - blueball On June 10, 1977, JAMES EARL RAY, the convicted
   assassin of MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., and LARRY EDWARD HACKER, a
   convicted bank robber and an associate of þTop Tenþ fugitive WILLY
   FOSTER SELLERS, along with four other inmates, escaped from the BRUSHY
   MOUNTAIN STATE PRISON, Petros, Tennessee. Another inmate attempted to
   escape but was immediately captured by prison guards. The Knoxville
   Field Office immediately commenced an investigation. One escapee was
   captured near Flat Fork, Tennessee, after he was flushed out by a
   TENNESSEE HIGHWAY PATROL helicopter. LARRY EDWARD HACKER was located
   sleeping on a church pew at about 2:00 a.m. on June 12, 1977, and was
   arrested by a Knoxville Field Office Special Agent and two deputies
   from the Anderson County, Tennessee SHERIFF's DEPARTMENT. Another
   escapee was captured in New River, Tennessee, shortly before midnight.
   On June 13, 1977, JAMES EARL RAY was located by a bloodhound and
   captured near New River, Tennessee, about eight and one-half miles from
   the prison, shortly before 2:00 a.m. The fifth escapee was captured by
   the OAK RIDGE, TENNESSEE, POLICE DEPARTMENT later in the day. The last
   escapee was located after being tracked by two bloodhounds and was
   captured in New River, Tennessee, on June 14, 1977.

   1980s

   Graphic - blueball From May 1982 to October 1982, a Worldþs Fair was
   held in Knoxville, Tennessee. The event, known as "Expo '82," was a
   six-month World's Fair with the theme of "Energy." The Knoxville Field
   Office provided pre-planning assistance to the KNOXVILLE POLICE
   DEPARTMENT. The FBI, along with numerous federal, state, and local law
   enforcement agencies, provided security for the event. There were
   approximately 1,500 foreign participants attending the event,
   representing twenty-two foreign countries. During the World's Fair, a
   French artifact on loan from the LOUVRE MUSEUM, Paris, France, which
   was on display at the French Pavilion, was stolen. As a result of the
   Knoxville Field Office's investigation, the artifact was recovered and
   returned to the French Pavilion on June 30, 1982.

   Graphic - blueball In January 1983, the Knoxville Field Office
   initiated an investigation code-named "Mayban," a major white-collar
   crime investigation into the failure of several area banks and savings
   and loan associations. After a three year investigation, six subjects
   were indicted in connection with a bankruptcy fraud matter. The
   subjects were charged with conspiracy, bankruptcy fraud, mail fraud and
   wire fraud in relation to the failure of a twenty-six bank
   conglomerate, with assets totaling $3 billion dollars. Those convicted
   of the charges included JACOB FRANKLIN BUTCHER and CECIL H. BUTCHER.

   Graphic - blueball On March 27, 1985, in a joint operation carried out
   by the SWAT Teams of the Atlanta and Knoxville Field Offices, BRUCE
   CARROLL PIERCE was arrested in Rossville, Georgia, a suburb of
   Chattanooga, for the slaying of ALLEN BERG, a radio talk-show host in
   Denver, Colorado. At the time of his arrest, PIERCE was armed with
   three pistols and had just gotten out of a van filled with grenades,
   bombs, machine guns, automatic weapons, dynamite, blasting caps, and a
   crossbow and arrows.

   Graphic - blueball In May 1986, eleven principals of a narcotics
   trafficking group were indicted as a result of an undercover operation
   by the Knoxville Field Office. The subjects were members of the
   Peacemakers Motorcycle Club.

   1990s

   Graphic - blueball In February 1990, former Blount County Sheriff AVERY
   MILLS was convicted on 18 counts of the Hobbs Act. Appeals to the U.S.
   Supreme Court were denied on September 9, 1991. MILLS had received
   payments for providing protection to illegal prostitution activities in
   Blount County, Tennessee.

   Graphic - blueball In March 1990, the Knoxville Field Office began an
   undercover operation, utilizing an undercover police officer (MICHAEL
   LLOYD RECTOR), in the investigation of ROY LEE CLARK. CLARK was
   suspected of operating a major commercial auto theft business
   throughout the southeastern part of the United States. In April, 1990,
   Special Agents executed a search warrant on the business premises of
   ROY LEE CLARK. Special Agents assigned to the Knoxville Field Office
   were assisted by the TENNESSEE HIGHWAY PATROL, the KNOX COUNTY
   SHERIFF'S OFFICE, the KNOXVILLE POLICE DEPARTMENT, and the NATIONAL
   AUTO THEFT BUREAU. The search resulted in the removal of stolen goods
   valued in excess of $700,000.00. On May 31, 1990, MICHAEL LLOYD RECTOR,
   the undercover police officer was murdered in the front yard of his
   residence by an assailant firing numerous rounds at close range with a
   .9 mm semi-automatic pistol. ROY LEE CLARK was indicted on October 23,
   1991, for the murder of RECTOR and was later convicted of that crime.

   Graphic - blueball In November 1990, DAVID ALLEN COLLINS, a former
   election coordinator for the state of Tennessee, was convicted for his
   role in a conspiracy scheme to rig a bid for a state contract for the
   production and sales of ballot boxes to be utilized in state elections.
   Other subjects in this case, including former Tennessee Election
   Commissioner TOMMY POWELL, along with ROBERT EDWARD LONG and JACK
   RICHEY RODEN, pled guilty to charges in this matter.

   Graphic - blueball On July 12, 1994, FOAMX COMPANY, Morristown,
   Tennessee, pled guilty to a violation of the Resource Conservation and
   Recovery Act (an environmental crime). This case was based on the
   illegal disposal of the chemical methylene chloride by the FOAMX
   COMPANY. The company was fined $750,000 and paid $8.25 million dollars
   to clean up the hazardous chemical.

   Conclusion

   The Knoxville Field Office continues to aggressively investigate
   violations of federal law in Eastern Tennessee. If you are aware of
   violations of federal law, including those in the areas of white collar
   crime, public corruption, drugs, civil rights or violent crimes, please
   contact the Knoxville Office of the FBI.


       History Press Releases

                                                             Locations

       Links

               Welcome

                              Contact Us
