http://www.bisnis.doc.gov/bisnis/finance/020118MoscowFW.htm

                                       Moscow Financial Weekly



                                     For the Week Ending January 18, 2002

                Treasury Attache's office, US Embassy Moscow


Highlights This Week


   ·        Government and Central Bank agree on details of VTB
   privatization

   ·        CBR annuls MDM acquisition of Konversbank

   ·        Weekly Focus: Joint Government-Central Bank Banking Strategy:
   A Way Forward


Key Economic Indicators


Indicators

                                                        Level

                                                                     % chg 1 week

                                                                              % chg since Jan. 1

Ruble/$ (MICEX) UTS

                                                      R30.5788

                                                                         0.46

                                                                                     1.47

Monetary Base*

                                                     R701.9 bln

                                                                         -0.64

                                                                                     -0.3

CPI

                                                         NA

                                                                          NA

                                                                                    18.6**

International Reserves*

                                                      $36.7 bln

                                                                          0.00

                                                                                     0.55

RTS Index (end of week)

                                                       289.75

                                                                          -0.38

                                                               11.42

Refinancing rate

                                                         25

                                                                           0

                                                                                       0

   *For week prior

   **2001 figure



   Economic Developments


   According to Goskomstat, industrial growth was 4.9% (y-o-y) last year
   with the most impressive growth achieved in the microbiological
   industry -- up 82.3%.  Also notable was solid growth in the import
   substitution sectors such as food industry (up by 8.4%) and light
   industry (up by 5%).  However, the metallurgy industry contracted by
   0.2%, explained mostly by the unfavorable situation in world prices.


   Fears of inflation appear to be affecting the GOR’s tariff policy. The
   14% increase in the tariffs on rail cargo planned on January 20, has
   been postponed. At the same time the Cabinet has rejected the planned
   natural monopoly tariff increases set at 35% Gazprom  35%, 32% for UES
   and 26% for Railroads by the supposedly independent Federal Energy
   Commission.


   The Tax Ministry announced a 40% increase in federal tax collections in
   2001, with R982 billion paid in 2001 and R680 billion in 2000.


Banking sector


   The GOR and the CBR seem to have reached a compromise (painful for the
   CBR) on the Vneshtorgbank (VTB) privatization plan. Tatyana Razbash,
   Prime Minister Kasyanov's press secretary, said after the January 21 at
   the White House between Kasyanov and CBR Chairman Geraschenko that the
   two "had coordinated … plans for implementing the banking sector
   development strategy, particularly regarding VTB."  Reportedly, the CBR
   will now have to transfer ownership of VTB to the government prior to
   privatization, which the CBR had opposed strenuously.  It is also
   likely that additional VTB shares will be issued.  The EBRD will buy
   these shares, and in this way receive a 20% stake in VTB.


   In his first public appearance after his end-of-year vacation 64-year
   old CBR Chairman Geraschenko, who was expected to leave this post in
   September, hinted that he may stay for another term.


   The CBR invalidated the eighth issue of Konversbank shares, annulled
   its state registration and forbade any deals with these shares.  The
   reason for this, the CBR said, is the discrepancies found in the
   Konversbank's balance and mandatory economic norms calculations for Q1
   2001, as published in the issue prospectus.  Moreover, according to
   press, the CBR wants Konversbank Board Chairman Andrei Melnichenko to
   be ousted and replaced by Vladimir Schedrov, currently Vice-President
   of Roskhleboproduct.  CBR Deputy Chairman Vladimir Goriunov,
   reportedly, instructed Konstantin Shor, Head of the CBR Moscow Main
   Branch, to demand that Konversbank's CEO be replaced due to unveiled
   discrepancies.  If Melnichenko does not obey, the CBR may introduce
   temporary administration in Konversbank. However, MDM-bank says that
   Melnichenko (who is at the same time the Chairman of the Board of
   Directors of MDM-bank) has never received any official request from the
   CBR.  The MDM spokesperson also stressed that so far there had never
   been a case when the Central Bank insisted on replacing a bank CEO.
   "The entire story around Konversbank is dishonest competition aimed at
   removing the bank from the financial market," he said.


   According to Alexander Kochergin, head of international business at
   MDM-bank, MDM-bank is going to issue Eurobonds in late 2002 - early
   2003.  The initial issue will be for at least $100 million with
   additional tranches of at least $50 million, Kochergin said. He did not
   give the other parameters of the issue, explaining that it was
   difficult to determine this soon in advance.


   A special GOR commission has completed an inventory of banks in which
   the state or its institutions own 25% or more.  In 2001 the state
   divested from 11 such banks, and one more is in the process of
   liquidation.  At this point a total of 40 banks still have 25% or more
   state ownership.  The share of these 40 banks in the combined capital
   of the Russian banking system is 32.8%, but without Sberbank and
   Vneshtorgbank the share drops to just 5.17%.


   According to the CBR, the volume of sales of cash foreign currency by
   authorized banks to individuals in November 2001 reached $1,051
   million, an increase of 19% from the previous month. This was the
   highest monthly volume in 2001. At the same time, the volume of cash
   currency purchased by banks from individual went down 13% compared to
   the October figure to $660 million. The CBR also said that imports of
   cash foreign currency by authorized banks increased in November 2001 to
   $1145 million (5.1 times more than in October), while export of cash
   currency fell 39% to $85.36 million. As a result, net imports of cash
   currency went up over the month 12.5 times, to $1,060 million.  The
   demand for dollars signals that Russians do not trust that recent ruble
   stability will persist and in light of expected higher inflation and
   lower oil prices.



Financial markets


   Forex Market


   In the first half of the week demand for dollars remained high.  The
   CBR went on intervening in the MICEX UTS, selling up to $200 million in
   each morning session Monday through Wednesday at a rate well below the
   current interbank. On Thursday it suddenly shifted its offer to
   R30.59/$, allowing the ruble to depreciate 10 kopeks at once. The same
   morning it announced that reserves, against expectations of the market,
   had increased over the previous week by $200 million.  This plus
   pending tax payments reduced demand for dollars and the ruble
   stabilized around $30.58/$.


   For the week, the ruble weakened 0.46%, closing in the UTS on Friday at
   30.5788/$. MICEX weekly trade volumes were $1,017.28 million, $364.70
   million and $146.86 million for the morning (UTS), afternoon "tod" and
   "tom" sessions, respectively.


   [image003.gif]


   [image005.gif]



   Prices


   Inflation was up 1.2% during the first 14 days of the year. Average
   daily inflation is  0.083% this month up from 0.051% in December of
   last year, when price growth was 1.6%. It is roughly the same as
   January 2000 when the inflation was 2.8%.



   [image007.gif]



   Eurobonds


   Eurobond prices were volatile this week: falling initially due to lower
   world oil prices but then bouncing back on news of growth in
   international reserves.  Overall, the market ended up in the same place
   as the previous week, surprising most analysts who expected a
   considerable price drop as a result of currency market interventions.
   Trading volumes were high during the growth phase near the end of the
   week.



   [image009.gif]

   [image011.gif]


   Interest/Bond Market


   Bonds/Bills


   The secondary GKO/OFZ stagnated last week with trade volumes
   fluctuating at low levels.  Most of the liquidity slipped to the Moscow
   municipal debt market and corporate bonds that currently offer positive
   real yields.  However, yields were still falling slightly as a result
   of demand for paper ahead of the large GKO and OFZ redemptions.


   [image013.gif]


   Overnight rates


   Balances on banks' correspondent accounts at the CBR fell last week
   following scheduled  tax payments.  The minimum of R68.1 billion was
   reached on Wednesday, the lowest level since November 21, 2001.  On
   Thursday and Friday, balances grew albeit at low rates.  Despite the
   lower balances rubles were cheap on the overnight market - by Friday
   the overnight ruble rate was 3.66% p.a. (MIACR).


   [image015.gif]


   [image017.gif]



   Stock Market


   Last week the market was volatile, mimicking world markets.  The RTS
   index opened 3% down on Monday and throughout the week fluctuated in
   quite a broad range.  Institutional buyers supported the market's rise
   during the last two sessions of the week; however, the market was not
   able to pierce through the 290 level.  Overall, the index fell by 0.38%
   for the week in dollar terms -- the first "down" week in 2002.  Trading
   volumes were average.


   Of special note, many players last week were drawn to second-tier
   shares which is a positive sign of market broadening and increased
   liquidity.  Sberbank has reached new a new high, and regional telecoms
   and energos (second tier utility companies) were also up considerably.



   [image019.gif]


   [image021.gif]


   [image023.gif]



   International Reserves and Monetary Base


   International reserves stayed on the same level as last week,  $36.7
   billion.  Foreign debt payments will total $1 billion in January.


   The monetary base slid for the second week in a row and ending the week
   at R701.9 billion which is R4.5 billion lower than a week ago but still
   R32.8 billion higher than its level before the seasonal jump in the
   base.


   [image025.gif]



   Joint Government - Central Bank Banking Strategy:  A Way Forward


   The evolution towards consensus on bank reform in Russia reached
   another milestone with the final (if unpublicized) approval December
   30th of the Joint Strategy on Russian Banking reform.  The result of
   months of vigorous debate among GOR agencies, the CBR and private
   banking interests, the Joint Strategy draws an outline of Russia’s
   goals for the banking sector, and contains a number of specific
   proposals that could set the stage for progress in some areas.  This is
   not to say that the strategy necessarily signals broad political will
   for fundamental change in the banking system, or that interested
   parties have given up pushing their respective agendas.  The uneven
   levels of specificity in the strategy point to the fact that the
   battles between the GOR and CBR and between large banks and small banks
   are far from resolved.  Nevertheless, the joint strategy is an
   achievement compared with even one year ago, when bank reform was not
   even on the radar screen.  This week's focus looks at the strengths and
   weaknesses of the new strategy and whether it can form a credible basis
   for moving bank reform forward in a meaningful way.


Background


   2001 showed the first evidence of movement on bank reform. A number of
   modest bank regulatory reforms, the so-called IMF package, were
   approved via Duma legislation in June 2001.  These measures, among
   other things, specified criteria for removing bank licenses, broadened
   the power of regulators to monitor banks and bank holding companies,
   and increased the accountability of bank founders. But with no clear
   evidence that the Central Bank was improving its enforcement of new (or
   for that matter old) regulations, little change was discernable.  In
   September 2001, the Cabinet approved a preliminary banking sector
   development strategy.  The final joint strategy Kasyanov approved in
   December is slightly more ambitious and includes a timetable for
   specific actions to be taken in 2002.


What's in the Strategy – Key Features


   The Strategy states its main goals as ensuring stability, improving
   intermediation and restoring credibility of the system -- good goals
   but only to the extent they are backed up by concrete measures that are
   implemented on the ground.  The document is comprehensive in the sense
   that most major issues are at least mentioned, but some only
   cursorily.  In many cases vague language clearly represents an attempt
   to paper over differences between the GOR and CBR.


   The GOR's role in banking sector is a relatively large part of the
   strategy, but generally the text dances around the central issue of the
   role of Sberbank.  On the positive side the strategy restates the goal
   of liquidating the GOR's stake in banks where it owns less than 25
   percent (of which there are roughly 400), and selling off all other
   stakes in banks where it does not have a “strategic” interest.  Of
   course this won’t apply to the two biggest state banks Vneshtorgbank
   (VTB) and Sberbank.  VTB will apparently be transferred from CBR
   control to GOR control by January 2003 with a likely sale of a minority
   stake to the EBRD and possibly a strategic investor. The GOR would
   retain control. As for Sberbank, it will be included in any future
   deposit insurance scheme (though funded separately during a transition
   period), with the CBR retaining a controlling stake in Sberbank until
   it fully participates in deposit insurance.  The government will review
   the issue of Sberbank divestiture from the Central Bank at a later,
   unspecified time. The inclusion of Sberbank in the strategy at all is
   actually a step forward, as previous drafts did not even mention this
   issue.  The strategy also calls upon the government to increase its
   focus on Sberbank's loan policies and risk management by replacing
   representatives of Sberbank on the Supervisory Board with
   representatives of the government, a clear attempt to limit the
   influence of CBR over Sberbank.   Whether this will work or will reduce
   Sberbank’s distortionary effect on the market in any significant way is
   another question. It is fair to say that Sberbank’s loan policies
   benefit the government and its favorites, not just the CBR’s.  Finally,
   this section says flatly that the GOR will not create new state banks.
   Unfortunately, the section also states that it will divide VEB’s
   commercial and debt management functions, which, of course, would
   create a new state commercial bank.


   The issue of tax policy towards banks is rather light on specifics.
   The banks have been lobbying for some time to be treated the same for
   tax purposes as other businesses.  In a step in this direction, profit
   tax rates have been reduced from 43% to 24%.  However, it is unclear
   what kind of expenses in a banking context would be allowed for write
   off.  Banks have lobbied for loan-loss provisions and bad loans to be
   allowed as a deductible expense.


   On the issue of sector consolidation/minimum capital requirements,
   which dominated the debate with private interests, the Strategy
   represents a rebuff to the large banks. Minimum capital requirements
   for new banks will be set at 5 million euros (the large banks had
   originally pushed for $100M) but will not be applied to existing banks
   before 2007.  Instead low-capital banks will face a higher capital
   adequacy requirement of 10% starting in 2005 (the rest will join in
   2007).  The strategy also rejects other attempts to force consolidation
   by creating limited licenses for small banks.  On the whole the
   approach here seems to be balanced – smaller banks correctly point out
   that the main problem banks in the 1998 crisis were large, not small
   banks.  Still there is a legitimate case to be made that many of
   Russia’s 1300 do not act as real banks and that bank reform, and
   particularly improved supervision, should lead to sector
   consolidation.  The fact that capital adequacy will not be raised in
   the near term does not bode well for this scenario.


   Proposals on banking supervision are a good start, especially if
   rigorously implemented by the CBR (a big if).  Specifics on on-site
   inspections, IAS standards, consolidated reporting, better audit
   standards, streamlined reporting are all included in the strategy.
   There are references to meeting international, including Basel,
   standards. Capital adequacy ratios, which don’t come into effect until
   2007, as noted above are a notable weakness. Whether these proposals
   are carried out in a comprehensive, substantive way or piecemeal is of
   course crucial; the effectiveness of moving to new IAS accounting
   standards, for example, depends on whether better auditing and
   inspections get at the problem of banks submitting falsified data.  In
   any case, the strategy does put CBR on notice to strengthen banking
   supervision and spells out specific ways it should be done.


   To increase household deposits and create a base of long-term lending
   capital, the strategy relies heavily on deposit insurance to instill
   confidence in the banking system. This is also the main tool for
   leveling the competitive playing field with Sberbank.  The risk here is
   that deposit insurance is assumed to be a panacea and that it will
   proceed without proper attention to moral hazard or the potential
   contingent risks to the government.  So far it seems that the GOR is
   aware of these issues. It will impose higher accounting and capital
   standards for those banks participating in the initial voluntary
   phase.  In 2004 however, when IAS standards are imposed system-wide,
   the system becomes mandatory.   At this point the risk is that
   over-reliance on IAS accounting as protection against moral hazard
   could undermine the system if other supervision measures are not
   effectively implemented.


   On the issue of foreign bank participation, the strategy says the right
   things, if perhaps a bit too generally. The basic premise is that the
   Russian banking system needs more foreign participation and investment,
   but no timetable is given for any concrete proposals.  The strategy
   states that the government and CBR will not impose any quantitative
   restrictions on foreign participation in the banking sector, but
   without reference to the ambiguities in existing law.  Other statements
   imply, but don’t specify, national treatment for foreign banks --
   minimum capital requirements will be set at the same 5 million euros
   for both residents and non-residents, for example.


   The development of retail banking gets cursory treatment in the
   strategy, with stress on the risks and cost of things like mortgage
   lending, leasing, and consumer lending rather than the opportunities.
   The strategy does not seem to recognize retail banking’s central role
   in intermediating household savings in other economies.  Virtually the
   only specific proposal is to set the legislative basis for a mortgage
   securities market.  In the same way, lending to SMEs is not a focus of
   the banking strategy, ostensibly because of the perception that this is
   not a profitable business for banks.


   The strategy sets out a timetable for specific action in 2002,
   primarily the drafting of a number of new laws and amendments.  While
   this is an impressive list it seems possibly too ambitious in light of
   the GOR’s limited human resources to do the actual drafting.
   Furthermore the list makes the bank reform problem seem like primarily
   one of legislation, which it is not.  While this is the area most
   directly in the GOR’s capacity to control, bank reform will depend on
   implementation by a range of entities at all levels.


   Conclusion


   While the joint strategy represents a positive step, it is represents
   more of a framework for further debate on specific measures, than a
   real operational plan.  And even in some of the areas where specific
   proposals have in theory been agreed, fighting goes on. Undoubtedly
   more important to the future of bank reform will be the question of
   who, if anyone, replaces CBR Chairman Gerashenko when his term ends in
   September.  Still, a fragile framework is better than no plan at all
   and when changes in the political landscape open up opportunities to
   advance banking reform, Russia is now in a better position to seize
   them.







   EXPLANATORY NOTES


   1. EXCHANGE RATES: SELT - "System of Electronic Lot (currency) trading"
   -- a computer based OTC-style trading system organized by the Moscow
   Interbank Currency Exchange (MICEX).  "$-tod" price is the price of the
   dollar with same day delivery.  "$-tom" is the price of the dollar with
   delivery on the next day.  Minimum lot size for each of the dollar
   instruments is $100,000.  Average price is quoted as the weighted
   average of all actual deals entered into the system by various banks.


   2. INTEREST RATES: Moscow InterBank Actual Credit Rate is calculated as
   the average-weighted rate on the volume of actual transactions in
   interbank loans by commercial banks.


   3. STOCK INDICES: The RTS index is the only official indicator of the
   Russian Trading System.  It is calculated every 30 minutes of the RTS
   trade session, starting at 12:00.  It comprises 60 shares of 35 leading
   companies.  These shares are included in so-called Category "A"
   listings.  The index indicates over-the-counter stock prices.  The
   index represents the ratio of the total market capitalization of the
   shares of the companies selected for the index to the total market
   capitalization of the same shares as of the initial date multiplied by
   the index value as of the initial date (31 December 1997) using a base
   of 100 beginning September 1, 1995.  The ruble-adjusted index is a
   derivative of the main dollar index, using the same base.  The MICEX
   index is calculated by the stock section of the Moscow Interbank
   Currency Exchange and is based on the price fluctuations of 17 shares
   of the MICEX's first and second listings.


   4. INTERNATIONAL RESERVES OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION represent the
   amount of reserve assets of the Bank of Russia and Finance Ministry.
   Those reserve assets are comprised of monetary gold, special drawing
   rights, the reserve position in the IMF and other liquid foreign
   assets.  The latter include short-term deposits in non-resident and
   resident banks, balances in current accounts, foreign government
   securities, repo agreements with these securities made with
   non-residents, and other liquid assets (accrued interest on these
   assets is not included).  Monetary gold is evaluated at a floating
   rate, revised periodically, but not always reported immediately.
   Foreign currency assets are converted into U.S. dollars on the basis of
   the cross rates of foreign currencies to the dollar, calculated using
   the official rates of the ruble to these foreign currencies, as set by
   the CBR.


   5.  MONETARY BASE (M1) is comprised of cash and reserves of commercial
   banks on deposit in the CBR.  It is the basic part of the money supply
   (M2).


   6. Lombard Credits, distributed through auctions, are aimed to provide
   liquidity to the banking sector.  These credits are extended to banks
   on the basis of collateral.










   This report is provided courtesy of the Business Information Service
   for the Newly Independent States (BISNIS)

   [home.gif]
