http://www.businesslinc.sba.gov/indexaboutbusinesslinc.html

   This script checks for browser version.

   This script loads images.

   This script sets fonts and background colors. Skip to the main content.
   To SBA Home Page Nothing

   Reload BusinessLINC Home Page
   About BusinessLINC
   Protege Network
   Intermediaries
   Mentor Network
   Case Studies
   Contacts to Assist You
   Other and Outside Resources
   Send Comments
   Search BusinessLINC Area Only

            Home for this Area Your Previous Location if Java OK

                             About BusinessLINC

   What is BusinessLINC?
       On June 5, 1998 the BusinessLINC initiative was announced to
       encourage more private sector business-to-business linkages that
       enhance the economic vitality and competitive capacity of small
       businesses, particularly those located in economically distressed
       urban and rural areas. The name conveys the full range of
       business-to-business assistance programs. The LINC acronym stands
       for "Learning, Information, Networking, Collaboration." This is a
       joint effort between the Treasury and the SBA.
       Why was BusinessLINC formed?
       BusinessLINC is part of a continuing effort to highlight the
       importance of business investment in cities and distressed areas.
       It was formed to encourage the linkage of large businesses to small
       businesses. BusinessLINC identifies the best practices of
       business-to-business relationship strategies. The initiative will
       promote those strategies in an effort to reach small businesses
       with information about business-to-business relationship
       opportunities and to encourage large companies to participate is
       such business-to-business relationships.

                      Search SBA Home Page SBA Site Map

                                Related Items
             [---- Government Contracting & Business Devlopment]
                               Pick and Submit

                      | Privacy Policy | Web Comments |

                           *Last Modified: 8-6-01
