http://ecolloq.gsfc.nasa.gov/archive/2001-Fall/sched.html


                        Goddard Engineering Colloquia

                             Fall 2001 Schedule

   All colloquia are held at 3:30 p. m. on Mondays in the Building 8
   Auditorium, unless otherwise indicated below. Any changes in the
   schedule will be indicated on this page with the minimum possible
   delay.

   SPECIAL NOTE:  The Fall 2001 series is reduced in the total number of
   colloquia due to the refurbishment work on the Building 3 Auditorium
   and the consequent reduction in the number of available dates in the
   Building 8 Auditorium.

   NOTE: Readers are encouraged to print and post the announcements
   pointed to under "Topic" in the table below. For best printing results
   using Netscape Navigator, the suggested browser font size setting is
   12. For other browsers, it may be necessary to experiment. Feedback
   concerning printing problems would be welcomed by the author of these
   web pages.

   NOTE: Information to update the vacant slots in the table below will be
   provided as soon as it becomes available.

   Date  Topic  Speaker
   September 17
   (Moe I. Schneebaum Lecture)  From Satellites to Saris: Unlocking the
   Secrets of Climate and Human Health Rita Colwell
   Director, NSF
   September 24  William Gilbert and the Dawn of Modern Science  David P.
   Stern
   GSFC Retired, Emeritus
   October 1  Assembly and Advanced Servicing in Space Rud Moe
   NASA/GSFC
   October 8  No Colloquium (Columbus Day Holiday)
   October 15  Einstein's Unfinished Symphony Marcia Bartusiak
   Author
   October 22  No Colloquium (Bldg 3 and 8 not available)
   October 29  Creating a Bird and the Fifth Day Blues: Copying, Modeling,
   and Starting from Scratch Doug Warrick
   Minot State University
   November 5  No Colloquium (Bldg 3 and 8 not available)
   November 12  No Colloquium (Veteran's Day Holiday)
   November 19  The SMSI "Implant-Once-Read-Many" Real-Time Glucose Sensor
   Anthony Czarnik
   Sensors for Medicine and Science, Inc.
   November 26  No Colloquium (Bldg 3 and 8 not available)
   December 3  The Microwave Anisotropy Probe (MAP) Mission Liz Citrin
   NASA/GSFC
   December 10  "One Good Turn: A Natural History of the Screwdriver and
   the Screw" Witold Rybczynski
   University of Pennsylvania

   Return to Engineering Colloquium home page at
   http://ecolloq.gsfc.nasa.gov/

   Notice: Nothing appearing in these pages is to be construed as an
   endorsement by NASA.
