http://www.rtc.wa.gov/reports/misc/i5reccs-20011220.pdf

   The following document has been compiled from material on the I-5
   Transportation and Trade Partnership website. Included are: !" Working
   Draft Recommendations for Public Review, 12/20/2001 !" Working Draft
   Map of Recommendations, 12/20/2001 ìWorking Draft Strategic Plan
   Recommendations for Public Reviewî About this Document This document is
   a work-in-progress. It does not contain final recommendations. This
   document does contain working draft recommendations in the following
   areas: Corridor-Wide Freeway Capacity, Transit, River Crossing
   Capacity, Bridge Influence Area, Spot Improvements, West Arterial and
   Land Use. Following public input on these working draft
   recommendations, the Task Force is expected to discuss and adopt ìDraft
   Strategic Plan Recommendations for the I-5 Corridorî on January 29,
   2001. This document also highlights areas needing additional work
   before the Task Force adopts a ìFinal Strategic Plan Recommendations
   for the I-5 Corridorî in June 2002. Areas for additional work and
   recommendations include: the bridge and its influence area, land use
   agreements, transportation demand management (TDM) actions,
   environmental justice and community enhancements, rail improvements,
   and a financing and implementation strategy. The Task Force is
   continuing to work on these areas and will seek public input as they
   develop additional recommendations. The ìFinal Strategic Plan
   Recommendations for the I-5 Corridorî is expected to be adopted by the
   Task Force in June 2002, following further public input and discussion.
   The recommendations are expected to be a ìpackage deal.î They will be
   inter-related and contingent upon each other. The Task Forceís ìFinal
   Strategic Plan Recommendations for the I-5 Corridorî will be sent to
   the Oregon and Washington Transportation Commissions and to the
   metropolitan planning organizations in Portland and SW Washington for
   review and potential adoption into their transportation plans. After
   adoption, the environmental review and project development phase may
   begin. Introduction: Working Draft Strategic Plan The I-5 Partnership
   brought together Washington and Oregon citizens and leaders to respond
   to concerns about growing congestion on I-5. Governors Gary Locke and
   John Kitzhaber have Working Draft Strategic Plan For Public Review ñ
   December 20, 2001 1 appointed a bi-state Task Force of community,
   business and elected representatives to develop a Recommended Strategic
   Plan for the I-5 Corridor between I-84 in Oregon and I-205 in
   Washington. In developing the strategic plan, the Task Force has been
   guided by the following Problem, Vision and Values Statement. Problem
   The Interstate 5 Corridor is the most critical segment of the regional
   transportation system in the Portland/Vancouver metropolitan area. The
   Corridor provides access to many of the Regionís most important
   industrial sites and port facilities, and is a link to jobs throughout
   the Portland/Vancouver Region. Due to infrastructure deficiencies, lack
   of multi-modal options, land use patterns, and increasing congestion,
   businesses and individuals experience more frequent and longer delays
   in the Corridor. Without attention, the Corridorís problems are likely
   to increase significantly, further impacting the mobility,
   accessibility, livability and economic promise of the entire Region.
   Vision and Values This plan is a multi-faceted, integrated plan of
   transportation policies, capital expenditures, personal and business
   actions, and incentives to address the future needs of the I-5
   Corridor. The final plan, when implemented, will improve our quality of
   life by: !" Providing travel mobility, safety, reliability,
   accessibility and choice of transportation modes for users whether
   public, private, or commercial and recognizing the varied requirements
   of local, intra-corridor, and interstate movement; !" Supporting a
   sound regional economy by addressing the need to move freight
   efficiently, reliably, and safely through the corridor; !" Supporting a
   healthy and vibrant land use mix of residential, commercial,
   industrial, recreational, cultural and historical areas; !" Respecting
   and protecting natural resources including air quality, wildlife
   habitat and water resources; !" Supporting balanced achievement of
   community, neighborhood, and regional goals for growth management,
   livability, the environment, and a healthy economy with promise for
   all; !" Distributing fairly the associated benefits and impacts for the
   region and the neighborhoods adjacent to or affected by the Corridor;
   and !" Protecting our future with an improved and equitable balance of:
   livability, mobility, access, public health, environmental stewardship,
   economic vitality and environmental justice. Overall Recommendation
   Physical improvements in the I-5 Corridor, beyond those already in the
   regionís transportation plans, are warranted and necessary to meet the
   transportation, economic, and livability needs of the
   Portland/Vancouver Region. These working draft recommendations are
   designed to address those needs. The specific plan elements follow.
   Working Draft Strategic Plan For Public Review ñ December 20, 2001 2
   Plan Elements I. Corridor-Wide Freeway Capacity a. Working Draft
   Recommendation: 1. The Task Force considered expanding the capacity of
   the Corridor to 4 through lanes in each direction, but does not
   recommend this option. 2. The I-5 freeway between the Fremont Bridge in
   Portland and the I-205 interchange in Vancouver will be a maximum of 3
   through lanes in each direction. This includes widening I-5 to 3 lanes
   between: a) Delta Park and Lombard (see Section V.a.1) and b) 99th St.
   to I-205 in Vancouver. 3. One of the 3 through lanes may be designated
   for use as a high occupancy vehicle (HOV) lane during the peak period,
   in the peak direction. b. Additional Work: 1. The Task Force will
   develop and make recommendations on the potential use and extent of HOV
   through the I-5 Corridor (including the use of trucks in HOV lanes) in
   the Spring of 2002 after further public input and discussion. II.
   Transit Capacity a. Working Draft Recommendations: 1. A light rail loop
   system, including feeder buses, and new and expanded park and ride
   lots, should be established in Clark County. In the interim, bi-state
   transit needs will continue to be served by express bus. 2. The light
   rail loop system should provide transit mobility, both within Clark
   County and between Washington and Oregon, in the I-5 and I-205
   corridors. 3. The light rail loop system may be constructed in phases.
   4. Peak-hour, premium express bus service in the I-5 and I-205
   corridors to downtown Portland and to markets not well served by light
   rail should be provided as a supplemental service to light rail. 5.
   Transit service in the Corridor should be increased over the next 20
   years as planned in the Metro and RTC 20-year transportation plans.
   III. River Crossing Capacity a. Working Draft Recommendations: 1. New
   transit and vehicle capacity should be constructed across the Columbia
   River in the I-5 Corridor. 2. For vehicles, there should be no more
   than 3 through lanes in each direction and up to two supplemental lanes
   (auxiliary or local access) in each direction across Working Draft
   Strategic Plan For Public Review ñ December 20, 2001 3 the Columbia
   River (total 5 lanes in each direction). For transit, there should be
   two light rail tracks across the Columbia River in the I-5 Corridor. 3.
   In adding river-crossing capacity, every effort should be made to avoid
   displacements and encroachments. 4. The proposed design should include
   safety considerations. b. Additional Work (January ñ June 2002): 1. The
   Task Force will discuss and formulate a recommendation on whether the
   joint-function, river crossing should be on one structure or two, as
   part of the Implementation and Finance Plan. (See Section X, below.) 2.
   Whether the new capacity is on a replacement bridge or supplemental
   bridge will be decided by the Task Force after further public input and
   discussion. IV. Bridge Influence Area: SR 500 to Columbia Blvd.
   (Including Vancouver Interchanges) a. Working Draft Recommendation: 1.
   Between the SR 500 and Columbia Blvd. interchanges, the freeway needs
   to be designed to balance all of the on and off traffic, consistent
   with 3 through lane Corridor capacity and 5 lanes of bridge capacity,
   in each direction. b. Notes 1. This 4-mile section has the highest
   concentration of interchanges and traffic entering and exiting the
   freeway. Over half the traffic crossing the I-5 bridge begins or ends
   the I-5 portion of its trip between the SR 500 interchange in Vancouver
   and the Columbia Blvd. interchange in Portland. 2. In adding
   river-crossing capacity, every effort should be made to avoid
   displacements and encroachments. c. Additional Work (Jan-June 2002): 1.
   The Task Force directs staff to present a solution or solutions that
   balance the following: minimizing the disruption to neighborhoods and
   the environment while matching bridge and freeway lane configurations,
   addressing merging and weaving problems, and safely and efficiently
   moving traffic on and off the freeway. This includes the entire
   SR500/I-5 interchange. Staff shall work collaboratively with the
   community to identify and develop new conceptual designs for the
   interchanges. These will be prepared and reviewed by the Task Force in
   the Spring of 2002. 2. The Task Force will then develop and make
   recommendations for I-5 between SR 500 and Columbia Blvd., after
   further public input and discussion. Working Draft Strategic Plan For
   Public Review ñ December 20, 2001 4 V. Spot Improvements a. Working
   Draft Recommendations: 1. I-5 should be widened to three through lanes
   in each direction between the Delta Park and Lombard interchanges in
   Oregon. This project should go to construction as quickly as possible.
   2. The Columbia Blvd. interchange in Oregon should be made into a full
   interchange (add ramps for southbound traffic to exit at Columbia Blvd.
   and for northbound traffic to enter the freeway from Columbia Blvd.).
   3. Both the Delta Park to Lombard project and the Columbia Blvd.
   interchange project should be considered for design at the same time.
   As part of this design effort, there needs to be a phasing and
   financing plan, with the recognition that the Delta Park project is the
   first priority. 4. The transportation issues south of the I-5/Fremont
   Bridge junction must be addressed and solved. The Mayor of Portland,
   the Governor of the State of Oregon, and JPACT should join together to
   appoint a group of public and private sector stakeholders to study and
   make recommendations for long-term transportation solutions for the
   entire I-5/I-405 freeway loop. Working Draft Strategic Plan For Public
   Review ñ December 20, 2001 5 VI. Land Use a. Working Draft
   Recommendations: 1. To protect existing capacity and support economic
   development, jurisdictions and agencies in the Corridor need to agree
   on a plan to manage land development to avoid adversely impacting I-5
   or the Regionís growth management plans. 2. Before construction of any
   additional cross-river transportation capacity is initiated in the
   Corridor, jurisdictions and agencies must have a documented,
   complementary understanding for a functionally integrated, regional
   transportation and land use system. b. Notes: 1. The Portland/Vancouver
   regionís transportation and land use systems are integrally related,
   each impacting and influencing the other. 2. Each jurisdiction has the
   right and responsibility to control its own planning, development and
   enforcement processes. 3. Effectively managing the transportation/land
   use relationship is critical to: a) efficiently and fairly using
   transportation capacity, b) supporting each governmentís adopted growth
   management plans, and c) preserving and protecting the sizeable public
   investment in the Regionís transportation system. 4. As land values in
   the Corridor increase, especially around interchanges and transit
   station areas, requests for zone changes are likely. Unless action is
   taken now, the Corridorís transportation and economic development
   opportunities will erode, especially with the loss of industrial lands.
   c. Additional Work (Jan-June 2002): 1. Prior to June 30, 2002, the Task
   Force will develop a Model Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) to
   preserve the I-5 Corridorís transportation system, especially for
   trade. The model IGA will focus on protecting the capacity and
   functionality of interchanges and transit station areas even if no
   cross-river transportation capacity is added now. 2. Prior to June 30,
   2002, the Task Force will outline the key elements of Comprehensive
   Regional Accord to achieve the fundamental goals for a functionally
   integrated, regional transportation and land use system. As the post-
   Task Force planning process proceeds, local jurisdictions whose land
   use decisions may impact the Corridor, will further develop and agree
   to a workable Accord before new cross-river transportation capacity is
   added to the Corridor. Working Draft Strategic Plan For Public Review ñ
   December 20, 2001 6 VII. Transportation Demand
   Management/Transportation System Management (TDM/TSM) a. Working Draft
   Recommendation: 1. Transportation demand management and transportation
   system management actions are important, need to be consistent, and
   will be made a part of the ìFinal Strategic Plan Recommendations for
   the I-5 Corridor.î b. Additional Work (Jan-June 2002): 1. The Task
   Force will develop recommendations by the Spring of 2002 for bi-state
   TDM/TSM actions to be implemented in the Corridor before new
   cross-river transportation capacity is added. 2. The Task Force will
   further explore the use of congestion pricing as one of the tools for
   managing demand. VIII. Freight and Passenger Rail a. Additional Work
   (Jan-June 2002): 1. Work is currently underway to identify the capital
   and operating needs of the freight and passenger rail system. This work
   is expected to be complete in April 2002. 2. As part of the freight and
   passenger rail analysis, the estimated cost, ridership, and viability
   of a commuter rail system will be completed, and following public
   input, discussed by the Task Force. 3. The Task Force will develop and
   recommend a plan for improving Corridor heavy rail in the Spring of
   2002 after further public input and discussion. IX. Environmental
   Justice and Community Enhancements a. Additional Work (Jan-June 2002):
   1. The Task Force recognizes the need to address environmental justice
   and community concerns resulting from these working draft
   recommendations. The Task Force directs project staff to: a) continue
   conducting the environmental justice analysis, b) work with the
   affected communities to collaboratively explore potential community
   concerns regarding these working draft recommendations and c) develop
   measures to address those concern, such as neighborhood connectivity, a
   community foundation, air quality monitoring, etc. As a part of
   addressing environmental justice and community enhancements, a plan for
   addressing the needs of local streets will also be developed. 2. The
   Task Force will develop and recommend a plan based on the environmental
   justice analysis and community concerns in the Spring of 2002 after
   further public input and discussion. Working Draft Strategic Plan For
   Public Review ñ December 20, 2001 7 X. Implementation and Financing
   Strategy a. Additional Work (Jan-June 2002): 1. An implementation
   strategy describing the phasing of improvements, TDM/TSM actions, and
   land use actions needs to be developed. The Task Force will develop and
   recommend an implementation strategy in the Spring of 2002 after
   further public input and discussion. 2. Capital and operating costs of
   the working draft recommended improvements, even for improvements
   already in regional transportation plans, will likely exceed expected
   revenues. The Task Force will develop and recommend a financing
   strategy in the Spring of 2002 after further public input and
   discussion. XI. West Arterial Road a. Working Draft Recommendation: 1.
   No further study of the option at this time, however, this alternative
   should be identified as a potential transportation solution for
   consideration in the future. b. Notes: 1. This option has several
   benefits to the regional transportation system including: relieving
   traffic on I-5, providing an additional connection between Oregon and
   Washington, relieving the St. Johns neighborhood of through truck
   traffic, and providing an efficient south-north arterial for a) freight
   movement between key industrial areas in the Portland/Vancouver area
   and b) other traffic in North Portland. 2. However, the traffic impacts
   to Vancouver neighborhoods and the downtown Vancouver district are
   significant. It is very likely that arterial roads leading to this new
   connection would need to be widened to accommodate the traffic
   traveling between the West Arterial Road and the freeway. The widening
   of these arterial roads would be detrimental. XII. Additional Elements
   and Strategies Considered 1. As part of the Task Forceís work it
   considered many potential elements and strategies that are not
   specifically commented upon in this draft document. They include:
   addressing the corridorís problems with land use actions and/or
   transportation demand management alone, a new freeway with bridge
   outside the I-5 corridor (East of I-205, West of I-5) to connect Oregon
   and Washington, monorail, personal rapid transit, hovercraft buses,
   people-movers, water taxi, ferry, helicopters, gondola, etc. The Task
   Force also considered various combinations of the elements and
   strategies noted. 2. If you would like more information about those
   topic or have additional ideas, comments or concerns, please visit the
   project web site at: www.I-5partnership.com or call us at
   1-866-STUDYI-5. Working Draft Strategic Plan For Public Review ñ
   December 20, 2001 8 XIII. Next Steps: !" Public Open Houses ñ to give
   input on these Working Draft Strategic Plan Recommendations January 14,
   2002 January 16, 2002 4:30 - 8:00 p.m. 4:30 - 8:00 p.m. Hudson's Bay
   High School Commons Kaiser Town Hall 1206 E Reserve St. 3704 N.
   Interstate Ave. Vancouver Portland !" Community Forum Meeting ñ to give
   input on these Working Draft Strategic Plan Recommendations January 12,
   2002 9 a.m. - Noon Leupke Center 1009 E. McLoughlin Blvd. Vancouver. WA
   !" Task Force Meeting ñ Adoption of Draft Strategic Plan
   Recommendations January 29, 2002 3:30 ñ 7:30 p.m. Leupke Center 1009 E.
   McLoughlin Blvd. Vancouver, WA !" Further Public Input and Task Force
   Work: February through June 2002 !" June 2002 - Task Force Adoption of
   Final Strategic Plan Recommendations Working Draft Strategic Plan For
   Public Review ñ December 20, 2001 9 HOV ... High occupancy vehicle
   Working Draft 5 LRT .... Light rail transit NB ..... Northbound 134th S
   Strategic Plan t. SB ..... Southbound Recommendations for the I-5
   Corridor 205 3 lanes, 99th St. 0 1 2 to I-205 Miles 99th St Rd
   Vancouver St Johns 78th St Lake Rd eAv 5 St Andreson 162nd C o Main 500
   l u Phased m b light rail i a VANCOUVER loop Fourth Plain Blvd Provide
   new transit and vehicle capacity in the I-5 Corridor, with Mill up to 2
   additional lanes in each Plain Blvd direction for vehicles, plus light
   rail tracks Marine Bridge Influence Area: between SR 500 and D Columbia
   Blvd. interchanges. Balance bridge r and freeway capacity, address
   merge and 14 weave, avoid displacements, and safely 205 move traffic R
   i v e Columbia r Blvd 3 lanes, Delta Park Columbia Blvd. ramps: Lom to
   Lombard St. NB on-ramp, SB off-ramp bard S Byp. t 30 Columbia Lombard W
   Portland 99E Blvd S i t l l Blvd a m ette Killingsworth St Going St 30
   Fremont R St i v e e Av r 84 Blvd Sandy 82nd Broadway 84 405 Burnside
   Rd Existing / planned LRT PORTLAND Also included: Peak-period 26
   express bus service as a 99E supplement to LRT, along ON DEPA RT G M E
   E R N with increased local bus O T Washington State OF N Department of
   Transportation service T 5 RANSPORTATIO
