http://www.tasc.dot.gov/personnel.html

             TASC Security Services Search


                                             __________
                                    Department Of Transportation

   Home Archives Online Directory Service Request


   PERSONNEL SECURITY

   Executive Orders 10450 and 12968 signed by the President of the United
   States govern Personnel Security. These orders establish a personnel
   Security program in each executive agency and the requirement that all
   employees are subject to a security investigation of their background.
   The orders also establish requirements for issuing security clearances,
   due process procedures, oversight by the Office of personnel
   management, and other various regulations. The Orders have been
   implemented into policy via the Code of Federal Regulations, DOT
   departmental orders, and DOT security bulletins. TASC Security
   Operations personnel perform various services as required in the
   Personnel Security Program.

   Security and Suitability Investigations

   DOT employees and contractors undergo a background investigation
   commensurate with the level of sensitivity assigned to their position.
   The background investigation evaluates the background, history, and
   character of each individual. Security clearances and suitability
   determinations result from completed investigations. The Office of
   Personnel Management and the Security Policy Board establish
   investigation requirements including specific time coverage and costs.

   Initiating Investigations

   TASC Security Operations initiates all investigations on positions
   designated Noncritical Sensitive or higher, as well as contractor
   personnel investigations. Personnel offices initiate the Low Risk or
   Non-Sensitive investigations. Paperwork is submitted to the Office of
   Personnel Management, which has been designated by Executive Order to
   conduct the investigations for civilian agencies. Specific paperwork is
   required for each investigation. For further information, please
   contact Evie Burch at (202) 366-4693.

   Adjudicating Investigations

   The adjudication process requires that a trained security specialist
   review information obtained as part of any investigation. The
   adjudicator reviews all information and determines if there is any
   information that would adversely affect the appointment of the
   individual. Adjudications involve both security and suitability
   determinations. A security determination is made with standard
   adjudication guidelines, and a decision is made whether the individual
   can hold a security clearance. The suitability determination process is
   a review of information to determine if the individual is suitable for
   the position for which they were hired. The personnel officer makes all
   final suitability decisions for the modal administration.

   Position Sensitivity Review Services

   Position sensitivity reviews are conducted routinely to ensure that
   correct position sensitivity has been assigned to positions within a
   particular administration. These reviews also check that the person has
   the appropriate investigation/clearance for the position. Coordination
   with personnel offices is made to correct deficiencies found in the
   review.

   Security Clearance Services

   Security Clearances are granted to individuals requiring access to
   national security or other sensitive classified information. A request
   for a security clearance is submitted to TASC Security Operations for
   processing. The request must contain the level of clearance needed and
   a justification of need for the clearance. The level of clearance
   should be kept to the lowest level needed for the individual to perform
   the job. This provides a cost-savings, as the lower the level of
   clearance, the lower the level of investigation required.

   A trained personnel security specialist reviews all available records
   to determine what checks or additional investigative coverage is needed
   to process the request. After the individual has been determined to
   meet the standards required for the investigation, the security
   clearance is granted, and the individual briefed on specific
   responsibilities in handling classified information. Access to
   information protect from public release is considered classified. The
   degree of damage that could be caused by such release dictates the
   level of classification.

   Classified Information

   Executive Order 12958 and DOT 1640.4D, Classified Information
   Management Manual, govern Information Security and outlines
   responsibility for handling and controlling classified information and
   materials. Information that requires protection, depending on the
   degree of damage the release could cause to agency mission and
   functions, is classified. Classified Information may only be released
   to individuals with a need-to-know and who have the appropriate
   security clearance.

   Classified Document Control Services

   TASC's Security Control Point monitors all Secret and Top Secret
   documents for all modal administrations except the Federal Aviation
   Administration (FAA) and the United States Coast Guard (USCG0. All
   incoming classified documents receive a control number assigned by a
   computerized system. That system monitors the location of the document,
   the person assigned responsibility for the document, and the control
   number. Confidential documents are not required to be monitored;
   however, they still require protection.

   Destruction of Classified and Sensitive Material

   Executive Order 12958 and DOT 1640.4D require the return of classified
   material to the Security Control Point for destruction. TASC Security
   Operations provides service to DOT in the destruction of classified and
   sensitive documents.

   To obtain further information on any of the services we provide
   regarding classified information, please contact Evie Burch at (202)
   366-4693.


        Home | Archives| On-line Directory | Service Request | Search

   TASC
   Nassif Building
   400 Seventh Street, SW
   Washington, D.C. 20590-0001
   Voice: 202-366-4747 TTY: FAX:
