http://prg.nci.nih.gov/gyno/finalreport.html


   [USEMAP:prg_uninav.gif]


   Gynecologic Cancer
   Home
   Final Report
   PRG Charge
   Roster
   Meetings
   Research Portfolio
   Initiatives
   Member's Only

   ____________________   Search

         Priorities of the Gynecologic Cancer Progress Review Group

                                November 2001

                      (Click here to view in PDF format)

     Co-Chairs: William Hoskins, M.D.; Nicole Urban, Sc.D.

     Executive Director: Edward C. Trimble, M.D., M.P.H.
       _______________________________________________________________

     Table of Contents

     From the Leadership

     Acknowledgments

     Introduction

     Background

     Process

     Overview of Priorities

     Priorities

     Essential Research Priority: The Virtual Shared Specimen Resource

     High-impact Research Priorities

     Molecular profiling for markers of risk, early detection, and
     treatment

     Human papillomavirus vaccines

     Quality of life; Disparities related to care

     Scientific Opportunities

     Conclusion

     Appendix: Full Reports of the GYN PRG Breakout Groups

     Health-Related Quality of Life and Survivorship

     Clinical and Molecular Genetics

     Defining Signatures of Cancer Cells, Genomics, Proteomics, and
     Informatics

     Treatment and Drug Discovery

     Immunology

     Radiobiology

     Laboratory and Clinical Models

     Health Disparities, Communication, Education, and Quality of Care

     Genes and Environment

     Imaging

     Tumor Biology, Hormone Receptors, Epithelial-Stromal Interactions,
     and Early Activation

     Angiogenesis, Metastasis, and Growth Signaling

     Early Detection, Screening, and Prevention

     Treatment, Clinical Trials, Gene Therapy, Staging, and Surgery

     Cervical cancer

     Endometrial cancer

     Ovarian cancer
       _______________________________________________________________

FROM THE LEADERSHIP

     It is a great pleasure to submit this Report of the Gynecologic
     Cancers Progress Review Group (GYN PRG) to the Acting Director and
     Advisory Committee to the Director of the National Cancer Institute
     (NCI). At the beginning of 2001, the GYN PRG accepted the charge of
     NCI Director Dr. Richard Klausner to develop a national plan for the
     next five years of gynecologic cancer research. The expertise of the
     GYN PRG members and the clinical, research, industrial and advocacy
     community participants of the GYN PRG Roundtable Meeting met that
     charge with this report. It reflects innovative research strategies
     that represent the next steps toward preventing, diagnosing and
     treating gynecologic cancers. We look forward to discussing these
     priorities with the leadership of the NCI.


     William J. Hoskins, M.D.
           PRG Co-Chair
     Memorial Sloan Kettering
           Cancer Center

                              Nicole Urban, Sc.D.
                                 PRG Co-Chair
                                Fred Hutchinson
                             CancerResearch Center

                                                   Edward C. Trimble, M.D.
                                                   PRG Executive Director
                                                  National Cancer Institute

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

     This report is the product of 11 months of intense work that drew on
     the combined expertise and efforts of many individuals. The Progress
     Review Group (PRG) particularly acknowledges the contributions of:
     * The many scientists, clinicians, and advocates across the country,
       who gave of their time and knowledge and were an integral part of
       making this report a successful document that should help advance
       research in gynecologic cancers.
     * Staff of the NCI Office of Science Planning and Assessment (OSPA),
       under the leadership of Cherie Nichols, who provided ongoing
       guidance and technical support throughout the PRG process - in
       particular, Deborah Duran and Anna Levy, who coordinated the PRG,
       as well as Kevin Callahan, James Corrigan, and Annabelle Uy.
     * A group of experienced science writers, who provided excellent
       writing support both during the Roundtable Meeting and the
       subsequent development of the PRG report: Deborah Shuman, Nancy
       Volkers, Randi Henderson, Alice Lium, Cheryl Pellerin, Barbara
       Shapiro, and Cheryl Ulmer.
     * Josette James, Audrey Thomas, and their colleagues at Palladian
       Partners, Inc., who provided excellent logistical support to the
       PRG.
     * David Louis, Co-Chair of the Brain Tumor Progress Review Group, for
       his presentation to Roundtable participants.

                                INTRODUCTION

BACKGROUND

     Cervical, endometrial, and ovarian cancers represent 95 percent of
     gynecologic cancers and collectively rank fourth in both incidence
     and mortality among cancers that affect women. It is estimated that
     80,300 women in the United States will be diagnosed with a
     gynecologic cancer (cancers of the cervix uteri, corpus uteri, and
     ovary) in 2001 and an estimated 26,300 will die of these diseases.
     Thus, gynecologic cancers will account for 14 percent of all solid
     tumors in women and 11 percent of deaths from them. Worldwide,
     gynecologic cancers account for an even larger share of cancer
     mortality in women. In nonindustrialized countries, cervical cancer
     screening is minimal; consequently, this disease is a major cause of
     cancer deaths, second only to breast cancer in incidence and
     mortality. These three cancers have in common their origin in the
     organs of the female reproductive system, but they differ
     dramatically in most other ways.

     As with all solid tumors, the key to the control of gynecologic
     cancers lies in understanding their biology. If we can identify the
     genes, proteins, and environmental agents that drive their
     initiation and progression, we can make significant progress in
     improving outcomes for women at risk for these malignancies.

     We understand, and therefore control, cervical cancer best. Our
     recognition of precursor lesions in cervical cancer, and our use for
     nearly 50 years of the Pap test to detect them, has all but
     eradicated invasive cervical cancer in developed countries of the
     world. Our more recent discovery that infection by the human
     papillomavirus (HPV) is a necessary condition for the development of
     most if not all of cervical cancer provides an unprecedented
     opportunity. By developing vaccines against HPV infection and/or
     cervical cancer development among those exposed to HPV infection,
     there is the potential to control cervical cancer throughout the
     world. Although we do not understand endometrial cancer well, we do
     know the precursor lesion for the most common type of disease, and
     can usually detect and diagnose it early enough to treat it
     successfully. However, there is an aggressive form of endometrial
     cancer, Type II, that, like ovarian cancer, is very poorly
     understood. Ovarian cancer, by far the most lethal of the
     gynecologic cancers in developed countries, has presented a
     challenge to researchers because it is not symptomatic until late in
     the disease process. Tumors are not easily identified using current
     methods of early detection. Research on biomarkers for early
     detection of ovarian cancer has resulted in at least one marker
     (CA125) for ovarian cancer. CA125 is currently being tested in
     randomized controlled trials along with an imaging method,
     transvaginal sonography, for early detection. In addition, recent
     applications of proteomic techniques have shown promise in
     identifying unique markers of ovarian cancer. Nevertheless, much
     work remains to be done in both ovarian and Type II endometrial
     cancer if they are to be controlled within the next few decades.

PROCESS

     The Gynecologic Cancer Progress Review Group (GYN PRG) was charged
     with identifying and prioritizing areas of research to advance
     progress against these cancers. In this process, we attempted to
     maintain a global perspective, and our recommendations reflect
     priorities that will benefit women throughout the world.

     At a Planning Meeting held in February 2001, the GYN PRG organized a
     Roundtable to consider progress and identify needs across the
     continuum of gynecologic cancer research. Topics were selected for
     breakout sessions and experts were nominated to participate in the
     Roundtable. PRG members served as co-chairs for the breakout
     sessions.

     The GYN PRG Roundtable of approximately 120 participants met June
     18-20, 2001 in Herndon, Virginia. Participants were assigned to 1 of
     14 scientifically focused breakout groups and asked to identify top
     priorities for gynecologic cancer research in these areas over the
     next 5 years.


          Scientific Breakout Groups at the GYN PRG Roundtable Meeting
       * Angiogenesis, Metastasis, and Growth Signaling
       * Defining Signatures of Cancer Cells, Genomics, Proteomics &
         Informatics
       * Clinical and Molecular Genetics
       * Early Detection, Screening and Prevention
       * Genes and Environment
       * Health Disparities, Communication, Education & Quality of Care
       * Health Related Quality of life and Survivorship
       * Imaging
       * Immunology
       * Laboratory and Clinical Models
       * Radiobiology
       * Treatment, Clinical Trials, Gene Therapy, Staging & Surgery
       * Treatment and Drug Discovery
       * Tumor Biology, Hormone Receptors, Epithelial-Stromal Interactions &
         Early Activation

     In support of the priority-setting process, the Roundtable
     participants were provided with analysis of NCI's gynecologic cancer
     research portfolio and extensive information about ongoing NCI
     initiatives and activities that might address some of the needs of
     the field.

     Following the scientific breakout sessions, Roundtable members were
     convened in three groups to consider the specific gynecologic tumor
     types---cancer of the cervix, endometrium (uterine corpus), and
     ovary. These groups were asked to identify gaps in knowledge and
     barriers to progress, drawing on the reports of the scientific
     breakout groups. Groups were to recommend four to six priorities for
     research in each specific disease type, as well as any
     recommendations relevant to all three disease sites. Finally, the
     groups were asked to define an action plan to achieve the research
     goals. The full reports of the 14 scientific breakout groups and the
     3 groups addressing specific gynecologic tumor types are provided in
     the Appendix.

OVERVIEW OF PRIORITIES

     Following the Roundtable, the PRG leadership used the
     recommendations of the scientific breakout groups and tumor-specific
     groups to identify an Essential Priority, the Virtual Shared
     Specimen Resource (VSSR), an initiative considered absolutely
     necessary for advancing the detection, classification, and treatment
     of gynecologic cancer. Three High-Impact Priorities provide
     opportunities to expedite progress in our knowledge and
     understanding of gynecologic cancers and thus make significant
     impacts to reduce the burden of disease. Thematically, these
     priorities address either broad, cross-cutting research areas or
     focus on a specific gynecologic cancers. Finally, six Scientific
     Opportunities to expedite progress in translational research of
     gynecologic cancers were identified.


   ESSENTIAL RESEARCH PRIORITY HIGH-IMPACT PRIORITIES SCIENTIFIC
   OPPORTUNITIES

   Develop and make available to the cancer research community a Virtual
   Shared Specimen Resource (VSSR) to support gynecologic cancer research.

   There was consensus among members of the Roundtable that progress in
   gynecologic cancer research requires timely access to high quality
   samples of human tissue and body fluids.

   The VSSR will enable the research community to exploit emerging
   genomics, proteomics and informatics technologies to identify
   gynecologic cancers early in the disease process and to discover new
   targets for their prevention and treatment.

   (1) Identify precursor lesions, markers of risk and early detection,
   molecular disease classifications, prognostic indicators, and new
   targets for prevention and treatment.

   (2) Develop effective human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccines to prevent
   biotransmission and development of neoplasia.

   (3) Conduct research to (a) understand and improve the quality of life
   of gynecologic cancer patients; and to (b) reduce or eliminate
   disparities related to care among patients with gynecologic cancers.

   (1) Characterize the hormonal, immunologic, and epithelial/stromal
   interactions that result in the development of gynecologic cancers.

   (2) Develop imaging techniques to evaluate tumor biology, molecular
   signatures, and therapeutic response.

   (3) Develop preclinical models for gynecologic cancers.

   (4) Find ways to overcome resistance to chemotherapy and radiotherapy.

   (5) Develop individualized, optimized radiation therapy techniques in
   conjunction with other treatment modalities.

   (6) Encourage increased participation in clinical trials in gynecologic
   cancer.

     As in all types of cancer, the promise of exciting new technologies
     is that we may be able to classify gynecologic cancers at the
     molecular level so that we can detect them early and diagnose them
     in ways that guide treatment decisions. The establishment of a
     Virtual Shared Specimen Resource (VSSR) would enable the gynecologic
     cancers research community to realize the potential of the emerging
     technologies that require human tissue samples. A cooperative effort
     of this kind, facilitated by the NCI, will speed progress in the
     type of research needed to control ovarian and endometrial cancer.
     The time is right for such an initiative. The NCI has already begun
     an important effort to work with the research community to define
     the Common Data Elements (CDE's) that describe such specimens.
     Sharing of specimens will enable investigators to collaborate across
     disciplines and institutions to answer the most important research
     questions.

     The GYN PRG has formulated the priorities and opportunities
     described in this report to stimulate multi-disciplinary research
     that will significantly advance progress against these diseases.
     Implementation of these priorities can ultimately lead to
     discoveries that will ameliorate the significant impact of the
     gynecologic cancers on the health and lives of American women.

                                 PRIORITIES

     ESSENTIAL RESEARCH PRIORITY : THE VIRTUAL SHARED SPECIMEN RESOURCE

     Priority: Develop and make available to the cancer research
     community a Virtual Shared Specimen Resource (VSSR) to support
     gynecologic cancer research.

     To make significant progress, the gynecological cancer research
     community needs to exploit emerging genomics, proteomics and
     informatics technologies to identify precursor lesions, markers of
     risk and early detection, molecular disease classifications,
     prognostic indicators, and new targets for prevention and treatment.
     Despite a wealth of opportunities, progress is impeded by the dearth
     of high-quality, fresh-frozen, annotated specimens available to the
     gynecologic research community. In part because technologies are
     developing so rapidly, cutting-edge research requires specimens that
     are obtained at critical points in the disease process, processed
     and stored in evolving ways, and associated with high-quality
     clinical and follow-up data.

     The VSSR will allow us to perform molecular profiling to identify
     the molecular signatures of gynecologic cancers. It will facilitate
     the discovery of markers of gynecologic cancer risk, premalignant
     and malignant disease, and new approaches of preventing and treating
     progressive disease. Specifically, it will enable us to achieve
     answers to the following questions, which have been elusive in the
     past:
     * How can women at high risk for gynecologic cancers be identified?
     * How can ovarian and endometrial cancers be detected early?
     * What strategies can be developed to prevent gynecologic cancers?
     * What new approaches can be developed to better treat gynecologic
       cancers?

     Various tissue collection initiatives have been proposed and many
     exist, but they are limited in their usefulness for one or more of
     the following reasons:
     * Banked specimens were not processed or stored appropriately for
       current scientific needs.
     * Banked specimens were not obtained at the appropriate time in the
       course of disease, or do not represent the needed tissue types.
     * Informed consent obtained from tissue donors was not adequate for
       current scientific needs.
     * Specimens were not linked to adequate clinical data, including
       demographics, risk factors, therapy, and follow-up.
     * Lack of incentives to share specimens inhibits widespread use.

     As a result, specimens are not currently available in a timely
     fashion to a large group of researchers addressing the critical
     scientific questions in gynecologic cancer research.

     Nearly every GYN PRG breakout groups cited the critical need for
     quality samples of tissue and body fluids for research in
     gynecologic cancer. The groups also pointed out that these specimens
     must be collected in a manner to allow adequate preservation of DNA
     and RNA for research use. They further listed the need for these
     specimens to be linked to adequate patient data, including
     demographics, risk factors, therapy, and follow-up. Where possible,
     these specimens should be serially collected: before treatment,
     during treatment, and at any recurrence. Specimens from women
     without gynecologic cancer are needed as well, including women with
     benign gynecologic conditions and women with no evidence of
     gynecologic or malignant disease. Finally, these specimens and their
     associated clinical data must be collected with appropriate informed
     consent to allow for their use in all future research, including
     techniques yet to be developed and questions yet to be asked.

     The VSSR will enable the gynecologic cancer research community to
     realize the promise of exciting new technologies to identify
     gynecologic cancers early in the disease process and to discover new
     targets for their prevention and treatment. To make significant
     progress, a cooperative effort is needed to ensure that the best
     scientists have access to the right specimens. Although the
     scientific community has made efforts to this end, it is very
     difficult. NCI has an opportunity to facilitate the scientific
     community efforts and in fact, have already begun the process
     through the definition of common data elements to describe the
     specimens.

     Features of the VSSR would include specific scientific goals, a
     coordinating center, and an advisory committee to ensure efficiency,
     equity, quality, and inventory control in specimen collection,
     management, and distribution. The VSSR is "virtual" in the sense
     that although information describing the specimens is managed
     centrally, the specimens themselves reside in various institutions.

     The VSSR will surmount existing barriers to effective specimen
     banking and distribution in the following ways:
     * Its virtual design will overcome the reluctance of institutions
       that collect specimens to have their specimens stored centrally.
     * Its central coordination will provide equitable access to banked
       specimens as well as providing a means of prospective collection of
       specimens when banked specimens are inadequate.
     * Its scientific oversight will ensure that appropriate policies are
       developed regarding consortia members' rights and responsibilities,
       with attention to structuring incentives to promote collaboration.

     RECOMMENDED ACTIONS
    1. The National Cancer Institute (NCI) should provide the resources
       needed to facilitate development of a VSSR for gynecologic cancer
       research.
    2. An advisory committee composed of leaders in gynecologic cancer
       research, such as members of the GYN PRG, should monitor and
       oversee the progress of the resource and the research it supports.
    3. Multiple institutions should collaborate in the development and use
       of the VSSR, with a long-term goal of serving the specimen needs of
       the larger gynecologic cancer research community.

     RESOURCES

     The VSSR would probably involve multi-institutional consortia
     addressing one or more of the critical scientific questions
     identified by the GYN PRG, including identification of precursor
     lesions; biomarkers of risk, early-stage disease, and prognosis;
     molecular signatures of malignant and premalignant lesions; and
     targets for prevention and therapy. Each consortium would develop a
     specimen repository to support its own research needs as well as
     those of the larger gynecologic research community.

     Fresh tissue and fluids would be obtained at critical points in the
     disease process from large numbers of women (hundreds to thousands,
     depending on the research focus), including those with and without
     gynecologic cancer. Rates of specimen accrual for rare types of
     gynecologic cancer (such as Type II endometrial, Stage I serous
     ovarian, and invasive cervical cancers) and other conditions of
     interest (such as prophylactic oophorectomy and precursor lesions)
     would be important in selecting consortia.

     Also important would be quality control of collection, processing,
     storage, and characterization, as well as the ability to collect
     data on risk factors, clinical aspects, follow-up, and outcome by
     using common data elements (CDEs) agreed upon by the major NCI
     networks (Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program, Specialized Programs Of
     Research Excellence [SPOREs], Early Detection Research Network,
     etc.). Plans for specimen collection and processing would be based
     on the specific research questions to be addressed, as well as on
     the development of a more generally useful repository. Expertise in
     genomics, proteomics, and/or informatics would be needed within each
     consortium to support specific research goals. Consortia would
     provide access to banked specimens in the virtual repository and
     would initiate prospective specimen collection to meet the specific
     goals of new studies for which banked specimens were unavailable or
     inadequate.

     The VSSR coordinating center would:
     * facilitate specimen access by the greater research community;
     * manage specimen inventory and data;
     * develop policies and systems to provide equitable access to the
       resource, as well as a plan for managing specimen inventory,
       including rapid prospective collection of tissue to meet research
       needs for which banked specimens are inadequate;
     * coordinate the work of the collection sites across consortia so
       that the "spigot" can be turned on as needed to collect specimens
       of a particular type, to be appropriately processed and
       characterized to maintain inventory and/or to meet specific
       scientific objectives;
     * monitor and control the inventory of banked specimens to ensure the
       adequate availability of banked specimens to meet the needs of the
       research community;
     * oversee a Specimen Allocation Committee, composed of investigators
       at the collection sites, which would approve applications for
       prospective collection of unique specimens to meet particular
       scientific research objectives, as well as the use of stored
       specimens;
     * provide data collection forms and a specimen inventory control and
       tracking system (such as the Biological Specimen Inventory), to
       ensure the use of CDEs, facilitate specimen and data sharing, and
       avoid unnecessary investment in computer systems at each
       institution and consortium site;
     * provide a website (clearinghouse) to support communication with the
       greater research community regarding the ability of collection
       sites to accrue numbers of specimens of different types within a
       year, and availability of specimens banked already in the
       repository.

     While the GYN PRG hopes that all or many of the priorities in this
     report will be addressed, we also believe that there can be little
     progress in gynecologic cancer research unless this essential
     priority is implemented. The absence of a dedicated specimen
     resource will preclude timely scientific progress in gynecologic
     cancer research. Human specimen resources are required to meet the
     critical scientific needs identified in the 2002 NCI Plans and
     Priorities for Cancer Research (http://planning.cancer.gov), as well
     as those identified in this report. If successful, the VSSR could
     become a model for a resource that covers tumor types beyond
     gynecologic cancers.

HIGH-IMPACT RESEARCH PRIORITIES

     Drawing on the discussions of Roundtable participants, the PRG
     leadership identified three areas of research:
     * the identification of markers of risk, early detection and targets
       for treatment;
     * the development of human papillomavirus vaccines;
     * research to improve patients' quality of life; reduce disparities
       related to care.

     These areas were selected because of their importance to the science
     of gynecologic oncology in terms of both the state of the science
     today and the potential for benefit over the next 5 years. Two of
     these priorities are relevant to all three gynecologic tumor types
     and encompass areas of the science of oncology that also apply to
     other types of cancer. The other priority (HPV vaccines) is included
     as a high-impact priority because it has the potential to nearly or
     completely eliminate cervical cancer and thus would have a major
     effect on women's health throughout the world.

     Within each of the three areas, cross-cutting priorities for
     research were culled and consolidated from the lists of priorities
     developed by the breakout groups. This section presents background
     information, descriptions, and justifications for each of these
     areas.

MOLECULAR PROFILING FOR MARKERS OF RISK, EARLY DETECTION AND TREATMENT

     Priority: Identify precursor lesions, markers of risk and early
     detection, molecular disease classifications, prognostic indicators,
     and new targets for prevention and treatment.

     Cancer control strategies will be most effective and economically
     feasible if potentially lethal cancers can be identified and treated
     before they become invasive, and if treatment can be appropriately
     targeted. Emerging new technologies offer unprecedented
     opportunities. However, the use of these technologies to translate
     new discoveries for patients' benefits will require access to high
     quality annotated human specimens.

     Although early detection and prevention offer the best hope for
     reducing mortality from gynecologic cancers and improving the
     quality of life of cancer survivors, we do not have effective
     screening strategies for ovarian cancer or endometrial cancer.
     Identification of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia Type III (CIN
     III) as a precursor lesion for cervical cancer has allowed us to
     develop effective screening strategies for those cancers, but the
     precursor lesions for ovarian cancer and for Type II endometrial
     cancer are unknown.

     We also have only limited means of identifying women at high risk
     for these diseases. A model of cancer risk-such as the Gail model
     for breast cancer enhanced with the addition of biomarkers-is needed
     for the gynecologic cancers. To develop risk models and define risk
     groups for ovarian and endometrial cancer, we need epidemiologic
     studies conducted in large populations. Such models should
     incorporate markers and address long-term risk (i.e., over the
     lifetime) as well as short-term risk (i.e., within the next 1 to 5
     years). Proteomic approaches will make possible the development of
     new markers to identify individuals with early-stage cancer or at
     high risk of developing cancer.

     To identify in situ and precursor lesions, a two-pronged approach
     will be needed. In addition to research on basic tumor biology,
     including novel ways to understand benign but abnormal biology in
     the pelvis and its progression to malignancy, new technologies such
     as genomics and proteomics should be used to identify precursor
     lesions and provide their molecular signatures. Well-designed
     molecular profiling studies are needed to identify the precursor
     lesions and discover their markers.

     Once cancer has been diagnosed, treatment recommendations are made
     on the basis of histology and extent of disease, as they have been
     for the past 50 years, yet response to treatment varies widely among
     women with the same histologic and clinical features. Many women now
     run the risk of over-treatment with adjuvant therapy, which can
     potentially incur unnecessary expense and morbidity. The
     availability of new techniques to identify molecular and genetic
     characteristics of tumors should be combined with clinical follow-up
     data so that molecular markers of risk can be incorporated into the
     staging system for gynecologic cancers. Molecular and proteomic
     signatures are needed to supplement or replace the role of histology
     and extent of disease in treatment decisions, to provide accurate
     prognostic markers, and targets for new therapeutic and preventive
     agents. Partnerships with industry will facilitate the development
     of new chemical and biologic therapies directed toward the targets
     identified by molecular profiling investigations.

     To advance knowledge in all these areas-screening, risk, treatment,
     and prognosis-we must identify molecular markers associated with
     cervical, endometrial, and ovarian cancers. Markers for early
     detection and risk will help diagnose cancer in its earliest stages,
     increasing the chances for successful treatment with minimal effects
     on quality of life. Molecular targets for treatment can lead to more
     individualized and less toxic therapies. Markers for response to
     therapy and prognosis will also help tailor therapies according to
     the molecular profile of each woman's cancer.

     Achieving this priority would allow us to begin to answer the
     following questions:
     * What are the precursor lesions associated with epithelial ovarian
       cancer and high-risk endometrial cancer?
     * What biomarkers, measurable in easily accessible fluids, are
       associated with these precursor lesions?
     * What biomarkers, measurable in easily accessible fluids, are
       associated with invasive gynecologic cancers, especially ovarian
       and high-risk endometrial cancer?
     * What biomarkers, measurable in easily accessible fluids, are
       associated with response or non-response to therapy?
     * What models of risk, incorporating biomarkers as well as family
       history, environmental exposures, and reproductive history, can
       predict future development of epithelial ovarian cancer and
       endometrial cancer?
     * What new approaches can be identified for prevention of the
       gynecologic cancers?
     * What is a clinically relevant molecular classification and staging
       system for invasive gynecologic cancers?
     * What new targets can be identified for which directed therapies can
       be developed to improve survival from the gynecologic cancers?

RECOMMENDED ACTIONS

     The NCI is already sponsoring a variety of initiatives and projects
     relevant to the molecular profiling of cancers, including the
     Director's Challenge, the Cancer Genome Anatomy Project, and various
     investigator-initiated grants. The SPOREs now include ovarian cancer
     and will be expanded to include endometrial and cervical cancers.
     However, it will not be possible to make progress in comparative
     genomics and proteomics, or in molecular profiling of the
     gynecologic cancers, without an efficient and equitable means of
     ensuring the availability of appropriate human specimens. Specimens
     must be accompanied by associated clinical information, including
     medical and family history, risk factors, therapeutic interventions,
     response to intervention, and long-term follow-up.

RESOURCES

     The PRG recommends that NCI sponsor a mechanism to ensure the
     availability of three types of resources:
    1. Expansion of existing efforts in tumor banking is needed to ensure
       collection of a variety of specimens from primary surgery,
       including appropriately processed tissue from malignant and benign
       tumors; normal tissue; and urine, blood products, and other body
       fluids obtained at the time of diagnosis and serially throughout
       the disease process. Of particular importance is the collection of
       samples from patients with potential precursor lesions, early-stage
       cancers, and no gynecologic cancer. Samples of tissue and body
       fluids must be accompanied by associated clinical information,
       including medical and family history, epidemiological risk factors,
       therapeutic interventions, and long-term follow-up. This resource
       -which we have referred to as the VSSR-is an essential research
       priority.
    2. Large, well-documented specimen repositories are needed to allow
       for the development and validation of early detection and risk
       models that incorporate markers measured in fluids. Of particular
       interest are repositories that include serial specimens from women
       without cancer at entry and with good follow-up data for cancer
       endpoints, such as the Prostate, Lung, Colorectal, and Ovarian
       Cancer Screening (PLCO) Trial resource. Criteria for access to very
       valuable specimens, such as these, need to be developed.
    3. The large randomized controlled trials that will eventually be
       needed to test the efficacy of new strategies for gynecologic
       cancer detection and prevention are so expensive that we can afford
       to perform a limited number. A statistical and bioinformatics
       infrastructure must be developed to allow for adequate analysis and
       interpretation of the findings from molecular and validation
       studies to ensure that the best strategies are selected for testing
       in trials.

HUMAN PAPILLOMAVIRUS VACCINES

     Priority: Develop effective human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccines to
     prevent biotransmission and development of neoplasia.

     Cervical cancer remains one of the leading causes of cancer deaths
     among women throughout the world; according to the World Health
     Organization, more than 230,000 women around the world die each year
     from the disease. Research has made clear the primary role of HPV in
     the development of cervical neoplasia; the development and
     implementation of effective HPV prophylactic and therapeutic
     vaccines has the potential to nearly eradicate cervical cancer. In
     addition, each year in the United States, more than 1,250,000 women
     are diagnosed with potentially precancerous changes on Pap smear.
     The cost to evaluate and treat women with abnormal Pap smears has
     been estimated at $6 billion annually. Development of effective
     prophylactic and therapeutic vaccines could dramatically reduce the
     cost of screening for cervical cancer.

     Although HPV vaccine research has been under way for some time, no
     effective prophylactic or therapeutic HPV vaccine has been
     identified. Key issues to be addressed include:
     * the role of mucosal and humoral immunity in HPV infection;
     * the impact of endogenous and exogenous factors on the risk of
       developing cervical neoplasia;
     * the most efficacious vaccine strategies; and
     * the immunologic biomarkers that might be used to clinically
       evaluate resulting vaccines.

     Investigators at the NCI, universities, and industry have begun work
     to develop both prophylactic and therapeutic HPV vaccines. To date,
     however, progress has been limited. A variety of vaccine strategies
     have been proposed, targeting virus-like particles, protein, naked
     DNA, and bacteria. We lack a framework, however, for comprehensive
     clinical evaluation of vaccine combinations, adjuvants, and
     cytokines. Many vaccine products are still in preclinical
     development and only a handful has reached clinical evaluation.
     Clinical trials have also been hampered by fragmentation of efforts,
     and few partnerships exist between industry and government. At
     present, no effective HPV vaccine has been identified for any
     clinical setting, and none has been approved for use anywhere in the
     world.

     Achieving this priority would allow us to begin to answer the
     following questions, among others:
     * What are the roles of endogenous (e.g., hormones) and exogenous
       (e.g., other pathogens and smoking) factors in immunity?
     * What are the differences between immune responses at the systemic
       level and at the mucosal surface or the site of neoplasia?
     * How does immune response differ between a virus-infected cell and a
       cancer cell?
     * What are the differences between HPV-specific immunity and cervical
       cancer-specific immunity?
     * What are the immunologic profiles at the cellular and molecular
       levels in women who develop chronic HPV infection and those in whom
       it is eradicated?
     * Is HPV a sufficient target or are other tumor antigens involved in
       malignant transformation?
     * What are the laboratory and biologic correlates for vaccine
       response?

     RECOMMENDED ACTIONS

     Although activity has begun for the development of vaccines both for
     prevention and for therapy, gaps in knowledge remain. A broad-based
     effort should be undertaken to create a network of scientists from
     NCI, industry, the Clinical Trials Cooperative Groups,
     NCI-designated Cancer Centers, and individual institutions to
     address existing gaps. Research toward an HPV vaccine would be
     enhanced by:
    1. Encouraging studies to improve our basic understanding of mucosal
       immunity in the cervix.
          + Prioritize the understanding of both endogenous factors (e.g.,
            influences of hormones) and exogenous factors (e.g., smoking
            and other pathogens) and their role in influencing mucosal
            immune responses
          + Define the differences between systemic immunity and the
            immune responses at the mucosal surface or site of neoplasia
    2. Understanding the initiation of effective mucosal immunity:
          + Define effective anti-viral (HPV) and anti-tumor immune
            responses
          + Validate laboratory and biologic correlates for clinical
            response
          + Determine a vaccine strategy that will differentiate between
            the immune response to a virally infected cell and to a cancer
            cell
          + Understand the differences between HPV-specific immunity and
            cervical cancer-specific immunity including the antigenic
            repertoire as well as the phenotype of both T cell and humoral
            immunity generated at the site of disease
    3. Researching who develops chronic HPV infection and in whom it can
       be eradicated.
          + Obtain immunologic profiles of women with cervical cancer
          + Evaluate profiles at both the cellular and molecular levels
          + Include population and epidemiologic evaluation in studies to
            link immune defects with other potential environmental
            concerns
          + Stimulate biologically relevant anti-viral and/or anti-tumor
            immunity, including whether HPV is a sufficient target or
            whether other tumor antigens involved in malignant
            transformation are needed for tumor eradication
          + Define the immunologic problems in the development of
            prophylactic versus therapeutic vaccines

     RESOURCES

     To facilitate the research efforts needed to develop effective
     prophylactic and therapeutic vaccines, enhancement of existing
     resources and development of new ones in the following areas are
     critical:
     * core laboratories for viral and immunologic evaluation of specimens
       from clinical trials
     * a network of clinical centers to conduct HPV vaccine studies in
       individuals at risk for HPV infection, those infected with HPV, and
       those with cervical neoplasia.
     * an expanded cadre of individuals with expertise in clinical trials
       and HPV immunology to conduct future studies.
     * effective partnerships between industry and government to
       facilitate rapid evaluation of new vaccines and vaccine
       combinations and strategies, including cytokines and adjuvants

QUALITY OF LIFE; DISPARITIES RELATED TO CARE

     Priority: Conduct research to (1) understand and improve quality of
     life; (2) reduce or eliminate disparities related to care among
     patients with gynecologic cancers.

     Much is unknown about how to ensure that all women with gynecologic
     cancers experience optimal health-related quality of life.
     Disparities in the care of some patients may lead to vastly
     different outcomes. Significant research support is needed to
     understand and to develop interventions that will improve quality of
     life for all women; and to understand and overcome the underlying
     factors that result in disparities in care.

     Understand and improve quality of life. Little is known about how to
     ensure high quality of life of gynecologic cancer patients before,
     during and after treatment. Women diagnosed with gynecologic cancers
     often experience fatigue, decreased cognitive function, skin and
     hair changes, sexual dysfunction, psychosocial problems, and other
     problems that can persist for months to years after primary
     treatment.

     Women in the United States are not routinely screened for these
     symptoms at diagnosis or follow-up. There are no effective
     interventions for many of these symptoms, and other aspects of these
     women's lives have not been well studied: for example, we do not
     know the effect of chemotherapy on fertility or the risks of hormone
     replacement therapy after treatment for a gynecologic cancer.

     With nearly 20 percent of cancer survivors comprised of women who
     have had cervical, endometrial or ovarian cancer, our understanding
     of their short- and long-term quality-of-life issues-and discovering
     ways to address them-is crucial to providing the complete scope of
     cancer care. Despite the scope of the problem, this area remains
     under-studied and under-supported. Additional research is badly
     needed to address questions of quality of life and to devise
     interventions for cancer-related and treatment-related symptoms.

     Reduce or eliminate disparities in care. Medical science has given
     us the means to effectively treat the majority of gynecologic
     cancers; currently, we cure approximately 72 percent of cervical
     cancers, 50 percent of ovarian cancers, and 86 percent of cancers of
     the uterine corpus. Nevertheless, studies suggest that many U.S.
     women with gynecologic cancer-particularly those with ovarian or
     cervical cancer-do not receive optimal care, and that outcomes of
     care may vary widely across populations.

     For example, there are striking disparities in stage at diagnosis
     and in mortality by race and socioeconomic status. Black, Asian,
     American Indian and Hispanic women have higher mortality rates from
     cervical cancer than do white women (black women's rates are the
     highest by far-more than double those of white women). Black women
     also have much higher mortality rates from endometrial cancer than
     do whites. In ovarian cancer, white women have the highest mortality
     rates, followed by blacks and then Hispanics.

     Barriers to receiving optimal screening and treatment-whether
     age-related, educational, cultural, geographic, social, or some
     other type-may explain some of the disparities, but research has not
     elucidated which barriers are most important or how to overcome
     them. Many women diagnosed with gynecologic cancer are not referred
     to doctors with expertise in the management of gynecologic cancer.
     Specialists who treat gynecologic cancers may make assumptions based
     on race, education, or socioeconomic status about a woman's ability
     to tolerate or comply with more aggressive treatment, and these
     assumptions may lead to differences in type of treatment offered
     and, ultimately, differences in outcome.

     Screening disparities also exist; older women and women in certain
     areas of the United States are less likely to be screened, or
     screened regularly, for cervical cancer. This frequently translates
     into later disease stage at diagnosis and worse outcome, even if the
     best care is provided. We need focused research to determine how to
     ensure that all women diagnosed with gynecologic cancer in the
     United States receive optimal care. Such research must include
     collaborations among investigators with expertise in gynecologic
     oncology, epidemiology, health services research, health
     communication, and health psychology.

     Achieving this priority will help answer the following questions,
     among others:
     * What are the short- and long-term outcomes among women with
       gynecologic cancers?
     * Are there differences in population outcomes related to disparities
       in detection and diagnosis? If so, what can be done to eliminate
       the disparities?
     * What interventions can maintain and enhance health-related quality
       of life among women with gynecologic cancers?

     RECOMMENDED ACTIONS
    1. We propose large observational cohort studies of patients with
       newly and previously diagnosed gynecologic cancer. These studies
       should:
          + investigate the impact of targeted interventions on
            patient-centered outcomes
          + identify the influence of modifiable risk factors on
            gynecologic cancers
          + discover options to eliminate disparities in the delivery of
            high-quality cancer care.

     We recommend that these studies be conducted through the newly
     created, NCI-sponsored Cancer Care Outcomes Research and
     Surveillance Consortium (CanCORS) initiative. However, it is
     essential that the studies look across the disease continuum, from
     diagnosis through treatment to survivorship and end-of-life care,
     and include sites with sufficient representation of disadvantaged
     populations to enable examination of health disparities in treatment
     and outcomes.
    2. We propose intensive research to develop and evaluate interventions
       to maintain and enhance health-related quality of life in women
       with gynecologic cancers. These efforts would build on the ongoing
       health-related quality of life observational research currently
       conducted by the Clinical Trials Cooperative Groups, Cancer
       Centers, and individual investigators. It is critical that
       state-of-the-science therapies are translated into practice.

     RESOURCES

     To conduct the large observational studies required to evaluate
     quality of care and survivorship issues in gynecologic cancers, new
     research mechanisms will be needed. These mechanisms should include
     the following:
     * Development of collaborative projects and consortia to conduct
       large cohort studies in patients with gynecologic cancer
     * Collaboration among investigators with expertise in gynecologic
       oncology, epidemiology, health services research, heath
       communication, and health psychology
     * Development of a cadre of new and existing investigators in the
       fields of communication, health psychology, health-related quality
       of life, and health services research related to gynecologic
       cancers

SCIENTIFIC OPPORTUNITIES

     In addition to identifying high-impact priorities, we have
     identified six Scientific Opportunities that should also be an
     important part of the National Cancer Institute's research plan for
     gynecologic cancer. The individual breakout reports (see Appendix)
     that cited the need for each priority are given in parentheses.
    1. Characterize the hormonal, immunologic, and epithelial/stromal
       interactions that result in the development of gynecologic cancers.
       (Breakouts: Tumor Biology, Ovarian Cancer)

     The endometrium, ovary, and cervix are all hormone-responsive sites.
     We do not fully understand the etiologic events that transform
     normal epithelial cells into hormone-dependent tumors, nor can we
     identify the molecular events in hormone-independent tumors arising
     in the reproductive tract. We do not understand the molecular
     mechanisms that facilitate the interactions and synergy between
     hormones and growth factors and their corresponding receptors in
     both the epithelium and the stroma. We do not know how aging,
     race/ethnicity, body mass index, puberty, pregnancy, menopause, oral
     contraceptives, hormone replacement therapy, or selective estrogen
     receptor modulators influence these interactions.
    2. Develop imaging techniques to evaluate tumor biology, molecular
       signatures, and therapeutic response. (Breakouts: Imaging,
       Endometrial Cancer, Cervical Cancer)

     Because we can directly visualize the transformation zone of the
     cervix, where most neoplasia begins, we have made major strides in
     screening for cervical cancer and in deepening our understanding of
     the biology of preinvasive cervical lesions. At present, however, we
     are not able to obtain reliable images of precancerous lesions in
     the endometrium or ovary. Although ultrasound and magnetic resonance
     imaging can provide information on abnormal structures in the adnexa
     and uterus, no currently available imaging modality provides
     effective screening for ovarian or endometrial cancer or effective
     biologic characterization of cervical, ovarian, or endometrial
     cancer.
    3. Develop relevant preclinical models for gynecologic cancers.
       (Breakouts: Genes and Environment, Models, Treatment, Endometrial
       Cancer)

     Gynecologic cancers are characterized by unique genetic,
     physiologic, and environmental processes that lead to
     carcinogenesis. Within each gynecologic cancer are multiple,
     heterogeneous histologic subtypes. Each gynecologic cancer also has
     a range of biologic behaviors, including different patterns of
     growth and metastasis and different responses to therapy. Although a
     variety of gynecologic cancer models are in development, no models
     as yet recapitulate the human cancer for which they were designed.
    4. Find ways to overcome resistance to chemotherapy and radiotherapy.
       (Breakouts: Radiobiology, Treatment, Cervical Cancer)

     In general, gynecologic cancers are initially sensitive to
     chemotherapy and radiation therapy. Nonetheless, in most cases,
     resistant clones develop, resulting in death. For example, more than
     80 percent of women with advanced ovarian cancer experience a
     complete clinical response to platinum-taxane-based chemotherapy
     after initial surgery, but only 25 percent of women with stage
     III/IV ovarian cancer are alive at 5 years. More than 80 percent of
     women with locally advanced cervical cancer experience a complete
     clinical response to platinum-based chemoradiation, but only 30
     percent of women with stage III/IV cervical cancer are alive at 5
     years. Identification of the mechanisms by which gynecologic cancers
     develop resistance would help us improve current treatment and cure
     more women with gynecologic cancer.
    5. Develop individualized and optimized radiation therapy techniques
       in conjunction with other treatment modalities. (Breakouts:
       Radiobiology, Endometrial Cancer, Ovarian Cancer)

     Radiation therapy remains a mainstay of treatment for cervical and
     endometrial cancers. Several studies suggest that radiation therapy
     also has great potential in the treatment of ovarian cancer. Much of
     the progress to date has been empirical, based on patterns of
     recurrence and toxicity. To make further progress, we must gain a
     better understanding of the interaction between therapeutic
     radiation and gynecologic cancer, and how radiation therapy can be
     optimized in its combination with other treatment modalities, such
     as chemotherapy.
    6. Encourage increased participation in clinical trials in gynecologic
       cancer. (Breakouts: Treatment and Drug Discovery, Ovarian Cancer)

     Despite the establishment of a subspecialty devoted to gynecologic
     cancer, as well as effective multidisciplinary collaboration in
     clinical cancer research, less than 2.5 percent of women with
     gynecologic cancers are enrolled in prospective treatment trials.
     This figure is in marked contrast to the 50 percent of children with
     cancer who are entered in clinical trials. A variety of new
     approaches, including chemotherapy, biologic therapy, immunologic
     therapy, radiation therapy, and hormonal therapy, need evaluation in
     women with gynecologic cancer. Progress depends on effective
     communication to women and health care providers about the
     importance of clinical trials, and an effective clinical trials
     network with adequate funding for translational research.

                                 CONCLUSION

     The report of the GYN PRG identifies one Essential Priority, three
     High-impact Priorities, and six Scientific Opportunities. We
     consider the implementation of these 10 priorities to be essential
     if in the next 5 years we are to show significant progress toward
     the cure of gynecologic cancer. We encourage the reader to study in
     detail the individual reports of the 14 breakout groups and the 3
     tumor-type groups, which are provided in the Appendix. These
     individual reports expand further on the 10 priorities and offer
     additional direction for the research community. The material in
     these reports represents the careful considerations of all
     participants at the Roundtable.

APPENDIX
Full Reports of the GYN PRG Breakout Groups

HEALTH-RELATED QUALITY OF LIFE AND SURVIVORSHIP

     Co-Chairs: Stacey Young-McCaughan, David Cella and Barbara Andersen

                   Participants:
                   Deborah Bell
                    Robin Chin
                    Mona Fouad
               Diana Patricia Garcia

                                      Diana Jeffery
                                    Edward Partridge
                                     Susan L. Scherr
                                     Mary Scroggins

                                                    Joan Walker
                                                    Jane Weeks
                                                    Lari Wenzel

BACKGROUND: STATE OF THE SCIENCE

     Improved therapies and supportive care measures are improving
     survival rates and durations for women with both primary and
     recurrent gynecologic cancers. Accordingly, issues concerning
     health-related quality of life and survivorship are becoming a more
     urgent concern. Of the approximately 3.9 million women alive today
     with a history of any type of cancer, nearly 20 percent (656,108)
     have been diagnosed with a gynecologic cancer. Yet only 3 percent of
     the survivorship research funded by the National Institutes of
     Health and the Department of Defense (DoD) addresses the concerns of
     women with gynecologic cancers.

     The collective research portfolio of the National Cancer Institute
     (NCI), the Gynecologic Oncology Group (GOG), the DoD, and the
     American Cancer Society contains fewer than 25 studies on
     health-related quality of life and survivorship among patients with
     gynecologic cancer. These studies are primarily
     investigator-initiated, descriptive studies of women with ovarian or
     cervical cancer or are drug intervention studies funded by the GOG
     in which quality of life is added as an outcome measure. Four
     intervention studies examined psychologic interventions,
     interventions for sexual dysfunction, and an exercise intervention.
     Several of the studies dealt with a relatively small proportion of
     the population of women with gynecologic cancers, such as those with
     germ cell tumors or BRCA1 mutations.

     Health-related quality of life and survivorship studies can be
     reviewed by at least five NCI study sections (Social Sciences,
     Nursing, Epidemiology, and Methods; Nursing Research; Biobehavioral
     and Behavioral Processes; Prevention and Health Behavior; or a
     special study section) and can be funded by at least three NCI
     divisions (Cancer Treatment and Diagnosis, Cancer Prevention, and
     Cancer Control and Population Sciences). Thus, investigators are
     often confused as to potential NCI program officers or where to send
     their proposals for review and funding. The DoD does not have any
     special funding mechanisms for health-related quality of life or
     survivorship proposals, instead requiring investigators to submit
     their best ideas under more generic award mechanisms. Very few
     proposals having to do with health-related quality of life have been
     submitted or funded by the DoD.

     Issues related to health-related quality of life and survivorship
     for the gynecologic cancers include the following:

     All gynecologic cancers (cervical, endometrial, ovarian):
     * Study is needed to ascertain the role and optimal administration of
       hormone replacement therapy in the care of women who are at risk
       for, as well as those diagnosed with, gynecologic cancers.
     * There is a need for longitudinal, descriptive studies in most areas
       of research on health-related quality of life and survivorship as a
       basis for thoughtfully designed intervention studies. In
       particular, virtually nothing is known of the quality of life of
       women who have survived endometrial cancer, although it has the
       highest overall survival rate of the gynecologic cancers.
     * Areas needing assessment include symptom experience and intensity,
       skin and hair changes, memory loss, and aging. No additional
       descriptive studies of sexual dysfunction are needed, as the sexual
       sequelae to the diagnosis and treatment of gynecologic cancers have
       been carefully documented and validated.
     * There is a need for a description of the effects of secondary and
       tertiary treatments, as well as those of chronic treatment for
       recurrent cancer.
     * There is a need for a description of the long-term effects of
       chemotherapy and radiation therapy.
     * Population-based documentation of patterns of care is also needed.

     Cervical cancer:
     * Sexuality and reproductive concerns
     * Quality of life, especially as it relates to the social stigma and
       socioeconomic status associated with the disease
     * Communication with health professionals
     * Cultural sensitivity to age, race, ethnicity, and environment
     * Access to care

     Endometrial cancer:
     * Care of women with comorbid conditions, such as obesity and
       diabetes
     * Sense of well-being and body image
     * Physical functioning
     * Dietary and exercise interventions
     * Connections with other cancers, such as colon cancer
     * Well-woman care and health-seeking behavior

     Ovarian cancer:
     * Fear of recurrence
     * Treatment decision-making
     * Social support interventions
     * Supportive and palliative care
     * End-of-life care
     * Education and communication
     * Insurance issues

RESEARCH PRIORITIES

     Priority 1: Intervention research addressing sexuality and fertility
     outcomes in women with gynecologic cancers

     Rationale

     Longitudinal research has documented that as many as 50 percent of
     patients with gynecologic cancer experience significant sexual
     difficulties after diagnosis and treatment. Difficulties arise
     during the immediate post-treatment period; if left untreated, they
     do not resolve and may worsen with time. When sexual difficulties
     are studied in the context of other major life areas (e.g., mood,
     social adjustment, employment), they remain an island of disruption
     in an otherwise generally positive survivorship scenario. Thus, with
     a substantial research basis of descriptive efforts, it is now
     appropriate to begin intervention research to prevent or remediate
     these difficulties. This effort will be facilitated by the
     availability of efficacious treatments for the treatment of female
     sexual dysfunctions.

     Complementary concerns for many young cancer patients are the
     effects of cancer therapy on fertility, as well as the availability
     of therapies to treat symptoms of menopause. The risk/benefit study
     of hormone replacement therapy in women with gynecologic cancers is
     of particular interest.

     Barriers

     Sexuality and fertility issues often are not easily discussed,
     either between partners or with health care professionals. This
     reticence makes it difficult to study interventions that address
     sexuality and fertility outcomes.

     Resources Needed

     Trained professionals are needed to broach sexuality and fertility
     issues and to design appropriate intervention studies. With
     professional encouragement and adequate funding for research,
     investigators will be more likely to devote their careers to the
     study of gynecologic cancers.

     Priority 2: Research on quality-of-life issues surrounding the late
     effects of treatment and long-term survival

     Rationale

     Advances in gynecologic care and treatment have lengthened
     disease-free intervals and have improved survival rates. Survival
     advances have been achieved through the effective use of combination
     therapies (e.g., chemoradiation for cervical cancer), lengthy
     treatment regimens, and the use of multi-agent chemotherapy
     regimens. Thus, most gynecologic cancer patients reach 5-year
     survival periods (and longer) and cope with the accompanying changes
     that may have occurred in their quality of life. Knowledge is needed
     regarding the scope and magnitude of psychosocial difficulties
     confronting these long-term survivors, including predictors,
     magnitude, and course of psychosocial responses and outcomes. These
     issues are particularly important for patients receiving multiple
     therapies or therapies with late effects, as well as for those who
     have medical comorbidities or limited socioeconomic resources at the
     time of their diagnoses.

     Barriers

     Although gynecologic tumors account for 14 percent of annual cancer
     cases in women and nearly 20 percent of female cancer survivors,
     minimal attention and study have focused on the quality-of-life and
     survivor concerns of these women. This absence of research, though
     driven in part by lack of funding, is also due to the absence of a
     cadre of trained investigators devoting their careers to the study
     of health-related quality-of-life issues among patients with and
     survivors of gynecologic cancers.

     Resources Needed

     To better describe quality-of-life issues surrounding the late
     effects of treatment and long-term survival, a Cancer Care Outcomes
     Research and Surveillance Consortium (CanCORS) award or similar
     mechanism for the gynecologic cancers is needed. This mechanism
     should focus on patient-centered outcomes, investigating the
     dissemination of state-of-the-science therapies into community
     practice, examining the influence of modifiable risk factors, and
     analyzing disparities in the delivery of quality cancer care.

     Furthermore, funding mechanisms are needed to bring new
     investigators into the field, provide training resources to senior
     investigators for mentorship, and induce psychosocial investigators
     to focus research programs on gynecologic tumors. In turn, these new
     investigators and more senior investigators can serve as mentors for
     future researchers.

                       CLINICAL AND MOLECULAR GENETICS

                     Co-Chairs: Mary Daly and Judy Garber

                       Participants:
                      Richard Barakat
                      Andrew Berchuck
                         Jeff Boyd
                      Richard Buller

                       Holly Gallion
                        Beth Karlan
                       Robyn Kravit
                        Samuel Mok

                                       Carolyn Muller
                                       Susan Nayfield
                                       Timothy Rebbeck
                                     Joellen Schildkraut

BACKGROUND: STATE OF THE SCIENCE

     Emerging technologies in molecular biology and genetics are
     providing new and powerful tools with which to explore gynecologic
     malignancies and describe tumor heterogeneity. Despite the
     sophistication of these new technologies, their clinical application
     to the prevention, early detection, and treatment of ovarian,
     endometrial, and cervical cancers is lagging. Progress in molecular
     genetics has the potential to elucidate the basic mechanisms of
     tumor initiation, growth, and invasion; identify molecular targets
     for prevention, screening, and treatment; and explore gene-gene and
     gene-environment interactions. A systematic approach to exploit this
     potential has not been initiated, however. Clinical assays can now
     identify individuals with germline mutations who face a
     significantly increased risk for ovarian or endometrial cancer, yet
     clinicians caring for these individuals have very little to offer
     beyond surgical preventive strategies. Furthermore, the clinical
     phenotypes of hereditary cancers are not well defined and optimal
     treatment strategies are lacking. Larger societal issues of public
     and professional education and ethical concerns in the protection of
     privacy and confidentiality must also be addressed.
     In this area, attention must be paid to the following:
     * Novel and powerful technologies that can potentially characterize
       the molecular evolution of gynecologic malignancies have recently
       become widely available. These tools permit the identification of
       points of molecular commonality across cancers and have tremendous
       potential for translational research.
     * The molecular heterogeneity observed in gynecologic tumors may
       provide important clues to the role of genetic and environmental
       exposures and may help define gene-gene and gene-environment
       interactions.
     * A concerted effort is needed to translate important molecular
       discoveries into clinical applications. However, a significant gap
       in the knowledge and appreciation of the promise of genetics within
       the medical community hinders the incorporation of these findings
       into clinical care.
     * Complex ethical, cultural, and societal barriers to the conduct of
       genetic research must be addressed. These barriers include fear of
       genetic discrimination, concerns about privacy and confidentiality,
       and fragmentation of the regulatory bodies that oversee research.
     * Markers of inherited risk for ovarian and endometrial cancers are
       now available in the clinical setting and are being utilized by
       clinicians. A better understanding of these inherited cancers will
       provide insights into the carcinogenic pathways in sporadic as well
       as inherited cancers. There is, however, a profound lack of
       information about strategies for early detection, the role of
       chemoprevention, the risks and benefits of prophylactic surgeries,
       and the importance of the traditional risk factors in these
       individuals.
     * There is some evidence that inherited cancers are different from
       their sporadic counterparts. For example, BRCA1/2-associated
       ovarian cancers appear to have a better prognosis than do sporadic
       ovarian cancers. The details of any biologic differences between
       hereditary and sporadic gynecologic cancers must be defined to
       permit assessment of the extent to which hereditary cancers can
       serve as models for early detection, prevention, and treatment
       interventions that can be generalized to the larger population, as
       well as to individualize treatment options to match the biologic
       characteristics of the tumors.

RESEARCH PRIORITIES

     Priority 1: New and emerging molecular technologies must be applied
     to gynecologic cancers, where the need for effective therapies is
     critical. We must characterize the molecular features of gynecologic
     cancers for the identification of intermediate biomarkers for
     prevention, molecular targets for early detection and treatment, and
     factors with prognostic and predictive significance.

     Priority 2: Populations at risk for inherited cancers are an ideal
     group for pilot studies of etiology and prevention. It is critical
     to study genetically high-risk individuals and their cancers to
     identify genetic and environmental determinants of penetrance, to
     compare and contrast hereditary and sporadic cancers, to address
     issues of clinical management, and to extend this knowledge to the
     field of pharmacogenetics.

     Priority 3: Genetic identification of individuals at high risk is
     possible for all three common gynecologic cancers. Modifier genes
     and genetic polymorphisms are also being identified that increase
     susceptibility. In other malignancies, there exist effective
     therapeutic interventions directed against molecular targets.
     Research must emphasize the translation of genetic and molecular
     paradigms into clinical applications and define effective strategies
     to prepare the public and medical communities to embrace these
     revolutionary approaches. New models will affect risk assessment,
     targeted surveillance, prevention, and treatment.

     Barriers

     Despite progress in federal and state privacy legislation, concerns
     about genetic discrimination remain significant for many individuals
     who would otherwise participate in informative research. Additional
     efforts to ensure protection from discrimination in health
     insurance, employment, and other opportunities on the basis of
     genetic information remain critically important to permit ongoing
     research in the genetics of gynecologic malignancies.

     Protection of the rights of research participants and their family
     members to privacy and confidentiality is the charge of
     Institutional Review Boards and the Office of Human Research
     Protection. These bodies must be educated and supported as they
     devise systems to protect participants without hindering research
     that depends on access to critical human blood and tissue specimens
     and, sometimes, on ongoing contact with participants. These systems
     must balance the rights to individual privacy against the burden of
     "overconsenting" and must consider the special issues raised by
     genetic studies, which may have implications for family members.

     Genetic testing for hereditary susceptibility to cancer is limited
     by financial and sociocultural factors. Despite increasing coverage
     of genetic testing by health insurance companies, access to genetic
     tests for individuals without health insurance or with less
     comprehensive policies-more than 12 million Americans annually-is
     not available. Sociocultural barriers to genetic testing are also
     important to issues of access and utilization. These must be
     addressed both practically and as appropriate topics for research.

     Resources
     * For the goals described herein, meticulously collected and verified
       clinical treatment and outcome data are critical. Coordinated
       access to existing resources must also be addressed.
     * A resource of germline and malignant tumor material with associated
       clinical data from individuals with hereditary predisposition to
       cancer would greatly facilitate the elucidation of the proposed
       research goals. Such collection might be facilitated through the
       Cancer Family Registries, the Cancer Genetics Network, or other
       programs.
     * Mechanisms must be developed to facilitate funding for and conduct
       of correlative science investigations in gynecologic malignancies
       within the cooperative treatment groups from their existing and
       developing characterized tissue repositories.
     * Special mechanisms must be developed with which to attract young
       investigators to molecular biologic and translational research in
       gynecologic malignancies.
     * Mechanisms to foster collaborative research and encourage
       interaction across disciplines must be emphasized.

 DEFINING SIGNATURES OF CANCER CELLS, GENOMICS, PROTEOMICS, AND INFORMATICS

       Co-Chairs: Ruedi H. Aebersold, Garnet Anderson and Mark Boguski

            Participants:
             Robert Bast
          Michael J. Birrer
            Kathleen Cho
             Nita Maihle

                                 Patricia May
                             Neeraja Sathyamoorthy
                                Mark Schiffman
                           Steven Skates Jeff Trent

                                                     Michael Welch
                                                   John Wiktorowicz

BACKGROUND: STATE OF THE SCIENCE

     The availability of the complete human genomic sequence and emerging
     technologies for the systematic and quantitative measurement of the
     genes (genomics) and proteins (proteomics) expressed by a cell or
     tissue provide new opportunities to define molecular signatures of
     cancer. Such signatures are expected to have an impact on
     essentially any type of cancer and on topics of cancer research,
     such as the study of the molecular mechanisms of cancer, early
     detection, diagnosis, discovery of new treatment targets, and
     assessment of treatment outcome.

     The generation of biologically and clinically relevant signatures in
     gynecologic cancers via genomic and proteomic tools critically
     depends on the availability of high-quality, well-annotated samples.
     Furthermore, the detection of signatures consisting of multiple
     elements requires the analysis of relatively large numbers of
     samples to make the signatures statistically significant.

     Although genomic and proteomic technologies are still rapidly
     evolving, their initial application has indicated that the
     development of meaningful molecular signatures requires the
     development of new study designs, integrated databases, advanced
     computational tools, and centers for high-throughput data
     generation. Technology centers subject to these recommendations are
     expected to significantly accelerate the access of cancer biologists
     to state-of-the-art analytical facilities and to provide an urgently
     needed pool of researchers trained in emerging technologies.

RESEARCH PRIORITIES

     Priority 1: Develop a national resource for the collection and
     distribution of clinical samples.
     * The resource will contain high-quality, well-annotated specimens
       including normal, benign, and pre-malignant lesions; all
       histologies and stages; and specimens from various risk groups. The
       number of specimens will be sufficiently high to support studies
       leading to statistically significant conclusions.
     * The specimen resource will ideally include matched (tissue and
       blood) and serial samples from the same patient.
     * Specimens will be annotated with clinical, pathologic,
       epidemiologic, and molecular signatures specific for each tumor
       type.

     Barriers

     Although a number of tissue collection initiatives exist, the
     following factors have limited usefulness for defining signatures of
     cancer:
     * Lack of standardized protocols for the collection and annotation of
       high-quality specimens
     * Lack of sufficiently large matched sample sets to support studies
       yielding statistically significant conclusions
     * Lack of appropriately trained personnel
     * Lack of infrastructure for the decentralized collection of
       specimens representing the whole population
     * Lack of standardized criteria to provide access to rare specimens
     * Privacy and informed consent policies that constrain the use of
       specimens for unanticipated studies

     Resources
     * Existing specimen banks such as the Gynecologic Oncology Group, the
       Early Detection Research Network, the Cancer Genetics Network,
       Ovarian Specialized Program of Research Excellence, and
       private-sector programs
     * Patient advocate groups as resources for raising patient
       participation in donor programs and for addressing constraining
       privacy and informed consent policies

     Priority 2: Develop optimal study design and data analysis methods.
     These methods will define appropriate sample sizes and comparison
     groups to achieve statistical significance and will be informed by
     biologic and experimental variability.

     Barriers
     * Lack of data and high-quality samples to assess biologic and
       experimental variation
     * Lack of a mathematical paradigm for interpreting high-dimensional
       data analysis

     Resources
     * Rich source of analytical tools developed for other scientific
       disciplines that are adaptable to this setting

     Priority 3: Establish Centers of Excellence to apply leading-edge
     technologies to discover and validate signatures of cancer. These
     centers will provide the following:
     * Cost-efficient access to integrated technology platforms
     * Training and education in the use of these technologies
     * Access to advanced computing resources for data management and
       analysis

     Barriers

     The definition of molecular signatures by the systematic analysis of
     gene expression requires integrated facilities consisting of trained
     personnel, instrumentation for data generation, and computational
     infrastructure for data management and analysis. The following
     factors limit the ability to generate molecular signatures of
     cancer:
     * Lack of databases and software tools for integrating large,
       diverse, and complex data sets
     * Lack of availability of specialized advanced computing resources
     * Lack of standardized open-source tools for data representation and
       query languages
     * Lack of trained personnel at all levels
     * Lack of awareness of the requirements and the potential of the
       technologies by cancer biologists

     Resources
     * Targeted programs for development of innovative technologies by the
       National Cancer Institute
     * Potential for private/public sector partnerships

                        TREATMENT AND DRUG DISCOVERY

              Co-Chairs: Peter J. O'Dwyer and Branimir I. Sikic

             Participants:
            William T. Beck
              Mark Brady
            Larry Copeland
           David Gershenson

                            Barry B. Goldberg
                               Ann Kolker
                               Yi-Shin Kuo
                           Susan Lowell-Butler

                                                  Franco Muggia
                                              Sundaram Ramakrishnan

BACKGROUND: STATE OF THE SCIENCE

     The three major gynecologic cancers differ appreciably in their
     biologic and clinical characteristics and treatment approaches.
     Ovarian cancer is considered moderately responsive to many cytotoxic
     agents, particularly platinum drugs and taxanes. Although the large
     majority of patients respond favorably to initial therapy, only 20
     to 30 percent of patients with stage III disease are cured. Thus,
     drug resistance is still a dominant feature in this disease. Cancers
     of the cervix and endometrium are less responsive to cytotoxins than
     are ovarian epithelial cancers. Cancers of the cervix are
     characterized by a human papillomavirus etiology, the availability
     of a screening test to detect early stages, and the recent
     demonstration of major clinical benefit from combining chemotherapy
     and radiation therapy in localized but bulky tumors. Endometrial
     cancers arise in a much older population of women, and their
     etiology involves hormonal mechanisms.

     Considerable current research in the pharmaceutical industry has
     focused on developing new or improved cytotoxic agents. Examples
     include analogs of platinums and taxanes with improved toxicity and
     antitumor activity profiles, and the development of epothilones as
     non-cross-resistant antitubulin drugs. Some of these cytotoxins are
     likely to prove beneficial for patients with gynecologic cancers
     because of increased antitumor activity and/or lower toxicity than
     current agents.

     The past year in cancer therapy has been noteworthy for the approval
     of one of the first drugs that inhibits tyrosine kinase growth
     signaling. Gleevec, or STI-571, is a splendid example of how
     knowledge about the molecular pathogenesis of a cancer can lead to
     the identification of a therapeutic target, synthesis of a potent
     small-molecule inhibitor of the target, preclinical validation, and
     demonstration of remarkable clinical benefits.

     Progress in the treatment of gynecologic cancers is likely to result
     from the introduction of novel drugs against specific molecular
     targets that are implicated in the growth and malignant behavior of
     cancer cells. Many such drugs are currently in various stages of
     development. The targets include growth signaling tyrosine kinases,
     cell cycle regulation, angiogenesis, apoptosis, and others. In
     setting priorities for therapeutic development, the members of the
     breakout group made two assumptions. First, all of the important
     targets for cancer treatment have not yet been discovered, which
     presents a great opportunity. Second, efficient clinical testing for
     the hundreds of expected agents against known and future targets
     represents a major challenge to the oncology community.

RESEARCH PRIORITIES

     The two major priorities in drug discovery and development for
     gynecologic cancers are relevant to all three major gynecologic
     cancers. Special opportunities exist in cervical and ovarian cancer
     research to serially sample specimens to define molecular targets
     and genetic determinants of response to therapies.

     Priority 1: Identify and validate key molecular targets for
     therapies.
    a. Support for national resources for tissue acquisition and banking
       should be markedly increased.
       Rationale: Recent technologic developments permit analysis of all
       the expressed genes in tumor cells. It is widely believed that the
       pattern of gene expression in a particular tumor determines its
       aggressiveness, likelihood of metastasis, response to therapies,
       and potential to be cured. Fresh tissue is required for gene
       expression analysis. Currently, only one-third to one-half of
       specimens in the Cooperative Human Tissue Network sponsored by the
       National Cancer Institute (NCI) are suitable for studies requiring
       intact RNA. Furthermore, only a very small percentage of tumor
       specimens are obtained from patients who are currently entering
       clinical trials and for whom there are clinical data associated
       with the tissue samples.
       Specific Recommendations:
          + More and better tissues should be acquired, appropriately
            stored, and annotated. This will require funding of key
            personnel at the centers that are the major contributors of
            tissues to the network.
          + Serial sampling of specimens should be supported in clinical
            trials for evaluation of molecular factors contributing to
            response and resistance.
    b. Preclinical models of gynecologic cancers should be developed for
       validation of targets and testing of therapeutic agents.
       Rationale: Currently there are very few animal models for
       gynecologic cancers, and none that recapitulate the behavior of the
       human diseases. Such models might enable genetic manipulations for
       validation of targets and testing of new targeted therapeutic
       agents.
       Specific Recommendations: Major incremental funding should be
       provided to establish models of gynecologic cancers. These models
       might include murine syngeneic tumors, orthotopic and
       non-orthotopic human xenografts, transgenic mice, and other
       systems. They should be representative of the diversity of these
       diseases and should be suitable for validation of therapeutic
       targets and new drugs.
          + Gene expression profiling of RNA and proteins (genomics and
            proteomics) should be systematically applied in clinical
            specimens and tumor models of gynecologic cancers.
       Rationale: Data from recent and ongoing clinical trials in ovarian
       cancer should reveal genes or clusters of genes that are related to
       more malignant behavior, pathologic subtypes, and drug sensitivity
       versus resistance. Localized cancers of the cervix are anatomically
       accessible with minimally invasive procedures and thus represent a
       suitable clinical model for serial sampling of tumors during
       therapies. Ovarian cancers often provide an opportunity to obtain
       serial samples of tumor at diagnosis and subsequent surgeries,
       although "second-look" operations are not usually performed as
       standard procedures.
       Specific Recommendations:
          + Funding mechanisms should be introduced for translational
            studies in clinical trials that do not require-as they
            currently do-a grant review and implementation process of 8
            months or longer.
          + Trials should be solicited of serial tumor sampling of locally
            advanced cervical cancer in the context of new therapeutic
            development.

     Priority 2: Optimize therapeutic clinical trials in gynecologic
     cancers.

     This priority presents a major challenge because of the large and
     increasing number of drugs available for development and the
     relatively limited number of participants in clinical trials.
     Optimization of therapeutic clinical trials in gynecologic cancers
     will be furthered by the following approaches:
    a. Develop and implement surrogate markers for drug efficacy in
       clinical trials of new and existing agents.
       Rationale: Large numbers of targeted therapies will be emerging in
       the next 5 years. The lack of reliable models requires efficient
       clinical testing. We must be able to rapidly address these
       questions: Is the drug getting to the target? Is it affecting the
       target as planned? Is the target interaction producing the desired
       effect?
       Specific Recommendations:
          + Increase support for translational endpoints in clinical
            trials. Such support may include tumor tissue profiles, serum
            markers, and novel imaging technologies. The NCI should focus
            on barriers to these trials: patient accrual, physician
            reluctance, regulatory burdens, infrastructure support. The
            real costs of acquiring tissues and performing assays should
            be covered.
          + Spearhead research efforts in discovery and implementation of
            intermediate endpoints of effects of (often cytostatic)
            targeted interventions.
          + Foster broader use of pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic
            analyses in both early and late clinical trials through
            modeling with limited sampling techniques, quantitative and
            validated imaging, and genomic signatures of drug effect.
    b. Facilitate patient and physician participation in clinical trials
       of new drugs.
       Rationale: Only 2 to 3 percent of patients with gynecologic
       malignancies enter clinical trials. Even in Cancer Cooperative
       Groups, the bulk of accrual is accounted for by a small proportion
       of the physician membership. Barriers include lack of information
       to patients, lack of interest and information on the part of
       practicing physicians, economic disincentives to physician
       participation, lack of infrastructure support, consent requirements
       which go beyond those essential to informing patients of risks,
       benefits and procedures.
       Specific Recommendations:
          + Increase direct marketing of clinical trials to patients and
            physicians through a targeted public education effort with the
            participation of physician and patient advocate groups.
          + Increase physician education on clinical trials through
            engagement of physician organizations.
          + Direct funds to infrastructure support for physician
            participation in clinical trials.
          + Address regulatory obstacles through central institutional
            review boards and simplified consent procedures and reporting
            requirements.
    c. Develop pharmacogenomic approaches to predict drug response and
       toxicity.
       Rationale: Variability in patients' responses to therapy reflects
       differences in genetic make-up as expressed in quantitative and
       qualitative differences in gene products. These differences may be
       detected at the level of DNA, RNA, or protein through the
       application of novel technologies. Currently the purview of select
       academic and commercial sites, these powerful analyses have the
       potential to identify patients at risk of toxicity, patients in
       whom the intervention may work, and even the doses that are likely
       to be needed for efficacy.
       Specific Recommendations:
          + Support (rapidly and without burdens of paperwork) the
            application of these techniques to samples obtained in
            clinical trials.
          + Limit the increasing consent burden that is a growing
            deterrent to such studies.
    d. Make new drugs available to patients with gynecologic cancers.
       Rationale: The testing of new agents in gynecologic cancers is
       often delayed because these cancers are less prevalent than some
       other cancer types. The early clinical trials step will be a
       barrier to the investigation of promising targeted therapies in
       coming years. The large number of promising candidate molecules
       demands that a reevaluation of this system be undertaken. In
       parallel, growing numbers of patients who are aware of
       opportunities to participate in clinical trials will create a
       widespread demand for clinical trials. This demand should be met by
       increasing access to novel treatments for patients with gynecologic
       malignancies.
       Specific Recommendations:
          + Make the evaluation of novel agents in gynecologic cancers a
            priority early in the course of development of new drugs.
          + Implement physician and patient education to ensure enrollment
            in clinical trials early in the course of the disease (first,
            second, or third line), rather than referral after the failure
            of numerous marginally effective therapies.

                                 IMMUNOLOGY

       Co-Chairs: Peggy A. Crowley-Nowick, Nora Disis and Douglas Lowy

                 Participants:
               Terri Cornelison
               Ralph S. Freedman
                Kimberly Leslie

                                Kevin G. Osteen
                                 Martha Romans
                                 Ellen Sheets

                                               Cornelia Trimble
                                                  Judith Wolf

BACKGROUND: STATE OF THE SCIENCE

     The immune system plays a role in modulating the growth of tumors in
     animal models. Ovarian, cervical, and endometrial cancers can serve
     as model tumor systems to evaluate immunologic questions that may be
     translatable to other tumor types.

     For example, the peritoneum of ovarian cancer patients is
     extraordinarily immunologically active. Ascitic fluid is rich in
     both lymphocytes and antigen-presenting cells. However, cancer cells
     grow despite this rich immune environment. Ovarian cancer offers an
     optimal model system for investigating immunosuppressive factors
     induced by the tumor or even by immune cells.

     Cervical cancer also offers a model immunologic system. Human
     papillomavirus (HPV) infection is the main etiologic factor in
     cervical cancer. Cervical cancer is a primary model for assessing
     the development of mucosal immunity. The initiation and maintenance
     of antigen-specific immune responses at the mucosal surface is
     necessary for the eradication of precursor and progressive cervical
     lesions. Principles defined in the generation and evaluation of
     mucosal immunity in the development of cervical cancer could be
     directly applied to other mucosal-based malignancies such as oral
     cancer or colon cancer.

     Finally, hormonal influences may affect the immune response. The
     endometrial cancer model offers a system for evaluating the role of
     estrogen and progesterone in influencing the immune
     microenvironment. Studies performed in this area could have direct
     application to hormone-driven tumors such as breast and prostate
     cancers. Thus, evaluation of immunity in gynecologic tumors will not
     only advance the development of new therapies for the treatment of
     these diseases, but will also establish paradigms of immune
     evaluation applicable to other human malignancies.

     Patients with gynecologic cancers are being treated with
     immune-based therapies with mixed clinical results. Immunologic
     treatment will play a major role in the clinical treatment of
     gynecologic cancers. Effective translation of immune-based therapy
     can occur only if the underlying mechanisms of the immune response
     are better understood and defined.

     Clearly, all the components needed to stimulate immune responses-for
     example, APC and T cells-are present in the peritoneum of ovarian
     cancer patients. However, T cells specific for ovarian cancer cells
     in the peritoneum are detectable at only very low precursor
     frequencies. Preliminary studies demonstrate that both tumor and
     immune system cells may be involved in limiting the cancer-specific
     immune response; however, the
