http://newsdesk.inel.gov/contextnews.cfm?ID=277

   [ineelHeaderLogo.jpg]   Idaho National Engineering and Environmental
                           Laboratory
                           INEEL Home (http://www.inel.gov)
                           INEEL Newsdesk Home (http://newsdesk.inel.gov)
                           Back

   DOE News Release
   FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
   January 18, 2002

   NEWS MEDIA CONTACTS:
   John Walsh, 208-526-8646, jhw@inel.gov

   INEEL names new director for Environmental Technologies

   Noted INEEL researcher and manager Harold Blackman has been named
   associate laboratory director responsible for researching and
   developing environmental technologies at the Department of Energy's
   Idaho National Engineering and Environmental Laboratory (INEEL).
   Blackman had served as INEEL's director of environmental and human
   systems.
   Bill Shipp, INEEL president and laboratory director, said "Harold's
   work will back up one of the laboratory's major strengths-moving
   scientific discoveries into engineering applications that resolve
   environmental challenges." Shipp is quick to add that, "Harold is known
   for strong leadership and a 'can-do' attitude. He's the right person to
   serve alongside others to ensure that the Laboratory delivers a highly
   respected R&D program."
   Paul Kearns, INEEL vice president of research and development and
   deputy laboratory director, called Blackman's appointment vital to the
   Laboratory's future, adding, "What we succeed in doing at the INEEL has
   important consequences within the DOE complex.
   "For example," explained Kearns, "when an environmental problem is
   successfully treated at the INEEL, the experience puts us in a prime
   position to help others solve similar environmental dilemmas across the
   nation, too."
   Blackman will be responsible for shepherding research and technologies
   from their first stages of development and demonstration to their
   deployment in the field. Ensuring integration of R&D activities with
   INEEL's cleanup efforts will be his top priority.
   He will also play a major role in leading and managing DOE's core
   environmental management laboratories-a group of national labs that
   combine their knowledge and resources to address individual site and
   national environmental problems.
   Blackman has held many management positions since being hired by the
   INEEL in 1982. In 1994, he helped organize the first international
   conference on human reliability models in Sweden that became the basis
   for second-generation human reliability methodologies. In 1997, he
   earned the highest professional distinction from his technical peers,
   being designated a Fellow of the Human Factors Society.
   Also in 1997, he received a NOVA technical excellence award from
   Lockheed Martin Corporation for his significant contribution in the
   field of human factors engineering to improve the safety and
   reliability of aviation and nuclear industry operations. That same
   year, he was the general chairman for the Institute of Electrical and
   Electronics Engineer's sixth conference on human factors in nuclear
   power.
   Blackman has served on committees for the National Academy of Science,
   National Research Council, and advisory boards for the Nuclear
   Regulatory Commission. He serves on the editorial boards of two
   international journals. He has co-authored three books, and published
   19 journal articles and more than four dozen technical papers.
   He was given the "Executive of the Year" award in 2001 by the Eagle
   Rock Chapter of the International Association of Administrative
   Professionals, and was  selected as "INEEL Manager of the Year" in 2000
   by the Idaho National Management Association.
   Blackman serves as adjunct faculty for Idaho State University, and is
   on ISU's Engineering Advisory Board. He holds master's and doctoral
   degrees in educational psychology and a bachelor's degree in secondary
   education with a major in biological sciences from Arizona State
   University.
   The INEEL is a science-based, applied engineering national laboratory
   dedicated to supporting the U.S. Department of Energy's missions in
   environment, energy, science and national security. The INEEL is
   operated for the DOE by Bechtel BWXT Idaho, LLC.
   --INEEL--
   02-008

   [ineelHeaderLogo.jpg]   Idaho National Engineering and Environmental
                           Laboratory
                           INEEL Home (http://www.inel.gov)
                           INEEL Newsdesk Home (http://newsdesk.inel.gov)
                           Back
