http://www.dea.gov/pubs/intel/01008/index.html

                  DEA

                       U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration
                                                www.dea.gov

        Site Directory What's New Contact Us Return Home Publications

                       ECSTASY: ROLLING ACROSS EUROPE

                 photo - Ecstasy tablets and a map of Europe

   The Attorney General has determined that publication of this periodical
                             is necessary in the
   transaction of the public business required by law of the Department of
                                  Justice.

   This report was prepared by the Strategic Europe/Asia/Africa Unit of
   the Office of International Intelligence. Comments and requests for
   copies are welcome and may be directed to the Intelligence Production
   Unit, Intelligence Division, DEA Headquarters, at (202) 307-8726.

                                                               August 2001
                                                                 DEA-01008
     __________________________________________________________________

                                  CONTENTS

      EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
        INTRODUCTION

          SEIZURES

 LAW ENFORCEMENT INITIATIVES

            LOGOS

           OUTLOOK

                                              PRODUCTION, TRAFFICKING, AND ABUSE
                              * Production
                              * Historical Background
                              * The Scheduling of MDMA
                              * The Effects of Ecstasy
                              * Trafficking
                              * Global Trafficking
                              * Trafficking Methods
                              * Abuse
     __________________________________________________________________

                              EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

   Over the course of the 1990s, the production, trafficking, and abuse of
   Ecstasy in Europe and internationally has grown exponentially.
   Initially, Ecstasy was associated with the rave scene; but since the
   late 1990s, its abuse has expanded, affecting a broader cross-section
   of society.

   The majority of the world’s Ecstasy continues to be produced in
   clandestine laboratories in the Netherlands and, to a lesser extent,
   Belgium. Given the increasingly global demand for the drug and the high
   profit potential derived from its sale, production will likely expand
   to other areas in the future.

   Ecstasy trafficking within Europe continues to be dominated principally
   by European trafficking organizations, moving the drug to consumer
   markets via overland routes from the production zone. Though many
   European groups are involved in international Ecstasy trafficking,
   other groups, including Israeli and Russian drug traffickers, move
   significant quantities of Ecstasy to international markets, including
   North America.

   At the Member State- and the European Union-level, governments are
   initiating and supporting counter-Ecstasy initiatives, including both
   law enforcement and public information campaigns. These efforts,
   coupled with continuing international cooperation, target all aspects
   of Ecstasy production, trafficking, and abuse.

   Despite concerted efforts by European legislators and law enforcement
   officials, as well as their counterparts around the world, Ecstasy will
   likely remain one of the principal drugs of demand in Europe and
   internationally.

               Signature of Steven W. Casteel, Assistant Administrator for
                                                              Intelligence
     __________________________________________________________________

   map of Europe INTRODUCTION

   A retrospective evaluation of the drug situation in Europe, over the
   course of the 1990s, demonstrates an overall increase in the quantity
   of drugs (all categories) seized. During 1999, the International
   Criminal Police Organization (INTERPOL) reported increases in the total
   quantity seized in all major drug categories, including cocaine,
   heroin, cannabis products, and Ecstasy.^1 The most significant increase
   in Europe, however, came in the seizure of Ecstasy tablets. According
   to INTERPOL, more than 14.1 million Ecstasy tablets were seized during
   1999, nearly triple the 1998 total. The higher seizure totals not only
   reflect the volume of illegal drugs flowing through the European
   market, but also more effective reporting of drug seizures in Europe.

   During the mid-1990s, assessments of the Ecstasy situation in Europe
   noted the increasing threat posed by Ecstasy as party goers across the
   European continent were swept into the rave culture. By the late 1990s,
   the rave phenomenon had gained momentum internationally and the Ecstasy
   threat was highlighted by unprecedented demand for the drug and an
   exponential increase in the number of tablets seized.

   This report focuses on MDMA and other amphetamine analogues
   collectively known as Ecstasy, addressing the current trends in
   production, trafficking, and abuse in Europe.

   PRODUCTION, TRAFFICKING, AND ABUSE

   The decade of the 1990s witnessed an increase in the production,
   trafficking, and abuse of synthetic drugs, especially Ecstasy,
   throughout Europe.^2 The rave phenomenon served as the primary vehicle
   for the perpetuation of MDMA use, as young party goers turned to the
   drug to maintain the frenetic pace of the popular round-the-clock,
   high-decibel dance parties. The demand for Ecstasy paralleled the rave
   scene as it swept across Europe and arrived in the United States.

   Production

   Precursor Chemicals

   An estimated 80 percent of the world’s Ecstasy is produced in
   clandestine laboratories in the Netherlands and, to a lesser extent,
   Belgium using a variety of precursor chemicals, such as
   safrole/isosafrole, 3,4-MDP2P (3,4-methylenedioxyphenyl-2-propanone),
   methylamine, etc., in combination with common chemicals. According to
   Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) reporting, the chemicals enter
   the region primarily from Asia, often via Eastern Europe. In addition,
   clandestine precursor chemical production laboratories have been
   reported in Eastern Europe.

   photo - A chemical seizure During 1999, according to INTERPOL, several
   seizures of chemicals used in the production of Ecstasy were effected
   in Europe. One 5-metric-ton (MT) seizure of piperonal was made in Spain
   and another of 2.64 MT was effected in the Slovak Republic. The 2.64 MT
   shipment originated in China and transited Romania and Hungary enroute
   to the Slovak Republic. Slovak authorities also seized 4.4 MT of
   3,4-MDP2P. This 3,4-MDP2P originated in Hong Kong and transited the
   Czech Republic and Hungary en route to the Slovak Republic. Slovak
   authorities believe this 3,4-MDP2P was being shipped for the illicit
   production of Ecstasy in the Slovak Republic or a neighboring country.
   In addition, during 1999, according to INTERPOL, one laboratory for the
   production of precursors for the synthesis of synthetic drugs was
   seized in Poland.

   In October 2000, Dutch authorities seized 8,250 liters of 3,4-MDP2P in
   Rotterdam, Netherlands. According to Dutch counterparts, this shipment
   originated in China and arrived in Lisbon, Portugal, via maritime
   shipping container from Hong Kong. The 3,4-MDP2P was transported
   overland to the Netherlands. Based on current conversion rates, a
   spokesperson for the Dutch forensics laboratory estimated that this
   amount of 3,4-MDP2P might have produced over 112 million tablets of
   Ecstasy.

                              HISTORICAL BACKGROUND

       In the late 1980s, a distinctive kind of music and dancing known as
   “acid house” or “techno” emerged on the Spanish resort island of Ibiza,
      known as “XTC Island,” a vacation destination popular with British
          youth and young adults. During the summer of 1988, the techno
     phenomenon took root in the United Kingdom as thousands of aficionados
     gathered to create what has been called Britain’s “Summer of Love.”
     These music-and-laser-light dance parties evolved into events known as
      “raves,” which were organized each weekend in warehouses and fields
      throughout England. To maintain the frenetic round-the-clock pace of
     this high-decibel, synthesized musical environment, participants turned
                                  to Ecstasy.^3

        The decade of the 1990s was marked by unprecedented growth in the
      demand for MDMA. Known by the street names Ecstasy, E, Adam, Empathy,
     or XTC, it gained popularity with rave- and club-goers across Europe as
     the “feel good” drug, inducing feelings of solidarity, openness, and
         contentment. The use of Ecstasy, however, may have long-lasting
       negative effects on the brain, such as altered memory function and
                                  motor skills.

     Today, the rave and nightclub scenes remain popular across Europe, with
      these venues continuing to serve as the primary markets for Ecstasy.
         The consumer base is growing, however, and Ecstasy use is being
           reported by an increasingly broad cross-section of society.

   Production Laboratories and Capacity

   During the 1960s, according to Dutch authorities, the Limburg and
   Brabant Provinces in the southern Netherlands, along the borders of
   Germany and Belgium, were known for large-scale amphetamine production.
   Throughout the 1990s, and today, this region continues to be utilized
   by producers of synthetic drugs, though the focus has become Ecstasy.
   Many groups, including Dutch, Belgian, and Russian criminal
   organizations, are allegedly involved in the production of Ecstasy
   within the region.

                           THE SCHEDULING OF MDMA

    MDMA (3, 4-methylenedioxy-methamphetamine), also known as Ecstasy, was
    first synthesized in Germany circa 1912 and patented in 1914; however,
      it was never marketed. Since that time, MDMA has been inconclusively
          evaluated for clinical use and briefly considered as an appetite
    suppressant. Concerns regarding abuse prompted officials in the United
       States and the United Kingdom to place the drug on their controlled
   substances lists. In the United States, the DEA initiated the emergency
      designation of MDMA as a controlled substance in June 1985. In 1988,
   MDMA was classified in the United States as a Schedule I drug under the
           Controlled Substances Act. In the United Kingdom, the family of
     amphetamine drugs was scheduled through the 1971 Misuse of Drugs Act.
   MDMA, specifically, was scheduled in 1977 through a Modification Order.
     Other European countries followed, with the Netherlands, Belgium, and
     Italy, to name a few, listing MDMA as a controlled substance in 1988.

   Clandestine laboratories have traditionally been established in the
   rural areas of these provinces in the southern Netherlands and
   northeastern Belgium to minimize the likelihood of neighbors or
   passersby alerting authorities to the presence of the laboratories. The
   border regions also are attractive to traffickers, who hope to
   circumvent law enforcement officials by crisscrossing jurisdictions.
   Additionally, the proximity to Germany, Luxembourg, and France offers
   easy access to markets and transportation hubs for export throughout
   Europe and internationally.

   Laboratory responsibility generally is divided between production sites
   and tableting sites. These sites range in size from small, free-lance
   laboratories to large-scale professional-capacity laboratories. The
   level of technical expertise required for the production of Ecstasy is
   relatively high. However, there are indications that once a chemist
   establishes the “recipe” for the conversion process, individuals
   lacking formal chemistry training or expertise may assume daily
   operational responsibilities. This appears to be the case in Belgium,
   where detailed operating instructions have been found at seized
   laboratory sites.

   During 1999, the majority of the Ecstasy production remained
   concentrated in the southern provinces of the Netherlands. According to
   the Dutch Annual Synthetic Drug Statistical Report, 23 MDMA-related
   laboratories were seized during 1999. Laboratory seizures for 2000 will
   likely exceed 1999 totals, with 23 laboratories seized through October
   2000. Among the laboratories seized by Dutch authorities, during 2000,
   was the largest MDMA production site located in the Netherlands to
   date. Seizures at this site included 300 kilograms of MDMA powder and
   approximately 49,000 liters of precursor chemicals.^4 In addition,
   Dutch authorities discovered 44 cylinders of hydrogen gas, several
   hundred pieces of glassware, and almost 4,000 liters of chemical waste.

                            THE EFFECTS OF ECSTASY

     photo - Rave party-goer MDMA is a stimulant with mild hallucinogenic
       properties. It is generally administered in pill or capsule form,
         though it may also be sniffed, snorted, injected, or used in
   suppository form. The 2- to 8-hour high, or “roll,” usually is produced
     within 15 minutes of administration. Users are said to be “rolling”
                     while under the influence of Ecstasy.

    Rave-goers use the drug not only to sustain their frenetic pace during
    the all-night dance parties, but also to “feel good” and enhance the
     rave experience. Users maintain that Ecstasy amplifies the visual and
       tactile senses and produces feelings of well-being, contentment,
       empathy, and love. To magnify the effects of Ecstasy, users often
       inhale menthol products to stimulate dilated bronchi, and gaze at
         rapidly moving lights or glo-sticks to enhance visual acuity.

    The “feel-good” effects produced by the use of Ecstasy, coupled with
     its consumption in tablet form, leads many users to believe that the
      drug is relatively harmless. However, according to the US National
      Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA), MDMA users face psychological risks
     similar to those associated with amphetamines and cocaine, including
     confusion, depression, sleep problems, drug cravings, severe anxiety,
    and paranoia. Recent research findings also link prolonged Ecstasy use
       to damage to those parts of the brain responsible for thought and
                                    memory.

     The physical symptoms of Ecstasy are many, and vary depending on the
    individual and other substances consumed. MDMA use increases heart rate
    and blood pressure. It causes involuntary teeth clenching, which users
     often attempt to prevent with pacifiers or lollipops; muscle tension;
     nausea; blurred vision; rapid eye movement; and fainting. As the body
    overheats, inducing sweating and dehydration, MDMA users consume large
     amounts of water. Dehydration, coupled with inadequate ventilation at
      many rave locations, have contributed to many MDMA-related deaths.

   photo - laboratory equipment Ecstasy production also has been reported
   in countries neighboring the Netherlands. According to German
   authorities, one laboratory of multiregional significance, capable of
   producing approximately 300,000 tablets, was seized during 1999. During
   the same time period, according to INTERPOL, four Ecstasy laboratories
   were dismantled in Belgium. Two of these laboratories were seized in
   the Limburg Province of northern Belgium, near the border with the
   Netherlands.^5 Both laboratories were professionally equipped, and
   capable of large-scale production.^6 During 2000, Belgian authorities
   dismantled 10 laboratories.

   photo - a tableting machine Although Western Europe has traditionally
   been the focal point of Ecstasy production, some minor production has
   been reported in Eastern Europe. More production is likely to develop
   in the future given rising demand and the large profit potential of
   Ecstasy trafficking. The countries of Eastern Europe are perfectly
   positioned to emerge as producers of Ecstasy, given a combination of
   factors including the availability of highly skilled and educated
   chemists, access to chemicals, and established networks for the
   manufacture and trafficking of synthetic drugs—primarily amphetamine.

   During 1999, according to INTERPOL, two laboratories for the production
   of Ecstasy were discovered in the Ukraine. In addition, during 1999,
   Estonian police found evidence of synthetic drug laboratories believed
   to be producing Ecstasy. Estonian, Finnish, and Swedish authorities
   believe that Ecstasy laboratories in Estonia are supplying the Nordic
   and Baltic markets. This region may also be receiving Ecstasy from
   Latvia. Authorities in Hungary report that Ecstasy is produced within
   their country.

                     WHOLESALE AND RETAIL ECSTASY PRICES
                       FOR WESTERN AND EASTERN EUROPE

       Estimated Ecstasy Price per Tablet Amounts Shown in US Dollars

                     Country

                                  Wholesale
                                                  Retail
                   Netherlands
                                $1.00 - $2.00
                                              $7.00 - $12.00
                     Belgium
                                $1.00 - $2.00
                                              $7.00 - $12.00
                      Italy
                                $4.00 - $5.00
                                              $25.00 - $30.00
                   Scandinavia
                                $5.00 - $8.00
                                              $10.00 - $20.00
                       UK
                                $1.00 - $3.00
                                              $15.00 - $18.00
                     Ireland
                                     $1.00
                                                  $10.00
                     Germany
                                       N/A
                                              $5.00 - $15.00
                   Switzerland
                                        N/A
                                              $6.00 - $35.00
                      Spain
                                $2.00 - $3.00
                                              $4.75 - $17.00
                     France
                                       N/A
                                              $20.00 - $30.00
                     Poland
                                       N/A
                                                   $3.00
                 Czech Republic
                                         N/A
                                                  $13.00
                     Hungary
                                       N/A
                                               $5.00 - $7.50
                     Romania
                                       N/A
                                               $6.00 - $8.00
                    Slovenia
                                       N/A
                                              $9.00 - $15.00
                 United States
                                $8.00 - $10.00
                                              $20.00 - $40.00

   Sources: DEA Country Offices: The Hague, Rome, Copenhagen, London,
   Vienna, Berlin, Madrid, Paris, Bern, 2000.

   Although no significant laboratory seizures have been reported in the
   Czech Republic or Slovak Republic since 1995, significant seizures of
   3,4-MDP2P in the Slovak Republic may be indicative of Ecstasy
   production in that country or its neighbors.

   Production Hazards

   Ecstasy production is not a risk-free enterprise. Due to the unstable
   nature of the precursor chemicals, combined with the relative
   inexperience of the chemists manufacturing the drug, the clandestine
   laboratories are at risk of explosion. In addition, with the growing
   number of Ecstasy laboratories in Europe, environmental degradation
   increasingly is a concern, given the illegal disposal of hazardous
   waste. According to the Dutch USD, during 1999, more than 100 such dump
   sites were identified, primarily in the southern Netherlands and near
   Amsterdam.

   The disposal of chemical waste is likely to gain attention in the
   future, as Ecstasy manufacturers, in an effort to avoid detection,
   transport the chemical waste products across borders and dump them in
   neighboring countries. According to the DEA Berlin Country Office, the
   number of burned vehicles found in Germany containing chemical waste
   from clandestine laboratories is on the rise.

   Cost/Price Structure

   Ecstasy is attractive to traffickers due to the significant profits
   derived from its sale, not only in Europe, but throughout the world.
   According to DEA reporting, in the Netherlands, the initial investment
   required to establish a MDMA laboratory is the equivalent of between
   US$30,000 and US$70,000, depending on the size and production capacity
   of the laboratory. The average production cost per tablet in the
   Netherlands is the equivalent of between US$0.25 and US$0.50. Wholesale
   prices per tablet in the Netherlands range between US$1 and US$2 and
   street or club prices range between US$7 and US$12. As a result, even
   close to the production region, Ecstasy traffickers net significant
   profits at the street level.

   Trafficking

   Trafficking in Europe

   Europe’s economic prosperity, sophisticated transportation and
   communications infrastructures, and reputable financial system have,
   for years, attracted those engaged in both legitimate and illegitimate
   commerce. Europe’s attractiveness to drug traffickers may increase as
   the European Union (EU) Member States move forward with single-market
   reforms, continue free movement under the Schengen Agreement, and
   consider further steps toward broader and deeper integration.^7

   Attracted by the profits associated with Ecstasy, traffickers smuggle
   the drug from the Netherlands and Belgium to markets in neighboring
   countries and internationally. According to DEA reporting, European
   traffickers, including Dutch, Belgian, and Russian criminal
   organizations, commonly are involved in Ecstasy smuggling, not only as
   producers and principal traffickers, but also as logistical support to
   other smuggling groups.

   In addition to European trafficking groups, DEA reporting demonstrates
   the involvement of Israeli criminal organizations in Ecstasy smuggling.
   There are indications that some of these smuggling groups include
   individuals of Russian or Georgian descent, who hold Israeli
   citizenship. The Israeli criminals primarily are involved in the
   transportation of MDMA to consumer markets outside Europe, relying on
   “producer groups” for the supply of Ecstasy.^8 The DEA’s BCO reports
   clearly established links to Israeli groups in 12 of the 39 Ecstasy
   cases initiated by the BCO between 1998 and 2000.

   Belgium’s role as a major center in the international diamond trade
   often is exploited by the Israeli drug trafficking groups. These
   traffickers often take advantage of their ethnic connections within the
   diamond-trading community in an effort to avoid detection by law
   enforcement officials. The connections to the diamond industry also
   provide Israeli traffickers with a well-established infrastructure in
   which to operate. In addition, custom-made luggage designed for
   transporting diamonds is readily available in Antwerp. This luggage is
   well-suited for use by drug traffickers smuggling Ecstasy.

   Israeli traffickers generally are young, well-educated, and
   multilingual, often with Hebrew/Yiddish, English, and Russian language
   ability. The groups are highly adaptable and mobile, maintaining
   contacts throughout Europe and internationally. They use a variety of
   technologies for communication purposes.

   Ecstasy trafficking spans the European Continent, with the countries
   neighboring the source zone not only serving as markets for Ecstasy,
   but also as transshipment points. Within Europe, local European
   organizations control Ecstasy trafficking and obtain the drug in the
   Netherlands and Belgium.
     * In Austria, law enforcement authorities report that Ecstasy is
       smuggled into the country by traffickers from Belgium, Hungary,
       Poland, the Czech Republic, and the Netherlands.
     * The DEA Berlin Country Office reports that Ecstasy trafficking from
       Germany to the United States has increased, with the majority of
       the trafficking controlled by Israeli groups from the Netherlands.
       Among the smuggling methods used by traffickers moving Ecstasy from
       Germany to North America is express mail. INTERPOL reporting
       indicates that, according to the German police, more than 700
       kilograms of Ecstasy (approximately 2,100,000 tablets)^9, in at
       least 50 deliveries, were sent from Germany to the United States
       between March and August 1999. According to INTERPOL, the Ecstasy
       tablets in these cases were produced in the Netherlands, concealed
       in boxes of puzzles, and transported via passenger vehicle across
       the border into Germany. The packages were sent to North America
       via express mail.
     * Over the past several years, according to the DEA Paris Country
       Office, a significant increase in the use of airports in France by
       couriers smuggling Ecstasy to the United States has been noted.
     * Most Ecstasy enters the United Kingdom via the Channel ports
       concealed in vehicles or in freight. The sources of supply
       reportedly are located in the Netherlands and Belgium. Synthetic
       drugs increasingly have been found in “cocktail” loads, (large
       shipments containing a variety of drugs).
     * According to the DEA Rome Country Office, the opening of Italy’s
       borders to neighboring countries in 1998 under the Schengen
       Agreement facilitated the trafficking of drugs from other European
       countries. According to Italian authorities, the Netherlands is the
       source country for 85 percent of the MDMA found in Italy.
     * Much of the Ecstasy available in the Nordic countries is smuggled
       by groups from the Netherlands and Belgium in conjunction with
       local traffickers. In a recent investigation, Swedish law
       enforcement officials arrested four subjects: two Dutch nationals;
       one Swedish national; and one Yugoslavian national, following the
       seizure of 100,000 Ecstasy tablets. Danish law enforcement
       counterparts report that most of the MDMA being seized in Denmark
       originates in the Netherlands, although authorities suspect
       laboratories in the Czech Republic and Poland also supply Ecstasy
       to the region.
     * Icelandic police continue to report their suspicions that members
       of outlaw motorcycle gangs are involved in MDMA trafficking in
       Iceland. In addition, seizure information demonstrates that Iceland
       is used as a transshipment country for Ecstasy destined for North
       America. According to the US Customs Service (USCS), between June
       and November 2000, Ecstasy seizures were effected from couriers
       arriving on international flights from Iceland at airports in New
       York, Maryland, and Massachusetts.
     * US Department of State reporting indicates that Ecstasy is smuggled
       into Poland overland from the Netherlands, Belgium, and Germany.
       Couriers utilize passenger rail to smuggle Ecstasy from the source
       region to the Slovak Republic.
     * According to INTERPOL, Hungarian trafficking groups control the
       smuggling and distribution of Ecstasy within Hungary, where most of
       the Ecstasy is destined for local consumption. The sources for
       Ecstasy available in Hungary, according to INTERPOL, are the
       Netherlands and Germany.
     * Slovenian authorities indicate that traffickers in Ljubljana,
       Slovenia, are obtaining Ecstasy from the Netherlands and Belgium
       and smuggling it into Florida. During 1998, Slovenian police noted
       an increase in the amount of Ecstasy seized from individual
       Slovenian nationals transporting the drug from the Netherlands and
       Hungary.
     * DEA reporting indicates that much of the Ecstasy in Estonia is
       smuggled from Western Europe by young people traveling to the
       region on holiday or for educational purposes. Estonian police
       report that most Ecstasy dealers appear to be young, ethnic
       Estonians with connections to Estonian traffickers operating in
       other parts of Europe. Ecstasy has also been smuggled from the
       Netherlands to the United States via Estonia.
     * Lithuanian police report the increased availability of Ecstasy
       within the country, with intelligence pointing to laboratories in
       Poland as the source of supply. Polish criminal groups are
       allegedly involved in the transportation and distribution of
       Ecstasy not only within Lithuania, but also to the Nordic
       countries.

                             GLOBAL TRAFFICKING

      Ecstasy trafficking from Europe is increasingly a global concern.

                        The United States and Canada

    Over the course of the 1990s, as the rave phenomenon swept across the
   Atlantic and permeated North America, the demand for Ecstasy followed.
       Ecstasy seizures in the United States and Canada have increased
   steadily over the course of the past decade, from 196 tablets seized by
     the DEA in the United States in 1993 to more than 3 million tablets
   seized by the DEA in 2000, according to preliminary estimates. Several
    large seizures of Ecstasy during 2000 have propelled totals to record
   levels. In July 2000, the DEA and the USCS in Los Angeles made a record
      seizure of more than 2 million Ecstasy tablets in an air freight
   shipment arriving from France. In November 2000, the DEA, the USCS, and
        the FBI, in conjunction with state and local law enforcement
    authorities in Florida, seized approximately 635,000 Ecstasy tablets
     and arrested three Hungarian nationals. Also during November 2000,
    authorities in New York seized approximately 600,000 Ecstasy tablets.
      This scenario was mirrored in Canada. In September 2000, Canadian
   authorities intercepted two sizeable Ecstasy shipments, the largest, a
    seizure of approximately 246,000 Ecstasy tablets, was discovered on a
      ship at the Port of Montreal. The shipment originated in Belgium.

   Air couriers and mail parcels remain the primary method for traffickers
     transporting Ecstasy shipments to the United States and Canada. New
    York City, Miami, Los Angeles, Montreal, and Toronto are the primary
     ports of entry for couriers arriving from both major and secondary
    European airports. Newark, Pittsburgh, Atlanta, New Orleans, Houston,
    Dallas, San Francisco, San Diego, Seattle, Boston, and Baltimore are
   gaining popularity with Ecstasy traffickers entering the United States.

                            Asia and the Pacific

   DEA and INTERPOL reporting indicates increasing trafficking of MDMA to
     the Asia-Pacific region. Historic ties between Europe and Southeast
      Asia, stemming from the colonial period, facilitate this pattern.
    INTERPOL has reported several seizures that occurred between January
    1999 and August 2000 that involved ethnic Chinese from Singapore and
      Malaysia who smuggled heroin to Europe and returned to Asia with
   Ecstasy. Often, the smuggling routes entailed travel from Amsterdam to
     Malaysia, Singapore, or Indonesia, with further distribution of the
             drug in Australia and other Asia-Pacific countries.

   Several significant seizures of MDMA have recently been effected in the
     Asia-Pacific region. In June 2000, INTERPOL Hong Kong reported the
   arrest of a Dutch national of Chinese origin and the seizure of 320,000
   Ecstasy tablets. The contraband was found in the subject’s luggage. The
     tablets were described as beige in color and bearing the Mitsubishi
     logo. This seizure was the largest of its kind reported by INTERPOL
                        Hong Kong, as of August 2000.

     In September 2000, Japanese authorities effected the largest single
   seizure of Ecstasy in Japan to date, seizing 25,383 Ecstasy tablets and
   arresting one subject pursuant to a customs inspection. The Ecstasy was
    concealed within the false sides of a suitcase. According to Japanese
      authorities, this seizure was valued at the equivalent of US$1.12
                                  million.

    Ecstasy use has been reported throughout the Asia-Pacific region. In
      Singapore, in the late 1990s, law enforcement officials initiated
     enforcement efforts aimed at certain nightclubs, discotheques, and
    karaoke bars, resulting in increased arrests and seizures related to
     Ecstasy. During 2000, Ecstasy use reportedly increased in Malaysia,
   Indonesia, and Australia. Limited MDMA use also has been reported among
   the wealthy in Bangkok, Hong Kong, and Shanghai, although it is not yet
                        considered a serious problem.

                       Latin America and the Caribbean

   Latin America and the Caribbean are becoming transshipment regions for
       Ecstasy destined for North America. DEA and INTERPOL reporting
      indicated that, as law enforcement officials began to focus their
   attention on the smuggling methods and routes utilized to move Ecstasy
     from the source area to North America, organizations simultaneously
       altered their modus operandi to avoid detection, turning to new
    transshipment points in Latin America and the Caribbean. In addition,
      reporting indicates that traffickers increasingly are engaged in
   “two-way” smuggling—moving cocaine from Latin America to Europe and
                  returning to North America with Ecstasy.

    Beginning in 1999, Brazilian authorities noted indications that MDMA
       was distributed in Sao Paulo, Brazil. Prior to 1999, Brazilian
   authorities seized a total of only 2,300 capsules of Ecstasy in Brazil,
   all of which had been imported. In October 1999, the Brazilian National
    Police (DFP) conducted a controlled delivery, seizing 60 kilograms of
   Ecstasy—the largest quantity seized in Brazil to date—at the Sao Paulo
                           International Airport.

     In August 2000, DFP officials seized 2.6 kilograms of MDMA and the
   first MDMA laboratory in Brazil. The chemicals seized in the laboratory
    had the potential to provide approximately 10,000 capsules. Brazil is
   the largest producer of chemicals in South America, with approximately
    24,500 chemical handlers registered in the country. This availability
   of chemicals may foster the continuation of MDMA processing in Brazil.

   The DEA The Hague Country Office, reports an increase in the number of
      couriers smuggling Ecstasy to locations in Latin America and the
       Caribbean, including Mexico and the Dominican Republic, aboard
   commercial flights originating in Amsterdam and other European cities.
      The historic ties between the Netherlands and current and former
      members of the Dutch realm, Aruba, the Netherlands Antilles, and
      Suriname, are exploited by traffickers, who use the countries as
     transshipment points. The DEA BCO also notes recent investigations
   involving trafficking groups with connections to the Dominican Republic
                                and Suriname.

    The Caribbean’s numerous and established drug transportation groups,
     abundance of couriers, and extensive network of commercial flights
       provide traffickers with easy access to route MDMA through the
    Caribbean to the United States. During 2000, Ecstasy seizures in the
     Caribbean ranged from fewer than 10,000 tablets to more than 50,000
     tablets, including the seizure of 58,632 tablets from an individual
           arriving in Nassau, The Bahamas, from London, England.

      Several seizures of MDMA en route to, or in, Mexico were reported
      during 2000, including an April seizure of approximately 200,000
   tablets seized by Mexican authorities at the Mexico City International
     Airport. The Ecstasy arrived in an air cargo shipment manifested as
    aircraft parts. The shipment was en route to South Carolina from the
    Netherlands. In September 2000, Dutch authorities seized 1.25 million
      tablets of Ecstasy in the Netherlands. The tablets allegedly were
            destined for Mexico and eventually the United States.

   photo - courier using external carry Trafficking Methods

   Trafficking organizations utilize a variety of methods to smuggle
   Ecstasy from the Netherlands and, to a lesser extent, Belgium to
   various parts of the globe. These countries have long-standing
   mercantilist traditions and are known for their role as centers for
   distribution of products throughout Europe and around the world. Their
   sophisticated intermodal transportation systems include access to local
   and international airports, world-renowned seaports, extensive
   railroads, inland waterways, and road transportation companies. These
   transportation services, coupled with express mail and cargo services,
   frequently are exploited by traffickers for moving their illegitimate
   cargo throughout Europe and internationally.

   Commercial Air

   photo - illicit air cargo Commercial air couriers commonly are used for
   transporting Ecstasy to international markets. Although these
   individuals carry relatively small amounts of Ecstasy, travel options
   are ample and flights frequent from Europe’s major international
   airports. Ecstasy frequently is smuggled in carry-on or checked
   baggage, though external body packages also are used. Couriers often
   use customized luggage, designed with hidden compartments such as those
   used for transporting diamonds. To avoid detection by law enforcement
   officials, trafficking organizations employ a variety of people as
   couriers, from young American and European women to male Orthodox Jews.

   The major airports in Europe are the traditional ports of departure for
   couriers. During 1999, for example, INTERPOL reported that more than
   900,000 Ecstasy tablets were seized at, or transited, German airports
   en route to the United States. Further, more than 1 million tablets
   destined for the United States were seized, or transited, Amsterdam’s
   Schiphol Airport and more than 850,000 tablets were seized at Brussels’
   Zaventem Airport. Similar findings were reported for the airports in
   Paris and London where approximately 550,000 and 150,000 tablets were
   seized, respectively.

   As both trafficking organizations and law enforcement become
   increasingly sophisticated, routes are likely to diversify. INTERPOL
   reporting for 1999 noted a movement away from the major European
   airports by international Ecstasy smugglers. Increasingly, couriers are
   using secondary, or less heavily traveled, airports (in the region)
   with flights to the United States, including airports in Switzerland,
   the Czech Republic, and Iceland. During 2000, several Ecstasy seizures
   involving couriers arriving at US ports of entry from Iceland were
   effected. These couriers obtained the Ecstasy and initiated travel in
   the Netherlands.

   Rail and Road

   Within Europe, Ecstasy is smuggled primarily overland in private
   automobiles or commercial vehicles, with the drugs concealed on a
   courier’s body, in luggage or cargo, or secreted within the chassis of
   the vehicle. Car ferries frequently are utilized for smuggling Ecstasy
   into the United Kingdom and Scandinavia. Ecstasy also is smuggled by
   rail. Traffickers exploit both passenger and commercial rail travel for
   distribution to southern Europe.

   Express Mail

   photo - express mail seizures in Europe Express mail parcels have grown
   in popularity as a means for smuggling Ecstasy and other contraband. A
   variety of companies offer express delivery service from Europe to
   locations internationally. Through the use of these express mail
   service companies, traffickers are able to send packages with virtual
   anonymity, using false identification as well as false return-address
   and addressee information. Using these companies also allows
   traffickers to monitor the progress of shipments on the Internet. Any
   unusual delays can be identified quickly by the traffickers, alerting
   them not to pick up or accept packages when they arrive. Although
   express mail is attractive to traffickers for the reasons stated above,
   the capacity of express mail packages limits the quantity of Ecstasy
   sent in each shipment.

   Express mail parcels are among the most popular methods for moving
   Ecstasy from Europe to the United States. Throughout the late 1990s, as
   law enforcement scrutiny of express mail parcels increased in the
   Netherlands, traffickers moved their transportation operations to
   Germany, using express mail service centers located along the
   Netherlands–Germany border. According to the DEA Frankfurt Resident
   Office, during 1999 and 2000, as German law enforcement officials
   targeted the use of express mail services for Ecstasy smuggling,
   traffickers shifted their transportation operations toward France,
   Spain, Switzerland, and other European countries. This trend is likely
   to continue, with traffickers shifting their transportation operations
   further south and east to avoid pressure from law enforcement
   officials.

   Air and Sea Cargo

   As demand for Ecstasy increases around the globe, the volume of Ecstasy
   smuggled to international markets will increase correspondingly. To
   transport larger quantities of Ecstasy, traffickers are likely to use
   air and sea cargo. With Europe’s sophisticated transportation networks
   and access to air and maritime commerce through numerous airports and
   container ports, these methods are likely to become increasingly
   popular in the future.

   In July 2000, the USCS and the DEA in Los Angeles, California, seized
   approximately 2.1 million Ecstasy tablets arriving from France. The
   tablets were smuggled via airfreight.

   In August 2000, Canadian authorities seized 84 kilograms of MDMA
   concealed within a containerized maritime shipment of auto parts. The
   drugs were concealed in a 20-foot container, which originated in
   Belgium. The auto parts were destined for Toronto.

   ABUSE

   According to the European Monitoring Center for Drugs and Drug
   Addiction (EMCDDA) Annual Report on the State of the Drugs Problem in
   the European Union 2000, Ecstasy and amphetamine are the second most
   commonly abused drugs in Western Europe, following cannabis products.
   The EMCDDA estimates that between 1 and 5 percent of individuals, ages
   16 to 34, in Europe have taken Ecstasy and/or amphetamine. This may, in
   part, be a result of the fact that Ecstasy is viewed by many users as a
   “recreational” drug, given the method of consumption, tablet form, and
   the belief that few, if any, harmful side effects result from its use.
   The Ecstasy-user population is expanding beyond the rave scene, with
   MDMA reportedly being sold in schools, at sports events, and at other
   social gatherings in Europe.

   EMCDDA treatment data indicates that Ecstasy, amphetamine, and
   hallucinogens were the main drugs in approximately 1- to 2-percent of
   treatment admissions across Western Europe, while an estimated 65 to 95
   percent were for opiate (primarily heroin) use.^10

   In Central and Eastern Europe, according to the EMCDDA, the popularity
   of all synthetic drugs has grown over the last 4 years, and has become
   an important part of the youth dance culture.

   Law enforcement and treatment officials across the European Continent
   remain concerned about Ecstasy’s popularity and use among young people.
     * In the Netherlands and Belgium, the continued use of MDMA by young
       people remains a problem, with Ecstasy widely available at
       relatively low prices. The Ecstasy problem has potential for
       expansion as young people not only use this drug in association
       with dance clubs or rave parties, but in other venues as well.
     * Law enforcement counterparts in the Nordic countries have expressed
       growing concern regarding the use of Ecstasy. In Denmark, police
       report that MDMA abuse is the fastest growing problem among 15 to
       25 year olds and is allegedly the new drug of choice among Danish
       adolescents.
     * Authorities in the Baltic States are concerned about the increasing
       availability and use of Ecstasy in the region. Estonian
       counterparts report that Ecstasy increasingly is available in the
       larger cities, especially Tallinn, the capital. Ecstasy is
       appealing to young Estonians based on the notion that it is
       “western” and “fashionable.” Latvian authorities identify Ecstasy
       as one of their major drug concerns. Poland allegedly is a source
       for the Ecstasy available in Lithuania, where the drug often is
       considered an essential component of the alternative youth
       subculture.
     * In Germany, Ecstasy is increasingly in demand. According to
       INTERPOL, during 1999, first-time use of Ecstasy in Germany
       increased by 12 percent, while first-time users of all other drugs
       declined. In Austria, counterparts report that Ecstasy has replaced
       heroin as the drug of choice among the younger population.
       Hungarian authorities report that an estimated 150,000 youth use
       Ecstasy. The drug is linked to discotheques and raves. According to
       an April 2000 press report from Hungary, Ecstasy use has increased
       7.5 percent over the last 4 years.
     * Ecstasy, the drug of choice in Switzerland for a number of years,
       is used primarily by young people at rave parties. According to the
       DEA Bern Country Office, Ecstasy normally is consumed in cocktails
       with cocaine and alcohol.
     * Ecstasy is available widely in France, both at rave parties and at
       nightclubs. It is not confined to large metropolitan areas, but
       increasingly is found in smaller towns and rural areas.
     * Ecstasy is widely available in the United Kingdom, though largely
       associated with the dance club scene. According to British
       authorities, the United Kingdom is the largest market in the EU for
       the consumption of synthetic drugs, particularly amphetamine and
       Ecstasy, with estimated consumption of over 50 million MDMA tablets
       annually. British youth remain the primary consumers of Ecstasy and
       other synthetic drugs. However, British police speculate that young
       adults may be turning away from Ecstasy and reverting to marijuana
       as their preferred drug of choice due to Ecstasy’s negative
       publicity.
     * The use of Ecstasy has become an accepted part of the discotheque
       and nightclub lifestyle in the larger metropolitan areas of Spain
       and Portugal. MDMA also is sold in discotheques in Italy, where,
       according to the United National Inter-Regional Crime and Justice
       Research Institute study on European police activity and drug
       abuse, there are from 10,000 to 20,000 consumers of Ecstasy. One
       Ecstasy-related fatality was reported in Italy during 1999 and one
       in 2000.
     * Slovak authorities have special concerns regarding the increasing
       availability and use of Ecstasy, especially among young people in
       economically disadvantaged parts of the Slovak Republic. In
       Bulgaria, Ecstasy is an increasing problem among university
       students. Synthetic drugs, including Ecstasy, are increasing in
       popularity within the rave and nightclub scene in Romania.
       According to the chief of Romania’s Anti-Drug Division of the
       National Police, the consumption of Ecstasy produced in the
       Netherlands and Poland is increasing.
     * Authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Former Yugoslav Republic
       of Macedonia, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia all report
       concern over the rise in use and availability of Ecstasy.
     * Croatian authorities report that Ecstasy is one of the primary
       drugs of abuse, with use on the rise. Slovenian authorities report
       an increase in overall drug consumption, especially Ecstasy and
       heroin. The market for hallucinogens, such as Ecstasy, smuggled
       into Slovenia from the Netherlands, reportedly is increasing.
     * In Moldova, synthetic drugs, such as Ecstasy, are available and
       relatively inexpensive, making them popular with young people. In
       Ukraine, Ecstasy is popular and found in expensive nightclubs and
       casinos. It is, however, reportedly too expensive for average
       Ukrainians.

   SEIZURES

   According to INTERPOL, Ecstasy seizures in Europe increased
   dramatically over the past decade. In fact, European Ecstasy seizures
   during 1999 (14.1 million tablets) nearly tripled the 1998 total (5
   million tablets) and the trend continued during the first half of 2000,
   with more than 8.4 million tablets seized. This trend was mirrored on a
   global scale with INTERPOL reporting global Ecstasy seizures during
   1999 at approximately 22 million tablets, compared to 5.6 million
   tablets in 1998.

   INTERPOL reporting indicated that at least 1.6 million of the Ecstasy
   tablets seized in Europe during 1999 ultimately were destined for the
   United States. An additional 1 million tablets that were seized in
   Europe were destined for other consumer markets around the world.
     * During 1999, Dutch law enforcement reported the seizure of
       3,660,496 tablets of Ecstasy. With several significant seizures
       thus far in 2000, seizure statistics for the year will exceed 1999
       totals. On July 23, 2000, Dutch authorities seized approximately
       510,000 Ecstasy tablets^11 from two sea containers in Hoofdorp, the
       Netherlands. In addition to the Ecstasy, authorities seized 330
       kilograms of amphetamine tablets, 6,500 kilograms of cutting
       powder, and an advanced tableting machine. On September 6, 2000,
       Dutch counterparts seized 1.25 million Ecstasy tablets in a garage
       in Almere, Netherlands.
     * In Belgium, 1999 seizures far exceeded 1998 totals, with Belgian
       authorities reporting the seizure of 584,650 tablets in 1999
       compared to 171,000 in 1998. In May 2000, Belgian authorities
       discovered an Ecstasy tableting site, seizing 450,000 tablets as
       well as a sophisticated tableting machine and numerous logo
       punches. As of May 2000, this seizure constituted a record for
       Belgium. During 2000, the DEA BCO conducted several successful
       international controlled deliveries resulting in the arrest of
       numerous individuals and the seizure 50,000 Ecstasy tablets in
       January, 12,000 tablets in May, and 20,000 tablets in June.
     * In Luxembourg, 1999 seizures totaled 1,400 tablets compared to 145
       in 1998. In December 1999, authorities in Los Angeles, California,
       seized 32 kilograms (96,000 tablets)^12 of Ecstasy. This shipment
       had originated in Luxembourg and was the first documented shipment
       of Ecstasy from Luxembourg to the United States.
     * Between January and September 2000, Swedish authorities seized
       135,000 Ecstasy tablets. The most significant seizure was made in
       February 2000, when Swedish authorities arrested four individuals
       and seized 100,000 MDMA tablets from a Dutch-registered truck in
       the city of Gothenburg. Norwegian authorities continue to seize
       increasing amounts of Ecstasy. During 1999, authorities seized
       4,667 Ecstasy tablets. Over the first 8 months of 2000, Norwegian
       authorities seized 24,504 tablets of Ecstasy.
     * During 1999, German authorities seized 1,470,507 Ecstasy tablets.
       According to the Bundeskriminalamt (BKA), during the first 6 months
       of 2000, several large seizures contributed to the more than
       719,282 tablets of Ecstasy seized. Many of these large seizures
       were shipments transiting Germany en route to the United States.
     * During the first 6 months of 2000, Spanish authorities and the DEA
       Madrid Country Office conducted several successful Ecstasy
       investigations, resulting in the seizure of 169,200 MDMA pills. In
       February 2000, the Spanish National Police Airport Unit seized
       approximately 120,000 pills of MDMA in Madrid, Spain. The MDMA was
       found in the possession of four individuals attempting to board a
       U.S.-bound flight for Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, with final
       destination of Miami, Florida.
     * According to Italian authorities, Ecstasy seizures were first made
       in Italy in 1993. During that year, Italian authorities seized
       41,719 tablets. Seizures have increased annually, totaling
       approximately 286,239 for 1999. Statistics for 2000 have already
       exceeded the 1999 total. Italian authorities have successfully
       executed several large Ecstasy seizures. On April 24, 2000, the
       Italian National Police in Udine, Italy, seized 333,000 tablets of
       Ecstasy, which had originated in Amsterdam, Netherlands. The
       tablets were destined for Los Angeles, California. On June 20,
       2000, the Italian National Police seized 80,000 Ecstasy tablets
       from an organization operating in the vicinity of Rome.
     * Greek authorities concluded a significant Ecstasy case during
       September 2000, seizing approximately 52,290 Ecstasy tablets from
       two European traffickers.
     * According to INTERPOL, Ecstasy seizures in the United Kingdom rose
       exponentially from 304,477 tablets seized in 1998 to 3,993,537
       tablets seized in 1999. Within the Ecstasy class of drugs, MDMA,
       MDEA, MDA, and MBDB were the primary drugs seized. MDMA and
       analogue seizures had been decreasing over the last few years, but
       a dramatic upsurge in seizures has been noted since October 1999.
     * During 1999, Romanian authorities seized 10,546 tablets of Ecstasy,
       an increase from 1998 when 4,203 tablets were seized. Statistics
       for 2000 are likely to exceed the 1999 totals, given the seizure of
       10,115 tablets of Ecstasy during February 2000. The tablets were
       concealed in a package of clothing that was shipped from Hamburg,
       Germany. The Ecstasy is believed to have originated in the
       Netherlands.

   LAW ENFORCEMENT INITIATIVES

   The production, trafficking, and abuse of Ecstasy is a growing problem
   throughout Europe and internationally. Over the course of the 1990s,
   government health and law enforcement officials have developed and
   engaged in public information and enforcement campaigns aimed at
   countering the Ecstasy threat. Increasingly, governments and law
   enforcement entities are turning their attention to cooperative efforts
   to combat Ecstasy.

   On the European Union-level during 1995, EUROPOL initiated the LOGO
   PROJECT, a data collection effort aimed at identifying and cataloging
   various Ecstasy logos and seizure-related information for investigative
   purposes. More than 500 logos were identified in the 2000 edition of
   the Synthetic Drugs Catalogue.

   According to the EMCDDA, as synthetic drug use continues to spread
   beyond large dance events to geographically diverse clubs, bars, and
   private parties, public information campaigns will be the most common
   prevention measure, followed by on-the-spot counseling, outreach work,
   and crisis intervention.

   At the European Union Member State-level, both public information
   antidrug campaigns and law enforcement initiatives have been designed
   to target the production, trafficking, and abuse of Ecstasy in Europe.

   The Government of the Netherlands has taken steps to combat Ecstasy
   through the establishment of national interagency teams of
   investigators, such as the USD, targeting MDMA production and
   distribution organizations. In addition, in February 2000, the Dutch
   Ministry of Health launched a new drug prevention campaign. The program
   targets high school students, and is designed to combat the increasing
   use of Ecstasy and amphetamine by young people in discotheques and
   other clubs.

   Germany gives high priority to counterdrug law enforcement. German
   authorities positioned themselves early on to combat Ecstasy smuggling
   in, and through, Germany, devoting significant resources to the task.
   German law enforcement agencies remain efficient and effective. Demand
   reduction programs are active on both the federal and state levels in
   Germany. Antidrug information campaigns targeting parents have been
   initiated, as have initiatives for school children.

   Following an Ecstasy-related death in 1999, the Government of Italy
   initiated steps toward legislative reform that addressed a variety of
   amphetamine analogues. Italian authorities also increased enforcement
   activities at discotheques and clubs. In addition, antidrug public
   information campaigns targeting all drugs continue to play a central
   role in the Italian counterdrug strategy.

                     photo - different tablet logos LOGOS

     Producers and traffickers of MDMA seek to differentiate their product
    from others by imprinting the tablets with “brand” logos or symbols.
       The logos are generally popular images, such as smiley faces and
        cartoon characters, or brand names, such as “Rolls Royce” and
    “Mitsubishi.” These recognizable logos contribute to the notion that
       Ecstasy is a relatively harmless drug. During 1999, the Dutch USD
                   seized Ecstasy with 128 different logos.

   One of the more popular logos, “Mitsubishi,” has been seized throughout
    Europe and internationally. According to EUROPOL, more than 6.5 million
      tablets bearing the “Mitsubishi” logo have been seized since the
    organization began collecting logo data. When one “brand” of Ecstasy
    develops a reputation of quality, other MDMA producers will utilize the
    same logo-punch in order to gain market-share. This does not, however,
       ensure that the chemical composition or active ingredients of the
    tablets are the same. “Regular customers” who place large orders are
      reportedly able to special order Ecstasy from the producers and can
                  request customized logos for their tablets.

   OUTLOOK
     * The demand for Ecstasy does not appear to be diminishing. In the
       near term, production and trafficking are likely to remain constant
       or increase to meet the growing international demand.
     * In Western Europe, Ecstasy use is moving beyond the confines of the
       rave and nightclub scenes, and is affecting an increasingly broad
       cross-section of society. This trend is likely to continue in the
       near term.
     * In Eastern Europe, Ecstasy production, trafficking, and abuse will
       likely expand in the future, increasing supply and decreasing
       prices in the region.
     * Increased international cooperation regarding international control
       of Ecstasy precursor chemicals may, in the long term, decrease
       Ecstasy production.
   __________________________________________________________________

   ^1The most recent annual statistics available are utilized throughout
   this report.

   ^2This increase in demand over the course of the 1990s is mirrored in
   the United States and other countries, paralleling the rave phenomenon,
   and is likely to continue to expand beyond the rave and nightclub scene
   as additional producers enter the market, increasing supply and
   lowering prices.

   ^3For the purposes of this report the terms Ecstasy and MDMA will be
   used interchangeably. In addition, to remain consistent with INTERPOL
   reporting, Ecstasy will refer to MDMA and other amphetamine analogues.

   ^4According to the Dutch Unit Synthetic Drugs (USD), 1 kilogram of MDMA
   powder can be made into approximately 12,500 MDMA tablets. Using this
   conversion formula, the USD estimates that the 300 kilograms of MDMA
   powder seized was sufficient to produce approximately 3,750,000
   tablets.

   ^5Limburg Provinces exist in the southern Netherlands and northern
   Belgium.

   ^6According to the DEA Brussels Country Office (BCO), Belgian
   authorities seized 450,000 Ecstasy tablets at one of the sites. In
   addition, 19 logo punches and one tableting machine (manufactured in
   India) were confiscated. As of May 2000, this seizure represented the
   largest Ecstasy seizure in Belgium. A second site discovered by Belgian
   authorities resulted in the seizure of 20,000 Ecstasy tablets, a
   tableting machine, vacuum-sealing equipment, and precursor chemicals.

   ^7Signatories to the Schengen Agreement permit the unfettered movement
   of goods, services, labor, and capital within the Schengen area which
   is composed of Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany,
   Greece, Iceland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal,
   Spain, and Sweden.

   ^8Law enforcement initiatives targeting Israeli Ecstasy trafficking
   groups will likely be aided in the future by new money laundering
   legislation passed by the Government of Israel on August 8, 2000. This
   legislation criminalizes money laundering, creates procedures for
   criminal and civil forfeiture of the proceeds of money laundering,
   introduces reporting of the transfers of currency into and out of
   Israel, and authorizes the issuance of regulations requiring the
   reporting of irregular transactions by Israeli financial institutions.
   According to the US Department of State, Israel is in the process of
   establishing a money laundering authority to coordinate information and
   activities with Israeli police, customs, banks, and all other relevant
   entities.

   ^9This calculation was determined using the INTERPOL conversion factor:
   1 kilogram of Ecstasy tablets by weight equals 3,000 tablets.

   ^10Information contained in the EMCDDA Annual Report on the State of
   the Drugs Problem in the European Union 2000.

   ^11This calculation was made using the INTERPOL conversion factor of 1
   kilogram of Ecstasy tablets by weight equals 3,000 tablets. Dutch
   authorities reported the seizure as 170 kilograms of Ecstasy.

   ^12This calculation was made using the INTERPOL conversion factor of 1
   kilogram of Ecstasy tablets by weight equals 3,000 tablets.

     __________________________________________________________________

        Site Directory What's New Contact Us Return Home Publications
     __________________________________________________________________
