http://www.senate.ca.gov/~newsen/whatsnew.htp

   [space.gif] [USEMAP:title1.jpg]


                                 What's New!
                               Updated 1/3/02

     * Map of New Senate Districts

     * Map of New Congressional Districts

                      Senate Leadership Communications
              Recent Senator Press Releases and Other Postings
                          Senate Committee Postings
                        Senate Office/Caucus Postings
                     New Features on the Senate Web Site

   Senate Reapportionment -- Every ten years, after the national census,
   California is required to redraw the political boundary lines for the
   State Legislature, the State Board of Equalization and California
   Congressional districts. This web page will provide information on the
   Senate's redistricting process, hearing schedule and links to other
   reapportionment Internet sites.

   SENATE LEADERSHIP COMMUNICATIONS

   Daily Briefings - a daily summary of the news from a variety of
   newspapers, published by the Senate Republican Caucus.

     RECENT SENATOR PRESS RELEASES AND OTHER POSTINGS
   To review recent Senator Press Releases and other Postings:
     * For Democratic Senate Members Go to http://democrats.sen.ca.gov

     * For Republican Senate Members Go to http://republican.sen.ca.gov.

     SENATE COMMITTEE POSTINGS
   Senate Appropriations Committee publishes an authors' agenda and 28.8
   list before each committee hearing.

   Senate Budget and Fiscal Review Committee produces a range of
   information related to the annual state budget process. Agendas for
   Committee Forums on Local Government Finance [11-FEB-2000]

   The Senate Health and Human Services Committee has published Some Ideas
   on Implementing a School-Based Healthy Families Program (12-NOV-98).

   The Senate Public Safety Committee has published a summary of all
   public safety bills sent to the Governor in 2001 [14-DEC-2001] and
   Joint Informational Hearing on the CA Youth Authority 5/16/00.

   The Senate Revenue and Taxation Committee publishes a list of tax bills
   moving through the Legislature. Latest Update: Final update on tax bill
   list for 2000 [ 3-OCT-2000] .

   The Senate Subcommittee on Aging and Long-Term Care publishes ten
   Senior Fact Sheets which provide up-to-date information about the
   various programs and benefits available to seniors (SSI, Medicare,
   Medi-Cal, IHSS, Food Stamps, etc). Newest Report: 2001-02 Legislation
   of Interest to Older Californians

   The Senate Select Committee on Mobile and Manufactured Homes provides
   information about mobilehome legislation, law, and publications.

   SENATE OFFICE/CAUCUS POSTINGS
   Senate Office of Research publishes research reports on a variety of
   topics and maintains PICO (Policy Information Clearinghouse On-Line) -
   a one-stop source of information on some of the major policy issues
   facing California and the Legislature.

   Office of Senate Floor Analysis just published the 1999 DIGEST OF
   SIGNIFICANT LEGISLATION, which summarizes and categorizes each and
   every piece of legislation that came before the Legislature in 1999.

   Senate Television publishes its weekly televising schedule and provides
   a list of the cable operators that carry the legislative programming.

   Senate Publications makes available to the public Senate Committee
   reports, Senate Office of Research Studies, transcripts of selected
   Senate Committee hearings, and other Senate publications.

   Senate Advisory Commission on Cost Control in State Government
   publishes its reports and activities.

   California Senate Fellows (formerly the Senate Associates Program)
   offers college graduates a paid, full-time legislative staff experience
   for eleven months in the State Capitol.

   California Legislature Internet Caucus
   The 28-member California Legislature Internet Caucus (CLIC) is a
   bipartisan, bicameral partnership created by Members of the Legislature
   to serve as a resource for vision, information, education, and advocacy
   on issues pertaining to the Internet and our future. The CLIC webpage
   provides summaries of pending legislation on Internet issues, and will
   soon feature a list of Internet policy-related links to other sites.

NEW FEATURES ON THE SENATE WEB SITE
Listen to the Senate! You can now listen to live Senate Hearings and Floor
Sessions over the Internet using Real Audio.

   Senators' E-Mail Addresses: Senators have the option of establishing an
   email address. Those that have, follow this format:
   senator.lastname@sen.ca.gov


   [space.gif]


   Home Senators Legislation Committees Schedules Offices/Caucuses
   Audio/TV Faqs/Links

      Please send any questions or comments about this site to
   WebMaster@sen.ca.gov
