http://lcluc.gsfc.nasa.gov/products/pdfs/GOFC/GOFC-LaPorte2000.pdf

   An Integrated Forest Monitoring System An Integrated Forest Monitoring
   System An Integrated Forest Monitoring System An Integrated Forest
   Monitoring System for Central Africa for Central Africa for Central
   Africa for Central Africa Nadine Laporte, Dept Geog, Nadine Laporte,
   Dept Geog, Nadine Laporte, Dept Geog, UMD UMD Nadine Laporte, Dept
   Geog, UMD UMD Cameroon C. African Rep. Eq. Guinea R.Congo Gabon D.
   R.Congo LCLUC LCLUC LCLUC LCLUC----Science Science Science Team Meeting
   Team Meeting Science Team Meeting on GOFC and on GOFC and Team Meeting
   on GOFC and Di Di on GOFC and Disturban sturban Disturban sturbance ce
   ce ce20202020----22 Sept 2000, Rockvi 22 Sept 2000, Rockvi 22 Sept
   2000, Rockville lle 22 Sept 2000, Rockville, MD , MD lle, MD , MD
   Partners An interdisciplinary team: ! Nadine Laporte (UMD) - P. I.,
   Manager, Land cover classification ! Guoquing Sun (UMD/NASA)- Radar
   biomass assessment ! Jacqueline Lemoigne (NASA)/ Miro Honzack (UMD)-
   Fusion methods ! Ralph Dubayah (UMD) - VCL biomass estimation !
   Philippe Mayaux (TREES/JRC, Italy) - Regional radar land cover mapping
   ! Lee White (WCS) - Field data collection & validation ! Mike Fay (WCS)
   - Aerial digital video acquisition & validation Collaborators: ! CARPE
   and GOFC networks (Univ. Kinshasa DRC, in-country Forest Services, WWF
   Minkebe Project, etc.) ! WCS/MIKE project (John Hart and René Breyer) !
   CIRAD-Forêt France (Michelle Pain Orcet) ! Zoological Society of
   Milwaukee (Gay Reinartz). ! Jim Tilton (NASA) - Land cover
   classification algorithms Objectives ! Develop methods to map Central
   Africa forest types, and biomass using a multi-sensor multi- scale
   approach (AVHRR, MODIS, JERS, ERS) ! Develop validation protocols for
   regional land cover products (Field, Video, Ikonos, Landsat) !
   Reinforce collaboration between National Forest Services, ecologists
   and conservationists to develop an operational forest monitoring system
   Science Implications ! Better characterisation of tropical forest land
   surfaces and processes ! Multi-scale multi-sensor data integration
   methods and appropriate validation tools ! Integrate central African
   research scentists in regional sciences activities (e.g. GOFC) Study
   sites Primary sites: Lopé - Ndoki - South Cameroon Secondary sites:
   Salonga, Okapi, Gamba, Mbaiki S.Cameroon Mbaiki Ndoki Okapi Lopé
   Salonga Gamba Remotely sensed image data - Landsat ETM+ - IKONOS -
   Aerial Digital Videos - MODIS 1km, 500 m - SPOT vegetation - JERS1,
   ERS, SIR-C - SAR 6m Field data acquisition and collection of existing
   data for GIS integration 2.0 1.8 1.6 1.4 1.2 1.0 0.8 0.6 "Fo 0.4 0.2
   0.0 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 10- 30- 40- 50- 60- 70- 80- 100+ 90-
   Growth rates Okoumé Lopé site, July 2000 Field Work Challenges ! Land
   cover mapping ! Integration of multi-resolution multi-sensor
   information (radar-optical) UMD/NASA ! Fusion and classification using
   a neural network ! Data fusion using a wavelet approach !
   Classification using segmentation techniques ! Integration of
   multi-resolution multi-sensor radar (JRC) ! Classification of JERS-ERS
   central Africa mosaics Fusion of AVHRR and JERS Wavelet-Based Fusion
   High High -R -R esolu esolu ttion ion ... D D aata (e.g., ta (e.g., SA
   SA R R )) Low- Low- R R eess Data Data (e.g., (e.g., M M O O DIS) DIS)
   D Deeccoomp mpos osit ition ion Fused Fused ... Data Data Impr Improve
   oved d Recon Reconsstr truc uctio tionn Re Resol soluuti tion on
   Biomass assessment & mapping ! Phase 1: ! Develop direct and indirect
   methods of biomass assessment at site level for South Cameroon and Lopé
   (Gabon) ! Phase 2 ! Test applicability of methods derived from sites to
   improve regional level estimates ! Phase 3: ! Test the use of VCL data
   to improve biomass estimation at the site and region scales Biomass
   estimation at field sites Landsat ETM+ Landsat ETM+ Plot 29 - Total
   biomass 86 Mg/ha Plot 21 - Total biomass 60 Mg/ha Mixed forest Swamp
   forest Far from capital Short distance from capital Validation ! Site
   level ! Local collaborators ! Existing data and limited new field
   measurements ! Region ! Aerial videos (WCS / Mike Fay) ! MIKE network
   (Hart, Beyers, Walsh) ! Salonga survey (MZS) ! Okapi (Hart) Aerial
   Video Analysis for LC validation Expected Results ! Better
   characterisation of tropical forest land surfaces and processes ! New
   regional and local land cover maps supporting research activities,
   in-country Forest Services and conservation efforts ! Biomass maps at
   site and regional levels ! Better characterisation of forest-savanna
   interfaces ! Standardised field validation data sets for regional land
   cover maps Expected Results ! Network of forest managers, ecologists
   and remote sensing specialists ! Facilitate exchange and distribution
   of satellite RS products in the region (WWW & CDs) ! Increased
   participation of Central African scientists in GOFC and NASA/LCLUC
   goals (e.g. Forest monitoring, carbon, etc.) Share image data,
   methodology and products with in-country collaborators Forest (drained
   soild) Forest (inondated) Gilbertiodendron 1 Gilbertiodendron 2
   Agriculture Water Clouds TM - Salonga- 550 sqm Classification provided
   to field crew (C.C. 4,5,7) Participation in the organization of a
   CARPE-GOFC regional forest monitoring workshop LOPE Workshop 4 July- 20
   July 2000 Integrated Forest Monitoring * Distribution of final products
   to national forest services and conservation organizations * FM
   activities follow up & mentoring through C ARPE and GOFC network
   (Training) * Convene a Regional workshop on Forest Monitoring with
   local and international players (Development of Research Agenda)
