http://www.calcarenet.ca.gov/mental_health_care_facs.asp


      Welcome to California California Home To see today's date, please
                                               enable JavaScript....


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                   California Care Network Home
                   Residential Care
                   Medical Care
                   Mental Health Care
                   Alcohol & Drug Treatment Services
                   In-Home Health / Medical Care Services
                   Adult Day Service Centers
                   Home and Community Services
                   Search for a Facility
                   Checklists and Guides
                   Links



   California Care Network




   Mental Health Care Facilities

   The California Department of Mental Health licenses facilities or
   certifies programs engaged in the provision of care to individuals with
   major mental disorders. The Department of Mental Health licenses
   Psychiatric Health Facilities and Mental Health Rehabilitation Centers
   and certifies the mental health programs of Community Residential
   Treatment Systems and Special Treatment Programs in Skilled Nursing
   Facilities.

   Descriptions of Mental Health Care Facilities

      Community Residential Treatment System (CRTS)
   Facility Search

   Community Residential Treatment Systems provide a social rehabilitation
   program in a residential setting. CRTS offer programs that assist the
   client with self help and social skills, behavior adjustment,
   interpersonal relationships and vocational preparation.

   Mental Health Rehabilitation Center (MHRC)
   Facility Search

   Mental health rehabilitation centers provide intensive support and
   rehabilitation to clients as an alternative to state hospital or other
   24-hour care facilities. MHRCs help clients develop the skills to
   become self sufficient and capable of increasing levels of independent
   functioning.

   Psychiatric Health Facility (PHF)
   Facility Search

   Psychiatric health facilities provide acute psychiatric inpatient care
   for patients who cannot be appropriately treated at any other lower
   level of care. These facilities were established in 1978 as a low cost,
   high quality alternative to acute hospitalization in a general acute
   care hospital or freestanding psychiatric hospital.

   Special Treatment Program (STP)
   Facility Search

   Special Treatment Programs, as certified by the Department of Mental
   Health, exist within skilled nursing facilities for the benefit of
   chronically and persistently mentally ill patients who require 24-hour
   supervision and care. Special treatment programs provide mental health
   treatment, instruction on personal care and medication management and
   the use of community and personal resources.

                             Back to Top of Page
    © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
