http://www.ne.nrcs.usda.gov/nrd/lower_platte_north_nrd.asp

   Lower Platte North NRD

   Home NE Photo Gallery Hot Topics and News Directory N R D ' s RC&D
   Helpful Links Technical Resources Programs and Services Career
   Opportunities Volunteer

Lower Platte North NRD image      LOWER PLATTE NORTH NRD

   Office Information

   Bradley D. Soncksen
   District Conservationist
                           611 Commercial Park Road, S
                           Wahoo, NE 68066-5521
                                                      Phone: (402) 443-3463
                                                      Fax: (402) 443-3005

     Directory for Lower Platte North NRD

     District Conservationist Biographical Sketch

     Resource Needs and Concerns

     Priorities Addressed by NRCS

     Primary Programs and Services

     Lower Platte North NRD homepage
   District Conservationist Biographical Sketch
   [brad-sonckson.gif]
   Bradley D. Soncksen
   District Conservationist
   Lower Platte North NRD

     1979 -- Graduate of Hayes County, NE High School.

     1983 -- Bachelor of Science in Agronomy and Mechanize Agriculture,
   University of Nebraska-Lincoln.
   Became Soil Conservationist with USDA Soil Conservation Service in
   1984. Stationed at McCook, Lincoln, Wahoo, and Syracuse, Nebraska. In
   1987, became Liaison District Conservationist/District Conservationist
   and stationed at David City and Wahoo, Nebraska.
   Resource Needs and Concerns
   The Lower Platte North covers 5 counties in East Central Nebraska
   including Platte, Colfax, Dodge, Butler, and Saunders. The district
   includes parts of the following five Natural Resource Districts:
    1. Lower Platte North
    2. Lower Platte South
    3. Lower Elkhorn
    4. Lower Loup
    5. Central Platte

   The population of the district is approximately 90,000, divided almost
   equally between rural and urban residents. The largest communities in
   the district are:
     * Columbus
     * Fremont
     * Wahoo
     * Schuyler
     * David City
     * North Bend
     * Valparaiso
     * Ceresco
     * Ashland

   The land use in the district is divided as follows:
     * Dry Cropland, 1,200,000 acres
     * Irrigated Cropland, 485,000 acres
     * Pasture, 190,000 acres
     * Rangeland, 27,000 acres
     * Forest, 32,000 acres
     * Urban, 32,000 acres
     * Other rural land, 53,000 acres
     * Water, 27,500 acres

   Primary resource concerns within the NRD include the following in
   priority order:
    1. Soil Resources
       -- Cropland erosion control
       -- Improve soil health
    2. Water Resources
       -- Prevent contamination of groundwater supplies
       -- Reduce chemical and sediment loading on surface water
       -- Irrigation water management
       -- Flood control
    3. Grazing lands
       -- Improve range condition
       -- Implement waste management systems
    4. Wetlands
       -- Protect, restore, and enhance
    5. Fish and Wildlife Habitat
       -- Increase size and diversity of habitat areas
       -- Reduce turbidity and chemical levels in surface water

   Priorities Addressed by NRCS
   The priorities are listed in order from one to five in the previous
   section. However, programs are ongoing to address parts of all
   concerns. The NRCS plays a major role in reducing cropland erosion
   through the planning, layout, and design of terraces, diversions,
   waterways, filter strips, sediment and erosion control structures,
   dams, and many other practices. The water resources concerns are
   addressed by reducing sedimentation into lakes and streams with the
   application of conservation practices and Irrigation Water Management
   planning. The grazing lands are addressed through technical assistance
   with livestock producers to plan and apply grazing systems. The
   wetlands and wildlife concerns are addressed by NRCS through
   conservation compliance activities and implementing Federal programs
   such as WHIP, CRP, and EQIP.
   Primary Programs and Services
   The NRCS cooperates with all six of the NRD's to implement a strong
   NSWCP, NRD and Environmental Trust funded program to apply conservation
   practices to cropland within the district. Over $400,000 of cost share
   is provided to producers on an annual basis to install over 800,000
   feet of terraces with pipe and grass outlets as well as approximately
   20 erosion control dams, 50 sediment basins, and other practices such
   as filter strips.
   One EQIP priority area, Wahoo Creek, has been approved and applications
   for other areas have been submitted. The CRP program is popular with
   over 600 active contracts in five counties. This district leads to the
   State in WRP activity to restore and preserve wetlands, most notable is
   the recently completed "Wilkensen Wildlife Management Area" in Platte
   county. This area was restored using WRP funds in combination with
   other private, state, and local government funds to restore 640 acres
   of wetlands. The WHIP program is also used to restore wildlife habitat.


   [blue_bar.gif]
   Partner Links: NRCS | USDA | NACD | FSA | RD | FS | CSREES
   [blue_bar.gif]

   United States Department of Agriculture
   Natural Resources Conservation Service
   Nebraska State Office
   100 Centennial Mall North, Room 152
   Lincoln, NE 68508
   Webmaster
