http://www.bernie.house.gov/childcare/index.asp

     [bernie_01.gif] Children Playing with Blocks Children Playing with
      Blocks Children Playing with Blocks Children Playing with Blocks
     Children Playing with Blocks Children Playing with Blocks Children
              Playing with Blocks Children Playing with Blocks
   Congressman Bernie Sanders Congressman Bernie Sanders' Child Care site
   Congressman Bernie Sanders' Child Care site Congressman Bernie Sanders'
   Child Care site Congressman Bernie Sanders' Child Care site Congressman
   Bernie Sanders' Child Care site Congressman Bernie Sanders' Child Care
              site Congressman Bernie Sanders' Child Care site
                         >> Start the Conversation
                         >> Legislation & Documents
                         >>   Get on the Soapbox
                         >>    Child Care Caucus
                         >>     Reports & Links
                         >>    Child Care Front

                     The State of Child Care in America

      Children Playing with Blocks Everyday in this country, 13 million
      children under age six are cared for by someone other than their
    parents, in a child care center or by a family care provider. In the
    United States today, 70% of women with children under age six are in
       the workforce. In 1969, only 23% of women in this category were
                       participating in the workforce.

       Children Playing with Blocks While our economy has undergone an
    historic change regarding the role of women in the workforce, we have
   done little to respond to the fact that most two-parent families can no
   longer afford to stay at home with their children. These same families,
   however, struggle to find and pay for quality child care. Families who
      can afford quality child care, pay an average of $5,500 per child
    annually, and up to $10,000, for such care. In 49 states, the average
    cost of child care is higher than the cost of public college tuition.

      Children Playing with Blocks Child care providers themselves are
     grossly underpaid and most lack health and pension benefits. In an
     effort to keep parent fees as low as possible, 31 states require no
         training in early childhood care and education and few have
   comprehensive health and safety regulations. As a result, many low- and
    middle-income families have no choice but to place their children in
                    lower cost, often lower quality care.

   Children Playing with Blocks To raise awareness of the crisis in child
    care, Bernie joined with several of his colleagues in March, 2001 to
      form the bipartisan Congressional Child Care Caucus. The Caucus'
     mission is to generate Congressional and national awareness of the
     crisis in child care and to create support for a non-partisan child
    care agenda which will ensure access to quality and affordable child
                       care for all American children.
                   printable version | recommend this page
