http://search.ed.gov/help/

          sealbullet.gif (1661 bytes) U.S. Department of Education

    Help with Search


arrow.gif


         Quick Searching Tips and Examples

            Searching is easy. Just type in a few words or phrases. Try to use
            discriminating terms that are likely to be found only in the documents
            you seek. The more words you give, the better results you'll get. For
            more detail on how to get started, please see How to Search. Here are
            some examples:

         Search by typing words and phrases.

              talented teachers classroom

            The search engine will find documents containing as many of these words
            and phrases as possible ranked so that the documents most relevant to
            your query are presented first.

         Identify phrases with quotation marks.

              "financial aid", "student loans"

            A phrase is entered using double quotation marks, allowing the user to
            find words which are adjacent to each other. Each phrase or proper name
            should be separated with a comma.

         Use UPPERcase to indicate exact match.

            The search engine automatically treats adjacent capitalized words as a
            single phrase.  Below is an example:

              Reading Report Card

            Search terms in lowercase will match words in any case; otherwise, an
            exact case match is used. For example, oeri will find matches for Oeri,
            oeri, and oeRI; whereas, a query for OERI will only match OERI.


   line.gif

   Searching


   arrow.gif Quick Tips and Examples
             How to Search
             Refining a Search
             Quick Reference to Search
             Quick Reference to Syntax
             Requiring or Excluding Terms
             Metadata
             Advanced Search
             Return to Search (Graphic)
             Return to Search (Text Only)




   [Go to ED Home]   This page last modified on 11 June 1999 (bdg)
