http://triana.gsfc.nasa.gov/home/faq.htm

   navigation bar image               triana logo
   Triana Title image FAQ title image


   What is Triana?

   Triana is a mission dedicated to helping scientists construct more
   accurate models of Earth's climate and answering a key Earth Science
   question-- how solar radiation affects climate.

   With a scheduled launch date of October 2001, Triana will be the first
   Earth observing mission to provide a continuous, full disk view of the
   sun-lit Earth from 1.5 million kilometers (one million miles). This
   unique set of observations promises to offer new insights into how our
   planet's climate works as an integrated system. It has tremendous
   potential to aid in our understanding of the total Earth system and the
   effects of natural and human-induced changes on the global environment.

   What is Triana named after?

   Triana is named after Rodrigo de Triana, the lookout who first saw the
   New World from Columbus' ship.

   What scientific instruments will fly on Triana?

   Triana will carry three scientific instruments: the Scripps National
   Institute of Standards & Technology Absolute Radiometer
   (Scripps-NISTAR), the Scripps Earth Polychromatic Imaging Camera
   (Scripps-EPIC), and the Plasma Magnetometer Solar Weather Instrument
   (PlasMag).

   Scripps-NISTAR is a high accuracy set of three cavity radiometers that
   will measure the Earth's energy balance (the reflected solar radiation
   and the energy emitted into space by the Earth).

   Scripps-EPIC is a ten channel imaging spectroradiometer that will
   measure the atmospheric ozone and aerosols, land and ocean surface
   changes, and cloud characteristics.

   The following table provides information on Scripps-EPIC's ten
   channels:

   Wavelengths

              Bandwidth

                       Purpose

                                       Spatial resolution

   nm

              nm


                                       km

   317.5

              1

                       Ozone

                                       8

   325

              1

                       Ozone, SO[2]

                                       8

   340

              5

                       Aerosols

                                       8

   388

              5

                       Aerosols, Clouds

                                       8

   393.5

              1

                       Cloud Height

                                       8

   443

              10

                       Blue, Aerosols

                                       8

   551

              10

                       Green, Aerosols

                                       8

   645

              10

                       Red, Aerosols

                                       8

   869.5

              15

                       Clouds

                                       8

   905

              15

                       Water vapor

                                       8

   Plasma-Mag instrument is a magnetometer, Faraday Cup, and an Electron
   Spectrometer that will measure solar wind and magnetic field
   characteristics. In addition, it will provide early warning for
   solar-event storms that could damage satellites and electrical
   equipment on Earth.

   What is the scientific value of Triana?

   Triana will contribute to the following areas of Science:

   Radiation
   Make the first direct measurements of the radiant power emitted by the
   whole Sun-lit side of the Earth to increase our understanding of how
   much of the Sun's energy is absorbed in the atmosphere and to improve
   our understanding of global climate.

   Cloud Microphysical Properties
   Determine the size and shape of the particles that make up clouds, and
   how this influences cloud interactions with solar radiation.

   Aerosols
   Measure global aerosol optical thickness to increase our knowledge of
   how pollution, generated by both human and natural causes, affects the
   Earth.

   Ozone
   Research upper atmospheric wind patterns and ozone hole evolution using
   ozone concentration data.

   Vegetation Canopy Measurements
   Observe the vegetation canopy structure and evolution to monitor the
   health of the Earth's vegetation.

   Ultraviolet Radiation
   Measure ozone and cloud coverage to study their affect on the amount of
   UV radiation that reaches the ground.

   Solar Wind & Space Weather
   Improve our understanding of characteristics of the solar wind and
   magnetic field as well as provide an early warning system for
   communication satellites and ground based systems susceptible to
   solar-related disturbances.

   What is L1?

   The Lagrange-1 (L1) is the neutral gravity point between the Sun and
   the Earth. Lagrange points are points between two orbiting masses in
   which the gravitational pulls from both bodies are balanced exactly
   with the centripetal force required to rotate with them. Objects at
   these points then orbit at a constant distance from both masses.

   The L1 point is one percent of the way to the sun, or four times the
   distance from Earth to the moon, or about one million miles away from
   Earth. The solar wind reaches L1 about an hour before it reaches Earth,
   making it a good place to observe changes in solar activity before it
   affects Earth.

   Why is Triana going to orbit L1?

   From L1, Triana will have a continuous view of the Sun-lit side of the
   Earth at a distance of 1.5 million kilometers. In order to obtain the
   same coverage with current Earth-observing satellites in low Earth
   orbits and geostationary orbits, scientists must manipulate, calibrate,
   and correlate data from four or more independent satellites. The full
   view of the Sun-lit disk of the Earth, afforded by the L1 location, has
   tremendous potential for Earth science. Triana will be the first
   mission to explore this potential.

   The unique vista point from L1 will allow for a collection of data that
   could answer difficult questions facing climate researchers. For
   example, scientists still do not accurately know how much of the Sun's
   energy the Earth absorbs, re-emits, and reflects. This common
   measurement, called the planetary albedo, is vital for climate
   research. Unfortunately, it is difficult to measure the Earth's albedo
   due to cloud cover, ice, snow, smoke, volcanic ash, and other factors
   which cause it to constantly change. Triana can provide significantly
   better measurements of global albedo, and can redetermine the albedo
   every fifteen minutes, making it a good barometer of global change.
