http://www.nipc.gov/publications/nipcpub/password.htm

                           Password Protection 101

   Every year thousands of computers are illegally accessed because of
   weak passwords. How many users are guilty of any of the following
   things:
     * Writing down a password on a sticky note placed on or near your
       computer.
     * Using a word found in a dictionary. That's right, a dictionary. Any
       dictionary!
     * Using a word from a dictionary followed by 2 numbers.
     * Using the names of people, places, pets, or other common items.
     * Sharing your password with someone else.
     * Using the same password for more than one account, and for an
       extended period of time.
     * Using the default password provided by the vendor.

   Chances are, if you are anything like the majority of computer users,
   you answered yes to one or more of the above questions. The problem is,
   hackers are aware of these problems as well and target those who don't
   take the correct precautions.

   Why Is There A Problem?

   Passwords are one of the first lines of defense that users have to
   protect their systems. Unfortunately, people are not accustomed to
   remembering difficult passwords consisting of numbers and weird
   characters. The ever-increasing number of passwords required to work in
   today's world only makes this problem worse. Many people have
   compensated for this problem by writing down their password and keeping
   that information in an unsecured area, like stuck to a computer screen.

   One of the first things a hacker will attempt to do against a system is
   run a program that will attempt to guess the correct password of the
   target machine. These programs can contain entire dictionaries from
   several different languages. In addition to words found in
   dictionaries, these programs often contain words from popular culture
   such as science fiction movies and novels.

   Hackers like to attack people's weaknesses. One of the major weaknesses
   is the reluctance to remember several, long, difficult to guess words
   such as passwords. Therefore, once one is chosen, the likelihood that
   the same password is used for several accounts is very high. This is
   similar to the problem with default passwords because users have a
   tendency to keep the same password for a long period of time, thereby
   allowing the attacker that much more time to gain access to a system.

   What You Can Do?

   Remembering long passwords can be difficult, but there are some basic
   techniques users can employ to lessen the pain. First, choose a phrase
   that you will remember. As an example, we will use the phrase "The
   pearl in the river." You can then take a number that you are familiar
   with, such as a birthday. For this example we will use 7/4/01. Next,
   you can take the first letter of your phrase and interlace it with the
   chosen date to make something similar to t7p4i0t1r. This method creates
   a password that won't be found in any dictionary and is unique to the
   person who created it.

   t        p        i        t r      =t7p4i0t1r
   up arrow Up arrow Up arrow Up arrow
   7        4        0        1

   It is important to remember though, that any password can be guessed if
   given enough time. Therefore, it is important to change your password
   within the amount of time it would take an attacker to guess it. For
   example, with the previous password it may take an attacker 60 days on
   a very fast computer to guess what it is. In order to ensure your
   systems safety then, a user must change their password before those 60
   days come to an end.

   While password security is a very important deterrent to hackers
   gaining access to your system, it is only one component to the "defense
   in depth" principle. What this means, is passwords need to be used
   along with other measures such as updated anti-virus software and a
   personal firewall such as Zone Alarm. This is the first in a continuing
   series of articles that will help explain the importance of safe
   computing in today's networked world. If you have any questions on the
   above article please contact the watch at nipc.watch@fbi.gov.
   Additionally, please visit the following web sites for more information
   on the importance of strong passwords along with many other computer
   security matters.

                              Publications Page
