http://www.ctc.ca.gov/rfp/smr/science_part2_final.pdf

   Part II: Subject Matter Skills and Abilities Applicable to the Content
   Domains in Science Domain 1. Investigation and Experimentation
   Candidates for Single Subject Teaching Credentials in Science formulate
   and conduct scientific investigations. They select appropriate
   scientific tools, make relevant measurements of changes in natural
   phenomena, and present unbiased findings in logical and meaningful
   formats using charts, maps, tables, models, graphs, and labeled
   diagrams. Candidates apply mathematics to scientific investigations and
   experimentation(s) for the purpose of quantifying results and drawing
   conclusions. Candidates interpret experimental results and determine
   whether further information is necessary to formulate accurate
   conclusions. They communicate results through various methods, and use
   technology where appropriate. 1.1 Question Formulation a. Formulate and
   evaluate a viable hypothesis b. Recognize the value and role of
   observation prior to question formulation c. Recognize the iterative
   nature of questioning d. Given an experimental design, identify
   possible hypotheses that it may test 1.2 Planning a Scientific
   Investigation (including Experimental Design) a. Given a hypothesis,
   formulate an investigation or experimental design to test that
   hypothesis b. Evaluate an experimental design for its suitability to
   test a given hypothesis c. Distinguish between variable and controlled
   parameters 1.3 Observation and Data Collection a. Identify changes in
   natural phenomena over time without manipulating the phenomena (e.g., a
   tree limb, a grove of trees, a stream, a hill slope) b. Analyze the
   locations, sequences, and time intervals that are characteristic of
   natural phenomena (e.g., locations of planets over time, succession of
   species in an ecosystem) c. Select and use appropriate tools and
   technology (e.g., computer-linked probes, spreadsheets, graphing
   calculators) to perform tests, collect data, analyze relationships, and
   display data d. Evaluate the precision, accuracy, and reproducibility
   of data e. Identify and analyze possible reasons for inconsistent
   results, such as sources of error or uncontrolled conditions f.
   Identify and communicate sources of unavoidable experimental error g.
   Recognize the issues of statistical variability and explain the need
   for controlled tests h. Know and evaluate the safety issues when
   designing an experiment and implement appropriate solutions to safety
   problems i. Appropriately employ a variety of print and electronic
   resources (e.g., the World Wide Web) to collect information and
   evidence as part of a research project Science, Part II 1 j. Assess the
   accuracy and reliability of information gathered from a variety of
   sources 1.4 Data Analysis/Graphing a. Construct appropriate graphs from
   data and develop qualitative and quantitative statements about
   relationships between variables b. Recognize the slope of the linear
   graph as the constant in the relationship y=kx and apply this principle
   in interpreting graphs constructed from data c. Apply simple
   mathematical relationships to determine a missing quantity in an
   algebraic expression, given the two remaining terms (e.g., speed =
   distance/time, density = mass/volume, force = pressure x area, volume =
   area x height) d. Determine whether a relationship on a given graph is
   linear or non-linear and determine the appropriateness of extrapolating
   the data e. Solve scientific problems by using quadratic equations and
   simple trigonometric, exponential, and logarithmic functions 1.5
   Drawing Conclusions and Communicating Explanations a. Draw appropriate
   and logical conclusions from data b. Communicate the logical connection
   among hypotheses, science concepts, tests conducted, data collected,
   and conclusions drawn from the scientific evidence c. Communicate the
   steps and results of an investigation in written reports and oral
   presentations d. Recognize whether evidence is consistent with a
   proposed explanation e. Construct appropriate visual representations of
   scientific phenomenon and processes (e.g., motion of Earth's plates,
   cell structure) f. Read topographic and geologic maps for evidence
   provided on the maps and construct and interpret a simple scale map
   Domain 2. Nature of Science Candidates recognize that science is an
   active endeavor in which acquisition of knowledge is based upon the
   collection and examination of data. Candidates understand that
   scientists have a responsibility to report fully and openly the methods
   and results of their observations and experiments, even if those
   results disagree with their favored hypotheses or are controversial in
   public opinion. They understand that to hide data, arbitrarily
   eliminate data, or conceal how an experiment was conducted is to invite
   errors, make those errors difficult to discover, and risk harm to
   colleagues and communities. They understand that scientists carefully
   consider questions and challenges raised by fellow scientists about the
   assumptions, procedures, and accuracy of their experiments. They
   understand that a fundamental aspect of scientific inquiry is that it
   is dynamic and self-correcting by design. Conclusions, hypotheses, and
   theories are tested in every experiment and revised or rejected when
   they no longer correctly or accurately predict experimental results.
   Candidates understand that scientists must consider the safety, ethical
   concerns, risks, and costs and benefits of experiments to society.
   Science, Part II 2 2.1 Scientific Inquiry a. Distinguish among the
   terms hypothesis, theory, and prediction as used in scientific
   investigations b. Evaluate the usefulness, limitations, and
   interdisciplinary and cumulative nature of scientific evidence as it
   relates to the development of models and theories as representations of
   reality c. Recognize that when observations do not agree with an
   accepted scientific theory, either the observations are mistaken or
   fraudulent, or the accepted theory is erroneous or incorrect d.
   Understand that reproducibility of data is critical to the scientific
   endeavor e. Recognize that science is a self-correcting process that
   eventually identifies misconceptions and experimental biases f. Know
   that scientific advances validate the accuracy of predictions based on
   observations g. Recognize that technological advances sometimes result
   in profound paradigm shifts in scientific theories h. Recognize that an
   inquiring mind is at the heart of the scientific method and that doing
   science involves thinking critically about the evidence presented, the
   usefulness of models, and the limitations of theories i. Recognize that
   theories are judged by how well they explain observations and predict
   results and that when they represent new ideas that are counter to
   mainstream ideas they often encounter vigorous criticism j. Recognize
   that when observations, data, or experimental results do not agree, the
   unexpected results are not necessarily mistakes; to discard the unusual
   in order to reach the expected is to guarantee that nothing but what is
   expected will ever be seen k. Know why curiosity, honesty, openness,
   and skepticism are so highly regarded in science and how they are
   incorporated into the way science is carried out 2.2 Scientific Ethics
   a. Understand that honesty is at the core of scientific ethics; first
   and foremost is the honest and accurate reporting of procedures used
   and data collected b. Know that all scientists are obligated to
   evaluate the safety of an investigation and ensure the safety of those
   performing the experiment c. Understand that some scientific endeavors
   may have unintended consequences, and it is the responsibility of the
   investigator to help solve any problems caused by these unanticipated
   results d. Know the procedures for respectful treatment of all living
   organisms in experimentation and other investigations (refer to
   California Educational Code 51540; Science Safety Handbook for
   California Public Schools) 2.3 Historical Perspectives a. Discuss the
   cumulative nature of scientific evidence as it relates to the
   development of models and theories b. Discuss why data from historical
   scientific articles can be trusted even if the explanation for the
   observations is no longer valid Science, Part II 3 c. Recognize that as
   knowledge in science evolves, when observations do not support an
   accepted scientific theory, the observations are reconsidered to
   determine if they are mistaken or fraudulent, or if the accepted theory
   is erroneous or incomplete (e.g., an erroneous theory is the Piltdown
   Man fossil; an incomplete theory is Newton's laws of gravity) d.
   Recognize and provide specific examples that scientific advances
   sometimes result in profound paradigm shifts in scientific theories e.
   Discuss the need for clear and understandable communication of
   scientific endeavors so that they may be reproduced and why
   reproduction of these endeavors is important Domain 3. Science and
   Society Candidates understand that science relies on basic human
   qualities such as reasoning, insight, curiosity, skill, and creativity
   as well as on scientific habits of mind such as intellectual honesty,
   tolerance of ambiguity, skepticism, and openness to new ideas.
   Candidates recognize their responsibility to increase scientific
   literacy so that the general population can understand current issues
   and appreciate their personal roles and responsibilities. Candidates
   know about possible hazards and take precautions that are the basis for
   creating a safe learning environment that benefits all students. They
   are familiar with established rules and guidelines that intend to
   ensure the safety of students and to protect the subjects and
   environments studied. Candidates understand that technology is the
   application of proven scientific knowledge for practical purposes
   serving human needs; however, science and technology are
   interrelated-one often propels the other. 3.1 Science Literacy a.
   Recognize that science attempts to make sense of how the natural and
   the designed world function b. Demonstrate the ability to apply
   critical and independent thinking to weigh alternative explanations of
   events c. Apply evidence, numbers, patterns, and logical arguments to
   solve problems d. Apply uncertainties in data values to evaluate the
   confidence level of the proposed problem solution e. Understand that,
   although much has been learned about the objects, events and phenomena
   in nature, there are many unanswered questions, i.e., science is a work
   in progress f. Know that the ability of science and technology to
   resolve societal problems depends on the scientific literacy of a
   society 3.2 Diversity a. Identify examples of women and men of various
   social and ethnic backgrounds with diverse interests, talents,
   qualities and motivations who are, or who have been, engaged in
   activities of science and related fields b. Know that different
   sciences require varied abilities, depending on the field of study and
   type of inquiry c. Identify diverse interests, talents, qualities, and
   motivations of people that can be utilized as different scientific
   strengths Science, Part II 4 d. Know that both individuals and teams of
   researchers contribute to the scientific enterprise, and all
   communicate extensively with their peers (e.g., the Human Genome
   Project) e. Recognize that there are inherent socio-cultural influences
   upon scientists that can be incorporated into their models, theories,
   or interpretations of data 3.3 Science, Technology, and Society a.
   Recognize that scientific principles can be applied to advance
   technology b. Cite opportunities for technological advancement in
   industry and our everyday lives c. Identify and evaluate the impact of
   scientific advances on society d. Recognize that scientific advances
   may challenge individuals to reevaluate their personal beliefs e.
   Recognize that science is a part of society and not separate f.
   Recognize that scientific issues may be resolved in the political arena
   instead of by the scientific community 3.4 Safety a. Choose appropriate
   safety equipment for a given activity (e.g., goggles, apron, vented
   hood) b. Discuss the safe use, storage, and disposal of commonly used
   chemicals and biological specimens c. Assess the safety conditions
   needed to maintain a science laboratory (e.g., eye wash, shower, fire
   extinguisher) d. Read and decode MSDS/OSHA (Material Safety Data
   Sheet/Occupational Safety and Health Administration) labels on
   laboratory supplies and equipment e. Discuss key issues in the disposal
   of hazardous materials in either the laboratory or the local community
   f. Be familiar with standard safety procedures such as those outlined
   in the Science Safety Handbook for California Schools Science, Part II
   5
