http://courts.phila.gov/courterly/courterly.pdf

   FIRST JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA T T T T THE HE HE HE HE C C C C
   COUR OUR OUR OUR OURTERL TERL TERL TERL TERLY Y Y Y Y Fall 2001 Volume
   4, Issue 2 Painting courtesy of Noel Miles Points of Interest Employees
   reach milestones ............ 2, 3 Juvenile Automated Mgmt.
   System........... 3 Technology Day drew scores of judges to a showcase
   of technological demonstrations provided by employees Paperless
   Courtroom from throughout the Courts of the District. The array of
   Viewed ....................... 3 electronic solutions and initiatives
   was truly impressive. They included electronic traffic tickets,
   advanced fin- Judge Blasi Hits it Big .................. 3 gerprinting
   management, e-filing systems for small claims and mental health cases,
   automated criminal case Age Overcomes management systems, budgeting,
   Orphans' Court man- Youth ......................... 4 agement, FJD
   internet, an attorney attachment system, and upgrades in Court Reporter
   programs. Nobile Tranzilli ......... 4 The success of Technology Day
   was due to the hard An FJD Wedding ...... 4 work and expertise of many
   employees. Top left: Melissa Copestake shows off Court Reporter tech-
   nology. Prothy Facelift .......... 5 Left: Chief Deputy Court
   Administrator David C. Life-Saving Lawrence (left) and President Judge
   Frederica A. Massiah-Jackson (center), with Court Administra- Training
   ..................... 5 tive Officer William Schwartz of MIS, who
   worked diligently along with other MIS staff members to Employees set
   up equipment and exhibits. Reaching Out........ 6, 7 Below: DR
   Programmer Manager Michael Armento and MIS Director Cliff Baumbach
   exchange views. Resume Quotes........ 8 Blasts From the Past
   ..................... 8 A TRIBUTE: To the many things that did NOT
   perish on September 11: the spirit of those who departed this life and
   those who did not; their ultimate sacrifice and that of their rescuers;
   the hope that has From a job-seeker's cover letter: been engendered in
   us all; and "Thank you for your consideration. Hope to hear from you
   the resolve forged across the shorty!" nation and around the world.
   More Resume Quotations on page 8. THE COURTERLY Page 2 FJD
   ANNIVERSARIES Technology Day Participants The following employment
   anniversaries were reached during President Judge Frederica A.
   Massiah-Jackson the period January - June 2001. Administrative Judge
   Joseph D. O'Keefe Joseph J. DiPrimio, Esq., Court Administrator 20
   YEARS Thomas Barbieri, Prothonotary Honorable Joseph H. Evers,
   Prothonotary Harry M. Blanchard, Traffic Court William Babcock, Center
   City District Sharon A. Crimi, J. DiNubile Glenn S. Bozzacco, Esq.,
   Dep. Ct. Administrator Anna B. Culmer, Adult Prob. Joe Cairone, Trial
   Division Peter M. Dacko, Tipstaff Maria Criniti, Court Administrative
   Officer Kevin A. Daly, Prothonotary Kevin Cross, Dep. Ct. Administrator
   Maria O. Dowbusz, Pretrial Carl L. Divens, Senior Staff Advisor Darlene
   Gaines, Juvenile Janet Fasy Dowds, Dep. Ct. Administrator Joseph
   Giantomaso, DR Michael Henkel, Court Administrative Officer Donna I.
   Glynn, Ct. Admin. Robert Grasso, DR David C. Lawrence, Chief Dep. Ct.
   Administrator Nancy T. Gregory, Traffic Court Daniel F. Madonna,
   Director Jerry C. Hopkins, Juvenile Systems & Support Development
   Deputy Court Administrator Glenn Bozzacco and Carmen E. Lassus,
   Tipstaff Richard McSorley, Esq, Ct. Administrative Officer Verilaw Rep.
   Susan Barnes. Victor J. Marella, Tipstaff Sandra Nardi, Court
   Administrative Officer Theresa Martin, Data Proc. Kathleen Rapone, Dep.
   Ct. Administrator Russell Micciche, MC Dominic Rossi, Esq., Dep. Ct.
   Administrator Marilyn Miller, DR Donald A. Varley, Jr., Director of
   Internet Services Louis R. Narvaez, Adult Prob. Leonard A. Hacking,
   Senior Staff Advisor Marleasa A. Newsome, Prothy Miriam K.
   Prioleau-Gunter, Juvenile Edward Rementer, Director, Administrative
   Services Dominic C. Reda, Jr., Traffic Court John Guerrera and Staff,
   Building Facilities Jeanne N. Scott, Traffic Court Cliff Baumbach and
   Staff, MIS Marvella L. Simmons, Prothy Billy Schwartz, MIS Bonita E.
   Stephens, Juvenile Staci Wickizer, MIS Marilyn T. Tyler, Adult Prob. Ed
   Fauser, MIS Stanley Wilson, Jr., Ct. Rep. Hai Ngo, MIS James E. White,
   Supervisor, First Filing 25 YEARS Bill Lanzelotti, Supervisor,
   Certification Joan C. Barron-Fauser, Pretrial Police Officer Lillian
   Evans, R&I Unit George W. Berkelbach, J. DiBona Police Officer Eleanor
   Zimmerman, R&I Unit Patricia L. Blow, Adult Prob. Terence J. Bigley,
   Court Administrative Officer Ruth Bell of President Judge
   Massiah-Jackson's Mary J. Boone, Procurement staff. James C. Brennan,
   Jr., Linda DeGregorio, Treatment Court Coordinator Terence D. Brown,
   Juvenile Amy C. Hafner, Adult Probation & Parole Dept. John J. Bullard,
   Tipstaff Dana Delavalla, Adult Probation & Parole Dept. Curtis C.
   Carson III, Tipstaff Daniel E. Smith, MOIS Mary M. Curry, Ct. Rep.
   Douglas Zweizig, Court Reporters/Interpreters John P. Dennehy, Jr.,
   Act. Crim. Rec. Melissa Copestake, Court Reporters/Interpreters Mary
   DiGirolamo, DR Amie Grubb, ACS, State & Local Solutions Kenneth P.
   Doyle, Tipstaff Edward Kerkow, ACS, State & Local Solutions Lillian
   Drozdowski, Law Library Eric Hunn, ACS, State & Local Solutions Cathy
   D. Duncan, DR George A. Ellmer, Bldg. & Fac. Phil Park, Deloitte, PMO
   Gregory J. Ford, Adult Prob. Nidish Mada, Deloitte, PMO John E.
   Giampietro, Traffic Court Bonnie O'Kane, Deputy Prothonotary Joseph M.
   Harrington, Adult Prob. Charles A. Mapp, Sr., Dep. Ct. Administrator
   Massie M. Horsey, J. Presenza Judge Anne E. Lazarus and Staff Richard
   Marrella, Tipstaff Judge Joseph D. O'Keefe and Staff Kathleen M. Meyer,
   J. Keogh Boyd Taggart, Court Administrative Officer Susan L. Molino,
   Adult Prob. James Pirolli, Building Facilities Deputy Court
   Administrator Kathleen Rapone, Michelle T. Palamarchuk, Ct. Rep. Glenn
   Veney, Building Facilities Internet Administrator Don Varley, and
   Deputy Jacquelin S. Pearson, DR Court Administrator Joseph A. Cairone.
   Nancy Pollis, FC Admin. Ernestine L. Singleton, Juvenile Ernestine R.
   Span, DR Joann P. Tyczka, DR Phi-la-gen-er-os-i-ty Anna C. Veasey,
   Adult Prob. On October 17, 2001, the Supreme Court appointed The City
   of Philadelphia Employ- ees' Combined Campaign 2002 30 YEARS Judge
   Seamus P. McCaffery is now underway. This year's Donald E. Ariosto,
   Adult Prob. Administrative Judge of the theme is Philagenerosity - a
   Brenda Y. Bolden, Act. Crim. Rec. demonstration of how much we Joseph
   L. Bond, Jr., Adult Prob. Philadelphia Municipal care for those who are
   less for- Catherine P. Cairone, Tipstaff Court. tunate. Your
   Philagenerosity Kathleen M. Cuniff, Pretrial We wish Administrative
   makes a difference in so many David A. Deik, Ct. Rep. people's lives on
   a local, national, Edward A. Duffy, Tipstaff Judge McCaffery well in
   all and international level. Thank Louis Ferlaino, DR his endeavors.
   you for your support! THE COURTERLY Page 3 Juvenile Automated
   Management System Grows Kenneth C. Mader, Tipstaff Mary Peiffer,
   Juvenile For the past year, efforts have 200 Juvenile Probation Offic-
   ments will be imaged from pa- Theodore J. Shearer, Juvenile been
   underway to design and ers in managing their per, from electronic file
   Judith Schechtman, Adult Prob. implement a new comprehen- caseloads.
   transfer such as e-mail, and Richard Steinmetz, Jury Sel. Patricia D.
   Tyler, Procurement sive automated system for the The system will allow
   for from fax. New automated Juvenile Branch of the Family processing in
   other areas as tools will also include ad- 35 YEARS Division. When
   completed, well, including adoptions, de- vanced forms processing David
   L. Allen, Juvenile the system will perform all of pendency, restitution
   and capabilities, the ability to elec- Dolores C. Gericke, Juvenile
   Anthony A. Giordano, Ct. Rep. the functions required to sup- community
   service, and tru- tronically capture digital William D. Kalniz, DR port
   the work of the entire ancy. It will be augmented by photographs of
   juveniles and Salvatore Natale, Ct. Rep. Branch including intake, an
   integrated imaging system maintain them in a local data- Samuel
   Nerenblatt, Tipstaff Helen P. Richardson, Juvenile scheduling, order
   processing with online access and real base, and will generate hearing
   Dona P. Rhuberg, Jury Sel. and case tracking. The new time availability
   for all docu- notices, orders and letters. Richard V. Vinci, Adult
   Prob. program will especially benefit ments in the Juvenile case files,
   Juvenile Probation in support- particularly reports received 40 YEARS
   Ervin L. Davis, FC Admin. ing the efforts of the more than from service
   providers. Docu- Emma A. Minott, Juvenile Willie Mae Washington, J.
   Clark Maryland Court Views Paperless Courtroom RETIREMENTS Municipal
   Court hosted Mary- ated, filed, and adjudicated ment system. Welcoming
   the The following retirements were land court representatives
   electronically. They watched Maryland representatives announced for the
   period January - June 2001. Honorable Martha F. Rasin, in amazement as
   the trial com- were: Administrative Judge Chief Judge of the District
   missioner reviewed the trial list Blasi; CLAIMS Project Direc- Rita
   Carsello, Family Div. 22 years, 4 months Court of Maryland; Chief from
   a computer monitor and tor and Deputy Court Dale J. Celenza, CP
   Tipstaff Clerk Patricia H. Platt; Charles entered dispositions with the
   Administrator of Operations, 28 years, 7 months E. Moulden, Assistant
   Chief click of a mouse, completing Glenn S. Bozzacco, Esq.; Civil
   Francis J. Diodato, Prothonotary 13 years, 5 months Clerk for
   Operations; and Ri- the list of 26 cases in less than Division Deputy
   Court Admin- Rocco B. Fantazzi, Prothonotary chard Clemens, Assistant
   Chief 20 minutes. The only paper istrator Patricia McDermott; 29 years,
   10 months Clerk of Finance for an e-fil- used was for case disposition
   and CLAIMS Project Manager Samuel Gullota, Jr., Bldg. & Fac. 28 years,
   8 months ing demo. While here, they orders that were printed for the
   and MIS Specialist Maria Frederick J. Hagan, Adult Prob. gathered
   information about the attorney's file. The docket dis- Criniti. 30
   years, 3 months MC CLAIMS project and wit- position is created real
   time via Walter D. Horton, Adult Prob. 34 years nessed the operation of
   a the Internet. Small claim fil- Barbara E. Hudson, Family Div.
   paperless courtroom. They ing and exhibits can be viewed 38 years
   observed the CLAIMS pilot in the courtroom through the Cephas Johnson,
   CP Tipstaff 9 years program where cases are cre- CLAIMS document
   manage- Bernadette Jones, Family Div. 34 years, 2 months Katherine M.
   Krynski, Traffic Court 11 years, 10 months Judge Blasi Hits it Big in
   Las Vegas Alfred Marroletti, Law Clerk 27 years, 3 months
   Administrative Judge Robert demonstration was a confer- Pennsylvania
   Supreme Court Joseph A. Marroletti, Sr., Law Clerk S. Blasi represented
   the FJD at ence highlight. Afterward, an had had the foresight to
   estab- 2 years, 2 months Harvey Maslynsky, Ct. Rep. the National Center
   for State IT specialist commented that lish electronic filing rules, he
   30 years, 4 months Courts Electronic Filing Con- the CLAIMS project was
   four was able to proceed accord- Mary Ellen McGahan, MC ference.
   Selected to be a years ahead of other jurisdic- ingly. 16 years
   Catherine G. Micenec, MC faculty member for the confer- tions. The
   Philadelphia Munici- 15 years ence, Judge Blasi and Project A Judge
   from the Midwest pal Court will be the first major Sonia Neri, Traffic
   Court Director Glenn S. Bozzacco noted that most courts do not
   jurisdiction in the country to 17 years Marcia Osser, Family Div.
   demonstrated the Municipal have rules permitting e-filing. integrate
   case management, 20 years, 5 months Court (MC) electronic filing He
   talked of "begging for for- document management, and Eleanor J.
   Roberts, Civil CLAIMS project to an audi- giveness" from his judicial
   electronic filing systems via 25 years, 11 months Rosalie M. Roedell,
   Jud. Secty. ence of more than 350. They leaders because rules did not
   the Internet. 13 years, 10 months filed a small claim, selected a exist
   for his e-filing project. Samuel A. Rymer, FC Tipstaff trial date and
   validated the fil- Judge Blasi was pleased to re- 34 years, 5 months
   Wendell J. Turner, Adult Prob. ing live, via the Internet. Their port
   that since the 12 years, 7 months THE COURTERLY Page 4 Age Overcomes
   Youth in Adult Probation Softball by Archie Epperson For the past
   several years, two life. So it does also on the soft- umpire, kept
   things moving game with Federal Probation. avid amateur athletes, Chris
   ball field. The first year the along fairly, though with a Winners of
   this duel own brag- McFillin and this writer, have youngsters were
   seriously little controversy as the young ging rights among reignited a
   longstanding Adult overmatched and had their guys contested calls all
   game Philadelphia's Probation Offic- Probation and Parole Depart- heads
   handed to them. They long. Prevailing by a score of ers. In this match
   of probation ment (APPD) tradition by could not believe the Ben Gay 13
   to 9, wisdom and experi- departments, young and old staging and
   establishing an age crowd could so thoroughly ence conquered once
   again. APPD ballplayers played as al- war on the softball field each
   thrash them. The same was true Bragging rights secured lies. Maybe the
   young folks summer. Yes that's right! The of the later games. Who would
   once more, till we play again learned a thing or two as to- young
   against the old. Battle have thought such a thing next year, the young
   guys had gether we beat the Fed's, lines are drawn between those would
   keep happening? a chance to save face in a 13-12. Oldheads Rule! 35
   years old and over, and the This year, the youngsters youth of the
   department - those began their bravado in early under that age. The
   "WAR" is Spring. Chris began gathering waged on the softball field for
   his troops and was extremely Nobile M. Tranzilli Sorely Missed bragging
   rights in the depart- optimistic about the new em- ment. Staff signs up
   to play, ployees from among whom he The loss of Nobile M. Tranzilli,
   Esquire from the Master's Unit cook on the grill, cheer on their could
   choose. With a crop that was profound. He was a very hard worker and
   extremely consci- team, and just plain have some had prior organized
   baseball entious. The last day he was alive I saw him at the door of my
   fun. This annual all-out com- and softball experience it office a
   little after 7AM. He was always joyful. We spoke about petition allows
   the new looked like maybe this time the work. He turned his head in the
   way he would and spoke lightly employees (usually young "Oldheads"
   would bow to the over his shoulder with a smile as only Nobile could
   do. I last fresh-out-of-college POs and upstarts. Chris pitched and had
   spoke with Nobile around 11:30 when he was talking with staff in early
   career persons) to inter- stellar games from Jim Telese, the hallway. I
   could not believe the call I received at home that act and to get to
   know the Adam Peterson, Patrick night, it just could not be! Yet, God
   in his wisdom made the deter- management and veteran staff Westner,
   Fred Crawford, and mination that Nobile would walk with us on this
   earth no more. on neutral turf. Joe Petraca. But the star of the Our
   unit has constant reminders of his presence. We speak warmly Prior to
   1998 the Proba- game with the gold glove was and often of Nobile as we
   feel the energy that remains. His fam- tion Department had a softball
   none other than Melinda Sarin. ily has become our co-workers as we
   remain in touch to encourage team in the now defunct City Without her
   they would have each other. With other staff of the court the Master's
   Unit will League, PMERC. Great teams been dispatched post haste. always
   hold deeply and warmly the remembrance of Nobile.  from APPD won
   numerous di- Sarin played a flawless second Nobile M. Tranzilli Esq.,
   an important member of the FJD team and an esteemed co-worker, departed
   this life but not our consciousness. The above remembrance visional
   titles and city base, turning a nifty double was written by the
   Honorable Elizabeth Jackson prior to her appointment and championships
   through the play and spearing a screaming subsequent election to the
   bench. early 1980's and 90's. Chris line drive to kill a rally in mid
   and I played on those great game. But alas, while the teams (Probation
   Panthers) af- young guns jumped out to a 5 ter 1987 and won a city
   title for to 0 lead in the first several in- the last time in 1995,
   defeat- nings, the old guys, with the ing Family Court. It became play
   of Bob Malvestuto, Tony increasingly more difficult to Sassilli, Jim
   Harkins, and field a team, organize and run Wayne King, along with the
   six it, and to respond to our other strike out pitching of Archie
   outside commitments; so the Epperson, hung tough to see it Panthers
   team dissolved in through. As always, the star of 1998. Enter the "Boys
   of Sum- the game, Cecil Shamberger, mer" void and the age-old habit was
   there to make that special of reminiscing times of old and play at
   shortstop or get the big things of the past. Missing the hit to keep
   the rally going. camaraderie, we decided to Gina James and Kathy Waters
   bring back the memories and kept the dogs jumping off the get everyone
   involved. grill while volunteer umps Romance bloomed in City Hall on
   January 19, as then President Judge Alex Bonavitacola presided over the
   marriage Needless to say, wisdom Gary Cenna, the plate umpire, of MIS'
   Hai Ngo and his lovely bride, Phenh Van Phung. usually triumphs over
   youth in and Judge Ben Lerner, the base THE COURTERLY Page 5
   Prothonotary Gets a Facelift Brian Senft has been painting his original
   designs. the Prothy's office over the last ers on the Schuylkill River
   murals for the past four years. The murals are part of the year and a
   half. along the West River Drive His newest works can be found
   finishing touches of a general Jane Golden, director of against a
   backdrop of the in the Prothonotary First and make-over and remodeling
   the Philadelphia Mural Arts Girard Avenue Bridge. the Second Filing
   Units in City project of the various units of program, was contacted
   and Mr. The energy, creativity and Hall rooms 280 and 278. the Office
   of the Prothonotary. Senft, a full-time muralist, was physical strength
   conveyed in These are the first display of Joseph Evers, Prothonotary,
   commissioned to design and the representation of these sub- expressed
   paint the murals. Senft, 33, is jects is a superb example of the an
   interest in originally from Emmaus, Penn- artist's skillful and
   harmonious utilizing the sylvania. He studied classicism melding of his
   medium with large wall and principles of classical de- the environment.
   These murals space avail- sign at Barnstone Studios in are truly unique
   works of art, able in two Coplay, Pennsylvania. and an experience not
   to be of the units. Brian's mural in the First missed. The idea of
   Filing Unit commemorates "It's been an exciting the murals City Hall's
   100th anniversary. project," said Senft, "and grati- was consid- The
   building's architect, John fying to see my own designs ered the best
   McArthur, and sculptor, utilized for the first time on way to aes-
   Alexander Calder, are repre- these murals. The people here t h e t i c
   a l l y sented by figures standing in have been generous with their
   complement front of the south entrance of corporation. Having the sup-
   the techno- City Hall. This entrance design port of such an audience
   has logical and spotlights a judicial icon. The made this job more
   fun." p h y s i c a l mural in the Second Filing Unit A dedication
   ceremony is changes tak- is a landscape shows an idyllic planned. ing
   place in autumnal scene depicting row- Artist Brian Senft at work on
   the mural. Employees Train to Save Lives In April, 54 employees were
   trained by the Red Cross in the use Joseph Ferrara, Melissa Copestake,
   Maria Colon, Anthony Sasselli, of lifesaving Automated External
   Defibrillator (AED) machines. Robert Grasso, Marcy Levin, Theresa
   Cannon, Mayann Brogesi, AEDs are used by police and rescue agencies, at
   airports and large Karleen Flowers, Kenneth Doyle, Carol Blackmon and
   Frank companies all over the country in an effort to save more lives of
   Staiano. cardiac arrest victims. Without immediate access to
   defibrillation, the national survival rate for these victims is less
   than 5 percent. Studies indicate the survival rate can exceed 70
   percent if defibril- lation is administered within the first few
   minutes. The AED units are slightly larger than a laptop computer and
   are easy to operate. A voice prompt instructs the user how and when to
   administer the defibrillation. The units are located through- out
   buildings which house FJD personnel so that an emergency can be
   responded to by a trained AED operator quickly. Employees who
   participated in the training are as follows: Domenic Brunelli, Joseph
   Evers, Stanley Chmeliewski, Anthony Romano, Virginia King, Carolyn
   Dombrowski, Paul Verdi, John DiBernardo, Mary McGovern, Joseph Hassett,
   Gary Irvine, Dana Della Valla, Frank DeFrancesco, Frank Spatacco, Jerry
   Golden, Sandra Stibbins, Catherine Marx, Ed Halligan, Leon Plocha,
   James Brooks, Mary Dougherty, Carol Copes, Mary Flood, Denise
   Lancaster, Marian Tyler, Harry Peterson, Donald Taylor, Alice Flamer,
   Alice Travelina, Captain John Keaveney, Patricia Blow, Mary Jo
   Urbanski, Joanne Weglicki, Kevin Reynolds, Bonnie O'Kane, William
   Rullo, Shanda Holloway, Harold Palmer, Kathleen Gallagher, Gurnell
   Williams, Rose Lalli, Marlene Dorsey, Mary McGovern and Joe Hassett
   test the AED Unit on a manikin. THE COURTERLY Page 6 Employees R eac
   hin g Out Philadelphia Reads In October, FJD employees met with
   students from the Thomas Durham Elementary School to begin a new season
   in the Phila- delphia Reads program. Philadelphia Reads was created as
   a result of the presidential summit held in Philadelphia in 1997. The
   goal: for the American public to become involved in creating a brighter
   future for all children by ensuring that all children read well and
   indepen- dently buy the end of third grade. Employees enthusi-
   astically volunteer their lunchtime every Thursday to read with
   students in the 1st and 3rd grades. At the end of last season, the
   coaches were treated to a ride on the big yellow school bus in the
   oppo- s i t e direction  they went to the D u r h a m School at 16th
   and Lo- cust to have lunch there with the Coaches Marie Hauser (left),
   Delonce Hines (above top) and Michelle Montano (above bottom) during a
   reading session. Above left, a students. Durham Elementary School
   student plays judge. Race for the Cure A group of more than 40 persons
   proudly participated as a First Judicial District team in the 11th
   Annual Race for the Cure. Al- most 35,000 Philadelphians participated
   and raised over $2 million. Participants walked 5k (3 miles) or 1k (.6
   mile) or ran 5k.The sponsoring organization is the Philadelphia Breast
   Health Insti- tute, associated with the Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer
   Foundation, a national organization based in Dallas. The Breast Health
   Institute raises funds for breast cancer research, education and
   clinical care. In addition, it provides free mammogram, and follow-up
   care when needed, for Delaware Valley women who do not have medical
   insurance coverage. This was the first team effort under the banner of
   the First Judicial District and readers are urged to join next year in
   honor Front row, left to right: Judge Flora Barth Wolf, Judge Pamela
   Pryor Dembe, Judge Ann E. Lazarus, Judge Myrna P. Field, and Judge of
   or in memory of all women who suffered from this disease. Carolyn Engel
   Temin. Middle row, left to right: Judge Lillian Harris Ransom,
   President Judge Frederica A. Massiah-Jackson, Judge Marlene F. Lachman,
   and Judge Sandra Mazer Moss. Back row, left to right: Judge Barbara A.
   Joseph and Judge Gwendolyn Conway. THE COURTERLY Page 7 Employees R eac
   hin g Out United We Stand II: United We Gave - 131% We only needed 100
   pints, but on October 31st, 131 First Judicial District judges and
   employees gave of their time and their life's blood at the FJD 2001
   Blood Drive. In doing so, they demon- strated the solidarity of their
   resolve, their dedication to the country and community at large, and
   their genuine consideration for oth- ers. Through their participation,
   donors and volunteers displayed some of the true assets of the FJD
   workforce: reliably strong heart, indomitable spirit, and pride in
   their Court and America. With their high regard for the welfare and
   dignity of others, the FJD team members were themselves shown to be
   individuals worthy of special distinction. As further evidence of the
   depth of the FJD team, many who wished to pledge were turned away due
   Top: Among those from Domes- tic Relations who came out to to Red Cross
   personnel and equipment limitations. Another drive give blood were
   (left to right): will be held early next year. Lisa Jordan-Phillips,
   Fred Our heartfelt thanks go out to Keller, and Erin Costello. all
   those who gave, those who Right: John Guerrera of wished to give, and
   especially Building Services patiently waits those of you who
   volunteered his turn. your time and considerable ef- fort to make this
   very important project a rousing Cheeley Fundraiser Successful success.
   Look for publication The recent fund raiser for former City Hall/CJC
   Mailroom Super- of the names of these local he- visor Leonard Cheeley,
   Jr. was extremely successful, raising a total roes in the very near
   future. of $1,560. Many thanks to all who donated to this worthy
   effort. The raffle was held on September 21, 2001, and the winner was
   Civil Administration's Claire Kelly. Congratulations, Claire!
   Prothonotary's Madeline Leonard is still recuperating, and is presently
   in a rehab cen- Cornaglia got into the Hallow- ter. Russell Gamble,
   Enoch McCullough, Gary Irvine and Stanley een spirit with a bright wig.
   Wilson would be happy to bring Leonard any cards or notes you may want
   to send. Many judges joined in the blood drive effort. Left to right:
   Judge Mark I. Bernstein, Judge Renee Cardwell Hughes, Judge Marlene F.
   Lachman, President Judge Frederica A. Massiah Jackson, Judge Albert W.
   Sheppard, Jr., Judge Nitza I. Quinones-Alejandro, Judge Leonard
   Cheeley's co-workers helped celebrate his birthday. Left to William J.
   Mazzola, and Judge Gene D. Cohen. Not pictured: Judge right: Russell
   Gamble and Enoch McCullough of the FJD Mailroom, Richard B. Klein,
   Judge Karen Shreeves-Johns and Judge Flora Barth Stanley Wilson of the
   Record Reproduction Center, and Administrative Wolf. Services Director
   Ed Rementer. THE COURTERLY Page 8 Resume Quotations The following
   quotations were taken from resumes and cover letters. BLASTS "Special
   Skills: Thyping." From the Past "I have a bachelorette degree in
   computers." "Graduated in the top 66% of my class." Municipal Court's
   Rich "Married, eight children. Prefer frequent travel." McSorley
   (right) is all dressed up for a night of dancing. "Experience: Watered,
   groomed, and fed the family dog for years." Below, Mary Connaire of
   Human Resources poses for a "Work history: Bum. Abandoned belongings
   and led nomadic glamour shot. lifestyle." "Reason for leaving last job:
   The owner gave new meaning to the word `paranoia.' I prefer to
   elaborate privately." "Special Skills: Speak English." "Fortunately
   because of stress, worked in the cardiac intensive- care ward." "Once
   focused on an objective, I believe myself to have an undy- ing lust for
   success with accuracy and effeciency." "Seek challenges that test my
   mind and body, since the two are usually inseparable." "Extensive
   background in public accounting. I can also stand on my head!"
   "Exposure to German for two years, but many words are inappro- priate
   for business." "Accomplishments: Completed 11 years of high school."
   "Excellent memory; strong math aptitude; excellent memory; ef- fective
   management skills; and very good at math." The C The C The C The C The
   Cour our our our ourttttterl erl erl erl erlyyyyy Editorial Board
   "Enclosed is a ruff draft of my resume." Len Hacking, Editor
   ............................................ 686-3775 Len Armstrong, CP
   Trial Division - Criminal ....... 683-7506 "Please disregard the
   attached resume - it is terribly out of date." Charles Mapp, CP Trial
   Division - Civil .............. 683-7401 "It's best for employers that
   I not work with people." John Buggy, CP Family Division - Juvenile
   ........ 686-7786 Karen Leone, CP Family Division - DR ..............
   686-3830 "Insufficient writing skills, thought processes have slowed
   down George Mathew, CP Orphans' Division .............. 686-2207 some.
   If I am not one of the best, I will look for another opportu- Lori
   Medaglia, Traffic Court ................................ 686-1668
   nity." Joseph Evers, Prothonotary ...............................
   686-6652 Phillip Valone, Prothonotary ...............................
   686-6652 "Here are my qualifications for you to overlook." Thomas I.
   McGill, Jr., Esq., Judicial Staff ........... 686-5100 Joanne Weglicki,
   MC - Criminal ......................... 683-7287 "I am relatively
   intelligent, obedient, and as loyal as a puppy." Joseph McDermott, MC -
   Civil ........................... 686-2975 "I need just enough money to
   have pizza every night." Janet Fasy Dowds, Court Reporters
   .................. 683-8000 Tom Bly, Human Resources
   ............................... 683-6949 "My compensation should be at
   least equal to my age." Don Varley, Data Processing
   ............................. 683-6978 "My salary requirement is $34
   per year." Margaret M. Donapel, Procurement ...................
   683-7950 The Courterly is published four times a year. As an "I'll need
   $30K to start, full medical, three weeks vacation, stock employee
   newsletter, all members of the FJD are options and ideally a European
   sedan." encouraged to submit ideas or suggestions. Submissions "I
   worked here full-time there." may be made to the department
   representatives above, or to Len Hacking in Room 395 City Hall or via
   e-mail. "I'll starve without a job but don't feel you have to give me
   one."
