http://web2.ncifcrf.gov/aboutus/privacy.asp

   National Cancer Institute at Frederick
   About Us Scientific Research Research Technology Program Scientific
   Research Resources Campus Information Career Opportunities
   NCI-Frederick Home NCI-Frederick Phone Book Search NCI-Frederick


   About NCI-Frederick
   Visitor Information
   Contact Information
   Administrative Offices & Services
   Contractors
   History of NCI-Frederick
   Privacy Information
   Disclaimer


Privacy Information

   The privacy of our users is of utmost importance to NCI-Frederick. The
   policy outlined below establishes how NCI-Frederick will use the
   information we gather about you from your visit to our website.
   If you visit an NCI-Frederick site:

     We may collect and store information for statistical purposes. For
     example, we may count the number of visitors to the different
     sections of our site to help us make these sections more useful to
     visitors.  Similar information is gathered for anonymous ftp, remote
     account log-in, or for other comparable types of connections.

   If you send us an e-mail:

     By sending us an electronic mail message, you may be sending us
     personal information (e.g., name, address, e-mail address), as in an
     official Freedom of Information Act request.  We may store the name
     and address of the requester in order to respond to the request or
     to otherwise resolve the subject matter of your e-mail.

   If you send us any other information:

     With the goal of providing better service to our users, some of our
     sites may include questionnaires, feedback forms, or other means to
     determine a visitor's interests.  Regardless of the information
     being transmitted to NCI-Frederick, we will protect all such
     information consistent with applicable law.



   National Cancer Institute web site
   Top of Page | Home Page | Search | Privacy | Disclaimer
   About Us | Research | Research Technology Program | Resources | Campus
   | Careers

   Copyright © 2000 NCI. All rights reserved National Institute of Health
   web site
