http://www.customs.gov/about/unique.htm


   Homeland Security

      The U.S. Customs Service is uniquely positioned at the border with
      equipment and personnel in place to perform critical tasks as part of
      homeland security.

      The U.S. Customs Service has offered any and all assistance to Governor
      Ridge as he develops plans for the Office of Homeland Security. The
      Customs Service has search authority, data systems, equipment,
      experience, and personnel unlike any other federal, state, or local law
      enforcement agency. As America's Frontline, U.S. Customs is uniquely
      positioned to bring immediate assets and personnel to homeland
      security.

   U.S. Customs P3 aircraft patrols the nations borders and can direct
   inderdiction efforts from the air to ground units for a radius of
   hundreds of miles.

      Air
      Customs aircraft, particularly the P-3s and Citation interceptors, are
      designed to locate, sort and track drug smugglers. It is a small step
      to change the focus of this mission to include anti-terrorism and
      homeland security.


   A Customs employee at the CyberSmuggling Center in Fairfax,
                                 VA,investigates cybercrimes.

      CyberSmuggling
      Customs has a well-staffed and well-equipped CyberSmuggling Center to
      perform computer forensics and track illegal cross-border activities
      through web sites and Email.


   Customs inspector searches under a passenger bus at a port of entry.

      Personnel/Training
      Customs inspectors are trained and experienced at understanding what
      "normal" looks like. This gives them the unique ability to quickly see
      something "abnormal" and act on it.

   The four-wheel drive ATV has replaced the horse for the Customs Native
   American trackers.

      Customs Special Agents are specially trained in tracking cross-border
      movements of people, goods and money.

      Customs trains foreign law enforcement officers in sorting and search
      techniques, to better train them to sort and search people and cargo at
      their own borders.

      Customs Native American trackers train foreign border officers located
      in former Soviet states in specialized techniques used to identify and
      track people who cross international borders on foot.


   A Customs canine enforcement officer and his canine in training.

      The Customs Canine Training Center is world-renowned. Customs dogs are
      trained to sniff out a variety of drugs and currency.

   A Customs inspector and canine search the trunk of a car.

      Search Authority
      Customs officers are authorized to search people, cargo, and
      conveyances that cross America's borders without a search warrant. The
      U.S. Customs Service is the only law enforcement agency with such
      authority in as many locales and situations.


   A piece of high tech gear called a "buster" is used to find density
             anomalies in boxes which may indicate illegal smuggling.

      Technology
      Customs officers use specialized computer systems to identify
      abnormalities with international movement of both cargo and passengers.
      Inspectors use these systems along with advance passenger manifest
      information to identify people arriving in the U.S. who may require
      additional scrutiny.

      Customs has developed unique technology to non-intrusively examine
      cargo and people, where and when appropriate.

   A Customs forensics scientist conducts an experiment.

      Customs forensic laboratories are among the best in the world, with
      many specialized capabilities.


   VACIS technology scans cargo at a port of entry.

      The U.S. Customs Service, with its electronic cargo processing systems
      (ACS, AES, and soon-to-be ACE), is the entity with most knowledge about
      cargo, aircraft, and vessels entering and leaving the United States at
      ports of entry. Customs is in a unique position to control vessel
      movements as conveyances require bonds and document review by the
      Customs Service.

   Customs inspector reviews cargo.

      Nearly all imported cargo is electronically manifested and transmitted
      to Customs days before a vessel arrives in the U.S.

      Many airlines electronically transmit passenger information to the
      Customs Service before an airplane arrives in the U.S.

      All photos by James R. Tourtellotte and Gerald Nino
      *click on photos for high resolution images
   Go To Top of Page
