http://npp.ninds.nih.gov/SOW/CNAudPros97SOW.html

      A Cochlear Nucleus Auditory Prosthesis Based on Microstimulation

Principal Investigator

                                                    Affiliation

                                                                                         Contract Number

                                                                                                             Link
Doug McCreery, Ph.D.  Huntington Medical Research Institutes
                                                             N01-DC8-2102

        __________________________________________________________________

   Project Title: A Cochlear Nucleus Auditory Prosthesis Based on
   Microstimulation, July 1997


   1. Background

   Research on auditory prostheses for deaf individuals is supported by
   the National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders
   (NIDCD). The cochlear implant is not a viable option for providing
   auditory information to patients with severe sensorineural hearing loss
   due to poor eighth nerve survival. Instead, investigators have
   implanted electrodes on the surface of the cochlear nucleus in patients
   with bilateral acoustic neuromas. In these patients the electrodes were
   connected to speech processors similar to those used in cochlear
   implants. Most of the patients have found that their cochlear nucleus
   implants provided essentially the same limited information that single
   channel cochlear implants provide patients with good auditory nerve
   survival.

   Using speech processors custom designed for cochlear nucleus implants,
   deaf subjects have demonstrated substantial increases in auditory
   recognition test scores and usefulness of their devices for speech
   recognition as compared to their initial speech processors. However,
   the benefits are still considerably lower than those achieved by many
   multichannel cochlear implant users.

   The NIDCD has been supporting, under contract, a study in animals and
   in human cadaver material of the feasibility of a multichannel auditory
   prosthesis based on microstimulation of the ventral cochlear nucleus
   with penetrating microelectrodes. These contract studies have shown
   that microelectrode arrays can be accurately placed in the cat ventral
   cochlear nucleus, that safe levels of stimulation exist for chronically
   stimulating this structure, and that these levels of stimulation are
   effective in activating cochlear nucleus neurons. In addition, using
   human cadaver material and computer models, surgical approaches to the
   human cochlear nucleus have been investigated and a trans-labyrinthine
   approach selected.

   A cochlear nucleus auditory prosthesis would be useful to two classes
   of deaf individuals. One is the group of individuals who have no
   auditory nerve fibers such as those who have had tumors removed from
   the 8th nerve. In addition, there is a significant group of individuals
   who have an insufficient number of auditory nerve fibers remaining to
   benefit from a cochlear implant.

   This study is a competitive renewal of a contract supported by NIDCD
   entitled "The Feasibility of a Cochlear Nucleus Auditory Prosthesis
   Based on Microstimulation". A copy of a bibliography of publications
   and quarterly progress reports resulting from this contract
   (NO1-DC-5-2105) can be obtained free of charge by writing the Neural
   Prosthesis Program, N.I.H., Federal Building, Room 8A13, Bethesda, MD,
   20892.

   2. Objectives

   The objective of this research is to complete animal testing of the
   safety and effectiveness of chronic microstimulation of the cochlear
   nucleus in animals. In addition, the development of microelectrodes and
   a microelectrode inserter for use in humans will be completed. It is
   anticipated that animal testing and microelectrode development will be
   successfully completed and feasibility testing in humans will be
   initiated.

   3. Work to be Performed

   Independently, and not as an agent of the Government, the Contractor
   shall furnish all the necessary services, qualified personnel,
   material, equipment and facilities, not otherwise provided by the
   Government as needed to perform the statement of work. The Contractor
   shall study the feasibility of an auditory prosthesis based on
   microstimulation of the ventral cochlear nucleus and initiate
   feasibility studies in deaf humans who cannot benefit from a cochlear
   implant.

   A. Using non-human, non-deafened, mammals evaluate the effects of
   chronic microstimulation of the ventral cochlear nucleus with
   penetrating microstimulating electrodes.

   (1) Fabricate or obtain individual discrete wireactivated iridium
       microelectrodes. These microelectrodes should have exposed contact
       areas ranging from 200-2000 square microns.

   (a) Determine the safe and physiologically effective ranges of
       stimulation by implanting these microelectrodes into the ventral
       cochlear nucleus and electrically stimulating for periods of at
       least 6 hours per day for at least 15 days.
       (b) Utilize electrically evoked potentials and/or single unit
       recordings to monitor the effectiveness and possible damaging
       effects of stimulation at different sites within the ventral
       cochlear nucleus. If neuronal depression occurs with continuous,
       high frequency stimuli, evaluate lower frequency stimuli,
       intermittent stimulation and methods of conditioning neurons that
       begin with low charge and/or low frequency stimuli to increase the
       tolerance of the neurons to chronic stimulation.
       (c) Examine the tissue surrounding the electrodes
       histopathologically to determine the exact location of the
       electrodes, the most likely cell types activated, and the extent of
       tissue damage due to implantation and stimulation.

   B. Obtain multiple contact site, multiprong, planar, silicon
   microelectrodes from the Project Officer [For purposes of planning,
   assume that up to 20 silicon microelectrodes will be available, each of
   which will require attachment of leads and insulation of the lead
   attachment site. Ref. - Anderson, D.J., Najafi, K., et. al.
   Batch-fabricated thin-film electrodes for stimulation of the central
   auditory system. IEEE Trans. BMEE 36:693-704, 1989.]

   (1) Implant these microelectrodes into the most promising sites in the
       ventral cochlear nucleus for at least 3 months to evaluate the
       effects of the insertion, the animal's head movement and the
       passive presence of multiple electrodes under conditions in which
       the electrode volume is a significant percentage of the tissue
       volume defined within the penetrating electrode array (e.g., up to
       1%).
       (2) Examine the tissue surrounding the arrays histopathologically
       and attempt to determine the cause of any tissue damage.
       (3) If significant tissue damage or evidence of lack of positional
       stability exists, suggest methods for the redesign of the electrode
       array in a manner to reduce these effects.
       (4) If passive implantation of the electrode probes does not
       produce unacceptable tissue damage or evidence of excessive
       electrode movement, repeat the electrical stimulation testing, as
       performed above with discrete wire arrays, but limit stimulus
       parameters to levels just below those determined to be safe.

   (a) As with the discrete wire microelectrodes, stimulate for periods of
       at least 6 hours per day for at least 15 days.
       (b) Examine the tissue within and around the arrays
       histopathologically and attempt to determine the cause of any
       tissue damage.
       (c) Examine the silicon microelectrodes for evidence of substrate
       breakage, insulation damage, or corrosion of the electrode
       contacts.

   C. Obtain fresh, unfixed human brainstems.

   (1) Insert both discrete wire and silicon planar microelectrodes as
       above into the ventral cochlear nucleus.
       (2) Evaluate the insertion forces required and any damage to the
       microelectrodes.
       (3) Determine methods of effectively penetrating the glial limitans
       without damage to the microelectrode. Suggest changes in the design
       of the microelectrode if this appears to be necessary.

   D. Prepare for microstimulation studies of the ventral cochlear nucleus
   of a deaf human based on the aforementioned animal and human cadaver
   studies.

   (1) Design human stimulation microelectrodes including specifications
       for optimal electrode contact geometry, size, spacing, number and
       orientation relative.
       (2) Design a tool or set of tools suitable for use with the above
       designed human microelectrodes that will permit safe and convenient
       insertion of microelectrodes into the ventral cochlear nucleus
       while simultaneously assuring alignment of the microelectrode
       contacts to take advantage of tonotopic gradient and the
       anticipated surviving neuron populations.
       (3) Develop methods for microelectrode insertion, for handling
       their leads, and for making interconnections between
       microelectrodes, leads and connectors.
       (4) Prepare protocols for determining the subjective perceptions of
       stimulation, range of threshold as a function of microelectrode
       position, and the minimum allowable spacing of microelectrode
       contacts and arrays.

   E. Test the microstimulation system in a deaf human who must undergo
   surgery for removal of an acoustic neuroma.

   (1) Determine the feasibility of a ventral cochlear nucleus auditory
       prosthesis by utilizing the aforementioned tools and protocols.
