http://www.fta.dot.gov/library/ftaprivacy.htm



   FTA corner of logo FTA top of logo
                      DOT logo

   FTA corner 2 Bookshop Links to Other Sites Search Grantees page Site
                Map What's New Contact FTA

   side bar graphic

                       Federal Transit Administration
                               Privacy Notice

   We collect no personal information about you when you visit our website
   unless you choose to provide this information to us. However, we
   collect and store certain information automatically. Here is how we
   handle information about your visit to our website.

   What We Collect and Store Automatically

   If you do nothing during your visit but browse through the website,
   read pages, or download information, we will gather and store certain
   information about your visit automatically. This information does not
   identify you personally. We automatically collect and store only the
   following information about your visit:
    1. The IP address (an IP address is a number that is assigned to each
       computer conected to the Internet) from which you access our
       website;
    2. The type of browser and operating system used to access our site;
    3. The date and time you access our site;
    4. The pages you visit; and
    5. If you linked to our website from another website, the address of
       that website.

   We use the information we collect to count the number and type of
   visitors to the different pages on our site, and to help us make our
   site more useful to visitors like you.

   If You Send Us E-mail

   You may choose to provide us with personal information, as in e-mail
   with a comment or question. We use the information to improve our
   service to you or to respond to your request. Sometimes we forward your
   e-mail to other government employees who may be better able to help
   you. Except for authorized law enforcement investigations, we do not
   share our e-mail with any other outside organizations.

   Links to Other Sites

   Our website has many links to our partners, especially other federal
   agencies. In a few cases we link to private organizations. When you
   link to another site, you are no longer on our site and are subject to
   the privacy policy of the new site.
