http://www.csb.gov/news/2001/n20010702.htm

   Line Separator Image Line Separator Image Line Separator Image

                      ABOUT THE CSB
              Line Separator Image
                     INVESTIGATIONS
              Line Separator Image
           CONFERENCES AND MEETINGS
              Line Separator Image
   CHEMICAL INCIDENT REPORTS CENTER
              Line Separator Image
                          CHEMLINKS
              Line Separator Image
                     E-MAIL UPDATES
              Line Separator Image
               CAREER OPPORTUNITIES
              Line Separator Image
       REPORTING CHEMICAL INCIDENTS
              Line Separator Image

   corner QUICK SEARCH corner

          (*) Web Site ( ) CIRC
   ____________
   Click Here to Submit Your Search

   corner Line Separator Image corner


   U.S. Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
   CSB - Library
   Site Navigation

   Board Intensifies Investigation of Motiva Acid Tank Failure, Fire; Four
   Additional Investigation Team Members Deployed

                                                       TRANSLATE THIS PAGE

   (Washington, DC July 25, 2001): The U.S. Chemical Safety & Hazard
   Investigation Board (CSB) has dispatched six investigation team members
   to the site of the catastrophic failure of a storage tank containing
   spent sulfuric acid at Motiva Enterprises Delaware City (Del.)
   refinery. Eight people were injured in the release and accompanying
   fire. One contract employee is still missing.

   The team will carry on work begun after the incident by a CSB
   preliminary assessment team.

   The incident occurred during July 17th maintenance operations near the
   tank prior to the tanks failure, which released spent acid and
   flammable material, which ignited. Five contract employees were
   reportedly welding on metal catwalks above the tanks.

   An estimated 660,000 gallons of acid have been released so far,
   according to a new estimate from the company. Thousands of fish and
   crabs were killed when the acid reached the Delaware River. The company
   is attempting to remove acid from the remaining tanks, which may be
   leaking their contents, and they are building additional containment
   walls in an attempt to limit further off-site environmental damage.
   Access to the immediate area surrounding the incident location has been
   limited due to continuing hazards.

   On Monday Motiva Enterprises LLC said in a letter to several government
   agencies that the collapsed tank was overdue for inspection, had open
   work order(s) to repair a hole in the tank, had been recommended for
   removal from service, and had previous vapor and liquid releases.

   Obviously the CSB is extremely interested in the conditions that
   existed prior to this catastrophic failure, said Board Member Dr.
   Andrea Kidd Taylor. Our investigation team will be looking at, among
   other items, just what was known about the condition of the tank, the
   companys hazard evaluation process and the adequacy of their
   procedures, Taylor said.

   PAGE LAST UPDATED:July 25, 2001
                              Line Separator Image
   U.S. Chemical Safety Board
   info@csb.gov                                              Home | Top of Page
                             Site Help | Search | Feedback | Contact | Library
