http://www.bettis.gov/internprogram.html


   Group shot of the Bettis summer interns and Link to Skip Navigation
                                 Links
   Bettis Laboratory
   Home
   Send Us Your Resume
   Career Opportunities
   Campus Interviews
   Summer Intern Program
   What We Do
   Why Choose Bettis
   About our Communities
   Diversity
   Employee Benefits
   FAQs

Bettis Summer Intern Program

   Each year, Bettis hires approximately fifteen students for its summer
   intern program. Laboratory internships offer students a unique
   opportunity to participate in the important work done at Bettis and a
   chance to work with some of the finest technical people in the country.

   Candidates for internship positions should be undergraduate (completed
   sophomore year) and graduate students majoring in metallurgical,
   electrical, mechanical, chemical, or nuclear engineering. Students
   majoring in computer science, material science, numerical analysis,
   chemistry, physics, mathematics, and environmental science will also be
   considered. Due to the nature of the work done at Bettis, candidates
   should have a record of high academic achievement (3.2-4.0 GPA).

   Interested candidates should fax or send a copy of their resumes and
   transcripts to Bettis by November 1 each year:

                       Bettis Atomic Power Laboratory
                                 P.O. Box 79
                           West Mifflin, PA 15122
                    ATTN: Staffing and Employee Services
                              FAX: 412-476-5363

   Interviews are conducted during January. Internships have flexible
   beginning and ending dates, but interns usually work from May/June
   through August/September.

   Questions regarding the summer intern program can be sent to the
   Program Coordinator

   All candidates must be U.S. citizens. Applicants selected will be
   subject to a Federal background investigation and must meet eligibility
   requirements for access to classified matter.

                        An Equal Opportunity Employer
