http://taskforce.ushmm.gov/membody.htm

   Membership and Functioning of the Task Force for International
   Cooperation on Holocaust Education, Remembrance, and Research

   The Task Force consists of the representatives of member countries. The
   chairmanship rotates on a voluntary basis once a year.

   I. Membership
    1. Membership of the Task Force is open to all interested countries.
    2. (a) Members must be committed to the Declaration of the Stockholm
       International Forum on the Holocaust and to its implementation in
       political practice.
       (b) New members must endorse previous decisions made by the Task
       Force.
       (c) Members are expected to subscribe to the Endowment Fund.
       (d) Members are expected to contribute to the operational
       activities of the Task Force.
    3. Decisions on the admission of new members will be made by the Task
       Force by consensus.

   II. Functioning of the Task Force
    1. The Task Force should hold no more than two plenary sessions a
       year.
    2. Task Force policy decisions will be taken in plenary or following
       the procedures set out below.
    3. Working groups will submit recommendations to the chair for Task
       Force decision. The chair will circulate such recommendations to
       all members and consensus will be assumed if no objection has been
       received within 30 days. In the absence of such consensus, the
       chair will inform the relevant working group chair for
       reconsideration.
    4. Decisions on the establishment and chairmanship of the working
       groups will be made in plenary.
    5. Not all member countries need be represented in each working group.
       Any member country wishing to subsequently join a working group
       must accept the results of the group's previous work.
    6. Working groups will report on their work to the plenary.

   Annex

   The Task Force has agreed on the establishment of the following working
   groups. The list is open to future additional working groups.

   1. Liaison Project working groups
    a. Czech Republic
    b. Lithuania
    c. Argentina
    d. Romania
    e. Slovakia

   2. Task Force Fund Working Group

   3. Information Working Group

   4. Academic Working Group

   5. Memorials Working Group

   6. Education Working Group
