http://www.chbr.noaa.gov/links.htm

   CCEHBR Banner Sidebar Sitemap

                                    Links

   Here are some links including and in addition to the ones located on
   the sidebar. These links relate to oceanography, marine science, or
   government entities. We hope you find them helpful........

                                    NOAA
                         South Carolina / Charleston
                       Research - Journals - Libraries
                    Other (Educational Resource Material)


   NOAA    (top)
   Websites - A comprehensive list of all of NOAA's web sites. Ocean
   Sciences - A list of NOAA's ocean sciences web sites
   Weather & Space - A list of NOAA's atmospheric and space related web
   sites. Earth Sciences - A list of NOAA's geology related web sites.
   Photo Library - NOAA's and NURP's photo collections. Search - NOAA's
   search engine page.
   Government - A comprehensive list  NOAA of  government sites. Coastal
   Futures 2025: An Internet Town Meeting on America's Coastal Future
   NOS Map Finder - Coastal Photography, Nautical Charts, Historical Maps,
   Environmental Sensitivity Index Maps, and much more. Tide Information -
   Predict Tides, view water levels and historical data.
   NOAA Central Library - NOAA's main library with links to other
   libraries, research collections, etc. NOAA's Coral Reef Site
   Educational Resources for Teachers and Kids - Through the Public
   Affairs site of NOAA


      South Carolina / Charleston  (top)


   Charleston Weather                                Charleston Links
   County Links                                      Metro Chamber of Commerce
   Charleston News                                   City of Charleston
   County of Charleston                              Area Colleges
   South Carolina PRT (Parks, Recreation, & Tourism)


      Research  (top)


   Search Engines
     * Internet Search Engines - Go to a list of search engines (includes
       all your favorites - lycos, infoseek, yahoo, etc.) and search away.
       For even more sites, go to searchpower.com.
     * Google.com - A good search engine for scientific/ research
       materials

   Associates Program Sites
   national-academies.org/rap
   Journals (top)
   About Mathematica
   AFSA Gateway
   American Cetacean Society Journal, Whalewatcher
   Aquatic Microbial Ecology
   BioScience Magazine
   Bulletin of Marine Science
   canadian journal
   Continental Shelf Research
   Estuarine, Coastal and Shelf Science
   Hawaiian Shell News
   ICES Journal of Marine Science
   Journal of Aquatic Ecosystem Stress and Recovery
   Journal of Coastal Conservation
   Journal of Experimental Marine Biology and Ecology
   Journal of Fish Biology
   Journal of Biological Chemistry
   Journal of the Marine Biological Association of the United Kingdom
   Journal of Marine Systems
   The Journal of Molluscan Studies
   Limnology and Oceanography
   Microfauna Marina
   Marine Ecology
   Marine Ecology Progress Series
   Marine Environmental Research
   Marine Mammals Science
   Marine Pollution Bulletin
   Marine Resources Library Home Page
   Oceanus
   NOAA Miami Library
   The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sc.
   R&D Online
   Welcome to Science Online
   What's new in Nature
   Libraries (top)
   State Library
   Charleston County Library
   Berkeley County Library
   MUSC Library
   Trident Technical College Library
   Charleston Southern Library
   College of Charleston Library
   Clemson University Library
   University of South Carolina Library
   USC School of Medicine
   Library of Congress
   NOAA Central Library
   MRL Library (CFC)


      Other  (top)


   MRL Library (CFC)

                     Department of Commerce
                                                         NOAA
   NOS               NCCOS                               Sea Grant
   NMFS              OAR                                 NIST
   MUSC              College of Charleston               Trident Tech
   Birch Aquarium    Scripps Institution of Oceanography Environmental
                                                         Protection Agency
   South Carolina Aquarium

   National Audobon Society's Living Ocean Program

   National Marine Sanctuaries

   Sustainable Seas Expedition - One of NOAAs and National Geographics
   most exciting web sites.

   Monterey Bay Interactive Dive  - An interactive view of the Monterrey
   bay area, sea life, etc!! (Requires Flash Plug  In)

   The Bridge - The most comprehensive Ocean Sciences Education and
   Teacher Resource Center on the web. Hundreds of links to lesson plans,
   research information, and student sites!

   JASON PROJECT - An interesting distance learning expedition!

   COAST (Consortium for Oceanographic Activities for Students and
   Teachers)- Another comprehensive site for teachers and students alike.

   Coral Reefs

   Educational Resources for Teachers and Kids - Through the Public
   Affairs site of NOAA

                           Last Updated: January 7, 2002
              Direct all inquiries about this page to our webmaster.
