http://www.100.nist.gov/science.htm

                               Science Impacts


      Gas lasers are among the inventions influenced by NIST research on
    spectroscopy, a technique for identifying and characterizing substances
    based on the characteristics of the emitted light, which depend on the
     energy levels of the atoms. Laser pioneers used Atomic Energy Levels,
    three volumes published by NIST between 1949 and 1958, which are still
                      considered models of authenticated,
                   verified, consistent spectroscopic data.

      From astrophysics to medicine, many fields of science benefit from
       research using synchrotrons— large, donut-shaped facilities that
    produce a unique type of radiation. The first regular experiments using
      synchrotron light were carried out in 1961 at NIST. Today, NIST’s
        synchrotron facility supports work by space scientists and the
                          microelectronics industry.

    If stranded on a desert island, at least one prominent scientist wants
      to have with him NIST’s Handbook of Mathematical Functions, first
    published in 1964 and reprinted many times by government and commercial
     publishers. So influential that it was cited every 1½ hours of each
       working day during the mid-1990s, the Handbook is currently being
                          updated in digital format.

   One of the space program’s longest-running experiments—laser reflectors
    left on the lunar surface by astronauts on three Apollo missions—was
     suggested and initially designed by a scientist at JILA, a Boulder,
    Colo., research institute jointly operated by NIST and the University
   of Colorado. The experiment defined the distance between the Earth and
                    moon to better than 2.5 cm (1 inch).

   NIST’s measurement expertise has a far-reaching impact on science. For
    instance, NIST’s world-record measurement of the frequency of laser
   light in 1972 led to a much more accurate value for the speed of light,
      thus enabling scientists to better understand the behavior of the
      universe. The new value for the speed of light then led to a more
                       stable definition of the meter.

   A Nobel Prize and a new state of matter are among the outcomes of NIST
     research to develop and apply methods of cooling and trapping atoms
     with laser light. NIST physicist William D. Phillips won the Nobel
   prize in physics in 1997, and scientists at NIST and the University of
    Colorado created the Bose-Einstein condensate, a new state of matter,
                                  in 1995.

    NIST research on materials has many practical applications, such as a
    new explanation for the sinking of the ocean liner Titanic in 1912. A
     NIST metallurgist’s microscopic analysis of 48 wrought iron rivets
   recovered from the ship’s hull have revealed flaws that made the rivets
     prone to premature failure. The collision with the iceberg may have
                    caused the rivet heads to break off.

        The forerunner of the scanning tunneling microscope, a Nobel
     Prize-winning invention used today in fields ranging from molecular
    biology to nanotechnology, was developed by a NIST physicist in 1971.
   The Topografiner was a novel microscope that surveyed surfaces in great
    detail, nearly to the level of individual atoms. It is a highlight of
                   many NIST advances in surface science.

     More than four decades of scientific achievements—from his elegant
                          theories of how materials
   transform from one phase to another, to contributions to the discovery
   of quasicrystals—distinguish the work of NIST materials scientist John
     W. Cahn, who won the 1998 National Medal of Science, the nation’s
   highest scientific honor. Cahn was recognized for his contributions to
    the fields of materials science, solid-state physics, chemistry, and
                                mathematics.

                            Date created: 2/9/01
                            Last updated: 2/9/01
                     Page maintained by Crissy Robinson.
