http://www.pueblo.gsa.gov/multimed.htm

                                  Wednesday
                              January 30, 2002


                                   Topics
   Cars -- Buying, Selling, Car Maintenance, Insurance
   Children -- Learning, Parenting
   Computers -- Buying, Getting On-line
   Education -- School Loans, Planning for College, Alternative Ways to
   Earn a Degree
   Employment -- Tips on finding a job, Occupation information, Workplace
   rights, Pensions
   Federal Programs -- Social Security, Medicare, Veteran's Benefits,
   Buying Government Property
   Food -- Nutrition for better health, Safe food handling and preparation
   Health -- Drugs and Health Aids, Dieting and Nutrition, Medical
   Problems
   Housing -- Financing and Sales, Home Maintenance
   Money -- Credit, Saving, Investing, Retirement Planning, Protecting
   your money
   Small Business -- Starting a Business, Small Business Administration,
   Patents and Copyrights
   Travel -- Foreign Travel Requirements, National Parks, Travel Advice,
   Flying rights and advice
   And more... -- Having trouble finding something? Check here or go to
   our search!

                                  Resources
   Consumer Action Website -- Tips, advice, listings of what to do and who
   to call with a consumer problem
   Image of a button linking to the National Contact Center
   Image of a button linking to FirstGov for Kids
   Recalls -- Federal and Private Sector Recalls on Products
   Scams and Frauds -- A listing of the latest scams and recalls announced
   by Federal Agencies and Consumer Groups

   Subscribe to FCIC
    news and media
    e-mail updates!

   Image linking to FirstGov "Your first click to the U.S. Government"




                              FCIC Home Page
   Search Page In The News Page Press Room Page FAQ Page Shop Site Links
   Page About Us Page Fun Stuff
   Animated promotion image
                                   space

                                 Fun Stuff
   Take a walk down memory lane with our artistic catalog covers, our
   award-winning, TV ads, our creative, print ads, and our exciting radio
   sound bites. If that's not enough excitement for one day, check out
   some of the quirky people who work here at FCIC.
                                   space

   Animated puzzle pieces Puzzled Going to pieces? Kick back and relax
   with our jigsaw puzzle. See if you can get the pieces of our
   award-winning catalog cover back together.
   space
   Raccoon watching TV Public Service Ads (PSAs) We have 30 second TV
   spots available for those of you who can't wait to see these really
   cheesy, I mean clever, PSA's. For those of you who like to indulge in
   staring hypnotically at the ceiling for lengthy periods of time, we
   have provided you with 60 second versions to download!
                      70's     80's     90's     00's
   space
   Print Ads Here are samples of the Federal Consumer Information Center's
   renowned Print Ads... as seen in today's most-read magazines and
   newspapers. Hey folks, these are even more exciting then FCIC's catalog
   covers!
   space
   Word Search Everything will become clear to you while doing this
   puzzle. While we're not promising Nirvana here, have fun and see which
   FCIC words you can find in this jumble of letters.
   space
   Man reading magazine Catalog Covers Ima Fake, from the Pueblo Art
   Critics Association, exclaims, "FCIC's Catalog Covers are pure genius!
   FCIC's use of bold, masterful strokes and astonishing color take the
   art world by storm. A must see for art lover's everywhere!"
   space
   Sound Bites
   Want to hear a catchy little tune that is a real crowd pleaser? Check
   out the Happy Facts song in our Sound Bites Collection.
   space
   Three men in a row Our Nutty Staff Wacky doesn't begin to describe some
   of the folks around here!

     Check out Our Nutty Staff Archives

   space
   Site Map - Text Version -  Privacy Policy - Security Statement
   space

   This service is provided by the Federal Consumer Information Center of
     the U.S. General Services Administration. If you have a comment or
                question, e-mail us at catalog.pueblo@gsa.gov
     [gsa_logo.gif]

   [invisible.gif]
