http://www.avapcd.ca.gov/inthenews.shtml

               Antelope Valley Air Quality Management District

   [toplinks_01.gif] [toplinks_02.gif] [toplinks_03.gif] [toplinks_04.gif]
   [toplinks_05.gif] [toplinks_06.gif] [toplinks_07.gif] [toplinks_08.gif]
   [toplinks_09.gif]

   [bottomlinks_01.gif] [bottomlinks_02.gif] [bottomlinks_03.gif]
   [bottomlinks_04.gif] [bottomlinks_05.gif] [bottomlinks_06.gif]

      [ Airwaves Publication Archives ]



      [liner.gif]

   November 15, 2001
   For further information contact:
   Violette Roberts, Antelope Valley APCD  (760) 245-1661, ext. 6104

   ANTELOPE VALLEY CONTINUES CLEAN AIR TREND IN 01
   Local Air Quality Flourishes While Nearby Communities Brace for Tighter
   Regs

   Lancaster -- As some nearby communities struggled to hold on to air
   quality gains achieved over the last decade, the Antelope Valley
   continued to bolster its reputation as a clean air mecca in 2001,
   chalking up its 12^th consecutive summer free of Stage 1 smog
   episodes.

   A Stage 1 episode is declared by the Antelope Valley Air Pollution
   Control District (AVAPCD) when ozone levels average .20 parts per
   million (ppm) for an hour, thus rendering air quality unhealthful.  The
   highest ozone level recorded locally during the 2001 smog season -
   which spanned from May to October - was a .15 ppm measured at the
   AVAPCDs Lancaster air monitoring station on July 2.

   Exceedances of the federal ozone standard recorded to date also attest
   to the continuation of a long-term trend of air quality improvements
   Valley-wide: this summer, only three exceedances of the federal .12 ppm
   1-hour standard were recorded within the AVAPCDs boundaries Although
   that number represents a slight increase from the summer of 2000 - when
   only two exceedances were recorded - this years end-of-smog-season
   total represents a 63% decline from 1991, when eight days surpassed the
   federal ozone standard within the Antelope Valley.

   The Antelope Valleys 2001 ozone readings also compared favorably with
   those measured in the nearby South Coast Air Basin (SoCAB), which has
   also made remarkable strides toward reducing smog over the past decade:
   in 1991, 130 federal ozone exceedances were recorded within the SoCAB,
   which includes the metropolitan Los Angeles area; by October of 2001,
   that number of exceedances had fallen to just 36.

   Air quality improvements in the L.A. basin translate into cleaner air
   for the Antelope Valley, based on the two regions proximity to one
   another.  Along with less air pollution wafting into the Valley from
   Los Angeles, control measures implemented by local businesses and lower
   emitting new vehicles are also credited with helping to make the
   Valleys air quality among the cleanest in Southern California.

   In contrast, recent media stories have reported that other California
   cities - such as Bakersfield and Fresno - are beginning to rival the
   metropolitan Los Angeles regions former claim to the nations most
   polluted air.  While control measures designed to bring the San Joaquin
   Valley into compliance with the federal health-based standard for ozone
   has reduced the incidence of  unhealthful air in the region - from 51
   federal exceedances in 1991, to 28 as of October 2001 - progress toward
   this goal was not sufficient to preclude the U.S. Environmental
   Protection Agency (USEPA) from reclassifying the area from a Serious to
   a Severe Ozone Nonattainment Area last October 23.

   While neighboring areas brace themselves for the possibility of tougher
   air regulations, the AVAPCD continues to offer its regulated industry
   lower compliance costs than several nearby air districts, as well as
   good air quality. Based on our exceptional clean air record, the AVAPCD
   is able to extend reasonable permitting costs and quick permit
   turnaround with a minimum of red tape to Antelope Valley businesses,
   commented Frank Roberts, Chairman of the AVAPCDs Governing Board,
   adding  Were proud of our common sense approach to air quality
   regulation, which not only fosters economic development in the Valley,
   but also protects our legendary clean air.


      [liner.gif]

   October 26, 2001
   For further information contact:
   Violette Roberts, Antelope Valley APCD  (760) 245-1661, ext. 6104
   Rich Campbell, USDA/NRCS (661) 945-2604

    DUSTBUSTERS ANNOUNCE LATEST MILESTONES IN DUST CONTROL STUDY

   Lancaster Since the early 1990s, wind and abandoned desert farms have
   provided fertile breeding ground for dust bowl conditions in the Mojave
   Desert, but ongoing research by the Antelope Valley Dustbusters is
   unearthing new ways of keeping the dust down on the farm.

   The latest findings of the research project - launched in 1991 for the
   purpose of finding solutions to fugitive dust blowing from disturbed
   and abandoned agricultural fields in the Antelope Valley - were
   announced today during a press conference and informational meeting in
   Lancaster, sponsored by the Antelope Valley Dustbusters.  The
   Dustbusters task force is a multi-agency fugitive dust research team
   comprised of representatives from the USDA Natural Resources
   Conservation Service (USDA/NRCS), the University of
   California/Riverside (UCR), Southern California Edison (SCE), the
   Antelope Valley Air Pollution Control District (AVAPCD), Desert
   Research Institute, the University of California/San Diego, the South
   Coast Air Quality Management District, the L.A. Worlds Airport and the
   Antelope Valley Resource Conservation District

   Now in its third phase, the research projects current focus is on using
   irrigation and plant shelters to revegetate and stabilize disturbed
   soil surfaces; applying soil suppressant chemicals to barren fields to
   halt soil erosion, and erecting wind fences to curb the movement of
   windblown dust and sand.  During todays conference, representatives
   from several stakeholder organizations including Rob Farber of SCE and
   Dave Grantz of UCR presented progress reports on the Dustbusters
   success in utilizing these innovative mechanisms as solutions to
   airborne dust, which not only reduces visibility, but can also
   aggravate asthma and other respiratory conditions in sensitive
   individuals.

    As a result of the Dustbusters efforts, Antelope Valley residents will
   be breathing even cleaner, healthier air in the near future, said Bret
   Banks, Operations Manager for the AVAPCD, which recently presented its
   annual award for Achievement In Reducing Emissions (AIRE) to
   Dustbusters co-founder Rich Campbell, Conservationist for the
   USDA/NRCS, for his extensive work as the Antelope Valleys unofficial
   dust control ambassador.

   Research in the projects first two phases focused on using both seeds
   and seedling plants to revegetate barren fields, and installing wind
   fences in sandy areas not conducive to revegetation.  The current and
   final - phase of the dust control research project is expected to
   extend through 2003.


      [liner.gif]

   September 27, 2001
   For further information contact:
   Violette Roberts, Community Relations Manager
   (760) 245-1661, ext. 6104


   AIR DISTRICT TO OFFER GRANTS FOR CLEANER HEAVY-DUTY ENGINES
   Bidders Conference Scheduled for October 4

    Lancaster  Up to $572,449 in grants will soon be available for local
   projects which reduce smog-forming emissions from heavy-duty vehicles
   and equipment, officials at the Antelope Valley Air Pollution Control
   District (AVAPCD) have announced.

    Starting on October 15, the local air agency will begin accepting
   applications for funding under the Carl Moyer Program, which awards
   grants for the incrementally higher cost of cleaner heavy-duty vehicles
   and equipment such as on-road vehicles, off-road vehicles, marine
   vessels, locomotives, stationary agricultural pumps, forklifts, and
   airport ground support engines.  Beginning this year, auxiliary power
   units used to reduce emissions from truck idling are also eligible for
   grant funding.

   Should total requests for eligible projects exceed available funds by
   October 19,  applications will be subject to competitive review.
   Otherwise, eligible projects will be funded on a first-come,
   first-served basis.

   On October 4 at 1:30 P.M., the AVAPCD will hold a Bidders Conference at
   their Lancaster offices, located at 43301 Division Street, Suite 206.
   During this Conference, District staff will provide an overview of the
   Carl Moyer Program and be available to answer questions about the
   application process.

   Under the Carl Moyer Program, the California Air Resources Board
   provides grant monies to participating air districts for local
   distribution.  For each $2 received from the state, local air districts
   must provide at least $1 in match funding.

   The Call for Projects documents are available on the AVAPCDs website at
   www.avapcd.ca.gov, or by contacting the District at (661) 723-8070.



      [liner.gif]

   September 18, 2001
   For further information contact:
   Violette Roberts, Community Relations Manager
   (760) 245-1661, ext. 6104

   AIR DISTRICT PRESENTS AIRE AWARDS

   Lancaster -- A local conservationist, a Lancaster-based home builder
   and a nationwide water distribution company were recognized for their
   pollution prevention efforts today, as the Antelope Valley Air
   Pollution Control District (AVAPCD) presented its 2000/2001 awards for
   Achievement in Reducing Emissions (AIRE).  The awards were presented
   during the local regulatory air agencys September Governing Board
   meeting, which was held at their Lancaster headquarters.

   The recipients of the 2000/2001 AIRE Awards are:

   Richard Campbell, Conservationist for the U.S. Department of
   Agricultures Natural Resources Conservation Service, for his ongoing
   contributions to dust mitigation in the Antelope Valley.  Over the
   years, Campbell has come to be recognized as the Valleys unofficial
   dust control ambassador.  His vast experience with agriculture, farming
   techniques and local farming practices have made Campbell a well-known
   and valuable resource in determining the most cost effective remedy for
   a specific dust control problem.

   In 1997, Campbell became one of the founders of the Antelope Valley
   Dustbusters Task Force - a collaborative effort between two
   universities, state and local air agencies and several local
   organizations - which was formed for the purpose of developing
   cost-effective dust control strategies specific to the High Deserts
   climate.  Since its inception, the Task Force has fostered a number of
   dust control strategies which have reduced blowing dust and stabilized
   erodible farm land throughout the Antelope Valley.  Campbell was
   nominated for the AVAPCDs highest honor by Sherry Lasagna, Senior
   Deputy for Fifth District County Supervisor Mike Antonovich;

   Lancaster-based Greystone Homes/Somervale Estates, for exceptional dust
   mitigation efforts throughout the construction process.  In recognition
   of the potential hazards of blowing dust caused by grading and
   earth-moving machinery, Greystone insures that all of its contractors
   are thoroughly educated about proper dust control practices.  Moreover,
   Greystone carefully monitors contractors to insure compliance with its
   exacting dust prevention policies and trains all employees in dust
   abatement techniques.  As a result, Greystone has earned a reputation
   as one of the most environmentally-friendly builders in the Antelope
   Valley.  The AIRE award was accepted by Project Manager Tom Hay;

   Danone Waters of North America (DWNA), for establishing a fleet of
   dedicated propane-fueled delivery trucks in the Antelope Valley.  Over
   the past seven years, DWNA   - one of the countrys leaders in home and
   office water delivery - has placed more than 400 liquid propane gas
   (LPG) trucks into service throughout the country.  Currently, five of
   the 15 delivery trucks operated by the distributor in the Antelope
   Valley are powered by low-emission propane fuel.   Moreover, DWNA has
   committed to replacing the remaining 10 delivery trucks with LPG fueled
   vehicles by the end of this month, with funding assistance from the
   AVAPCD.  This change-out will result in an annual reduction of 47.5
   tons of nitrogen oxide emissions within the region.  The AIRE award was
   accepted by Brent Wahl, Southern California Fleet Manager for
   DWNA.

   The AIRE Awards recognize Antelope Valley entities which demonstrate an
   exceptional commitment to clean air through the development of
   voluntary activities or projects which reduce or prevent air pollution
   within the AVAPCDs jurisdiction.   According to the Districts

   Air Pollution Control Officer Chuck Fryxell, By recognizing individuals
   and organizations who go the extra mile to reduce air pollution,  the
   AVAPCD hopes to inspire others to follow their lead in  implementing
   innovative and effective ways of protecting air quality.  The AIRE
   Awards are presented annually by the AVAPCD in conjunction with
   National Pollution Prevention Week, September 17-23.


      [liner.gif]

      August 21, 2001
      For further information contact:
      Violette Roberts, Community Relations Manager
      (760) 245-1661, ext. 6104

   AIR DISTRICT TAPS RANGEL TO ADVANCE RIDESHARE PROGRAM

      Lancaster The local air district and the regional transportation agency
      have joined forces to promote the clean air benefits of ridesharing in
      the Antelope Valley.  The vehicle for this partnership will be none
      other than Alfonso Al Rangel, longtime Account Executive for the
      Southern California Association of Governments (SCAGs) Rideshare
      Program, who has signed on to perform double duty as a Business Liaison
      for the Antelope Valley Air Pollution Control District (AVAPCD).

      Under the terms of an 11-month service contract between SCAG and the
      AVAPCD, Rangel will serve as the primary contact for participants in
      the AVAPCDs Transportation Outreach Program, which requires Antelope
      Valley businesses with 250 or more employees to conduct commute surveys
      among their employees every two years, and submit the results to the
      air district.  The  AVAPCD uses the survey data to calculate vehicle
      emissions reduced as a result of the employees use of alternative
      commute modes - such as car pooling and public transit - and is
      required to report the results to the U.S. Environmental Protection
      Agency.

       As part of his duties, Rangel will also assist with the AVAPCDs
      community outreach and education efforts during local events, and
      provide support to the Antelope Valley Clean Cities Coalition, which
      promotes alternate fuel usage and is administered through the AVAPCD.

       An employee of the Southern California Rideshare program for the past
      17 years, Rangel spends much of his working and free time developing
      strategies and building relationships designed to promote carpooling,
      vanpooling, new transit routes, bikeways and Park n Ride facilities in
      North Los Angeles County.   Rangels tireless commitment to ridesharing
      as a means of protecting air quality earned him the South Coast Air
      Quality Management Districts Clean Air Award in 1997 and the AVAPCDs
      Achievement in Reducing Emissions (AIRE) Award in 1999.

       Elected officials, local business people and the community-at-large
      have long regarded Rangel as the authority on local transportation and
      air quality issues.  According to AVAPCD Operations Manager Bret Banks,
      it is Rangels solid reputation in this arena that mobilized air
      district officials to contract for his services.  Als name is
      synonymous with ridesharing and alternate modes of transportation
      throughout the Antelope Valley, stated Banks, adding that Rangels
      expertise and the relationships he has cultivated during his years with
      SCAG enhances the legitimacy of our Districts programs and our capacity
      to reduce air pollution from vehicles, which account for more than 50%
      of the regions air emissions.

       While Rangel will continue to be housed primarily at the Southern
      California Rideshare office in the Palmdale Cultural Center, he will
      also maintain office space at the AVAPCDs Lancaster headquarters, which
      are located at 43301 Division Street, Suite 206.  For more information
      on the AVAPCDs Transportation Outreach Program, or to contact Rangel,
      call (661) 723-8070.


      [liner.gif]

   July 26, 2001
   For further information contact:
   Violette Roberts, Community Relations Manager
   (760) 245-1661, ext. 6104

   AVAPCD SEEKS NOMINATIONS FOR AIRE AWARDS

   Lancaster -- The Antelope Valley Air Pollution Control District
   (AVAPCD) is soliciting nominations for its third annual awards for
   Achievement in Reducing Emissions (AIRE), air quality officials have
   announced.  The AIRE awards recognize outstanding contributions towards
   the reduction and/or prevention of air pollution within the Antelope
   Valley.

   Eligible candidates include local businesses, industries, schools,
   agencies, organizations and individuals who demonstrate an exceptional
   commitment to clean air through the development of voluntary air
   pollution reduction and/or prevention programs.   Nominated
   entities/projects must be located within the AVAPCDs jurisdictional
   boundaries, and nominated individuals must reside within the District.
   Candidates may be self-nominated or nominated by a second party.

   Last year, two local entities were awarded the AVAPCDs highest honor.
   The Antelope Valley Transit Authority (AVTA) was recognized for its
   Bicycle Racks on Buses program, while Lockheed Martin Aeronautics
   Company of Palmdale was recognized for developing an innovative
   integrated chemical management system which automates and ensures
   precise record keeping.

   Nominations must be postmarked or received by Friday, August 13 at 5:00
   P.M.  The AIRE Awards will be presented during National Pollution
   Prevention Week, September 17-23.   To receive a Nomination Packet, or
   for more information, call (661) 723-8070.

      [liner.gif]

   May 10, 2001
   For further information contact:
   Violette Roberts, Community Relations & Education Manager
   (760) 245-1661, ext. 6104

   AIR DISTRICT TO HOST CONTEST WINNERS AWARD CEREMONY

   Lancaster -- The Antelope Valley Air Pollution Control District
   (AVAPCD) will be hosting an awards ceremony for the winners of its
   fourth annual Clean Air Month Poster Contest on Tuesday, May 15 at 3:30
   PM.  The ceremony will be held at the AVAPCDs Lancaster headquarters.

   The ceremony will honor first, second and third place winners in four
   age categories between 4 and 18, who will be awarded $100, $75 and $50
   savings bonds, respectively, courtesy of contest co-sponsors Lockheed
   Martin Aeronautics Company/Palmdale and the Air & Waste Management
   Associations Mojave Desert Chapter.  Additionally, contest winners
   whose entries are the result of a classroom project will have their
   teachers recognized alongside them during the event.

   National Clean Air Month is observed each year during May, for the
   purpose of elevating public awareness about the importance of clean
   air, and each persons responsibility in protecting air quality.   The
   theme of this years Clean Air Month poster contest was Spare the Air in
   the New Millennium.

   PHOTO OPPORTUNITY:   The twelve winners of the Clean Air Month Poster
   Contest and their teachers are expected to be on hand to receive their
   awards.   Members of the AVAPCD Governing Board are scheduled to make
   the award presentations.  Michael Haro, Environmental Manager for
   Lockheed Martin Aeronautics Company/Palmdale, and AVAPCD Operations
   Manager Bret Banks will also assist with the presentations.

   LOCATION: AVAPCD headquarters are located at 43301 Division Street,
   Suite 206, at Avenue K-6 in Lancaster.

      [liner.gif]

   April 9, 2001
   For further information contact:
   Violette Roberts, Community Relations Manager
   (760) 245-1661, ext. 6104

   AIR DISTRICT SEEKS POSTER CONTEST ENTRIES

   Lancaster The Antelope Valley Air Pollution Control District (AVAPCD)
   invites local children to celebrate National Clean Air Month this May
   by entering its fourth annual poster contest.

   "Spare the Air in the New Millennium is the theme of this years Clean
   Air Month Poster Contest, which is again co-sponsored by Lockheed
   Martin Aeronautics Company/Palmdale and the Air & Waste Management
   Associations Mojave Desert Chapter. First and second place winners in
   the following age categories will be awarded $100 and $75 savings
   bonds, respectively: 4-7; 8-11 and 12-18.  Third and fourth place
   winners will receive $50 savings bonds.  Additionally, contest winners
   whose entries are the result of a classroom project will have their
   teachers recognized alongside them during an awards ceremony scheduled
   for early May, and have their posters featured in the local air agencys
   annual calendar.

   Entries must be postmarked or received at the AVAPCDs offices by April
   30 at 5:00 PM.  Posters must be drawn free-hand on 8 ½ by 11" paper,
   and include the contestants name, address, age and phone number on
   their back side.  Posters may be mailed or hand delivered to the AVAPCD
   at 43301 Division St., Suite 206, Lancaster, CA 93535.  For a complete
   set of rules or for more information, contact the AVAPCD at (661)
   723-8070.

      [liner.gif]

   January 29, 2001
   For further information contact: Violette Roberts, Community Relations
   Manager (760) 245-1661, ext. 6104

   ANTELOPE VALLEY EARNS CLEAN CITIES DESIGNATION - Lancaster - The U.S.
   Department of Energy (DOE) has approved the Antelope Valley Air
   Pollution Control Districts (AVAPCDs) application to expand the areas
   Clean Cities Coalition to encompass the entire Antelope Valley, and
   endorsed its five-year plan for expanding the regions alternative fuel
   vehicle (AFV) market, officials at the local air agency have announced.

   Originally conceived in 1995 as the Lancaster Clean Cities Coalition,
   the re-designated Antelope Valley Clean Cities Coalition now represents
   the cities of Lancaster and Palmdale, as well as unincorporated regions
   of Los Angeles County within the Antelope Valley. The local coalition
   boasts more than 50 stakeholders, including the two cities within its
   boundaries, L.A. County, local utility companies, numerous local
   businesses, and the AVAPCD.

   The Antelope Valley Clean Cities Coalition is one of 79 coalitions
   nationwide which have voluntarily joined to support the DOEs Clean
   Cities Program, a locally based government/industry partnership which
   aims to expand the use of alternatives to gasoline and diesel fuel. To
   this end, Clean Cities Coalitions throughout the country work actively
   to increase the number of AFVs and refueling stations in their
   respective regions, educate the public and advance legislation and
   incentives which promote AFVs.

   With the support of the City of Lancaster, the DOE asked the AVAPCD to
   assume leadership of the local Clean Cities Program in 2000. As lead
   agency, the AVAPCD was required to coordinate the renewal process for
   the existing Clean Cities designation, which was set to expire by the
   end of 2000. To this end, the AVAPCD contracted with Thomason and
   Associates - a Las Vegas- based consultant that recently completed the
   City of Las Vegas Clean Cities redesignation plan - to develop a
   five-year program plan for expanding AFV usage in the Antelope Valley.
   Soon after, the AVAPCD began holding stakeholder meetings for the
   purpose of gauging ongoing interest in AFVs, recruiting additional
   stakeholders and soliciting input to the program plan.

   The plan - which was approved by the DOE January 19 - is the mechanism
   by which individual stakeholders formalize their commitment to
   transitioning to alternative fuels. Goals identified as part of the
   Antelope Valleys plan include increasing the number of natural gas,
   propane and electric charging stations in the region; increasing the
   number of stakeholders from private fleets to 30%; and exploring
   funding sources for Clean Cities activities.

   According to AVAPCD Chairman and City of Lancaster Mayor Frank Roberts,
   the Antelope Valleys redesignation as a Clean City region is an
   incentive to businesses considering relocation to the Antelope Valley.
   Being recognized for the quality of our air gives us an edge in
   attracting businesses, commented Roberts. The designation carries
   positive economic and redevelopment implications. Roberts added that he
   is proud that the Clean Cities designation - which was unique to the
   City of Lancaster - now extends over the entire region.

   The next meeting of the Antelope Valley Clean Cities Coalition is
   scheduled for March 15 at 1:30PM at AVAPCD headquarters, which are
   located at 43301 Division Street, Suite 206, Lancaster. For more
   information, call (661) 723-8070.

      [liner.gif]

   ANTELOPE VALLEY WRAPS UP ANOTHER SUMMER STAGE 1-FREE - Chalk up another
   summer of clean air for the Antelope Valley: for the 11th consecutive
   year, not a single Stage 1 smog episode occurred anywhere within the
   AVAPCDs boundaries.

   A Stage 1 episode is declared when ozone levels average .20 parts per
   million (ppm) for an hour, thus rendering air quality unhealthful. The
   highest ozone level recorded locally during the 2000 ozone season -
   which spanned from May to October - was .14 ppm, measured at the
   AVAPCDs monitoring site in Lancaster.

   Exceedances of the federal and state ozone standards also reflected a
   long-term trend of air quality improvements during the summer of 2000.
   This year, only two exceedances of the federal .12 ppm 1-hour standard
   were recorded within the AVAPCD. Although this summers high
   temperatures contributed to a slight increase in federal exceedances
   from last summer - none were recorded during 1999 - the Antelope
   Valleys end-of-season total represents a 71% reduction from a decade
   ago, when 7 days exceeded the federal standard District-wide.

   Not surprisingly, the air breathed by Antelope Valley residents also
   compared favorably with that breathed by residents of the nearby South
   Coast Air Quality Management District (SCAQMD) this summer. As of
   October 26, 40 federal ozone exceedances had been logged within the
   SCAQMDs boundaries, which include the urban portions of Los Angeles,
   San Bernardino and Riverside Counties.

   Meanwhile, 35 exceedances of the more stringent .09 ppm state ozone
   standard were recorded in the AVAPCD this summer. This represents a 33%
   reduction from the 52 state exceedances logged District-wide in 1990.

   According to Chuck Fryxell, Air Pollution Control Officer for the
   AVAPCD, the Antelope Valleys air quality progress is expected to
   continue into the new millennium. Now that Stage 1 episodes are
   virtually nonexistent in the Antelope Valley, the AVAPCD is focused on
   continuing to partner with local industry and the public to make smog a
   thing of the past, commented Fryxell.

      [liner.gif]

   DISTRICT PRESENTS AIRE AWARDS - The Valleys transit authority and a
   local aerospace company were recognized for their efforts to enhance
   local air quality, as the AVAPCD presented its 1999/2000 awards for
   Achievement In Reducing Emissions (AIRE) on September 19, during its
   regular Governing Board meeting.

   The AIRE Awards recognize District constituents who demonstrate an
   exceptional commitment to clean air through the development of
   voluntary activities or projects, which reduce or prevent air pollution
   in the Antelope Valley. According to the AVAPCDs Air Pollution Control
   Officer Chuck Fryxell, By recognizing individuals and organizations who
   go the extra mile to protect air quality, the District hopes to inspire
   others to follow their lead in implementing innovative and effective
   ways of reducing air pollution.

   The recipients of the 1999/2000 AIRE Awards are as follows:

   The Antelope Valley Transit Authority (AVTA), for their Bicycle Racks
   on Buses program. In July of 1999, the AVTA installed bike racks on 25
   transit buses that serve the communities of Lancaster, Palmdale, Quartz
   Hill, Littlerock and Lake Los Angeles. During the first two months of
   the free program, Antelope Valley residents boarded an average of 200
   bikes per month on AVTAs busses. To the agencys delight, that number
   has skyrocketed to a current average of 2,500 bikes a month. Assuming
   that two boarded bikes equal one car left at home, it is estimated that
   the Bicycle Racks on Buses program takes over 1,250 cars - and
   countless air pollution emissions - off the road a month.

   Lockheed Martin Aeronautics Company Palmdale, for the development of an
   integrated chemical management system designed to automate and ensure
   precise cradle to grave record keeping. With more than 4,200 chemical
   products actively in use at the Palmdale facility, insuring compliance
   with federal, state and local chemical usage reporting requirements can
   be onerous, as well as detrimental to the environment, if performed
   improperly. To address this problem, LM-Aero developed a sophisticated
   record keeping system which features computerized tracking of all
   product constituents, rigorous environmental health and safety review
   for new chemicals, and daily usage reports which carefully quantify and
   help minimize emissions. With the presentation of the 1999/2000 AIRE
   Awards, LM-Aero became the first entity to earn the AVAPCDs highest
   honor twice: the aerospace company received its first AIRE Award during
   last years inaugural presentation ceremonies.

   The AIRE Awards are presented annually in conjunction with National
   Pollution Prevention Week, September 18-24

      [liner.gif]

   MOBILE SOURCE GRANT RECIPIENTS ANNOUNCED - The AVAPCD Governing Board
   has awarded $226,875 in Carl Moyer Program funding to two projects
   aimed at reducing emissions from heavy-duty vehicles and equipment used
   within the Antelope Valley

   Following a review of two eligible proposals submitted in response to a
   Call for Projects issued last September, the AVAPCDs Mobile Source
   Reductions Committee recommended both proposals for funding. During
   their November meeting, the Governing Board voted to award $205,625 to
   Waste Management of Antelope Valley, for the incremental cost of five
   new liquefied natural gas trucks, and $21,250 to the City of Lancaster,
   to cover a fraction of the incremental cost of a new compressed natural
   gas dump truck.

   Because the total cost for funding both projects slightly exceeded the
   $225,000 available for grant awards, the AVAPCDs Governing board
   designated $1,875 in vehicle registration fee funds to the Carl Moyer
   Program, thus allowing the District to fully fund both projects.

   The Carl Moyer Program provides grants for the incremental cost of
   cleaner heavy duty vehicles and equipment, such as on road vehicles,
   off road vehicles, marine vessels, locomotives, stationary agricultural
   pumps, forklifts and airport ground support engines. The Program calls
   for funds to be issued locally by participating air districts, which
   must provide at least $1 in match funding for every $2 of program
   funding received from the California Air Resources Board.

      [liner.gif]

   AVAPCD SPEARHEADS CLEAN CITIES REDESIGNATION DRIVE - The AVAPCD is
   poised to become a driving force behind the Antelope Valleys transition
   to alternate fuels in the new millennium. To this end, 28
   representatives of local agencies and businesses and AVAPCD staff
   convened for the kick-off meeting of the Antelope Valley Clean Cities
   Coalition, a public-private network which aims to expand the use of
   alternative fuels in the Antelope Valley.

   Originally conceived in 1995 as the Lancaster Clean Cities Coalition,
   the re-formed Coalition will be spearheaded by the AVAPCD and include
   representatives from the cities of Lancaster, Palmdale, Los Angeles
   County, the California Energy Commission, utility companies and private
   businesses with vehicle fleets. The purpose of the November 29 meeting
   was to re-introduce these and other potential stakeholders to the Clean
   Cities Coalition, and gauge their ongoing interest in alternative fuels
   and vehicles. Participants also learned about the process and
   requirements for renewing the regions Clean Cities designation, which
   expires the last day of 2000.

   To insure the renewal deadline is met, the AVAPCD has contracted with
   Thomason & Associates, Inc. of Las Vegas to develop a five-year program
   plan that targets the expansion of alternative fuel vehicle growth in
   the region. A major component of the plan involves bringing local
   businesses and agencies into the process through a public private
   partnership, whose members are committed to expanding alternative fuel
   vehicles (AFV) usage in their operations.

   The Antelope Valley Clean Cities Coalition is one of 80 coalitions
   nationwide, which have voluntarily joined to support the U.S.
   Department of Energys (DOEs) Clean Cities Program. The mission of the
   DOEs Clean Cities Program is to expand the use of alternatives to
   gasoline and diesel fuel in order to reduce dependence on imported oil,
   lessen air pollution, stimulate the economy and increase public
   awareness about the benefits of alternative fuels, such as compressed
   natural gas (CNG) and electricity. To this end, Clean Cities Coalitions
   throughout the country actively work to increase the number of AFVs and
   refueling stations in their respective regions, and to advance
   legislation and incentives that promote AFVs. Incentives may include
   grant funding to offset the somewhat higher cost of alternative fuel
   vehicles, and promotional advantages associated with having a business
   located in a region that has earned the coveted Clean Cities
   designation.

   According to AVAPCD Governing Board Chairman Frank Roberts, the time is
   right to renew the regions commitment to clean, alternative fuel
   technologies. In light of the recent rise in fuel prices and the
   dramatic air quality improvements this region has achieved, the
   Antelope Valley is strategically positioned to lead Southern
   Californias transition to alternative fuels, commented Roberts, adding
   that the AVAPCD began laying the groundwork for this transition last
   year, when it awarded $851,111 in vehicle registration fee grants
   towards the construction of two CNG stations in the Antelope Valley.

   The next meeting of the Antelope Valley Clean Cities Coalition is
   scheduled for Thursday, January 11, at 1:30 PM, at the AVAPCDs
   Lancaster headquarters. For more information, call (661) 723-8070.

      [liner.gif]

   RIDESHARE WEEK WINNERS ANNOUNCED - In honor of California Rideshare
   Week, the AVAPCD sponsored its inaugural Rideshare Week Contest for
   employees of companies and organizations participating in the Districts
   Rideshare Outreach Program.

   Entrants were required to pledge to use an alternate commute mode at
   least once during the week of October 2-6. A total of 78 winners were
   drawn randomly from eligible entries. Congratulations to Grand Prize
   winner Kim Hemperly, an employee of the City of Palmdale, who won a
   $250 gift certificate from the Antelope Valley Mall. The AVAPCD thanks
   the many businesses and organizations that generously donated prizes
   for the Rideshare Week Contest.

      [liner.gif]

   CDAWG Conference A Huge Success - Representatives from six air
   districts, the California Air Resources Board, military installations
   and regulated sources converged on the Edgewater Resort Hotel in
   Laughlin, Nevada for the fall conference of the California Desert Air
   Working Group (CDAWG) held September 13-15.

   Sponsored by the Mojave Desert Chapter of the Air & Waste Management
   Association, the CDAWG conference highlighted achievements in the
   reduction of mobile emissions, with presentations on such varied topics
   as electric vehicle technology, the proposed California-Nevada
   Interstate Maglev Project (super train) and the Interstate Clean
   Transportation Corridor. Additionally, AVAPCD Operations Manager, Bret
   Branks, reported on the status of Carl Moyer Funds.

   A highlight of the conference was a tour of the Mohave Generating
   Station in Laughlin. This station is the only one in the United States
   using slurry to produce electricity. Slurry is coal ground into fine
   powder and mixed with water. The slurry is then piped from the Navajo
   Nation reservation near Flagstaff, Arizona to the facility in Laughlin.
   Once the water is removed, the coal powder is then converted to
   electricity. Participants enjoyed informational videos and a tour of
   the stations small museum before trekking over to the facility itself.
   Earplugs and hard hats were required, and it was 112 degrees, but after
   making it to the top of the structure it was well worth the discomfort:
   the view of the desert from the top is both beautiful and awesome.

   The grand finale of the conference was a one-hour boat cruise of the
   Colorado River. During the cruise, L. L. Stretch Mayfield was presented
   a certificate commemorating his years at the helm of the Cement
   Industry Environmental Consortium (C.I.E.C.) Stretch has retired to his
   new home in Montana but will be missed by those who had the pleasure of
   working with him over the years.

   Overall, 61 representatives from 42 organizations attended this
   exciting and informational conference. The consensus of all was that it
   was a tremendous success and theyre already anticipating the next one.

    [ Air Quality ] • [ In The News ] • [ Events ] • [ Board & Meetings ] •
                          [ Kid's Section ] • [ Rules ]
      [ Applications/Forms ] • [ District Information ] • [ Transportation
                              Programs ] • [ Links ]

                  Antelope Valley Air Quality Management District
                           43301 Division St. Suite 206
                                Lancaster, CA 93539
                         661-723-8070 • 661-723-3450 Fax
