http://www.mtc.ca.gov/whats_happening/press_releases/rel188.htm

   Skip Navigation Links
   MTC What's Happening

   [spacer_blue.gif] [bar_contents.gif]
                     Main Sections
                     Home
                     About MTC
                     DataMart
                     Links
                     Projects
                     Library
                     What's Happening
                      - Agendas
                      - Awards
                      - Leg. Update
                      - Meeting Schedule
                      - Press Releases
                     Special Focus
                     Commuter Corner
                     Legislative Update
                     Blueprint
                     Transactions Online
                     Jobs & Contracts

   [bar_search.gif] ____________
   info@mtc.ca.gov
   [spacer_blue.gif] [spacer.gif]

      Press Releases
      For Immediate Release

   Federal Transit Administration Chief Announces Public Test of TransLink®
   Smart Card

                                                                Jennifer Dorn
       Federal Transit Administrator Jennifer L. Dorn was the keynote speaker

      Contact:
      Randy Rentschler, 510.464.7858, rrentschler@mtc.ca.gov
      Russell Driver, 510.817.3252, rdriver@mtc.ca.gov

      SAN FRANCISCO, Calif., Nov. 30, 2001 . . .The dream of stitching
      together the Bay Areaís twenty-plus transit systems into a seamless,
      traveler-friendly network moved a step closer to reality today when the
      visiting chief of the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) announced
      the launch of a key public test of the TransLink® universal
      transit-fare card. FTA Administrator Jennifer L. Dorn joined officials
      from the Metropolitan Transportation Commission -- sponsor of the
      TransLink® project -- and several transit agencies at the Caltrain
      terminal in San Francisco to symbolically kick off a pilot program that
      will involve 4,000 volunteer transit riders and a half-dozen transit
      operators over a six-month period beginning early in 2002.
      Jennifer Dorn
      Dorn used her TransLink® ticket to ride Muni Metro to the press
      conference at the Caltrain station.

      Ms. Dorn got into the spirit of the occasion by using a TransLink® card
      to travel on the Muni Metro light-rail "N" line from the Embarcadero
      station in downtown San Francisco to the Caltrain station at 4th and
      King streets. In prepared remarks, Ms. Dorn echoed the sentiments of
      U.S. Transportation Secretary Norman Mineta, who recently described the
      TransLink® project as "visionary," and "the kind of creative thinking
      this region will need." She added that "I hope that this model will be
      tried by other metro areas with complex transit services."
      The new TransLink® fare-payment system uses "smart card" technology.
      Transit riders will purchase a plastic card embedded with a computer
      chip that they "load" with a dollar value, stored rides or monthly
      passes. They then need only flash the credit-card-sized card -- without
      even having to remove it from their wallets or purses -- in front of an
      electronic reader device located on transit vehicles, in stations or at
      faregates, and the correct fare value will be deducted automatically
      from the card. TransLink® will factor in a host of variables when
      calculating fares, including different fare structures for every
      transit operator, transfers, routes, lengths of trips, time of day and
      discounts for students or elderly and disabled riders.

      Jennifer Dorn
      Dorn "tags" her TransLink® card at the Caltrain station. Also ready to
      tag their cards are (left to right) MTC Vice Chair Steve Kinsey, Alex
      Mehran, president and CEO of Sunset Development Company, and Michael
      Scanlon, general manager of SamTrans.

      "TransLink® ushers in a new era of rider convenience by eliminating the
      need to carry exact change, crisp dollar bills or multiple fare
      instruments," said Marin County Supervisor and MTC Vice Chair Steve
      Kinsey. "TransLink® will make it easier and more attractive for
      commuters to use public transit, particularly when their route involves
      two or even three different systems and crosses a couple of county
      lines. The more attractive transit is, the more people are going to use
      it, and the fewer cars are going to be on the road."
      During the public-demonstration phase announced today, the TransLink®
      card will be tested on selected routes and at certain stations of six
      of the regionís largest transit agencies: AC Transit, BART, Caltrain,
      Golden Gate Transit, San Francisco Muni and (Santa Clara) Valley
      Transportation Authority. Together, these six systems offer a sampling
      of the Bay Areaís diverse modal mix, everything from ferries to
      streetcars to buses to commuter rail. All together, 18 rail stations,
      31 bus lines, three ferry terminals, two light-rail lines and 50
      transfer points have been outfitted with specialized TransLink®
      card-reader equipment. The 4,000 volunteers who will be participating
      in the pilot program were recruited because they routinely travel on
      these TransLink®-equipped routes.
      The TransLink® system also will benefit transit agencies. "A central
      computer system will handle all transactions and distribute payments to
      transit agencies on a daily basis," noted MTC Vice Chair Kinsey. "And
      since the system will record every transaction, the agencies will have
      a comprehensive database to help them with planning, marketing and
      financial accounting."
      To get ready for the upcoming public test, several hundred transit
      agency employees have been testing the TransLink® card during their
      regular commutes to and from work in recent weeks. This smaller-scale
      "pre-test," which is still ongoing, gives TransLink® project staff and
      participating transit agencies a chance to get some hands-on experience
      in operating the new fare-collection system before it goes "live" for
      the public volunteers in 2002. After the success of the larger pilot
      program is determined, MTC and the participating agencies plan to
      install TransLink® equipment on all 21 Bay Area transit systems, which
      together carry in excess of 1.6 million riders a day.
      MTC has contracted with Motorola, Inc. and ERG Limited to implement and
      operate the TransLink® fare-collection system. MTC is the
      transportation planning, coordinating and financing agency for the
      nine-county Bay Area.

                                        ###

                            Previous | Contents | Next

                                        TOP

                           Links to main sections
   Site Index | Home | About MTC | DataMart | Links | Projects | Library |
                      What's Happening | Special Focus

                   Metropolitan Transportation Commission
                101 Eighth Street, Oakland, California 94607
                   Phone: 510.464.7700, Fax: 510.464.7848
         rel188.htm, updated 30-November-01, Pam Grove, © 2001 MTC
