http://t14web.lanl.gov/Research/TDAC2000/menikoff.00.pdf

   Theoretical Division - Self-Assessment Special Feature Detonation
   Theory & Application, T-14 April 2000 Granular Explosives and
   Initiation Sensitivity Ralph Menikoff Plastic-bonded explosives are
   heterogeneous materials additional degree of freedom from porosity.
   Continuum consisting of explosive crystals held together with a
   mechanical simulations that resolve individual grains binder material.
   In addition, a couple of percent void are being used to develop a
   better understanding of how faction is unavoidable in the manufacturing
   process. The the hot spot distribution varies with mechanical stimuli.
   voids play a crucial role in the initiation sensitivity. When subjected
   to a compressive wave, the voids collapse giving rise to localized
   peaks in the temperature field called hot spots. Reaction rates are
   extremely sensitive to piston temperature. As a consequence, hot spots
   dominate the initiation of a detonation wave. Weak preshocks can close
   the Figure 1: Piston driven compaction wave in granular HMX. The voids
   and desensitize an granular bed has a porosity of 19%. The piston is
   impulsively explosive. In contrast, damage started at the right
   boundary with a velocity of 1000 m/s. Black to an explosive increases
   the lines indicate interface between grains. The temperature field is
   porosity and greatly increases displayed at a time of 1.4 µs after the
   start of the piston. ignition sensitivity. Damaged explosives are
   frequently involved in accidents. Predicting initiation sensitivity The
   result of a piston driven compaction wave in a is an important issue
   for explosive safety. granular bed is shown in Figure 1. Initially,
   grains of the explosive HMX 0.14 mm in diameter are randomly A granular
   explosive is a suitable model, albeit distributed and tightly packed to
   yield a porosity of simplified, for a damaged explosive. It captures
   the ~19%. The piston at the right boundary is given a velocity of 1000
   m/s. The high-stress concentrations generated at the contact between
   grains cause the grains Mesoscale simulations are a tool to deform
   plastically and squeezes out the pores. The for studying explosive
   initiation temperature field shows that hot spots are subgrain in that
   is dominated by physical size and occur around the contact surfaces
   between processes occurring at spatial grains. Figure 2 shows the
   temperature profile in the and temporal scales too small to direction
   of wave propagation. The average profile represents a shock wave. The
   rapid rise at the shock measure with currently avilable front is a
   couple of grains wide. The change across the experimental techniques.
   front satisfies the shock-jump conditions set by the conservation laws.
   However, the heterogeneities give rise to fluctuations with peak
   temperatures significantly dominant features of a damaged material; a
   greater than the average. The temperature distribution heterogeneous
   length scale from the grain size and an (mass fraction vs. temperature)
   shown in Figure 3 better Los Alamos Theoretical Division -
   Self-Assessment - Special Feature characterizes the fluctuations. Hot
   spots correspond to the tail of the distribution. For this relatively
   strong wave, the hot spots include 30% of the mass behind the front.
   Prompt initiation, within a few microseconds, would occur if reaction
   were included in the simulation. For explosive applications, the
   feasible cell size is much greater than the scale of a grain. The
   limited resolution necessitates using a homogenized constitutive
   relation for the explosive. Furthermore, temperature fluctuations on
   the scale of a grain are eliminated by the homogenization and burn
   models are needed to account for the effect of hot spots on the
   reaction rate. Mesoscale simulations are a tool for gaining an
   understanding of the physics at small spatial and temporal scales
   needed to develop better burn models. More details can be found in the
   reports "Compaction Wave" [1] and "Initiation Sensitivity" [2]. Figure
   2: Temperature profile (dashed lines correspond to the minimum and
   maximum values). [1] R. Menikoff and E. Kober, "Compaction waves in
   granular HMX," Tech. Rep. LA-13546-MS, Los Alamos National Laboratory,
   1999. Also, available online from LANL Library. [2] R. Menikoff,
   "Granular explosives and initiation sensitivity," Tech. Rep.
   LA-UR-6023, Los Alamos National Laboratory, 1999. Available on line,
   http://t14web.lanl.gov/Staff/rsm/Papers/IMA Initiation.pdf. Figure 3:
   Temperature distribution behind A U. S. Department of Energy Laboratory
   rtm@lanl.gov compaction wave (2.5 mm < x < 3.5 mm). This paper is a
   portion of LA-UR-00-1. Los Alamos
