http://www.vamhcs.med.va.gov/balto/baltimore.htm

   Baltimore VA Medical Center Blank image

                                      Working Together for a Healthier You

   VA Maryland Health Care System
   Navigation Image Map

                                                           skip navigation

                                                                  Downtown
                                                                 Baltimore

   Fort Howard

   Perry Point

   Loch Raven

   Outpatient
   Clinics

   Eligibilty &
   Enrollment

   Important
   Phone Numbers

   Statistics &
   Workload

   Academic
   Affilation

   Management
   Directory

   Home Page

   Blank image
   Baltimore VA Medical Center

   10 North Greene Street · Baltimore, Maryland 21201
   Phone: 1-800-463-6295 · Medical Benefits and Eligibility:
   1-800-463-6295 extension, 7317

   As one of the most modern heath care facilities in the country, the
   Baltimore VA Medical Center offers veterans state-of-the-art medical
   technology, clinical services, and research programs. The medical
   center is home to the world's first filmless radiology department,
   which allows heath care providers to have nearly instant access to
   patient radiology images from anywhere in the facility. The medical
   center's "patient friendly" design features plant-filled atriums,
   natural light from overhead skylights, and comfortable patient rooms
   and waiting areas.

   The Baltimore VA Medical Center is the acute medical and surgical care
   facility for the VA Maryland Health Care System and offers a full range
   of inpatient, outpatient, and primary care services. The medical center
   maintains an active affiliation with the University of Maryland School
   of Medicine in the sharing of staff, resources, and technology.

   Having the number one funded research and development program in the VA
   system, including studies in diabetes, immunology, oncology, virology,
   cellular biology, and infectious diseases, enhances the medical
   center's ability to provide state-of-the-art medical techniques and
   treatments to Maryland's veterans. The medical center's Geriatric
   Research, Education & Clinical Center, one of only 19 in the VA system
   nationwide, conducts research on the prevention of stroke and
   cardiovascular disease through exercise, smoking cessation, and
   nutrition therapy in older veterans.

                                                       Back to top of page

   Programs and Services
   Specialized programs and services include:
     * primary care services through a team approach
     * a home-based primary care program
     * a variety of community based health care programs
     * a women veterans evaluation and treatment program
     * emergency care services
     * a comprehensive cancer program
     * a refractory congestive heart failure program
     * a full-service cardiac catheterization lab
     * magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), mammography, and computed axial
       tomography (CAT) scan
     * medical, surgical, and cardiac intensive care units
     * inpatient and outpatient rehabilitation services
     * comprehensive evaluation and rehabilitation of patients with
       peripheral arterial disease
     * an outpatient spinal cord injury support program
     * a same day surgery program
     * a state-of-the-art endoscopy suite
     * a regional neurosurgery program
     * inpatient and outpatient mental health care services
     * an inpatient and outpatient mental health trauma recovery program
     * an outpatient substance abuse detoxification and treatment program

                                                       Back to top of page

   Click here to see Primary Care Teams

                                                       Back to top of page

   Directions to the Baltimore VA Medical Center

   To reach the Baltimore VA Medical Center, you need to remember only a
   few simple directions. From Interstate 95, take the exit for Interstate
   395 to Downtown Baltimore and exit onto Martin Luther King, Jr.
   Boulevard. At the fourth traffic light, turn right onto Baltimore
   Street. Take Baltimore Street to the second traffic light and turn left
   onto Paca Street. Take Paca Street to the first traffic light and turn
   left onto Fayette Street. Take Facet Street through the first traffic
   light and the entrance to the medical center's parking garage is a
   half-block down on the left on Fayette past the intersection with
   Greene Street.

Medical Center Address:


    VA Maryland Health Care System
    Baltimore Medical Center
    10 North Greene Street
    Baltimore, Maryland 21201



Medical Center Phone Number

   The phone number for the Baltimore VA Medical Center is (410) 605-7000
   and the toll free number is 1-800-463-6295.

                                                       Back to top of page


   If you have trouble accessing information on this site, please contact
                                     the
      webmaster (vamhcswebmaster@med.va.gov) or call Regina DeSimone at
                        410-605-7000, extension 6718.
