http://www.kids.gov/k_money.htm




                               [smlsearch.gif]
                                   Search
    "" Logo image linking to FirstGov for Kids. Logo image linking to the
                     Federal Consumer Information Center
   Arts - Careers - Computers - Environment - Fighting Crime - Fun Stuff -
         Geography - Global Village - Government - Health - History
    Homework - Money - Music - Plants and Animals - Recreation - Safety -
                  Science and Math - Space - Transportation
                               Separator image
   Image of dollars and coins Money Have you ever asked "Why do we have to
   pay taxes?" Do your parents pull their hair out around April 15th? Find
    out the answer to this and many more fun and exciting questions with
                             these links below.
                               Separator image

                              Government Sites
               (these sites are not maintained by kids.gov *)
    Item FDIC Learning Bank - The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation's
      kid's site is the place to go for a kid-sized explanation of the
    Federal Reserve System. (Something adults could use too.) Don't look
     for games. It's just the facts here. If your child can handle more
   detail, click on the graduation hats within the text. They're links to
                      adult versions of the same info.
      Item H.I.P. Pocket Change - Looking for cool games, amazing time
   travel, and coin-collecting tips? You're in the right place. Just visit
        the U.S. Mint's site and discover a pocketful of treasures!
   Item Money Central Station - Learn how and where money is made and play
                        a number of different games.
   Item Savings Bonds for Kids - Do you know what Savings Bonds are? Maybe
    you got one as a present or maybe your parents are using them to save
    for college? This website will help you understand what they are, how
    they work and it includes a poster contest, games and fun facts about
                            U.S. Savings Bonds.
   Item Social Security Kids Stuff - Social Security is you piggy bank for
    the future. You save by making payments of part of your pay to Social
    Security as you work. Later when you can't work Social Security will
           pay you back every month with a Social Security check.
    Item STAWRS Kids - This site explains why you pay taxes in a fun and
                           easy to follow format.
      Item Taxi Interactive - An online 'zine for understanding taxes.
    Item Treasury's Page for Kids - Take a tour, learn about the agency's
   history, the history of money, how to detect counterfeit, savings bonds
                               and much more.

                             Organization Sites
               (these sites are not maintained by kids.gov *)
      Item Life Smarts - The Ultimate Consumer Challenge - The National
     Consumers League operates LifeSmarts a flexible classroom or group
    activity that teaches teens to be smart and responsible consumers and
    citizens. It is open to all teens in the 9th through 12th grade. The
    content and competition questions focus on five key areas of consumer
    knowledge that teens need to know to function effectively in today's
                                marketplace.
   Item The AIE Savings Calculator - Cool calculator that shows how much a
               kid can save over 10, 25, or until retirement.
     Item The Mint - Find out what it takes to start your own business,
    learn how to save and invest your money wisely, or try out some cool
   quizzes and financial tools. You can also learn about your role in the
                     economy and how to make a budget!
                               Separator image
    About this site - Sitemap - Contact Us - Kid's Privacy - Disclaimer -
                                 Link Policy
                               Separator image
