http://propulsid.laed.uscourts.gov/Orders/order5.pdf

   COPY IN CHAMBERS UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT EASTERN DISTRICT OF
   LOUISIANA . . MDL,NO. 1355 IN RE: PROPULSID . . PRODUCTS LIABILITY
   LITIGATION : SECTION: L . . . . JUDGE FALLON . . MAG. JUDGE AFRICK THIS
   DOCUMENT RELATES TO ALL CASES : . . PRETRIAL ORDER NO. 5
   (Confidentiality) Whereas, Rule 26(c) of the Federal Rules of Civil
   Procedure provides for the issuance of protective orders limiting the
   disclosure of discovered information in appropriate circumstances. NOW,
   THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT: 1. This Order applies to all
   documents and other products of discovery, all information derived
   therefrom and including, but not limited to, all copies, excerpts or
   summaries thereof, obtained by the plaintiffs or defendants pursuant to
   the requirements of any court order, any requirements of self-executing
   discovery, requests under Rule 34 of the Federal Rules of Civil
   Procedure, answers to requests for admissions under Rule 36 ofthe
   Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, I NOV 2 9 2000 I Procedure, answers
   to requests for admissions under Rule 36 ofthe Federal Rules of Civil
   Procedure, answers to interrogatories under Rule 33 of the Federal
   Rules of Civil Procedure, documents subpoenaed under Rule 45 of the
   Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, and transcripts of depositions under
   Rule 30 or Rule 3 1 ofthe Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (hereinafter
   "Discovery Material"). With respect Discovery Material produced
   pursuant to a Fed.R.Civ. P. 45 Subpoena, only the person or entity
   subpoenaed can make a confidentiality designation with respect to such
   Discovery Material. 2. (4 Prior to giving access to Discovery Material
   to any person designated as confidential pursuant to paragraph 3 of
   this Order, counsel for the party intending to disclose such
   confidential Discovery Material shall furnish a copy of this Order to
   the person being given access. The person being given access shall
   execute an Agreement to Maintain Confidentiality in the form annexed
   hereto as Exhibit A. Counsel making such disclosure shall retain
   executed Agreements to Maintain Confidentiality during the pendency of
   this litigation. Should an instance occur where documents subject to
   this order are publicly disseminated, counsel for both plaintiffs and
   defendants shall file all executed Agreements to Maintain
   Confidentiality with the court for, in camera, review. The requirement
   to execute an Agreement to Maintain Confidentiality shall not apply to
   the Court, counsel of record for a party, members or employees of
   counsel's law firm, or in-house counsel for a party. 09 The parties
   have agreed that Discovery Material designated as confidential under
   paragraph 3 hereof will be used only for the purposes of this
   litigation and any state court litigation relating to the health
   effects of Propulsid, provided that the court and parties in any such
   state court litigation agree to be bound with respect to such Discovery
   Material by the terms of this Order [or by terms of a Protective Order
   of comparable scope entered in such state court litigation]. 2 3. G-9
   Persons producing "Confidential Discovery Material" may designate as
   confidential Discovery Material containing sensitive commercial
   information, financial or business plans, trade secrets, or
   proprietary, sensitive research and development information, or
   personal information of a sensitive nature including medical records
   and sensitive financial information and as may be confidential under
   Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 26 (c) (7) ("Confidential Discovery
   Material"). Publicly issued or disseminated documents may not be
   designated Confidential Discovery Material. Documents given to the
   designating party by a third party may not be designated Confidential
   Discovery Material unless that third party is a consultant, contractor,
   attorney retained by the producing party or other party with whom there
   is a confidential relationship, and the documents otherwise meet the
   definition of Confidential Discovery Material. Where such a retainer
   agreement or confidentiality agreement exists, such document shall be
   maintained in such a way to preserve it for in-camera inspection by the
   Court or Magistrate upon motion of the non- producing party. (b) With
   respect to certain information defendants deem highly sensitive because
   it constitutes trade secrets, or which defendants are prohibited by
   statute or regulation from revealing, defendants may redact such
   information, provided that they maintain a full and complete copy
   (without such redactions) for review by the Court or Magistrate should
   the PSC elect to challenge such redactions. It is understood that the
   Court or Magistrate may initially elect to review a representative
   sample of such materials selected by the parties. w The designating
   party shall provide a log of all documents and materials designated as
   Confidential Discovery Material or redacted pursuant to subparagraph 3
   (b) which shall identify the Bates numbers, the type of document, the
   source of the document, the date of the 3 document and whether the
   document is an attachment to another document. Alternatively, where the
   designating party produces an index to its produced documents, that
   index shall indicate in the appropriate field whether the Discovery
   Material is confidential. (4 The designation by the designating party
   that any document, answer to interrogatory, or deposition testimony is
   Confidential Discovery Material shall constitute a representation that
   such documents have been reviewed by counsel of record or an attorney
   designated by counsel of record and counsel of record believes there is
   a good faith basis for such designation. 4. Confidential Discovery
   Material, if in writing, shall have the following language stamped on
   the face of the writing, or shall otherwise have such language clearly
   marked: SUBJECT TO PROTECTION ORDER MDL NO. 1355 (EDLA) Such stamping
   or marking will take place prior to production by the producing person,
   or subsequent to selection by the receiving party for copying, but
   prior to the actual copying if done expeditiously. The stamp shall be
   affixed in such manner as not to obliterate or obscure any written
   matter. In the case of deposition testimony, confidentiality
   designations shall be made within thirty (30) days after the transcript
   has been received by counsel for the deponent, and shall specify the
   testimony being designated confidential by page and line number(s).
   Until the expiration of such 30 day period, the entire text of the
   deposition, including all testimony therein, shall be treated as
   confidential under this Order. In the event that the producing person
   inadvertently fails to designate Discovery Material as confidential in
   this or any other litigation, it may make such a designation
   subsequently by 4 notifying all parties to whom such Discovery Material
   was produced, in writing as soon as practicable. After receipt of such
   notification, the parties to whom production has been made will treat
   the designated Discovery Material as having been designated
   confidential, subject to their right to challenge such designation in
   accordance with paragraph 8 hereof. 5. In the event that any question
   is asked at a deposition which a party or non-party asserts calls for
   confidential information, such question shall nonetheless be answered
   by the witness fully and completely, to the extent required by law.
   Counsel for the deponent shall, either at the deposition or within 30
   days after receipt of the transcript thereof by said counsel, notify
   all counsel on the record or in writing, that the information provided
   in such answer is confidential. 6. Confidential Discovery Material may
   not be used by any person receiving such Confidential Discovery
   Material for any business or competitive purposes and shall be used
   solely for the purposes of this litigation, and such state court
   litigations as authorized by paragraph 2(b) hereof, and for no other
   purpose without prior written approval from the court or the prior
   written consent of the producing person. All persons receiving or given
   access to Confidential Discovery Material in accordance with the terms
   of this Order consent to the continuing jurisdiction of the Court for
   the purposes of enforcing this Order and remedying any violations
   thereof. 7. (a) Subject to subparagraphs (b), (c) and (d) below,
   Confidential Discovery Material shall not be disclosed to anyone other
   than the outside and in-house attorneys engaged in the conduct of the
   litigation described in paragraph 2(b), and to the employees of such
   outside attorneys directly involved in the conduct of such litigation.
   04 For purposes of this litigation, outside attorneys may disclose
   Confidential Discovery Material to retained experts (including persons
   directly employed by such experts) and 5 to retained consultants and to
   any person expected to testify at trial or at a deposition to the
   extent that the Discovery Material relates to his/her proposed
   testimony. Further, outside attorneys may disclose Confidential
   Discovery Material to clerical and data processing personnel not
   regularly employed by the parties or their counsel involved in the
   production, reproduction, organizing, filing, coding, cataloging,
   converting, storing, retrieving and review of Confidential Discovery
   Material to the extent reasonably necessary to assist a party or its
   counsel in these proceedings. When so doing, the disclosing outside
   attorneys and the recipients of the Confidential Discovery Material
   shall comply with the terms of paragraph 2(a) hereof. (4 All outside
   and in-house counsel and the employees and assistants of outside
   counsel receiving discovery shall take all steps reasonably necessary
   to prevent the disclosure of Confidential Discovery Material other than
   in accordance with the terms of this Order. Such Confidential Discovery
   Material shall be made available only to those persons outside counsel
   deems necessary in the conduct of the litigation. (4 Confidential
   Discovery Material may be disclosed, summarized, described,
   characterized or otherwise made available in whole or in part to
   non-parties (provided the recipients of the Confidential Discovery
   Material shall comply with the terms of paragraph 2(a) hereof): (0 to
   the extent reasonably necessary to investigate the facts of the case,
   prepare a defense or prosecute a claim; (ii) during testimony or
   preparation therefor, to the extent reasonably necessary in testifying
   or preparing to testify; or (iii) to administer and establish a
   document depository in connection with these proceedings. 03 Disclosure
   of Confidential Discovery Material other than in accordance with the
   terms of this Order may subject the disclosing person to such sanctions
   and remedies as the Court may deem appropriate. 8. At any time during
   the litigation, any party may challenge the designation of such
   material as "Confidential" by written notice to the person that
   produced such Confidential Discovery Material. Within 20 days of such a
   challenge, the person that produced such material shall then respond in
   writing, setting forth the reasons that person believes the
   Confidential Discovery Material should be treated as "Confidential." If
   the parties, upon meeting and conferring, are thereafter unable to
   agree on whether particular Confidential Discovery Material shall be
   treated as "Confidential," the producing party must move the court,
   within 30 days of the written notice challenging the designation of the
   material as "Confidential," for an order pursuant to Rule 26(c) and
   shall have the burden of establishing "good cause" pursuant to that
   rule. The obligation to bring the first motion shall fall upon the
   producing party. The challenging party shall be obliged to file the
   second motion, if any. Thereafter, the obligation to bring subsequent
   motions shall alternate in the same way, but at all times, the burden
   of establishing "good cause" shall remain with the producing party.
   Nothing in the preceding paragraph shall prevent any receiving party
   from challenging any designation on an expedited basis. 9. This Order
   shall not prevent any persons bound hereby from making use of
   information or documents without the restrictions of this Order if the
   information or documents are lawfully in their possession and/or
   lawfully obtained through discovery in this litigation or in any other
   litigation in which such information was not designated as
   "confidential" or subject to a protective order or court order as
   "confidential" or subject to confidential treatment, or where there has
   been a final judgment declaring that such information or documents are
   not confidential. 10. Any Confidential Discovery Material that is filed
   with the Court, and any pleading, motion or other paper filed with the
   Court containing or disclosing any such Confidential Discovery Material
   shall be tiled under seal and shall bear the legend: "THIS DOCUMENT
   CONTAINS CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION COVERED BY A PROTECTIVE ORDER OF THE
   COURT AND IS SUBMITTED UNDER SEAL PURSUANT TO THAT PROTECTIVE ORDER THE
   CONFIDENTIAL CONTENTS OF THIS DOCUMENT MAY NOT BE DISCLOSED WITHOUT
   EXPRESS ORDER OF THE COURT." Said Confidential Discovery Material
   and/or other papers shall be kept under seal until further order of the
   court; however, said Confidential Discovery Material and other papers
   tiled under seal shall be available to the Court and counsel of record,
   and to all other persons entitled to receive the confidential
   information contained therein under the terms of this Order. 11. (a)
   Nothing in this Order shall prevent or restrict counsel for any party
   in any way from inspecting, reviewing, using or disclosing any
   Discovery Material produced or provided by that party, including
   Discovery Material designated as confidential. (W Nothing shall prevent
   disclosure beyond that required under this Order if the producing party
   consents in writing to such disclosure, or if the Court, after notice
   to all affected parties, orders such disclosure. @> No disclosure
   pursuant to this paragraph 11 shall waive any rights or privileges of
   any party granted by this Order. 12. This Order shall not enlarge or
   affect the proper scope of discovery in this or any other litigation,
   nor shall this Order imply that Discovery Material designated as
   confidential under the terms of this Order is properly discoverable,
   relevant or admissible in this or any other litigation. 13. The entry
   of this Order shall be without prejudice to the rights of the parties,
   or any of them, or of any non-party, to assert or apply for additional
   or different protection at their discretion. 14. All counsel of record
   in this litigation shall make a good faith effort to comply with the
   provisions of this Order and to ensure that their clients do so. In the
   event of a change in counsel, retiring counsel shall fully instruct new
   counsel of their responsibilities under this Order. 15. The terms of
   this Order shall survive and remain in effect after the termination of
   MDL No. 1355 and all lawsuits which now or hereafter are consolidated
   therein. The parties shall take such measures as are necessary and
   appropriate to prevent the public disclosure of Confidential Discovery
   Material, through inadvertence or otherwise, after the conclusion of
   MDL No. 1355. 16. This Order does not restrict or limit the use of
   Confidential Discovery Material at any hearing or trial. Nothing in
   this Order, however, shall prevent any party from seeking an
   appropriate protective order to govern such use of Confidential
   Discovery Material at a hearing or trial. BY THE COURT: UNITED STATES
   DISTRICT JUI$E
