http://info.texas.gov/page.jsp?language=eng&pageId=legal

    Skip to content

   Texas Online
                En Español Accessibility Privacy Help


   About Texas
   Business and Consumer Services
   Education and Training
   Employment and Labor
   Environment and Natural Resources
   Government
   Health and Family Services
   Laws and Criminal Justice
   Licenses, Permits, Registration, and Public Records
   Online Services
   Regional and Community Resources
   Travel and Recreation

   Search


   ________       GO
   Advanced Search


   Statewide Search TRAIL

   Quicklinks > I want to... FAQs
   Home : Legal Notices


   Legal Notices

   Any trademarks that appear on this site are the property of their
   respective owners, who may or may not be affiliated with, connected to,
   or sponsored by TexasOnline. TexasOnline respects the intellectual
   property of others. If you believe that your work has been copied in a
   way that constitutes copyright infringement, please contact us.

   PLEASE NOTE that users of this web site are responsible for checking
   the accuracy, completeness, currency and/or suitability of all
   information. TexasOnline makes no representations as to the accuracy,
   completeness, currency, or suitability of the information provided via
   this web site. The State of Texas disclaims any express or implied
   warranty in providing for public use its computer system and any
   materials, information, graphics, products, or processes contained
   therein. It makes no warranty, express or implied, nor assumes any
   responsibility in the use of this service or its contents for its
   accuracy, completeness, currency, its use for any general or particular
   purpose, nor that such items or use of such items would not violate or
   infringe rights of others. This service is provided on a strictly "as
   is" basis.

   The State of Texas specifically disclaims any and all liability for any
   claims or damages that may result from providing the Web site or the
   information it contains, including any Web sites maintained by third
   parties and linked to the TexasOnline site. TexasOnline may provide
   links to Web sites maintained by third parties if it is determined that
   they may be of interest to users. TexasOnline neither endorses the
   content, products, services, or viewpoints expressed by the linked
   sites, nor assumes any responsibility for the content of these linked
   web sites. TexasOnline makes no effort to independently verify, and
   does not exert editorial control over, information on pages outside of
   the "texasonline.state.tx.us" domain.

   Upon leaving TexasOnline and linking to an external site, the policies
   governing TexasOnline no longer apply and users are subject to the
   external site's policies. Questions and concerns regarding the
   information or services provided by a linked site must be directed to
   the entity or individual responsible for that site, rather than to
   TexasOnline.

   Reference herein to any specific commercial products, process or
   service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not
   necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or
   favoring by the State of Texas, and shall not be used for advertising
   or product endorsement purposes.

   The materials are provided for public use on computer systems located
   within the State of Texas and for the use and benefit of citizens of
   Texas. Any person choosing to use this system or seeking access to
   information or materials on this system is subject to Texas
   jurisdiction. Any dispute arising therefrom shall be decided under the
   laws and in the courts in Texas.

   Contact Us About Us

   Public Information Act Link Policy Legal
