http://www.whitehouse.gov/news/releases/2002/01/20020128-13.html


   Skip to Content text only go to search President News Vice President
   History & Tours First Lady Search
   Welcome to the White House.
   Government Kids Only Espanol Contact Privacy Policy SiteMap
   __________ Search


   West Wing Connections
   Policies in Focus
   America Responds to Terrorism
   Homeland Security
   Economy & Budget
   Education Reform
   Medicare
   Social Security
   More Issues
   En Español

   News
   Current News
   Press Briefings
   Proclamations
   Nominations
   Executive Orders
   Radio Addresses
   Discurso Radial
   (en Español)
   Appointments
   Application
   Photos
   Photo of the President speaking to a Joint Session of Congress
   Photo Essays
   An American Response
   Standing for the Flag

    Home > News & Policies
                          Printer-Friendly Version

                                                     For Immediate Release
                                             Office of the Press Secretary
                                                          January 28, 2002

   President Meets with Afghan Interim Authority Chairman
   Remarks by the President and Chairman of the Afghan Interim Authority
   Hamid Karzai
   The Rose Garden

         Fact sheet Joint Statement on New Partnership Between U.S. and
   Afghanistan
         Fact sheet Fact Sheet

   1:58 P.M. EST

   THE PRESIDENT:  It's a great honor for me to welcome to the White House
   the Chairman of the Afghan Interim Authority, Hamid Karzai. "Chairman
   Karzai, I reaffirm to you today that the United States will continue to
   be a friend to the Afghan people in all the challenges that lie ahead,"
   said the President in his remarks during their joint press conference.
   White House photo by Paul Morse.

   Mr. Chairman, welcome.

   CHAIRMAN KARZAI:  Thank you very much.

   THE PRESIDENT:  I also want to welcome the ministers of the Interim
   Authority who have accompanied him to Washington.  Chairman Karzai is a
   determined leader, and his government reflects the hopes of all Afghans
   for a new and better future; a future free from terror, free from war,
   and free from want.

   The United States strongly supports Chairman Karzai's interim
   government.  And we strongly support the Bonn agreement that provides
   the Afghan people with a path towards a broadly-based government that
   protects the human rights of all its citizens.

   The Afghan people have already taken the first steps along this path by
   committing to rid their country of al Qaeda terrorists, and remnants of
   the Taliban regime who supported the terrorists.  Yet, even as the war
   against terrorism continues, the world has also begun to help the
   Afghan people win the peace they deserve.

   The United States is committed to building a lasting partnership with
   Afghanistan.  We'll help the new Afghan government provide the security
   that is the foundation for peace.  Today, peacekeepers from around the
   world are helping provide security on the streets of Kabul.  The United
   States will continue to work closely with these forces and provide
   support for their mission.  We will also support programs to train new
   police officers, and to help establish and train an Afghanistan
   national military.

   The United States is also committed to playing a leading role in the
   reconstruction of Afghanistan.  Today, I announce the United States
   Overseas Private Investment Corporation will provide an additional
   $50-million line of credit for Afghanistan to finance private-sector
   projects.  This announcement builds on the United States' pledge in
   Tokyo earlier this month to provide $297 million this year to create
   jobs and to start rebuilding Afghanistan's agricultural sector, its
   health care system, and its educational system.  Yet these efforts are
   only the beginning. President George W. Bush and Chairman Karzai walk
   along the colonnade in the Rose Garden after their joint press
   conference Jan. 28. "The United States is committed to building a
   lasting partnership with Afghanistan," said the President. "We'll help
   the new Afghan government provide the security that is the foundation
   for peace." White House photo by Tina Hager.

   Two days ago, for the first time since 1979, an American flag was
   raised over the U.S. Agency for International Development's mission in
   Kabul.  That flag will not be lowered.  It will wave long into the
   future, a symbol of America's enduring commitment to Afghanistan's
   future.

   Chairman Karzai, I reaffirm to you today that the United States will
   continue to be a friend to the Afghan people in all the challenges that
   lie ahead.  Welcome to Washington.

   CHAIRMAN KARZAI:  Thank you very much.

   Well, thank you very much, Mr. President.  Although we are here, as I
   mentioned in my meeting with you, invited by you, for which we are very
   grateful, but we are also here in a way to thank you and the American
   people for the great help that we were given to liberate our country
   once again -- this time from terrorism from the Taliban.  The Afghan
   people recognize this help.  They know that, without this help, we
   would have still probably been under that rule.  So thank you very much
   to you and, through you, to the American people.

   Afghanistan is a good partner.  It will stay a good partner.  And I'm
   sure that the future of the two countries will be good and a wonderful
   relationship should be expected to come in the future.  Thank you very
   much for the help that you gave us during the Turkey conference, and
   thank you for organizing that, as well, together with other
   co-organizers, and thank you for the help that you announced today.

   Afghanistan does need help in reconstruction.  Afghanistan does need
   help in the rebuilding of its national army.  And thank you very much
   for doing that, too.

   I assure you, Mr. President, that Afghanistan, with your help and the
   help of other countries, friends, will be strong and will stand
   eventually on its own feet, and it will be a country that will defend
   its borders and not allow terrorism to return to it, or bother it, or
   trouble it.  We'll be self-reliant.  We'll do good in business.  We'll
   be a strong country.

   Afghanistan knows, Mr. President, the suffering of those people in
   America that saw and went through the horrors of the Twin Tower
   incident, the terrorism there.  I believe the Afghans are the best
   people to see the pain exactly the way it was felt there then, at the
   time, because the Afghans have suffered exactly in the same way.  We
   have sympathy, we know that pain, we understand it.  Our families know
   that pain.

   Therefore, this joint struggle against terrorism should go to the
   absolute end of it.  We must finish them.  We must bring them out of
   their caves and their hideouts, and we promise we'll do that.

   Thank you very much, again, for having us here.  It was an honor and we
   enjoy our trip to the U.S, myself and my colleagues.  Thank you very
   much.

   THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

   We'll answer a couple of questions.  Steve, Sonya.

   Q    On the issue of the detainees at Guantanamo Bay, what's wrong with
   formally applying the Geneva Convention to them?

   THE PRESIDENT:  I have -- the question is about the detainees in
   Guantanamo Bay.  I had a very interesting meeting this morning with my
   national security team.  We're discussing all the legal ramifications
   of how we -- what we -- how we characterize the actions at Guantanamo
   Bay.  A couple of things we agree on.  One, they will not be treated as
   prisoners of war.  They're illegal combatants.  Secondly, they will be
   treated humanely.

   And then, I'll figure out -- I'll listen to all the legalisms and
   announce my decision when I make it.  But we're in total agreement on
   how to -- on whether or not -- on how these prisoners -- or detainees,
   excuse me, ought to be treated.  And they'll be treated well.

   And yesterday, the Secretary of Defense went down to Guantanamo Bay
   with United States senators from both political parties.  The senators
   got to see the circumstances in which these detainees were being
   held.  They -- I don't want to put words in their mouth, but according
   to the Secretary of Defense -- I'll let him puts words in their mouth
   -- they felt like, one, that our troops were really valiant in their
   efforts to make sure that these killers -- these are killers -- were
   held in such a way that they were safe.  I noticed one of our troops
   last night was commenting that they are receiving very good medical
   care.  But I'll make my decision about -- on how to legally interpret
   the situation here pretty soon.

   Sonya.

   Q    Sir, are you prepared to go to court with the General Accounting
   Office to keep secret the records of your energy task force meetings?

   THE PRESIDENT:  Well, the question about the General Accounting Office
   is this:  Should an administration be allowed to have private
   conversations in this office without everybody knowing about it.  This
   is part of how you make decisions, is to call people in and say, what's
   your opinion.  What's your opinion on stem cell?  What's your opinion
   on energy?  What's your opinion on the war?

   And in order for me to be able to get good, sound opinions, those who
   offer me opinions or offer the Vice President opinions must know that
   every word they say is not going to be put into the public record.  And
   so I view the GAO like the Vice President does.  It's an encroachment
   on the Executive Branch's ability to conduct business.

   Now, as far as the specific case of the Energy Report goes, there is an
   energy report that is now in the public arena.  People are free to read
   it.  I hope they do, because it's a comprehensive report, one based
   upon the opinions of members of the exploration sector of the energy
   business; some about the infrastructure, opinions from those involved
   with the infrastructure; some opinions obviously from those in the
   environmental community.  This is a report that collected a lot of
   opinions.  And it was done in such a way that people felt free to come
   in and express their opinion.

   And so, to answer your question, we're not going to let the ability for
   us to discuss matters between ourselves to become eroded.  It's not
   only important for us, for this administration, it is an important
   principle for future administrations.

   Gregory.

   Q    Mr. President, on the Middle East --

   THE PRESIDENT:  Medium-size Stretch.  (Laughter.)

   Q    When you spoke to President Mubarak today and expressed your
   disappointment in Yasser Arafat, what did he say?  And secondly, are
   you worried that the level of disappointment in the region is not as
   high as your own?  Does that complicate your efforts to build a
   coalition against Arafat that's necessary?

   THE PRESIDENT:  I think members -- I think -- first of all, Mr. Mubarak
   can characterize the conversation the way he sees fit.  I will just
   tell you what I told him.  And I told him that in order for there to be
   peace in the Middle East, we must rout out terror, wherever it
   exists.  And the U.S. effort to rout out terror around the world is
   going to benefit the Middle East in the long-term.

   It is important for Mr. Arafat to not only renounce terror, but to
   arrest those who would terrorize people trying to bring peace.  There
   are people in the region that want there to be a peaceful settlement,
   and yet, obviously, terrorists are trying to prevent that from
   happening by wanton murder.  And Mr. Arafat must join the effort to
   arrest them.

   And when the ship showed up with weapons, obviously aimed at
   terrorizing that part of the world, I expressed my severe
   disappointment because I was led to believe that he was willing to join
   us in the fight on terror.  I took him for his word when he -- at
   Oslo.  And so I made this very clear to my friend, Hosni Mubarak, that
   ridding the Middle East of terror is going to make it more likely that
   there be peace and stability in the region.

   Q    Mr. President, going to the issue of the GAO lawsuit --

   THE PRESIDENT:  Yes.

   Q    -- some in Congress, particularly Congressman Waxman, suggested
   that the Energy Report represented a wish list for Enron.

   THE PRESIDENT:  The Energy Report represented a wish -- in other words,
   we were doing favors for Enron?

   Q    That's his representation.  Do you agree with that, sir?

   THE PRESIDENT:  Well, Enron went bust.  Shortly after the report was
   put out, Enron went broke.  And it went broke because, it seems like to
   me -- and we'll wait for the facts to come out -- it went broke because
   there was not full disclosure of finances.  This is a -- what we're
   talking about here is a corporate governance issue.  This is a business
   problem that our country must deal with and must fix.  That is, full
   disclosure of liabilities, full understanding of the effects of
   decisions on pension funds, reform of a pension system, perhaps.

   There are some on Capitol Hill who want to politicize this issue. This
   is not a political issue.  It is a business issue that this nation must
   deal with.  And, you know, Enron had made contributions to a lot of
   people around Washington, D.C.  And if they came to this administration
   looking for help, they didn't find any.

   Now, obviously, we're interested in people's opinions about energy --
   those in the energy business, those in the conservation world, those
   who know how to develop infrastructure.  And so we solicited a lot of
   opinions from people.  And the report is now public; everybody can read
   it to determine our vision about how to make our country less dependent
   on foreign sources of crude oil, which we must do.

   Yes, Jim.

   Q    Mr. President, we understand that you do now want to commit
   American troops to peacekeeping forces in Afghanistan.  Why not,
   sir?  And do you have any concerns that there will be enough forces to
   give Mr. Karzai the kind of security he needs?

   THE PRESIDENT:  We are committing help to the ISIF in the form of
   logistical help, in the form of kind of a bailout -- if the troops get
   in trouble, we stand ready to help; in the form of intelligence.  Plus,
   I have just made in my remarks here a significant change of policy, and
   that is that we're going to help Afghanistan develop her own
   military.  That is the most important part of this visit, it seems like
   to me, besides the fact of welcoming a man who stands for freedom, a
   man who stood for freedom in the face of tyranny.

   We have made a decision -- both of us have made the decision that
   Afghanistan must, as quickly as possible, develop her own
   military.  And we will help.  We'll help train, and Tommy Franks, our
   general, fully understands this and is fully committed to this
   idea.  So, better yet than peacekeepers -- which will be there for a
   while, with our help -- let's have Afghanistan have her own military.

   Major.

   Q    Mr. President, along the issue of politicizing Enron, the Majority
   Leader, Tom Daschle, with whom you in the past have said you have a
   good working relationship, said over the weekend that he was afraid
   your budget would Enron-ize Social Security and Medicare.  That is to
   say, put them in specific jeopardy of collapsing.  I wonder if you
   could comment on that, sir, and if there's any way to make this --

   THE PRESIDENT:  Well, sometimes there's political hyperbole here in
   this town.  The budget I submitted is one -- will submit soon -- is one
   that says that the war on terror is going on and we're going to win,
   and we've got to make sure we spend enough money to win.  It's also one
   that prioritizes homeland security.  It is also one that wants to do
   something about our economy, let's get a stimulus bill.  It's a bill
   that sets priorities.

   And it is -- I think there are some still upset with the tax cut.  But
   I want to remind you that we were in recession in March of last year.
   That's when they officially declared recession.  The slowdown was
   obviously significant to reach a point where we were  -- where the
   economists said we were in recession.  And so the tax cuts came at the
   right time.

   Now, there are some who believe if you raise taxes it makes the economy
   stronger.  As I've told the American people several times, I don't
   understand what textbook they're reading.  I believe by reducing taxes
   it makes the economy stronger.  The tax relief came right at the right
   time. Now, our economy is still not as strong as it should be.  There's
   still some weakness.  But surely people aren't suggesting raising taxes
   at this point makes sense.  I don't believe it does make any sense.

   And so the budget I've submitted is a good, strong budget.  It sets
   priorities and it's realistic, and the American people will understand
   it when I explain it tomorrow night.

   Q    Mr. President, in holding the detainees in Cuba in the manner in
   which the United States is, is one of the signals you're sending that,
   in this new kind of war, as you've described it, the Geneva Conventions
   are outdated and don't apply in the conflict with al Qaeda?

   THE PRESIDENT:  No, the Geneva Conventions are not outdated, and it's a
   very important principle.  First of all, Terry, we are adhering to the
   spirit of the Geneva Convention.  When you say you're holding the
   prisoners in the manner you are -- we're giving them medical care,
   they're being well-treated.

   There is no allegation -- well, there may be an allegation -- there's
   no evidence that we're treating them outside the spirit of the Geneva
   Convention.  And for those who say we are, they just don't know what
   they're talking about.

   And so --

   Q    Mr. President --

   THE PRESIDENT:  Let me finish.  And so I am looking at the legalities
   involved with the Geneva Convention.  In either case, however I make my
   decision, these detainees will be well-treated.  We are not going to
   call them prisoners of war, in either case.  And the reason why is al
   Qaeda is not a known military.  These are killers.  These are
   terrorists.  They know no countries.  And the only thing they know
   about countries is when they find a country that's been weak and they
   want to occupy it like a parasite. And that's why we're so pleased to
   join with Chairman Karzai to rout them out.

   And so the prisoners, detainees, will be well-treated.  They just won't
   be afforded prisoner of war status.  I'll decide beyond that whether or
   not they can be noncombatants under the Geneva Convention, or
   not.  I'll make that legal decision soon.  But this administration has
   made the decision they'll be well-treated.  Long before they arrived at
   Guantanamo Bay did we make that decision.

   Plante.

   Q    Mr. President, the Saudi Interior Minister today said that a
   majority of those being held at Guantanamo, more than 100, are Saudi
   citizens, and asked that they be returned to Saudi Arabia for
   questioning.

   THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I appreciate his request.  And we will, of course
   -- we'll take it under consideration.  There are a lot of detainees
   around the world as a result of this first phase in the war against
   terror. There's a lot in Pakistan, there's a lot in Afghanistan, and
   there are 179, I believe, or whatever the number is, in Guantanamo
   Bay.  So there's a lot Saudi citizens that chose to fight for al Qaeda,
   and/or the Taliban, that we want to know more about.  And so we'll make
   a decision on a case-by-case basis as to whether they go back to Saudi
   Arabia, or not.  I appreciate his suggestion.

   Listen, I want to thank you all very much.  Mr. Chairman, it's good to
   have you --

   Q    May I ask Chairman Karzai a question?

   THE PRESIDENT:  Ask who?

   Q    May I ask Chairman Karzai something about --

   THE PRESIDENT:  Of course you can ask Chairman Karzai a question. Thank
   you.

   Q    Mr. President, I have a question --

   THE PRESIDENT:  No, I'm sorry.

   Q    Chairman Karzai, given Afghanistan's history of fighting foreign
   invaders, and its pride and independence, are you concerned about any
   political sensitivity -- in establishing an Afghan military?  And how
   would you describe the ideal partnership between the United States?

   CHAIRMAN KARZAI:  Well, we have no concerns there.  As I mentioned in
   my remarks earlier, the Afghans are grateful that we were helped twice,
   once during the Soviet occupation by the U.S., and now to fight
   terrorism and liberate ourselves from that menace.  We are a fiercely
   independent country, and the world knows that.  Our neighbors know that
   very well, and the countries in the region know that.

   The Afghan request for training of our army is nothing new.  Our prime
   ministers were here even back in the 1950s to ask this kind of
   training. And it's training and a relationship between two independent,
   sovereign countries, and nothing to worry others.

   Q    Chairman Karzai, have you discussed in regards with Osama bin
   Laden and what can you do to gather more information to capture him?

   CHAIRMAN KARZAI:  We are looking for him.  He's a fugitive.  If we find
   him, we'll catch him.

   Thank you very much.

   END         2:22 P.M. EST

   Printer-Friendly Version

   Picture of White House logo, which features the White House inside an
   oval.

   Press Briefings
   Press Briefing by White House Press Secretary
   Press Briefing Archives
   Radio Address
   President's Radio Address to the Nation
   Discurso Radial del Presidente a la Nacion
   Radio Address Archive
   Archivos - Discursos Radial del Presidente
   News & Speeches
   January 2002
   December 2001
   November 2001
   October 2001
   September 2001
   August 2001
   July 2001
   June 2001
   May 2001
   April 2001
   March 2001
   February 2001
   January 2001
   Proclamations
   National Mentoring Month
   Proclamation Archives
   Executive Orders
   Federal Facts
   Federal Statistics
   West Wing
   History

   President  |  Vice President  |  First Lady  |  Mrs. Cheney  |  News &
   Policies  |
   History & Tours |  Kids  |  Your Government  |  Appointments  |
   Contact |  Text only

   Accessibility  |  Search  |  Privacy Policy  |  Help
