http://ord.uscourts.gov/attorney_fee_statement.pdf

   Message From The Court Regarding Attorney Fee Petitions The members of
   the Court, having recently discussed some recurrent problems seen in
   attorney fee petitions, wish to communicate the following information
   to members of the bar. In deciding fee petitions, the Court must
   determine the reasonable number of hours expended by counsel for the
   party seeking fees, and the reasonable hourly rate of that counsel.
   Even if there is no objection to either the hours or the rates, the
   Court has an independent duty to review the petition for
   reasonableness. Gates v. Deukmejian, 987 F.2d 1392, 1401 (9th Cir.
   1993). Increasingly, the Court has reviewed fee petitions where all or
   a substantial part of an attorney's time for one day is billed as a
   "block" without segregating time for individual tasks. This makes
   assessing the reasonableness of the time spent on a particular task
   extremely difficult. The Court recommends that members of the bar
   record time spent on particular, individual tasks and support their fee
   petitions with a level of documentation that allows the Court, and
   opposing counsel, to adequately review the reasonableness of the time
   spent on a single task. Additionally, the Court frequently sees time
   billed for items such as "conference", "telephone call with . . .", or
   "correspondence to..." with no description of the subject of the
   conference, the call, or the correspondence. This too makes it nearly
   impossible to assess the reasonableness of the requested time. Because
   the burden to document the reasonableness of the requested fees is on
   the attorney requesting fees, fee petitions that fail to support the
   reasonableness of the request due to one of these problems may be
   denied, at least in part. As for the reasonable hourly rate, the Court
   has determined that it will use the Oregon State Bar Economic Survey as
   its initial benchmark. The current edition of the Economic Survey was
   published in 1998 and is available by calling the Oregon State Bar. The
   next edition will be published in the fall of 2002. Attorneys may argue
   for higher rates based on inflation, specialty, or any number of other
   factors. However, the Court requests that fee petitions address the
   Economic Survey and provide justification for requested hourly rates
   higher than reported by the Survey. Thank you.
