http://sami.lanl.gov/sami/pages/fund-l.php3

              [USEMAP:subhead.gif] [s7.gif] [subhead2.gif]
      SAMI Home | Teacher Help | Math Resources | Science Resources
   Classroom Resources | Freebies | Funding | Other Resources | Search



   [p_lessn3.gif]
     __________________________________________________________________

   Aetna Foundation
          Grants from $1,000 to $270,000 have been made in recent years by
          the Aetna Foundation for projects that improve the performance
          of at-risk young people, which address issues of systemic
          reform, and broaden students' academic and career horizons.
          Aetna has some preference for projects that deal with the
          transition between middle grades and high school and between
          high school and college. Aetna has fifteen "focus regions"
          across the nation through which it made grants outside the
          immediate Hartford, Connecticut area.

                Aetna Foundation
                Executive Director
                151 Farmington Avenue, RE1B
                Hartford , CT

   Alcoa Foundation
          The Alcoa Foundation funds grant requests for educational,
          health and welfare, cultural, civic, and community and youth
          organization purposes, with priority given to programs and
          organizations in or near communities where Alcoa plants or
          offices are located. Proposals should focus on a specific
          project or need and be submitted through the local Alcoa
          facility. There is no deadline and requests are reviewed
          monthly. For general guidelines, write:

                Kathleen Buechel
                Alcoa Foundation
                Alcoa Building, Room 3070
                425 Sixth Avenue
                Pittsburgh , PA
                (412) 553-2348

   America Online Inc.
          http://ruraltelecon.org/aolawards/aol00/aolawards.asp#youth
          AOL is launching an Interactive Education Grants program under
          its newly created AOL Foundation. Open to K-12 teachers,
          education leaders, parents, and other community leaders, the
          grants will be awarded to those who develop innovative and
          creative ways to enhance student learning through the online
          medium. Special emphasis will be placed on proposals that reach
          socio-economically disadvantaged children and rural communities.

                Jennifer Balsam
                jbalsam@sso.org
                (202) 624-3550

   Ameritech Education Resources
          http://www.ameritech.com:1080/community/education/index.html
          Ameritech donated $3.2 million to K-12 schools in 1997. Through
          its SuperSchool program, the company supports projects that help
          school leaders learn how to use technology in their schools. It
          also funds alliances among schools so they may benefit from
          telecommunications technologies they otherwise couldn't afford.
          Ameritech awards are limited to schools in Illinois, Indiana,
          Michigan, Ohio, and Wisconsin.

                (312) 750-5037

   Apple Computer, Inc.
          Apple has announced the 1997 Apple Education Grants program,
          called Partners in Education 3 (PIE 3). The 1997 program builds
          on the past two years' experience involving partnerships between
          K-12 schools and institutions that deliver ongoing pre- and
          inservice teacher training, such as schools of education, other
          departments within universities or colleges, and nonprofit
          organizations. The goal of these collaborations is to bring the
          expertise and experience of both partners to the K-12 curriculum
          development effort and to integrate lessons learned from these
          efforts into ongoing teacher training programs. PIE 3 grants
          will consist of Apple hardware, software, telecommunications,
          and a 10-day professional development retreat for five-member
          partnership teams. A partial allotment of hardware will be
          donated in the first year of the grant. Final hardware
          configurations will be negotiated with each grant recipient. In
          addition, each grantee will receive an Apple WWW Internet
          Workgroup Server. Grantees will be eligible for a second year of
          funding based on the first year's performance.

                Apple Computer, Inc.
                Education Grants Program
                20525 Mariani Avenue, MS 381
                Cupertino , CA
                (408) 974-2974

   Arthur Vining Davis Foundation
          In addition to higher education projects, the Arthur Vining
          Davis Foundation supports programs that improve high school
          teaching. The Foundation is especially interested in
          collaborative projects that involve high school and higher
          education faculties in solving critical problems in secondary
          education. Grants typically range from $75,000 to $125,000.

                Arthur Vining Davis Foundation
                (904) 359-0670

   AT&T
          http://www.att.com/learningnetwork/
          Every day it becomes clearer that computer literacy and the use
          of information technology have joined the "three R's" as basic
          skills our children need to succeed in the next century. That's
          why AT&T developed the AT&T Learning Network,( our $150 million
          commitment to support teaching through the effective use of
          technology. Through this program, AT&T continues to invest in
          services and financial resources to help make teaching and
          lifelong learning possible Q anytime, anywhere.

   BankAmerica Foundation
          The BankAmerica Foundation considers grants in five broad
          categories, including Community Investment, K-12 Education,
          Conservation and Environment, Health and Human Services, and
          Cultural and the Arts. The Foundation offers an information
          service to explain guidelines and application procedures.

                BankAmerica Foundation
                Dept. 3246
                Box 37000
                San Francisco , CA
                (415) 953-3175

   Barbara Bush Foundation for Family Literacy
          The current grant cycle has just been completed but a future
          grant cycle will begin soon.

                Barbara Bush Foundation for Family Literacy
                (202) 338-8263

   Bechtel Foundation
          Elementary and secondary schools can submit proposals for grants
          that encourage kids to stay in school and that further teachers'
          professional development. Bechtel is especially interested in
          projects that focus on innovative methods to improve math, and
          technology education, with emphasis on efforts to increase the
          achievement in these subjects among students from traditionally
          unserved or underrepresented groups.

                LeeAnne Lang
                Charitable Contributions, Bechtel Foundation
                Box 193965
                San Francisco , CA
                (415) 768-5974

   Bell Atlantic Foundation
          http://www.bellatlanticfoundation.com/grants.htm
          The Bell Atlantic Foundation is an advocate of building
          partnerships that focus on improving the lives of people through
          the integration of innovative technology. One way to assist
          concerned urban and rural communities is to support programs
          that will provide training with long-term collaborations with
          community centers, educational institutions and other nonprofit
          organizations. They fund in the Atlantic Coast Region on a
          calendar year and accept grants on a rolling basis. However, the
          Foundation completes all fund raising decisions by December 1st
          each year and begins the fund raising cycle again on January 1st
          of the next year.

   BellSouth Foundation
          http://www.bellsouthcorp.com/bsf/
          The BellSouth Corporation created and endowed the BellSouth
          Foundation in 1986. Since then, the Foundation has awarded over
          $25 million in grants throughout nine southeastern states:
          Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi,
          North Carolina, South Carolina and Tennessee.

   California Department of Education
          They have many new publications of interest to grant writers.
          Some titles include: The Teacher's Catalog of Grants,
          Fellowships and Awards, The Catalog of Private Foundations,
          Community Foundations, and Corporate Giving Programs.

                California Department of Education
                (800) 995-4099

   Campus Tours.com
          http://www.campustours.com
          Campus Tours.com is an online source for virtual college tours,
          interactive maps, college webcams, QuickTime VR tours, campus
          movies, pictures grants, and financial aid.

   Capitol Publications, Inc.
          Offers titles related to grant writing, including Writing
          Proposals That Win, Corporate Philanthropy Report, Education
          Grants Alert and more.

                Capitol Publications, Inc.
                1101 King St.
                Box 1453
                Alexandria , VA
                (800) 221-0425

   Carnegie Corporation of New York
          http://www.carnegie.org/
          Carnegie is interested in elementary and middle school projects
          in a variety of areas, including programs that encourage
          minority and female youth to study science and math and those
          that promote staff development activities linked to school
          reform initiatives. Nearly $60 million will be available in
          1999.

                Carnegie Corporation of New York
                437 Madison Avenue
                New York , NY
                (212) 207-6289

   Cisco Systems
          http://www.cisco.com/
          Cisco Systems provides this web site with information about
          their products, training, solutions, technical support and their
          grant program.

   Coca-Cola Foundation
          Roughly $10 million in education grant will be awarded by the
          Coca-Cola Foundation this year. Grants, ranging from $25,000 to
          $100,00 will be given to support a variety of types of projects,
          with special focus on those which establish and expand
          partnerships between higher education and public school
          districts.

                Cola-Cola Foundation
                P.O. Drawer 1734
                Atlanta , GA
                (404) 676-2568

   CollegeNet
          http://www.collegenet.com
          CollegeNET is a free Internet guide to colleges and universities
          which provides students with a web-based tool for identifying
          and then applying to institutions. The site also features a new
          free scholarship search database with more than $1 billion in
          scholarships. The site also offers virtual campus tours and lots
          of valuable information about Financial Aid.

   Computer Learning Foundation
          The Computer Learning Foundation awards grants to aid computer
          learning in the classroom.

                Computer Learning Foundation
                P.O. Box 60400
                Palo Alto , CA
                (415) 327-3347

   Corporate Giving Watch
          A monthly publication with news and information on corporate
          giving programs.

                The Taft Group
                Suite 450
                12300 Twinbrook Parkway
                Rockville , MD
                (301) 816-0210

   The Council of Foundations
          http://www.cof.org/
          A nonprofit membership association of grantmaking foundations
          and corporations. Their mission is to promote responsible and
          effective philanthropy by assisting existing and future
          grantmakers. For educators, this is a resource for finding
          possible grants to match specific needs.

   Department of the Interior Wetlands Conservation
          The Fish and Wildlife Service, through the North American
          Wetlands Conservation Council, is accepting proposals for both
          "regular" and "small" grants to support projects dealing with
          the preservation and restoration of wetlands areas. About $42
          million will be available for grants, with 50%-70% set aside for
          projects involving Mexican and/or Canadian agencies and at least
          30% reserved for U.S. projects. Grants will go as high as $1
          million, with the average award about $300,000.

                Fish and Wildlife Service
                Publications Unit, MS 130 Webb
                4401 North Fairfax Dr.
                Arlington , VA
                (703) 358-1711

   Digital Corporate Contributions Program
          http://www.digital.com/quickindex.html
          Digital Equipment Corporation seeks to promote academic
          excellence through the accessibility of technology in the
          classroom. Digital provides cash or equipment grants to schools
          who can demonstrate a special need or an innovative use for the
          assistance. You are encouraged to call the Corporate
          Contributions office to discuss your project.

                contribution@digital.com
                (508) 493-6550

   The Distance Learning Funding $ourcebook
          http://www.technogrants.com/
          The Funding $ourcebook offers the latest research on grants for
          telecommunications, multimedia, curricula development, and
          teacher training for private and public schools, higher
          education, museums, libraries, arts and culture organizations,
          health and social service agencies, and grassroots community
          organizations.

   Division of Assistance to States
          This division of the Department of Education provides funding
          for the handicapped and developmentally disabled.
          OSERS, US Department of Education.

                Division of Assistance to States
                400 Maryland Avenue, SW
                Washington , DC
                (202) 205-8825

   Do Something
          http://www.dosomething.org
          A unique name for a unique funding source! Anyone under the age
          of thirty who might have a creative idea for dealing with a
          community problem should think about applying for a $500 Do
          Something grant.

                National Grants, Do Something
                423 West 55 St.
                8th Floor
                New York , NY
                (212) 523-1175

   Dow Chemical Corporation
          http://thechalkboard.com/corporations/dow/
          The mission of the Dow Chemical Corporation is to be a corporate
          leader in catalyzing coalitions to improve the quality of North
          American K-12 education in math, science, and technology. The
          site includes lesson plans, grants and information about current
          isssues in math, science and technology.

   Dr. Farallon Education Grant
          http://colo.farallon.com/education/grant/
          Farallon Communications, Inc. is proud to sponsor the Dr.
          Farallon Education Grant 2000, a grant program specifically
          designed to provide networking assistance to K-12 schools in the
          Unites States and Canada. Farallon is making available $30,000
          in networking hardware grants to qualified public and private
          schools. Grant winners will select their award from the entire
          family of Farallon Networking Hardware.

   Dwight Eisenhower Program for Math and Science
          The Dwight Eisenhower Program provides funding for Math and
          Science Education.

                Dwight Eisenhower Program for Math and Science
                OERI-US Department of Education
                (202) 219-1496

   e-rate Primer
          http://www.netc.org/fcc/index.html
          e-rate Primer is a comprehensive guide to filling out the e-rate
          application and applying for the e-rate money.

   E.L. Wiegand Foundation
          Provides grants to:"develop and strengthen programs and projects
          at educational institutions in the academic areas of science,
          business, fine arts, law and medicine." Schools must be located
          in Nevada, California, Oregon, Idaho, Utah, Arizona or
          Washington and applications may be submitted at any time.

                E.L. Wiegand Foundation
                Wiegard Center
                165 West Liberty Street
                Reno , NV
                (702) 333-0310

   Eaton Corporation Foundation
          The Eaton Corporation Foundation is interested in projects that
          prepare minority youth for employment, especially those which
          focus on making math, science, and technology and exciting and
          "do-able" academic and career choices. Grants range from $1,000
          to $25,000, with over $1 million awarded last year. Schools and
          non-profits are eligible to apply,although the Eaton Corporation
          Foundation restricts its giving to thirty states with company
          operations.

                James Mason
                Director of Public and Community Affairs
                Eaton Corporation
                Eaton Center
                Cleveland , OH
                (216) 523-5000

   ED/OERI World Wide Web Server
          http://www.ed.gov/
          Some of the Department of Education's most requested pages on
          this site are: FAFSA (Student Aid Application), Student Guide to
          Financial Aid, Project EASI, Title IV School Codes, IDEA
          (Disabilities Education Act), ERIC Digests (Research), America
          Goes Back to School, Education Statistics (NCES), Helping Your
          Child Series and Technology.

   Educating.Net
          http://www.educating.net
          Educating.net is an education search engine with information on
          homeschooling, traditional or distance learning university
          degrees, college scholarship assistance, K-12 homework help,
          K-12 teacher resources, electronic libraries, continuing
          education, fun learning, help finding college scholarships
          uniquely suited to the individual, college test preparation, and
          more.

   Education Funding Research Council
          http://www.grantsandfunding.com/
          This site provides information on Federal, corporate, foundation
          and private funding for your organization's services and
          products.

   Education World
          http://www.education-world.com/
          This site offers a wealth of information including lesson plans
          in math and science. Education World also includes a offers a
          turnkey resource for educators looking for grant information -
          everything from who is offering grants to grantwriting
          resources, guides and software.

   Educational Foundation of America
          The foundation is interested in "grassroots" education projects
          on an on-going basis. Those with community-based educational
          technology proposals should contact the foundation with a letter
          of inquiry to the Educational Foundation of America.

                Educational Foundation of America
                35 Church Lane
                Westport , CT
                (203) 226-6498

   Educational Partnerships
          The Educational Networks Division provides funding for
          networking projects in the $100,000 to $250,000 range.

                Educational Partnerships
                Educational Networks Division
                555 New Jersey Avenue, NW Room 500
                Washington , DC
                (202) 208-2116

   Education's Unsung Heroes Awards
          http://www.unsungheroes.com
          Classroom teachers who have developed and demonstrated a
          creative approach are eligible to receive recognition AND a
          grant for their innovative work. The Northern Life Insurance
          Company and ReliaStaroperates the Education's Unsung Heroes
          Awards which will this year make about eighty awards ranging
          from $2,000 to $25,000 to honor innovative K-12 teachers (and
          administrators, paraprofessionals, and classified staff) and
          help spread their creative techniques and approaches to other
          schools and districts. Nominations for awards can be submitted
          by colleagues, students, or parents and the deadline is November
          1.

                Education\'s Unsung Heroes Awards
                1505 Riverview Road
                P.O. Box 297
                St. Peter , MN
                janeh@nlic.com
                (800) 426-7050

   EduHound
          http://www.eduhound.com/
          Eduhound is an online index of education-related resources. The
          site contains links to curriculum materials in a variety of
          subject areas including math, science, technology, grants and
          funding, standards and assessment and much more.

   Exxon Education Foundation
          Exxon's K-3 math support program is an initiative that helps
          teachers develop and implement plans for bringing The National
          Council of Teachers of Mathematics standards into their
          classrooms. In addition to cash awards, technical and
          professional support can be provided.

                Exxon Education Foundation
                5959 Las Colinas Blvd.
                Irving , TX

   FastWeb
          http://www.fastweb.com/
          FastWeb is designed to match each student's background,
          automatically, with eligibility requirements for scholarships
          from around the country and advise them about scholarship
          opportunities tailored to them. All for free. Virtual college
          toyrs can be taken at this site also.

   Federal Funding Sources
          http://www.ed.gov/legislation/FedRegister/announcements/index.ht
          ml
          For a complete and current listing of grants announced through
          the Federal Registrar - U.S. Department of Education Documents,
          visit the Federal Funding Sources Website.

   FEDIX Opportunity Alert
          http://www.rams-fie.com/online/index.htm
          To better compete for research and education funding the Federal
          Government is providing this free resource to you. There are NO
          REGISTRATION FEES or NO USER COSTS, and beginning with the next
          business day, the results of a daily search of new federal
          opportunities that match your area(s) of interest will be
          e-mailed directly to you.

   The Financial Aid Information Page
          http://www.finaid.org/
          This page provides a free, comprehensive, independent, and
          objective guide to student financial aid.

   First Family School Partnership
          The First Family School Partnership provides funding in the
          range of $50,000 to $200,000 for demonstrations of family-school
          partnerships to improve achievement of children K-12.

                Office of Educational Research and Improvement (OERI)
                US Department of Education
                400 Maryland Avenue, SW
                Washington , DC
                (202) 219-6303

   Ford Motor Company Fund
          Funding support for K-12 educational programs from the Ford
          Motor Company includes grants for research in science and math,
          quality enrichment programs, standards-based systemic change,
          equity, and educational accountability.

                Ford Motor Company Fund
                The American Road
                PO Box 1899
                Dearborn , MI

   The Foundation Center
          http://fdncenter.org/2index.html
          The Foundation Center provides a web site for grantmakers to
          present their information. Among those listed at the site are:
          Ford, Kellogg, Robert Wood Johnson, Annenberg, Rockefeller
          Foundations, Pew Charitable Trust, and the Lilly Endowment. It
          is an excellent resource for eductaors to find who is available
          in the grant arena.

   Foundation for Educational Field Studies
          Grants for projects looking for innovative approaches to
          classroom teaching and alternative teaching methods -- including
          experiential learning and educational field trips -- are
          provided by the Foundation for Educational Field Experiences.
          Priority is given programs for grades 4-12. Schools, districts,
          and non-profit organizations are eligible to receive funds.
          Between $40,000 and $45,000 was given out in 1995, mostly for
          projects ranging from $100 to $1,000 per student or per field
          experience.

                Ralph Drake
                Foundation for Educational Field Studies
                PO Box 8280
                Incline Village , NV
                (702) 831-7080

   Foundation for Exceptional Children
          http://www.cec.sped.org/fd/minigapp.htm
          Minigrant awards of up to $500.00 will be made for innovative
          education-related projects which directly benefit gifted
          children or youth and/or children and youth with disabilitie.
          Awards of up to $1000 will be made for innovative science and
          technical projects that directly benefit children and youth with
          disabilities.

                Foundation for Exceptional Children
                Mini-grant Committee
                1920 Association Drive
                Reston , VA
                (703) 620-1054

   Foundations On-Line
          http://www.foundations.org/
          Foundations On-line is a directory of charitable grantmakers and
          you can browse the directory, pick a listed foundation, search
          any organization's Information Page or search any organization's
          Home Page. Home Pages may contain downloadable information such
          as grant applications, periodical and financial reports, and
          e-mail capabilities.

   Frost Foundation
          Education and the environment are key topic areas for grants
          from the Frost Foundation. Grants from $5,000 to $45,000 are
          available, with use of funds as seed money or to attract
          matching money the preference.

                Frost Foundation
                Cherry CreekPlaza II
                650 South Cherry Street
                Denver , CO

   Fund-Raising.Com
          http://www.fund-raising.com/nichenet/frindex.html
          Fund-Raising.Com has links to fund-raising products, sources,
          and information. It is an "idea bank" where you can share
          fund-raising needs and "what works" information

   Funding for Educational Technology
          http://www.mcrel.org/
          McREL (Mid-continent Regional Educational Laboratory) maintains
          a web site with numerous references and resources to funding for
          educational technology.

   Funding for Technology
          http://www.mcrel.org/resources/technology/funding.asp
          Funding for Technology is a Web site maintained by McREL with
          resources on reports, articles, bibliographies, grant writing
          and much more.

   Funding Opportunities
          http://www.finaid.org
          If you're interested in applying for a grant or contract from
          the Department of Education, here's information you'll need to
          know. Department guidelines, regulations, and Federal Register
          documents are available here.

   The FundingFactory
          http://www.fundingfactory.com
          The FundingFactory provides high-value funding programs that
          increase student and teacher access to technology products
          including software and computers.

   FundingFactory
          http://www.fundingfactory.com/preadmin.asp
          FundingFactory.com is an online network providing school
          fundraising solutions for educators, parents and civic-minded
          individuals and businesses.

   Fundraising
          http://www.fund-raising.com/nichenet/frindex.html
          Fund-raising.com Inc has links to fund-raising products,
          sources, and information. It an "idea bank" where you can share
          fund-raising needs and "what works" information.

   Gates Foundation
          http://www.techresource.org
          The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation has grown to over 5
          billion. Visit the site to find out how it supports education
          and libraries.

   General Mills Foundation
          The General Mills Foundation is preparing to make 150 grants
          totaling $3.6 million for projects that improve the academic
          performance of K-12 students. Special emphasis will be placed on
          projects that are reformed-based and those that deal with
          improvements in pre-service and in-service education of
          teachers. No deadline for proposals and the Foundation Board
          meets quarterly to make award decisions.

                Reatha Clark King
                General Mills Foundation
                Box 1113
                Minneapolis , MN
                mills999@mail.genmills.com
                (612) 540-7891     Fax: (612) 540-4114

   Government Assistance Almanac
          Lots of information on all types of grants and funding. (ISSN
          0883-8690) is published periodically.

                Omnigraphics Publishing
                25th Floor
                Penobscot Building
                Detroit , MI
                (313) 961-1340

   Grant Opportunity Resources - Pacific Bell
          http://www.kn.pacbell.com/wired/grants
          Finding money, writing proposals, knowing who's doing what
          where: it's all a juggling act. The following resources include
          some of the better known, more reliable resources for getting
          information and expertise needed for an intelligent pursuit of
          grant funding. Included in the resources are links for locating
          grants, for writing grant proposals, some links to electronic
          and print-based information resources; plus an assortment of
          tools that will, among other things, help you make your own
          customized products.

   The Grant Seeker's Directory of K-12 Funders
          Published annually in printed volumes by state. Lots of good
          information at $60.00 (ISBN 002-901-9508485).

                Polaris Corporation
                North Executive Plaza
                2320 E. North Street, Suite JJ
                Greenville , NC
                (800) 368-3775

   The Grants Sourcebook for Higher Education
          Listings of thousands of grants offered by many different
          sources.

                The Oryx Press
                4041 North Central, #700
                Phoenix , AZ
                (800) 279-4663

   Grants Web
          http://web.fie.com/cws/sra/resource.htm
          This site provides listings of numerous grant oopportunities and
          a lot of pertainent information about each.

   Grantwriter's Newsletter of Funding Resources
          An inexpensive way to find grant source information is the
          Grantwriter's Newsletter of Funding Resources. The cost is $36
          for 12 issues.

                Grantwriter\'s Newsletter of Funding Resources
                617 Wright Ave.
                Terrytown , LA

   Grassroots Fundraising Journal
          This Journal provides articles on alternative sources of
          funding.

                Grassroots Fundraising Journal
                P.O. Box 11607
                Berkeley , CA

   Great Asante Grant Program
          This is a relatively new program that awards free computer
          networks to schools each year. The grant provides all the
          hardware and software necessary to network 50 school computers.
          The grant is worth $14,000.

                JDL Technologies
                jdtech@mr.net
                (800) 535-3969

   The Great NEC Express5800 K-12WORLD Server Grant 1999
          http://www.jdltech.com/NECgrant.htm
          A grant opportunity from JDL Technologies and NEC Computer
          Systems Division to provide support for networking.

                NECgrant@jdltech.com
                800-535-3969

   Greenville Foundation
          Schools west of the Rocky Mountains have a big edge in
          competitions for pre K-12 projects supported by the Greenville
          Foundation's grants program. Ranging from $5,000 to $20,000,
          winning projects are generally those that focus on high-risk and
          high-potential children and which develop solid parent and
          community support for significant achievement by young people.

                Greenville Foundation
                Second Street, Suite A
                Sonar , CA
                (707) 938-9377

   GTE Foundation
          With special attention given to proposals that support math and
          science improvement among underrepresented minority groups, the
          GTE Foundation offers grants in all areas in which it provides
          telephone service--- AL, AZ, CA, CT, DC, HI, ID, IL, IN, KY, ME,
          MD, MA, MI, NH, NM, NC, OH, OK, PA, SC, TN , TX, VA, WA, and WV.

                GTE Foundation
                GTE Corporate Communications Department
                One Stamford Forum
                Stamford , CT
                (203) 965-3620

   GTE Northwest
          Proposals for technology projects from schools in Idaho, Oregon,
          and Washington are being accepted by GTE Northwest. Ten projects
          will be funded for amounts up to$10,000. Grants must be
          submitted through a non-profit agency (such as CEC). Deadline is
          June 15, 1999.

                GTE Northwest
                kevin.laverty@telops.gte.com
                (206) 261-5950

   GuideStar--Donors' Guide to Charities and Nonprofits
          http://www.guidestar.org/
          Donors and philanthropists can now more easily compare and
          monitor organizations to which they may contribute, while
          nonprofit organizations can perhaps spend less of their
          resources on fundraising. These are the goals of Philanthropic
          Research, Inc's GuideStar, a clearinghouse of information on
          more than 600,000 charities and nonprofit organizations.
          GuideStar hosts a searchable database, a newsletter, employment
          and volunteer opportunity listings, and valuable articles in
          addition to lists of links for both donors and nonprofit
          organizations. Database information includes brief descriptions
          of the charities/nonprofits and their programs, funding sources,
          geographic location(s), and income/asset statements.

   Hewlett-Packard Philantropy Project
          http://webcenter.hp.com/grants/us/index.html
          Hewlett-Packard has earmarked over $500,000 for K-12 projects
          stressing hands-on science and math programs, especially those
          designed to attract minority and female students to scientific
          and technical academic and career pursuits. Projects may extend
          over three years and may provide teacher training on how to use
          technology to support science and math instruction.

                Nancy Thomas
                Hewlett-Packard Corporate Philantropy Office
                Hewlett-Packard
                Box 10303
                Palo Alto , CA
                thomasn@corp.com
                (415) 857-5197

   High/Scope Educational Research Foundation
          A Technology Demonstration Partnerships Project to support the
          use of computers in pre-school and K-3 classrooms. Selected
          schools receive hands-on training on-site and at High/Scope
          headquarters, and must commit to the program over three years.
          Only a limited number of sites can be supported

                Charles Hohmann
                High/Scope Educational Research Foundation
                600 N. River St.
                Ypsilanti , MI
                (313) 485-2000

   ICONNect
          http://www.ala.org/ICONN/icprize.html
          Collaborative teams of AASL members and classroom teachers can
          apply for one of the five $1000 ICPrizes awarded annually that
          encourage the use of Internet resources to develop meaningful
          curriculum connections. The school library media specialist
          applying for an ICPrize must be a member of ALA/AASL and the
          project must use Internet resources in the curriculum.

   ICPrize for Collaboration through Technology
          http://www.ala.org/ICONN/icprize.html
          For information on the five $1,000 minigrants, ICPrize for
          Collaboration through Technology from ICONnet, visit their site.

   Intel Foundation
          http://www.intel.com/intel/community/grants.htm
          Intel funds programs that advance math, science, or technology
          education, promote science careers among women and under
          represented minorities, or increase public understanding of
          technology and its impact. National grants apply to nationwide
          projects or pilots for national programs. Community grants apply
          to projects located in a community where Intel has a major
          facility: Arizona, California, New Mexico, Oregon, Texas, or
          Washington. An application is available at the web site.

   Intel in Education
          http://www.intel.com/education/
          Intel in Education is a site that includes information on the
          E-rate, an interactive site on how transistors work, using
          technology in education, and grants, donations and scholarships,
          plus more.

   InterLibrary Resource Sharing (LSCA, Title III)
          The InterLibrary Resource Sharing (LSCA, Title III) provides
          funds for coordinating resources of schools, libraries and
          special information centers.

                OERI-US Department of Education
                (202) 219-6303

   International Technology Education Association
          Technology teachers can apply for grants for research projects
          from ITEA.

                Dr. W. Tad Foster
                International Technology Education Association
                foster@ccsua.ctstateu.edu
                (203) 832-1851

   Internet Content for the Classroom
          http://www.wcom.com/marcopolo/training/request.shtml
          This grant program provides on-site professional development for
          K-12 teachers in the use of Internet Content for the Classroom
          to states and school districts throughout the United States
          based on materials developed by the MarcoPolo partnership.
          MarcoPolo is a partnership between the MCI WorldCom Foundation
          and six leading educational organizations that have created five
          discipline-specific web sites that offer high-quality,
          panel-reviewed educational content. The goal is to provide the
          highest quality content and professional development free of
          charge and easily accessible to all educators in the country.

   ITT Hartford Insurance Group Foundation
          Approximately $1 million a year is awarded to schools in
          Connecticut and 40 other communities throughout the U.S. where
          the company maintains offices.

                Sandra Sharr
                ITT Hartford Insurance Group Foundation
                (203) 547-4972

   JCPenny CO.
          Although not specific to science and math, the JCPenny Company
          channels a portion of its profits to support K-12 school
          improvement/reform initiatives. No application deadlines.

                JCPenny CO.
                Community Relations
                Box 10001
                Dallas , TX
                (214) 431-1349

   Johnson's Wax Fund
          Administered by S.C. Johnson & Son Wax Co., this fund provides
          more than $1 million in funding to schools in the mid-West. The
          funds can be used many ways including linking schools to the
          Net.

                Reva Holmes
                (414) 631-2267

   Kellogg Foundation
          Youth and Education and Rural Devloopment is one of six overall
          focus areas for the W.C. Kellogg Foundation's annual $200
          million grant award program. Of particular interest are
          proposals which address early childhood education, the needs
          youth facing the transition from childhood to adolescence and
          from adolescence to young adulthood.

                W.C. Kellogg Foundation
                One Michigan Avenue
                East Battle Creek , MI
                (606) 968-1661     Fax: (616) 968-0413

   Library of Congress
          http://lcweb.loc.gov/
          The Library's Web Site provides up-to-date information about the
          Library and its services, the Library's catalog, multi-format
          historical collections online (American Memory), texts of
          Library publications, research guides, guides to Internet
          resouces, and more.

   Lycos Zone
          http://www.lycoszone.com
          Lycos Zone is a safe site designed for parents, teachers and
          kids. The site contains a fun and games zone, a homework zone, a
          parents and teachers zone, and a new and cool zone. Inside the
          zones there is a variety of information including, funding
          resources, educational research, home schooling info. and much
          more.

   Mars Foundation
          The Mars Foundation offers a variety of grants ranging from
          $1,000 to $10,000 for K-12 curriculum development, teacher
          professional development, computer and equipment acquisitions,
          and capital building projects.

                Sue Martin
                Mars Foundation
                6885 Elm Street
                McLean , VA

   Metropolitan Life Foundation
          Educational reform, development of high quality teaching
          materials, innovative approaches to helping at-risk youth, and
          programs addressing basic literacy are priorities for the
          Metropolitan Life Foundation.

                (212) 578-6272

   Meyer Memorial Trust
          The Meyer Memorial Trust has started a new grant program called
          "Support for Teacher Initiatives." This program puts special
          emphasis on individuals teachers' ideas for improving their
          particular classrooms. Individual grants to teachers are
          small--- up to a limited of $1,500 for a straight grant or
          $2,000 for a project which can raise an addition $1,000 in
          matching funds. Grants for projects in which two or more
          teachers are involved can run up to $5,000, or $7,000 if an
          additional $3,500 in matching funds can be provided.

                Meyer Memorial Trust
                1515 SW Fifth Ave.
                Suite 500
                Portland , OR
                (503) 228-5512

   Microsoft Corporate Giving Program
          http://www.microsoft.com/giving/
          The world's biggest software company offers grants dealing with
          technology. To reference opportunities and guidelines, check out
          the Microsoft web page.

   Mitsubishi Electric America Foundation
          Grants for projects that advance the independence, productivity
          and community inclusion of young people with disabilities are
          available to non-profit organizations from the Mitsubishi
          Electric America Foundation. There is no deadline and applicants
          should submit a two-page concept paper including a budget
          summary and description of the intended use of funds.

                Merry Richter
                Mitsubishi Electric America Foundation
                1150 Connecticut Avenue NW
                Suite 1020
                Washington , DC
                (202) 857-0031

   Motorola Foundation
          Grants from $1,000 to $10,000 that focus on enhancing math,
          science, and technology opportunities for minorities and the
          economically-disadvantaged are available from the Motorola
          Foundation.

                Motorola Foundation
                Program Manager
                1303 East Algonquin Road
                Schaumburg , IL
                (708) 576-6200

   National Foundation for the Improvement of Education
          http://www.nfie.org/
          The National Foundation for the Improvement of Education. NFIE
          provides grants and technical assistance to teachers, education
          support personnel, and higher education faculty and staff to
          improve student learning in the nation's public schools.

   The National Science Foundation
          http://www.nsf.gov/
          The NSF funds research and education in science and engineering,
          through grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements. The
          Foundation accounts for about 20 percent of federal support to
          academic institutions for basic research.

   The National Security Agency
          http://www.nsa.gov/
          The National Security Agency site contains a wealth of resources
          for math and science teachers and students. The site gives
          directions to summer workshops, grants, and worksheets for all
          levels of education.

   NEA Foundation Technology Grants
          Over half a million dollars in grant funds will be made
          available by the National Education Association's National
          Foundation for the Improvement of Education for projects to help
          teachers learn how to apply technology in the classroom. Sixteen
          projects will be supported, each starting with a $2,000 planning
          grant, followed by a $15,000 pilot/demonstration award.

                NFIE
                1201 16th St. NW
                Washington , DC
                (202) 822-7840

   NEC Computer Systems Division
          http://www.jdltech.com/NECgrant.htm
          Now NEC CSD is making available 20 Express5800TM K-12WORLDTM
          Internet Access Servers through a grant program exclusively for
          schools. Ten of these servers will be K-12WORLD Satellite Server
          models, including high-speed satellite internet access. The
          grant includes a complete solution featuring NEC Express5800
          Server hardware, K-12WORLD CyberLibraryTM Server software with
          SmartFilterTM option, one day of on-site installation, one year
          of monthly SmartFilter updates, and one year of toll-free
          support. Download a copy of the grant at:
          http://www.jdltech.com/NECgrant.htm

   NEC Foundation
          Projects that promote science and technical education at the
          high school level and those which will increase access to
          technology for people with disabilities can be submitted for
          funding consideration by the NEC Foundation. Grants range from
          $2,000 to $75,000, with an average of $25,000. Schools,
          districts, non-profit agencies, and science groups are eligible
          to apply. Deadlines are May 1 and November 1.

                Sylvia Clark
                NEC Foundation of America
                8 Corporate Center Drive
                Melville , NY
                clarks@ccgate.ml.nec.com
                (516) 753-7021     Fax: (516) 753-7904

   NSF Internet Connections
          http://www.cise.nsf.gov/ncri/hp-connections.html
          The National Science Foundation will support U.S. research and
          education institutions to establish high performance connections
          to the Internet. $15,000 each for 2-year grants for K-12
          education institutions. Each grant category supports proposals
          for institutions to connect their local network infrastructure
          to the Internet by acquiring services from one or more network
          service providers. Projects for K-12 must use innovative
          technologies for Internet access.

                NSF Internet Connections
                National Science Foundation
                4201 Wilson Blvd
                Arlington , VA
                (703)-306-1949

   NSF, Programs for Persons With Disabilities
          The National Science Foundation offers grants to support
          projects that develop and disseminate innovative strategies that
          reduce barriers to disabled students' pursuit of careers in
          science, math, engineering, and technology. Grants go up to
          $100,000 a year for two years.

                NSF, Programs for Persons With Disabilities
                4201 Wilson Blvd.
                Room 815
                Arlington , VA
                (703) 306-1636

   NTIA Home Page
          http://www.ntia.doc.gov
          NTIA offers a variety of assistance to the public in the
          telecommunications arena. Forms of assistance include grants,
          training, information, and research services that promote
          greater public participation in the development of
          telecommunications and information technology and services.

   Olin Corporation Charitable Trust
          Funds math and science projects in twenty states. No deadlines.

                Carmella Piacentini
                Olin Corporation
                P.O. Box 1355
                Stamford , CT
                (203) 356-3301

   The ORYX Grants Collection
          http://www.oryxpress.com/grants.htm
          The ORYX Grants Collection is a complete grant collection
          database. It also provides print and electronic versions as well
          as specialized publications that explain the complete funding
          process,from how to locate grant money, writing a winning
          proposal, and successfully adminstering a grants program.

   Pfizer Foundation
          http://www.pfizer.com
          Grants under $10,000 can be requested for K-12 science and math
          projects dealing with teacher training, informal science and
          math resource providers, and technology applications in the
          science and math classroom. Applications may be submitted at any
          time.

                Pfizer Foundation
                235 East 42 Street
                MS 235-11-11A
                New York , NY
                (212) 733-4250     Fax: (212) 573-2883

   Philip Jelley, L.J. and Mary C. Skaggs Foundation
          The L.J. and Mary C. Skaggs Foundation funds environmental
          education projects, especially those dealing with the ecology,
          species survival, and resource management. Grants range from
          $5,000 to $60,000.

                Philip Jelley, L.J. and Mary C. Skaggs Foundation
                1221 Broadway
                21st Floor
                Oakland , CA

   Phillips Petroleum Foundation's Environmental Partnerships
          The Phillips Petroleum Foundation's Environmental Partnerships
          program has committed $230,000 to underwrite school and
          community-based projects in the area of environmental education.
          One year projects dealing with such topics as water quality,
          wildlife and habit, reclamation of public parks and school
          yards, recycling, and general environmental science are eligible
          for grants of $500 to $5,000.

                Phillips Petroleum Foundation
                Environmental Partnerships Awards
                Phillips Building, 16th Floor
                Bartlesville , OK
                (918) 661-9072

   Preparing Tomorrow's Teachers to Use Technology Grants
          http://www.ed.gov/teachtech/
          Developing future teachers who know how to use modern learning
          technologies to improve student learning is a major challenge
          facing our nation's teacher preparation system. PT3 grants
          support innovative program improvements to prepare
          technology-proficient educators for 21st century schools.

   A Proposal Writing Short Course
          http://fdncenter.org/onlib/shortcourse/prop1.html
          A Proposal Writing Short Course from the Foundation Center is a
          guide to writing grants. The site leads you step by step through
          the process with lots of helpful information.

   Rural Electrification Administration
          The REA awards $10 million in grants for projects using computer
          networks and telecommunications in the classroom. Grants range
          from $10,000 to $50,000 and can be used to buy equipment or
          software. Deadlines are October and January.

                Blaine Stockton
                Rural Electrification Administration
                (202) 720-9552

   SchoolGrants: Grants and Opportunities for K-12 Schools
          http://www.schoolgrants.org/
          The purpose of SchoolGrants is to provide resources for
          children, teachers/educators, and K-12 schools. Their goal is to
          contribute to the common task of improving schools and programs
          for the children served by those schools. The most good for the
          most kids is their commitment and primary aim.

   Schools Online
          http://www.projectneat.org/toc.html
          If you need help getting your school connected to the Internet,
          visit this site. Schools Online provides technical support,
          equipment and funding for school's having a difficult time
          getting connected.

   Science and Mathematics Consortium for Northwest Schools
          http://www.col-ed.org/smcnws/
          The Science and Mathematics Consortium for Northwest Schools is
          one of the ten "Regional Eisenhower Consortia" established by
          Congress and administered by the U.S. Department of Education.
          The intent of this web site to be used by teachers and other
          educators to: 1) access information and resources that may be
          time-consuming to find elsewhere; and 2) enhance their ability
          to teach mathematics and science. The site includes lesson
          plans, grant information and much more.

   Searching For Scholarships
          http://www.webcom.com/excelle/
          This site is a Primer on the General Search Process, and on the
          Scholarship Search Service Industry.

   Shell Oil Co. Foundation
          Science and math are the primary interest areas for Shell Oil
          Foundation's grants to educational agencies. Roughly $6.5
          million per year goes into the support for schools and community
          based organizations. The foundation gives priority to national
          programs and schools located in communities in which Shell Oil
          has a significant presence.

                J. Doherty
                Shell Oil Co. Foundation
                PO Box 1099
                Two Shell Plaza
                Houston , TX

   SNET
          SNET funds only in Connecticut approximately $500,000 per year
          for education and technology.

   Sprint Foundation
          http://www.sprint.com/sprint/overview/commun.html
          The Sprint Foundation supports projects that foster school
          reform by looking at ways of preparing students for success in
          the workplace, through use of new technologies and
          communications media, and by innovative approaches to the
          enhancement of teachers' skills. Schools and other
          education-related non-profit agencies can apply for Sprint
          Foundation grants--- with approximately $500,000 available
          annually.

                Dan Forsythe
                Sprint Foundation
                2330 Shawnee Mission Parkway
                Westwood , KS
                (913) 624-3343

   Starbucks Foundation
          http://www.starbucks.com/company/community.asp
          Starbucks Foundation Literacy Grants awards mini grants of $1000
          and opportunity grants range up to $10,000. Mini grant
          applications are available from local Starbucks stores or
          regional marketing offices, opportunity grant guidelines are
          available from Starbucks Foundation

   Stone Foundation for Computers in Classrooms
          The Stone Foundation will be donating CD-ROM equipment to
          libraries and offering grants for training and curriculum
          development in a $40 million dollar pilot program. Elementary
          and secondary schools can be included by submitting a two-page
          proposal on how students can benefit from information technology
          in the classroom.

                Blake Cabot
                C.E. Stone Foundation
                Cudaback Strategic Communications
                11B Mt. Auburn St.
                Cambridge , MA
                (617) 661-6330

   Student Services
          http://web.studentservices.com/
          Start by setting up a personalized profile that will match your
          specific skills, and abilities, and interests to fastWEB's
          database of over 400,000 scholarships. Just complete six simple
          steps to get immediate results on-line!

   Super Science Grants
          Small grants for the purchase of classroom science equipment are
          available from the Super Science, a California publication
          company. Awards from the Innovative Science Teachers Grants
          program typically are for amounts up to $500.

                Super Science
                Box 7732
                Menlo Park , CA
                Grant@SuperScience.com
                (415) 854-4237

   TeacherUniverse
          http://www.teacheruniverse.com
          Teacher Universe provides instructional technology planning,
          professional development, instructional tools, year-long
          curricula, and career and life services.

   tech.Learning
          http://www.techlearning.com/content/contest/
          Tech.Learning is a site that keeps track of grants and contests
          along with funding resources and tips.

   Telecommunications and Information Infrastructure Assistance Program
          Grants
          Designed primarily "to promote the goals of development and
          widespread availability of advanced telecommunications
          technologies" and "to support the advancement of an advanced
          nationwide telecommunications and information infrastructure."
          Approximately $26 million is available and applications are due
          May of each year.

                Department of Commerce
                National Telecommunications and Information Administration
                14th and Constitution Ave. N.W.
                Washington , DC
                tiiap@ntia.doc.gov
                (202) 482-2048

   ThinkQuest
          http://www.thinkquest.org/teach/index.shtml
          ThinkQuest is an annual contest for students grade 7-12 to use
          the Internet as a collaborative, interactive teaching and
          learning tool. Awards can total over $1,000,000. The site also
          includes projects, lesson plans and educational resources.

   Times Mirror Foundation
          The Times Mirror Foundation provides eduvcational grants in the
          states of California, Colorado, Connecticut, Washington, D.C.,
          Illinois, Massachusetts, Maryland, Missouri, New York,
          Pennsylvannia and Texas.

                Cassandra Malry
                Times Mirror Foundation
                Times Mirror Square
                Los Angeles , CA
                (213) 237-3945

   Toshiba America Foundation
          Most interested in programs related to improvements in the
          teaching of science, mathematics and technology. The focus is on
          student-based projects in grades 7-12. Grants range from $4,000
          to $30,000 with a $9,600 average. Grants of $5,000 or less are
          made throughout the year. Larger grants are decided in March and
          September. No formal application, but you must follow a specific
          outlins and format. Deadlines are February 1 and August 1.

                Robyn T. Calasti
                Toshiba America Foundation
                Suite 4100
                1251 Avenue of the Americas
                New York , NY
                (212) 596-0600

   Toyota TAPESTRY
          http://www.nsta.org/programs/toyota.htm
          Toyota TAPESTRY is one of the largest national K-12 science
          teacher grant programs. It is funded by Toyota Motor Sales,
          U.S.A Inc. and administered by the National Science Teachers
          Association. TAPESTRY provides 50 up to $10,000 one-year grants
          to science teachers for innovative classroom science projects in
          the field of physical science application or environmental
          education. Applications and more information are available
          annually in August. The deadline to submit applications is
          mid-January

                Toyota TAPESTRY
                tapestry@nsta.org
                (800) 807-9852

   Toyota TIME
          http://www.nctm.org/about/toyota/index.html
          Toyota TIME, Toyota's Investment in Mathematics Excellence, is a
          teacher grant program for K-12 teachers of mathematics. It is
          funded by Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A., Inc. and is administered by
          the National Council of Teachers of Mathematics. TIME provides
          35 up to $10,000 two-year grants to mathematics teachers. In
          addition to the funding, the TIME grant includes a summer
          professional development seminar. Applications and more
          information are available annually in August. The deadline to
          submit applications is mid-January.

                Toyota TIME
                toyotatime@nctm.org
                (888) 573-TIME

   Toyota USA Foundation
          Promising K-12 math and science improvement projects might try
          to tap into the $1.2 million fund that the Toyota USA Foundation
          has available annually. Higher institutions, trade schools, and
          non-profit agencies are eligible to apply for grants. K-12
          schools can't apply directly for grants but can take part in
          activities proposed by eligible agencies. Single and multi-year
          grants are awarded.

                Toyota USA Foundation
                19001 South Western Avenue
                Torrence , CA
                (310) 618-6766

   Travelers Foundation
          Early childhood improvement projects and K-12 projects which
          help young people will receive about half of the Travelers
          Foundation total grant funding this year. No deadlines.

                (212) 816-8884

   U.S. Bancorp Grants
          School workers in Oregon, Idaho, and Washington (also CA, NV,
          and UT) can apply through their local U.S. Bancorp branch office
          (U.S. Bank and West One Bank) for funds to support community
          service and education projects.

                Linda Wright
                U.S. Bancorp Grants
                111 Southwest Fifth
                Suite 1030
                Portland , OR
                (503) 275-5776

   The U.S. Department of Education
          http://www.ed.gov/Technology/
          The U.S. Department of Education is implementing the Technology
          Literacy Challenge through a two-part strategy consisting of the
          "Technology Literacy Challenge Fund" and "Technology Innovation
          Challenge Grant." To find out more about how these two
          initiatives are strengthening the capacity of local
          partnerships, go to the U.S. Department of Education home page.

   U.S. Department of Education Technology Grants
          http://www.ed.gov/Technology
          The U.S. Department of Education is implementing the Technology
          Literacy Challenge through a two-part strategy consisting of the
          "Technology Literacy Challenge Fund" and "Technology Innovation
          Challenge Grant". To find out more about how these two
          initiatives are strengthening the capacity of local
          partnerships, go to the U.S. Department of Education home page.

   U.S. News Online
          http://www.usnews.com
          U.S. News Online feature News & Views, Colleges & Careers, News
          You Can Use, Forum and This Weeks Issue and Financial Aid are
          some of the topics on this site.

   US West Homeroom
          http://www.uswesthomeroom.com/
          This site, maintained by US West, contains several educational
          resources. They also provide information about funding such as
          the Universal Service Fund.

   Wells Fargo Foundation
          Grants from $500 to $1 million are available from the Wells
          Fargo bank for K-12 school programs in the Northwest states
          where Wells Fargo does business --- including Idaho, Oregon,
          Alaska, and Washington. (Projects in AZ, CA, CO, NV, NM, and UT
          are also supported.) The Foundation is looking especially for
          projects that increase student performance levels in reading,
          writing, and math and those that provide professional
          development for teachers. Wells Fargo is also interested in
          applications that promote parent, business, and community
          participation in school improvement initiatives.

                Tim Hanlon
                Wells Fargo Foundation
                345 California St.
                San Francisco , CA
                (415) 396-3567     Fax: (415) 296-9298

   Westinghouse Foundation
          http://www.westinghouse.com
          Westinghouse supports projects that strengthen science and math
          education in the public schools.

                Westinghouse Foundation
                Westinghouse Electric Corporation
                11 Stanwix St.
                Pittsburgh , PA
                (412) 642-3017

   WMX Technologies, Inc.
          Projects dealing with education, the environment, and the
          community might receive support from WMX Technologies. Projects
          that win support are usually in the $1,000 - $25,000 range.

                WMX Technologies, Inc.
                Community Investment Office
                3003 Butterfield Rd.
                Oak Brook , IL
                (630) 572-3107

   Xerox Foundation
          The Xerox Foundation provides educational grant opportunities.
          For information, contact the following address.

                Joseph M. Calahan
                Xerox Foundation
                P.O. Box 1600
                Stamford , CT
                (203) 968-3333
     __________________________________________________________________

                          Back to Funding Resources

        SAMI Home | Teacher Help | Math Resources | Science Resources
     Classroom Resources | Freebies | Funding | Other Resources | Search
     __________________________________________________________________

     Support for continuation of SAMI is provided by Los Alamos National
                                 Laboratory.

         L O S   A L A M O S   N A T I O N A L   L A B O R A T O R Y
      Operated by the University of California for the US Department of
                                   Energy

       LANL | www@lanl.gov | Help | Copyright  UC 2001 | Disclaimer
