http://www.trade.wa.gov/whereiswa.htm

                  Washington State CTED International Trade

                            The Other Washington

                           Where is Washington Map

   Washington State's strategic location and excellent multi-modal
   transportation network make it a major center for international
   commerce and continental trans-shipment. By virtue of its position, the
   state enjoys a favorable trade advantage. It is located midway between
   Asia and Europe, and are closer than California ports by one or two
   days of travel. Located on the Puget Sound, the Pacific Coast, and the
   lower Columbia River, their cost-effective locality is an attractive
   asset offering considerable savings to Washington State businesses.

   Washington State boasts 76 public ports, three international airports,
   numerous regional airports, and well-maintained highways and railroads
   that transport goods to the major East Coast markets faster than other
   points of entry on the West Coast. This transportation infrastructure
   was a major reason why the total value of two-way pass through trade
   reached $104.4 billion in 1998.

   The 76 public ports in Washington State handle containerized, break
   bulk and specialized cargoes such as logs, grain and other commodities.
   Washington State ports are approximately one day closer to Asia than
   ports farther south on the West Coast and are the closest ports to the
   Russian Far East. Together, the Ports of Seattle and Tacoma are the
   second largest container load center in North America after Los
   Angeles/Long Beach, and the ninth largest in the world. The
   Columbia/Snake River system provides efficient, cost-effective
   transportation extending 352 miles inland.

   Seattle-Tacoma International Airport and Spokane International Airport
   provide scheduled international air service, and Bellingham, Boeing
   Field (Seattle), Grant County International, Port Angeles and Yakima
   airports have international carrier capabilities. Oak Harbor, the
   Tri-Cities, Walla Walla and Wenatchee operate regional airports. At
   Seattle-Tacoma International Airport, U.S. and foreign carriers offer
   passenger and cargo service to international destinations worldwide.

   Burlington Northern Santa Fe and Union Pacific Railroads, along with
   the 14 local service railroads, connect 114 terminal points and over
   4,000 miles of track within the state to every major city in the U.S.
   The Port of Tacoma operates its own intermodal rail facility and
   dockside-to-mainline switching rail, and provides double-stack service
   for shippers.

   Three major interstate highways, I-5, I-90 and I-82 connect Washington
   State to the major markets in the Midwest, East and Southern
   California. Shipping distances to the Midwest and northeast states are
   shorter than from other coastal cities. Washington State products are
   delivered to the Midwest in three to four days and the East Coast in
   five days or less via truck. Overland shipping time to San Francisco is
   one day and to Los Angeles, two days. Washington State ranks among the
   top 10 states in interstate freight tonnage, resulting in favorable
   negotiated rates.

   Hundreds of freight forwarders and customhouse brokers, who can make
   arrangements to move cargo into or out of the state, offer their
   services throughout the state. Some are single offices, while others
   are part of a larger network.

   Fading Marquis Banner showing three lines of text


     Home  What We Do Programs Foreign Contract Representatives   News &
    Events   Where is Washington  Why is Trade Important   Foreign Trade
      Zones Trade Statistics Press Releases Ports  Economic Development
      Council's  Consulates  Info & Resources   Financing Import/Export
    Guide   NASDA Listing   Publications  Washington at a Glance  Intern
     Program Employment Did you know? Sister Cities Contact Us   Access
    Washington  CTED Home   Search   Info Request   Disclaimer & Privacy
                                  Statement

     Web site designed and maintained by Jennifer Williams, e-mail with
                 questions or comments about this web site.
        Copyright © 2001 Washington State Office of Trade & Economic
                                 Development

                        Last modified: July 20, 2001

               Access Washington             [otedlogoblk.gif]
