http://dcparc.nci.nih.gov/Documents/aea.doc

   Actual Expense Allowance (AEA) (HOTEL) Actual Expense Allowance (AEA):
   Travelers unable to secure lodging for a cost equal to or near the
   Government per diem rate, may request authorization of additional
   funds, for specific travel assignments and under unusual circumstances
   to defray the cost of more expense lodgings by the Executive Officer.
   SAMPLE AEA REQUEST: Prepare on NIH or IC letterhead paper. Date: June
   7, 2002 To: Name of Executive Office, (IC) Through: Administrative
   Officer Subject: Request for Actual Expense Allowance (AEA) Hotel
   (Travel Order No: WVC12340) From: Traveler's Name and Title Requesting
   approval of actual subsistence expenses for lodging not to exceed 300%
   of Government per diem for New Orleans, LA. I will be presenting the
   talk, `` `` at the meeting for `` `` and staying in the conference
   hotel. Current per diem for New Orleans is: lodging $89.00 and M&IE
   $42.00. Actual Expense room rate will be $142.00 per night for the
   period of August 24 - 28, 2001. M&IE will remain at Government per diem
   rate. Following is a comparison of three other hotels in the immediate
   vicinity of the meeting site: New Orleans Ambassador $135.00; Bourbon
   Street Marriott $132.00; and The Hilton Suites $125.00. Factoring in
   one to two round-trip taxis per day to the conference hotel would
   result in a cost to the Government higher than the requested $140.00
   lodging. Traveler's signature/Date Approved Disapproved Executive
   Officer Name/IC - Date JUSTIFICATION (NON-CONTRACT CARRIER) Situations
   that May Require Justification: Administrative offices require
   justification statements for any of the following travel situations:
   Use of Rental Car Use of a GSA Vehicle Use of a POV instead of a Common
   Carrier Use of a Non-Contract Carrier ticket Use of other than Coach
   Fare Carrier tickets. SAMPLE JUSTIFICATION REQUEST: Prepare on NHI or
   IC letterhead paper. Date: June 7, 2001 To: Name of Executive Office,
   (IC) Through: Administrative Officer Subject: Request for Justification
   for Non-Contract Carrier (Travel Order No: WVC12345) From: Traveler's
   Name and Title Requesting approval for a Non-Contract Carrier this is
   necessary due to the availability of contract flights, and location of
   the site CITY, STATE. Airport is the closest airport within miles of
   airport to . Booked the return flight with this same carrier as to
   return at a reasonable time. Flight will depart on August 24, 2001 on
   Delta flight #4146 out of BWI airport to arrive in CITY, STATE
   connecting at 4:34pm. Then depart CITY, STATE Delta flight #845 at
   5:45pm and Arrive BWI airport at 7:45pm. This will allow some time to
   pick up luggage and drive or catch a taxi to residence by 9:30 or
   10:00pm. Allowing a reasonable amount of time to rest and report to
   work the next day. Traveler's signature/Date Approved Disapproved
   Executive Officer Name/IC - Date JUSTIFICATION (RENTAL CAR) Situations
   that may require Justification: Administrative offices require
   justification statements for any of the following travel situations:
   Use of Rental Car Use of a GSA Vehicle Use of a POV instead of a Common
   Carrier Use of a Non-Contract Carrier ticket Use of other than Coach
   Fare Carrier tickets. SAMPLE JUSTIFICATION REQUEST: Prepare on NHI or
   IC letterhead paper. Date: June 7, 2001 To: Name of Executive Office,
   (IC) Through: Administrative Officer Subject: Request for Justification
   for Rental Car (Travel Order No: WVC12346) From: Traveler's Name and
   Title Requesting approval for Rental Car in Albany, NY. Albany, NY is
   the closest airport to Cooperstown, NY, which is about 75 miles from
   Albany, NY. Taxi Service with Bill's Taxi is the only taxi service from
   Albany to Cooperstown round trips $130.00. Rental Car: Budget Rental
   Car (one day rental) (price includes all sur charges and taxes $49.75,
   Gasoline (estimate) $20.00 Total $69.75. Estimated Savings to
   Government by use of Rental Car $60.28. Rental car companies contacted
   for lowest price in addition to Budget: Alamo, Avis, Dollar, Hertz and
   National. Traveler's signature/Date Approved Disapproved Executive
   Officer Name/IC - Date
