http://www.t10.lanl.gov/angel/

   [angel.jpeg]

                                Angel E. García

   Theoretical Biology and Biophysics Group
   T10 MS K710
   Los Alamos National Laboratory
   Los Alamos, NM 87545
   Phone: (505)665-5341
   FAX: (505)665-3493 email: angel@t10.lanl.gov

  Employment:

   Staff Member, Theoretical Biology and Biophysics Group, Los Alamos
   National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico, USA. 1989-present
   Section Leader for Structural Biology, Theoretical Biology and
   Biophysics Group, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New
   Mexico, USA. 1991-present

  Education:

   B.S. (Physics) University of Puerto Rico, Rio Piedras, Puerto Rico,
   1978
   M.S. (Physics) University of Puerto Rico, Rio Piedras, Puerto Rico,
   1981
   Ph.D., Theoretical Physics, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY, 1987

  Professional Activities:

   Elected Member of the Executive Committee, Division of Biological
   Physics , American Physical Society, Term: March 1996 - 1999.

   Fellow of the American Physical Society

  Research Interests:

  Theoretical and computational aspects related to biomolecular dynamics and
  statistical mechanics.

   My main reaserch objectives are to understand the dynamics and
   stability of biomolecules. I have developed a method for extracting
   molecule's optimal dynamical coordinates (MODC) that best describe the
   biomoleule's fluctuations. These modes are non-linear in the sense that
   multiple basins of attraction are sampled during a molecular dynamics
   trajectory.

   Another aspect of my reasearch has been to develop Potentials of Mean
   Force that describe a biomolecule's hydration and ionic interactions.
   Our first application of the PMF approcah to describe the
   electrostatics of DNA stability, succesfully described ionic
   concentration and temperature dependence of salt-driven structural
   transitions of DNA oligomers. The application of the PMF to describe
   the structural hydration of biomolecules reproduces the hydration
   patterns of high resolution DNA and protein crystals. Currently the PMF
   approach is being extended to calculate conformational free energies.

Ongoing Projects:

   Protein Folding

     Beta sheet-- Minimalist Model

     Protein Dynamics:

       Allosteric effects of cAMP on CRP

     Non Linear Dynamics on Crambin

     Collective Motions in cytochrome c

     Nucleosome Dynamics
   Biomolecular Hydration
   Nucleic Acids Structure and Dynamics

   Recent Publications:

     If you have comments or suggestions, email me at angel@t10.lanl.gov
