http://iip.gsfc.nasa.gov/nra_98/nra.html

                        Instrument Incubator Program

                         NASA RESEARCH ANNOUNCEMENTS

First NRA: Instrument Incubator Program

   This first in a series of periodic IIP NRAs was released by the Office
   of Earth Science on April 20, 1998. The full text is available at the
   Office of Earth Science website under "ESE Research Announcements."

   The NRA is broad in its scope both in the breadth of the measurement of
   Earth system science parameters to be considered and in the flexibility
   to address the measurement techniques and related instrumentation
   associated with these techniques. All research areas described in the
   Mission to Planet Earth Science Research Plan (September 1996) can be
   considered. There are five research areas described in this plan:
   Land-Cover and Land-Use Change and Global Productivity Research,
   Seasonal-to-Interannual Climate Variability and Prediction, Natural
   Hazards Research and Applications, Long-Term Climate: Natural
   Variability and Change Research, and Atmospheric Ozone Research.

   This NRA solicits analytical studies, lab demonstrations, field
   demonstrations, instrument requirements analysis, instrument design,
   and engineering model construction for innovative measurement
   techniques which have the highest potential to meet goals of the IIP
   and the measurement capability requirements of the Office of Earth
   Science. Successful proposers must present concepts which have great
   potential for enabling new science measurements and/or reducing
   instrument cost, size, mass, and resource use. These concepts are
   expected to be immature with the associated developmental risk, and
   proposals are expected to address the issue of risk reduction.

   An instrument design concept should be produced as a deliverable
   product. Laboratory and airborne activities may be funded and are
   expected to produce a working instrument or specific instrument
   subsystems. Entry and exit points are defined by the proposer; however,
   the exit point should advance the technology readiness level far enough
   that the measurement technique can compete successfully in future
   announcements of opportunity. The total proposed period of performance
   should not exceed 36 months.

                            Back to IIP Homepage
