http://www.ohio.doe.gov/ohstratplan.pdf

   "WHAT GETS MEASURED GETS DONE" Our Road Map for Excellence in
   Environmental Restoration and Employee / Community Transition Ohio
   Field Office STRATEGIC PLAN 1997- 2005 January 2001 Message From the
   Manager To All Employees Ohio Field Office Vision: "We will achieve,
   for all our sites, an environmentally restored end state which serves
   the communities= needs, and we will do this within a decade" - 1995 As
   we enter the 21st century, we are turning the Ohio Field Office vision
   into reality. We have made significant progress, but challenges still
   lie ahead. We cannot rest on our past successes, but must energetically
   and creatively move forward to realize our vision. We will successfully
   realize our Vision, only if we hold certain critical values. To this
   end, we value: * ALL PEOPLE: their safety, environment, and health;
   their diversity, concerns and aspirations * INTEGRITY: throughout the
   workforce * CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT: of ourselves and work processes;
   innovation * OPENNESS: to everyone, everywhere; open dialogue *
   CUSTOMERS/COMMUNITY RELATIONSHIPS: responsive and responsible
   stewardship for the projects; accountability to our customers *
   TEAMWORK: fostering trusting relationships internally and with
   stakeholders; leadership, empowerment, and accountability *
   CONTRACTORS/SUPPLIERS: who share and work consistently with these
   values Part of our vision is to Aserve our communities= needs.@ That
   means the public is part of our process. Public and stakeholder
   involvement will be proactively sought through the planning and
   decision making processes, with each site tailoring its public
   participation program to meet the specific needs of its public. Ohio
   sites will use task forces, advisory boards, standing committees,
   public meetings and various other communication mechanisms. The Ohio
   Field Office vision is supportive of and complementary to the Office of
   Environmental Management (EM) Vision and Principles that have guided
   our activities. Environmental Management Vision Within a decade, the EM
   program will complete cleanup at most sites. At a small number of
   sites, treatment will continue for the few remaining waste streams.
   This unifying vision will drive budget decisions, sequencing of
   projects, and actions taken to meet program objectives. EM will
   implement this vision in collaboration with regulators and
   stakeholders. Ohio Field Office Strategic Plan (1998-2005) Page 1 of 28
   Principles Achieving the vision, will be guided by the following seven
   principles: * Manage and eliminate the most urgent risks * Reduce
   mortgage and support costs to free up resources for further risk
   reductions * Protect worker health and safety * Reduce the generation
   of waste * Create a collaborative relationship between Department of
   Energy and its regulators and stakeholders * Focus technology
   development on cost and risk reduction * Enhance cross-site integration
   of waste treatment and disposition To achieve the vision, we have
   developed a road map, the Ohio Strategic Plan. This plan defines our
   path to achieve an Aenvironmentally restored end state,@ within the
   framework of our values and EM=s Seven Principles, by the year 2005.
   The strategic plan is a living document and from time to time will be
   updated to reflect the fact that schedules will change; budgets will
   change; priorities will change; initiatives will come and go. The
   Department of Energy has undergone a major cultural and programmatic
   shift as it moved from the secrecy of nuclear weapons production to
   clean-up as our major mission. We have moved from localized
   environmental, health and safety self-regulation to compliance with
   national and international standards. We have also experienced drastic
   cuts in our projected budgets because of aggressive initiatives to
   balance the national budget. While these changes have been challenging
   and difficult, they have been good for us and for our major customers,
   the U.S. citizenry. The Department, with support from the Congress, is
   closing sites to reduce long-term facility costs. The Ohio field Office
   must continue to institute strategies and business practices that
   result in reduced environmental risk and greater cost efficiencies, if
   we are to maintain the trust and support of our stakeholders and the
   American Public. We believe in prompt site restorations by workers who
   are familiar with our plants and the scope of their problems. Beginning
   in 1995, the Ohio Field Office and its contractors embarked upon a new
   journey toward a more aggressive plan - one that drives Ohio beyond the
   small savings that can be achieved by process improvements. We sought
   productivity jumps of 100-200% that would need a major paradigm shift.
   Armed with the knowledge that some U.S. companies are achieving major
   breakthroughs with shifts of this kind, we committed ourselves to a new
   Ohio field Office vision. All five Ohio projects have re-engineered
   major activities to radically improve productivity. Re-engineering and
   continuous improvement of our processes are now integrated into daily
   activities as we continually search for better ways of doing business
   including the infusion of new technology into our day-to-day
   activities. The end of the Ohio Field Office is clearly in sight. This
   Strategic Plan and our Project Baselines provide the approaches that
   will get us there. The end result will be a positive future for our
   local communities and for ourselves. The Ohio office is characterized
   by a philosophy of doing what makes sense, a Acan-do@ spirit, and by
   demonstrating through our actions that Safety is our number one
   priority. In addition, this office honors and lines up to its
   commitments, always with the goal of coming in ahead of schedule and
   under budget. At the end of each workweek, each of us should be able to
   identify what we did to contribute to the success of meeting our
   commitments. Ohio Field Office Strategic Plan (1998-2005) Page 2 of 28
   Rewarding the employees who finish the vision is a top priority of the
   Managers Office. Because we can be counted on to deliver on our
   commitments, and we have skills that will be needed in the next
   century, our personal futures after the closure of the office remain
   bright. The talents we each have along with our demonstrated ability to
   complete projects with positive attitude help ensure our futures. While
   there will be many forms of assistance that will facilitate pathways to
   future opportunities, each of us must take personal responsibility for
   managing our futures. In the government, success and completion seem to
   be the exception rather than the rule. I am excited over the
   possibility that here at Ohio we have a very real opportunity to
   succeed and complete our tasks. Each day we see progress, but progress
   only comes with your involvement and support. I am proud to join you in
   being a member of a team that will be the first in the DOE complex to
   finish what many have started: environmental restoration of sites at
   Ashtabula, Columbus, Fernald, Miamisburg and West Valley. Susan R.
   Brechbill Manager Ohio Field Office Strategic Plan (1998-2005) Page 3
   of 28 The Ohio Field Office EM Projects The Ohio Field Office sustains
   project activity at the following five locations: * Ashtabula, Ohio *
   Columbus, Ohio * Fernald, Ohio * Miamisburg, Ohio * West Valley, New
   York A brief summary of the history and current activities underway for
   each project is provided in the following pages. Ohio Field Office
   Strategic Plan (1998-2005) Page 4 of 28 The Ashtabula EM Project (AEMP)
   Project Description The Ashtabula Environmental Management Project, the
   site formerly known as Reactive Metals, Inc. (RMI) Extrusion Plant, is
   located in northern Ashtabula County, Ohio, about 5 kilometers (three
   miles) northeast of the center of the City of Ashtabula and
   approximately .6 kilometers (one mile) south of Lake Erie. The site is
   in a sparsely populated highly industrialized area. Several chemical
   production and metal conversion plants are located nearby. From 1962
   through 1990, the RMI Titanium Company operated a government-owned 3850
   ton extrusion press for the DOE at the Extrusion Plant site to process
   depleted, normal, and slightly enriched (# 2.1 weight U235) metallic
   uranium into tubes and closed-die forged billets for the Department of
   Energy (DOE) weapons program plutonium and tritium reactors. In
   addition to metallic uranium, relatively small experimental quantities
   of thorium were extruded into tubes during the late >60's. During a
   portion of its operational history, the Extrusion Plant also performed
   work for the commercial sector and for the Department of Defense (DoD)
   under an U. S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) license (No.
   SMB-602). From 1962 to 1987 DOE work was performed under prime contract
   to the U.S. DOE and its predecessor agencies. In 1987, the RMI Titanium
   Company became a subcontractor to Westinghouse Materials Company of
   Ohio (WEMCO), the operating contractor for the DOE Fernald Feed
   Materials Production Center (FMPC) located at Fernald, Ohio. Through
   years of processing uranium for the DOE at the RMI facility, portions
   of the site and immediately adjacent off-site areas became contaminated
   with low-level radioactive, hazardous, and mixed wastes. Contaminants
   of concern include uranium, technitium-99, and trichlorethylene (TCE).
   The current area extent of the AEMP is 9.9 hectares (24.5 acres); 1
   hectare (2.5 acres) is owned by the City of Ashtabula and the remaining
   8.9 hectares (22 acres) is owned by the RMI Titanium Company (RMI). At
   the time the site mission was changed to environmental restoration in
   1991, most of the equipment on-site and 13 of the buildings were owned
   by DOE, with the remaining buildings, equipment, and all real property
   owned by RMI. In October 1994, the Chicago Operations Office paid RMI a
   $1.5 million settlement for the right to demolish the 12 buildings
   owned by RMI. The AEMP encompasses all DOE environmental restoration
   and associated support activities at RMI. The AEMP strategic goal is to
   accomplish the project scope of work from the current baseline by
   September 2005. The scope of work includes all those activities
   necessary to: * Investigate and remediate RMI=s physical facilities and
   affected environment to the extent that the RMI license can be
   terminated and the facilities can be released for subsequent
   unrestricted use and, * Investigate and remediate the area designated
   as a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) Corrective Acton
   Management Unit (CAMU) such that closure can be attained. The AEMP also
   contains those elements necessary to maintain ongoing support for the
   environmental restoration activities, and to enable the continued safe
   operation of site facilities. Included are safe shutdown operations,
   waste management, long-term monitoring and surveillance, program
   management, base facility utilities, and support services. These
   actions will be accomplished while ensuring that: 1) site workers are
   trained and medically supervised; 2) the site is maintained in a safe,
   secure, and accessible condition; and 3) stakeholder concerns are fully
   addressed in the areas of strategic planning, project management, and
   reporting. Ohio Field Office Strategic Plan (1998-2005) Page 5 of 28
   Columbus EM Project Project Description: The Columbus Environmental
   Management Project (CEMP) consists of two separate sites located in
   central and western Franklin County, Ohio. The King Avenue (KA) site is
   located in the City of Columbus, Ohio while the West Jefferson (WJ)
   site is located approximately fifteen miles west of downtown Columbus,
   Ohio. The Columbus EM Project is a cost-share project between the U.S.
   Department of Energy (90% share) and the Battelle Memorial Institute
   (10%) share to remove radioactive contamination from Battelle multi-use
   laboratory facilities. Fifteen buildings or portions thereof, at two
   separate sites became radioactively contaminated as a result of
   performance of work under contract to DOE and predecessor agencies.
   Research conducted at Battelle=s laboratories included: uranium ore
   processing; uranium machining, fuel element fabrication; reactor
   design; irradiated fuel studies; and nuclear shipment safety. The type
   and extent of contamination varies from building to building, depending
   on the nature of nuclear research historically performed. Most of the
   contamination in laboratory and metal fabricating areas at the downtown
   King Avenue site is uranium, thorium and associated daughter products.
   The more rural West Jefferson site has a large hot cell facility and a
   decommissioned research reactor. All planned decontamination at the
   King Avenue site was completed in FY 1998. The project focus has
   shifted to the higher hazard facilities at West Jefferson and a
   five-year vision has been developed for complete remediation of the
   West Jefferson site. The Battelle Columbus Laboratories are privately
   owned. Decontamination and return of the clean facilities to Battelle
   are the last actions in the close-out of a Research and Development
   contract (W-7405-ENG-92) which was originally signed on April 16, 1943.
   Battelle is the prime contractor for the work and maintains a workforce
   of approximately 45 PE=s, including 63 sub-contractor technicians.
   Columbus EM Project Master Schedule: See Page 7 Contractor Workforce
   Composition See Page 8 Ohio Field Office Strategic Plan (1998-2005)
   Page 6 of 28 Columbus EM Project Master Schedule Ohio Field Office
   Strategic Plan Page 7 of 28 Columbus Contractor Workforce Composition
   Ohio Field Office Strategic Plan Page 8 of 28 The Fernald EM Project
   Project Description: The Fernald Environmental Management Project
   (FEMP), formerly known as the Feed Materials Production Center, is
   located about 18 miles northwest of Cincinnati, Ohio. The facility
   produced uranium metal products between 1953 and 1989 for use in
   production reactors to make plutonium and tritium at other DOE sites in
   support of the US defense programs. Uranium metal production ended in
   July 1989 and resources shifted to environmental restoration.
   Construction of the facility began in 1951, and full production started
   in 1953. Production peaked at Fernald in the early 1960's at about
   10,000 metric tons of uranium (the plant's designed production rate),
   and then declined to a low of about 1.23 metric tons in 1975. In the
   1970's, closure of the plant was under consideration; however, after
   1981, production significantly increased, and there was a rapid staff
   build-up for several years. Then, in 1988, weapon production reactors
   at DOE sites at Hanford and Savannah River were shut down and uranium
   metal was no longer needed. Production at Fernald was suspended in July
   1989 and officially ended in June 1991. The facility was renamed the
   Fernald Environmental Management Project in August 1991 to reflect its
   new mission of environmental restoration. In 1991, DOE and the USEPA
   entered into a Consent Agreement under the Comprehensive Environmental
   Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA). As part of that
   agreement a comprehensive Remedial Investigation/Feasibility Study
   (PMS) was conducted in and around Fernald to identify appropriate
   remedial actions. Environmental restoration efforts under the RI/FS
   have been divided into five Operable Units (OU), addressing specific
   areas or facilities at the site. The USEPA has approved Records of
   Decision (ROD) for all five Operable Units. The Fernald Environmental
   Restoration Management Corporation (FERMCO), a subsidiary of
   Fluor-Daniel Inc., was awarded the contract in August 1992 to take
   responsibility for the cleanup and final remediation of the Fernald
   site. FERMCO assumed responsibility for the FEMP cleanup on December 1,
   1992, and currently employs approximately 1,950 people engaged in
   environmental restoration and waste management activities. The FERMCO
   Company name was recently changed to Fluor Daniel Fernald (FDF). Since
   that time, more that 700 million gallons of uranium-contained water
   have been treated; more dm 2.76 million cubic feet of low-level
   radioactive waste has been shipped off-site for safe disposal; more
   than 9,000 tons of contaminated building materials have been
   demolished; the estimated cleanup time has been reduced from 25 years
   to 10 years; and through extensive consultations with interested
   stakeholders on final cleanup levels and future use(s) of the site, the
   overall cost of the project has been reduced by $3.1 billion from a
   Target Case of 25 years and $7.2 billion to the Vision of ten years and
   $4.1 billion. Fernald EM Project Master Schedule: See Page 10
   Contractor Workforce Composition See Page 11 Ohio Field Office
   Strategic Plan Page 9 of 28 Fernald EM Project Master Schedule Ohio
   Field Office Strategic Plan Page 10 of 28 Fernald Contractor Workforce
   Composition Ohio Field Office Strategic Plan Page 11 of 28 The
   Miamisburg EM Project (The Mound Site) Project Description: The
   Miamisburg EM Project is located at the Mound site in the city of
   Miamisburg, Ohio, in the southwest region of Ohio, approximately ten
   miles southwest of Dayton, and thirty-one miles northeast of
   Cincinnati, Ohio. The site encompasses approximately 306 acres, divided
   into two industrially zoned areas. The north area includes
   approximately 182 with about 123 structures. These structures include a
   significant number of laboratory, warehouse and administrative
   buildings, as steam generating station, and independent water supply
   and waste water treatment facilities. The site contains approximately
   371,000 square feet of office space, 111,000 square feet of warehouse
   space, 779,000 square feet of gross building area. The south area
   property includes approximately 123 acres of unimproved areas of land
   with easy access to both the adjacent north area property and to state
   roads. By federal law, the Department remains responsible for the
   environmental legacy from past operations and is in the process of
   environmental cleanup. The Mound site was acquired by the federal
   government from local land owners after World War II to build a plant
   for research, development, engineering and production of nuclear weapon
   components. Construction began in 1947 and operations started in 1948.
   Until 1995, the government-owned, contractor-operated plant provided
   process development, production engineering, manufacturing,
   surveillance, and evaluation of explosive components and other integral
   parts of nuclear weapons. The expertise of the scientists and engineers
   also supported the nation's space program and other defense activities.
   Today, the Department is continuing the acceleration of the
   environmental remediation program and is working with the community
   re-0use organization to transition the facilities, equipment,
   infrastructure, and real estate to the private sector for purposes of
   economic development of the local community. The Department has
   completed defense weapons activities at the site but continues to
   produce Radioisotope Thermoelectric Generator (RTG) products for the
   Department's Nuclear Energy Program. The vision for the Miamisburg EM
   Project is to be an environmentally clean, privately owned industrial
   park in the year 2003. A purchase agreement with the Miamisburg Mound
   Community Improvement Corporation (MMCIC) for sale of the Mound site to
   the community was signed in January 1998. As of October 1999, two
   parcels of land (which includes two buildings) have been transferred to
   the MMCIC under this sales agreement. Miamisburg EM Project Master
   Schedule: See Page 13 Contractor Workforce Composition: See Page 14
   Ohio Field Office Strategic Plan Page 12 of 28 Miamisburg EM Project
   Master Schedule Ohio Field Office Strategic Plan Page 13 of 28
   Miamisburg Contractor Workforce Composition Ohio Field Office Strategic
   Plan Page 14 of 28 The West Valley Demonstration Project Project
   Description The Western New York Nuclear Service Center (WNYNSC) is
   approximately a 3,300 acre site located near West Valley, NY, owned by
   the State of New York and administered by the New York State Energy
   Research and Development Authority (NYSERDA). From 1966 through 1972
   Nuclear Fuel Services (NFS) managed the only commercial nuclear fuel
   reprocessing facility in the United States at this site. NFS operated
   the facility in accordance with the United States Nuclear Regulatory
   Commission (NRC), Facility License CSF-1, and Docket No. 50-201. In
   1972 the facility was shut down for modifications and expansions,
   however increased federal and state environmental regulations made the
   upgrade effort too costly. NFS put the facility in safe standby and
   informed NYSERDA it would not be renewing its lease for the property
   upon its expiration in 1981. On October 1, 1980 Congress passed the
   West Valley Demonstration Project Act (Public Law 96-368) that
   authorized the Department of Energy (DOE) to carry out a nuclear high
   level waste (HLW) management demonstration project at the WNYNSC former
   reprocessing facility site. The Act directed DOE to conduct five major
   activities. 1. The Secretary shall solidify, in a form suitable for
   transportation and disposal, the HLW at the Center by vitrification or
   by such other technology that the Secretary determines to be most
   effective for solidification. 2. The Secretary shall develop containers
   suitable for the permanent disposal on the HLW solidified at the
   Center. 3. The Secretary shall, as soon as feasible, transport, in
   accordance with applicable law, the waste solidified at the Center to
   an appropriate Federal repository for permanent disposal. 4. The
   Secretary shall, in accordance with applicable licensing requirements,
   dispose of Low Level Radioactive Waste (LLW), and Transuranic Waste
   (TRU) produced by solidification of HLW under the project. 5. The
   Secretary shall decontaminate and decommission - (1) the tanks and
   other facilities of the Center in which the HLW solidified under the
   project was stored, (2) the facilities used in the solidification of
   the waste, and (3) any material and hardware used in connection with
   the project, in accordance with such requirements as the Nuclear
   Regulatory Commission (NRC) may prescribe. DOE and NYSERDA entered into
   a cooperative agreement on September 18, 1981 defining the interface
   protocol and responsibilities for each organization with respect to the
   site. DOE also signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with NRC on
   September 12, 1981 to establish the necessary interface reviews and
   concurrence required by the WVDP Act. NRC Operating License CSF-1 was
   amended to give DOE possession of the facility to carry out the
   provisions of the WVDP Act. DOE took operational control of
   approximately 200 acres of the former NFS reprocessing facility on
   February 25, 1982. Path Forward In June 1998, DOE completed the first
   phase of the project ($1.4B baseline) ahead of schedule and under
   budget. This phase encompassed the project's effort to process by means
   of vitrification approximately 85% of liquid high level waste (HLW)
   into a stable, disposal ready glass form (WVDP Act Elements #1 and #2).
   210 canisters of HLW were produced during this campaign. Ohio Field
   Office Strategic Plan Page 15 of 28 The scopes of work remaining for
   the project are associated with dispositioning waste generated by the
   project as well as facilities used by the project (WVDP Act Elements
   #3, #4 and #5). These remaining activities are significant efforts,
   highly dependent upon interagency decisions and support. Consensus
   between DOE and NYSERDA is needed regarding how final site clean-up
   will be achieved. Additionally, timely issuance of NRC decommissioning
   criteria is required. There are significant near-term activities
   required per the WVDP Act that need to be accomplished independent of
   the ROD for project completion and/or site closure and long-term
   management. These activities involve the decontamination and
   deactivation of other HLW Tank Farm, LLW processing facilities,
   disposition of some of the waste in inventory, preparatory work for HLW
   and TRU, and deactivation of the Vitrification Facility. The melter
   will remain operational through FY2001 to process as much of the
   remaining HLW tanks heels as possible. Activities are underway to
   retrieve additional High Activity Waste (HAW) from the Head End Cells
   of the former re- processing plant to prepare for future
   decommissioning. project efforts to ship LLW to disposal sites is
   continuing. The conceptual design of a Remote Handled Waste Treatment
   Facility (RHWTF) for handling/packaging of TRU waste for disposal has
   been performed, and efforts to contract design and construction of the
   facility have begun. DOE is also supporting the preparations for and
   shipment of Spent Nuclear Fuel (SNF) to the Idaho National
   Environmental and Engineering Laboratory (INEEL) in FY2001. Project
   Completion/Site Closure DOE and NYERDA jointly issued a draft
   Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) for project completion (by DOE)
   and site closure (by NYSERDA) for public comment on March 22, 1996. The
   options evaluated in the draft EIS ranged from restoring the site to a
   green field condition (approximately $8B/off-site disposal of all
   radioactive wastes), to monitoring and maintaining all waste/facilities
   indefinitely (approximately $30M/year). A Citizen Task Force (CTF) was
   initiated to openly solicit stakeholder input and address public
   concerns regarding how DOE and NYS might complete the project. In July
   1998, the CTF provided their recommendation. DOE and NYS are now in the
   process of negotiating responsibility issues between the agencies to
   agree upon a Preferred Alternative (PA) for project completion and/or
   site closure, after which efforts can begin to finalize the EIS and
   subsequently publish the Record of Decision (ROD). As part of the
   EIS/ROD development process, the project has been working with the
   Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) to establish decommissioning
   criteria for the site. NRC is a cooperating agency for the EIS and DOE
   expects that the decommissioning criteria will be provided in the final
   EIS. The July 1999 update to Accelerated Clean-up: Paths to Closure
   fully describes the set of challenges, assumptions and programmatic
   risk regarding project completion by FY2015. The plan is based on
   aggressively pursuing the required removal of SNF and TRU waste from
   West Valley to interim storage/disposal sites, thereby significantly
   reducing mortgage costs. Due to the DOE-HQ Waste Management
   Programmatic EIS ROD signed in August 1999, HLW canisters will remain
   on-site in interim storage for an indefinite period until a federal
   repository becomes available. The project is now reassessing its
   overall out year strategy for transferring the HLW canisters to
   alternative on-site interim storage given constrained resources and the
   challenges associated with the PA/EIS/ROD process. All of the
   near-term, ROD-independent activities need to be supported and all are
   highly resource dependent. Due to the unique nature of the site and the
   HLW that will remain until a federal repository becomes available in
   the future, the activities on site are considered high risk. Due to
   limited funding the project has experienced in recent history, it is
   expected that these activities will take a minimum of four to six years
   to complete. There is a high degree of confidence associated with the
   cost basis and estimates associated for this scope of work. As the
   budget cycle evolves from year to year, the project will continue to
   justify and validate its budget requests. Ohio Field Office Strategic
   Plan Page 16 of 28 In order to support and advance the mission of the
   project in the most responsible and timely manner possible, the project
   will initiate formal efforts to baseline as soon as possible after
   issuance of the ROD. DOE may be able to baseline the final phase of the
   project sooner if good consensus with the public and NYS can be
   determined following the PA discussions. West Valley Demonstration
   Project Master Schedule See Page 18 Contractor FTE Projections (FY 1999
   through FY2002) See Page 19 Ohio Field Office Strategic Plan Page 17 of
   28 West Valley EM Project Master Schedule Ohio Field Office Strategic
   Plan Page 18 of 28 West Valley Contractor Workforce Composition Ohio
   Field Office Strategic Plan Page 19 of 28 Ohio's Strategic Plan
   Hierarchy Secretary's Agreement with the President DOE Strategic Plan
   EM Management Accelerating Cleanup Commitments Paths to Closure Ohio
   Field Office Ohio Field Office Ohio Field Office Vision Strategic Plan
   Values Contractor Project Baselines Description of Plan Components:
   Ohio Field Office 10 Year Vision The primary achievement expected from
   all Ohio Field Office EM Projects. Ohio Field Office Values The
   fundamental beliefs and ideas held by the Ohio Field Office. They
   establish a standard upon which key decisions are made. The Ohio
   Performance Areas The Ohio Field Office selected five key performance
   areas to group the strategic activities necessary to achieve the
   10-year vision. The five areas of performance for the Ohio Field are
   listed below: 1. Safety Management 2. Trust and Confidence 3. Business
   Indicators 4. Mission Accomplishment and Compliance 5. Malcolm Baldrige
   Fitness Review The Ohio Field Office Ohio Field Office Strategic Plan
   Page 20 of 28 Performance Areas Safety Management Overview: Ensure the
   safety and health of the DOE workforce and members of the public, and
   the protection of the environment in all Departmental activities.
   Performance Measures: Performance Agreement between President William
   J. Clinton and Secretary of Energy Bill Richardson, Accelerating
   Cleanup, and Paths to Closure. The Ohio Field Office 2006 Plan, the OH
   ES&H Management Plan. Value and Importance to the 10 Year Vision: In
   1995, the Ohio Field Office (OH) set a goal to develop a solid attitude
   on safety. Each of our EM Projects, along with the OH matrix offices,
   drafted policies and procedures covering Environment, Safety, and
   Health (ES&H). Several safety initiatives enhanced safety in the
   workplace. We intend to continue to build on the momentum of safety
   practices that began in 1995. Integral to a solid safety culture is
   involvement of all OH personnel including both federal and contractor
   employees. To ensure that we optimize safety, our Safety Management
   System will focus on safety management, enhanced work planning that
   involves all OH personnel, and improved safety monitoring that will
   help drive fear out of the workplace and prevent accidents and mishaps,
   rather than react to them. In out years (1999 and beyond) our focus
   will include leading indicators to measure performance and prevent
   safety mishaps. The Integrated Safety Management System Our current
   practices require that OH sites comply with the OH Safety Management
   Policy, which directs all sites to maintain a safety basis, define
   requirements, ensure work planning, and perform assessments. A program
   that meets these requirements must be established and maintained
   through the operational and maintenance cycle for each project. The
   length of the cycle varies with each project due to current and
   previous missions as well as unique requirements at each project.
   Through the safety management system, we can assure that safety in the
   workplace is a paramount goal regardless of requirements. We will
   continue to implement the system by a closure process that calls for 1)
   evaluating the work to accomplish the missions, including all general
   and project-specific ES&H requirements, 2) establishing an
   authorization basis for the work at our projects, and 3) defining and
   establishing roles and responsibilities. Some form of authorization
   basis is in place at all of the projects. Establishing the Safety
   Management System has involved formal reviews and approvals changes in
   the review and approval process, and/or formal delegation of approval
   authority. The review and/or approval process including formal
   delegation of authority or changes to the review and approval process
   is planned has been completed. The Safety Management System is a
   process of continuous improvement. Ohio Field Office Strategic Plan
   Page 21 of 28 Improved Safety Monitoring To ensure that safety is
   paramount, facility representatives, technical and line management
   personnel are qualified as required by the DOE Technical Qualification
   Program. Project Managers ensure cost, schedule and budget performance
   as well as the quality of work. ES&H/Q personnel support the Project
   Managers by ensuring that risks are considered. Emphasis has been
   placed on broadening personnel qualifications in order to apply more
   performance indicators and lessons learned. Key Success Factors: The
   following key success factors and measures of success describe our most
   significant results for FY 1999 toward the Environment, Safety, Health
   and Quality Management strategic goal and objectives. 1. Implement a
   sound ESH&Q culture to guide Ohio Field Office activities. 2. Enhance
   safety through work planning and assessment. 3. Improve safety
   monitoring. As the 10-Year Vision is achieved, the systems and
   processes, which assure the safety and health of all OH workers and the
   public, will not be compromised. The accomplishment of these Key
   Success Factors ensures that OH safety systems always provide maximum
   safety assurance irrespective of the level of work being conducted as
   projects are completed and facilities are shut down. It also assures
   that safety remains invariable whenever the management and
   administration of various locations may change as we accomplish the
   Vision. Ohio Field Office Strategic Plan Page 22 of 28 Trust and
   Confidence Overview: Success for the Ohio Field Office requires that we
   build partnerships of trust with our Customers, our Stakeholders, and
   our Employees. Without their cooperation and participation, we cannot
   achieve our mission. Our customers are the people we serve: Our
   customers include citizens across the nation who may have no
   understanding or awareness of our mission. Yet, we must look out for
   their interests and conduct our operations in a way that any taxpayer
   would commend. We also have customers who we deal with on a daily
   basis. These include members of the public who come to us for
   information or services, but it also includes fellow employees who we
   serve and support. Stakeholders have a direct say in how we conduct our
   operations: Stakeholders include regulators and neighbors who are
   directly affected by our actions and special interest groups whose
   values or economic interests are affected by our operations. We are
   obligated to understand their concerns, bring them into dialogue about
   our decisions, and do our best to meet their needs and requirements to
   the degree our mission, resources and authority allow. We achieve
   nothing except through our employees: Our employees are the muscle,
   bone, and strength of this organization. Our mission and our
   relationships with customers and stakeholders depends upon employee
   loyalty, enthusiasm, and skill. Thus, the members of our organization
   must see themselves as a team working together to achieve a common
   goal. We must trust and understand each other, and see how our
   individual actions affect the common goal. The Department earns our
   loyalty to the degree it acknowledges our opinions, provides clear
   training and guidance, and sustains a rewarding environment of salary,
   benefits, recognition, and meaningful work. All employees share in the
   responsibility to create this rewarding environment. Because the Ohio
   Field Office mission will end, and our careers here end, it is
   especially important that our work, training, and personnel policies
   support transition to new careers. Value and Importance to Achieving
   the 10 Year Vision: There are two fundamental reasons for seeking trust
   and confidence. First, without it large social obstacles will arise -
   critical newspaper articles, demonstrations, legal action, and
   reductions in funding. These, in themselves, can either slow down or
   halt progress. However, the second reason is even more important.
   Without trust and confidence, even if some significant work is achieved
   on the ground, it will not be defined in the public's mind as an
   achievement, but instead a failure. When we seek cooperative
   relationships with the public we serve, our work not only becomes
   easier to accomplish, it also becomes more rewarding. Ohio Field Office
   Strategic Plan Page 23 of 28 Key Success Factors: The Trust and
   Confidence Component of the Strategic Plan is derived from the
   following Key Success Factors: 1. Ensure managers adopt public
   involvement methods as key strategy to achieve 10-year vision. 2.
   Maintain or improve cooperative relationships and dialogue among
   stakeholders for all Ohio Field Office EM projects (including local
   residents, state and federal regulators, local government officials,
   members of Congress, activists, etc.). 3. Increase the level of
   awareness and acceptance among the general public for the mission and
   approaches of the Ohio Field Office. 4. Establish an environment that
   is focused on the needs of our internal and external customers. 5.
   Encourage and reward contemporary leadership practices among all
   managers. 6. Improve the extent to which diversity is valued and used
   as a means to enhance performance. Ohio Field Office Strategic Plan
   Page 24 of 28 Business Indicators Overview: One of the primary
   responsibilities of any Federal entity is the effective and efficient
   stewardship of the taxpayer's dollar. This stewardship becomes more
   important as the availability of the financial resources decreases but
   the scope of the work remains the same or increases. Methods must be
   found to evaluate the effective and efficient use of scarce resources.
   The Environmental Management (EM) Program must continually prove itself
   worthy of continued congressional support through the Budget Request
   Process. Business measures may be reported to the OH Field Office
   Manager and the Performance Board through Quarterly Project Reviews.
   The current fiscal climate precludes DOE from completing its EM mission
   using the historical DOE business model for its Production and Research
   and Development Programs. Therefore a Strategic Plan and accompanying
   Performance Measures are needed to lay out a path to achieve a new
   business model. The Business Indicator section of this Plan articulates
   the Ohio Field Office reaction to this needed change. Value and
   Importance to Achieving the 10 Year Vision: The Ohio Field Office has
   challenged itself to an aggressive 10-year completion program. A new
   culture is necessary when addressing how we do work and how we contract
   the work. The section contains those key elements felt to be necessary
   to achieve the OH 10-year vision and how we will measure ourselves.
   Both contracting and cost management are considered vital to achieve
   the goal. Key Success Factors: The Business Indicators Component of the
   Strategic Plan is derived from the following Key Success Factors: 1.
   Support the achievement of the Ohio Field Office Vision through
   effective fiscal management. 2. Support the achievement of the Ohio
   Field Office Vision through effective acquisition and asset management
   strategies. 3. Support the achievement of the Ohio Field Office Vision
   through effective utilization of IM resources. Ohio Field Office
   Strategic Plan Page 25 of 28 Mission Accomplishment and Compliance
   Overview: The Mission Accomplishment and Compliance element includes
   both regulatory and other requirements for the day-to-day operation of
   the Ohio Field Office EM Projects. EM must be able to demonstrate
   "real" progress in terms of clean-up and site disposition. Ohio will
   focus its resources toward that end while ensuring safe operations,
   milestone completion, and the management or elimination of urgent
   risks. Mission Accomplishment measures may be reported to the OH Field
   Office Manager and the Performance Board through Quarterly Program
   Reviews. Value and Importance to Achieving the 10 Year Vision:
   Achieving regulatory milestones is a very critical element of achieving
   the Ohio Field Office Vision! If we do not focus our resources on
   achieving these milestones, we jeopardize our relationship with the
   regulators, the public and other stakeholders. By establishing goals
   and strategies for the next three to five years, this Strategic Plan
   provides a "road-map" to the successful achievement of the 10-Year
   Vision. Key Success Factors: The Mission Accomplishment and Compliance
   Component of the Strategic Plan is derived from the following Key
   Success Factor: 1. Complete regulatory milestones and other appropriate
   requirements for all Ohio Field Office EM Projects. Ohio Field Office
   Strategic Plan Page 26 of 28 Malcolm Baldrige Fitness Review Overview:
   The Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Program is a major tool for
   measuring organizational excellence at the Ohio Field Office. Every
   year we will do a fitness review following the Malcolm Baldrige
   criteria. This will be a self- assessment done by our own employees.
   The recommendation will result in a corrective action plan which will
   be tracked as part of the Strategic Plan (see Section E). This process
   will yield continuous improvements in the conduct of our operations.
   Key Success Factors 1. Improvement in results of the Malcolm Baldrige
   Fitness Review by: * Leadership * Strategic Planning * Customer &
   Market Focus * Information & Analysis * Human Resource Focus * Process
   Management * Business Results Ohio Field Office Strategic Plan Page 27
   of 28 The Assessment Process: Making the Strategic Plan A Reality The
   assessment process is the mechanism which ensures that our Strategic
   Plan becomes a credible, working document - a true roadmap to achieving
   the vision - versus one which is created and ignored until the next
   planning period. The importance of the assessment process is clear when
   one considers the following reasons. * People have a tendency to do the
   things that they know will be measured and reviewed. The old adage
   "what gets measured, gets done" is certainly true. Without a formal
   process to review our progress to the plan, we are likely to let the
   pressures of our day-to-day operations "push aside" these strategic
   issues. * The assessment process allows for changes to the plan. Our
   strategic plan has been developed against a backdrop of assumptions.
   These assumptions, coupled with the inability to accurately predict the
   future, require acceptance of the fact that the plan will need to be
   adjusted periodically over the next three to five years. For the plan
   to be credible to our employees and stakeholders, it must be adjusted
   when internal and external circumstances change. Our focus is not to
   "have a plan in place." The focus is on defining the intermediate
   actions to achieve our vision. How the Process Works: Progress against
   the Strategic Plan is reported through regular and orderly reviews. Two
   types of reviews are held: Monthly and Quarterly. Monthly Plan Reviews
   Monthly plan reviews are held by the Ohio Field Office Performance
   Board. During these reviews, the Performance Board examines the extent
   to which each strategy in the plan has been implemented. Prior to the
   meeting, each of the "Performance Area Owners" reviews the strategies
   within their respective area of ownership and assigns a status flag to
   the strategy based on the current progress against the performance
   measure(s) for the strategy. The five status flags are: 1) On-track; 2)
   Complete; 3) Warning; 4) Off-track; and 5) Strategy/performance measure
   is inappropriate. In the event that a strategy is assigned one of the
   last three flags, the owner documents the following information and
   presents it to the Performance Board at the meeting. * The major issues
   or problems that need to be discussed or resolved. * Recommendations
   for actions to be taken, including changes in timing, strategies,
   performance measures, and resource requirements. The status flag for
   each strategy - and key comments / decisions from the meeting - are
   documented by the Recording Secretary in the "Ohio Performance Plan:
   Strategies and Performance Measures." This document serves as the
   official record of progress to all strategies in the OH Strategic Plan.
   Monthly Plan Reviews are scheduled the second Tuesday of each month.
   Ohio Field Office Strategic Plan Page 28 of 28
