http://www.phila.gov/summary/licenses/index.html

   [clearpixel.gif]
                    City of Philadelphia Banner

   [clearpixel.gif] Philadelphia at Your Service Home Page Philadelphia
   Residents Page Philadelphia Business Page Philadelphia Visitors Page

[clearpixel.gif]

                                     Copyright© City of Philadelphia 2001  Terms of Use


   [clearpixel.gif]

   Search Phila.gov

   Municipal Phone Directory

   City Council

   Mayor´s Office

   Business Action Team
   Community Services
   Information Services
   Mayor´s Action Center
   Neighborhood Transformation
   People with Disabilities
   Literacy
   Commission on Aging
   Transportation
   Philadelphia Reads

   City Services

   Police
   Fire
   Streets
   Licenses and Inspections
   Inspector General
   Water
   Public Health
   Human Services
   Temporary Shelter
   Records
   Recreation

   Administration

   Anti-Graffiti Program
   Board of Pensions
   City Controller
   Commerce
   Capital Program Office
   Finance Department
   Fleet Management
   Law Department
   Managing Director
   Minority Business
   Municipal Energy Office
   Personnel
   Procurement
   Public Property
   Revenue
   Risk Management
   Treasurer´s Office
   Water Revenue

   Agencies

   Community Development
   Commercial Development
   Housing Development
   Industrial Development
   Philadelphia Airport

   Authorities

   Housing Authority
   Parking Authority
   Redevelopment Authority

   Boards

   Board of Pensions
   Revision of Taxes
   Tax Review Board
   Free Library
   School District

   Commissions

   City Commissioners
   Planning Commission
   Civil Service
   Human Relations
   Gas Commission
   Historical Commission
   Fair Housing
   Fairmount Park
   The Mayor´s Telecommunications Policy Advisory Commission
   Sinking Fund

   Justice / Legal

   Clerk of Quarter Sessions
   District Attorney´s Office
   Orphans Court
   Philadelphia Courts
   Prisons
   Public Defender
   Register of Wills
   Sheriff
   Superior Court
   Supreme Court

   City Archives - PHILS

   Please forward technical problems or comments to: webmaster@phila.gov
   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]
   Philadelphia Department of Licenses and Inspections

   For more information, visit the Licenses and Inspections´ website.

   Mission
   The Department of Licenses and Inspections (L&I) administers and
   enforces the City's code requirements--including building, fire,
   health, housing, business, and zoning regulations--for the enhancement
   of public safety. The Department is responsible for regulating the
   conduct of businesses and persons by issuing licenses, by conducting
   inspections, and by enforcing applicable codes and regulations.

   The Department also has the authority to take the lawful actions
   necessary to correct dangerous and unlawful conditions, including
   making necessary emergency repairs to properties, cleaning and sealing
   abandoned buildings, and demolishing vacant buildings that pose a
   threat to public safety. In support of its larger mission, the
   Department seeks to generate revenue to defray the cost of its
   activities through the sale of permits and licenses and by the recovery
   of costs expended for demolition and clean and seal actions.

   Department Structure
   The Commissioner directs Legislative Affairs, Public Relations and the
   Office of the Commissioner. In addition to these units, the
   Commissioner has four Deputy Commissioners and an Administrative
   Services Director responsible for the major divisions of the
   department. The divisions are Construction Services, Administration,
   Business and Regulatory Services, Neighborhood Services and Information
   Technology.

   Administrative Services provides support services for all departmental
   activities. These services include, but are not limited to: human
   resources, training, procurement, planning and budgeting.

   Neighborhood Services inspects residential units for compliance to the
   law and directs all incoming complaints to the appropriate units.
   Furthermore, it administers the abatement of lots, houses, drainage and
   roofing issues for nuisance residential properties, provides heating
   assistance to low-income citizens and coordinates all city-funded
   demolition.

   Business and Regulatory Services is responsible for ensuring commercial
   compliance to the various codes and regulating business activity.

   Construction Services is responsible for reviewing applications for
   building, electrical, plumbing, fire and zoning permits and
   coordinating permit inspections.

   Information Technology is responsible for the computerization and
   standardization of the department¹s data and provides customer service
   for the department´s computer users.

   Frequently Asked Questions
   1. How do I make a complaint and what happens next?
   Call Services and Operations at (215) 686-2463 to register a complaint.
   An inspection will be scheduled within 15 days to ensure the validity
   of the complaint.  If the complaint is valid, we will inform the
   property owner to take corrective action within a designated time
   frame. After the designated time, we will re-inspect the property. If
   no action has been taken, the property owner or responsible person may
   be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law.

   2. How do I obtain a license?
   Call the License Issuance Hotline at (215) 686-2491, and tell a
   department representative what type of business you plan to operate. We
   will instruct you on the type(s) of license(s) and any approvals
   needed, and mail you an application package complete with instructions.
   Complete the application, and submit it along with payment to:
   Licenses & Inspections
   License Issuance Unit
   1401 John F. Kennedy Boulevard, Concourse Level
   Philadelphia, PA 19102-1687

   When we receive your application, we will check for a tax account
   number. If no number is available, we will forward your application to
   the Revenue Department. The Revenue Department will forward the tax
   number to the applicant and to us.

   After verifying the tax number, we will review your application for
   completeness. If it is incomplete, we will contact you by telephone for
   the required information. Then we will forward the application to
   obtain any required approvals, and, finally, issue the requested
   license(s).

   3. How do I get a building permit?
   Detailed information on this subject is available
   here.

   The Department of Licenses and Inspections
   does not handle the following:

   Item

                                        Appropriate Agency

   Handgun Permit

                                        Philadelphia Police

   Dog License

                                        Health Department

   Block Party Permit

                                        Streets Department

   Unsanitary Conditions in a Restaurant

                                        Health Department

   Sidewalks, Potholes, Alleyways, etc.

                                        Streets Department

   Issues Regarding Tenant Eviction

                                        Fair Housing Commission

   Liquor License

                                        PA Liquor Board

   Contact Information

   Edward J. McLaughlin
   Commissioner
   (215) 686-2400

                                         Robert D. Solvibile, Sr.
                                         1st Deputy Commissioner
                                         Neighborhood Services
                                         (215) 686-2510

   David Perri P.E.
   Deputy Commissioner
   Construction Services
   (215) 686-2506

                                         Oliver G. Thornton
                                         Deputy Commissioner
                                         Information Technology
                                         (215) 686-2608

   Dominic J. Verdi
   Deputy Commissioner
   Business and Regulatory Services
   (215) 685-3730

                                         Richard L. Feldgus
                                         Administrative Services Director
                                         (215) 686-2407

   Department of Licenses and Inspections
   Municipal Services Building
   1401 John F. Kennedy Boulevard
   Room 1130
   Philadelphia, PA 19102

                                         Complaint & Inspection Request:
                                         (215) 686-2463
                                         Emergency Heat/Fuel Program:
                                         (215) 686-2590 (in season)
                                         License Information: (215) 686-2490
                                         Permit Information: (215) 686-2467
                                         Real Estate Certification:
                                         (215) 686-2466; Fax: (215) 686-2500
