http://fire.pppl.gov/FEACRPTJAN98.pdf

   Report of FESAC Panel January 1998 The DOE Office of Energy Research
   chartered through the Fusion Energy Sciences Advisory Committee (FESAC)
   a panel to "address the topic of U. S. participation in an ITER
   construction phase, assuming the ITER Parties decide to proceed with
   construction." (Attachment 1: DOE Charge, September 1996). Given that
   there is expected to be a transition period of three to five years
   between the conclusion of the Engineering Design Activities (EDA) and
   the possible construction start, the DOE Office of Energy Research
   expanded the charge to "include the U.S. role in an interim period
   between the EDA and construction." (Attachment 2: DOE Expanded Charge,
   May 1997). This panel has heard presentations and received input from a
   wide cross- section of parties with an interest in the fusion program.
   The panel concluded it could best fulfill its responsibility under this
   charge by considering the fusion energy science and technology portion
   of the U.S. program in its entirety. Accordingly, the panel is making
   some recommendations for optimum use of the transition period
   considering the goals of the fusion program and budget pressures.
   INTRODUCTION Fusion is the process that powers the stars. Harnessing
   that process to contribute to the global energy system is the vision of
   this panel and the fusion community. The pursuit of this vision also
   supports basic research and plasma science which are important in their
   own right. The U.S. Fusion Energy Sciences Program focuses on the
   scientific foundations that underpin the fusion process. The three
   specific objectives of the program, as identified the 1996 FEAC Report
   are: (1) advance plasma science in pursuit of national science and
   technology goals, (2) develop fusion science, technology, and plasma
   confinement innovations, and (3) pursue fusion energy science &
   technology as an international partner. This "three- leg" strategy has
   been endorsed by the fusion community, Congress, and the Department of
   Energy. This panel also endorses it and observes that an implementation
   plan is needed. The panel has addressed the near-term plan for the
   fusion energy science & technology objective of the program, the
   central near-term goal of which is the demonstration of a self-heated,
   energy-producing fusion plasma. The experimental study of self-heated
   plasmas has been recognized worldwide as the next frontier for fusion
   research. The panel supports this objective, both for the important
   science it involves, and as a requirement for fusion power- plant
   development. The major activity supporting this objective of the
   program is participation in the International Thermonuclear
   Experimental Reactor (ITER) Engineering Design Activities (EDA),
   consisting of physics analysis, engineering design, and supporting
   technology R&D activities. By its nature, a facility capable of
   producing a self-heated, energy- producing fusion plasma will be
   technically challenging and expensive. By working collaboratively, the
   ITER Partners (European Union, Japan, Russia, and the United States)
   have benefited through cost-sharing. Additionally, the ITER
   collaboration has increased the integration and effectiveness of the
   world fusion community during the development of the physics basis and
   the engineering design for a next-step experimental device capable of
   exploring controlled ignition and extended fusion burn of
   deuterium-tritium (D-T) plasmas. The imminent conclusion of the
   presently defined EDA makes this an appropriate time to assess our
   continued participation in ITER. Available options include the whole
   range from total withdrawal from the ITER process to full participation
   as the host country. Independent technical reviews by FESAC and all the
   partners have concluded that the ITER engineering design is a sound
   basis for the project and for DOE to enter negotiations with the
   Parties regarding construction. The panel accepts the conclusion of
   these prior in-depth reviews. If a decision to construct ITER were
   being sought today, this panel would recommend U.S. participation at an
   appropriate level. However, because construction phase financing is not
   presently available, a construction decision has been delayed, and a
   3-year transition period proposed. In the panel's view, this 3-year
   period necessitates an assessment of the proper form and scale of the
   activities that support the third objective of the overall U.S. Fusion
   Energy Sciences Program. CENTRAL RECOMMENDATIONS The ITER mission
   includes the demonstration of controlled ignition, extended fusion
   burn, and integrated power-plant technologies. The panel supports this
   mission. However, if the financial resources continue to be
   unavailable, the U.S., in collaboration with its international
   partners, should develop a set of contingency plans and should be
   willing to consider a modification of the ITER mission. In the short
   term, it is important to keep the present ITER option open. In the
   longer term, it is critically important to get a D-T burning plasma
   machine internationally approved and built. Therefore the panel's
   central recommendation is: In concert with our international partners,
   a burning plasma facility should be built at the earliest possible
   time. STRATEGIC PLAN To implement the central recommendation, we
   propose the following elements for a U.S. strategic plan for the next
   three years to pursue the third objective of the Fusion Energy Science
   Program: 1. Pursue near-term opportunities for research supporting
   energy- producing fusion plasma science using existing unique
   large-scale facilities abroad. DISCUSSION: Recent experimental and
   theoretical results point to new approaches to achieving high levels of
   energy production in tokamak plasmas, and the potential for common
   benefits provides an impetus for the U.S. to pursue this challenging
   physics research with its international partners. Continuing
   development of these advanced tokamak scenarios may provide new paths
   for cost reduction in pursuing the central recommendation stated above.
   In experimental research, we recommend increased participation in the
   large foreign experiments, JET and JT-60U. The objective is to
   establish advanced tokamak physics in large tokamaks as a design basis
   for burning plasma experiments. This effort would be supportive of
   ITER. With the recent shutdown of TFTR, there is now only one operating
   physics experiment in the world capable of conducting meaningful D-T
   burning experiments, namely the JET device in the EU. We suggest that
   the U.S. explore with our European colleagues the possibility for
   increased collaboration in JET. Enhanced U.S. participation in JT-60U
   should be discussed with our Japanese colleagues. As part of these
   collaborations, the partners should consider developing and testing
   techniques for remote experimentation on foreign fusion devices. In
   addition, we recommend an expanded effort on broad-based theoretical
   and computational activities to understand high- temperature confined
   plasmas in the energy-producing regime, in support of the international
   effort in this area. 2. Restructure the fusion energy technology
   development effort to more broadly support the fusion energy objective
   of the program. DISCUSSION: Much of the U.S. fusion technology effort
   has been devoted to ITER over the past five years because of the strong
   overlap between work carried out specifically for ITER and work that
   would be carried out under our normal fusion energy technology R&D
   activities. It is important to continue U.S. industry involvement in
   fusion technology R&D, which at the present time is largely carried out
   through the ITER EDA. The U.S. should continue to participate in those
   aspects of ITER technology R&D which are dual-purpose, in the sense
   that they are both critical for a variety of approaches to fusion
   energy and they also help complete the R&D required for the ITER
   design. In regard to the ITER design, prior technical reviews have
   concluded that the designs of most major components are now detailed
   and well integrated. Validation of the designs, however, depends on
   completion of the ITER R&D program. To derive full benefits of the EDA
   investments and reduce risks on open technical issues, these technology
   efforts should be completed or otherwise brought to an appropriate
   conclusion. In addition, the U.S. should continue to make use of
   international collaboration in fusion technology development to realize
   the full potential of fusion as an environmentally and economically
   attractive energy source. Here, non-ITER-specific fusion energy
   technology R&D should be conducted, including, for example, development
   of low activation materials. We recommend a community review to
   determine the role and scope of these technology development activities
   and their relation to existing technology activities in the rest of the
   program. 3. Continue to participate in and support the ongoing ITER
   joint design work at a lower level. DISCUSSION: To date the ITER design
   concept has been developed as an international collaboration. Two of
   the design partners, the EU and Japan, now have much larger fusion
   programs than the U.S. Continued involvement gives us the opportunity
   to participate in the construction and operation of ITER, should the
   parties decide to go forward with it. In the strategic context of the
   U.S. science-focused fusion program, our involvement in the
   construction and operation of ITER would clearly be beneficial. ITER
   joint design work includes both JCT and U.S. Home Team activities. We
   support efforts to explore opportunities for cost reduction and for
   enhanced scientific flexibility within the ITER scope. Some of these
   efforts could be carried out in conjunction with the physics research
   and technology R&D recommended above. 4. Undertake design efforts on
   lower cost fusion-energy-producing plasma concepts. DISCUSSION: Given
   the present situation where construction commitments have not been
   secured for the full-mission ITER device, we believe that it is prudent
   for the international community to examine options that involve
   reconsideration of the fundamental trade-offs between cost, risk and
   mission. This effort should be directed at examining lower- cost,
   reduced scope options in the interest of achieving a fusion-
   energy-producing plasma experiment on the fastest possible schedule.
   These options provide a contingency plan that will be necessary in the
   event that the financial commitments cannot be secured for the full-
   mission ITER machine. Design studies carried out in the past by the
   U.S. and by our international partners have explored a range of mission
   options from short-pulse ignition to ITER-like sustained burn, covering
   a cost range from $2B to the present ITER cost. These studies, with
   modifications reflecting the new experimental findings from present
   large-scale tokamaks, could form the basis for an international
   activity to develop contingency plans for building a facility. In
   preparation for this international activity, it is essential that the
   United States initiate a domestic study with broad fusion community
   involvement to explore the many options. BUDGET CONSIDERATIONS For the
   fusion energy science and technology objective of the program, we
   recommend the following annual funding allocations (FY99$) for the
   3-year plan outlined above: REC. 1: Research on Existing Large-Scale
   Facilities Abroad $10-20M (supporting energy-producing-fusion plasma
   science) REC. 2: Fusion Energy Technology Development $20-25M
   (including dual purpose technologies critical for ITER and other fusion
   approaches) REC. 3: Continued ITER Joint Design Work $15M REC. 4:
   Design Efforts on Lower Cost Concepts $5-10M (in collaboration with our
   international partners) We recommend these levels in the recognition
   that the entire fusion program is funding-limited and all three of its
   components require additional resources. Our recommendations are made
   within the context of the 1997 PCAST funding profile for fusion energy
   science research. We endorse this PCAST executive summary report and
   the FEAC 1996 program restructuring report, both of which called for a
   $200M minimum support level for the plasma science and confinement
   innovations program objectives. These objectives comprise an important
   element of the country's basic science portfolio and include: nurturing
   basic research in plasma science; supporting both alternative concepts
   and advanced tokamak physics research; and developing enabling
   technologies in support of these concept innovation efforts.
   Achievement of these objectives is essential to provide the knowledge
   needed for development of fusion energy in the long run.
