http://www.sst.nrel.gov/media_cov/bardeen.html

                       Recipient: 2001 John Bardeen Award

   The Minerals, Metals & Materials Society's Bardeen Award, established
   in l994 recognizes an individual who has made outstanding contributions
   and is a leader in the field of electronic materials.

   Alex Zunger- citation:

     For his seminal contributions to the theoretical understanding and
     prediction of "spontaneous ordering," phase-stability, and
     electronic properties of semiconductor alloys; for the impact that
     this work has had on experimental studies of electronic materials,
     and for his continued leadership in the field.

   Explanation of the physics:Bulk semiconductor alloys such as
   (GaP)[x](InP)[1-x] are known to exhibit a repulsion between the
   constituents, so they were never expected to order
   crystallographically. Indeed, they were known to form random structures
   at high temperatures and phase-separation at low temperatures. Theory
   has shown, however, that "surface reconstruction"--an almost universal
   feature of covalent surfaces--can lead to an ordered atomic arrangement
   in alloys since the alternative, (random configuration) is highly
   strained by surface dimers. Thus, strain-minimizing surface-stable
   ordered structures are frozen in-by the growth process. The lower
   symmetry of ordered structures relative to random alloys leads to
   profound changes in band gaps, optical selection rules,
   effective-masses, pressure dependence and transport properties,
   predicted by Zunger and his group starting in l984. Ordering has since
   been discovered in virtually all covalent semiconductor alloys. For
   more details see http://www.sst.nrel.gov/topics/alloy_order.html. These
   effects, plus the fact that control of ordering creates new,
   technologically-significant materials properties has led to >1000
   experimental publications in this field.

   Biography: Alex Zunger is an Institute Research Fellow and leader of
   the Solid State Theory at the U. S. Department of Energy's National
   Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL). He received his B. Sc, M.Sc and
   Ph.D education at the Tel Aviv University, Israel (PhD: l976 in
   chemical physics), and did his post-doctoral training at Northwestern
   University, Evanston, Ill. (l975-l977) and (as IBM Fellow) University
   of California, Berkeley (l977-l978). He joined the newly founded NREL
   in l978 where he established the Solid State Theory group and trained
   and collaborated, since, with 35 post-doctoral fellows. He is an author
   of 400 journal publications, including over 85 in Physical Review
   Letters and Rapid Communication. According to recent research done by
   the Institute of Scientific Information (ISI), he is the 39th most
   cited physicist out of more than 500,000 physicists examined, based on
   publications in l981-l997 in all branches of physics (his work was
   cited-8, 000 times). His work centers on development and application of
   "First-Principles" electronic structure theory of "real materials". It
   includes the development of "first-principles Pseudopotentials;
   accurate exchange-correlation functionals; the momentum-space total
   energy formalism; simultaneous relaxation of atomic positions and
   electronic wave functions; "order N" electronic structure approaches,
   and "cluster expansions" for alloy thermodynamics. These techniques
   were applied by him to metal alloys, quantum semiconductor
   nanostructures. points defects and surfaces.

     Quote: "I am honored and would like to thank my NREL post-docs and
     staff for exciting collaborations on this project: J Bernard, A.
     Franceschetti, S. Froyen, D Laks, K. Mader, R. Magri, J. L. Martins,
     T. Matilla, A. Mbaye, R. Osorio, V. Ozolins, G. P. Srivastava, D. M.
     Wood, S. H. Wei and S. B. Zhang."
