http://waiver.tasc.dot.gov/html/questions_and_answers_on_the_t.html

   u.s.dot
   Tasc_Waiver_Website
   Questions and Answers on the TASC Waiver Process

   Waiver Homepage Definitions Waiver Process Exceptions How to Request a
   Waiver Waiver Request Form Questions and Answers How Waivers Are
   Processed TASC Waivers Listings More Info
   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]
   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]
   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]
   Waiver Homepage
   Definitions
   Waiver Process Exceptions
   How to Request a Waiver
   Waiver Request Form
   Questions and Answers
   How Waivers Are Processed
   TASC Waivers Listings
   More Info

   Why was the TASC Waiver Request Process created?

   The TASC Waiver Request Process (i.e., the TASC Process)  was
   established in response to the Secretary's memorandum of October 8,
   1998, which directed each operating administration to set up a
   streamlined process to allow for waivers of its internal rules that
   would result in increased managerial and operational flexibility.  The
   TASC Process is appropriate to use to waive rules that inhibit TASC
   from delivering the best products and services possible.  Given that,
   TASC's policy is to promote the approval of all waiver requests.  In
   most instances, a request to waive a TASC internal rule will be
   approved if the waiver is expected to result in improving the way TASC
   carries out its business.

   What is a waiver?

   A waiver is an exception to a TASC internal rule, or permission to
   deviate from the way TASC might customarily carry out its business, or
   authorization to disregard a TASC requirement.

   What is a TASC internal rule?

   The term "internal rule" includes not only TASC rules, but also TASC
   policies, procedures, systems,  work processes, etc.,  which TASC uses
   and which a TASC official has the authority to waive, either in whole
   or in part; on a temporary or permanent basis.

   What is a "process owner?"

   The process owner, sometimes referred to as the "approving official,"
   is the TASC official who created or currently owns the "rule" or
   manages the process requirement(s) that you would like waived, and who
   has the authority to grant a waiver of the rule or current process
   requirements.

   What types of waiver requests cannot be approved?

   TASC is unable to approve the waiver of the following types of rules:
     * Rules that a TASC official simply doesn't have the authority to
       waive, such as legal or Government-wide regulatory requirements, or
       other requirements that have been established by, for example, an
       Executive Order, a negotiated labor agreement, a binding formal
       contract, or the "rule" of another OA.
     * Civil rights protections and anything that would adversely impact
       the operational consistency of how TASC employees and TASC
       customers, including members of the public, are treated.
     * The waiver of anything that would result in the degradation of
       TASC's mission or the mission of TASC's customer organizations.
     * The waiver of  a "discretionary management decision."  These are
       decisions that managers make in order to run their office, such as
       their decisions about workload distribution, work hours,
       telecommuting arrangements, etc.  Requests for the waiver of a
       discretionary management decision are excluded from the Process and
       therefore, cannot be approved.

   What is the "independent official"?

   The independent official serves as the process owner of the TASC Waiver
   Request Process and is  the only TASC official who can disapprove a
   waiver request.  As the "independent official," h/she is responsible
   for championing the Process and looking out for your waiver request as
   it goes through the process to make sure that everything possible is
   done to approve your request.  The Independent Official is also
   responsible for reviewing any proposed disapproval of a waiver request
   or any proposed extension of the time period permitted for processing a
   waiver request, and making the final decision on such proposals.

   Who is the "independent official"?

   Currently, the designated independent official under the TASC Waiver
   Request Process is Patricia Parrish, Principal, TASC Customer Service.
   She can be contacted by phone at (202) 366-4747; by the DOT electronic
   mail system (i.e., e-mail) at:  parrish, patricia; or you may contact
   any member of the TASC Customer Service staff at (202) 366-4747 for
   assistance.

   Who may submit a waiver request?

   Any  DOT employee, DOT organization, or any non-DOT TASC customer that
   is represented by a TASC employee who is willing to submit a waiver
   request on his/her behalf, may submit a waiver request.

   How do you submit a Waiver Request?

   If you have a new or a better idea about how TASC can provide its
   products and services, but a current TASC internal rule prevents you
   from using your idea, this is how you submit a request to waive the
   current TASC rule and obtain permission to ignore the normal process
   and do things your way:

   Step 1: Identify the process owner of the "internal rule" that has the
   authority to approve your waiver request, consult with the process
   owner, and jointly develop a mechanism for not only measuring the
   effectiveness of your proposed waiver request; but it will provide a
   mechanism for determining your requested waiver's application to other
   TASC rules or processes and for determining the length of time your
   waiver should remain in effect before reassessing its effectiveness.

   Identifying the TASC process owner is easy, particularly since the
   process owner will normally be the associated TASC principal or another
   member of his or her staff.  If you don't know who the process owner is
   and would like assistance, contact Pat Parrish, Principal, TASC
   Customer Service by phone at (202) 366-4747; by the DOT electronic mail
   system (i.e., e-mail) at:  parrish, patricia; or you may contact any
   member of the TASC Customer Service staff at (202) 366-4747 and they'll
   be happy to help you.

   Once identified, you want to consult with the process owner before you
   submit your waiver request.  Although consulting with the process owner
   first adds a step to the process, it typically saves time for both you
   and the process owner.  Consultation also helps improve the quality of
   implementing your waiver because it provides the process owner the
   opportunity to fully consider your idea, make a preliminary assessment
   of its impact, and identify any labor relations or other
   technical/legal issues that h/she might need to address before
   implementing your waiver.

   As part of the consultation period, both you and the process owner also
   want to work in partnership in examining the current "internal rule"
   and your requested waiver with objective and open eyes, and develop a
   mechanism for measuring the effectiveness of your waiver request. You
   want to work with the process owner to develop a strategy for assessing
   how your proposed waiver improves TASC's operational effectiveness.
   The use of performance measures may be an appropriate method to
   determine how much operational effectiveness resulted in terms of hours
   worked, dollars expended, etc.

   In addition, you want to jointly develop a strategy to determine
   whether application of your requested waiver should be expanded to
   other TASC rules, policies, procedures, systems, etc., as well as
   provide a way to determine whether the waiver should be extended,
   discontinued, or remain in effect permanently after your waiver has
   been in operation for a specified time period.

   If, after 30 calendar days, the process owner doesn't respond to your
   request for consultation, you may go ahead and submit your waiver
   request.

   Step 2: Complete and submit Waiver Request Form DOT 1001 to the process
   owner and at the same time, send a copy of the form to the Independent
   Official.

   You can obtain a copy of a Waiver Request Form DOT 1001 from TASC
   Customer Service or it can be down-loaded from the U.S. D.O.T. Waiver
   Website, which is located on the Internet at: http://waiver.dot.gov.
   If you have questions about how to complete the Waiver Request Form,
   you should contact the process owner or the Independent Official for
   assistance.  You can contact the Independent Official, Pat Parrish,
   Principal, TASC Customer Service, at (202) 366-4747, or through the
   internal electronic mail system (e-mail) at: parrish, patricia.

   You may submit your Waiver Request Form to the process owner through
   e-mail, the regular mail system, or by telefaxing it or delivering it
   by hand.

   You can submit a copy of your Waiver Request Form to the Independent
   Official (Pat Parrish, Principal, TASC Customer Service), through the
   e-mail system,  addressed to:  parrish, patricia;  through the regular
   mail system addressed to:  U.S. Department of Transportation, TASC,
   SVC-30, 400 7th Street, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20590;  by telefaxing
   at:   (202) 366-7211; or by hand-delivering it to: SVC-30, Room 10320,
   DOT Headquarters (Nassif) Building, located at the mailing address
   cited above.

   How long does it take to process a waiver request?

   A properly completed Waiver Request Form, once received by the process
   owner (or, in his or her absence, the process owner's designated
   official), must be approved or disapproved within 30 calendar-days from
   the submittal date on the Form.  In extremely rare instances, the
   Independent Official may extend the 30-day review period to satisfy any
   labor relations obligation(s), to permit completion of a review of your
   waiver request by internal or external technical and/or legal experts,
   or for other appropriate reasons.

   Does the 30-day period allowed for reviewing and  processing a waiver
   request include the time required for consultation?

   No, the 30 days allowed for making a determination and notifying you of
   the approval, disapproval, or extension of the waiver request review
   period does not include the 30-day consultation period.  However, it
   does include any time necessary for the process owner to coordinate
   with other TASC process owners when the rule, policy, procedure, etc.,
   being proposed for waiver, is jointly owned by more than one TASC
   official, or jointly owned by official(s) of TASC and those of another
   operating administration.  It also includes the time necessary for a
   required review by the Independent Official for a proposed disapproval
   of a waiver request.

   How will I be notified about whether or not my waiver request was
   approved?

   The process owner will notify you of the disposition of your waiver
   request within 30 calendar days from the submittal date on your Waiver
   Request Form by providing you with an appropriately annotated (i.e.,
   approved, disapproved, or extended) and appropriately signed Waiver
   Request Form DOT 1001 (i.e., signed by the process owner if approved;
   by the independent official if disapproved or extended)  Once approved,
   you may begin implementation of your waiver.

   You may also obtain information regarding the final disposition of your
   waiver request, as well as all other waiver requests processed under
   the TASC Waiver Request Process, on the TASC Waiver Website located
   at:    http://waiver.dot.gov.

   What if I'm not notified about the status of my waiver request within
   the required 30-day review period?

   If you have not received notification of a decision by the process
   owner in response to your waiver request within 30 calendar days from
   the submittal date on your Waiver Request Form, your waiver request
   will automatically be considered approved and  implementation of the
   waiver may begin.

   What does TASC do with my waiver requests after I submit it?

   In most instances, a request to waive a TASC internal rule will be
   approved by the process owner and the process owner will notify you of
   his or her approval as soon as possible, but no later than 30 calendar
   days from the submittal date on your Waiver Request Form.

   If a process owner determines that it is necessary to disapprove a
   waiver request, the process owner must submit his or her recommendation
   for disapproval to the independent official within 20 calendar days
   from the submittal date on the Waiver Request Form, including a
   detailed explanation of the reason for the recommended disapproval.

   The independent official will make a final decision to either approve
   or disapprove the requested waiver within the 30-day review period
   provided for the disposition of a waiver request and notify the process
   owner of the decision.  The process owner will in turn, notify you of
   the final disposition of your waiver request and if approved,  you may
   immediately begin implementation of your waiver.  If disapproved, the
   process owner will provide you with the reason(s) for disapproval of
   your waiver request.

   In rare instances, the independent official may extend the 30-day
   review period to satisfy any labor relations obligation(s) or to permit
   the completion of a review of your waiver request by internal or
   external technical and/or legal experts.

   Process owners will notify the independent official as soon as they
   have approved a waiver request, including any blanket waivers they may
   approve, by submitting a properly completed and signed Waiver Request
   Form to the Independent Official.

   The independent official will post all waivers processed under the TASC
   Process, whether approved or disapproved, on the TASC Waiver Website.
   Posting of all waiver requests on the Internet, whether approved or
   disapproved,  helps TASC share ideas with others, as well as avoid
   processing duplicate requests.

   Where can I find more information about this waiver request process?

   For additional background information about the Government-wide effort
   to streamline the granting of waivers, as well as the DOT Waiver
   Framework and some informative questions and answers about the
   Framework, please contact TASC Customer Service by telephone at (202)
   366-4747 or by visiting us in Room 10320, Nassif.  You can also obtain
   this same information by visiting the U.S. D.O.T. Waiver Website,
   located at:  http://waiver.dot.gov.
   links
   Waiver Homepage Definitions Waiver Process Exceptions How to Request a
   Waiver Waiver Request Form Questions and Answers How Waivers Are
   Processed TASC Waivers Listings More Info
