http://www.jsc.nasa.gov/aboutjsc.html

                            Johnson Space Center

        People Places Shuttle Station News Facts Benefits Freedom of
                                                          Information

                      [left.gif] About JSC [right.gif]

   NASA Johnson Space Center
   Exploring the Science of Space for the Future of Earth
   For more than three decades, NASAs Johnson Space Center has led our
   nation and the world on a continuing adventure of human exploration,
   discovery, and achievement. The Center plays a vital role in
   transcending the physical boundaries of our planet to further our
   knowledge and enhance our quality of life. The Centers team of
   dedicated professionals has made advances in science, technology,
   engineering, and medicine that enable us to explore our world and
   universe as never before, and to derive unparalleled benefits from that
   exploration.

   Johnson Space Center was established in 1961 as the Manned Spacecraft
   Center and, in 1973, renamed in honor of the late President and Texas
   native, Lyndon B. Johnson. From the early Gemini, Apollo and Skylab
   projects to todays Space Shuttle and International Space Station
   Programs, the Center continues to lead NASAs efforts in human space
   exploration.

   At Home in Space
   International Space Station and Shuttle Programs
   The Space Shuttle and Space Station Programs provide us with the means
   to explore space and pursue discoveries that will enhance life on Earth
   and further our exploration of the solar system. Johnson Space Center
   houses these two key NASA programs. These program offices direct the
   development, testing, production, and delivery of Shuttle Orbiters and
   Station components, and coordinates Station development efforts among
   NASA Centers and between the U.S. and its partner nations.

   Houston, Go for Launch
   Mission Control Center and Flight Operations
   Since 1965, Johnson Space Center's Mission Control Center has been the
   nerve center for America's human spaceflights. Since International
   Space Station assembly began in 1998, the Center has become a focal
   point for human spaceflight worldwide. The teams that work in Mission
   Control, Houston, as it is most widely known, have been vital to every
   U.S. human spaceflight since the Gemini IV mission in 1965, including
   the Apollo missions which took humans to the Moon and the more than 100
   Space Shuttle flights since 1981.

   Humans in Space
   Astronaut Training and Mission Preparation
   Home to our nation's astronaut corps, Johnson Space Center is
   responsible for preparing explorers from both the U.S. and its partner
   nations for the demands of living and working in space. The Center's
   rigorous astronaut selection and training program uses highly
   specialized facilities and equipment to prepare Shuttle and Station
   flight crews for missions.

   Preparing for the Next Steps
   Engineering, Designing, and Testing the World's Leading Technologies
   Since opening in 1964, Johnson Space Center's dedicated team of
   scientists, engineers and craftspeople have managed the design,
   development, and testing of all U.S. human spacecraft. The Center's
   expertise encompasses all human spacecraft-related functions including:
   life support systems; power systems; crew equipment; guidance,
   navigation and control; electrical power generation and distribution;
   cooling systems; structures; flight software; robotics; and spacesuits
   and spacewalking equipment.

   The Science and Medicine of Space Exploration
   Meteors, Moonrocks, Medical Research and More
   Johnson Space Center leads NASA's flight-related scientific and medical
   research efforts, and strives to find new, innovative ways for humans
   to live and thrive in the space environment. The Center also leads
   research into the composition of other planets and into the possibility
   of life beyond Earth. The Center houses and examines Apollo lunar
   samples and probable Martian meteorites, and studies information
   collected by NASA's exploratory probes.

   Down-to-Earth Benefits
   Bringing Space Technology to the World
   The transfer and commercialization of space technology is a NASA
   priority. Johnson Space Center's Office of Technology Transfer and
   Commercialization provides numerous opportunities for companies to
   access and utilize emerging technologies to improve our quality of
   life.

   The People of Johnson Space Center
   The Center's Role in the Houston Economy and Community
   Johnson Space Center's large workforce of federal and contract
   employees-as well as its economic impact- creates a positive force in
   the community it calls home. The Center and its people also work to
   enhance the quality of life in the area through community service,
   partnerships with industry, and education outreach programs.

                               Shuttle Streak

       Public Kids Educators News Media Business Employees Researchers

                                   SEARCH
                             NASA Home JSC Home


    Curator: Kim Dismukes
    Responsible NASA Official: Catherine Watson
    Updated: 17 September 2001
