http://safmc.noaa.gov/safmcweb/library/newsroom/nr-cooperative-fishery.html


   [clogo.GIF]

              South Atlantic Fishery Management Council


For Immediate Release
December 12, 2001

                                                                        CONTACT: Kim Iverson
                                                                  Public Information Officer
                                                                                843/571-4366

             Cooperative Fishery Management Initiative Discussed
                       During December Council Meeting

   Federal fishery managers met last week in North Carolina to discuss
   management issues regarding the status of a number of plans affecting
   fisheries off the south Atlantic coast. Dr. William T. Hogarth,
   Assistant Administrator for NOAA Fisheries and head of the National
   Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), met with the South Atlantic Fishery
   Management Council (Council) to address concerns expressed by the
   Council regarding management actions. Concerns include continued delays
   in the review and implementation of proposed fishery management plans
   (FMPs), changes in plan requirements and availability of current data
   from the NMFS. The Council is responsible for the development of
   management plans and federal regulations for a number of marine species
   found in Federal waters (three to two hundred miles offshore). Once
   these plans are developed, the NMFS must review and approve each plan
   or plan amendment before it can be submitted to the Secretary of
   Commerce for final approval and implementation.

   Dr. Hogarth, who is newly appointed to his position at NOAA Fisheries,
   acknowledged the problems and agreed to work closely with the Council
   to bring about needed changes in the process. "The (Council) does have
   four plans now that seem to be caught in the middle – Calico Scallop,
   Rock Shrimp, Dolphin/Wahoo and Sargassum," explained Hogarth. "It is
   our goal to work through these as quickly as possible and move
   forward." Dr. Hogarth went on to explain that litigation with the NMFS
   has resulted in additional policy requirements for the development of
   FMPs including those pertaining to the National Environmental Policy
   Act (NEPA), the Endangered Species Act, Marine Mammal Protection Act
   and others.

   During the meeting, Dr. Hogarth committed the NMFS to working with the
   Council to prepare the Sargassum FMP for final review and submission to
   the Secretary of Commerce in early spring of 2002. He also agreed to
   work cooperatively to expedite the review process and implementation of
   the Dolphin Wahoo FMP, Calico Scallop FMP and Amendment 5 to the Shrimp
   FMP dealing with a limited access program for the rock shrimp industry.

   At the recommendation of the Controlled Access Committee, the Council
   will submit Amendment 5 to the Shrimp FMP for formal review to the
   Secretary of Commerce by early 2002. The plan, developed with the
   cooperation of industry representatives, will implement a limited
   access program and other management measures for the rock shrimp
   fishery. The Council also agreed to continue to prohibit trawling by
   these vessels in the Oculina Bank, an area off the coast of Ft. Pierce,
   Florida designated as a Habitat Area of Particular Concern (HAPC) in
   order to protect the rare Oculina coral found there.

   In other actions, the Law Enforcement Committee met to discuss the
   effects of the September 11 terrorist attacks on fishery law
   enforcement. Because of the subsequent diversion of some fisheries law
   enforcement
   efforts towards homeland security, the Council is requesting that NOAA
   General Counsel assess the maximum penalty possible for violators who
   would take advantage of the present national crisis and also requested
   that the penalty schedule be increased for those who are found
   operating in closed areas.

   A joint meeting was held with the Snapper Grouper Committee, Advisory
   Panel, Scientific & Statistical Committee and Stock Assessment Review
   Panel to address issues affecting snapper/grouper management. During
   the joint meeting Dr. Louis Daniel, Council member from North Carolina,
   expressed his concerns regarding stock assessments for red porgy.
   Following a stock assessment by the NMFS in 1999, the red porgy fishery
   was closed by emergency action. The fishery later reopened with a
   one-fish/person recreational bag limit and a 50-pound incidental catch
   and seasonal spawning closure (January through April) for the
   commercial fishery. Dr. Daniel questioned the methodology and data used
   in the red porgy stock assessment. "The key question is, does the
   status of the reproductive stock in the south Atlantic merit the
   current restrictions in place?" explained Dr. Daniel. The NMFS has
   agreed to a new stock assessment and the Council plans to address this
   issue during its June 2002 meeting. The Committees also reviewed a
   number of options contained in Amendment 13 to the Snapper Grouper FMP
   and made recommendations for areas being considered for possible
   designation as Marine Protected Areas (MPAs). The Council is
   considering the use of MPAs to protect deepwater grouper and tilefish
   species as part of the Snapper Grouper FMP. Public hearings regarding
   this issue will be held in the fall of 2002 and again in 2003.

   "We sincerely appreciate Dr. Hogarth’s attendance and input at the
   December meeting and look forward to working together on this
   cooperative initiative", stated Bob Mahood, Executive Director of the
   South Atlantic Fishery Management Council. "This was an extremely busy
   meeting week following the cancellation of our September meeting due to
   the terrorist attacks. We continue to keep the families of those
   victims in our thoughts and prayers through this holiday season."

   For additional details, please contact the Council office at
   843/571-4366, by email at safmc@noaa.gov. or visit the Council's web
   site at www.safmc.net.

    The South Atlantic Fishery Management Council (SAFMC) is responsible
    for the conservation and management of fish stocks from three to 200
     miles off the coasts of North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia and
                                east Florida.
