http://lupus.gsfc.nasa.gov/core/core2000/core2000.html

                                CORE2000 Plan

                             Goddard VLBI Group

                               December, 1999

                                   Summary

   The new Mark IV correlator will be available this month. Unfortunately,
   due to delayed software development, the correlator will not have the
   capabilities to process data acquired in Mark IV recording modes until
   the first quarter of 2000. As a result, the start of the CORE plan has
   been postponed until April 2000.

   Once the software is developed, the new correlator will allow more
   efficient processing of Mark III data as well as making it possible to
   process data acquired in Mark IV recording modes. In 2000 we plan to
   have a 16% (143 vs. 166) increase in experiments and a 24% (814 vs.
   1013) increase in station days. Even more station time will be needed
   as the CORE program evolves over the years. The reason we can support
   additional CORE sessions is because of the new Mark IV correlator
   resources.

   We propose to continue the bi-weekly CORE-A and monthly CORE-B
   sessions. We plan to use similar CORE-A networks to the ones used in
   1999 to gain more data to analyze. The CORE-B networks will remain
   similar to those used in 1999 except that there will two different
   networks instead of three. We have also requested DSN time for each
   CORE-B date, and we will include a DSN station if it is available.

   The current plan is to begin the CORE-3 series bi-weekly in April and
   then the CORE-3 experiments will be scheduled weekly starting in July.
   The CORE-3 series is named for the third day of the work week since it
   will start on Wednesdays following the NEOS/CORE-A during the first
   half of the year. Later the CORE-3 experiments will follow all NEOS
   experiments. This will be the first of the regular, operational CORE
   sessions, recorded in a Mark IV mode. The Mark IV correlator will be
   operationally able to process this new recording mode during the first
   quarter of 2000 but there may be some initial inefficiencies that may
   require us to cancel some additional CORE-3 sessions until they are
   resolved. If this should occur, the participating stations will be
   notified as far in advance as possible.

   In addition to the CORE-3 network, we propose to add another new
   bi-weekly network, CORE-1. CORE-1 is named for the first day of the
   work week so it will start on Monday preceding the NEOS experiments.
   The CORE-1 is the next part of the true CORE program.

   Although requests for antenna time have already been requested, we urge
   you to send comments on the plan and any suggestions about how to
   improve it. We have performed numerous simulation runs to optimize the
   networks for each type of session. Our selection of stations for each
   network was based on station availability as well as the simulation
   results.

   The graphic display of the CORE program evolution shows how we are
   gradually filling in the days of the year with VLBI measurements of
   EOP. As the graphic shows, we anticipate discontinuing the simultaneous
   CORE-A sessions in 2001 and moving these station resources to a CORE-4
   (fourth work day of the week, Thursday) to extend the weekly span
   covered by VLBI data.

Summary of 2000 Observing Sessions

   CORE-A: 26 sessions, bi-weekly, simultaneous with even-numbered NEOS
   sessions

   CORE-B7: 4 sessions, preceding NEOS/CORE-A or following NEOS, May
   through October

   CORE-B8: 4 sessions, approx. bi-monthly, following CORE-3

   CORE-3: 7 sessions, bi-weekly, following NEOS/CORE-A, April 1 through
   June 30

   CORE-3: 26 sessions, weekly, following NEOS/CORE-A, planned to start
   July 1 through December 31

   CORE-1: 12 sessions, bi-weekly, preceding NEOS, planned to start July 1

Networks (see notes)

   CORE-A: Fairbanks, Westford, Algonquin, Matera, Medicina, Tsukuba,
   HartRAO, Hobart
   CORE-B7: Algonquin, Yellowknife, Fortaleza, Tsukuba, Crimea, DSS65, Ny
   Alesund
   CORE-B8: Noto, Ny Alesund, DSS45, NRAO20, Seshan, Urumqi, Yebes
   CORE-3: Fairbanks, Kokee, Matera, Wettzell, Ny Alesund, Onsala,Westford
   CORE-1: Fairbanks, Medicina, NRAO20, Ny Alesund, Onsala, Seshan,
   Tsukuba, Matera All of the proposed CORE networks for 2000 have been
   designed to achieve EOP precision at least as good as 100 as in pole
   position and 3.5 as in UT1. These are the same goals we used for the
   1997-9 networks.

                                    Notes

                                   CORE-A

   We have been running the CORE-A network to investigate the level of
   agreement of EOP estimates made by different networks operating
   simultaneously and to make improvements to improve the agreement. This
   is of critical importance since the CORE program will be using
   different networks on different days to measure EOP continuously. Since
   the beginning of 1997, the CORE-A sessions have been run simultaneously
   with the even numbered NEOS-A sessions every other week. The NEOS
   network has remained nominally the same during this period consisting
   of FORTLEZA, WETTZELL, NRAO20, KOKEE, and NYALES20. CORE-A used
   WESTFORD, HARTRAO, HOBART26, GILCREEK, and MATERA in 1997. In 1998,
   ALGOPARK was added. In 1999, there were essentially three different
   CORE-A networks depending on the availability of stations. The
   availability of HOBART26 was much reduced so that for sessions where it
   was not available, MEDICINA was used. When TSUKUBA was available, it
   replaced MATERA or MEDICINA.

   Comparisons of CORE-A and NEOS for sessions during 1997-1998 indicate
   that there is a significant bias of 60-80 micro-arcsecond between each
   EOP component estimates from the two networks. The EOP differences also
   exhibit quasiannual signatures with amplitudes of 100-200
   micro-arcsecond. The reduced chisquared of the differences imply that
   the formal uncertainties are too small by a factor of 1.3-1.7. Marshall
   Eubanks has compared the VLBI polar motion estimates with simultaneous
   GPS estimates. He finds that the VLBI data are worse in PM-X with an
   observed uncertainty of 196 micro-arcsecond compared to 77
   micro-arcsecond for GPS. For PM-Y, the situation is reversed with a
   VLBI uncertainty of 111 micro-arcsecond compared with 157
   micro-arcsecond for GPS.

   From network comparisons that have been made it is clear that the
   network sensitivity problem is significant, but we have not determined
   how to minimize it. Further investigation of this is necessary.
   Therefore we plan to continue the CORE-A sessions in 2000 in order to
   extend the current series of sessions and provide more comparison data.
   The planned network will be the same as that for 1998 except that
   TSUKUBA will replace WESTFORD. WESTFORD was redundant with ALGOPARK and
   TSUKUBA will provide a better connection of HOBART26 with the rest of
   the network The resulting formal uncertainties of this network 33
   micro-arcsecond, 35 micro-arcsecond, and 2.0 micro-second for PM-X,
   PM-Y, and UT1 is better than for the 1998 network (60 micro-arcsecond,
   50 micro-arcsecond, and 2 micro-second. This network will be run
   monthly since HOBART26 is only available for 12 sessions. For the other
   14 CORE-A sessions, a network similar to one run in 1999 will be
   observed and TSUKUBA will replace MEDICINA in some of those sessions.

   The CORE-A sessions are observed on Tuesdays starting at 18:00 UT,
   simultaneous with even-numbered NEOS.

                                   CORE-B

   The purpose of the CORE-B sessions is to obtain EOP data on days
   adjacent to the main NEOS/CORE-A and CORE- 3 sessions and thus extend
   the span of continuous data. The secondary purpose of CORE-B is to
   provide observing sessions during which the stations can demonstrate
   their performance and their ability to participate in future regular
   CORE sessions.

   The CORE-B is observed on Monday or Thursday starting at 16:00 UT and
   18:30 UT, respectively.

   The CORE-B networks are numbered 7 and 8 to distinguish them from the
   networks used in 1999.

                                   CORE-3

   The purpose of the CORE-3 sessions is to provide a bi-weekly 48-hour
   continuous data set from April through June (NEOS/CORE-A+ CORE-3) and
   then weekly from July through December (NEOS/CORE-A+ CORE-3 and
   NEOS+CORE-3) . The CORE-3 sessions mark the start of the regular CORE
   observing program. CORE-3 sessions will be recorded in a Mark IV mode
   which requires that the participating stations have Mark IV station
   capability. The recording mode will be the one planned for all CORE
   sessions eventually, but the total data rate will be reduced to the
   level that can be efficiently processed with the Mark IV correlator
   capabilities as they are expected to be in 2000.

   CORE-3 will be observed on Wednesday starting at 18:30 UT, following
   the NEOS/CORE-A or NEOS.

                                   CORE-1

   The purpose of the CORE-1 sessions is to provide a bi-weekly 72-hour
   continuous data set from July through December (CORE-1+NEOS+CORE-3).
   CORE-1 sessions will be recorded in a Mark IV mode which requires that
   the participating stations have Mark IV station capability. The
   recording mode will be the one planned for all CORE sessions
   eventually, but the total data rate will be reduced to the level that
   can be efficiently processed with the Mark IV correlator capabilities
   as they are expected to be in 2000.

   CORE-1 will be observed on Monday starting at 16:00 UT, preceding NEOS.
