http://dlmf.nist.gov/Help/

   #up

   [space.gif]                                  [space.gif]

   Digital Library of Mathematical Functions
             Search Index Contents

                                            Help
                                                   NIST

  Organization

    Chapters

   Each chapter represents an important special function, family of
   special functions, or general topic helpful for using or understanding
   special functions and their applications. Each chapter will be written
   under contract with a specialist in the topic. Likewise, each chapter
   will be validated under contract with a specialist. A sample chapter on
   Airy Functions has been written.

   Each chapter is broken down into major sections such as Mathematical
   Properties, Computation and Applications. Within each section are
   subsections dealing with various aspects of the topic, such as
   Notation, Differential Equation or Software. Finally, each subsection
   is broken down into subsubsections which appear as individual HTML
   pages.

    Navigation

   At the top of each page, and at the bottom of longer pages, are links
   to aid in navigating around the site or chapter. Next and Previous
   links take you to the next or previous content-containing page in the
   logical sequence (skipping over redundant tables of contents). Context
   is reinforced by displaying the sequence of parents of each sectional
   unit and provides a link to allow moving up to, for example, the
   subsection which contains the current subsubsection, as well as the
   containing section and chapter.

    Meta-Information

   Most sectional units, and all equations, have meta-information
   accessible by clicking on the `about' link, the equation number, or the
   equation itself. This meta-information provides extra detail about each
   element. For example, there are detailed references which point to the
   exact reference for an equation or how it can be derived. Each element
   will also have attributes assigned which describe its role; this
   information will be used in the indexing capabilites. The LaTeX source
   (and eventually an OpenMath representation) for each formula is also
   available.

    Index and Search

   The Index will be constructed from attributes assigned to sections and
   formulas. It will also contain glossary entries and notational entries.
   There will be a browsable Index, much like the index of a book, but
   with page numbers replaced by links taking the user directly to the
   relevent section. The Search capability will be based on the same
   information but will automatically find relevant entries based on a
   user's keywords. Neither of these capabilities have been implemented at
   this time.

  Technologies

   Inits current form, we have attempted to maximize portability and
   accessiblity, although we have made heavy use of graphics to present
   the formulas. Otherwise, we have declined to make use of Java,
   Javascript, MathML or Dynamic HTML in the mockup, although these will
   be useful technologies in the future. In any case, accessibility for
   all users will always be a primary concern. See the mockup description
   for more details.

    VRML

   We have used both VRML versions 1 and 2 in presenting dynamic
   visualizations. Although VRML2 contains more features and is slightly
   more compact, compatible VRML2 browser plugins are less common than
   VRML1 viewers. The VRML Repository is a good source of information
   about VRML viewers for various platforms.

   [space.gif]
   Last Modified Tue, Nov 13, 2001              [space.gif]
                                     DLMF_feedback@nist.gov
