http://propulsid.laed.uscourts.gov/Orders/me022001.pdf

   MINUTE ENTRY FALLON, J. February 20, 2001 UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
   EASTERN DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA : MDL NO. 1355 IN RE: PROPULSID :
   PRODUCTS LIABILITY LITIGATION : SECTION "L" :: JUDGE FALLON .. .. .. ..
   .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
   .. .. ..: JUDGE AFRICK THIS DOCUMENT RELATES TO ALL CASES: A pretrial
   status conference was held February 20, 2001 at 1:00 p.m. in the
   courtroom of Judge Eldon E. Fallon. In attendance for Plaintiffs were
   Richard J. Arsenault, Dawn Barrios, Daniel E. Becnel, Leonard Davis,
   James Dugan, Walter Dumas, Barbara Frederick, Phil Garnett, Russ M.
   Herman, Robert R. Hopper, Fred Longer, Larry Morris, Gale Pearson, and
   Chris Seeger. In attendance for Defendants were Thomas F. Campion,
   Kenneth Conow, James B. Irwin, Charles F. Preuss, and Quentin F.
   Urquhart, Jr. At the conference, counsel reported to the Court on the
   topics set forth in Joint Report No. 4 of Plaintiffs' and Defendants'
   Liaison Counsel. 1. Virtual Document Depository: The parties are
   continuing discussions with respect to the virtual document depository.
   Security issues are of significant concern, and the parties have
   continued to address this issue with the vendors. The Court urged the
   parties to continue working toward the creation of a virtual 1 document
   depository because of the advantages related to accessing documents. 2.
   Plaintiff Profile Forms/Authorizations The parties have agreed upon
   plaintiff profile forms and execution of authorizations as detailed in
   Pretrial Order No. 9. The forms and authorizations are posted in
   electronic format on the Court's MDL No.1355 website and may be
   downloaded. 3. Master Complaint/Answer The parties continue to discuss
   the issue of a master complaint/answer and will be prepared to report
   to the Court on their progress at the March pretrial status conference.
   4. Update of Rolling Document Production Plaintiffs have received an
   additional 240,000 pages of documents from Defendants. Defendants
   indicated that they plan to supplement the document production
   utilizing an objective coding index. Defendants further indicated that
   they expect to complete domestic document production by the end of
   June, 2001. 5. Electronic Service/Verilaw The parties explained that
   electronic service has been successful overall despite minor technical
   problems which the parties are working to resolve. 6. State Liaison
   Counsel State liaison counsel were in attendance and the Court invited
   their input. 7. Cross-Noticed MIS Depositions The parties explained
   that depositions of MIS representatives and corporate representatives
   of Defendants were noticed and taken without incident. 2 8. Electronic
   Document Production The parties indicated that they had resolved
   disputes concerning the electronic document production of domestic
   documents. With regard to foreign documents, the parties noted
   significant disagreements. The Court discussed the approach it
   anticipates using to resolve conflicts arising over the production of
   electronic data. Specifically, the Court explained that it will employ
   the technical assistance of experts. The Court, however, encouraged the
   parties to settle their differences without resorting to the cumbersome
   and expensive process of utilizing court-appointed experts. 9.
   Deposition Regarding Corporate Organization Depositions directed at
   discovery of the organizational structures of Defendants pursuant to
   Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 30(b)(6) shall commence on March 5,
   2001. 10. Status of Response/Objections to Document Request to
   Defendants The parties stated that they had reached an agreement on
   this issue. Defendants will use objective coding to respond to
   Plaintiffs' requests by March 9, 2001. 11. Plaintiffs' Counsel Cost and
   Time Reports At the request of Plaintiffs' Liaison counsel, the Court
   discussed the status of Plaintiffs' attorney cost and time submissions
   with a representative from the Plaintiffs' Liaison Committee and its
   appointed certified public accountant. The Court reiterated the
   necessity of maintaining timely and accurate accounting. 12. Submission
   of Confidential Documents Counsel inquired about the procedure for
   submitting to the Court documents containing confidential information.
   The Court refers counsel to Pretrial Order No. 5, paragraph 10, which 3
   describes the procedure for identifying documents containing
   confidential material. These documents should be filed with the Clerk
   of Court with the designation set forth in Pretrial Order No. 5. 13.
   Preservation of Electronic Data The Court discussed the necessity of
   preserving all documents and data germane to this litigation in order
   to avoid issues related to spoilation and action by the Court. The
   question of what materials are relevant and discoverable will be
   addressed at a later date. 14. Statistics Counsel reported that
   seventy-eight percent (78%) of plaintiffs who have filed suits related
   to Propulsid throughout the country are now before this Court. Counsel
   anticipate further filings to occur throughout the year. 15. Scheduling
   of March Pretrial Status Conference The next pretrial status conference
   will be held on Thursday, March 15, 2001 at 9:00 a.m. 4
