http://organdonor.gov/SecInitiative.htm

   Health and Human Services [organ_donor_02.jpg] The Secretary's Donation
   Initiative
   [organ_donor_04.jpg] [organ_donor_06.jpg]
   [rMenu_01.gif]
   [rMenu_02.gif]
   [rMenu_03.gif]
   [rMenu_04.gif]
   [rMenu_05.gif]
   [rMenu_06.gif]
   [rMenu_07.gif]
   [rMenu_08.gif]
   [rMenu_09.gif]
   [rMenu_10.gif]
   [rMenu_11.gif]
   [rMenu_12.gif]
   [rMenu_13.gif]
   [rMenu_14.gif]
   [rMenu_15.gif]
   [rMenu_16.gif]
   [rMenu_17.gif]
   [rMenu_18.gif]
   [rMenu_19.gif]
   [organ_donor_08.jpg]
   [spacer.gif]

   [spacer.gif]

                     The Secretary's Donation Initiative

   Delivering on a promise he made on his first day on the job, Secretary
   Thompson announced his 'Gift of Life Donation Initiative' on April 17,
   2001.

     "Fifteen Americans die each day while waiting for an organ to become
     available. More than 75,000 men, women, and children now wait for a
     transplant to replace a failing kidney, heart, liver, lung or
     pancreas. Every 16 minutes, another person joins the waiting list.

     Thousands more wait for tissue transplants, desperately need marrow
     to stay alive, and require blood transfusions. The facts are just
     astounding! Someone dies every 96 minutes because there aren't
     enough organs to go around. Sixty percent of the U.S. population is
     eligible to donate blood, however, only five percent do. And, only
     25 to 35 percent of those who need a marrow transplant will find a
     match among their family members."

                      The 5 kick-off elements include:

   1.  "Workplace Partnership for Life".  This feature of the Secretary's
   initiative involves a collaboration with companies and employee groups
   of all sizes to make information on donation available to employees.
   Employers and employee groups will be encouraged to develop their own
   campaigns.  The following are charter members of the Workplace
   Partnership:
     * Aetna
     * Allfirst Bank
     * Alticor
     * American Airlines
     * American Chiropractic Association
     * Aon Corporation
     * Ashland, Inc.
     * Bank of America
     * Bar Laboratories
     * Baxter Healthcare
     * Daimler Chrysler Corporation/United Auto Workers
     * Family Circle Magazine, a publication of Gruner and Jahr
     * Ford Motor Company
     * General Motors Corporation
     * MetLife
     * 3M
     * United States Postal Service
     * Verizon

   2. Model Donor Card.  The Secretary unveiled a new model donor card
   that includes provisions for designating whether all organs and tissues
   may be donated, as well as lines for signatures by two witnesses.
   Witnesses ideally should be family members or others who are most
   likely to be contacted in the case of an emergency to help ensure that
   the donor's wishes will be carried out. An informal survey performed
   with the help of the American Bar Association confirmed that the card
   is compatible with state law in 50 states and the District of Columbia.

   3. National Forum on Donor Registries.  To help ensure that families
   and hospitals know an individual's wishes, HHS plans to look at
   mechanisms, including donor registries, to assure that an individual's
   intent to donate is clearly communicated. The Secretary has requested
   that HHS' Office of Inspector General conduct a study of existing
   registries that have been established by 16 states. The Health
   Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) will organize a national
   forum on the potential of registries, the options available and
   guidelines for registry development.

   4. National Gift of Life Medal.  The Secretary will support efforts to
   create a national Gift of Life medal presented to families to honor
   their donors.

   5. Driver's Education Curriculum.  HHS will create a model curriculum
   for drivers' education classes, and will encourage state and local
   education systems to require this curriculum. This initiative is based
   on a similar program  implemented in Wisconsin.

   Future Elements:

   HHS will launch additional elements under the initiative, including
   review of potential federal responsibilities for monitoring the
   long-term safety and effectiveness of living donation (in which a
   kidney or part of a liver or lung are transplanted from a living donor
   to a recipient). In recent years, living donation has been the fastest
   growing source of transplanted organs, and Secretary Thompson believes
   HHS should do its part to ensure the safety and effectiveness of such
   procedures, for donor and transplant patients alike.

   HHS also plans to work with other federal agencies and state
   governments to promote donor awareness efforts, and examine other
   possible steps for ensuring that individual's wishes to donate are
   recorded and carried out.

   Ongoing Elements for Creating a Donation Friendly America:

   While medical advances now enable more than 22,000 Americans per year
   to receive organ transplants that save or enhance their lives, not
   enough organs are available to help everyone in need. As a result,
   about 5,500 people die in the U.S. each year -- about 15 every day --
   while waiting for a donated kidney, liver, heart, lung, or other organ.
   Today, more than 76,000 people are on the national organ transplant
   waiting list.

   In recent years, progress has been made in creating awareness of the
   need for organ and tissue donation. Most Americans indicate they
   support organ donation. Nonetheless, only abut 50 percent of families
   asked to donate a loved one's organs agree to do so. Moreover,
   thousands of opportunities to donate are missed each year, either
   because families do not know what their loved ones wanted, or because
   potential donors are not identified for organ procurement organizations
   and their families are never asked.

   The Department of Health and Human Services is committed to creating a
   donation friendly America.  Focusing on known barriers to donation, HHS
   will take action to achieve substantial increases in donation and
   transplantation.

   Ongoing Partnerships for a Donation Friendly America:

   The essential role of families in consenting to donation is a key
   message of the initiative. Even when a donor card, driver's license,
   will, or living will is available to indicate the donor's wishes,
   next-of-kin will be asked to provide consent before donation can occur.
   HHS has teamed up with the Coalition on Donation, whose members include
   national and local organizations, to deliver a consistent, unified
   message on the importance of family discussion. With the Advertising
   Council, the Coalition on Donation has implemented a multi-year,
   national public awareness campaign. Materials developed for partners of
   the initiative feature the Coalition's message, "DONATE LIFE."

   National advertising and public awareness campaigns help to communicate
   consistent messages about organ and tissue donation, but individuals
   and families also need to learn about the importance of donation from
   people and organizations they trust. HHS is building strong
   partnerships with health care, community, educational, religious,
   minority, professional, and other organizations to ensure that
   Americans are given the opportunity to choose donation.

   Health Care Community:  The American Medical Association and the
   American Academy of Family Physicians are partnering with HHS to
   encourage physicians to make donation materials available in their
   offices and to discuss donation with patients. Already, one state
   medical society (the Texas Medical Association) is taking on organ
   donation as one of its major issues. Physicians in Texas are encouraged
   to offer educational materials in their offices and to express support
   for organ donation to patients who ask. The American Red Cross will,
   through its nationwide community network, expand upon its current
   public awareness and education activities to increase organ and tissue
   donation. The American Nurses Association will educate its members and
   provide materials. The American Association of Health Plans will
   encourage plans to provide members with educational materials. The
   National Medical Association will help educate minority medical
   professionals, especially through HHS' MOTTEP program (see below.) The
   American Association of Neurological Surgeons and the Congress of
   Neurological Surgeons are also partners in the initiative.

   Law Associations:  The American Bar Association is partnering with HHS
   to encourage attorneys to discuss donation with their clients during
   estate planning. The ABA's Real Property, Probate, and Trust Section
   will distribute materials, stimulate continuing legal education
   programs, and encourage state and local bar associations to adopt
   resolutions similar to the ABA's 1992 resolution that urges attorneys
   to get involved in donor education efforts.

   Educational Organizations:  The Center for Study of the Freshman
   Experience and Students in Transition is teaming up with HHS to provide
   donor information to new college and university students in orientation
   packets and programs. In addition, HHS= Health Resources and Services
   Administration (HRSA) is funding a demonstration project with the
   American College Health Association, a national organization with more
   than 900 member institutions, to implement and test the effectiveness
   of college campus campaigns to increase donation. The project is
   modeled after a successful HRSA-sponsored pilot project at the
   University of Rhode Island. Finally, under a HRSA grant, TransWeb
   University has developed a new interactive electronic program to
   educate school-age children about organ donation and transplantation
   available at the Web site http://www.transweb.org/journey.

   Religious Organizations:  The Congress of National Black Churches,
   representing 65,000 congregations, is partnering with HHS in a national
   project to educate its members about organ, tissue, and bone marrow
   donation. The Union of American Hebrew Congregations, with support from
   HRSA, developed a program guide on organ donation and transplantation
   which it distributed to its 850 member congregations. In addition, the
   Presbyterian Church USA, the General Conference of the Seventh-Day
   Adventist Church, the Interfaith Conference of Metropolitan Washington,
   and other faith organizations were asked by HHS to urge congregations
   across the nation to consider donation during the annual National Donor
   Sabbath. The next National Donor Sabbath is planned for November 9-11,
   2001.

   Donor and Recipient Groups:  The National Kidney Foundation's Donor
   Family Council and HHS have teamed up to create a new Web site at
   http://www.kidney.org/donor to provide information and bereavement
   support for donor families. In addition, HRSA, the Donor Family
   Council, and other national donor, recipient, and transplant
   organizations are sponsoring the seventh annual Donor Recognition
   Ceremony in July 2001 in Washington, D.C.

   The National Minority Organ/Tissue Transplant Education Program
   (MOTTEP):  A collaborative effort between NIH's Office of Research on
   Minority Health and the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive
   and Kidney Diseases, is the first national program specifically
   designed to empower minority communities to become involved in
   education activities to increase the number of minority donors and
   transplant recipients. More minority organ donors are needed to
   increase the chances that a well-matched organ will be available to
   minorities waiting for transplants. Now in 15 sites across the country,
   MOTTEP's target audience represents the African American,
   Hispanic/Latino, Native American, Asian, Pacific Islander, and Alaskan
   Native populations. MOTTEP also includes a health promotion and disease
   prevention component, to reduce the incidence of conditions such as
   diabetes and hypertension that can lead to organ failure.

   Business Organizations:  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the
   Washington Business Group on Health, representing many large and small
   businesses and organizations, will help their members conduct employee
   organ and tissue donation education campaigns. The Home Depot will also
   conduct educational activities for employees.

   State Organizations:  HHS is working with the National Governors'
   Association, the National Conference of State Legislatures, the Council
   of State Governments and the Association of State and Territorial
   Health Officials to disseminate information about model programs and
   legislation and to encourage state activities to increase donation.

   Media:  The James Redford Institute for Transplant Awareness will reach
   out to national media organizations, especially using its films to
   build public awareness of the need for organ donation.

   In addition, with assistance from the Office of Personnel Management,
   HHS is collaborating with other federal agencies to encourage federal
   employees to become donors, to share their decision with family
   members, and to serve as a model for the nation. For example, the
   Department of Defense, which has taken a progressive approach by
   routinely asking patients in its health care system to consider
   donation, is stepping up its efforts to encourage donation by making
   materials available in its treatment facilities and by improving the
   education of its providers on effective communication with patients and
   their families. In addition, the Office of Personnel Management
   included a full-page ad on donation in the Guide to Federal Employees
   Health Benefits Plans which was distributed to all federal employees.
   HHS is providing brochures, posters, ID badge stickers and other
   materials to Federal agencies to share with their employees.

   Learning More About What Works to Improve Donation and Transplantation

   On April 17^th, HRSA announced the availability of $3 million in new
   grant funds to continue to support demonstrations of innovative
   approaches for increasing donation.

   HHS agencies including HRSA, the National Institutes of Health, and the
   Health Care Financing Administration will conduct activities to
   identify the best approaches to increasing donation and priorities for
   future research.

                                     ###

   For more information on the Federal Government's donation enhancing
   activities, visit the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Web
   site at http://www.organdonor.gov, or contact: Division of
   Transplantation, Health Resources and Services Administration 5600
   Fishers Lane Rockville, MD 20857 301-443-7577 / 301-443-1267 fax.

    HHS | HRSA | Division of Transplantation | Search | About this Site |
     Contents | Current U.S. Facts | Glossary | Accessibility | Privacy
                Policy | Disclaimer | Home | Submit Comments

                                [fglogo.gif]

   [organ_donor_10.jpg]
