http://www.metrokc.gov/mkcc/News/2002/0102/habitat_restoration.htm

   King County Navigation Bar (text navigation at bottom)
   [ISMAP:homebar.jpg]-[USEMAP:homebar.jpg]


   January 28, 2002

   County Gives Green Light to $120 Million in Habitat Restoration
   Projects
   First Phase Begins Work on Green/Duwamish Ecosystem

   The Metropolitan King County Council today approved a partnership
   between King County, cities, and the Army Corps of Engineers for
   comprehensive ecosystem restoration work in the Green/Duwamish River
   watershed. The action is a major step advancing a mix of 45 projects
   that will improve salmon and wildlife habitat along the Green and
   Duwamish waterways.

   Councilmember Dwight Pelz is Chair of the Water Resource Inventory Area
   9 Steering Committee responsible for coordinating the
   County/cities/Army Corps effort. Pelz says this partnership plants the
   seed money that will eventually result in over $120 million in
   restoration projects in the Green/Duwamish River watershed.

   “This is the most aggressive salmon restoration effort in the Pacific
   Northwest,” said Pelz. “This partnership between the County and the
   Corps allows for the single largest salmon restoration commitment in
   Washington state. King County’s financial commitment is modest in
   comparison to the federal dollars we’re able to leverage.”

   The Green/Duwamish Ecosystem Restoration Project is a joint federal and
   local government effort to evaluate, plan, and implement comprehensive
   ecosystem restoration in the Green/Duwamish River watershed.

   In 1995, Congress authorized a study to ensure that the Green/Duwamish
   ecosystem would be protected and restored. Since then, local and
   federal resources have been used to study, identify, and recommend
   actions that would restore and enhance fish and wildlife habitat in the
   Green/Duwamish River watershed. Since King County’s initial investment
   of $750,000, federal resources have contributed over $2 million. With
   the adoption of the partnership agreement, additional federal
   commitments between now and 2012 are anticipated to amount to $120
   million.

   The Green/Duwamish river watershed is an invaluable natural resource
   that is home to many fish and wildlife species, including chinook
   salmon and bull trout, recently listed as threatened under the
   Endangered Species Act.

   A list of the projects is attached.

                                    -End-

                Green/Duwamish Ecosystem Restoration Projects

   Burns Creek:

   PED Design Cost: $70,800.
   Burns Creek flows into the Green River at about River Mile (RM) 38 at
   the upstream end of Lones Levee. Burns Creek is about 2.1 miles long
   and at one time supported 5 species of anadromous salmon. The major
   issues associated with this project are the control of sediment from
   Bell Ravine and obtaining landowners’ approval to plant the buffers
   required for the full restoration of the stream. A final decision to
   move forward with PED design for this site will be based on the
   evaluation of landowner willingness and likely Sponsor construction
   costs. The proposed project calls for reducing sediment delivery from
   Bell Ravine into Burns Creek. In addition, this project calls for
   plantings along the toe of the slides in the ravine to help stabilize
   them, placing wood in the stream, fencing off live stock, control of
   invasive species, and planting riparian vegetation for the full length
   of the stream.

   Elliott Bay Nearshore:

   PED Design Cost: $34,400.
   This site design calls for placement of rock at the minus 30-foot
   contour at several locations in Elliott Bay in order to provide more
   diverse habitat. A demonstration project involving placement of small
   quantities of rock was implemented during the feasibility phase.
   Monitoring of these sites has shown a significant increase in marine
   life in and around these rock locations. The major issue will be
   coordination of this project with the resource agencies to ensure that
   the site is acceptable and materials are available before construction.

   Gale Creek:

   PED Design Cost: $51,750.
   This site calls for the replacement of an eight by 12-foot box culvert
   which is perched by two to three feet at its downstream end with a
   50-foot bridge that will allow full access of fish to one of the larger
   stream basins upstream of Howard Hanson Dam. Geotechnical
   investigations at this site will include the determination of the
   adequacy of the abutment material for the proposed bridge.

   Green River Park:

   PED Design Cost: $49,400.
   This site is located at about RM 24. The proposal calls for the
   construction of a 600-foot backwater slough into parkland owned by the
   City of Kent. The slough will provide summer rearing habitat at its
   mouth and fall and winter flood refuge throughout the entire channel
   length. One of the primary issues will be finding an appropriate
   disposal site for the excavated material.


   Horsehead Bend:

   PED Design Cost: $52,500.
   This site is located two miles upstream of the Green River Park site at
   RM 26. This proposal calls for a 1,300-foot side channel excavated
   along the alignment of an old river channel. This site would also
   provide summer habitat at its lower end and flood refuge throughout the
   entire channel. A primary issue will be finding an appropriate disposal
   site for this excavated material.

   Kanaskat North Side Channel:

   PED Design Cost: $52,200.
   This site lies in an old river meander on the north side of the river
   several miles downstream of the Tacoma Diversion Dam at about RM 58.
   The proposed plan consists of constructing permanent access between the
   river and the downstream end of the former channel for fish access
   during all periods of the year, and tying this channel into a
   supplemental water source. The channel would be used for both fish and
   wildlife habitat and as a refuge channel during high flows. The channel
   is 3,600-feet long and has excellent riparian canopy for the majority
   of its length. In addition to the typical design and analysis elements
   described in Section 3.2.2, an appropriate source of ground water or
   river water to feed this channel must be determined. Two piezometers
   will be placed at the upstream end of the proposed channel and a
   groundwater pumpdown test will be performed to determine if a
   groundwater source is recommended prior to construction.

   Lake Meridian Outlet:

   PED Design Cost: $85,000.
   This site is located in the Soos Creek Basin in the City of Kent. The
   outlet channel from Lake Meridian currently flows through a series of
   road ditches until it enters Soos Creek. The proposal calls for the
   construction of a new stream channel on public lands with a 100-foot
   riparian buffer, stream habitat amenities, and a new connection to Soos
   Creek. Some of the construction and design issues for this site include
   determining the subsurface condition of the proposed stream corridor so
   the stream does not disappear into its new channel, and a conducting a
   hydraulic design analysis to ensure the stream will provide functioning
   fish habitat in its new alignment.

   Lones Levee:

   PED Design Cost: $97,800.
   The Lones Levee site is one of several training levees on the Middle
   Green River proposed for removal to allow the river to migrate as much
   as possible within its former meander bend. The proposal calls for
   excavating the entire levee and replacing it with a small setback levee
   constructed well landward of the existing levee with a buried toe to
   create a hard point to ensure that this proposal will not damage
   adjacent farmlands and homes. This project also includes the relocation
   of the lower portion of Burns Creek into its original channel. The
   major design issues associated with this project include finding a
   disposal site for the levee material and doing a comprehensive
   hydraulic and geomorphology study.

   Mainstem Maintenance (Boeing and Fenster sites):

   PED Design Cost: $43,400.
   This proposal consists of five sites on the Green River between Auburn
   and Tukwila. The two sites that are now being proposed for construction
   in Phase 1 are Boeing and Fenster. Both of the sites consist of several
   miles of bank improvements in the urban area of the Green River. The
   project would include the construction of biostabilization alternatives
   to bank stabilization and relocating the bank landward of its present
   location where possible. It will be necessary to determine whether this
   bioengineering technique will cause an increase in river elevation when
   compared to the condition of the river without the project.

   Meridian Valley Creek:

   PED Design Cost: $63,500.
   This project is located in the City of Kent and consists of removing
   the creek from its current location in a 1000-foot long concrete flume
   and restoring it into a reconstructed natural channel connected to Soos
   Creek. Some of the issues to be considered include ensuring that the
   new stream bed and underlying geology will support perennial stream
   flow in the creek, and assessing and minimizing any wetland impacts
   associated with reconstruction of the stream mouth.

   Middle Green Large Woody Debris (LWD) Demonstration Project:

   PED Design Cost: $94,350.
   One of the major limiting factors in the Middle Green River is the lack
   of large wood within the river channel and its flood plain. Much of the
   wood that could move down the system is trapped behind Howard Hanson
   Dam. Because of logging practices, this wood is much smaller than the
   material that historically moved down the Green River. In the past,
   large wood helped to hold gravel, trap food-generating debris, cause
   deep, cool pools to be formed, and generally made the river a great
   deal more diverse. In this programmatic project, up to 40 large logjams
   throughout the Middle Green River are proposed over the ten-year life
   of the project. These jams could be of two different types. One is an
   “engineered log jam” where large key logs are placed in a jam along
   with numerous other racking and stacking pieces. The other type of jam
   places large pieces of wood instream, and lets the river provide the
   other components. Phase 1 construction will consist of several examples
   of both types of jams and evaluation of their effectiveness both
   physically and biologically in the river system. The evaluation will
   provide insight as to which approaches should be used in subsequent
   design and construction phases. Design of these jams will be conducted
   under PED. The major issues associated with this project involve the
   potential for these jams to cause major changes in the river course and
   affect neighboring property, as well as the effects these structures
   could have on boater safety. The first jams will be placed only on
   public lands and only after close coordination with landowners, local
   citizens, and boater safety groups.

   Middle Green Gravel:

   PED Design Cost: $45,400.
   Since 1954, Howard Hanson Dam has trapped gravel and limited its
   ability to move downstream into the middle Green River. Such gravel is
   critical for fish spawning in the main stem and also plays an important
   role in channel morphology. It is estimated that gravel scarcity is
   moving downstream at about 800 to 1,000-feet per year so that portions
   of the river as far downstream as the area around Flaming Geyser State
   Park are now lacking in gravel. If nothing is done, eventually this
   will degrade spawning habitat throughout the Middle Green River and
   further limit the river’s ability to flood its floodplain during large
   flow events. The gravel program proposed under the ERP, along with the
   Howard Hanson mitigation and restoration projects, will place enough
   gravel into the system to make up the deficit caused since 1954 and
   continue to furnish gravel to the system on a yearly basis. In the
   demonstration project being designed under PED and proposed for
   construction in Phase 1 of the ERP, up to 5,000 cubic yards of gravel
   per year would be placed in a location just upstream of Flaming Geyser
   State Park. The main issue associated with gravel placement is its
   effects on flood levels in the Middle and Lower Green River. Careful
   monitoring and modeling of gravel will determine effects and identify
   alternatives to alleviate them.

   Mill Creek, Goedeke Reach:

   PED Design Cost: $66,500.
   This Mill Creek site is adjacent to Highway 167 just downstream of
   Peasley Canyon. A straight and shallow stream channel and a lack of
   riparian vegetation hinder the Geodeke Reach from functioning
   effectively as rearing habitat and storm refuge. The goal at this site
   is to create natural habitat for rearing and storm refuge by
   constructing a stream system with instream wood, riparian plantings and
   a realigned, contoured channel. Prior to construction, a comprehensive
   hydrological and sediment analysis is required to ensure that the site
   will function effectively.

   Newaukum Creek:

   PED Design Cost: $205,950.
   The overall project calls for restoring up to 13 miles of Newaukum
   Creek upstream from its confluence with the Green River. This Phase 1
   proposal calls for restoring about one-third of this area. The plan
   calls for the placement of large wood in the stream and planting native
   vegetation in the riparian corridor for those areas being restored.
   Obtaining landowner permission to implement restoration projects on
   their property will be necessary. The County has been working with
   local landowners through several outreach meetings to keep them
   informed of project progress and to encourage participation.

   Olson Creek:

   PED Design Cost: $55,250.
   Olson Creek is a tributary of the Green River and is located partially
   within the City of Auburn and partially within the County. The proposal
   calls for restoring the lower 1,500-feet of the stream by placing large
   wood in the stream, planting native vegetation in the lower reaches of
   the stream, and removing any upstream fish passage barriers. The
   project may include some modification of the culvert at the lower end
   of the project site under the Green River Road to assist fish passage.

   Riverton Creek Restoration:

   PED Design Cost: $86,250.
   This site is located in the City of Tukwila immediately north and east
   of the intersection of State Route (SR) 99 and SR 599. The proposal
   includes restoring the lower section of this stream for year-round fish
   habitat and flood refuge and improving the access from

   the creek to the Duwamish River. The proposal includes riparian
   plantings, placement of large wood in the stream, and removing an
   existing flap gate where the stream enters the Duwamish River. The
   major concern on this site is the possible flooding impacts from the
   Duwamish River upstream when the flap gates are removed. Flood analysis
   will be conducted before the project is constructed.

   Site One Duwamish:

   PED Design Cost: $59,100.
   This site lies adjacent to the Duwamish River just north of South
   112^th in Tukwila. The proposal calls for the construction of an
   intertidal marsh. This project has the potential of being very
   beneficial to downstream migrating salmonids by providing refuge at the
   upstream end of the salt wedge. The construction will include
   excavating a significant amount of material from this site to reduce
   marsh elevations to intertidal levels. Riparian and marsh plantings and
   the placement of large wood will also take place. Initial tests at this
   site indicate the possible presence of hazardous materials on-site.
   Although their concentration is below current contamination guidelines,
   special clean-up procedures may be required prior to construction.
   Further testing may be necessary before making a final determination
   regarding clean up and construction.


   Sunday Creek Revegetation:

   PED Design Cost: $37,600.
   Sunday Creek is located in the Upper Green River Basin approximately
   2.5 miles upstream of the historic Lester town site. The length of the
   project is about three miles in an area where the stream lies under the
   BPA power line corridor. The practice in the past was for BPA to clear
   the power line corridors of vegetation under the power lines. In the
   case of Sunday Creek, this has created an area where the water
   temperature can increase over 5 degrees Fahrenheit in the three-mile
   site reach. The proposal calls for coordinating with BPA and the U.S.
   Forest Service in a joint effort to plant low-growing riparian species
   under the powerlines and to place large wood in the stream to help
   provide cover, food source, and shade. This may be included in the
   Volunteer Revegetation program described below.

   Upper and Lower Springbrook Creek/Garrison Creek:

   PED Design Cost: $200,400.
   As part of the overall project, adding riparian plantings, relocating
   steam segments, and placing large woody debris in these streams will
   restore many drainages connected to the historic Black River. The
   downstream segment of this system is Springbrook Creek. Most of the
   creek lies in the cities of Renton and Kent. The Garrison Creek portion
   lies completely in the city of Kent. This Phase 1 design cost would
   include Upper and Lower Springbrook Creek and Garrison Creek. A
   subsequent PED design cost would include Mill Creek. The major concern
   is to provide outstanding fish habitat without compromising the ability
   of the creek to carry floodwaters.

   Volunteer Revegetation:

   PED Design Cost: $19,200.
   This program was set up to promote habitat restoration in those areas
   not covered by the other 44 sites in the overall program. This program
   will provide up to $300,000 a year for plants, wood, and other
   materials that will be included in riparian restoration projects
   throughout the Green/Duwamish Basin. This program will support work
   done by volunteer organizations and schools, the Sponsor through its
   basin steward program, and many partnering jurisdictions and other
   stakeholder groups.


                                    -End-
        __________________________________________________________________

   Metropolitan King County Council  HOME | NEWS

   King County Home | King County News | King County Services | Comments |
   Search

   This page was last updated on 01/28/02

   Links to external sites do not constitute endorsements by King County.
   By visiting this and other King County web pages,
   you expressly agree to be bound by terms and conditions of the site.
   © 2000 Metropolitan King County Council  Disclaimer
