http://www.cns.gov/joining/index.html


   The Corporation for National Service logo banner
   Getting Involved in Service
   When faced with challenges such as illiteracy, poverty, crime, and
   environmental problems, our nation has always relied on the dedication
   and action of citizens. Today, the Corporation for National Service
   carries on that tradition by working with community organizations to
   provide opportunities for Americans of all ages to serve.
   AmeriCorps National Service logo, click here for the AmeriCorps home
   page. AmeriCorps
   AmeriCorps engages more than 50,000 Americans in intensive,
   results-driven service. After their term of service, AmeriCorps members
   receive education awards that help finance college or pay back student
   loans.
   Learn and Serve America logo, click here for the home page. Learn &
   Serve America
   With the help of Learn & Serve America, over 1 million children
   participate in service-learning activities in their schools and
   communities.
   National Senior Service Corps logo, click here for the home page.
   National Senior Service Corps
   Through the Senior Corps, nearly half a million Americans age 55 and
   older share their time and talents to help solve local problems.
   Start a Project
   Interest in starting a national service program? Click here to learn
   how national service programs like AmeriCorps, Learn & Serve and Senior
   Corps can help strengthen your community.
   Partners
   Interest in starting a national service program? Click here to learn
   how national service programs like AmeriCorps, Learn & Serve and Senior
   Corps can help strengthen your community.

   National Service News
   The latest from the national service news page

   Please send comments or questions regarding this site to the webmaster

   [vertical_cns.jpg]
   Firefighters and military personnel unfurl the American flag at
   Pentagon. Photo by Jocelyn Augustino, FEMA News Photo.
   America Responds
   Message from CEO on Terrorist Attacks
   Getting Involved
   The Corporation for National Service matches talented, motivated people
   with opportunities to serve their community and the nation. Find out
   how you can get involved!
   Other Pages
   Partners in Service
   Program Resources
   Members & Alumni
   Student Service Challenge
   Research
   Jobs, Fellows, Interns

   More Opportunities to Get Involved
   VolunteerMatch search for volunteer opportunities using your own
   criteria
   ServeNet also has a searchable database of volunteer opportunities
   IdeaList is a good resource for volunteers who would like to find
   international opportunities
