http://www.bep.treas.gov/section.cfm/15



   The BEP
   The New Currency
   Anti-Counterfeiting
   Money Facts
   Shredded & Mutilated
   For Collectors

   Search Title
     __________
   Go
   blank Site Map


   About the BEP The BEP Store Locations & Tours BEP for Kids

   Contact Us Career Opportunities Procurement FOIA Media FAQ Forum

   Facts and Trivia [Select Page_________]
       Quick Search [Select Keyword____]
   Green Box

   Privacy Statement

   Thank you for visiting the Bureau of Engraving and Printing Website and
   reviewing our privacy statement. Our privacy policy is clear: We
   collect no personally identifiable information when you visit our
   website unless you specifically and knowingly provide that information
   to us. Personally identifiable information includes your name, e-mail,
   address, phone number, or other information that identifies you
   personally.

   Information Collected and Stored Automatically:
   If you do nothing during your visit but browse through the website,
   read pages, or download information, we will gather and store certain
   information about your visit automatically. This information does not
   identify you personally. We automatically collect and store only the
   following information about your visit: the name of the domain from
   which you access the Internet; the date and time you access our site;
   the pages you visit within our site; and the Internet address of the
   site from which you linked directly to our site. We use the information
   we collect to measure the number of visitors to the different sections
   of our site, and to help us make our site more useful to visitors.
   Computer software programs create summary statistics, which are used
   for such purposes as assessing what information is of most and least
   interest, determining technical design specifications, and identifying
   system performance or problems areas. Raw data logs are used for no
   other purposes and are scheduled for regular destruction in accordance
   with National Archives and Records Administration General guidelines.

   Except for authorized law enforcement investigations, no other attempts
   are made to identify individual users or their usage habits.

   Online Transactions and Mailing Lists:
   We don't require you to provide any personal information to access our
   website or to use most of our services. If you make an online purchase,
   however, we request personal information such as your name, billing and
   shipping addresses, telephone number, e-mail address and a credit card
   number. We retain and use this information to process and verify your
   requests, transmit credit information to financial institutions for
   approval or disapproval, and provide you with our products and
   services.

   You may also add your name, address, telephone number, and e-mail to
   our mailing list, either by indicating that you want to be on the
   mailing list when you make a purchase or by submitting a separate form
   requesting inclusion on our mailing list. We retain and use mailing
   list information only to keep you informed about our products and
   services. You may contact us at any time to remove your name from the
   mailing list or to change and update your personal information.

   Our authority for requesting information when you make an online
   purchase or when you request that your name be added to our mailing
   list is section 301 of title 5, United States Code. Disclosure of the
   information we request is voluntary, but if you don't provide the
   information, you will be unable to complete your transaction or will be
   unable to join our mailing list.

   We do not rent out or sell personal information for commercial
   purposes. We also do not give, sell or transfer personal information to
   third parties, unless required by law, such as the Freedom of
   Information Act.

   Contacting Us:
   Your comments, questions, and suggestions are extremely important to
   us. You may contact us electronically by completing the online request
   form on our "Contact Us" web page. You may also contact us by using the
   telephone numbers, mailing addresses, and e-mail addresses provided on
   the web site. Before contacting us, there are a few things you should
   know.

   You are not required to provide your name or any other
   personally-identifying information in order to contact us. If you want
   us to respond to a question or other inquiry, however, you will need to
   provide sufficient information for us to contact you.

   We may forward your correspondence, including any personally
   identifiable information you choose to send, to other government
   employees or government contractors to process your request or research
   and answer your questions. We may also share this information with
   contractors for purposes of statistical analysis and may track e-mails
   for purposes of improving our response times and identifying message
   turn-around times. If you choose to transmit or receive personal
   information electronically, you should be aware that we cannot
   guarantee confidentiality across the Internet. If your communication is
   very sensitive, or includes information like your social security
   number, you may want to send it by postal mail instead of using e-mail.

   Use of Cookies:

   Some parts of our website (such as our online store) use cookies. A
   cookie is a small piece of textual information that is stored by your
   browser on your computer's hard drive.

   We use transactional cookies when you utilize our shopping cart
   function in order to retain information about items you intend to
   purchase until you have the opportunity to complete your transaction.
   Our use of cookies is intended primarily for your convenience. We do
   not use cookies to store personally identifiable information or to
   track your actions over time or across non-Bureau of Engraving and
   Printing web services. We do not retrieve any information from your
   computer that is not part of the original cookie sent by us. You may
   configure your browser to accept or decline cookies, or to alert you
   when cookies are in use so you can decide whether or not to accept
   them. You are not obligated to accept cookies from us, but if you do
   not, some of the functions on our site may not be available to you.

   Security Notification:
   When you access our site you are entering an Official United States
   Government System, which may be used only for authorized purposes. The
   Government may monitor and audit usage of this system, and all persons
   are hereby notified that use of this system constitutes consent to such
   monitoring and auditing. For Site Security purposes and to ensure that
   this service remains available to all users, we employ software
   programs to monitor network traffic to identify unauthorized attempts
   to upload or change information, or otherwise cause damage.
   Unauthorized attempts to upload information or change information on
   this service are strictly prohibited and may be punishable under the
   Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986 and the National Information
   Infrastructure Protection Act.

   [ print ][ back to top ]

    Bobby Approved First Gov © 2002 The United States Treasury Bureau of
                             Engraving and Printing
