http://www.lbl.gov/Science-Articles/Archive/LSD-kinetochores.html


   [datebox.gif] January 2, 2002 [datebox.gif]

   [pixel.gif] Berkeley Lab Research News

   [pixel.gif] NEW SECRETS OF CELL DIVISION: Familiar Proteins Play an
               Unsuspected Role
                  Paul Preuss, (510) 486-6249, paul_preuss@lbl.gov


      Lab news releases
      [pixel.gif]
      Sign up to receive our news releases via email
      [pixel.gif]
      Science Beat: most recent science news here
      [pixel.gif]
      Berkeley Lab home page
      [pixel.gif]
      Lab A to Z website index
      [pixel.gif]

   Search news articles archive

   ____________ Search news stories
   [pixel.gif]

   BERKELEY, CA   Researchers in Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory's
   Life Sciences Division have discovered that two proteins, previously
   known for helping to construct "silent" regions of chromosomes, also
   play an important but unforeseen role in building special structures
   that cells need to ensure accurate chromosome copying during cell
   division.
   "When cells divide, they must make sure that both daughter cells
   receive exactly one copy of each chromosome," says Paul Kaufman, a
   staff scientist at Berkeley Lab and assistant adjunct professor of
   biochemistry and molecular biology at the University of California at
   Berkeley. "This process is known as chromosome segregation, and if it
   goes awry, cells can lose chromosomes or acquire more than one
   chromosome copy." In humans, lack of a chromosome can cause blood
   disorders including leukemia; an extra chromosome 21 causes Down
   Syndrome.


                                                  [pixel.gif] Kinetochores
        Spindles that pull the chromosome and its copy apart attach to the
   centromere region: kinetochores fasten the centromeres to the spindles.

   As cell division begins, spindles form that will eventually pull the
   original chromosomes and their copies apart into two daughter cells.
   These spindles attach to constricted regions of chromosomes called
   centromeres: complexes of proteins called kinetochores fasten the
   centromeres to the spindles.
   To elucidate this process, Kaufman and his graduate students, Judith
   Sharp and Alexa Franco, focused their research on Saccharomyces
   cerevisiae, the familiar single-celled organism used for centuries to
   ferment beer and wine and to cause bread dough to rise. "We use yeast
   as a model system in which to investigate the fundamental building
   blocks of chromosomes," Kaufman says. "The structures we're studying
   are evolutionarily conserved and are much the same in many organisms,
   including humans."
   In particular, the researchers looked at two kinds of proteins known to
   be important for depositing proteins onto chromosomes. One, CAF-I (for
   Chromatin Assembly Factor I), puts together nucleosomes, the
   fundamental building blocks of chromosomes. Nucleosomes consist of DNA
   wrapped around groups of structural proteins called histones.
   Kaufman and his coworkers had previously demonstrated that CAF-I and
   another set of proteins, called Hir (for histone regulatory), are
   important for the formation of so-called "silenced" regions of
   chromosomes, where large stretches of DNA are enveloped in protein
   structures that repress gene expression. Silencing is vital to
   chromosome stability and accurate segregation. In higher organisms,
   loss of silencing can lead to cancer; even in yeast it can lead to
   developmental abnormalities and premature aging.
   "We knew that CAF-I could assemble nucleosomes in a test tube, but it
   wasn't until we applied genetic tools that we discovered how much more
   there was to the picture," Kaufman says. "This is the advantage of
   working with yeast. It's easy to get rid of a specific gene and find
   out what happens when the protein it codes for is missing."
   When the researchers removed the genes that code for both CAF-I and Hir
   proteins, the growth rate of the yeast slowed markedly. Moreover, yeast
   lacking these genes lost chromosomes or gained extra ones hundreds of
   times more often than ordinary wild yeast. Yeast that lacked only one
   of the two genes was not similarly affected, however.
   The delay in cell division that occurred when both genes were missing
   seemed due to the activation of something called the "spindle assembly
   checkpoint," a mechanism that monitors the proper attachment of
   chromosomes to spindles before separation begins. This clue pointed to
   the involvement of kinetochores.
   Kaufman and his colleagues performed a series of tests indicating that
   both CAF-I and Hir proteins are highly localized on centromeres and
   therefore act directly to affect structures at these locations. Their
   functions seem to overlap; thus they can partially substitute for each
   other if one is missing. But when both are missing, defects in
   centromere structures occur.
   "This the first demonstration that proteins that control histone
   deposition contribute to the formation of functional kinetochores,"
   Kaufman says. "Kinetochores are essential to proper chromosome
   segregation during the cell division process."
   "Chromatin Assembly Factor I and Hir proteins contribute to building
   functional kinetochores in S. cerevisiae," by Judith A. Sharp, Alexa A.
   Franco, Mary Ann Osley, and Paul D. Kaufman, appears in the 1 January
   2002 edition of Genes & Development, and is accessible online at
   http://www.genesdev.org/.
   The Berkeley Lab is a U.S. Department of Energy national laboratory
   located in Berkeley, California. It conducts unclassified scientific
   research and is managed by the University of California.
