http://www.nasajobs.nasa.gov/benefits/quick_look_at_NASA_cs_benefits.htm


   NASA Jobs.nasa.gov
   "" Index "" Questions "" Forms "" Feedback [nj_sub_header_flat_10.gif]
   [nj_sub_header_flat_11.gif] [nj_sub_header_flat_12.gif]
   [nj_sub_header_flat_13.gif] [nj_sub_header_flat_14.gif]

                  A Quick Look at NASA Employee Benefits...
   As a NASA civil servant, you will have access to a variety of valuable
   employee benefits.
   Scroll through this page for a quick summary of our most popular
   benefits.




                           Your Pay Or Benefit...

                     As a NASA Civil Service Employee...
   Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU) Challenging,  Interesting  Work
   Planned a mission to Mars lately?  Ever replaced a gyro on an orbiting
   telescope traveling at 17,600 mph in a full vacuum?  As a NASA civil
   servant, you will participate in or provide critical support to
   activities just like these.  Each day you will be helping to make our
   Nation's history...and create our future.  Your work is to invent, to
   create, to explore, to explain.  Often, it's not very easy...but it's
   very satisfying and personally--very rewarding.  Each day, you have the
   opportunity to perform meaningful, challenging work in state-of the-art
   facilities.  Your work is important not only to our Nation's space
   program....but also to the future of humankind. Working for NASA, you
   can really make a difference that is literally and figuratively...out
   of this world.  Click here to see what our employees say.
   Money & Security    Financial & Job Security You receive a very
   competitive salary with a comprehensive retirement and benefits
   package.  As a Federal employee, you have numerous employment
   safeguards that insure that promotions and advancement are based on
   performance, achievement, and productivity.  Even though NASA has been
   downsizing for the past couple of years, we've been able to meet our
   targets without any involuntary separations.  What this means to you is
   that if you join NASA and continue to perform satisfactorily, you most
   likely will have the opportunity to remain with us throughout your
   entire career.  As shown by our very, very low turnover rates, NASA is
   a proven "employer of choice."
   Family   Family Friendly Workplace To meet the needs of our evolving
   workforce, NASA has instituted a variety of programs and policies
   designed to insure that you can continue to meet the needs and demands
   of family and personal life while continuing to successfully perform
   your NASA duties.  NASA Family Friendly initiatives include: flexible
   work and leave schedules; leave sharing, flexi-place programs; safety,
   wellness, and recreation programs; Employee Assistance Programs;
   educational outreach; career and benefits counseling, and relocation
   assistance.  Many NASA installations also offer onsite or nearby
   childcare facilities.  Click here for more information.
   NASA Center's Campus Great Work Environment! NASA provides state-of
   the-art facilities that provide a safe, secure, and well maintained
   work environment.  You work along-side well-trained, experienced
   professionals who share not only your sense of dedication to our
   mission but also a passion for our work.  Click here for information
   about our installations.
   School & Education Life-Long Learning NASA is all about learning and
   education.   As a NASA employee, our expectation is that you will
   continue to learn and develop throughout your career.  Life-long
   learning is not only important...it is absolutely necessary for our
   continuing success.  As we stretch the limits of human knowledge and
   the boundaries of our known universe--you, as a NASA employee, will be
   expected to develop and expand your knowledge, skills, and abilities.
   To help you, NASA has a number of tools, programs, and experiences that
   will not only develop--but also challenge you.  Subsidized continuing
   education, extensive onsite training, continuing exposure to the latest
   technology, and a constant influx of new and challenging projects will
   help you continue to learn throughout your NASA career.  Click here for
   more information.
   Dollar Sign/Money Competitive Salary Your salary is based upon
   established government-wide standards and adjusted for longevity, cost
   of living, and locality costs.   Click here for more information.
   US map with Capital Image

                                 Locality Pay

   In addition to you salary, you will receive an additional percentage of
   your pay that is intended to insure that your civil service pay is
   competitive with that offered in the private sector.  This pay is based
   upon average local wage costs in the geographic areas in which our NASA
   facilities are located.  Click here for more information.
   Lifting Money Up Pay Increases For Experience & Longevity

   In addition to a competitive salary and locality pay, you receive
   "within grade" pay increases based upon time in your pay grade and
   satisfactory job performance.  These ten "steps" occur at 1, 2, and 3
   year intervals.
   Handing More Money

                        Cost Of Living Pay Increases
   Usually each year, Congress approves a small percentage salary increase
   for most employees.  This increase is generally intended to insure that
   Federal salaries keep pace with inflation.
   Trophy & Ribbon

                          Incentive Awards Program

   NASA has an active incentive awards program that rewards and recognizes
   outstanding achievement, innovation, and performance.  Awards are both
   monetary and non-monetary (time-off, medals, and certificates).
   Medical Symbol

                       Choice Of Health Benefits Plans

   You have a choice from a variety of Health Maintenance Organizations
   (HMO) or fee-for-service health plans.   If you are enrolled, NASA pays
   approximately 75% of your biweekly health benefit premium.  There is an
   annual open season for switching plans.  Pre-existing conditions are
   covered.  Coverage may be carried into retirement.  Click here for more
   information.
   Doctor with Patient

                                Health Clinic

   Most installations have onsite health clinics that provide preventive
   care, limited immunizations, and health screening at no charge.
   Safety & Wellness Symbol

                         Safety & Wellness Programs

   NASA considers your safety and wellness to be of paramount importance
   to the accomplishment of our agency missions.  As a NASA employee, not
   only will you be a key player in our safety and wellness programs, you
   will also be a major beneficiary in that our processes, products,
   facilities, and workforce are all focused on insuring that you are
   safe, secure, and well cared for.
   Sick in Bed

                                 Sick Leave

   You earn 4 hours of sick leave for each two week pay period.  You may
   accrue sick leave indefinitely throughout your career.  You may also be
   advanced up to 240 hours of sick leave in cases of serious illness.
   You may use up to 104 hours of your sick leave each year to care for
   sick family members.
   Person on Crutches

                      Short Term Disability Protection

   You receive 100% of pay and benefits during the period covered by your
   accrued and advanced sick leave and accrued and advanced annual leave
   and credit hours.  Through our Leave Donor Program, you may also
   receive donated leave hours from your co-workers for use during periods
   of extended illness.
   Person in Hospital Long Term Disability Protection If you become
   disabled and have at least 18months of service you may be entitled to
   long term disability benefits.  NASA will also make extensive efforts
   to accommodate any handicapping condition and allow you to remain as a
   productive member of our workforce.

                                 FEGLI Seal

                            FEGLI Life Insurance

   NASA employees may enroll in the government-wide Federal Employees
   Group Life Insurance (FEGLI) Program.  FEGLI provides a variety of
   coverage and benefit amounts.  NASA pays 1/3 of the cost of your basic
   premium.  Click here for more information.
   NEBA Seal

                        NEBA Life & Travel Insurance

   NASA employees may also enroll in the NASA Employees Benefit
   Association (NEBA) Life & Travel Insurance Program.  NEBA is an
   employee operated not-for-profit association that offers a variety of
   coverage including free child coverage--at very competitive rates.
   Click here for more information.
   Individuals Talking

                      Employee Assistance Program (EAP)

   Each NASA facility has an active Employee Assistance Program that
   offers confidential evaluation, counseling, education, and referral
   services to NASA employees and their families.  These services are free
   of charge.
   Person in Hammock

                                Annual Leave

   You earn 13 days paid annual leave during your first 3 years of Federal
   service; 20 days of annual leave per year up to your 15th year of
   service; and 26 days of annual leave per year after your 15th year of
   service.  You may also carry over up to 30 days of unused annual leave
   each year.
   Holiday Tree

                                  Holidays

   As a Federal employee, you will receive 10 paid Federal holidays per
   year.  Click here for more information.
   National Guard Symbol Military Leave NASA is supportive of your
   participation in the U.S. military as a reservist or member of the
   National Guard.  You may receive 15 or more days paid military leave
   each year for periods of active military duty.
   Legal Symbol

                             Leave For Jury Duty

   If called to jury duty, you will be given additional paid leave without
   having to use your own annual leave.
   Time Clock

                           Flexible Work Schedules

   NASA employees have a variety of different work schedules that are
   available to them depending upon their duties, location, and personal
   needs. Schedules include flextime, variable day (VDS), regular, and
   irregular work tours.
   Remote PC Telecommuting Most NASA installations offer programs that
   support telecommuting to accommodate medical, family, commuter needs,
   or clean air programs.
   Tennis Players Retirement Plan As a NASA civil servant, you will be
   enrolled in the Federal Employees Retirement System (FERS).  You will
   be eligible to receive retirement income from three sources: a basic
   retirement plan, your Thrift Savings Plan, and Social Security.
   Person Fishing

                           Retirement Eligibility

   Depending on your year of birth, you will be eligible to retire at age
   55-57 with 30 years service (or 10 years service with a reduced
   annuity); or age 60 with 20 years service; or age 62 with 5 years
   service.  Under some circumstances, you may also be eligible for early
   retirement at any age with 25 years service or after age 50 and 20
   years service.
   Piggy Bank

                             Thrift Savings Plan

   As a NASA employee you will be eligible to contribute to the Thrift
   Savings Plan (TSP).  This plan is similar to a 401K plan in the private
   sector.  You may contribute up to 10% of your pre-tax salary up to $10K
   each year.  The government will automatically contribute 1% of your
   salary with additional matching up to a total of 5% match of your
   salary.  Click here for some more information.
   Social Security Seal

                          Social Security Coverage

   If you've earned at least 40 Social Security credits, you will be
   entitled to social security benefits--normally at age 62.
   Couple

                              Medicare Coverage

   As a Federal employee, you will be eligible for Medicare at age 65.
   Uniformed Service Person

            Credit For Active Duty in the U.S. Uniformed Services

   In most circumstances, you may receive civil service credit for your
   active duty in the U.S. uniformed services.   Credit may be used for
   determination of your leave accrual rate and your retirement
   eligibility.
   Text Books

                             Tuition Assistance

   NASA will prepay your tuition for college coursework related to you
   job.
   Car with Lots of Luggage

                            Relocation Assistance

   For most jobs, NASA offers relocation assistance for your move to your
   new NASA duty station.  First duty station benefits include movement of
   your household goods and travel reimbursement.
   House in Neighborhood

                           Reasonable Living Costs

   Most NASA facilities are located in areas  that are rated below the
   national average for costs of living....but are rated high for quality
   of life.
   Help Wanted Sign Competitive Internal Job Placement When filling most
   positions, NASA considers current employees first.  If the position
   involves a possible promotion, we will announce the job opportunity.
   If you meet the basic qualifications, you will be allowed to apply for
   the job vacancy and compete for the job with other internal
   applicants.
   Person on Phone & Driving

                               Job Portability

   If you are on a career appointment, your service credit, pay grade,
   sick leave, annual leave, and retirement are transferable to other
   Federal government agencies.  If you leave government service, you will
   also carry over Social Security credits and be able to rollover Thrift
   Savings Plan (TSP) investments into a private sector plan.  Even if you
   leave before normal retirement, you may be eligible for a deferred
   annuity.
   Lunch

                              Cafeterias Onsite

   Most NASA facilities have food service facilities conveniently located
   within walking distance of your office or work area.  Food service is
   offered at very competitive prices.
   Airplane

                            Travel Agency Onsite

   Most NASA facilities have an onsite travel agency that, in addition to
   arranging government travel, also provides personal travel assistance.
   Bank

                            Federal Credit Union

   As a NASA civil servant, you will be eligible for membership in various
   Federal Credit unions.  Branches are conveniently located near most
   NASA installations or accessible on-line.
   Person Running People Playing Basketball

                        Recreation & Fitness Programs

   Most NASA installations have recreation and fitness facilities or
   arrangements with nearby providers.  Many installations sponsor
   athletic leagues, recreational and wellness classes, and special events
   that are also open to family members.
   Scholarship Program for Dependents

                     Scholarship Programs For Dependents

   NASA has both agency-wide and local installation scholarship programs
   that are open to NASA dependents.  Competitive selections are made
   annually.
   Employee Parking Sign

              Free Or Subsidized  Parking; Commuting Assistance

   If you have to pay $100-$150 per month in parking or commuting costs
   like many workers in larger cities---you'll understand why this is one
   of our hidden benefits.  Most NASA installations have ample, nearby
   onsite parking that is free or subsidized.  Where needed, some NASA
   installations have programs to help reduce commuting time or public
   transit costs.
   NASA Insignia Your NASA Job It's worth repeating--your NASA job is the
   greatest benefit of all.  When you put the whole package together---our
   work, the pay, the benefits, being part of the NASA family---we truly
   have some of the best jobs on earth...or above it!

                                                    Last Updated: 01/04/02

           Mission Success Starts With Safety

                      Responsible NASA Official:
                              Candy Irwin

                                                                              WebMaster:
                                                                             Valerie King

            Web Accessibility & Policy Notices
