http://snfactory.lbl.gov/followup_pipeline.html

                        SNfactory follow-up pipeline

     * The output of the search pipeline at LBL will be a list of
       candidates with various scores indicating any potential problems.
     * Candidates (perhaps 10) will be inspected and rated by a human
       supervisor. This will occur at LBL, but all collaboration sites
       should develop experience in this area.
     * Based on the final ratings, an observing scheme for follow-up
       telescopes will be composed and sent from LBL. The details of the
       observing scheme will depend strongly on the scheduling constraints
       at the telescopes and the amount of control we have at that
       telescope. Where we have the most control, the observing scheme
       will be composed of self-contained scripts that obtain all the
       observations and calibration for each target. For telescopes with
       less control (e.g. YALO) a request for observations will be issued.
     * At the follow-up telescopes a night assistant will execute the
       observing script or observing request.
     * The script will send the resulting data to the collaboration sites.
       Since the amount of follow-up data taken each night should be small
       (of order 500 MB), several sites should receive the raw data
       (perhaps from each other rather than the observatory) and maintain
       database and analysis tools.
     * There will be a master database which keeps track of what
       observations have been taken. This will be consulted by the
       observing scheme script running at LBL to plan subsequent
       observations.
     * All follow-up will be reduced automatically (provided the observing
       scheme was executed successfully and completely). Partial
       observations (hopefully rare) may need to be treated with some
       interaction. (The requirements here are very extensive, and will
       need to be given in more detail elsewhere.)
     * Once reduced, the results can proceed to the analysis stage. For
       newly discovered SNe, the first analysis stage will be to classify
       the SN and to rank it relative to other SNe being monitored. There
       may be cases when the observing queue is too full to accept new
       SNe, or in which follow-up for a SN has faltered and that SN is
       therefore abandoned in favor of a more interesting candiate.
     * The initial results of the analysis will be sent to the master
       database, and used to update the observing plan for the next night.
       For screening observations, the SN redshift, type and lightcurve
       phase must be determined. In addition information on intrinsic
       luminosity, metallicity, host galaxy properties is desirable so
       that SN parameter-space is well explored by the experiment.
     * Initial results also will be used to determine preliminary
       lightcurves and spectral series. These will be monitored
       automatically and by humans to make sure observations are on track
       (again, with feedback to the observing scheme planner) and to issue
       alerts of unusual behavior.
     * Since each site will have follow-up data, further analysis and
       research can proceed according to the collaboration plan then in
       place, with each science group undertaking whatever additional work
       is required for publication.
