http://www.swpa.gov/privacy.htm

   Southwestern Power

Privacy and Security Notice

Southwestern Power Administration


                                                                      HOME
                                                                  About Us
                                                              Acquisitions
                                                                   Careers
                                                            Competing Uses
                                                                Contact Us
                                                                Generation
                                                           Interconnecting
                                                                     Links
                                                              Organization
                                                              Publications
                                                                 Questions
                                                                     Rates
                                                               System Maps

   Notice To Users

   This web site is part of a Federal computer system used to accomplish
   Federal functions.  The Department of Energy monitors this web site for
   security purposes to ensure it remains available to all users and to
   protect information in the system.  By accessing this web site, you are
   expressly consenting to these monitoring activities.

   Unauthorized attempts to defeat or circumvent security features, to use
   the system for other than intended purposes, to deny service to
   authorized users, to access, obtain, alter, damage, or destroy
   information, or otherwise to interfere with the system or its operation
   are prohibited. Evidence of such acts may be disclosed to law
   enforcement authorities and result in criminal prosecution under the
   Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986 (Pub. L. 99-474) and the National
   Information Infrastructure Protection Act of 1996 (Pub. L. 104-294),
   (18 U.S.C. 1030), or other applicable criminal laws.

Privacy and Security Policy

   This Internet website is provided as a public service by Southwestern
   Power Administration. To protect user privacy, we do the following:

   For statistical purposes only, Southwestern collects the following
   data:

     * IP Addresses from users who visit our website.
     * Dates of average website activity.
     * Most viewed web pages on Southwestern’s site.

   We use these statistics only for improvement purposes for
   Southwestern’s website, not to identify any individual users.

   We do NOT enable “cookies” on Southwestern’s website.

   Personal information submitted by a user via phone, fax, or e-mail is
   not distributed to any parties outside of Southwestern.

   We do provide links to other Government websites, to assist the user in
   obtaining official Government information. However, once the user has
   left Southwestern’s website, the user is then subject to the privacy
   and security policy of that site.

           Text-Only Version - View Disclaimer - E-mail Webmaster
