http://www.greenbiz.abag.ca.gov/AboutUs.html

                         [USEMAP:bannerAboutUs.gif]

   Regional Program
   The Bay Area Green Business Program is a successful voluntary
   partnership of government agencies, professional associations,
   utilities, businesses and a concerned public.  We work together to
   assist, recognize, and patronize businesses that operate in an
   environmentally responsible way.  The Program helps businesses comply
   with environmental regulations, and then go beyond compliance to
   conserve energy, water and other resources, and reduce pollution and
   waste.

   The Association of Bay Area Governments coordinates the Green Business
   Program, guiding the development and consistent application of
   standards.  Implementation occurs in participating counties, where
   county coordinators bring together the people and resources needed to
   help businesses achieve certification.

   The Bay Area Green Business Program currently operates in Alameda,
   Contra Costa, Napa, Santa Clara and Sonoma Counties.  Participating
   counties may target specific industries, or offer the program to all
   businesses, as indicated below. Government agency fleet maintenance and
   printing operations are also eligible, and a number have been
   certified.


                County Participating Jurisdictions Industries
              Alameda Countywide Auto Repair, Printers, Hotels
                Contra Costa Countywide Auto Repair, Printers
                         Napa Countywide Auto Repair
        Santa Clara Gilroy, Morgan Hill, Palo Alto, and San Jose and
        unincorporated areas of the County All Interested Businesses
              Sonoma Countywide Auto Repair, Printers, Wineries

   If your business or agency is located in a participating county, and
   you are interested in becoming green," contact your county coordinator
   for information about the Green Business Program. Even businesses or
   agencies that are not in targeted sectors can participate, using
   general program standards.

   Use the links above for information about each countys program. For
   more information on the Bay Area Green Business Program, contact Ceil
   Scandone at (510) 464-7961, or e-mail the Green Business Program.


   [tinygb.gif] Home | About Us | Green Business Listings | Becoming Green
                | For Government | Green Resources | Contact Us

                 Home Page {Search} {Planning} {Contact Us}

                                 pd 05/24/01
