http://www.attorneygeneral.gov/ppd/antitrust/UPMC_Settlement_Agreement.pdf

   IN THE COURT OF COMMON PLEAS OF ALLEGHENY COUNTY, PENNSYLVANIA ORPHANS'
   COURT DIVISION IN RE: CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL OF ) PITTSBURGH AND
   CHILDREN'S ) HOSPITAL OF PITTSBURGH ) NO. 6425 of 2001 FOUNDATION )
   FINAL ORDER INTRODUCTION UPMC Health System ("UPMCHS") and Children's
   Hospital of Pittsburgh ("Children's") agreed on May 16, 2001, to merge
   Children's into the UPMCHS and have since entered into a definitive
   agreement on September 5, 2001. The Office of Attorney General of the
   Commonwealth ("Attorney General") is responsible for reviewing
   transactions effecting a fundamental corporate change which involve a
   transfer of ownership or control of charitable assets. UPMCHS and
   Children's have cooperated fully with the Attorney General's
   investigation of the proposed consolidation. The Attorney General has
   concluded its investigation of the proposed consolidation of UPMCHS and
   Children's, during which some concerns were raised regarding access to
   the charitable assets and services of Children's and the impact of this
   transaction on competition for healthcare services and the economy of
   Western Pennsylvania. UPMCHS and Children's do not believe that the
   consolidation impairs access or will adversely impact competition and
   the economy of Western Pennsylvania and desire to assure the Attorney
   General that they intend to operate Children's in accordance with their
   mission and continue their commitment of providing quality, affordable,
   and accessible health care to the community. It is hereby ORDERED: -1-
   I. Interpretative Principles 1. UPMCHS and Children's Hospital of
   Pittsburgh have represented to this Court, the Attorney General and the
   public at large that the primary purposes of this transaction are to
   allow Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh to upgrade its facility,
   enhance its research and clinical programs and to continue to allow
   access to the facility for all children in need of medically necessary
   health services at reasonable prices regardless of which health plan is
   insuring them or whether or not a child is insured at all. 2. To that
   end, whenever a conflict arises over the meaning of this Final Order,
   it shall be interpreted to mean that Children's will continue to be
   accessible, as historically it has been accessible, to all children of
   the Service Area for needed medically necessary health services which
   Children's provides regardless of ability to pay or participation in a
   health plan. II. Jurisdiction 3. This Court has jurisdiction over the
   subject matter of this action and each of the parties consenting to
   this Final Order. III. Definitions As used in this Final Order: 4.
   "UPMC Health System" ("UPMCHS") means the nonprofit tax-exempt
   corporation organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of
   Pennsylvania having its principal address at 200 Lothrop Street,
   Pittsburgh, PA 15213. 5. "Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh"
   ("Children's") means the nonprofit tax- exempt corporation organized
   under the laws of the Commonwealth of -2- Pennsylvania having its
   principal address at 3705 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. 6.
   "Managed-Care Plan" means a health maintenance organization, preferred
   provider organization, or other health-service purchasing program which
   uses financial or other incentives to prevent unnecessary services and
   includes some form of utilization review. 7. "Health Plan" means all
   types of organized health-service purchasing programs, including but
   not limited to, health insurance or managed-care plans, offered by
   government, for-profit or non-profit third-party payors, health care
   providers or any other entity. 8. "Health-Care Provider" means
   hospitals, laboratories, physicians, physician networks, and other
   health care professionals. 9. "Acquire" means to purchase the whole or
   the majority of the assets, stock, equity, capital or other interest of
   a corporation or other business entity, or to receive the right or
   ability to designate or otherwise control the majority of directors or
   trustees of a corporation or other business entity. 10. "Hospital"
   means a health care facility, licensed as a hospital, having a duly
   organized governing body with overall administrative and professional
   responsibility, and an organized professional staff that provides
   24-hour inpatient care, that may also provide outpatient services, and
   that has, as a primary function, the provision of inpatient services
   for medical diagnosis, treatment and care of physically injured or sick
   persons with short-term or episodic health problems or infirmities. -3-
   11. For purposes of this Final Order, "Service Area of Children's"
   means the Pennsylvania counties of: Allegheny, Armstrong, Beaver,
   Bedford, Blair, Butler, Cambria, Clarion, Clearfield, Crawford, Erie,
   Fayette, Forest, Greene, Indiana, Jefferson, Lawrence, Mercer,
   Somerset, Venango, Warren, Washington, and Westmoreland. 12. "Most
   Favored Nations Clause" shall mean any term in a provider contract that
   allows the buyer to receive the benefit of a better payment rate, term
   or condition than that the seller gives another provider for the same
   service. 13. "Medically Necessary Health Services" shall mean existing
   medical or surgical diagnostic treatment or care generally accepted for
   the treatment, diagnosis, maintenance or improvement of the health
   needs of the child. IV. Terms 14. Access to Children's Hospital 14.1.
   Children's and the University of Pittsburgh Physicians ("UPP") who
   practice full-time at Children's ("the pediatric specialists of UPP"
   hereafter) shall remain accessible to all children in the Service Area
   of Children's. Children's will provide care to all children and
   families who seek treatment for medically necessary health care,
   consistent with its historical practices. 14.2. A child's ability to
   pay, health plan, or insurance carrier shall not be relevant to the
   determination of whether medically necessary services will be provided
   by Children's or the pediatric specialists of UPP to children who live
   in the Service Area of Children's. -4- 14.3. All children who reside in
   the Service Area of Children's may have access to and receive medically
   necessary hospital services from Children's and physician services from
   the pediatric specialists of UPP. Such children who reside in the
   Service Area of Children's and are covered by a third party payor or
   health plan shall pay no more than the co-payments, deductibles, or
   other out-of-pocket costs associated with such care than they would
   have paid had Children's and the pediatric specialists of UPP at
   Children's participated in the third party payments program or health
   plan of which such children are members, except if the conditions of
   paragraph 14.8 relating to Section 11.3 of the Integration and
   Affiliation Agreement have occurred. This paragraph shall not apply to
   payments to be made to physicians who are not employed by UPP or
   Children's, but who have staff privileges at Children's and provide
   care there. 14.4. UPMCHS and all insurers, networks and other payors
   seeking a contract, shall negotiate in good faith concerning contracts
   for services at Children's and by the pediatric specialists of UPP.
   14.5. UPMCHS shall not unreasonably terminate any provider contracts to
   which Children's or the pediatric specialists of UPP are parties as of
   the date of entry of this Final Order. However, such contracts may
   expire at the end of their term and not be considered unreasonably
   terminated by UPMCHS. Any renewals would be subject to Paragraphs 14.6
   through 14.19. -5- 14.6. Any health plan or third party payor may at
   its option agree to participate in the three-step contract resolution
   provisions of this Judgment contained in paragraphs 14.6 to 14.19. A.
   First step - period of good faith negotiations. If no contract is
   reached during that period; B. Second step - the process described in
   Section 11.3 of the Integration and Affiliation Agreement by and among
   Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh, Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh
   Foundation and UPMC Health System, dated September 5, 2001
   ("Integration and Affiliation Agreement"), shall occur. If a decision
   adverse to a health plan is made after the process in Section 11.3 of
   the Integration and Affiliation Agreement; C. Third Step - the health
   plan may request binding arbitration as outlined in paragraphs 14.9 to
   14.15. 14.7. A health plan may give notice of its agreement to utilize
   the contract resolution provisions of this Judgment at least 90 days
   prior to the expiration of an existing contract with Children's or the
   pediatric specialists of UPP. If a health plan does not have an
   existing contract with Children's, it may give such notice at any time
   after it has notified Children's, UPMCHS or the pediatric specialists
   of UPP in writing of its interest in a contract with Children's
   hospital and/or physician services. Once a health plan makes payment
   required by paragraphs 14.16 or 14.17 of this Final Order, it may
   represent that Children's -6- and/or the pediatric specialists of UPP
   participate in the health plan products for which it is seeking a
   contract. 14.8. A health plan, Children's, UPMCHS, and/or the pediatric
   specialists of UPP shall negotiate in good faith toward a contract for
   Children's services and the services of the pediatric specialists of
   UPP for at least 90 days. In the event that an existing contract has
   expired and a contract is not reached for the services of Children's
   and/or the pediatric specialists of UPP, or 90 days has passed, in the
   case of a health plan without an existing contract, the process set
   forth in Section 11.3 of the Integration and Affiliation Agreement
   shall be followed. The health plans will be given a reasonable
   opportunity to address the UPMCHS Executive Committee and the
   Foundation Affiliation Oversight Committee prior to their taking any
   final vote as outlined in Section 11.3 of the Integration and
   Affiliation Agreement. UPMCHS and Children's shall provide the health
   plan with a copy of Section 11.3 of the Integration and Affiliation
   Agreement and the names of the members of the UPMCHS Executive
   Committee and the Foundation Affiliation Oversight Committee. Once this
   process under Section 11.3 of the Integration and Affiliation Agreement
   is invoked, it shall be concluded and the decision of the Committees
   communicated to the health plan within 90 days. 14.9. At the conclusion
   of the process described in Section 11.3 of the Integration and
   Affiliation Agreement, a dissatisfied health plan may trigger
   arbitration, as set forth below, before an independent body. To -7-
   trigger arbitration, a health plan must make a written request of
   Children's, UPMCHS or UPP, whichever is applicable. A. The arbitration
   panel will be an independent body made up of seven representatives. The
   Children's Foundation shall appoint three members; the Mayor of the
   City of Pittsburgh shall appoint one member; the Allegheny County Chief
   Executive shall appoint one member; and the Pittsburgh Regional
   Healthcare Initiative shall appoint two members. B. The health plans
   and UPMCHS, the pediatric specialists of UPP or Children's, whichever
   is applicable, shall each submit to the independent body their last
   contract offer and a statement of contract issues outlining those which
   have been agreed to and those which remain in dispute. C. The
   independent body may reject a request for arbitration if the disputed
   contract issues and terms exceed the agreed upon contract issues and
   terms and order the parties to engage in another 60 days of
   negotiation. D. The independent body may retain such experts or
   consultants, none of whom may have any connection or affiliation with
   the health plan, Children's, UPMCHS or the pediatric specialists of
   UPP, to aid it in its deliberations. The cost of such experts or
   consultants shall be divided equally between the health plan on the one
   hand, and Children's, UPMCHS or the pediatric physicians of UPP on the
   other hand. -8- 14.10. If during the course of the negotiation process
   outlined above, UPMCHS, Children's, the pediatric specialists of UPP,
   or the health plan has failed to propose a contract prior to
   arbitration, the arbitration panel shall impose the proposed terms of
   the party which did make a proposal. If both sides submit proposed
   contracts, the independent body shall inform UPMCHS, Children's, the
   pediatric physicians and the health plan of information the independent
   body believes would be helpful in making a decision. The independent
   body shall not prohibit the presentation to it for consideration of
   information by UPMCHS, Children's, the pediatric specialists of UPP, or
   the health plan, including but not limited, to the following: A. The
   current contract between the health plan and Children's or UPP. B. The
   historic reimbursement contract rates for Western Pennsylvania and
   Allegheny County. C. The rate of inflation as measured by the Medical
   Care Portion of the Consumer Price Index, since the current contract
   between the health plan and the provider was entered and the extent to
   which any price increases built into the contract were less than the
   rate of inflation. D. Inflation factors in Western Pennsylvania and
   Allegheny County for healthcare and medical services. E. The average
   reimbursement rates for other children's hospitals ranked in the top
   five nationally by U.S. News & World Report, -9- as collected and
   aggregated by the Children's Health Corporation of America, as adjusted
   for the difference in the cost of living for the Pittsburgh MSA as
   compared to the home MSA of each of the five hospitals. F. The costs
   incurred in providing services to Children's patients. G. The actuarial
   impact of a proposed contract or rates charged by the health plan and a
   comparison of these rates in the Service Area of Children's with health
   plan rates in other parts of the country. H. Whether a price proposed
   by the provider for Children's services or for services of the
   pediatric specialists of UPP would subsidize the UPMC Health Plan. I.
   The price paid by the health plan at similar children's hospitals. J.
   Whether a proposed risk contract puts UPMCHS at risk to provide
   additional care without additional compensation. K. The expected
   patient volume, which likely will result from the contract. 14.11. The
   independent body shall not consider the extent to which a health plan
   is or is not purchasing other hospital or physician services from
   UPMCHS. 14.12. Once the arbitration process has been invoked, the
   independent body shall set rules for confidentiality, exchange and
   verification of information and procedures to insure the fairness for
   all involved. -10- 14.13. The independent body may select either the
   health plan's contract or the contract of Children's, UPMCHS or the
   pediatric physicians of UPP, whichever is applicable, or impose
   contract terms it believes are reasonable. The parties are bound by the
   decision of the independent body. 14.14. Because of the important
   interests affected, the arbitration process shall commence within
   twenty (20) days after triggered by a health plan and shall not exceed
   three (3) days, and the independent body shall render its determination
   within seven (7) days after the conclusion of the review. The parties,
   by agreement, or the independent body, because of the complexity of the
   issues involved, may extend any of the time periods in this section,
   but the arbitration process shall take no more than ninety (90) days.
   14.15. UPMCHS, Children's or the pediatric specialists of UPP and the
   health plans shall each bear the cost of their respective presentations
   to the independent body and shall each bear one-half of any other costs
   associated with the independent review. 14.16. During the above
   independent final review, if a health plan has a contract for
   Children's services and the pediatric specialists of UPP, they will
   continue to pay the reimbursement rates set forth in that contract.
   This amount will be adjusted retroactively to reflect the actual
   pricing agreed to in the contract. 14.17. If a health plan has no
   contract for Children's services and the pediatric specialists of UPP,
   the health plan shall pay for all services -11- by Children's or the
   pediatric specialists of UPP, for which payment has not been made, an
   amount equal to the average reimbursement rates for other children's
   hospitals ranked in the top five nationally by U.S. News & World
   Report, as collected and aggregated by the Children's Health
   Corporation of America, as adjusted for the difference in the cost of
   living for the Pittsburgh MSA as compared to the home MSA of each of
   the five hospitals. This amount will be adjusted retroactively to
   reflect the actual pricing agreed to in the contract. 14.18. If the
   amounts paid pursuant to paragraphs 14.16 and 14.17 are less than the
   amounts owed under the contract awarded as the result of arbitration,
   the health plan shall pay interest on the difference. If the amounts
   paid pursuant to paragraphs 14.16 and 14.17 are greater than the
   amounts owed under the contract awarded as the result of arbitration,
   UPMCHS, Children's or the pediatric specialists of UPP shall pay
   interest on the difference. For purposes of calculating interest due
   under this paragraph, the interest rate shall be the U.S. prime lending
   rate offered by Mellon Bank of Pittsburgh or its successor as of the
   date of the independent body's decision on arbitration. 14.19. It shall
   not be a violation of this agreement for UPMCHS to offer one contract
   which includes hospital and pediatric specialists of UPP, subject to
   the provisions of Section 19. -12- 15. Staff Privileges 15.1. UPMCHS
   and Children's shall maintain the current medical staff at Children's
   Hospital using criteria as set forth in the current Children's medical
   staff bylaws and credentialing policy and as established by the Joint
   Commission on Accreditation of Health Care Organizations and consistent
   with practices and contractual obligations at Children's as of the date
   of this Final Order and any current or future regulatory requirements.
   15.2. Employment by UPMCHS or participation in the UPMC Health Plan
   shall not be criteria for granting staff privileges at Children's.
   15.3. UPMCHS and Children's shall not prohibit, as a condition of staff
   privileges at Children's, a physician from practicing at other
   facilities. UPMCHS and Children's may not engage in "economic
   credentialing" meaning that staff privileges at Children's are granted
   or conditioned on the amount of business or patients a physician brings
   or may bring to Children's, unless related to quality of care
   requirements. 16. Nonexclusivity 16.1. UPMCHS shall not enter into a
   provider contract with any health plan on terms which prohibit
   Children's from contracting with any other health plan for any services
   Children's offers. 16.2. UPMCHS shall not enter into a provider
   contract with any health plan on terms which prohibit the health plan
   from contracting with any other health care provider for pediatric
   hospital or physician services. -13- 16.3. UPMCHS shall not prohibit
   pediatric physicians, who are members in any UPMC physician-hospital
   network, but who are not employees of UPP or UPMCHS, from participating
   in any other physician-hospital networks, health plans, or integrated
   delivery systems. 17. Employment of Physicians - UPMCHS shall give the
   Attorney General 30 days notice prior to the closing of any agreement
   to employ or acquire a pediatric primary care physician or group
   practice within Allegheny, Armstrong, Beaver, Butler, Fayette,
   Washington and Westmoreland Counties. This obligation to give notice
   shall not arise if the employment or acquisition of a pediatric primary
   care physician will not increase the number of pediatric primary care
   physicians UPMCHS and Children's employs in counties listed in this
   paragraph beyond the number employed on the date of entry of this Final
   Order. 18. Residency Programs - UPMCHS and Children's shall continue to
   offer pediatric residency rotations to hospitals in Allegheny,
   Armstrong, Beaver, Butler, Fayette, Washington and Westmoreland
   Counties to the extent they currently do so. 19. Non-Tying Provision
   19.1. UPMCHS shall not require an insurer, network or other payor to
   have a contract with any or all UPMCHS-owned facilities as a condition
   of having a contract for Children's services or the services of the
   pediatric specialists of UPP. 19.2. UPMCHS shall not require that an
   insurer, network or other payor agree not to contract with certain
   hospitals, health systems or other -14- providers as a condition of
   having a contract for Children's services or the services of the
   pediatric specialists of UPP. 19.3. UPMCHS shall not require a
   hospital, health system or other provider to have a contract with the
   UPMC Health Plan in order for that hospital, health system or other
   provider to be able to refer patients to Children's. 19.4. UPMCHS shall
   not require that a hospital, health system or other provider agree not
   to contract with certain insurers, networks or other payors in order
   for that hospital, health system or other provider to be able to refer
   patients to Children's. 20. Nondiscrimination 20.1. UPMCHS shall not
   discriminate against a patient of Children's or the pediatric
   specialists of UPP from the Service Area of Children's based upon the
   location where the patient resides, the patient's health plan or the
   patient's choice of primary care physician. 20.2. UPMCHS shall not
   discriminate against health plans, physicians or other medical
   providers based on ownership or employment of health plans, physicians
   or other medical providers in the provision of medically necessary
   services, or the release of medical records or information about
   patients who receive treatment or services from Children's or the
   pediatric specialists at UPP. 21. "Most Favored Nations" Provisions in
   Contracts With Health Plans - UPMCHS shall not enter into any provider
   contract for Children's services with any health plan on terms that
   include a "most favored nations clause." If -15- there is an existing
   "most favored nations clause" in current Children's provider contracts,
   UPMCHS agrees not to renew or extend such contracts without deleting
   that clause. UPMCHS shall inform the Attorney General of the presence
   of a "most favored nations clause" in any existing Children's provider
   contract by providing a list of such contracts to the Attorney General
   not more than sixty (60) days from entry of this Final Order. 22.
   Future Sales and Acquisitions of Hospital Assets - UPMCHS shall not
   acquire any hospital in Allegheny, Armstrong, Beaver, Butler, Fayette,
   Washington or Westmoreland County, or permit any hospital in these
   counties to acquire UPMCHS, without providing written notice at least
   ninety (90) days prior to the date of closing consistent with the
   Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, Office of Attorney General, Review
   Protocol for Fundamental Change Transactions Affecting Health Care
   Nonprofits. UPMCHS agrees in regard to the above to waive the
   confidentiality protections under the Hart- Scott-Rodino Act, 15 U.S.C.
   § 18a(h), the Antitrust Civil Process Act, 15 U.S.C. §§ 1311 et seq and
   any other applicable confidentiality provisions in effect as of the
   date of this Final Order, for the purpose of allowing the United States
   Department of Justice or the Federal Trade Commission and the
   Pennsylvania Office of Attorney General to share documents, information
   and analyses. 23. Binding on Successors and Assigns - The terms of this
   Final Order are binding on UPMCHS and Children's, their directors,
   officers, managers, employees, successors and assigns, including but
   not limited to, any person or entity to whom UPMCHS or Children's may
   be sold, leased or otherwise -16- transferred, during the term of the
   Final Order. UPMCHS and Children's shall not permit any substantial
   part of UPMCHS and Children's to be acquired by any other entity unless
   that entity agrees in writing to be bound by the provisions of this
   Final Order. 24. Transfer of Children's Functions to Another UPMCHS
   Facility - If any clinical service currently provided at Children's as
   of the date of this Final Order is relocated from Children's to another
   UPMCHS facility, the terms of this Final Order shall apply to that
   clinical service. 25. Complaint Procedure - Any person, health care
   provider, health plan, or consumer of medical services, who wishes to
   report a possible violation of this Final Order shall send a written
   description of the alleged violation to the Chief Deputy Attorney
   General, Antitrust Section, Office of Attorney General, and the Chief
   Deputy Attorney General, Charitable Trusts & Organizations Section,
   14th Floor, Strawberry Square, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania 17120 and to
   UPMCHS's President, 200 Lothrop Street, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. UPMCHS
   shall respond in writing to the complainant and to the Attorney General
   within thirty (30) days from the receipt of any complaint. If the
   complaint is still unresolved, the Attorney General will attempt to
   negotiate a satisfactory resolution. If UPMCHS believes a complaint to
   be frivolous, it may so advise the Attorney General, and its
   obligations under this paragraph will be satisfied unless it is
   otherwise advised by the Attorney General to respond more fully to the
   complaint. UPMCHS will cooperate with the Attorney General to attempt
   to resolve the complaint. -17- 26. Compliance - If the Attorney General
   receives a complaint pursuant to paragraph 25 of this Final Order, upon
   reasonable notice during normal business hours, any duly authorized
   representative of the Attorney General shall be permitted: A. access to
   all non-privileged books, ledgers, accounts, correspondence, memoranda,
   other records and documents relevant to the complaint, in the
   possession or under the control of UPMCHS, relating to any matters
   contained in this Final Order; and B. to interview officers, managers
   or employees regarding any matters relevant to the complaint contained
   in this Final Order. 27. Reimbursement of Expenses - Upon entry of this
   Final Order, Children's and UPMCHS shall jointly pay $50,000 to
   reimburse the Attorney General's costs incurred to conduct its
   investigation, which payment shall be used for future Public Protection
   Division purposes. 28. Enforcement 28.1. If the Attorney General
   believes that there has been a violation of this Final Order, UPMCHS
   shall be promptly notified thereof. The Attorney General shall
   thereafter permit UPMCHS a reasonable opportunity to cure any alleged
   violation without instituting legal action. If the alleged violation is
   not substantially cured by UPMCHS within sixty (60) days of the
   notification, the Attorney General may thereafter seek to undertake any
   remedial action deemed appropriate. This time period shall be extended
   in circumstances where the sixty (60) day period is not sufficient time
   to cure the alleged violation. -18- 28.2. If the Attorney General
   prevails, in any action or proceeding it brings to enforce this Final
   Order or otherwise arising out of or relating hereto, the Court shall
   award costs and expenses, including a reasonable sum for attorneys'
   fees. 29. Legal Exposure - No provision of this Final Order shall be
   interpreted or construed to require UPMCHS to take any action, or to
   prohibit UPMCHS from taking any action, if that requirement or
   prohibition would expose UPMCHS to significant risk of liability for
   any type of negligence (including negligent credentialing or negligence
   in making referrals) or malpractice. 30. Notices - All notices required
   by this Final Order shall be sent by certified or registered mail,
   return receipt requested, postage prepaid, or by hand delivery, to: If
   to the Attorney General: Chief Deputy Attorney General Charitable
   Trusts & Organizations Section Office of Attorney General 14th Floor,
   Strawberry Square Harrisburg, PA 17120 and Chief Deputy Attorney
   General Antitrust Section Office of Attorney General 14th Floor,
   Strawberry Square Harrisburg, PA 17120 -19- If to UPMCHS: President,
   UPMCHS 200 Lothrop Street Pittsburgh, PA 15213 cc to: Senior Vice
   President and Counsel UPMC Health System Suite 11086, Forbes Tower 200
   Lothrop Street Pittsburgh, PA 15213-2582 31. Averment of Truth - UPMCHS
   and Children's aver that, to the best of their knowledge, the
   information they have provided to the Attorney General in connection
   with this Final Order is true, and that no material information has
   been intentionally withheld. 32. Termination - This Final Order shall
   expire on the twentieth (20th) anniversary of its date of entry if it
   has not terminated prior to that time as provided in Paragraph 33. 33.
   Modification - If either the Attorney General or UPMCHS believes that
   modification of this Final Order would be in the public interest, that
   party shall give notice to the other, and the parties shall attempt to
   agree on a modification. If the parties agree on a modification, they
   shall jointly petition the Court to modify the Final Order. If the
   parties cannot agree on a modification, the party seeking modification
   may petition the Court for modification and shall bear the burden of
   persuasion that the requested modification is in the public interest.
   34. Retention of Jurisdiction - Unless this Final Order is terminated
   early pursuant to Paragraph 33, jurisdiction is retained by the Orphans
   Court -20- Division of the Court of Common Pleas of Allegheny County
   for twenty (20) years to enable any party to apply to this Court for
   such further orders and directions as may be necessary and appropriate
   for the interpretation, modification and enforcement of this Final
   Order. 35. No Admission of Liability - UPMCHS and Children's, desiring
   to resolve the Attorney General's concerns without trial or
   adjudication of any issue of fact or law, have consented to entry of
   this Final Order, which is not an admission of liability by UPMCHS or
   Children's as to any issue of fact or law and may not be offered or
   received into evidence in any action as an admission of liability. 36.
   Condition Precedent - This Final Order shall become null and void if
   the definitive agreement between UPMCHS, Children's and Children's
   Hospital of Pittsburgh Foundation dated September 5, 2001 is
   terminated, enjoined or otherwise not performed. Dated this ____ day of
   October, 2001 -21- COMMONWEALTH OF PENNSYLVANIA UPMC HEALTH SYSTEM
   By:____________________________
   By:______By:________________________________ ___ Jeffrey A. Romoff,
   President and Chief D. Michael Fisher Executive Officer Attorney
   General (717) 783-2853 Attest: Alexis L. Barbieri Executive Deputy
   Attorney General Director, Public Protection Division CHILDREN'S
   HOSPITAL OF PITTSBURGH James A. Donahue, III and CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL OF
   Chief Deputy Attorney General PITTSBURGH FOUNDATION Antitrust Section
   (717) 787-4530 By:________________________________ ___ Ronald L. Violi,
   President Mark A. Pacella Chief Deputy Attorney General Attest:
   Charitable Trusts and Organizations Section (717) 783-2853
   ___________________________________ Attorneys for the Commonwealth of
   Wendelynne J. Newton, Esquire Pennsylvania, Office of Attorney Buchanan
   Ingersoll Professional Corporation General, 14th Floor, Strawberry One
   Oxford Center, 20th Floor Square, 301 Grant Street Harrisburg, PA 17120
   Pittsburgh, PA 15219-1410 (412) 562-8932 Counsel for UPMCHS, Children's
   Hospital of Pittsburgh and Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh Foundation
   ___________________________________ Edwin L. Klett, Esquire Klett,
   Rooney Lieber & Schorling, P.C. 40th Floor, One Oxford Centre
   Pittsburgh, PA 15219-6498 (412) 392-2178 Counsel for UPMCHS -22- IN THE
   COURT OF COMMON PLEAS OF ALLEGHENY COUNTY, PENNSYLVANIA ORPHANS' COURT
   DIVISION IN RE: CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL OF ) PITTSBURGH AND CHILDREN'S )
   HOSPITAL OF PITTSBURGH ) NO. 6425 of 2001 FOUNDATION ) Pennsylvania
   Nonprofit Corporations FINAL ORDER HONORABLE ROBERT A. KELLY Copies
   Sent To: Alexis L. Barbieri Executive Deputy Attorney General Director,
   Public Protection Division James A. Donahue Chief Deputy Attorney
   General Antitrust Section Mark A. Pacella Chief Deputy Attorney General
   Charitable Trusts & Organizations Section Office of Attorney General
   14th Floor, Strawberry Square Harrisburg, PA 17120 Wendelynne J.
   Newton, Esquire Buchanan Ingersoll Professional Corporation One Oxford
   Center, 20th Floor 301 Grant Street Pittsburgh, PA 15219-1410 Edwin L.
   Klett, Esquire Klett Rooney Lieber & Schorling, P.C. 40th Floor, One
   Oxford Centre Pittsburgh, PA 15219-6498
