http://herzberg.ca.sandia.gov/TclCourse/

                  E.J. Friedman-Hill's Tcl/Tk Course

                Tcl/Tk Programming in Five Easy Lessons

                                                       Tcl/Tk

   Tcl is an easy-to-learn, portable, powerful and extensible scripting
   language. Tk is an easy and flexible graphics toolkit for Tcl. Sun has
   just released a Netscape Plug-in which lets you deploy 'Tclets' on the
   World Wide Web. Tclets are very similar to Java applets, but much
   easier to write! You can use Tcl with your Windows, Macintosh or UNIX
   computer, and best of all, it's all free!

   These are the notes for a Tcl/Tk programming class I'm putting
   together. They borrow liberally from a set of slides originally
   assembled by John Ousterhout himself.

   Right now, they are available only in PowerPoint source form and in
   low-quality HTML form; this might change as time goes on. Note that the
   HTML is missing all the figures AND some of the text!

   Here are the notes for Week 1 as PowerPoint, an overview of Tcl/Tk and
   an introduction to Tcl syntax. Here is the same thing as HTML.

   Here's Week 2 as PowerPoint, a look at the complete Tcl language. Here
   is a ratty HTML version, and here's the stack code example.

   Here's Week 3 as zipped PowerPoint. It's an incredible 7+ megabytes
   unzipped, but only 205,000 bytes zipped (lots of screen shots.) Here is
   a ratty HTML version, and here'sa worked version of the homework from
   last week.

   Week 4 (zipped PowerPoint) presents a number of examples of text and
   canvas widget usage, and looks at creating Tclets for the WWW. Here is
   the HTML version.

   Week 5 (zipped PowerPoint) discusses customizing Tcl by adding your own
   C code, and discusses a number of popular Tcl extensions you can
   download for free. Here is the HTML version.

   Visit the Tcl/Tk home page at Sun Labs to get your own Tcl/Tk
   developer's kit.

   Check out the rest of my site.
   Questions? Comments? Mail me at ejfried@ca.sandia.gov.
