http://www.bisnis.doc.gov/bisnis/finance/020111MoscowFW.htm

                                       Moscow Financial Weekly



                    For the Week Ending January 11, 2002

                Treasury Attache's office, US Embassy Moscow


Highlights This Week


   ·        Tariff increases are set

   ·        VTB expanding into retail

   ·        Weekly Focus:  What’s next for Mortgages


Key Economic Indicators


Indicators

                                                        Level

                                                                     % chg 1 week

                                                                              % chg since Jan. 1

Ruble/$ (MICEX) UTS

                                                       30.4399

                                                                         1.00

                                                                                     1.00

Monetary Base*

                                                     R706.4 bln

                                                                          -0.3

                                                                                     -0.3

CPI

                                                         NA

                                                                          NA

                                                                                    18.6**

International Reserves*

                                                      $36.7 bln

                                                                          0.55

                                                                                     0.55

RTS Index (end of week)

                                                       290.86

                                                                         5.06

                                                               11.85

Refinancing rate

                                                         25

                                                                           0

                                                                                       0

   *For week prior

   **2001 figure



   Economic Developments


   Government Announcements


   PM Kasyanov announced final 2001 GDP growth of 5.2%.  Given the
   deteriorating external environment in the second half of the year, this
   is an impressive performance.


   The new tariff setting agency announced annual natural monopolies' rate
   increases for 2002 of 26% for Railways (cargo traffic); 32% for RAO UES
   (electricity); 35% for Gazprom (gas).  These rates are higher and
   earlier than expected, representing a victory for the monopolies but
   also for reducing implicit subsidies.  It also appears that the GOR is
   more willing to risk pushing up inflation in order to achieve its goals
   for monopoly tariff reform.


Banking sector


   Vneshtorgbank (VTB), the biggest bank in Russia by IAS capital
   standards, has prepared a program to develop retail banking. As of last
   December, the sum of household account balances in VTB amounted to just
   R4.8 billion (a little over 2% of liabilities), compared with R350
   billion in household accounts in Sberbank (60% of liabilities). VTB
   Chairman Yuri Ponomarev said in a newspaper interview that he sees "a
   big potential for quality and rapid growth of this line of bank
   business," although it would require investments of  $10-15 million a
   year for 3 consecutive years to develop a branch network.  Currently
   Sberbank has 75% of the retail banking market.  Alfa-Bank's share is
   1.7%, Gazprombank's - 1.4%, Bank of Moscow's - 1.0%, VTB's - 0.9%,
   Rosbank's - 0.8%.


   The CBR recently announced an expansion of its refinancing program to
   encourage lending into the real sector of the economy.  Launched in St.
   Petersburg in late 2000, CBR provides loans to banks against veksels
   (promissory notes) issued by real sector enterprises, claims on loan
   agreements with such enterprises, and guarantees of other banks used as
   collateral.  This program has now been expanded to cover the Vologda,
   Leningrad, Rostov, Samara and Sverdlovsk regions, Primorsky krai, the
   city of Moscow and Moscow region.  According to the CBR, the main
   problem hindering further development of this program is the poor
   financial standing of enterprises-borrowers.


   According to Kommersant-daily, Avtobank, purchased in late 2001 by
   Siberian Aluminum, Nafta-Moskva and Millhouse Capital, is up for sale
   again. The paper claims it will be bought by investment banking group
   NIKoil for mere $15 million. So far, neither Avtobank nor NIKoil
   confirmed this statement.  However, NIKoil announced that it had signed
   a "consulting agreement" with Avtobank according to which "both parties
   would develop distribution of financial products of NIKoil through the
   retail network of Avtobank and NIKoil consisting of 106 branches and
   additional offices in Moscow and other regions."


   The CBR is going to do a one-time survey of authorized banks and their
   clients, looking at their investments into securities issued by
   nonresidents. Banks have to provide the required information by
   February 25.  The data will be used to compile the BOP and the
   international investment position of the Russian Federation.  The CBR
   promises to keep the information provided by banks confidential and
   publish only aggregate statistics. The survey is done under the
   auspices of the IMF as part of the Financial Sector Assessment Program
   (FSAP).


Financial markets


   Forex Market


   The first UTS session of 2002 opened on January 9 with the dollar being
   traded around R30.6/$. Soon after opening, the CBR participated in the
   trading with an offer at R30.595/$, and then started shifting its offer
   down.  The CBR sold a reported $400 million, bringing the trade volume
   to $675.38, an unprecedented high for a MICEX morning session.  As a
   result of CBR pressure the rate in the interbank market temporarily
   moved to R30.4951/$.  However, CBR's intervention failed to discourage
   the market fully and by the end of the day the interbank rate rose
   again to R30.58/$. In the remaining two days of the week the CBR went
   on intervening in the UTS, selling about $200 million a day, and
   gradually lowering the dollar rate. Dealers point out that besides
   supporting the ruble the CBR also profited from the interventions: at
   the beginning of each UTS it sold dollars at high rate, but at the end
   of the day bought dollars back more cheaply, albeit in much smaller
   amounts.


   Since the last UTS of 2001 which took place on December 27 the ruble
   weakened 1.00%, closing in the UTS on Friday at 30.4399/$.  MICEX
   weekly trade volumes were $1229.00 million, $302.28 million and $183.61
   million for the morning (UTS), afternoon "tod" and "tom" sessions,
   respectively.


   [image003.gif]


   [image005.gif]



   Prices


   Inflation during the first 8 days of January totaled 0.6%. The average
   daily inflation was 0.07% , which is higher than the average daily rate
   of 0.051 in December 2001 (inflation for that month was 1.6%), but
   lower than the January 2001 level of 0.088 when prices grew by 2.8%.


   [image007.gif]



   Eurobonds


   Brokers helped contribute to the general rise in Russian Eurobonds
   prices by increasing their holdings in anticipation of institutional
   money inflows in the beginning of the year.  The rest of the Eurobond
   market did not react to these developments.


   [image009.gif]

   [image011.gif]




   Interest/Bond Market


   Bonds/Bills


   The secondary GKO/OFZ market continued to grow last week.  In fact,
   since the beginning of the year there have been no downward close
   prices, most likely due to high seasonal ruble liquidity.


   [image013.gif]


   Overnight rates


   Balances on banks' correspondent accounts at the CBR fell last week
   finishing the week at R81.6 billion level, which is still above the
   average.  The short-term ruble interbank loan market responded by a
   sharp decrease in the rates - overnights were down at 3.46 (MIACR) at
   the end of the week.


   [image015.gif]


   [image017.gif]



   Stock Market


   The stock market opened on an upbeat note on Tuesday (Monday was a
   Russian holiday) and was up by 4.29% for the day on very high RTS
   trading volume of $38.6 - the highest level since the mid-July 2001.
   After moving slightly further up next day and piercing the 290 level,
   the RTS index experienced a downturn on Thursday on lower volume of
   $18.8 million. On Friday, it was up again and finished the week on the
   level slightly above 190, which is the highest since May 7, 1998. The
   RTS index was up by 5.1% in dollar terms over the week.


   [image019.gif]


   [image021.gif]


   [image023.gif]


   International Reserves and Monetary Base


   International reserves continued to grow during the first week of
   January and were up by $200 million, reaching $36.7 million.


   As was expected after the new year, the monetary base began to slide
   last week and lost R2.1 billion going down to R706.4 billion from a
   high of R708.5 billion last week.


                               [image025.gif]
          Weekly Focus: What’s next for Russia's Mortgage Market?


   While Russia can’t count 2001 as a landmark year in terms of financial
   sector reform, prospects for development of a functioning mortgage
   market did brighten a bit.  Mortgage loan disbursements funded by Delta
   Credit, the US-Russia Investment Fund’s mortgage arm and the largest
   source of commercial mortgage loans, jumped to $3.2 million per month,
   more than its entire credit portfolio up to this year.  Other non-bank
   and governmental programs also began to be more active. Toward the end
   of the year, amendments to the Mortgage Law and enactment of the Land
   Code were passed, addressing some key barriers to growth in the
   sector.  Still, the basic problem of inadequate sources of long-term
   capital remains a major problem that may stunt overall growth.  This
   week we take a look at developments in the mortgage market and assess
   likely trends in 2002 and beyond.


   Current Status of the Market


   There is not comprehensive data on mortgage finance and the different
   approaches make comparisons difficult.


   Delta Credit with a $20 billion portfolio at the end of 2001 is the
   market leader for individual mortgages in the classic sense – over
   ten-year dollar loans at commercial rates (avg. 11.9%), collateralized
   by the property.  Delta has worked through 17 other banks to place and
   service its loans but, having just gotten its banking license, it is
   now consolidating these onto its own balance sheet.  When this process
   is finished, the number of Russian banks handling commercial mortgages
   will drop significantly. Sberbank also provides what it calls mortgages
   at what appears to be a subsidized ruble rate of 14%.  These loans in
   fact are more like consumer loans, not necessarily collateralized with
   the property, so they are not really comparable.  Finally some pocket
   banks provide mortgage lending to employees of their financial group
   but these also imply different credit terms than a commercial mortgage.


   Non-banks entities also are involved.  Regional governments as well as
   the city governments of Moscow and St. Petersburg run subsidized
   mortgage programs. These suffer from a lack of financing and problems
   with corruption.  Construction companies also have provided housing
   finance by allowing purchase with a delayed payment as long as the
   purchaser occupies the property.


   Limits to Market Growth


   Oddly enough, Delta reports its biggest problem in the short-term is
   the overly tight housing market in Moscow.  It has a bottleneck of
   pre-approved mortgage applications but the potential borrowers can’t
   find available apartments. This in itself bodes well for market
   growth.


   More fundamentally however, as with leasing and corporate lending, the
   mortgage market in Russia has been stymied by the lack of long-term
   capital, due to the banking system's inability to attract long-term
   deposits or international loans.  This in large part has been the
   reason that Delta, armed with a stable source of lending capital from
   the U.S. government, has been able to make such in-roads.  While
   solving the systemic problem of inadequate long-term financing will
   take years to address, the first order challenge is to build a
   secondary market for mortgages.  This would give lenders a way to
   manage their balance sheets and long-term investors a way to access the
   market.  A mortgage securities market would set the stage for
   attracting insurance company reserves and pension funds, currently a
   negligible factor, but likely to grow substantially.  Draft pension
   reform legislation includes mortgage securities as one of the eligible
   investment for new personal pension accounts.  Plans for such a market
   have been around for several years and not shown much life. To some
   extent this reflects a chicken-egg problem: banks will be loath to lend
   long-term until they know they can sell their loans, but unless there
   are enough loans to sell, a market can’t develop.  Estimates are that
   it will take about $50 million of tradable loans to start a market.
   Given current growth rates this threshold is likely to be reached in
   the next 1-2 years.


   The mortgage market is also hampered by the fact that loan officers
   lack the ability to assess risk properly, particularly on long-term
   ruble loans.  While dollar loans rates are much easier to assess, these
   strongly favor those with dollar source income due to currency risk.
   For the market to prosper lenders must have the skills and confidence
   to lend in rubles.


   Recent Changes to Legislation


   Other problems for the mortgage market look closer to being solved.


   Until the Land Code was enacted, lenders faced the problem of having no
   claim to the land on which their borrower’s property was located.
   Since this presented less of a problem for urban apartments, this has
   been where mortgages have focused to date.

   The Land Code, which creates the legal basis on which land rights can
   be sold, transferred and guaranteed, will dramatically expand the
   potential market for mortgages, both in commercial real estate and for
   single family homes and dachas.  There is some uncertainty about the
   initial effects of the new code, but it is sure to provide a positive
   psychological impact to those that were hesitant to buy or sell land
   previously due to the murky legal situation.  In addition, initial
   property valuations are likely to be artificially low and thus could
   lead to strong price gyrations.  However over the longer-term mortgages
   could be a major source of financing for new suburban development.


   In addition to the Land Code, late last year the Duma approved an
   amendment to the mortgage law allowing the eviction of "malevolent"
   nonpaying clients.  The amendment is effective as of January 1, 2002,
   and permits eviction of residents owing three months worth of payments
   on their loans.  Prior to this law borrowers were required to sign away
   their right to housing in order to obtain a mortgage.  (Article 40 of
   the Russian Constitution provides a right to housing and a defense
   against arbitrary deprivation of housing.)  This practice was viewed as
   legally suspect and thus undermined creditors’ confidence in their
   ability to exercise their rights. In addition, families with children
   had to be provided with alternative housing in order to be evicted.
   The new law removes what, for the moment, was as much a perceptual
   problem as a real one. Delta Bank reports nearly a 100 percent payment
   rate.  Still creditor rights will become more important in the future
   as the real estate market begins to take off and the supply of
   extremely qualified borrowers dries up.


   Finally, changes to the tax code, which came into effect last year,
   provide much needed clarity to the treatment of mortgage payments.
   Until 2001, no one knew if principal and interest were deductible or
   just interest.  Mortgage holders who deducted both thus faced the risk
   of a sudden bill for unpaid taxes if the law turned out to be
   different.  In fact, the tax code only allows interest to be deducted.
   However, loans issued before the tax code went into effect were
   grandfathered, ostensibly not penalizing those who deducted both
   principle and interest.  Clarity on this issue will make evaluating
   credit worthiness and loan cost much easier.


   Room for Subsidized Mortgages?


   There has been a fair amount of discussion on the desirability of
   subsidized mortgage programs.  The arguments break down as follows:
   Those in favor point out that the current pace of commercial growth
   will take many years to meet potential demand, that Russians are too
   poor to pay market rates and that banks will tend to ignore the low end
   of the market.  Those who oppose subsidies argue that it will undercut
   the commercial market, be unsustainable, and in the Russian context
   likely lead to corruption and favoritism.


   The evidence would support some of both arguments.  Comparing a newly
   announced Moscow regional subsidy program to Delta’s loan portfolio
   shows a significant difference in target loan size.  The Moscow program
   envisages average loans between $5,000-6,000 for 50 percent of the
   value vs. $30,000 for Delta.  Interest on the loans would be around 12
   percent in rubles, about the same as Delta’s dollar loans rates
   (implying a big subsidy).  It is also worth noting that, based on the
   increase in business from last year, Delta plans to move away from the
   lower-end market and expand into the higher-end market.  This would
   make the subsidy amount even larger.  This is not to say that Delta is
   not targeting a mainstream market; most of its clients have salaries
   between $500 to $1,500, considered middle-class income in Moscow.
   Still there is clearly room at the bottom; even the program director in
   Moscow Oblast admits that only about 15 percent of the 240,000 families
   on the waiting list would be qualified for even the subsidized
   mortgages.


   The problem is making subsidies work.  Experience in the regions
   indicates that these programs generally do not reach their intended
   targets.  This, along with the problem of funding, would favor those
   who argue against major mortgage subsidy programs.


    Prospects in the medium-term


   As with most developments in the financial sector, significant growth
   in mortgages – especially the question of long-term money - will depend
   on bank reform.  Still, the Land Code and other improvements have the
   ability to boost the number of loans in the short term, possible
   igniting a secondary market and drawing more lenders into the market.
   Over the longer term, with simultaneous growth of other retail banking
   services, mortgages could be become a staple of a reformed banking
   system.






   EXPLANATORY NOTES


   1. EXCHANGE RATES: SELT - "System of Electronic Lot (currency) trading"
   -- a computer based OTC-style trading system organized by the Moscow
   Interbank Currency Exchange (MICEX).  "$-tod" price is the price of the
   dollar with same day delivery.  "$-tom" is the price of the dollar with
   delivery on the next day.  Minimum lot size for each of the dollar
   instruments is $100,000.  Average price is quoted as the weighted
   average of all actual deals entered into the system by various banks.


   2. INTEREST RATES: Moscow InterBank Actual Credit Rate is calculated as
   the average-weighted rate on the volume of actual transactions in
   interbank loans by commercial banks.


   3. STOCK INDICES: The RTS index is the only official indicator of the
   Russian Trading System.  It is calculated every 30 minutes of the RTS
   trade session, starting at 12:00.  It comprises 60 shares of 35 leading
   companies.  These shares are included in so-called Category "A"
   listings.  The index indicates over-the-counter stock prices.  The
   index represents the ratio of the total market capitalization of the
   shares of the companies selected for the index to the total market
   capitalization of the same shares as of the initial date multiplied by
   the index value as of the initial date (31 December 1997) using a base
   of 100 beginning September 1, 1995.  The ruble-adjusted index is a
   derivative of the main dollar index, using the same base.  The MICEX
   index is calculated by the stock section of the Moscow Interbank
   Currency Exchange and is based on the price fluctuations of 17 shares
   of the MICEX's first and second listings.


   4. INTERNATIONAL RESERVES OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION represent the
   amount of reserve assets of the Bank of Russia and Finance Ministry.
   Those reserve assets are comprised of monetary gold, special drawing
   rights, the reserve position in the IMF and other liquid foreign
   assets.  The latter include short-term deposits in non-resident and
   resident banks, balances in current accounts, foreign government
   securities, repo agreements with these securities made with
   non-residents, and other liquid assets (accrued interest on these
   assets is not included).  Monetary gold is evaluated at a floating
   rate, revised periodically, but not always reported immediately.
   Foreign currency assets are converted into U.S. dollars on the basis of
   the cross rates of foreign currencies to the dollar, calculated using
   the official rates of the ruble to these foreign currencies, as set by
   the CBR.


   5.  MONETARY BASE (M1) is comprised of cash and reserves of commercial
   banks on deposit in the CBR.  It is the basic part of the money supply
   (M2).


   6. Lombard Credits, distributed through auctions, are aimed to provide
   liquidity to the banking sector.  These credits are extended to banks
   on the basis of collateral.
