http://www.msha.gov/mnmletter01172002.htm

   U.S. Department of Labor
                           Mine Safety and Health Administration
                           4015 Wilson Boulevard
                           Arlington, Virginia 22203-1984       [DOLLOGO.GIF]

   January 17, 2002
   Dear Metal and Nonmetal Mining Industry Colleague:
   As you may know, the metal and nonmetal mining community set a historic
   benchmark last year with 30 fatalities. I congratulate you on a job
   well done. You can all be proud that your efforts saved many lives last
   year, and I want to congratulate you for excellent progress. This was a
   historically low number of fatal accidents. At the same time, however,
   30 miners are too many to lose, and their deaths were a devastating
   loss to family and friends. We must continue to work toward the day
   when no family is faced with the loss of a loved one while working at a
   mine.
   Last year when I came to the Mine Safety and Health Administration, I
   set a new goal for fatal accident reduction throughout the mining
   industry, a 15% reduction in fatal accidents per year. Across the
   country we heard support for this goal from groups and individuals
   throughout the mining industry. We held dozens of meetings across the
   country asking for information and constructive suggestions so that
   MSHA could work better with the mining community to achieve these
   goals. I would like to thank each and every one of you who
   participated.
   Last year the Nation's metal and nonmetal mines met and surpassed the
   goal we set. Achieving this again this year will occur if we continue
   to work together and if we all make safety a value. Let's reaffirm our
   commitment every day to be vigilant and to search for ways to reduce
   the risks faced by miners.
   Once again, congratulations and thanks. We in MSHA look forward to
   working with you in 2002.
   Sincerely and with all best wishes for a safe and healthful New Year,
   Signature for Dave D. Lauriski
   Dave D. Lauriski
   Assistant Secretary of Labor for
   Mine Safety and Health

    [spacer.gif] Disclaimer Privacy Statement Search Site Go to Home Page
