http://eosdatainfo.gsfc.nasa.gov/eosdata/landsat7/platform.html

                                  Gold Bar
                   Landsat 7 label Mission Specifications
                                  Gold Bar


   EOS Missions Chart Platform Home Data Access info Data info    Science
                                                               Team info


   Landsat 7 is the latest in a series of satellites that have provided a
   continuous set of calibrated Earth science data to national and
   international users since 1972. Landsat 7 is a tri-agency joint program
   of NASA, NOAA and the USGS. NASA is responsible for the development and
   launch of the Landsat 7 satellite and the development of the ground
   system. The Landsat Project at Goddard Space Flight Center manages
   these responsibilities with Hughes Santa Barbara Remote Sensing
   building the sensor and Lockheed Martin Missiles and Space developing
   the spacecraft. NOAA is responsible for operation and maintenance of
   the satellite and the ground system for the life of the satellite. The
   USGS, on behalf of NOAA, captures, processes, and distributes the data
   and is responsible for maintaining the Landsat 7 data archive.

   MISSION OBJECTIVE:


   [bull.gif]

   To maintain data continuity by providing data that are consistent in
   terms of data acquisition, geometry, spatial resolution, calibration,
   coverage characteristics, and spectral characteristics with previous
   Landsat data.
   [bull.gif]

   To generate and periodically refresh a global archive of substantially
   cloud-free sun-lit land-mass imagery.
   [bull.gif]

   To continue to make Landsat-type data available to U.S. and
   international users at the cost of fulfilling users requests, and
   expand the use of such data for global change and commercial purposes.

   SPACECRAFT SPECIFICATIONS


   Launch Date:               15 April, 1999, Vandenberg AFB, California
   Instrument Name:           Enhanced Thematic Mapper Plus
   Orbit:                     Sun-synchronous, polar
   Orbit Altitude:            705 km +/- 5 km 9 (at equator)
   Orbit Inclination:         98,2 degrees, +/-0.15 degrees
   Orbit Descending Node:     10:00 am local time, +/- 15 min
   Spacecraft Specifications: Weight 4350 lbs;  Size 159 in high; 108 in
                              diameter; Power 1550 watts
   Solar Array:               Silicon cells, four panels, 180 sq. ft. total area
   Repeat coverage interval:  16 days (233 orbits)
   On-board data storage:     ~375 Gb (solid state)
   Mission life:              5 years design life (expandable for 6 years)
   Image:                     Click for an image of the Landsat 7 spacecraft
   Landsat  homepage:         http://landsat.gsfc.nasa.gov
