http://cog.nimh.nih.gov/murray.html

                           Elisabeth A. Murray, Ph.D.


                                       Chief, Section on

                                        Neurobiology of

                                         Learning and

                                            Memory

                                               Dr. Elisabeth Murray

   CAPTION:               Synopsis of Ongoing Work
              Publications



   Memory loss typically accompanies strokes of the anterior communicating
   artery, viral infections of the brain, normal aging, and is a central
   feature of certain diseases such as Alzheimer's disease and AIDs
   dementia complex as well. To understand the mechanisms underlying
   storage of information in the brain we examine the effects of selective
   cerebral ablations and disconnections on different types of memory in
   macaque monkeys.

   The storage of stimulus memories in monkeys is achieved in large part
   by a strip of cortex lying in the ventromedial aspect of the temporal
   lobes. This region is comprised of the entorhinal and perirhinal
   cortex. The perirhinal cortex, in particular, appears to be critical
   for accurate stimulus recognition and stimulus-stimulus association.
   Further, the perirhinal cortex receives information from several
   modality-specific neocortical regions, after processing through a
   series of cortical fields, and mediates stimulus recognition memory in
   at least the visual and somatic sensory (tactual) modalities. This same
   region seems to be responsible for stimulus-stimulus associative
   memories both within sensory modalities (i.e. intramodal associations)
   and across sensory modalities (i.e. crossmodal associations). Moreover,
   the perirhinal cortex can mediate stimulus recognition and association
   memory in the absence of the medial temporal lobe limbic structures,
   the amygdala and hippocampus. It is proposed that the perirhinal cortex
   is a kernel of a memory system specialized for storing knowledge about
   objects, analogous to a semantic memory system in humans.

   Evidence from our own and other labs suggests that the perirhinal
   cortex is critical for "object identification". It is likely that such
   identification is achieved in two main ways: 1) by virtue of the
   information processing capability of perirhinal cortex, which resembles
   that of the remainder of the inferior temporal cortex; and 2) by virtue
   of its pivotal anatomical position, which allows the linking of
   representations stored in diverse sensory and motor areas.
   Stimulus memories can be linked to affective states and reward through
   connections of the inferior temporal cortex, including the perirhinal
   cortex, with the amygdala. Stimulus memories can be linked with
   locations and motor acts through connections of the entorhinal and
   perirhinal cortex with the hippocampal formation.
