http://awma-gws.baaqmd.gov/Students.htm

                               Student Awards


   Home
   Purpose
   History
   GWS Chapters
   Directors
   Calendar
   Membership
   Student Awards
   Newsletters



   Email Us [email.gif]


STUDENT SCHOLARSHIPS & ACTIVITIES

   Scholarships:

   Each year, the Scholarship Committee selects at least one graduate or
   undergraduate student as the recipient of the Golden West Section
   scholarship. In recent years our Section has offered up to $2,000 in
   scholarship funding for the selected finalist(s). The candidates attend
   colleges and universities within the Golden West Section's geographic
   boundaries.

   The Student Scholarship Committee was pleased to announce that two
   students were awarded scholarships for the 2000/2001 academic year.
   They were Laura Anne Wynholds at the University of California, Davis
   and Sarah Middleton at Stanford University.

   Once again, the Golden West Section of AWMA plans to provide two $1,000
   scholarships to students attending colleges or universities in our
   Section's geographic area.
   [acroicon.gif] Information and application forms or in [mswicon.gif] MS
   Word Format

   Other Upcoming Student Activities of the Golden West Section:

   We are pleased to announce that our Annual Student Dinner meeting will
   once again be held this year in the East Bay. A tentative date has been
   set for November 8, 2001. Further information regarding this special
   dinner will be provided soon. Graduate and undergraduate students are
   encouraged to attend.

   The first 50 who respond to our dinner announcement will receive their
   dinner at no cost. Furthermore, the Golden West Section will be
   sponsoring several other breakfast, lunch and dinner meetings
   throughout the 2001/2001 calendar year. Full time student members of
   this Section can attend attend these dinner meetings at half price
   (normally about $10).

   We hope your school year starts out great!

   For more information on the Golden West Section's Student Program, call
   Doug Wolf at (925) 927-6767 or E-mail him at DGWGeofon@aol.com

                                [acdrule.gif]
