http://albany.fbi.gov/contact/fo/alfo/aloffice.htm

     [Albany FO Home Page] - [Albany Contact Info] - [Field Office Home
                             Pages] - [FBI Home]

   Office Hours: Although the FBI operates 24 hours a day, seven
   days-a-week, our normal "walk-in" business hours are from 8:15 a.m. -
   5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. If you need to speak with an FBI
   representative anytime other than normal business hours, you may
   telephone the office at (518) 465-7551.
   Law Enforcement Coordination: The Albany Office of the FBI works
   closely with all local, state and federal officials to further our law
   enforcement mission in Northern New York and Vermont. We also work in
   close cooperation with all Canadian authorities through our Legal
   Attache's Office located in Ottawa.
   FBI's Community Outreach Program: The FBI's Community Outreach Program
   (COP) includes all Adopt-A-School, Junior Special Agent, Mentoring, and
   Tutoring programs, as well as crime, gang, and violence prevention
   efforts. The mission of the FBI's COP is to provide a comprehensive
   effort that deals with multiple interrelated societal problems,
   including crime, drugs, gangs, and violence, in support of our
   investigative mission.  The FBI works in cooperation with other
   Federal, state and local agencies who are striving to provide safer and
   healthier lifestyles for our communities' youth. The FBI realizes that
   if law enforcement is to truly contribute to our nation's fight against
   crime, drugs, gangs and violence, we must formulate partnerships with
   the communities we are sworn to serve and protect.  The FBI does all
   that is possible within its available resources, to provide assistance
   to victims and witnesses of federal violations as outlined in the
   legislation and the Attorney General Guidelines fir Victim and Witness
   Assistance.
   Employment Opportunities:

   Currently the FBI is hiring individuals for the Special Agent (SA)
   position.  SA applicants must have a minimum of a four-year college
   degree along with work experience at the supervisory, managerial or
   administrative level.  The FBI also hires a variety of entry level
   clerical and professional support positions when positions are
   available.

   All applicants must pass written tests, interviews, a polygraph
   examination and a thorough background investigation.  You may request
   an application by contacting our office or, if you reside outside of
   the Albany Division's territory, by contacting your nearest FBI Field
   Office between 8:15 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. To apply
   on-line for specific professional support vacancies at FBI Headquarters
   and in the 56 field offices as well as for information on FBI policies
   and practices, please visit the FBI's Employment Page.
   FBI Speaker:

   You can request a speaker from the FBI for your group or organization
   by writing to the Albany Field Office.

   If available, a Special Agent speaker can be arranged for any topic
   covering any of the FBI's investigative programs. See the Albany
   Contact Information Page for phone numbers and locations.
