http://uness.larc.nasa.gov/issvc97/sar.htm

[tele.gif] 6^th Annual Click here to learn how to see the ISS from Earth!

   SOME ASSEMBLY REQUIRED

   LIVE via Satellite - Click here to find a host site for viewing near
   you

   February 18, 1999 12:30 – 2:00 pm ET

   FREE International Space Station Posters mailed to the first 500 people
   who send in their program evaluations via mail or on-line at: Site
   Coordinator Evaluation or Educator Evaluation
     * Who Should Attend
     * What You'll Learn
     * LIVE in the Studio
     * Participant Resources
     * Just for Kids
     * For the Media


   Give your students an inside look at what it takes to assemble the
   people, the parts and the plan for the world's largest orbiting
   research facility, the International Space Station. Today, flight
   hardware is being manufactured in many countries around the globe and
   soon the elements of ISS will begin to be launched and assembled in
   space. The International Space Station Teleconference will give your
   students the tools in math and science to follow the progress of ISS!

   Assemble your classroom for the Space Station experience!

   Questions? Call 1-888-287-8060

                               [gradblue.gif]


                        Official NASA Home Page WHRO

                National Engieers Week Official ISS Web Site


                               [gradblue.gif]


    Last modified January 16, 1999
    Patrick A. Troutman (p.a.troutman@larc.nasa.gov)
    NASA Langley Research Center





    [gradblue.gif]


   Who Should Attend

   Targeted to middle and high school students, this interactive
   teleconference supports a broad range of educational goals. Students
   will learn about teamwork between international scientists, engineers
   and astronauts as they work to make International Space Station a
   reality. They'll see how science and technology come together as NASA
   experts train for long-duration missions aboard Space Station. They’ll
   also learn how studies in microgravity give us new insight on the human
   body and the world around us.

   Some Assembly Required is designed for:
     * middle and high school students and educators
     * science and technology resource centers
     * libraries
     * museum and science centers

   ISS experts will answer your questions LIVE on the air -- you can email
   your questions in advance!

   [gradblue.gif]


   What You’ll Learn

   Join Some Assembly Required as Space Station experts show you:
     * astronaut training around the world

     * the basics of living and working in space

     * a look inside the ISS modules and how they work

     * current research in microgravity with benefits for life on earth


   Some Assembly Required supports a broad range of educational goals and
   is designed for use in the classroom.

   Use this program to teach about:
     * Collaboration among international scientists, engineers, and
       astronauts
     * Long-duration microgravity research
     * Medical and technological advancements
     * Careers in math, science and engineering


   Email your Questions to the Experts!

   (Selected emails will be answered LIVE on the teleconference)

   [gradblue.gif]


   Live in the Studio

   With a diverse panel of top NASA, university, and other experts, this
   live, interactive, ninety-minute program will put you directly in touch
   with the scientists, engineers and astronauts who are helping to build
   and use ISS.


   [west_phil.jpg] Philip R. West

   Last year Phil West made kids across the country laugh with his quirky
   spacesuit demonstration. Phil has been an engineer of spacewalk gear at
   NASA for over 10 years. Recently, Phil lead the team that designed the
   tools the astronauts will use to assemble and repair the International
   Space Station.



   [kathy_clark.jpg] Kathryn Clark

   Kathryn Clark is the Senior Scientist for the International Space
   Station at NASA Headquarters. As chief scientist, Dr. Clark coordinates
   the International Space Station research communities. She serves on the
   NASA committees responsible for the oversight of the International
   Space Station.




   [delucas_lawrence.jpg] Lawrence J. DeLucas

   Lawrence Delucas is a former astronaut who flew his experiments on a
   1992 Space Shuttle mission. Director of a research center at the
   University of Alabama, Dr. DeLucas performs research with special
   interest in protein crystal growth. Someday this research may help
   treat diseases such as diabetes, AIDS, and cancer.


   [scott.gif] WINSTON SCOTT

   Winston Scott is a NASA astronaut who has spent a total of 24 days in
   space. In 1996, Mr. Scott served as a mission specialist, conducting
   spacewalks to demonstrate and evaluate techniques for assembly of the
   International Space Station. In 1997, he was part of the fourth U.S.
   Microgravity Payload flight, testing tools and procedures for future
   Space Station assembly.


   Marc A. Shepanek

   is a Program Scientist in NASA’s Office of Life and Microgravity
   Science. Mr. Shepanek’s research focuses on the behavior and
   performance of astronauts during long flight missions. He recently
   returned from the Antarctic, where he studied the psychological effects
   of adverse living conditions, similar to what the astronauts may
   experience on Space Station.
