http://www.sba.gov/fair/

           SBA Federal Activities Inventory Reform Act (FAIR Act)

                             Man holding Barbell

                     Small Business Administration Logo
    SBA Commercial Activities Inventory
       Complete Data
       The 2001 SBA Commercial Activities Inventory is available for
       download as an Adobe PDF file. The format for the provided data is
       in accordance with guidance from the Office of Management and
       Budget (OMB).
       SBA 2001 Commercial Activities Inventory

   See Viewing Utilities
       OMB
       provides a standard set of activity/function codes for agencies to
       use in categorizing their commercial activities. The Year 2001 SBA
       inventory uses the set of codes OMB published in the Year 2001
       Inventory of Commercial Activities - Memorandum to Heads of
       Executive Departments and Agencies, dated April 3, 2001.

       Challenges and Appeals
       Interested parties may challenge an agency's decision to include or
       exclude a particular activity from the Commercial Activities
       Inventory. They may subsequently appeal the agency's decision on
       the challenge.
       If you wish to submit an official challenge of the contents of the
       SBA Commercial Activities Inventory or an appeal of a
       rejected/denied challenge, please review the information provided
       below and send the challenge in writing to the designated SBA
       Federal Activities Inventory Reform Act (FAIR Act)
       Point-of-Contact:
       Mr. Thomas Dumaresq
       U.S. Small Business Administration
       409 3^rd Street, SW
       Suite 5200
       Washington, DC 20416
       202-205-6610 (Phone)
       202-205-7693 (Fax)

       SBA Procedures for Challenges
       To be considered valid, a challenge must meet all of the
       requirements in paragraphs 1-8 below. Challenges that do not meet
       all of these requirements will be rejected.
         1. The challenge must be in writing. Telephone calls, verbal
            inquiries, voice mail and electronic mail are not acceptable
            and will be rejected.
         2. The challenge must be sent by U. S. mail, express delivery or
            similar service, or facsimile transmission to the designated
            SBA official (see above). To assist in processing, challengers
            may mark "FAIR Challenge" on the envelope.
         3. The challenge must be submitted to the designated SBA FAIR Act
            Point-of-Contact within 30 working days of the SBAs inventory
            being made available to the public. Challenges to the 2001 SBA
            inventory must be submitted by January 9, 2002.
         4. The person or organization making the challenge must be an
            interested party. Interested parties are defined in the FAIR
            Act of 1998 as:
         a. A private-sector source that -
         1. is an actual or prospective offeror for a contract, or other
            form of agreement, to perform the activity; and
         2. has a direct economic interest in performing the activity that
            would be adversely affected by a determination not to procure
            the performance of the activity from a private-sector source.
     * A representative of any business or professional association that
       includes within its membership private-sector sources referred to
       in a. above.
     * An officer or employee of an organization within an executive
       agency that is an actual or prospective offeror to perform that
       activity.
     * The head of any labor organization referred to in section
       7103(a)(4) of title 5, U. S. Code, that includes within its
       membership officers or employees of an organization referred to in
       c. above.

     The challenger must explain why the challenger qualifies as an
   "interested party" in the challenge letter.

     The challenge must identify the activity being challenged as
   specifically as possible; that is, it must give a sufficient
   description of the activity being challenged so SBA can identify it.
   For example, the challenger may reference the inventory entry for
   challenges to activities included on the inventory, or provide
   activity, function, organization, location, state, or other identifying
   information for challenges to activities that were excluded from the
   inventory.

     The challenge must state whether the challenger is challenging the
   decision to include the activity on the SBA Commercial Activities
   Inventory as a commercial activity or the decision to exclude the
   activity from the inventory as an "inherently governmental function."
   Only the decision to include or to exclude a particular activity from
   the inventory is subject to challenge. Attempts to challenge other
   items on the inventory or other decisions related to the inventory will
   be rejected.

     The challenge must set forth the reasons for the interested party's
   belief that the particular activity should be reclassified as
   inherently governmental (and therefore be deleted from the inventory)
   or as commercial (and therefore be added to the inventory) in
   accordance with OFPP Policy Letter 92-1.

   The challenge must include the name of the challenger and the address
   to which the decision on the challenge should be sent.

                        SBA Procedures for Decisions

    1. A decision on a challenge will be made within 28 working days from
       the date that the designated SBA office actually receives the
       challenge.
    2. The decision will be in writing and will -

    a. Identify the activity and the omission/inclusion being challenged;
    b. State whether the challenge is rejected on procedural grounds, or
       upheld or denied;
    c. Explain the rationale for the decision; and
    d. Provide an explanation of the challenger's appeal rights, if the
       challenge is rejected or denied.

     The decision to reject, uphold, or deny a challenge will be made by a
   responsible official at the SBA.

     Decisions will be transmitted to challengers by U. S. mail or
   facsimile transmission.

                         SBA Procedures for Appeals

    1. The specific procedures for submitting an appeal to a decision on a
       challenge that is rejected or denied will be/provided to the
       challenger in the decision letter.
    2. Appeals must be in writing. Telephone calls, verbal inquiries,
       voice mail, and electronic mail are not acceptable and will be
       rejected. The appeal must be sent by U.S. mail, express delivery or
       similar service, or facsimile transmission to the designated SBA
       FAIR Act Point-of-Contact (see above). To assist in processing,
       challengers may mark "FAIR Appeal" on the envelope. Appeals must be
       submitted to the designated office within 10 working days after the
       challenger receives the decision denying or rejecting the
       challenge. Decisions on appeals will be in writing and will include
       the determination and the rationale for the decision.

                                    Links

    1. FAIR Act: Federal Activities Inventory Reform Act of 1998 (Public
       Law 105-270).
    2. Year 2001 Inventory of Commercial Activities - Memorandum to Heads
       of Executive Departments and Agencies: Includes reporting
       instructions, definitions and function/activity and reason codes
       revised for 2000/2001.
    3. OMB Circular A-76: Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular
       A-76, "Performance of Commercial Activities" (Revised) establishes
       federal policy regarding the performance of commercial activities
       and implements the statutory requirements of the Federal Activities
       Inventory Reform Act of 1998, Public Law 105-270.
    4. OMB Circular A76 Supplemental Handbook: Office of Federal
       Procurement (OFPP) Policy Letter 92-1 provides guidance to
       Executive Departments and agencies on (1) what functions are
       inherently governmental functions that must be performed only by
       government officers or employees and (2) what contractible
       functions so closely support governmental officers and employees in
       their performance of inherently governmental functions that the
       terms and performance of those functions by contractors require
       close scrutiny from government officers.
    5. Federal Register Sept. 26, 2001 (66 FR 49219):: Public Availability
       of Year 2001 Agency Inventories Under the Federal Activities
       Inventory Reform Act of 1998.
    6. OMB Fair Act guidance: Office of Management and Budget (OMB) FAIR
       Act Inventory Users Guide.

   *Last Modified: 1-7-02
