http://discovery.nasa.gov/education.html

                  Discovery Outreach Educational Resources
   Discovery Program Education and Outreach
   The Discovery Program offers the scientific community opportunities to
   accomplish high quality investigations that assure the highest science
   value for the cost. The program's prime objective is to enhance our
   understanding of the solar system by exploring the planets, their moons
   and other small bodies within our solar system.
   Spreading the Word and Sharing the Knowledge
   Another important objective of the Discovery Program is to enhance
   public awareness of space exploration and to incorporate educational
   activities into planetary science investigations. The goal is to
   inspire America's students, enlighten inquisitive minds and communicate
   the excitement of NASA's missions. In recent years this effort has been
   expanded from mainly supporting graduate and post-graduate education to
   include special emphasis on pre-college education. Another significant
   goal is to meet the needs of educators by cultivating strong
   partnerships between the space science community and those responsible
   for science, math, and technology education.
   The Wonder of the Internet
   The same technological innovations that make possible smaller, cheaper
   yet more efficient spacecraft also enable the public - young and old
   alike - to participate in these missions as never before, interacting
   with frontline researchers via the Internet and sharing the excitement
   of learning new things.
   Discovery Mission Education and Public Outreach Plans
   Each Discovery mission includes a plan for bringing space science to
   the public, including arranging for appropriate educational partners.
   Click on the icon below to go directly to the Education pages for each
   mission:

   Go to NEAR Education Page NEAR Education Page Go to Prospector Page
   Lunar Prospector Education Page
   Go to Pathfinder Education Page Mars Pathfinder Education Page Go to
   Stardust Education Page Stardust Education Page
   Go to Genesis Education Page Genesis Education Page Go to Deep Impact
   Education Page Deep Impact Education Page
   Go to CONTOUR Education Page CONTOUR Education Page
   Go to MESSENGER Education Page MESSENGER Education Page
   See the following page for more interesting Space Exploration sites.

   Home | Program | Missions | News | Get Involved | Education | Resources
   | Site Map

   Go to NASA Headquarters Send your feedback to the Curator, Shari
   Asplund.
   Site design by Jayne Dutra, JPL. Additional support provided by Kelly
   Winters.
   Last updated 12/7/00.
   USA Flag
