http://www.courtinfo.ca.gov/rules/reports/documents/ruleform05.pdf

   JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE OF THE COURTS 455
   Golden Gate Avenue San Francisco, California 94102-3660 Report Summary
   TO: Members of the Judicial Council FROM: Civil and Small Claims
   Advisory Committee Hon. Douglas P. Miller, Chair Case Management
   Subcommittee, Hon. Arthur E. Wallace, Chair Patrick O'Donnell,
   Committee Counsel, 415-865-7665, patrick.o'donnell@jud.ca.gov DATE:
   December 7, 2001 SUBJECT: Case Management (repeal Cal. Rules of Court,
   rules 209211, 215 221, 223, 224, 1590, 1590.2, and 1590.3; amend and
   renumber rules 208, 982.2, 1590.1, and 21012106; amend rules 212, 213,
   222, 225, 226, 298, and 1580; adopt rules 201.7, 204.1, and 214; adopt
   form CM-110; and revoke form CM-100) (Action Required) Issue Statement
   The California Rules of Court relating to civil case management should
   be amended to reflect modern case management practices. Some existing
   rules predate the Trial Court Delay Reduction Act; others reflect early
   practices under the Act. An integrated, up-to-date set of civil case
   management rules applicable to all trial courts would promote the use
   of best practices and greatly simplify court procedures. These amended
   rules would especially assist attorneys who practice in several
   counties and who currently must comply with local case management rules
   and practices that vary widely. All litigants, the courts, and the
   public will benefit from the improved rules. Trial courts presently
   require litigants to file a wide variety of local forms for case
   management conferences, status conferences, trial setting conferences,
   and other similar events. A standard case management statement form for
   use by all the courts of this state for civil case management review
   would be of great assistance to litigants and the courts in
   implementing the case management rules. Recommendation The Civil and
   Small Claims Advisory Committee recommends that the Judicial Council,
   effective July 1, 2002: 1. Repeal rules 209, 210, 211, 215, 216, 217,
   218, 219, 220, 221, 223, 224, 1590, 1590.2, and 1590.3 of the
   California Rules of Court; 2. Amend rules 982.2, 1590.1, 208, 2101,
   2102, 2103, 2104, 2105, and 2106 and renumber them as rules 201.8,
   201.9, 204.2, 205, 206, 207, 208, 209, and 210, respectively; 3. Amend
   rules 212, 213, 222, 225, 226, 298, and 1580; 4. Adopt rules 201.7,
   204.1, and 214; 5. Adopt Case Management Statement (form CM-110); and
   6. Revoke Notice of Case Management (form CM-100). The text of the case
   management rules is attached to the report at pages 1639; new form
   CM-110 is attached to the report at pages 4043; and revoked form CM-100
   is attached to the report at page 44. Rationale for Recommendation Case
   Management Rules The new and amended rules are intended to result in a
   comprehensive set of rules on civil case management applicable to all
   the trial courts in the state. The current obsolete rules on case
   management will be eliminated. More importantly, the revised rules will
   provide simplified case management procedures for all courts and
   practitioners, establish greater uniformity of civil practice, promote
   good case management, and reduce the costs of litigation. A detailed
   description of the new and amended rules is contained on pages 38 of
   the report. Case Management Forms To implement the new case management
   rules, a new standardized case management statement should be adopted
   and an obsolete notice form should be revoked. * The Case Management
   Statement (form CM-110) is intended to be used in all general civil
   cases that are subject to case management review. Parties must
   complete, file, and serve this form to comply with the requirements of
   rule 212. This form is mandatory. It will be used statewide and will
   replace all existing local case management statements and other similar
   forms. The Case Management Statement may be submitted jointly if the
   parties choose, but joint submission is not required. 2 * The Notice of
   Case Management Conference (form CM-100) was approved effective January
   1, 1995. It is rarely used, is not consistent with the new rules, and
   should be revoked. To implement the new rules, courts should develop
   their own case management conference notices or modify their existing
   notices, consistent with rule 212. Alternative Actions Considered In
   the course of reviewing and revising the case management rules, the
   committee considered a number of alternatives. One issue to which the
   committee particularly devoted attention was whether there should be an
   exemption from the case management rules for limited civil cases. The
   committee recommends against creating a blanket exemption for such
   cases for the reasons explained in the report. However, it does
   recommend that the rules allow courts by local rule to provide that
   counsel and self-represented parties are not to attend a case
   management conference in limited civil cases, unless ordered to do so
   by the court. The committee also considered whether parties should be
   required to jointly prepare and file the Case Management Statement
   (form CM-110). It recommends that parties be given the option to file
   the form either separately or jointly. Other alternatives considered by
   the committee are discussed in the comment chart attached to the
   report. Comments From Interested Parties The proposed case management
   rules and Case Management Statement were circulated for comment in
   spring 2001. The commentators included judges, commissioners, courts, a
   court rules committee, the Trial Court Presiding Judges Advisory
   Committee, court administrators, staff attorneys, private attorneys,
   the president of a local bar association, and the Consumer Attorneys of
   California. A total of 28 comments were received on the proposals. Most
   commentators agreed generally with the proposals, but suggested
   particular amendments to the rules or modifications to the Case
   Management Statement form. A few commentators objected to specific
   rules or portions of rules. Three commentators agreed with the
   proposals without offering specific comments. The most significant set
   of comments involved proposals to expand the list of exemptions from
   the case management rules.1 In particular, there were several proposals
   to allow courts by local rule to exempt all limited civil cases from
   the case management rules. The committee recommends against providing a
   broad exemption for limited civil cases or allowing courts to provide
   by local rule for 1 Rule 212(a) already provides exemptions for a
   number of categories of cases, including complex cases, unlawful
   detainer proceedings, and uninsured motorist claims. 3 categorical
   exemptions from the case management rules for a number of reasons.
   Uniform statewide rules of procedure have been an important goal of the
   Judicial Council and the Legislature. Adopting uniform rules in the
   area of case management will be a major step toward simplifying civil
   practice, reducing costs, and promoting access to the courts. It would
   be contrary to these policies to allow each court on a county-by-county
   basis to determine if it wanted to exempt limited cases or other
   categories of cases. Also, the Legislature has intended that limited
   cases be managed. Although the committee recommends against providing a
   broad exemption from the new case management rules for limited civil
   cases, it supports a more limited modification to the case management
   rules that will allow courts by local rule to provide that counsel and
   self-represented parties are not to attend case management conferences
   in limited civil cases, unless ordered to do so by the court. This
   modification is contained in rule 212(b)(3), which was added to the
   rules after discussions with the council's Rules and Projects Committee
   and some trial courts. The exception is provided so courts that are
   experiencing an exceptionally large volume of limited civil cases can
   manage these within their resources. This exception relating to the
   holding of conferences is not inconsistent with basic case management
   principles. Most courts will probably not adopt local rules that make
   the exception for limited civil cases applicable in their counties. But
   in those counties where the courts do adopt such an exception, the
   parties will still be required to submit case management statements;
   the courts will still review all applicable civil cases, including
   limited civil cases; and the courts will still issue case management
   orders for those cases. A detailed statement of the public comments on
   the rules and forms and the committee's responses is contained in the
   chart attached to the report at pages 45 85. Implementation
   Requirements and Costs The implementation of the new case management
   procedures will require time, commitment, and effort from the trial
   courts. Judicial officers and court personnel will need to become
   familiar with these procedures. For these reasons, the committee
   recommends that the effective date of the new procedures be July 1,
   2002. The new procedures will require greater adjustments and changes
   in some courts than in others. Costs will be involved in modifying
   procedures and training people. But, in the end, the impact of the
   modernized rules should be to significantly improve case management in
   all the courts of this state and to further reduce trial court delay.
   Thus, the changes should ultimately benefit litigants, the courts, and
   the public. 4 JUDICIAL COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE OF
   THE COURTS 455 Golden Gate Avenue San Francisco, California 94102-3660
   Report TO: Members of the Judicial Council FROM: Civil and Small Claims
   Advisory Committee Hon. Douglas P. Miller, Chair Case Management
   Subcommittee, Hon. Arthur E. Wallace, Chair Patrick O'Donnell,
   Committee Counsel, 415-865-7665, patrick.o'donnell@jud.ca.gov DATE:
   December 7, 2001 SUBJECT: Case Management (repeal Cal. Rules of Court,
   Rules 209211, 215 221, 223, 224, 1590, 1590.2, and 1590.3; amend and
   renumber rules 208, 982.2, 1590.1, and 21012106; amend rules 212, 213,
   222, 225, 226, 298, and 1580; adopt rules 201.7, 204.1, and 214; adopt
   form CM-110; and revoke form CM-100) (Action Required) Issue Statement
   The California Rules of Court relating to civil case management should
   be amended to reflect modern case management practices. Some existing
   rules predate the Trial Court Delay Reduction Act; others reflect early
   practices under the Act. An integrated, up-to-date set of civil case
   management rules applicable to all trial courts would promote the use
   of best practices and greatly simplify court procedures. These amended
   rules would especially assist attorneys who practice in several
   counties and who currently must comply with local case management rules
   and practices that vary widely. All litigants, the courts, and the
   public will benefit from the improved rules. Trial courts presently
   require litigants to file a wide variety of local forms for case
   management conferences, status conferences, trial setting conferences,
   and other similar events. A standard case management statement form for
   use by all the courts of this state for civil case management review
   would be of great assistance to litigants and the courts in
   implementing the case management rules. Background In 1986, the
   Legislature passed the Trial Delay Reduction Act. The Judicial Council
   recognized in its 1988 Annual Report that "the act embodies a
   fundamental shift in California's case management policy and relegates
   responsibility to the judiciary for supervising the pace of
   litigation."1 The Legislature codified the responsibilities of the
   judiciary for case management in 1990 by enacting Government Code
   section 68607. That statute provides that "judges shall have the
   responsibility to eliminate delay in the progress and ultimate
   resolution of litigation, to assume and maintain control over the pace
   of litigation, to actively manage the processing of litigation from
   commencement to disposition, and to compel attorneys and litigants to
   prepare and resolve all litigation without delay, from the filing of
   the first document invoking court jurisdiction to final disposition of
   the action." Under the leadership and direction of the Judicial
   Council, the trial courts have made substantial progress on case
   management. On the 10th anniversary of the Trial Court Delay Reduction
   Act, a council report stated: "Tremendous strides have been made by the
   courts in reducing the age of their caseloads and in meeting the case
   disposition standards adopted by the council....These accomplishments
   are possible only through leadership, commitment to delay reduction,
   and lots of hard work. The trial courts are to be commended for their
   achievements to date."2 During the past five years, the trial courts
   have continued to make progress in the area of trial delay reduction.
   Whereas in 19951996, 52 percent of all general civil unlimited cases
   were disposed of within 12 months, in 19992000, 60 percent were
   disposed of in that time. In that same time span, the percentage of
   limited civil cases disposed of within 12 months rose from 78 to 82
   percent. 3 But the process of improving case management is ongoing. The
   California Standards of Judicial Administration set a goal that each
   court should dispose of 90 percent of general civil cases within 12
   months from filing. (Cal. Standards Jud. Admin., §§ 2.1 and 2.3.) To
   approach this goal, the trial courts will need to continue to improve
   their case management practices. In 1999, the Civil and Small Claims
   Advisory Committee embarked upon a comprehensive review of civil case
   management rules and procedures. For the past two years, the committee
   and its Case Management Subcommittee have pursued this task. Based on
   its review of the rules on civil case management, the committee has 1
   Judicial Council of California, 1988 Annual Report, p. 13. 2 Judicial
   Council of California, Civil Trial Court Delay Reduction: How Are We
   Doing? (August 9, 1996), p. 3. 3 Judicial Council of California, 2001
   Annual Report, Court Statistics Report, Civil Case Processing Time, p.
   48. 2 concluded that a major revision of the rules is appropriate. The
   amendment of the rules is necessary to eliminate obsolete provisions
   and, more importantly, to establish a uniform set of rules that will
   reflect the best case management practices. This report discusses the
   committee's rules proposals, its standard case management form, the
   public's comments on the rules and form, and the committee's
   recommendations. The Rules and Forms Case Management Rules The
   revisions of the rules are intended to result in a comprehensive set of
   rules on civil case management applicable to all the trial courts in
   the state. Obsolete rules will be eliminated. More importantly, the new
   and amended rules will provide simplified procedures for all courts and
   practitioners, establish greater uniformity of civil practice, promote
   good case management, and reduce the costs of litigation. The main
   changes in the case management rules are as follows: * New rule 201.7
   prescribes the time for service of pleadings. The rule also requires
   that, if a responsive pleading is not timely served, the plaintiff must
   request the entry of default and obtain a default judgment. Many trial
   courts already have local rules on these subjects. (See Judges
   Benchbook: Civil Proceedings Before Trial (CJER 1995) §§ 2.242.27.) The
   adoption of rule 201.7 will result in greater certainty and
   predictability in the timing of service of pleadings. The rule will
   also serve as the foundation for good case management by providing a
   uniform set of times by which the filing and service of pleadings must
   be completed and the entry of defaults sought. The time deadlines
   provided for in the rule are meant to be reasonable and practical, and
   at the same time ensure that civil cases are diligently prosecuted. *
   New rule 201.8 is based on current rule 982.2.4 This rule, which
   concerns the filing of a Civil Case Cover Sheet, is more logically
   placed with the other rules in Title Two on filing and service. Hence,
   it has been relocated. * New rule 201.9 is based on current rule
   1590.1. It requires the plaintiff to serve court-provided Alternative
   Dispute Resolution (ADR) information on each defendant along with the
   complaint. It has been relocated to Title Two because it is more
   logical for this rule to be with the rules on the service of pleadings.
   4 The version of rule 982.2 that will become effective January 1, 2002
   is being amended and relocated. 3 * Rules 204.1 and 204.2 concern the
   duties of the court to manage civil cases. Rule 204.1, based on current
   rule 224, provides that each court must adopt a case management and
   calendaring system for general civil cases that will advance the goals
   in section 2 of the California Standards of Judicial Administration.
   Rule 204.2, based on current rule 208, prescribes the internal
   procedures for managing civil cases to be adopted by each trial court.
   * New rules 205210 are based on current rules 21012106 concerning
   differential case management. Because of the location of the current
   rules, they are sometimes overlooked. By renumbering them as rules
   205210, these rules will be placed together with the other case
   management rules in Title Two. The definition of "general civil case"
   in rule 207(b) applies to all the civil case management rules. The
   definition has been amended to exclude small claims and unlawful
   detainer proceedings. Rule 209 is based on former rule 2105. This rule
   was adopted in 1991 as part of the rules on differential case
   management. Two aspects of this existing rule warrant special comment.
   First, rule 209(d) provides that the court, in the interest of justice,
   may exempt a general civil case from the case disposition time goals if
   it finds that the case involves "exceptional circumstances that will
   prevent the court and the parties from meeting the goals and deadlines
   imposed by the [trial delay reduction] program." In making this
   determination, the court is guided by rules 210 and 1800. Rule 209(d)
   is intended to permit courts to exempt complex cases or other similar
   exceptionally time-consuming cases from the time disposition goals. The
   exemptions granted under rule 209(d) are not intended to result in
   exempted cases being left unmanaged. Rule 209(d) expressly states that,
   "[i]f the court exempts the case from the case disposition time goals,
   the court must establish a case progression plan and monitor the case
   to ensure timely disposition consistent with the exceptional
   circumstances, with the goal of disposing of the case within three
   years" (emphasis added). Second, rule 209(e) deals with the opposite
   situation from that addressed by rule 209(d), that is, the possible
   need for special treatment of simple cases that may be disposed of more
   promptly than ordinary civil cases. Rule 209(e) does not provide an
   express exemption from the delay reduction rules, but it permits courts
   by local rule to adopt a case management plan that establishes a goal
   for disposing of appropriate cases within six to nine months after
   filing. This plan must establish a procedure to identify the cases
   assigned to the plan. 4 The expedited case management procedures
   authorized under rule 209(e) are intended only for "uncomplicated cases
   that need little judicial involvement to guide the cases to early
   resolution."5 The Judicial Council Report on rule 2105(e) (on which
   rule 209(e) is based) provides as examples of rules appropriately
   providing for expedited treatment certain existing or proposed local
   rules on collections cases, under which the goal was to have the matter
   completed within 150 days (Orange County) or the cases were placed on a
   dismissal docket 180 days after filing unless specified actions were
   taken (San Bernardino County).6 Thus, the rule was not intended to
   provide a blanket exemption from case management (for example, for all
   limited civil cases), but rather to authorize courts to adopt a plan
   for the expedited treatment of certain uncomplicated cases. Most courts
   have not adopted local case management plans under this provision. But
   the rule is retained so that courts will have the option of adopting a
   plan for the expedited disposition of appropriate simpler cases. *
   Current rules 209 and 210, which are obsolete, are repealed. They apply
   to cases "not subject to the Trial Delay Reduction Act." The Act today
   applies to all general civil cases except those expressly exempted.
   These two rules also refer to civil cases being "at issue" or on a
   "civil active list." This terminology and its underlying assumptions
   are inconsistent with modern case management principles under which the
   courts have the main responsibility for managing cases and ensuring
   their timely disposition. * Current rule 211, on the arbitration status
   conference, is repealed, with its main features incorporated into
   amended rule 212. These changes reflect that, in practice, courts
   generally do not hold separate arbitration status conferences, but
   instead deal with the assignment of cases to judicial arbitration as
   part of the case management process. * Amended rule 212 is the
   principal rule on case management. Under current rule 212, case
   management conferences are required only where authorized by local
   rule. Presently, some courts hold conferences; others do not. The
   amended rule requires case management review of all general civil
   cases, except for certain types of cases expressly exempted. Under the
   amended rule, the case management review of each case must take place
   within 180 days after the filing of the initial complaint. (Rule
   212(a).) The amended rule also requires that the court hold a case
   management conference in all applicable cases, unless the court
   concludes that such a 5 Judicial Council of California, Report on
   Differential Case Management Rules (May 7, 1991), p. 9. 6 Id., p. 10. 5
   conference is not necessary. If the court determines that a conference
   is not required, based on the written submissions of the parties and
   other available information, it may issue a case management order and
   notify the parties that no appearance is necessary. (Rule 212(b)(2).)
   Also, by local rule, a court may provide that counsel and
   self-represented parties are not to attend a case management conference
   in limited civil cases, unless ordered to do so by the court. (Rule
   212(b)(3).) But in limited civil cases in which parties or counsel are
   exempted from attendance at conferences under rule 212(b)(3), the
   parties must still submit case management statements 15 days before the
   conference or review date. These statements must be reviewed by the
   court, and the court must issue a case management order. Amended rule
   212 provides a list of the subjects to be considered at case management
   conferences or review. This list includes such matters as whether all
   parties have been served, whether the case should be referred to
   arbitration or other ADR, whether a jury trial has been demanded, and
   the setting of dates for trial, a mandatory settlement conference, or a
   final case management conference. (Rule 212(e).) The rule requires that
   these matters be discussed in the Case Management Statement (form
   CM-110) and provides that they may be the subjects of the case
   management order. (Rule 212(g) and (i).) The proposed rule permits the
   Case Management Statement to be submitted jointly, but does not require
   it. (Rule 212(g)(2).) The provision in current rule 212, under which
   the parties are required to meet and confer about the matters to be
   discussed in the Case Management Statement no later than 30 days before
   the conference date, is retained. (Rule 212(f).) However, under amended
   rule 212, the statement must be filed at least 15 calendar days before
   that date rather than at least 5 days before, as currently provided.
   The reason for the longer time is to allow courts sufficient time to
   review the Case Management Statements to determine whether a conference
   should be held or an order issued without requiring the appearance of
   the parties. While some courts may not need so much time, others may
   require the full 15 days to review all of the statements submitted.
   Also, because of the additional time that may be necessary to serve by
   mail parties or their counsel with written notices not to appear, the
   longer time period is appropriate as a statewide deadline for the
   filing of statements. If the parties agree to use an ADR process, they
   must jointly complete the ADR stipulation form provided for under rule
   201.9 and file it with the court. (Rule 212(h).) This provision is
   based on current rule 1590.3, which is incorporated into rule 212. 6
   Finally, amended rule 212 provides that the case management order
   controls the subsequent course of the action or proceeding unless it is
   modified by a subsequent order. (Rule 212(j).) The case management
   order will operate to notify all parties of the basic schedule of
   pretrial events. * New rule 214 concerns the management of short cause
   cases, that is, cases in which the time estimated for trial is five
   hours or less. The rule derives from current rule 216, but substitutes
   a contemporary case management approach for the older "at issue"
   approach. The rule provides that a court may order, on the stipulation
   of all parties or its own motion, that a case is a short cause case
   exempted from the requirements of case management review and set the
   case for trial. The provision that, if the case is exempted, it is to
   be set for trial is included to ensure that all such cases remain
   subject to case management. For the same reason, the rule provides
   that, in the event of a mistrial, the case must be promptly set for a
   new trial or for a case management conference. * Current rule 215,
   which provides that every case shall proceed to trial on the date set
   or, if necessary, within the next four court days, is repealed. This
   rule predates the Trial Delay Reduction Act. The rule is no longer
   necessary since courts should be actively managing cases, and it unduly
   restricts the flexibility of trial judges to set cases for trial. *
   Current rules 216221 on trial setting are repealed. Because these rules
   apply only to cases "not subject to the Trial Delay Reduction Act,"
   they are obsolete. The main features of the trial setting rules have
   been included in the new and amended case management rules. Under these
   rules, trial setting is to be performed as an integral part of the case
   management process. * Rule 225 is amended to specifically provide that
   the plaintiff must notify not only the court and any arbitrator, but
   also any other court-connected ADR neutral, that a case has settled or
   otherwise been disposed of. * The rules on Alternative Dispute
   Resolution are modified to be consistent with the new and amended case
   management rules. Specifically, rule 1580 is amended to contain the
   same definition of "general civil case" as rule 207. Rule 1590.1 is
   amended and renumbered as rule 201.9. Rule 1590.2 is repealed because,
   once amended rule 212 becomes effective, this rule will be obsolete.
   Rule 1590.3 is repealed, with its substantive provisions incorporated
   in rule 212(h). Finally, rule 1590 is repealed because it is no longer
   necessary after the other rule changes are made. 7 * All the case
   management rules are modified to reflect the contemporary style and
   usage in the California Rules of Court, including the use of "must"
   rather than "shall." Case Management Forms To implement the new case
   management rules, a new standardized case management statement should
   be adopted and an obsolete notice form should be revoked. * The Case
   Management Statement (form CM-110) is intended to be used in all
   general civil cases that are subject to case management review. Parties
   must complete, file, and serve this form to comply with the
   requirements of rule 212. This form is mandatory. It will be used
   statewide and will replace all existing local case management
   statements and other similar forms. The Case Management Statement may
   be submitted jointly if the parties choose, but joint submission is not
   required. * The Notice of Case Management Conference (form CM-100) was
   approved effective January 1, 1995. It is rarely used, is not
   consistent with the new rules, and should be revoked. To implement the
   new rules, courts should develop their own case management conference
   notices or modify their existing notices, consistent with rule 212.
   Alternative Actions Considered In the course of reviewing and revising
   the case management rules, the committee considered a number of
   alternatives. One issue to which the committee particularly devoted
   attention was whether there should be an exemption from the case
   management rules for limited civil cases. For the reasons discussed in
   the next section, the committee recommends against creating a blanket
   exemption for such cases. However, it does recommend that the rules
   allow courts by local rule to provide that counsel and self-represented
   parties are not to attend a case management conference in limited civil
   cases, unless ordered to do so by the court. The committee also
   considered whether parties should be required to jointly prepare and
   file the Case Management Statement (form CM-110). For the reasons
   explained below, it recommends that parties be given the option to file
   the form either separately or jointly. Other alternatives considered by
   the committee are discussed later in this memorandum and in the
   attached comment chart. 8 Comments From Interested Parties The proposed
   case management rules and Case Management Statement were circulated for
   comment in spring 2001. The commentators included judges,
   commissioners, courts, a court rules committee, the Trial Court
   Presiding Judges Advisory Committee, court administrators, staff
   attorneys, private attorneys, the president of a local bar association,
   and the Consumer Attorneys of California. A total of 28 comments were
   received on the proposals. Most commentators agreed generally with the
   proposals, but suggested particular amendments to the rules or
   modifications to the Case Management Statement form. A few commentators
   objected to specific rules or portions of rules. Three commentators
   agreed with the proposals without offering specific comments.
   Descriptions of the main comments on the rules and forms follow.7
   Comments on the Rules Rule 201.7 on Service of Pleadings Seven comments
   were received on new rule 201.7, which establishes uniform times for
   the service of pleadings and requires that defaults be entered if
   responsive pleadings are not timely served. Although many courts have
   adopted local rules on these matters, there is no statewide rule. Two
   judges commented: "This rule will help the trial courts ensure that
   parties are served in a timely manner and defaults and default
   judgments are promptly entered." The committee agreed with this
   comment. The main objections to rule 201.7 were from attorneys
   concerned about the time limits imposed by the rule. For instance, one
   commentator proposed that the time for service of the complaint under
   rule 201.7(b) be 60 days to serve and 90 days to file a proof of
   service. This would add 30 days to the time for filing the proof of
   service required under the rule. Another commentator stated that rule
   201.7's requirement that a party serve and file a proof of service
   within 60 days is "completely unrealistic." He proposed that the time
   to file and serve be at least 180 days. The committee disagreed with
   these suggestions. Based on the experience of the courts, the committee
   concluded that the proposed times for service and filing of proofs of
   service are realistic and will promote good case management. In courts
   that have similar local rules, litigants have successfully complied
   with these requirements. On the other hand, the longer times proposed
   by the commentators would result in unnecessary delays in the
   processing of civil cases. 7 A detailed statement of the comments and
   the committee's responses are contained in the chart attached at pages
   4585. 9 Two attorneys expressed concern about the requirement in rule
   201.7(g) that, if a responsive pleading is not timely served, the
   plaintiff must file a request for entry of default within 10 days after
   the time for service has elapsed. One commentator stated that the time
   frame was totally unrealistic. Another described the 10-day rule as
   "unrealistically short." Again, the committee disagreed. Based on its
   experience, the 10-day period time for requesting entry of default is
   realistic and practical. Providing a longer time for requesting entry
   of a default would result in unnecessary delay in the prosecution of
   civil cases. Rule 201.9 on Service of Information about Alternative
   Dispute Resolution Rule 201.9 requires that the court make available to
   plaintiffs at the time of filing a package of ADR information. A court
   proposed that the rule be modified to indicate that a court may make
   the ADR information package available to litigants on the court's Web
   site. The committee agreed with this suggestion, but was concerned
   because some litigants do not have access to the Internet. It felt that
   courts should also be required to make hard copies of the ADR
   information available upon request. To achieve these objectives, the
   committee modified rule 201.9 to include subdivision (b), which states:
   "A court may make the ADR information package available on its Web site
   as long as paper copies are also made available in the clerk's office."
   Rules on Case Management Rule 212 is the principal rule on case
   management. By far the most comments submitted concerned this rule.
   Although most commentators supported rule 212, some opposed it or at
   least certain features of it. The main concerns raised by the
   commentators were that (1) the rule needed to be modified to
   accommodate courts with master calendar systems; (2) certain categories
   of cases-particularly limited cases-should be exempted entirely from
   the case management rules; and (3) the rule would require case
   management conferences in all cases and therefore be unduly burdensome.
   The committee discussed at some length the view that the case
   management rules need to be modified to accommodate a master calendar
   system. Based on the experience of its members, it concluded that the
   case management rules as proposed are workable in master calendar
   systems as well as independent calendaring systems. The rules are
   designed to apply to both systems. There is nothing inherent in the
   rules that precludes their application in courts operating under a
   master calendar system. The committee also considered the proposals of
   several commentators to expand the list of exemptions from the case
   management rules beyond the types of cases already exempt under the
   rules. The most significant proposals were those suggesting that 10
   courts be allowed by local rule to exempt categories of cases (for
   example, all limited civil cases) from the case management rules.
   Variants of this proposal recommended that courts be allowed to
   determine by local rule whether case management conferences should be
   dispensed with or the filing of case management statements be waived in
   certain types of cases (for example, limited cases, cases under
   $50,000, etc.). The committee recommends against providing a blanket
   exemption for limited civil cases or allowing courts to provide by
   local rule for categorical exemptions from the case management rules
   for a number of reasons. For one thing, uniform statewide rules of
   procedure have been an important goal of the Judicial Council and the
   Legislature. Adopting uniform rules in the area of case management will
   be a major step toward simplifying civil practice, reducing costs, and
   promoting access to the courts. It would be contrary to these policies
   to allow each court on a county-by- county basis to determine if it
   wanted to exempt limited cases or other categories of cases. In
   addition, the exemption of a significant category of cases (that is,
   all limited civil cases) from the case management rules would be
   contrary to the established council policy that the courts have the
   responsibility for managing cases. Exempting limited cases from case
   management would also be inconsistent with the Legislature's intent.
   (See Gov. Code, § 68620 (exempting certain specific types of cases, but
   otherwise requiring municipal courts to establish trial court delay
   reduction programs by January 1, 1992).) Finally, the categorical
   exemption of limited cases would be contrary to the policies underlying
   trial court unification. For these and other reasons, the committee
   recommends against providing a broad exemption from the new case
   management rules for limited civil cases or other categories of cases.
   However, the committee supports a more limited modification to the case
   management rules that will allow courts by local rule to provide that
   counsel and self-represented parties are not to attend case management
   conferences, unless ordered to do so by the court. This modification is
   contained in rule 212(b)(3), which was added to the rules after
   discussions with the council's Rules and Projects Committee and some
   trial courts. The rationale for rule 212(b)(3) is practical. Some
   courts with a large volume of limited civil cases are very concerned
   that it would be burdensome for them to hold case management
   conferences in all or most limited civil cases. The committee initially
   did not think that a special exception was needed for such cases. By
   approximately 180 days after filing (the time when most conferences
   would be held), a majority of limited civil cases are generally already
   disposed of by default, settlement, dismissal, or other means. Also,
   rule 212(b)(2) allows courts, if they determine after case management
   review that appearances are not necessary in a 11 particular case, to
   issue a case management conference order and notify the parties that
   they need not appear. Finally, the experience of the courts has shown
   that courts that actively manage cases ultimately save judicial
   resources by resolving cases more quickly and in a less costly manner.
   Hence, for most courts, the case management procedures initially
   proposed appeared to be satisfactory. Nonetheless, because some courts
   had serious concerns about the lack of available judicial resources and
   the difficulties of holding conferences in limited civil cases, the
   committee supports adding a provision to the rules that will permit
   courts by local rule to provide that counsel and self-represented
   parties are not to attend case management conferences, unless the court
   orders them to do so. The exception is provided so that courts
   experiencing an exceptionally large volume of limited civil cases can
   manage these within their resources. This limited exception
   specifically relating to the holding of conferences is not inconsistent
   with basic case management principles. Most courts will probably not
   adopt local rules making the exception for limited civil cases
   applicable in their counties. But in counties where courts adopt such
   an exception, the parties will still be required to submit case
   management statements; the courts will still review all applicable
   civil cases, including limited civil cases; and the courts will issue
   case management orders for those cases. Based on the case management
   experiences of the trial courts, the council may want to revisit this
   issue in the future. For the present, the committee supports the new
   case management rules, including rule 212(b)(3), because they will
   provide a flexible means for managing both unlimited and limited civil
   cases within the resources available. Commentators also discussed
   several other case management rules besides rule 212. For instance, two
   comments were received on new rule 214 on the management of short cause
   cases. This rule is derived from former rule 216. One commentator
   proposed modifying rule 214 to substitute language automatically
   exempting short cause cases from case management. The committee
   disagreed with this suggestion because courts need to have some
   mechanism-such as provided in subdivision (b)-so they can identify
   whether a case is a short cause case. Another commentator was concerned
   because proposed rule 214(c) provided, in the event of a mistrial, for
   a case management conference, but not for a new trial. The committee
   agreed and modified subdivision(c) to state that in the event of a
   mistrial, the case must be set either for a case management conference
   or a new trial. No specific comments were received about the repeal of
   rules 215221, 223, and 224, or about the amendments to rules 222 and
   226. 12 Five commentators remarked on the proposed amendments to rule
   225. This rule concerns the duty to notify the court and others of a
   settlement or stay. A court operations manager recommended a stylistic
   revision of subdivision (a) on notice of settlement. Another
   commentator recommended revising the titles of subdivisions (b) and (c)
   and modifying the language of the first sentence of (c) to refer to a
   "conditional settlement" rather than "settlement." The committee agreed
   with these suggestions and modified the rule. A commentator recommended
   revising rule 225(d) on stays. She noted that no document stays the
   case. The stay under section 362 of Title 11 of the United States Code
   is automatic upon the filing of the bankruptcy petition; hence, the
   rule needs to be amended. The committee agreed and modified the rule.
   Finally, two commentators proposed that rule 225 be amended to clarify
   the effects of a conditional dismissal under this rule. The committee
   believes the rule is sufficiently clear on this point and does not need
   to be modified. Comments on the Forms Case Management Statement (form
   CM-110) To assist parties in complying with the new case management
   procedures, particularly rule 212, a new Case Management Statement has
   been developed. There were extensive comments on the proposed form. The
   main issues raised about the new form were (1) whether parties should
   be required to file it jointly, (2) whether it should be reorganized
   and shortened, (3) whether it should be mandatory, and (4) whether a
   case management form should be required at all. First, the commentators
   differed over whether case management statements should be filed
   jointly. One court felt that all case management statements submitted
   should be jointly made and parties should not be allowed to submit
   individual case management information forms, except in limited cases.
   The commentator provided practical reasons for the joint submission,
   including the burden on the courts of having to review numerous
   different forms. On the other hand, the president of a local bar
   association stated that joint filing should not be required. He was
   concerned that, too often, requiring joint action leads one party to
   blame the other for a statement being late or for something being left
   out. The committee recognized that there are fair arguments on both
   sides. Based on the burdens and problems that attorneys and
   self-represented litigants would encounter in filing their statements
   jointly, the committee recommends that parties be given the option to
   file the form either jointly or separately. This matter could be
   revisited in a few years, after litigants have became familiar with the
   new form and case management procedures. Second, several commentators
   recommended that the Case Management Statement be reorganized or
   shortened. The committee agreed. It has substantially reorganized 13
   the form to have a more logical order. Also, it has eliminated some
   items, though not all the items suggested by the commentators. Third,
   although most commentators supported the Case Management Statement,
   they did not specifically comment on whether the form should be
   mandatory. One person who did comment explained that the form should be
   mandatory because this would result in greater uniformity. A few courts
   requested that they be allowed to continue using their current case
   management statements, questionnaires, or at-issue memorandums. The
   committee strongly recommends making the form mandatory and against
   allowing courts to continue using their own forms. The new form should
   be mandatory because this will promote good case management and
   uniformity of practice statewide. The alternative-to permit the
   patchwork of local forms to continue-would make litigation for more
   difficult and costly throughout the state. Finally, a couple of
   commentators thought that courts should be allowed not only to dispense
   with using the new form, but also to require by local rule that no case
   management statement at all be filed. The committee disagreed with
   these suggestions because (1) requiring parties to provide all relevant
   case management information orally is not an efficient practice in most
   cases; (2) written statements provide information not just to the
   courts, but also to the litigants, and the information exchanged before
   the conference may assist the parties in narrowing issues or settling
   cases; and (3) there are definite advantages for practitioners in
   having uniform statewide practices regarding case management, including
   the use of a standard form. Notice of Case Management Conference (form
   CM-100) The only comment received on the proposal to revoke the notice
   form was one individual's support for revoking it. Implementation
   Requirements and Costs The implementation of the new case management
   procedures will require time, commitment, and effort from the trial
   courts. Judicial officers and court personnel will need to become
   familiar with these procedures. For these reasons, the committee
   recommends that the effective date of the new procedures be July 1,
   2002. The new procedures will require greater adjustments and changes
   in some courts than in others. Costs will be involved in modifying
   procedures and training people. But, in the end, the impact of the
   modernized rules should be to significantly improve case management in
   all the courts of this state and to further reduce trial court delay.
   Thus, the changes should ultimately benefit litigants, the courts, and
   the public. 14 Recommendation The Civil and Small Claims Advisory
   Committee recommends that the Judicial Council, effective July 1, 2002:
   1. Repeal rules 209, 210, 211, 215, 216, 217, 218, 219, 220, 221, 223,
   224, 1590, 1590.2, and 1590.3 of the California Rules of Court; 2.
   Amend rules 982.2, 1590.1, 208, 2101, 2102, 2103, 2104, 2105, and 2106
   and renumber them as rules 201.8, 201.9, 204.2, 205, 206, 207, 208,
   209, and 210, respectively; 3. Amend rules 212, 213, 222, 225, 226,
   298, and 1580; 4. Adopt rules 201.7, 204.1, and 214; 5. Adopt Case
   Management Statement (form CM-110); and 6. Revoke Notice of Case
   Management (form CM-100). The text of the case management rules is
   attached at pages 1639; new form CM-110 is attached at pages 4043; and
   revoked form CM-100 is attached at page 44. Attachments 15 Rules 209,
   210, 211, 215, 216, 217, 218, 219, 220, 221, 223, 224, 1590, 1590.2,
   and 1590.3 of the California Rules of Court are repealed; rules 982.2,
   1590.1, 2101, 2102, 2103, 2104, 2105, and 2106 are amended and
   renumbered as rules 201.8, 201.9, 204.2, 205, 206, 207, 208, 209, and
   210, respectively; rules 212, 213, 222, 225, 226, 298, and 1580 are
   amended; and new rules 201.7, 204.1, and 214 are adopted, effective
   July 1, 2002, to read: 1 DIVISION I. RULES FOR THE TRIAL COURTS 2
   CHAPTER 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS 3 RULES 200 TO 203.5 4 5 Rule 201.7. Time
   for service of complaint, cross-complaint, and response 6 7 (a)
   [Applicability] This rule applies to the service of pleadings in civil
   cases 8 except for unlawful detainer actions, proceedings under the
   Family Code, 9 and other proceedings for which different service
   requirements are 10 prescribed by law. 11 12 (b) [Service of complaint]
   The complaint must be served on all named 13 defendants and proofs of
   service on those defendants must be filed with 14 the court within 60
   days after the filing of the complaint. When the 15 complaint is
   amended to add a defendant, the added defendant must be 16 served and
   proof of service must be filed within 30 days after the filing of 17
   the amended complaint. 18 19 (c) [Service of cross-complaint] A
   cross-complaint against a party who has 20 appeared in the action must
   be accompanied by proof of service of the 21 cross-complaint at the
   time it is filed. If the cross-complaint adds new 22 parties, the
   cross-complaint must be served on all parties and proofs of 23 service
   on the new parties must be filed within 30 days of the filing of the 24
   cross-complaint. 25 26 (d) [Timing of responsive pleadings] The parties
   may stipulate without 27 leave of court to one 15-day extension beyond
   the 30-day time period 28 prescribed for the response after service of
   the initial complaint. 29 30 (e) [Modification of timing; application
   for order extending time] The 31 court, on its own motion or on the
   application of a party, may extend or 32 otherwise modify the times
   provided in (b)(d). An application for a 33 court order extending the
   time to serve a pleading must be filed before the 16 1 time for service
   has elapsed. The application must be accompanied by a 2 declaration
   showing why service has not been effected, documenting the 3 efforts
   that have been made to effect service, and specifying the date by 4
   which service is proposed to be effected. 5 6 (f) [Failure to serve]
   Unless the court has granted an order extending the 7 time to serve a
   complaint or cross-complaint, the failure to serve and file 8 pleadings
   as required under this rule may result in an Order to Show 9 Cause
   being issued as to why sanctions shall not be imposed. 10 11 (g)
   [Request for entry of default] If a responsive pleading is not served
   12 within the time limits specified in this rule and no extension of
   time has 13 been granted, the plaintiff within 10 days after the time
   for service has 14 elapsed must file a request for entry of default.
   Failure to timely file the 15 request for the entry of default may
   result in an Order to Show Cause 16 being issued as to why sanctions
   shall not be imposed. 17 18 (h) [Default judgment] When a default is
   entered, the party who requested 19 the entry of default must obtain a
   default judgment against the defaulting 20 party within 45 days after
   entry of default, unless the court has granted an 21 extension of time.
   Failure to obtain entry of judgment against a defaulting 22 party or to
   request an extension of time to apply for a default judgment 23 may
   result in an Order to Show Cause being issued as to why sanctions 24
   shall not be imposed. 25 26 (i) [Order to Show Cause] When the court
   issues an Order to Show Cause 27 under this rule, responsive papers to
   the Order to Show Cause must be 28 filed and served no less than 5
   calendar days before the hearing. 29 30 Rule 982.2 201.8. Case cover
   sheet required 31 32 (a) [Cover sheet required] The first paper filed
   in an action or proceeding 33 must be accompanied by a case cover sheet
   as required in (b). The cover 34 sheet must be on a form prescribed by
   the Judicial Council and must be 35 filed in addition to any cover
   sheet required by local court rules. If the 36 plaintiff indicates on
   the cover sheet that the case is complex under rule 37 1800 et seq.,
   the plaintiff must serve a copy of the cover sheet with the 38
   complaint. In all other cases, the plaintiff is not required to serve
   the 39 cover sheet. The cover sheet is used for statistical purposes
   and may 40 affect the assignment of a complex case. 41 42 (b) [List of
   cover sheets] 43 D:\temp\me\Case.Mgmt.rpt.doc 17 1 (1) Civil Case Cover
   Sheet Civil Case Cover Sheet (form 982.2(b)(1))- 2 required in each
   civil action or proceeding, except those filed in 3 small claims court
   or filed under the Probate Code, Family Law 4 Code, or Welfare and
   Institutions Code. 5 6 (2) [Note: Case cover sheets will be added for
   use in additional areas of 7 the law as the data collection program
   expands.] 8 9 (c) [Failure to provide cover sheet] If a party that is
   required to provide a 10 cover sheet under this rule or a similar local
   rule fails to do so or provides 11 a defective or incomplete cover
   sheet at the time the party's first paper is 12 submitted for filing,
   the clerk of the court must file the paper. Failure of a 13 party or
   the party's counsel to file a cover sheet as required by this rule 14
   may subject that party, its counsel, or both, to sanctions under rule
   227. 15 16 Rule 1590.1 201.9. Information about ADR Alternative Dispute
   Resolution 17 18 (a) [Court to provide information package] Each court
   shall must make 19 available to the plaintiff, at the time of filing of
   the complaint, an 20 Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) information
   package that includes, 21 at a minimum, all of the following: 22 23 (1)
   General information about the potential advantages and 24 disadvantages
   of ADR and descriptions of the principal ADR 25 processes. The
   Administrative Office of the Courts shall has 26 prepared model
   language that the courts may use to provide this 27 information. 28 29
   (2) Information about the ADR programs available in that court, 30
   including citations to any applicable local court rules and directions
   31 for contacting any court staff responsible for providing parties
   with 32 assistance regarding ADR. 33 34 (3) In counties that are
   participating in the Dispute Resolution Programs 35 Act (DRPA),
   information about the availability of local dispute 36 resolution
   programs funded under the DRPA. This information may 37 take the form
   of a list of the applicable programs or directions for 38 contacting
   the county's DRPA coordinator. 39 40 (4) An ADR stipulation form that
   parties may use to stipulate to the use 41 of an ADR process. 42
   D:\temp\me\Case.Mgmt.rpt.doc 18 1 (b) [Court may make package available
   on Web site] A court may make 2 the ADR information package available
   on its Web site as long as paper 3 copies are also made available in
   the clerk's office. 4 5 (b)(c) [Plaintiff to serve information package]
   The plaintiff shall must serve 6 a copy of the ADR information package
   on each defendant along with the 7 complaint. Cross-complainants shall
   must serve a copy of the ADR 8 information package on any new parties
   to the action along with the 9 cross-complaint. 10 11 CHAPTER 2. CIVIL
   TRIAL COURT MANAGEMENT RULES 12 RULES 204 TO 227 13 PART 1. Management
   Duties 14 Rule 204.1. Case management and calendaring system 15 16 Each
   court must adopt a case management and calendaring system for general
   civil 17 cases that will advance the goals set forth in section 2 of
   the California Standards of 18 Judicial Administration. 19 20 Rule 208
   204.2. Internal management procedures 21 22 Each trial court shall
   must: 23 24 (1) maintain a calendar and caseflow management system
   which will 25 ensure that a sufficient number of cases are set for
   trial, based on the 26 court's experience, so that all departments will
   be occupied with 27 judicial business; 28 29 (2) adopt for judges and
   court personnel an internal operations manual 30 of policies and
   procedures necessary for the efficient operation and 31 management of
   the court; 32 33 (3) maintain and periodically review for accuracy
   written local court 34 procedures, policies, and operating practices
   not contained in local 35 rules for quick, accurate, and complete
   reference; and 36 37 (4) assure that calendaring functions are
   performed as directed by the 38 court and that personnel rendering
   direct and immediate service to 39 the court are within its
   administrative control to the maximum extent 40 consistent with the
   existing organizational structures. 41 D:\temp\me\Case.Mgmt.rpt.doc 19
   1 PART 2. Differential Case Management 2 3 Rule 2101 205. Authority 4 5
   The rules in this division chapter implement section 68603(c) of the
   Government 6 Code under the Trial Court Delay Reduction Act of 1990. 7
   8 Rule 2102 206. Local court rules 9 10 Each court shall must adopt
   local rules on differential case management as provided 11 in this
   division chapter consistent with rules 212 and 512 of the California
   Rules of 12 Court and the statement of general principles set forth in
   section 2 of the California 13 Standards of Judicial Administration. 14
   15 Rule 2103 207. Dates for Application; cases included in delay
   reduction 16 program; exceptions 17 18 (a) [New and existing cases
   Application] The rules in this division chapter 19 apply to general
   civil cases filed in a delay reduction program after June 20 30, 1991,
   and all general civil cases filed in the trial courts. after June 30,
   21 1992. The court may order any other general civil case be included
   in the 22 differential case management program upon notice to the
   parties. 23 24 (b) [General civil case] As used in this division
   chapter, "general civil case" 25 means all civil cases except probate,
   guardianship, conservatorship, 26 family law (including proceedings
   under the Family Law Act, Uniform 27 Parentage Act, and Uniform Child
   Custody Jurisdiction Act; freedom 28 from parental custody and control
   proceedings; and adoption 29 proceedings), juvenile court proceedings,
   small claims appeals 30 proceedings, unlawful detainer proceedings, and
   "other civil petitions" as 31 defined in the Regulations on Superior
   Court Reports to the Judicial 32 Council including petitions for a writ
   of mandate or prohibition, 33 temporary restraining order, harassment
   restraining order, domestic 34 violence restraining order, writ of
   possession, appointment of a receiver, 35 release of property from
   lien, and change of name by the Judicial Branch 36 Statistical
   Information Data Collection Standards. 37 38 (c) [Uninsured motorist]
   To allow for arbitration of the plaintiff's claim, 39 the rules in this
   division chapter shall do not apply to a case designated by 40 the
   court as "uninsured motorist" until 180 days after the designation. 41
   42 (d) [Coordination] The rules in this division chapter shall do not
   apply to 43 any case included in a petition for coordination. If the
   petition is granted, D:\temp\me\Case.Mgmt.rpt.doc 20 1 the coordination
   trial judge may establish a case progression plan for the 2 cases,
   which may be within one of the three case/ management plans or, 3 after
   appropriate findings, within the exceptional case category. 4 5 Rule
   2104 208. Delay reduction goals 6 7 (a) [Case management goals] The
   rules in this division chapter are adopted 8 to advance the goals of
   section 68607 of the Government Code and 9 section 2 of the California
   Standards of Judicial Administration 10 Recommended by the Judicial
   Council within the time limits specified in 11 section 68616 of the
   Government Code. 12 13 (b) [Case/disposition time goals] The goal of
   the court shall be is to manage 14 general civil cases from filing to
   disposition as provided under sections 15 2.1 and 2.3 of the California
   Standards of Judicial Administration. 16 17 (c) [Judges'
   responsibility] It shall be is the responsibility of judges to 18
   achieve a just and effective resolution of each general civil case
   through 19 active management and supervision of the pace of litigation
   from the date 20 of filing to disposition. 21 22 23 Rule 2105 209.
   Differentiation of cases to achieve goals 24 25 (a) [Evaluation and
   assignment] The court shall must evaluate each case as 26 provided in
   rule 2106 210 under procedures adopted by local court rules. 27 After
   evaluation, the court shall must: 28 29 (1) assign each case to one of
   the three case/ management plans listed in 30 subdivision (b),; or 31
   32 (2) exempt the case under subdivision (d) from the case/ disposition
   33 time goals specified in rule 2104(b) 208(b),; or 34 35 (3) assign
   the case under subdivision (e) to the local case/ management 36 plan.
   37 38 (b) [Case/ management plans] Time of disposition under the
   following 39 case/ management plans shall be is, from the date of
   filing: 40 41 (1) Plan 1, disposition within: 12 months; 42 43 (2) Plan
   2, disposition within: 18 months; D:\temp\me\Case.Mgmt.rpt.doc 21 1 2
   (3) Plan 3, disposition within: 24 months. 3 4 (c) [Case/ management
   Plan 1] The court may by local rule presume that a 5 case is subject to
   the disposition goal under case/ management Plan 1 6 when the case is
   filed or as otherwise provided by the court. The court 7 may modify the
   assigned case/ management plan at any time for good 8 cause shown. 9 10
   (d) [Exceptional cases] The court may in the interest of justice exempt
   a 11 general civil case from the case/ disposition time goals if it
   finds the case 12 involves exceptional circumstances that will prevent
   the court and the 13 parties from meeting the goals and deadlines
   imposed by the program. In 14 making the determination, the court shall
   be is guided by rules 2106 210 15 and 1800. 16 17 If the court exempts
   the case from the case/ disposition time goals, the 18 court shall must
   establish a case/ progression plan and monitor the case to 19 ensure
   timely disposition consistent with the exceptional circumstances, 20
   with a the goal for of dispositioning of the case within three years.
   21 22 (e) [Local case/ management plan] The court may by local rule
   adopt a 23 case/ management plan that establishes a goal for disposing
   of 24 appropriate cases within six to nine months after filing. The
   plan shall 25 must establish a procedure to identify the cases to be
   assigned to the plan. 26 The plan shall must be used only for
   uncomplicated cases most amenable 27 to early disposition that may do
   not need a case management conference 28 or first status conference or
   review or similar event to guide the case to 29 early resolution. 30 31
   Rule 2106 210. Case evaluation factors 32 33 In applying rule 2105 209,
   the court shall must estimate the maximum time that will 34 reasonably
   be required to dispose of each case in a just and effective manner. The
   35 court shall must consider the following factors and any other
   information the court 36 deems relevant, understanding that no one
   factor or set of factors shall will be 37 controlling and that cases
   may have unique characteristics incapable of precise 38 definition: 39
   40 (1) Type and subject matter of the action; 41 42 (2) Number of
   causes of action or affirmative defenses alleged; 43
   D:\temp\me\Case.Mgmt.rpt.doc 22 1 (3) Number of parties with separate
   interests; 2 3 (4) Number of cross-complaints and the subject matter; 4
   5 (5) Complexity of issues, including issues of first impression; 6 7
   (6) Difficulty in identifying, locating, and serving parties; 8 9 (7)
   Nature and extent of discovery anticipated; 10 11 (8) Number and
   location of percipient and expert witnesses; 12 13 (9) Estimated length
   of trial; 14 15 (10) Whether some or all issues can be arbitrated; 16
   17 (11) Statutory priority for the issues; 18 19 (12) Likelihood of
   review by writ or appeal; 20 21 (13) Amount in controversy and the type
   of remedy sought, including 22 measures of damages; 23 24 (14) Pendency
   of other actions or proceedings which may affect the case; 25 26 (15)
   Nature and extent of law and motion proceedings anticipated; 27 28 (16)
   Nature and extent of the injuries and damages; 29 30 (17) Pendency of
   underinsured claims; and 31 32 (18) Any other factor that would affect
   the time for disposition of the 33 case. 34 35 36 PART 23. Caseflow
   Management 37 38 Rule 209. Civil cases at issue 39 40 (a) [At-issue
   memorandum] A civil case not subject to the Trial Court 41 Delay
   Reduction Act may be placed on the civil active list or be set for 42
   trial when the court deems the case to be at issue or, if the court so
   43 requires, (i) when the parties have filed a joint at-issue
   memorandum, or D:\temp\me\Case.Mgmt.rpt.doc 23 1 (ii) when a party has
   served and filed an at-issue memorandum. The at- 2 issue memorandum
   shall include the following: 3 4 (1) the title and number of the case;
   5 6 (2) the nature of the case; 7 8 (3) a statement that all essential
   parties have been served with process or 9 have appeared and that the
   case is at issue as to those parties; 10 11 (4) whether the case is
   entitled to legal preference, and, if so, a citation 12 to the section
   of the code or statute granting the preference; 13 14 (5) whether a
   jury trial is demanded; 15 16 (6) the time estimated for trial; and 17
   18 (7) the names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the attorneys for
   the 19 parties or of parties appearing without counsel. 20 21 For
   purposes of this rule and rule 210, a case may be considered at issue
   22 notwithstanding any cross-complaint that is not at issue. 23 24 This
   rule shall not affect the authority of the court to order a severance
   of 25 a cross-complaint pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
   1048. 26 27 (b) [Cross-complaints] Any case, whether or not subject to
   the Trial Court 28 Delay Reduction Act, may be considered at issue
   notwithstanding any 29 cross-complaint that is not at issue. 30 31 This
   rule shall not affect the authority of the court to order a severance
   of 32 a cross-complaint pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
   1048. 33 34 (c) [Judicial arbitration] In courts having judicial
   arbitration under Code of 35 Civil Procedure section 1141.11, the
   at-issue memorandum shall state 36 37 (1) whether the case is suitable
   for placement on the arbitration hearing 38 list, and a statement of
   reasons if a party claims that it is not; 39 40 (2) whether the
   plaintiff elects or the parties stipulate that the case be 41 placed on
   the arbitration hearing list; and 42 D:\temp\me\Case.Mgmt.rpt.doc 24 1
   (3) the type of injury and special damages in a personal injury case,
   and 2 the amount of damages and relief sought in any other case. 3 4
   (d) [Countermemorandum] A party not in agreement with the information 5
   or estimates given in an at-issue memorandum shall within 10 days after
   6 service of the memorandum, or within 5 days after service in an
   unlawful 7 detainer proceeding, serve and file a countermemorandum on
   the party's 8 behalf. 9 10 Rule 210. Civil active list 11 12 The court
   may maintain a record of all cases not subject to the Trial Court Delay
   13 Reduction Act in which an at-issue memorandum or order deeming the
   case to be 14 at-issue has been filed. The record shall be known as the
   civil active list and shall be 15 arranged in the order in which the
   at-issue memoranda and at-issue orders are filed. 16 17 Rule 211.
   Arbitration status conference 18 19 (a) [The conference] Unless
   otherwise provided by law, courts having more 20 than three judges and
   a judicial arbitration program under Code of Civil 21 Procedure section
   1141.11 shall hold an arbitration status conference in 22 every case
   where suitability for judicial arbitration must be determined 23 unless
   the plaintiff elects or the parties stipulate that the case be placed
   on 24 the arbitration hearing list. The conference shall be held within
   30 to 90 25 days after the filing of the at-issue memorandum but no
   later than 90 days 26 before trial, unless otherwise ordered by the
   court for good cause. 27 28 (b) [Persons attending] The persons
   attending the conference shall have 29 sufficient knowledge of the case
   to inform the court of the suitability of 30 placing the case on the
   arbitration hearing list. 31 32 (c) [Action at conference] At the
   conference the court may 33 34 (1) order a case which it determines is
   not ready to be set for trial to be 35 removed from the civil active
   list; 36 37 (2) order the case placed on the arbitration hearing list;
   38 39 (3) conduct a trial setting conference as provided in rules 218,
   219, and 40 220 if the case can be set for trial within 90 to 120 days
   after the 41 arbitration status conference or at any earlier time as
   the parties may 42 agree or the court orders; 43
   D:\temp\me\Case.Mgmt.rpt.doc 25 1 (4) assign a time and place for a
   trial setting conference if the case 2 cannot be set as provided in
   subdivision (c)(3) but can be given a 3 date certain for trial within
   120 to 180 days after the arbitration 4 status conference; 5 6 (5)
   assign a time and place for a pretrial conference if required by local
   7 rules; or 8 9 (6) set a status conference if the case cannot be set
   for trial, trial setting 10 conference, or pretrial conference as
   provided in this subdivision; 11 and 12 13 (7) conduct settlement
   discussions whenever appropriate. 14 15 Rule 212. Case management
   conference; and meetandconfer requirement; 16 and case management order
   17 18 (a) [Initial case management review] In every general civil case
   except 19 complex cases and cases exempted under rules 207(c)(d),
   209(d)(e), 20 and 214, the court must review the case no later than 180
   days after the 21 filing of the initial complaint. 22 23 (a)(b) [Case
   management conference permitted by local rule] 24 25 (1) [Case
   management conference] Where permitted by local rule, In 26 each case,
   the court must set a case management conference to 27 review the case.
   may be held if requested by all parties or ordered by 28 the court,
   either on its own motion or on the noticed motion of a 29 party. A
   request for a conference shall not be granted if to do so will 30 in
   the opinion of the court unreasonably interfere with bringing the 31
   case to trial or will result in an unfair advantage to any party.
   Notice 32 of the date of the case management conference must be given
   to all 33 parties no later than 45 days before the conference, unless
   otherwise 34 ordered by the court. The court may provide by local rule
   for the 35 time and manner of giving notice to the parties. At the
   conference, 36 counsel for each party and each self-represented party
   must appear 37 personally or, if permitted under rule 298(c)(2), by
   telephone, must 38 be familiar with the case, and must be prepared to
   discuss and 39 commit to the party's position on the issues listed in
   (e)(f). 40 41 (2) [Case management order without appearance] If, based
   on its 42 review of the written submissions of the parties and such
   other 43 information as is available, the court determines that
   appearances at D:\temp\me\Case.Mgmt.rpt.doc 26 1 the conference are not
   necessary, the court may issue a case 2 management order and notify the
   parties that no appearance is 3 required. 4 5 (3) [Option to excuse
   attendance at conferences in limited civil cases.] 6 In all general
   civil cases except those exempted under (a), the court 7 must review
   the case and issue a case management order under this 8 rule, but by
   local rule the court may provide that counsel and self- 9 represented
   parties are not to attend a case management conference 10 in limited
   civil cases, unless ordered to do so by the court. 11 12 (c) [Special
   order or request for a case management conference] The 13 court on its
   own motion may order, or a party or parties may request, that 14 a case
   management conference be held at any time. 15 16 (d) [Arbitration
   determination] In courts having a judicial arbitration 17 program under
   Code of Civil Procedure section 1141.11, the court at the 18 time of
   the case management conference or review must determine if the 19 case
   is suitable for judicial arbitration. 20 21 (e) [Subjects to be
   considered at the case management conference] In 22 any case management
   conference or review under this rule, the parties 23 must address, if
   applicable, and the court may take appropriate action 24 with respect
   to, the following: 25 26 (1) Whether there are any related cases; 27 28
   (2) Whether all parties named in the complaint or cross-complaint have
   29 been served, have appeared, or have been dismissed; 30 31 (3)
   Whether any additional parties may be added or the pleadings may 32 be
   amended; 33 34 (4) Whether, if the case is a limited civil case, the
   economic litigation 35 procedures under Code of Civil Procedure section
   90 et seq. will 36 apply to it or the party intends to bring a motion
   to exempt the case 37 from these procedures; 38 39 (5) Whether any
   other matters (e.g., the bankruptcy of a party) may 40 affect the
   court's jurisdiction or processing of the case; 41 42 (6) Whether the
   parties have stipulated to, or the case should be referred 43 to,
   judicial arbitration or any other form of Alternative Dispute
   D:\temp\me\Case.Mgmt.rpt.doc 27 1 Resolution (ADR) and, if so, the date
   by which the ADR must be 2 completed; 3 4 (7) Whether an early
   settlement conference should be scheduled and, if 5 so, on what date; 6
   7 (8) Whether discovery has been completed and, if not, the date by
   which 8 it will be completed; 9 10 (9) What discovery issues are
   anticipated; 11 12 (10) Whether the case should be bifurcated; 13 14
   (11) Whether there are any cross-complaints that are not ready to be
   set 15 for trial and, if so, whether they should be severed; 16 17 (12)
   Whether the case is entitled to any statutory preference and, if so,
   the 18 statute granting the preference; 19 20 (13) Whether a jury trial
   is demanded, and, if so, the identity of each 21 party requesting a
   jury trial; 22 23 (14) If the trial date has not been previously set,
   the date by which the 24 case will be ready for trial and the available
   trial dates; 25 26 (15) The estimated length of trial; 27 28 (16) The
   nature of the injuries; 29 30 (17) The amount of damages, including any
   special or punitive damages; 31 32 (18) Any additional relief sought;
   33 34 (19) Whether there are any insurance coverage issues that may
   affect the 35 resolution of the case; and 36 37 (20) Any other matters
   that should be considered by the court or 38 addressed in its case
   management order. 39 40 (b)(f) [Meet-and-confer requirement] Unless the
   court orders another time 41 period, no later than 30 calendar days
   before the date set for the first 42 scheduled case management
   conference unless otherwise ordered in a 43 complex case, the parties
   shall must meet and confer, in person or by
   D:\temp\me\Case.Mgmt.rpt.doc 28 1 telephone, and shall discuss the
   following, as applicable to the case: to 2 consider each of the issues
   identified in (e) and, in addition, to consider 3 the following: 4 5
   (1) Service of all anticipated parties; 6 7 (2) Related cases; 8 9 (3)
   Facts that are presently available to support the pleadings filed by 10
   each party; 11 12 (1) Resolving any discovery disputes and setting a
   discovery schedule; 13 14 (2) Identifying and, if possible, informally
   resolving any anticipated 15 motions; 16 17 (3) Identifying the facts
   and issues in the case that are uncontested and 18 may be the subject
   of stipulation; 19 20 (4) Identifying the facts and issues in the case
   that are in dispute; 21 22 (5) Determining whether the issues in the
   case can be narrowed by 23 eliminating any claims or defenses by means
   of a motion or 24 otherwise; 25 26 (4) Injuries; 27 28 (5) Damages; 29
   30 (6) Whether the amount in controversy will exceed $25,000, or
   whether 31 the case should proceed as economic litigation under Code of
   Civil 32 Procedure section 90 et seq.; 33 34 (7) Alternative dispute
   resolution, including mediation, arbitration, and 35 neutral case
   evaluation, as available; 36 37 (8) Anticipated law and motion; 38 39
   (9) Preliminary schedules of discovery; 40 41 (10)(6) Possible
   settlement; and 42 43 (11)(7) Other relevant matters.
   D:\temp\me\Case.Mgmt.rpt.doc 29 1 2 (c)(g) [Case management statement]
   3 4 (1) [Timing of statement] No later than 5 15 calendar days before
   the 5 date set for the first scheduled case management conference or 6
   review, each party shall must (i) file a case management conference 7
   statement with the clerk of the court; (ii) lodge a copy directly in
   the 8 department of the assigned judge, if any; and (iii) serve the
   case 9 management conference statement it on all other parties in the
   case. 10 The case management conference statement shall state that the
   11 parties have met and conferred as required by subdivision (b) of
   this 12 rule, and shall discuss the areas of agreement and disagreement
   13 between the parties on each of the required subjects. The statement
   14 shall also indicate whether there is an alternative dispute
   resolution 15 process in which the party would be willing to
   participate on a 16 voluntary basis. 17 18 (2) [Contents of statement]
   Parties must use the mandatory Case 19 Management Statement (form
   CM-110). All applicable items on the 20 form must be completed. In lieu
   of each party filing a separate case 21 management statement, any two
   or more parties may file a joint 22 statement under this rule. 23 24
   (h) [Stipulation to Alternative Dispute Resolution] If all parties
   agree to 25 use an Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) process, they
   must jointly 26 complete the ADR stipulation form provided for under
   rule 201.9 and file 27 it with the court. 28 29 (d)(i) [Conference Case
   management order] The case management 30 conference shall must be
   conducted in the manner provided by local rule. 31 The conference judge
   may The court must prepare and sign enter a 32 conference case
   management order setting a schedule for subsequent 33 proceedings and
   otherwise providing for the management of the case. 34 The order should
   include such provisions as may be appropriate, 35 including: stating,
   but not limited to the following: 36 37 (1) the case is ready to be
   assigned a definite trial date; 38 39 (1) Referral of the case to
   judicial arbitration or some other form of 40 Alternative Dispute
   Resolution; 41 D:\temp\me\Case.Mgmt.rpt.doc 30 1 (2) A date for
   completion of the arbitration process or other form of 2 Alternative
   Dispute Resolution process if the case has been referred 3 to such a
   process; 4 5 (3) In the event that a trial date has not previously been
   set, a date 6 certain for trial if the case is ready to be set for
   trial; 7 8 (4) Whether the trial will be a jury trial or a nonjury
   trial; 9 10 (2)(5) The identity of any each party demanding a jury
   trial; 11 12 (6) The estimated length of trial; 13 14 (3)(7) Whether
   all parties necessary to the disposition of the case have 15 been
   served or have appeared; 16 17 (4)(8) The dismissal or severance of the
   unserved or not appearing 18 fictitious or named defendants to be
   dismissed or severed from the 19 action; 20 21 (5)(9) The names and
   addresses of counsel the attorneys who will try the 22 case; 23 24
   (6)(10) The date, time, and place for a mandatory settlement conference
   25 as provided in rule 222; and 26 27 (7) a date certain for trial
   within the period provided in rule 218 and the 28 time estimated for
   trial. 29 30 (11) The date, time, and place for the final case
   management conference 31 before trial if such a conference is required
   by the court or the judge 32 assigned to the case; 33 34 (12) The date,
   time, and place of any further case management 35 conferences or
   review; and 36 37 (13) Any additional orders that may be appropriate,
   including orders on 38 matters listed in (e) and (f). 39 40 (j) [Case
   management order controls] The order issued after the case 41
   management conference or review controls the subsequent course of the
   42 action or proceeding unless it is modified by a subsequent order. 43
   D:\temp\me\Case.Mgmt.rpt.doc 31 1 Rule 213. Assignment to one judge for
   all or limited purposes 2 3 The presiding judge may, on the noticed
   motion of a party or on the court's motion, 4 order the assignment of
   any case to one judge for all or such limited purposes as will 5
   promote the efficient administration of justice. In determining the
   suitability of 6 assignment, the presiding judge shall be guided by the
   standards recommended in 7 section 19 of the Standards of Judicial
   Administration. 8 9 Rule 214. Management of short cause cases 10 11 (a)
   [Short cause cases] A short cause case is a civil case in which the
   time 12 estimated for trial by all parties or the court is five hours
   or less. All other 13 civil cases are long cause cases. 14 15 (b)
   [Exemption for short caus
