http://www.neh.gov/online/internships/guideline.html

                              OMB no. 3136-0134
                               Expires 6/30/03

                           NEH Summer Internships

         Deadline for Applying: Friday, February 8, 2002, 5 p.m. EST

                Online applications now being accepted here!


                                  Purpose:
   The Summer Interns Program of the National Endowment for the Humanities
    introduces promising college students to the programs, policies, and
    operations of the federal agency charged with promoting scholarship,
      education, and public programming in the humanities in the United
    States. During their ten-week stay, interns will be assigned, in most
       cases, to one office of the agency to assist in daily work and
           participate in the intellectual life of the Endowment.

    Prospective interns are encouraged to familiarize themselves with the
     scope and mission of the Endowment's work by browsing its website.

                                Eligibility:
   College students entering their junior or senior year in fall 2002 are
    eligible to apply. Graduate students are ineligible. Applicants must
    have declared an undergraduate major in one of the disciplines of the
   humanities or have a strong background in the humanities. The act that
      established NEH defined the term humanities as including, but not
    limited to, the study of history; philosophy; languages; linguistics;
      literature; archaeology; jurisprudence; the history, theory, and
   criticism of the arts; ethics; comparative religion; and those aspects
       of the social sciences that employ historical and philosophical
     approaches. Applicants must be U.S. citizens; foreign nationals who
   have been legal residents in the United States for at least 3 years; or
       territorial residents of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam,
    American Samoa, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.

                              Award and Terms:
     Each intern will receive a stipend of $4,000. For applicants on the
     semester system, the ten-week internship begins on June 3, 2002 and
   concludes on August 9, 2002. For applicants not on the semester system,
     the ten-week period will be arranged separately after the award has
    been offered. The expectation is that all summer internships will be
                    concluded by the end of August, 2002.

                                Arrangements:
    Travel, housing, and board will be the responsibility of the intern,
      but the Endowment will provide a portion of the $4,000 stipend in
      advance of the internship start date to help with these expenses.

                                Application:
    Applications are being accepted via the online application form until
   Friday, February 8, 2002, 5 p.m. EST. A complete e-application consists
                                     of:

     * General contact information;
     * Education information;
     * The name and email address for one person designated to write a
       letter of recommendation; and
     * Two short essays.

   Once an application is submitted, the Endowment will send the applicant
        confirmation via email and automatically request via email an
    electronic letter of recommendation on behalf of the applicant using
   the email address provided on the application form. All applicants are
     strongly encouraged to discuss this process with their recommenders
                    before submitting their applications.

        Applicants without access to the Internet may submit a paper
      application that includes all of the requested information. Such
       applications must arrive at the Endowment no later than Friday,
                              February 8, 2002.

     Applicants should not send transcripts at the time of application.
        Those offered internships will be required to submit official
      transcripts to verify information provided in their applications.

                                  Deadline:
    All applications must be submitted no later than Friday, February 8,
      2002, 5 p.m. EST. Electronic letters of recommendation should be
      submitted as soon as possible after the application is submitted,
                        ideally by February 19, 2002.

                            Evaluation Criteria:
   Applicants will be judged on evidence of (1) interest in and commitment
             to the humanities, and (2) ability to communicate.

                                Notification:
   All applicants will be notified of the Endowment's decisions by Friday,
                               April 5, 2002.

                                 Inquiries:
                        Inquiries should be made to:

                             Mr. Russell Wyland
                    National Endowment for the Humanities
                  1100 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., room 318
                            Washington, DC 20506
                               rwyland@neh.gov
                         (202) 606-8391 (telephone)

     Endowment programs do not discriminate on the basis of race, color,
     national origin, sex, disability, or age. For further information,
    write to the Equal Employment Opportunity Officer, National Endowment
    for the Humanities, 1100 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C.
     20506. TDD NUMBER (FOR THE HEARING IMPAIRED ONLY) IS 202/606-8282.

                Online applications now being accepted here!
