http://umet-vets.dol.gov/faq/allfaq.htm

   Use Your Military Experience and Training UMET

   Vets Flag

Transitioning to Civilian Careers

Frequently Asked Questions

   [TEXT ONLY]
   UMET Home Page
   Civilian Careers
   Hiring Veterans
   Related Links
   Grequently asked questions
   DOL Home
   VETS Home

   What is credentialing?

   What kinds of requirements do I have to meet in order to become
   licensed or certified?

   How does licensure and/or certification affect transitioning
   servicemembers and veterans?

   Do all states have the same licensure requirements? If not, how does
   this affect my ability to become licensed?

   What are the typical steps that I must take to become licensed or
   certified?

   What can I do while in the military to prepare for civilian
   credentialing?

   What costs are associated with obtaining a license or certificate?

   What resources are available while I’m in the military to help me
   become credentialed?

   What resources are available once I leave the military to help me
   become credentialed?

   What kinds of documentation do credentialing boards need in order to
   verify my military training and experience?

   I have lost my records, how do I obtain copies?

   Does the civilian occupation I am seeking have a certification or
   licensure requirement?

   Is the credentialing board likely to accept my military training and
   experience?

                      [go_top_btn.gif] Top of Document

What is credentialing?

   The need to establish standards surrounding professional and technical
   competence for individuals practicing in certain fields has led to the
   establishment of credentialing bodies that develop uniform standards
   that must be met prior to entry into these fields. Credentialing is
   performed by a number of different organizations and may be required by
   law or at the discretion of the employer, or it may be obtained at the
   option of the individual. The two primary types of occupational
   credentialing that apply to individuals seeking civilian positions
   equivalent to enlisted military occupational specialties are licensure
   and certification.

     * Licensure - Occupational licensure is authorization by a
       governmental agency granted to an individual to practice within a
       specified occupation, provided certain standards defined in state
       or federal law or regulation are met. Licenses are granted by
       federal, state, and local government agencies and are typically
       mandatory.

     * Certification - Occupational certification is the process by which
       a non-governmental agency or association or private sector company
       grants recognition to an individual who has met certain
       predetermined qualifications, as specified by the certifying agency
       or association. Certification is typically an optional credential,
       although some state licensure boards may require that an individual
       become certified in order to become licensed. Employers may also
       require certification.

                      [go_top_btn.gif] Top of Document

What kinds of requirements do I have to meet in order to become licensed or
certified?

   In order to become licensed or certified, an individual may have to
   meet any number of requirements specified by the credentialing board.
   The credentialing boards typically have specific criteria related to:

     * exam scores;
     * amount and type of professional experience;
     * completion of an academic degree program; and
     * completion of training.

   In addition, for some credentials, the Boards may have requirements
   related to residency and how recently the training or experience took
   place.

   Many licenses or certificates require periodic renewal -- typically,
   every 1 to 3 years. There may be continuing education requirements or
   reexamination requirements associated with renewal.

                      [go_top_btn.gif] Top of Document

How does licensure and/or certification affect transitioning servicemembers
and veterans?

   Not all individuals leaving the military will need a license or
   certificate to obtain civilian employment. For those who do, the impact
   of licensure and certification requirements will vary depending on
   whether or not they obtain the credential while in the military and, if
   not, whether their military education, training, and experience qualify
   them for the civilian credential.

   Because, in recent years, the Department of Defense (DoD) and military
   services have increasingly incorporated civilian credentialing into
   their training programs, some individuals will leave the military with
   the credentials they need. (e.g., Emergency Medical Technicians in all
   services are required to obtain certification from the National
   Registry of Emergency Medical Technicians). Others may have a
   certification in the field, but not a license. These people are
   typically at an advantage over those with no credentials, because many
   times the certification and licensure requirements are similar, so it
   will be relatively easy for them to obtain a license. For individuals
   who have earned a civilian credential in the military, the transition
   to the civilian workforce is relatively seamless. However, not all
   individuals leaving the military will have the credentials they need to
   continue to practice in their occupational areas in the civilian
   workforce.

   Some individuals will leave the military with the education, training,
   or experience they need to become licensed or certified, but will lack
   the formal credential. For these individuals, obtaining the appropriate
   credential is simply an administrative process that would typically
   entail application, documentation of military training and experience,
   and possibly taking an exam. Others will have to supplement their
   military education or training or obtain additional experience in order
   to obtain the credential that will allow them to practice in the
   civilian world. These individuals may experience periods of
   unemployment or underemployment until they are able to get the
   education, training, or experience they need.

                                          [go_top_btn.gif] Top of Document

Do all states have the same licensure requirements? If not, how does this
affect my ability to become licensed?

   Requirements for occupational licenses vary by state. Not all states
   license the same occupations and for those that do, the requirements
   can differ substantially. If you hold a state license in one state but
   plan to relocate to another state, you need to find out whether or not
   that state requires a license for your occupation and, if so, whether
   it recognizes the license you have. Some states will give special
   consideration to individuals who already hold a license in another
   state. This can mean that the licensing board will: · Recognize
   licenses granted by other states as equivalent - (called
   "reciprocity"); · Issue a license based on the individual having met
   similar requirements out-of-state (called "endorsement" or "license by
   credentials"); or · Credit equivalent out-of-state training, education,
   and examinations. If a state recognizes another state's license (i.e.,
   grants reciprocity), you may still need to take an exam or pay a fee.
   Check with the state licensing board to find out more about the
   specific requirements. If you do not hold a state license at all, you
   need to find out whether the state you plan to relocate to has a
   licensure requirement and, if so, what you have to do to meet the
   requirements for occupational licensure. Detailed information on how to
   do this is provided below.

                      [go_top_btn.gif] Top of Document

What are the typical steps that I must take to become licensed or certified?

   Step 1:

     Determine if the civilian equivalent of your military occupational
     specialty is licensed and/or certified and by whom. Because
     certification is typically an optional credential, if certification
     is the only credential applicable to your occupation, you may want
     to assess how necessary or helpful it will be to obtain the
     credential in order to obtain the type of job you are seeking.

   Step 2:

     Contact the credentialing board(s) to request the licensure and/or
     certification requirements and an application form. Find out whether
     an exam is involved and, if so, whether the credentialing board has
     any exam preparation materials available.

   Step 3:

     Review credentialing requirements to determine whether the military
     training or experience you have obtained is accepted by the Board
     and to determine what additional steps, if any, you will have to
     take to become licensed and/or certified.

   Step 3(a):

     This website provides, for selected occupations, information on
     whether or not military training and experience are likely to be
     accepted by civilian credentialing boards. For information on
     Calendar of National Certification Programs, visit our Meeting
     Civilian Credentialing Requirements page to determine whether this
     information is available for the occupation that you are interested
     in.

   Step 3(b):

     If the Board does not explicitly recognize military training and
     experience in its written requirements, it may be necessary to
     contact the Board directly. If the Board representative indicates
     that military training and experience are not automatically
     recognized, find out whether there is a review process that would
     allow the Board to conduct an individual assessment of your military
     training and experience.

   Step 4:

     If necessary, obtain additional training and/or experience to
     qualify for licensure and/or certification.

   Step 5:

     Follow Board application procedures to obtain credential. This may
     include such things as:

     * Submitting an application;
     * Submitting documentation of military training and experience; and
     * Taking an exam.

     This process typically will also require payment of application
     and/or exam fees (see below).

                      [go_top_btn.gif] Top of Document

What can I do while in the military to prepare for civilian credentialing?

   Preparing for civilian credentialing while in the military can ease
   your eventual transition to the civilian workforce. It is best to
   consider potential credentialing requirements early in your military
   career in case it is necessary to take additional training or to take
   special steps to document your experience.

   The first thing to do is to determine whether a civilian license or
   certification is required for the civilian counterpart to your military
   occupational specialty. If it is, then you need to determine whether
   the military requires or encourages you to obtain the credential while
   in the military. If it does, then you will have less difficulty when,
   and if, you choose to leave the military and enter the civilian
   workforce – assuming you remain in the same occupational specialty.
   However, you should make sure that you keep your credential current and
   renew it, if necessary, during your military career.

   If the military does not require you to obtain the credential while in
   the military, then you should consider whether or not you want to
   obtain the credential on your own during your military service. Some of
   the factors you might consider in making this decision include:

     * What are my prospects of obtaining civilian employment without the
       credential? Remember licensure is typically mandatory, while
       certification is usually optional.
     * What kind of delays in obtaining civilian employment might I face
       if I wait until after I leave the military to obtain the
       credential?
     * What will obtaining the credential while in the military entail and
       will I be able to fulfill the requirements while carrying out my
       duties?
     * What costs are associated with the credential and will the military
       subsidize any of these? (See below.)
     * Will I need to renew my license or certification during military
       service and, if so, what is entailed?

                      [go_top_btn.gif] Top of Document

What costs are associated with obtaining a license or certificate?

   Some of the costs typically associated with obtaining a license or
   certificate include:

     * Application Fees - Typically range from $20 to $200;
     * Exam Fees - Typically range from $20 to $200.
     * Renewal Fees - Usually renewal fees are less than application fees
       and range from $10 to $150. (Typically required every 1 to 3
       years.)
     * Obtaining additional training, if necessary - Can vary widely
       depending on the type and amount of training required.

   (Note: These fees are typical ranges, some may be higher and some
   lower. In addition, the fees are for civilian occupations equivalent to
   enlisted occupational specialties. Some of the fees associated with the
   civilian equivalents for officers (e.g., physicians, lawyers) are much
   higher.)

                      [go_top_btn.gif] Top of Document

What resources are available while I’m in the military to help me become
credentialed?

   The types of resources available while in the military include
   financial resources, educational opportunities, and
   testing/credentialing opportunities. These include:

     * Defense Activity for Nontraditional Education Support (DANTES) -
       DANTES administers a number of inter-service programs related to
       nontraditional education. Included are the following:
          + Credentialing Program - This program enables servicemembers to
            obtain credentials while in the military. DANTES has
            agreements with over 30 nationally recognized certification
            associations. In addition, DANTES has limited funding
            available to assist individuals seeking to obtain certain
            occupational licenses or certificates. Visit the Calendar of
            National Certification Programs for a list of certifications
            and a calendar of national certification tests. For more
            information, call DSN 922-1360 or CML (850) 452-1360.
          + Distance Learning Program - The DANTES Distance Learning
            program provides a wide range of nontraditional education
            programs critical for Service members who need alternatives to
            fulfill degree requirements when classroom courses are
            unavailable or when work schedules or duty locations do not
            permit class attendance. For more information, send an e-mail
            to dstlearn@voled.doded.mil, phone: (850) 452-1085, DSN
            922-1085, or FAX: 922-1161.
     *
       Uniform Tuition Assistance (TA) Program - DOD Directive 1322.8,
       Voluntary Education Programs for Military Personnel, establishes
       that tuition assistance shall be provided for servicemembers and
       that the amount of support available to each servicemember shall be
       uniform across the Military Services. The TA program provides
       financial assistance for voluntary off-duty education programs in
       support of a servicemembers professional and personal
       self-development goals. To find out more about TA programs:
          + Marine Corps Tuition Assistance
          + Army Tuition Assistance
          + Navy Tuition Assistance
          + Air Force Tuition Assistance [TBD]
       To talk to an education counselor, contact your nearest education
       center - Directory of Education Centers
     * DOD’s Voluntary Education Program - The DOD Voluntary Education
       Program provides off-duty civilian high school,
       vocational-technical, undergraduate and graduate educational
       opportunities to U.S. military personnel worldwide. These services
       are provided through the respective Services and their local
       education centers.
          + Air Force Voluntary Education Program
          + Army Continuing Education Program
          + Marine Corps VolEd
          + Navy VolEd
          + Reserve Component VolEd

                      [go_top_btn.gif] Top of Document

What resources are available once I leave the military to help me become
credentialed?

   Currently, the financial resources available to help you become
   credentialed once you leave the military are limited primarily to
   assistance with the cost of additional training and/or education that
   might be required. Application, exam and renewal fees are not typically
   covered. You may, however, find that a prospective employer is willing
   to assist with credentialing costs. Visit our Model Programs page to
   find out about some model employer-sponsored credentialing programs.

   Some of the financial assistance programs that might help you pay for
   additional education or training include:

     * Department of Veterans’ Affairs Education Services - The VA’s
       Education Service administers a number of benefit programs,
       including:
          + Montgomery GI Bill Active Duty
          + Montgomery GI Bill - Selected Reserve
          + Veterans Education Assistance Program (VEAP)
       Their website includes information on these benefit programs, as
       well as documents and forms which will aid school officials,
       veterans and dependents. If you need additional assistance, you can
       call their toll-free number 1-888-GI-BILL-1 (1-888-442-4551) to
       speak with a Veterans Benefits Counselor.
     * VETS Employment and Training Programs - The Veterans’ Employment
       and Training Service (VETS) administers a number of employment and
       training programs for veterans, including job search and job
       placement services. VETS maintains a network of State Directors of
       Veterans' Employment and Training Service (DVETs). Veterans,
       employers, and others seeking additional information about any of
       the programs or laws administered by VETS' should contact their
       nearest VETS representative. Information may also be obtained
       through contact with VETS-funded Local Veterans Employment
       Representatives (LVERs) and Disabled Veterans Outreach Program
       specialists (DVOPs) at state employment service offices.

                      [go_top_btn.gif] Top of Document

What kinds of documentation do credentialing boards need in order to verify
my military training and experience?

   Credentialing bodies differ in the types of documentation that they
   require. Some credentialing bodies are familiar with military
   documentation and have explicit requirements for documentation of
   military education, training, and experience. Others may be unfamiliar
   with the types of available documentation. If the credentialing board
   is not familiar with the documentation available and has questions
   related to your military training or experience, let them know about of
   the types of documentation that you have. They may be more willing to
   consider your training and experience if they are aware of these
   documents.

   Some of the standard forms of official military documentation include:

     * Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD Form 214)
       - The DD-214 is a source of significant authoritative information
       used by civilian and governmental agencies to validate veteran
       eligibility for benefits. It is issued to every servicemember at
       time of discharge.
     * Verification of Military Experience and Training (VMET Form 2586) -
       The VMET Form 2586 is created from a servicemember’s automated
       records on file. It lists military job experience and training
       history, recommended college credit information, and civilian
       equivalent job titles. Transitioning servicemembers should
       automatically receive their verification documents no later than
       120 days prior to separation.

   In addition, servicemembers and veterans can also provide copies of
   their military transcripts which provide detailed documentation of the
   servicemember’s education, training, and experience.

     * American Council on Education (ACE) Registry Transcripts. These
       transcripts are currently available to individuals in the Army and
       should be available to individuals in the Navy and Marines at the
       end of 1999. The transcripts are:
          + Army ACE Registry Transcript System (AARTS) - a computerized
            transcript system that produces official transcripts for
            eligible soldiers upon request by combining a soldier's
            military education, training and experience with descriptions
            and credit recommendations developed by ACE. The transcript is
            available to those servicemembers who entered the service
            after 1981 and can be requested by active duty servicemembers
            through the local education center. The AARTS contains the
            following information:
               o current rank,
               o military status (active or inactive),
               o time in service,
               o current academic level completed,
               o additional skill identifiers (ASI) and skill
                 qualification identifiers (SQI),
               o formal military courses,
               o military occupational specialties (MOS) held,
               o standardized test scores, and
               o descriptions and credit recommendations developed by the
                 American Council on Education (ACE).
          +
            Sailor/Marine ACE Registry Transcript (SMART) - The Marine
            Corps and the Navy are working on a joint project to develop
            an education transcript to document military education and
            training. Like the AARTS, this transcript will be endorsed by
            American Council on Education. ACE publishes the Guide to the
            Evaluation of Educational Experiences in the Armed Services,
            the most widely accepted reference for college credit
            recommendations for service schools and experience.
            Transcripts for Marines and Sailors are currently undergoing
            validation. Upon certification by ACE of the transcripts
            validity, all Marines, active duty and reserve, will be able
            to request a copy at their local education center.
     * Community College of the Air Force (CCAF) Transcripts - The CCAF
       also provides a transcript that documents servicemembers’ education
       and training. CCAF transcripts are free. Transcript requests can be
       sent to:

     CCAF/RRR
     130 West Maxwell Blvd
     Maxwell AFB AL 36112-6613

     Questions may be directed to (334) 953-2794 (DSN 493-2794) or can be
     e-mailed to the CCAF’s Registrar’s Office
     registrar.ccaf@maxwell.af.mil

                      [go_top_btn.gif] Top of Document

I have lost my records, how do I obtain copies?

   Veterans who have lost copies of their records and need to obtain new
   ones, can request them from:

     National Personnel Records Center
     9700 Page Blvd.
     St. Louis, MO 63132
     Phone: (314) 538-4243

                      [go_top_btn.gif] Top of Document

Does the civilian occupation I am seeking have a certification or licensure
requirement?

   To determine whether or not the occupation you are seeking has a
   certification or licensure requirement, visit our Meeting Civilian
   Credentialing Requirements page.

                      [go_top_btn.gif] Top of Document

Is the credentialing board likely to accept my military training and
experience?

   Whether or not a credentialing board accepts your military training and
   experience depends on the board’s familiarity with military training
   and experience and how comparable it is to recognized civilian forms.
   In general, there are three possible scenarios for recognition of
   military training and experience. The board:
     * May explicitly recognize military training and experience and will
       give complete or partial credit.
     * May not explicitly recognize military training and experience, but
       will consider it upon request and will evaluate it for
       comparability.
     * May refuse or be unable to recognize any types of training or
       experience other than the traditional, civilian forms or those
       specified in law or regulation.

     Last Updated:
     July 10, 2000

   Line

   Return to DOL Home DOL Home Page | Return to VETS Home VETS Home Page |
   Return to UMET Home Page UMET Home Page| Return to top of document Top
   of Document
