http://archive.nlm.nih.gov/staff/students2001.php

   Skip navigation
   National Library of Medicine, HTTP://www.nlm.nih.gov Communications
   Engineering Branch Title Lister Hill National Center for Biomedical
   Communications, HTTP://www.lhncbc.nlm.nih.gov/

   CEB Home
   Conferences
   Staff
   2001 Students
   Image Processing
   CEB Projects
   Repositories
   Publications
   NHANES
   Site Map

CEB 2001 Students

   Kathy Hosseini

   Kathy Hosseini
   University of Maryland, University College
   Field of Study: Computer and Information Science
   Anticipated Graduation Date: December 2002
   I have a student position at National Library of Medicine and I am
   working with Dr. Hauser to improve the C++ coding on the MARS database
   in order to make it more useful. Although I have just started, I expect
   to learn a lot in this project which involves C++ Programming along
   with SQL. I am also working under the supervision of Mr. Glenn Ford to
   organize and categorize MARS journals and do some C++ programming in
   order to make the journals more readable. I hope to get a lot of
   experience working with the wonderful people in NLM.
   Daniel Krainak

   Daniel Krainak
   See Daniel's presentation at NIH Poster Day 2001. College: The Catholic
   University of America
   Field of study: Biomedical Engineering
   Graduation date: May 2002
   Hometown: Eldersburg, MD
   At CEB, I work under the direction of Rodney Long to develop a
   prototype image retrieval system for spine x-ray images. I program in
   the Matlab 6.0 environment, developing a graphical user interface for
   use the the spine x-ray database. We are combining health survey data
   with image-based information to create a more in depth mechanism for
   searching through a large database of images. I have developed in many
   areas during my stay at CEB, including Matlab, image processing,
   query-by-example, database skills, and overall researching skills.
   Thanks for everyone who helped make this summer a wonderful experience
   especially Rodney Long, George Thoma, and the CEB as well as Dr. Lutz
   and the BESIP (Biomedical Engineering Summer Internship Program)
   affliates.
   Jonathan Schlaifer

   Jonathan Schlaifer
   See Jonathan's presentation at NIH Poster Day 2001. Hi! I am a summer
   student intern, concluding my second year of work here at the CEB. I am
   a senior Computer Science concentrator at Harvard University. My goal
   this summer was to support the MARS project by trying to provide a way
   to improve the efficiency of correcting OCR affiliations. I did this
   through the CARTEL (Catalyzing Affiliation Repair Through Electonic
   Lookup), where I would use an OCRed author name to search into a
   database of past MARS data. My task was then to determine which of the
   affiliations returned were relevant. I did this with the
   AFFFRONT(Affiliation Fixer For Repairing Originally Not-Quite-Perfect
   Text) algorithm. My result was that I built a DLL to package this
   algorithm, and constructed a utility to update the database so that it
   can be kept current. It's been a challenge and great fun!
   Karen Steely

   Karen Steely
   I am a year-round student employee earning credit towards a degree in
   computer studies at University of Maryland University College. I work
   on a very visible project: the CEB Web site. I design and build pages
   that adhere to Federal regulations but I have plenty of room for
   creativity. The great thing about this job is that I can learn and
   practice everything from design to databases to programming languages.
   When I'm not working on the Web site, my projects include helping to
   build a video conferencing unit and using a digital camera to record
   CEB events.
   Scott Straughan

   Scott Straughan
   Hello, I am a student employee at the National Library of Medicine
   working as a programmer. I am a senior at University of Maryland
   University College majoring in Computer and Information Science. This
   year I have been working on the MARS project with Dr. Susan Hauser to
   improve the lexicon system. This project allows me to practice using
   C++ to connect to a database. My latest project that I recently started
   work on is a browser for the WebMARS data. I have had a chance to gain
   knowledge working with C++ and SQL. I already have learned a lot
   working here and it will be great help when I graduate.
   Photo of Smitha Viswanathan

   Smitha Viswanathan
   Jonathan, Dr. Thoma, and Smitha I'm a student at the University of
   Maryland, Baltimore County, seeking a BS in Computer Science. My work
   includes estimating geometric statistics of titles, authors, abstracts,
   etc. of different journals, so that they can be uploaded onto the
   MEDLINE database.
   Eugene Wu

   Eugene Wu
   Unlike my co-workers, I will be graduating from high school this coming
   year. I attend Walt Whitman High School, and I'm planning to pursue
   engineering or computer science in college. This summer, I'm working
   with Dr. Walker to expand the capabilities of the DocMorph server to
   include a newly developed image file type, DjVu. I am programming a
   windows DLL that will allow the DocMorph website to process DjVu files.
   As a follow-up, I'll also be conducting an evaluation to determine the
   relative effectiveness of DjVu compared to conventional methods. I'm
   getting a lot of experience and practice working with Visual C++, and
   I'm also learning a lot about DjVu.
       Return to top of page

   CEB Home | Image Processing | CEB Projects | Repositories
   Publications | NHANES | Site Map | NLM Accessibility | Need a plug-in?

   URL: http://archive.nlm.nih.gov/staff/students2001.php
   Updated January 18, 2002
   Send questions or comments about this site to
   webmaster@archive.nlm.nih.gov
