http://www.nrel.gov/hot-stuff/press/3601-awards.html

   NREL home

     NREL Research Teams Win Three R&D 100 Awards

     Golden, Colo., Oct. 4, 2001 - Since 1982, the U.S. Department of
     Energy's National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) has won 28 R&D 100
     awards in the annual competition for innovative technology sponsored by
     R&D Magazine. This year, three NREL research teams have brought that
     total number of awards to 31.

     The 2001 awards are for a solar cell that has shattered world
     efficiency records, an antenna that reconfigures itself to direct its
     power at selected subscribers and a battery charger capable of
     extending the cycle life of lead-acid batteries.

     The solar cell, called a "TJ" solar cell for "triple junction," is
     capable of record-breaking efficiency in converting sunlight to
     electricity and maintaining a high efficiency under great
     concentrations of solar energy. Recently, the TJ solar cell reached 34
     percent conversion efficiency under a concentration of 400 suns, the
     power of our sun concentrated by solar arrays.

     "The TJ solar cell is a very sophisticated yet manufacturable solar
     cell," Principal Scientist Jerry Olson said.

     Developed jointly with Spectrolab Inc., the TJ solar cell has the
     potential to produce enormous amounts of electric power for homes,
     businesses, industry, institutions and communities, competing well
     against conventional systems for generating electricity.

     The Dynamically Reconfigurable Wireless Networks (DRWiN) electronically
     scanning antenna is the world's first low-cost scanning antenna that
     enables higher quality and more reliable wireless service to a larger
     customer base within a given geographic area.

     "This technology, based on tunable dielectric materials, could
     revolutionize the way wireless electronic communications is
     accomplished, serving more customers at lower cost," NREL Project Team
     Leader David Ginley said. DRWiN is used to accurately, rapidly and
     inexpensively transmit and receive signals to and from stationary and
     moving targets.

     DRWiN can reconfigure itself from broad beam to narrow beam in order to
     direct information to selected subscribers, and then reconfigure back
     to broad beam to acquire new subscribers requesting service. This leads
     to the ability to serve more customers with higher quality data
     transfers. The antenna's performance directly translates to increased
     revenue for service providers.

     The award for the DRWiN electronically scanning antenna went to NREL
     and its R&D partners, Paratek Microwave Inc. and Russia's St.
     Petersburg State Electrotechnical University. Paratek has
     commercialized the technology.

     The current interrupt charging algorithm is a simple approach for
     recharging lead-acid batteries that extends the cycle life of the
     batteries by 300 to 400 percent. Lead-acid batteries used in electric
     vehicles have, until now, lasted only about 150 to 200 deep discharge
     cycles, primarily because the batteries have been charged using a
     constant current and voltage.

     In contrast, NREL and its partners, Recombination Technologies and
     Optima Batteries, devised a new and more efficient way to charge
     batteries. Their method involves applying a current to the battery for
     five seconds to overcharge the battery slightly, then interrupting the
     current for five seconds. This allows the battery to cool and avoid
     going into the oxygen recombination cycle, which leads to early failure
     of the negative battery plate due to oxidation of sulfuric acid into
     sulfate.

     "Our idea was to increase the cycle life of lead acid batteries to have
     less waste in our landfills," said Mechanical Design Engineer Matt
     Keyser. "By increasing the cycle life, consumers will use fewer
     batteries over time."

     Visit NREL online at www.nrel.gov.
     NR-3601
