http://www.fletc.gov/faq.htm

   Federal Law Enforcement Training Center

                                  [faq.gif]

                                  blue bar

          The topics covered in our frequently asked questions are:

     Bringing cars to the FLETC        Law Enforcement career information --
                                       employment and educational requirements
     Child care availability           Location of Glynco, GA
     Course schedules                  Patches, decals, and other collectibles
                                       pertaining to the FLETC
     Enrolling at the FLETC            Phones in dorm rooms
     Enrolling at the FLETC if you are
     not in a law enforcement position Training hours and night
                                       or week-end training
     E-mail access for students        Transcripts
     Internet access in the dorms      Uniforms, clothing, and other personal
                                       items needed during training

     Can I bring my car to the FLETC?

     The FLETC maintains a walking campus concept. Bus service is
     provided to and from the airports, to off center lodging
     accommodations, and to other special locations as needed. Cars
     cannot be driven to class. Cars are permitted, but parking on Center
     is limited and all student cars will remain at the lodging location
     until the end of the training day.

     To register a car at the FLETC, operators must provide a valid
     drivers license and proof of insurance upon entry to the Center.

     Is child care available?

     Child development services (an on-site child development center) is
     available for the children and grandchildren of permanent and
     detailed staff and instructors of the FLETC and on-site Partner
     Agencies.  Visit the Child Development web page for more
     information.

     How do I find out when a course will begin or how do I obtain a
     course schedule?

     Since the agency is the entity that enrolls a student, they are the
     only ones who know when they plan on sending a particular employee.
     Therefore, the FLETC course schedule would be of no benefit to an
     individual. You should check with your agency. Additionally, the
     course schedule is constantly changing as the FLETC adjusts the
     schedule to meet the needs of the agencies and to accommodate other
     scheduling requirements. Just because a course is scheduled, does
     not necessarily mean it will actually occur because of these last
     minute changes and requirements.

     How does an individual enroll at the FLETC?

     The FLETC does not select students for admission; that is done by
     the individual's agency.  Each agency has its own regulations and
     hiring criteria regarding training required.

     Once a person is selected by his or her agency to attend training at
     the FLETC, the agency actually accomplishes the enrollment and would
     notify the person of any enrollment requirements that may need to be
     completed.  Agencies reserve training "seats" ahead of time and they
     determine when a particular individual will be sent for training at
     the Center. Individuals do not enroll directly. In other words, to
     attend FLETC training programs, one must normally be employed in a
     law enforcement position and will be enrolled for training by the
     employer.

     Can I enroll at the FLETC if I am not in a law enforcement position?

     The FLETC was created to train federal law enforcement officers.
     There is an on-site office that represents State, Local, and
     International law enforcement personnel. Private sector students can
     be admitted if the admission criteria is satisfied and a Partner
     Agency sponsors the student. Appropriate documentation from the
     Partner Agency is forwarded to the Director of the Office of State,
     Local, and International training for his approval.

      Is e-mail and/or internet access available to students at the FLETC
     ?

     Yes.  In the main classroom building, there are 48 computers on-line
     upstairs and 12 computers on-line downstairs available to access
     personal e-mail & internet accounts.  We are hoping to double that
     number by the end of the fiscal year.

     You may also access your personal e-mail or Internet account  from
     those dorm rooms with phones.  To do so, you must have your own
     computer and you must be able to access your Internet Service
     Provider (ISP) either by a local (Brunswick, GA) phone number or by
     using a toll free number provided by the ISP.

     Another possible solution would be to use your personal telephone
     credit card toll free number to call your ISP, but this would be a
     long distance call and you would be responsible for paying for the
     charges (it would be your own telephone card you would be using).

     I am interested in a career in law enforcement and would like
     information about the hiring and educational requirements.

     We cannot provide that information to you. We can only address the
     requirements for position vacancies at the FLETC. You should contact
     our Personnel Division for FLETC information (See their web page).
     If you are interested in working for any other law enforcement
     agency, then you should contact that agency directly.


     Where in the world is Glynco, GA?  I can't find it on a map!

     That's because it is not on the map.  Yes, Glynco is a real place,
     but it is not a recognized city.  We have our own zip code (31524)
     but it often does not show up in zip code directories.  Have no
     fear, we really are here!

     Glynco is located at Brunswick, GA.  For further details, please
     visit the About Us pages.


     How do I obtain patches, decals, and other collectibles pertaining
     to the FLETC?

     The FLETC has a convenience store which sells some clothing items,
     patches, decals, memorabilia and similar items.  If you are
     interested in such items please call the store direct at (912)
     265-2048.

     Do the dorm rooms have phones?

     Unfortunately we have not had the funding necessary to install
     phones in all the dorm rooms. However, many of them do have phones.
     Pay phones are located in the dorms and at other campus locations.
     For those rooms with phones, no out-going long distance calls are
     possible, but incoming long distance calls are permitted.

     Some students are housed in hotels and those rooms normally have
     phones. Hotel policies apply to the use of those phones.


     Does training occur from 8 to 5 and is there night or week-end
     training?

     We have several training schedules but the normal training day for
     basic and most advanced training programs is either 7:00 am to 4:00
     pm or from 9:00am to 6:00pm.   Practical exercises are often
     scheduled at night to offer the student benefits of darkness for
     actual situations. The normal training week is Monday through
     Friday, but training may be scheduled on Saturdays if necessary.
     PLEASE BE AWARE THAT CIRCUMSTANCES CAN ARISE WHICH WOULD CAUSE US TO
     DEVIATE FROM THE ABOVE STATED SCHEDULE.

     How do I obtain a copy of my transcript?

     To obtain a copy of your transcript, mail a letter to: Educational
     Aides, Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Building 262B, Room
     T-15, Glynco, GA, 31524.  In your letter you should provide your
     full name, social security number, class number or name of the
     program attended, and dates of attendance if you know them.  Make
     sure you sign the letter and include a photo copy of any picture ID
     which also has your signature on it.  Also, include your day time
     phone number in the event we have questions and need to contact
     you.

     Please include the your address or the name and address of the
     educational institution, business, or agency where you want the
     transcript sent.


     What uniforms or clothes and other personal items should I bring?

     A Student Information Bulletin is published periodically and your
     agency should provide you a copy.  It is also suggested you visit
     our table of contents and visit those pages of interest to you.


                                   blue bar


                             [USEMAP:1bottom.gif]

               This page was last updated on November 2, 2001.
