http://exportit.ita.doc.gov/ocbe/ocbehome.nsf/e7445254234489d885256547004dddd5/f8db7f2f2dd0c344852568db0070155e/$FILE/ExportITIndia.PDF

   AN OVERVIEW OF INDIA'S INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY MARKET EXPORTIT INDIA
   U.S. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE International Trade Administration Trade
   Development Information Technology Industries Office of Information
   Technologies February 2001 Office of Information Technologies, USDOC,
   February 2001 This report was prepared by Joyce Watson, International
   Trade Specialist, Office of Information Technologies, Information
   Technology Industries, Trade Development, International Trade
   Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, Washington, D.C. Data
   provided in this report was collected from a variety of published
   sources. Valuable comments were received from Timothy Miles, Office of
   Information Technologies, Information Technology Industries. The Office
   of Electronic Commerce, Information Technology Industries; and the
   Office of South Asia and Oceania, Market Access and Compliance also
   reviewed the report. Information on the Office of Information
   Technologies can be found at http://exportIT.ita.doc.gov. Office of
   Information Technologies, USDOC, February 2001 TABLE OF CONTENTS
   Executive Summary Chapter 1: Overview of India's Information Technology
   Market 1 Chapter 2: Market Opportunities and Market Entry Strategies 16
   Chapter 3: The Role of the U.S. Department of Commerce 20 Appendix *
   Selected IT Trade Events . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26 * India's Foreign
   Commercial Service Offices . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . 28 * Trade Associations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29 *
   Chambers of Commerce . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 * References . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
   . . . . . . . . . . .. .32 Office of Information Technologies, USDOC,
   February 2001 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY The Indian market for information
   technology (IT) products and services is poised to expand over the next
   few years. India's national goal is to make it a global IT power and
   one of the largest generators and exporters of software in the world by
   2008. With this new focus on IT, the Government of India is creating a
   supportive framework to facilitate this growth. The creation of a
   National Task Force on Information Technology and Software Development,
   a new Ministry of Information Technology, and the passage of the
   Information Technology Bill to define and regulate transactions
   involving electronic trade and commerce support this effort. In
   addition, efforts to institute more relaxed trade policies and
   liberalization in investments must continue to set the foundation for
   technological advancement and international competitiveness. The Indian
   IT market reached $3 billion in 1999 and is expected to grow to nearly
   $7 billion by 2002, according to the International Data Corporation.
   The computer systems and peripheral equipment sector is one of the
   primary growth drivers of the Indian IT market. Growing recognition of
   the importance of IT, particularly the Internet and electronic commerce
   (e- commerce) further stimulate demand. But given India's inadequate IT
   infrastructure, low and unequal distribution of income, and many rural
   communities, creative ways must be considered to make IT available on a
   wide-scale basis. To help foster market growth, the U.S. and Indian
   Government agreed in October 2000 to launch an Information Technology
   Initiative (ITI). The ITI should increase cooperation between U.S. and
   Indian public and private sectors to promote the use of IT and
   e-commerce. Plans include joint efforts to organize e-commerce
   seminars, video conferences, and trade delegations. India's commitment
   toward IT should create many opportunities for U.S. IT companies
   through investments, joint ventures and export/import trade. Business
   sectors with the best prospects include computer software and services,
   telecommunications services and equipment, and computers and peripheral
   equipment. However, the Indian market also holds many challenges for
   small-to medium-sized companies. Understanding local customs and
   business practices may require partnerships with local firms, or
   relationships with larger multinational firms. In some cases, local
   agents or distributors may be sufficient. Interested companies should
   contact the U.S. Department of Commerce for information on local
   markets and suggestions on developing market entry strategies. Office
   of Information Technologies, USDOC, February 2001 CHAPTER 1:
   INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY IN INDIA The Indian market for information
   technology policies and competition to accomplish this (IT) products
   and services is poised to goal. expand over the next few years. Both
   the government and the private sector have A new Ministry of
   Information Technology increased their use of computers and a surge
   (MIT) was established in 1999, and the GOI of interest in the Internet
   and electronic has since formed a cabinet committee on IT. commerce is
   fueling market growth. The IT The MIT has responsibilities for IT
   policy, market (computers, packaged software and the development of
   electronics, all matters computer services) in India totaled $3 billion
   concerning computer-based information in 1999 and is expected to grow
   to nearly $7 technology products and software, promotion billion by
   2002, according to the of the Internet, e-commerce, IT education,
   International Data Corporation. and the National Informatics Center. To
   enhance the development of its IT sector, The Information Technology
   Bill the Government of India (GOI) created a The GOI has resolved to
   make India a global National Task Force on Information superpower in
   the area of information Technology and Software Development in
   technology. To accomplish this goal, May 1998. The task force has
   formulated the revisions and additions are being made to draft of the
   National Informatics Policy. Its existing policies and procedures for
   action plans recommend strategies to use IT removing bottlenecks that
   restrict trade, in all areas of the national economy, to investment and
   industry growth. Supported by accelerate the flow of investment into
   the IT these new policy initiatives, the Indian sector, and to increase
   Indian exports of IT Parliament passed the Information products and
   services by 2008. The July Technology Bill 2000 to define and regulate
   1998 plan set a target goal for $50 billion in transactions involving
   electronic trade and annual exports of IT software and services
   commerce. The Bill provides a legal and an acceleration in the rate of
   personal framework to eliminate barriers resulting computer (PC)
   penetration in the country from uncertainties over computer-generated
   from the 1998 level of one per 500 to one per documents, writing and
   signature 50 people, along with a universal access to requirements, and
   promotes the development Internet and the development of of the legal
   and business infrastructure extranets/intranets by the year 2008.
   necessary to implement electronic commerce. Objectives in the area of
   telecommunications Penalties for computer crimes, such as include the
   acceleration of basic unauthorized access to computer networks
   infrastructure development to allow the and databases, introducing
   computer viruses establishment of nationwide fiber optic, or causing
   disruption or satellite, and wireless communications networks and to
   promote more liberal 1 Office of Information Technologies, USDOC,
   February 2001 damage to computer systems, copying of reductions and
   elimination of non-tariff software, electronic forgery have also been
   barriers. The outlook for further trade included in this Bill.
   liberalization is mixed since India has agreed to eliminate
   quantitative restrictions on Trade Policy imports of about 1,420
   consumer goods by India embarked on a series of economic April 2001 to
   meet its WTO commitments. reforms in 1991 in reaction to a foreign On
   the other hand, the government has exchange crisis. Those reforms have
   included imposed additional import duties of 5 percent changes in
   foreign investment rules, on most products plus a surcharge of 10
   reductions in tariffs and other trade barriers, percent over the past
   two years. U.S. exports reform of the financial sector, and of all
   commodities to India reached $3.4 adjustments in government monetary
   and billion in 2000, while U.S. imports totaled fiscal policies. While
   foreign direct $10.7 billion. As a result, the U.S. trade investment
   flows have risen since reforms deficit with India reached $7.3 billion.
   U.S. began, India's economic growth is exports of computer equipment
   continued to constrained by inadequate infrastructure, show strong
   growth in 2000, rising nearly 66 cumbersome bureaucratic procedures,
   and percent to $226 million, causing the U.S. high interest rates.
   computer trade surplus with India to nearly double (see Table 1).
   India's trade has increased significantly since1991, largely as a
   result of staged tariff Table 1. U.S. - India Trade in Computer
   Products (millions U.S. dollars) U.S. Exports 1998 1999 Percent 2000
   Percent Growth Growth Computers 49.7 63.3 27.4 110.5 74.6 Peripheral
   equipment 49.6 73.0 47.2 115.3 57.9 Total 99.3 136.3 37.3 225.8 65.7
   U.S. Imports 1998 1999 Percent 2000 Percent Growth Growth Computers -
   0.9 - 1.1 22.2 Peripheral equipment 51.0 17.9 -64.9 10.2 -43.0 Total
   51.0 18.8 -63.1 11.3 -39.9 Trade Surplus 48.3 117.5 143.3 214.5 82.6
   Source: Compiled from statistics from the U.S. Department of Commerce
   Trade Agreements In March 1997, India officially joined as a 2 Office
   of Information Technologies, USDOC, February 2001 signatory the
   Information Technology U.S. India Ties Strengthening Agreement (ITA)
   and is committed to The U.S. and Indian Government agreed in eliminate
   all tariffs on ITA products by 2005. October 2000 to launch an
   Information In addition, the GOI budget for 1997-1998 Technology
   Initiative (ITI) that would eliminated duties on both systems and
   increase cooperation between the U.S. and application software. The GOI
   budget for Indian public and private sectors to promote 2000-2001 went
   further and reduced import the use of information technology and duties
   on a number of items used in the IT electronic commerce. An outgrowth
   of the sector (See Table 2). However, tariffs are U.S.-India Commercial
   Dialogue, the still high enough to present serious initiative was
   developed in close impediments to U.S. trade. India also consultation
   with the business communities in maintains a variety of additional or
   both countries. As a result, the two countervailing duties, raising
   effective tariff governments agreed to a joint e-commerce rates well
   above the tariff ceiling for some program. This will include joint
   efforts to products. For example, the current tariff on organize
   e-commerce seminars for small computers includes a basic tariff rate of
   15 business, video conferences between key percent, but with additional
   special duties U.S. and Indian government and private and surcharges,
   the effective rate is nearly 39 sector representatives, and an
   IT/telecom percent. matchmaker trade delegation. Plans include working
   with the U.S.-India Business Table 2. GOI Custom Duty Reductions on
   Selected IT Products 1999 2000 Product From To (percent) (percent)
   Computers 20 15 Motherboards 20 15 Floppy diskettes 20 15 Semiconductor
   components 15 5 Microprocessors 5 0 Memory storage devices 5 0 CD ROMs
   5 0 Integrated circuits and micro assemblies 5 0 Cathode ray tubes for
   monitors 5 0 Source: Union Budget 2000-2001, Ministry of Finance,
   Government of India Council (USIBC) on certain events by Knowledge
   Trade Initiative. collaborating on its broader Indo-U.S. 3 Office of
   Information Technologies, USDOC, February 2001 Alliances between the
   USIBC and the education. Large sectors, but with low IT Federation of
   Indian Chamber of Commerce penetration, such as textiles and healthcare
   and Industry (its Indian counterpart) have are being encouraged by the
   government and agreed to pursue initiatives to expand the private
   sector to adopt IT. bilateral IT trade. One such agreement is the
   establishment of a Indo-U.S. Science and The average annual growth of
   PC demand by Technology Forum to encourage and promote unit volume
   exceeded 40 percent from 1996 the interaction of government, academia,
   and to 1999. Despite this significant growth, only industry in science
   and technology related a small percentage of India's one billion areas.
   The Forum will promote research and population own PCs. In 1998-99, the
   PC development, the transfer of technology, the penetration rate was
   only 3 per one thousand creation of a comprehensive electronic people.
   reference source for the exchange, and dissemination of information on
   Indo-U.S. On a regional basis, India's computer market science and
   technology cooperation. can be broken down into four geographic
   regions: the west, centered on Mumbai; the Similarly, a renewed
   commitment in March north, centered on New Delhi; the east, 2000
   between the U.S. and India to engage in centered on Calcutta; and the
   south, centered economic and commercial discussions on Bangalore.
   Mumbai is India's financial resulted in the bilateral economic
   dialogue, capital and accounted for 35 percent of its which is part of
   the broader "institutional PC sales in 1997. The high tech centers of
   dialogue." The forum consists of three Chennai and Bangalore in the
   south, and the cabinet-level dialogues on finance and northern region
   each accounted for 25 economics, trade, and commerce. The percent of PC
   sales. The eastern region, with commercial dialogue has a
   public/private agriculture and mining as primary industries, sector
   format. had lower PC sales of about 15 percent of the total. Skoch
   Consultancy revealed in its Computer Hardware recent Demographic
   Analysis of the Indian The computer systems and peripheral PC Market
   that smaller cities and towns are equipment sector is one of the
   primary accounting for an increasing share of PC growth drivers of the
   Indian IT market. sales. According to the survey, 47 percent of
   Personal computers make up the bulk of the the PCs sales in 1999 were
   purchased in non- computer market, and untapped end-user metropolitan
   cities, compared with 20 segments such as the small office/small
   percent in 1997. The shift is an indication of business and the home
   markets will continue increased computer awareness and more to offer
   opportunities for growth. widespread usage within the Indian
   population. The government has traditionally been recognized as a key
   driver of domestic IT demand in India, with spending of about 28
   percent of the total. Other major sectors using computers and
   peripheral equipment include insurance, financial institutions, energy,
   defense, ports, customs, telecom and 4 Office of Information
   Technologies, USDOC, February 2001 Indian desktop PC sales showed
   healthy options, bundling with Internet service, and growth in 1998,
   rising 28 percent over 1997 even free PCs for Internet access are among
   to exceed 1 million units for the first time, the new methods suggested
   to achieve this according to the Manufacturers Association goal. of
   Information Technology (MAIT) (see Figure 1.) Sales continued to be
   robust in In the computer peripherals sub-sector, 1999, rising 37
   percent to 1.4 million units. printer sales rose 24 percent to 539,910
   Intel has captured the microprocessor market units in 1999. Non-impact
   laser units with its Pentium II, Pentium III and Celeron increased 19
   percent, inkjet printers were up brands, which are installed in about
   80 by 23 percent and dot matrix printers rose 26 percent of the PC
   units. The server market percent. Keyboards and monitors both grew 58
   percent to 56,760 units, a reflection registered sales of about 1.5
   million units, of the growing interest in networking and the and
   uninterruptible power supplies (UPS) Internet. Portable computer sales
   exceeded rose 60 percent to 288,000 units (see 41,000 units in 1999, up
   82 percent over the Figure 2). 22,925 unit level in 1998. Figure 2
   Figure 1 Source: India IT Hardware Industry, Source: India IT Hardware
   Industry, IMI 000723, US&FCS IMI 000723, US&FCS The Indian computer
   industry has over 135 To achieve higher PC penetration rates, major
   hardware suppliers supported by over vendors will have to experiment
   with and 800 ancillary units and small vendors embrace more innovative
   marketing engaged in subassemblies and equipment techniques, since the
   purchase of a PC is manufacturing. India's strength lies in its ranked
   as 12th in importance after other ability to design and integrate
   computers durables such as a car and an air conditioner, rather than
   manufacture components. Many according to the Indian Market Research
   Bureau (IMRB). Lower PC prices, financing 5 Office of Information
   Technologies, USDOC, February 2001 multinational computer companies
   have a companies employed between 250,000 and strong presence in India.
   These include 280,000 software engineers, an increase of Compaq, Dell,
   IBM, Hewlett Packard, NEC, about 25 percent from the previous year,
   Toshiba, and AT&T. making the software industry among the fastest
   growing sectors in the Indian Software economy. Revenues of the
   software industry India is one of the world's leading offshore are
   expected to increase 46 percent to $5.7 software development centers
   with the billion in 1999-2000. majority of industry revenues coming
   from consulting services, projects and turnkey India's domestic
   software market has shown assignments. In 1998-99, about 20 percent of
   steady growth from 1995-96 to 1998-99, the U.S. Fortune 1000 companies
   outsourced rising at an annual average growth rate of 36 their custom
   software requirements to India. percent to $1.2 billion. Plans for
   increased With a steady annual average growth rate of government
   spending on IT, a zero import 50 percent between 1996-1999, India's
   duty on software, and new purchasing software industry has reached $3.9
   billion in channels through the Internet should have a sales, according
   to the National Association positive effect on the domestic market. of
   Software and Service Companies Major end use markets include banking,
   (Nasscom) (see Figure 3). In addition, in- government, insurance, and
   the small house development by many large office/home office segments.
   Sales are commercial/corporate end-users was projected to total about
   $1.7 billion in 1999- estimated at $700 million for 1998-99. 2000.
   However, strict enforcement of Demand for Y2K remediation boosted
   copyright laws and improvements to the India's software industry
   revenues and also telecommunications infrastructure are needed
   highlighted its status as a leading software to sustain market growth.
   and services supplier. Recent data from the Carnegie Mellon University
   shows that India (and U.S.-owned subsidiaries located there) accounts
   for over 50 percent of the world's software development facilities
   rated at Level 5, the highest level on its 1 to 5 maturity scale.1
   While highly skilled in code programing, software suppliers are
   incorporating other software applications such as Internet and
   e-commerce-related products and services into their product mix. In
   1999, industry sources estimated that 1Process maturity scale
   established by the Software Engineering Institute (SEI) at Carnegie
   Mellon University. Updated June 30, 2000. 6 Office of Information
   Technologies, USDOC, February 2001 Figure 3. Source: Nasscom
   Intellectual Property Rights under Special 301 was revoked and India
   Under pressure from its own domestic was placed on the "priority watch
   list" to be industry and the United States, India monitored closely for
   progress. strengthened its copyright law in May 1994, placing it on par
   with international practice. According to the International Planning
   and The law reflects the provisions of the Berne Research Corporation,
   India's software Convention on copyrights, to which India is a piracy
   rate has dropped modestly from 69 party. Under the "Special 301"
   provisions in percent in 1997 to 61 percent in 1999. U.S. trade law,
   USTR identifies those However, this translates into a $185 million
   countries that deny adequate and effective (1997) and $251 million
   (1999) loss to the protection for intellectual property rights.
   industry. Although this rate is high, India Countries with the most
   onerous practices are remains below other countries in the region
   designated as "priority foreign countries", with worse piracy rates,
   such as China, subject to section 301 investigations. Based Indonesia,
   and Vietnam. on its improved copyright protection, India's designation
   as a "priority foreign country" 7 Office of Information Technologies,
   USDOC, February 2001 Figure 4 Based on measures adopted by the National
   IT Task Force, which include increasing productivity and sustaining
   products with an ISO 9000 certification and SEI level 5 standards or
   equivalent in quality, India software exports are projected to increase
   at a rate of 60 percent to reach $6.3 billion in the year 2000-01. The
   Task Force has set a target of $50 billion in annual software and
   services exports by 2008. However, in order to sustain this level of
   growth, infrastructure assistance like that provided by the Software
   Technology Parks of India (STPI) is critical. The STPI provide
   facilities that include computers, high speed data communications
   links, Internet, teleconferencing and fax equipment, and backup power.
   Source: Nasscom Software Exports Internet India supplied $2.6 billion
   in software The GOI approval of a new Internet policy to exports, which
   represented more than 18 allow 100 percent foreign equity investment
   percent of world exports of customized for Internet Service Providers
   (ISPs) should software applications in 1998-99, according expand
   commercial Internet to Nasscom. The United States is the main access
   throughout India. The government market for Indian software, accounting
   for 61 had previously set a 49 percent maximum on percent of the export
   total (see Figure 4). equity investment in Indian ISPs. Another Europe
   followed as the second largest export major initiative freeing ISPs to
   set up their market, with 23 percent. Market own gateways for
   international connectivity opportunities have been expanding in Asia
   should further spur competition in this sector. and Latin America, and
   business prospects are also being explored in South Africa and Eastern
   European countries. The Government-owned international
   telecommunication service provider, Videsh India's overall share of the
   world software Sanchar Nigam Ltd (VSNL), established market remains
   low, estimated at less than 1 Internet service in 1995 and was the only
   percent, but the country has an advantage commercial ISP in the
   country. Service was over many other nations in software available only
   in select urban cities with development, services and exports. This
   150,000 subscribers, despite the large scale success is due to the fact
   that India possesses demand nationwide. The entry of private the
   world's second largest English-speaking Indian ISPs, like Mantra Online
   and Satyam scientific workforce. The availability of low Infoway has
   forced VSNL, the largest state- cost, talented programmers gives India
   a owned ISP, to become more competitive. competitive advantage when
   compared to the United States and Europe. 8 Office of Information
   Technologies, USDOC, February 2001 While it has a subscriber base of
   over learning more about local customs and the 300,000 customers, it is
   considering a 50 marketplace (see Table 3). percent reduction on the
   Internet tariff/dial-up access charges and the introduction of free
   Statistics for the number of Internet surfing at night beginning with a
   June 2000 subscribers and users vary by analysts, with subscriber
   promotion. VSNL retains its most estimates indicating that a small
   monopoly on Internet gateways, but 17 other minority of the population
   has access to the ISPs have received approval to open their Internet in
   India. Estimates range from the own gateways which could force VSNL to
   International Data Corporation's 500,000 to reduce fees even further.
   Of the 300 ISP Nasscom 800,000 subscribers, both for 1999. licenses
   issued by the GOI, 100 have started All estimates, however, indicate
   that India operations. has less than a 1 percent Internet penetration
   rate. Internet use is more than three times the Also in response to
   India's new Internet subscriber rate, with estimates between 1.4
   policies, U.S. Internet companies such as million and 2.6 million, due
   to the AltaVista, Lycos and Yahoo launched commonplace sharing of
   subscriber accounts. country-specific sites in India in the summer
   Approximately 85 percent of Internet use of 1999. America Online is
   expected to takes place in eight cities, with about 65 launch
   operations in 2001, and Microsoft is percent concentrated in testing an
   Indian version of MSN.com. Maharashtra, New Delhi and Mumbai. High
   Although the Indian Internet market is small, amounts of sharing occurs
   in places like U.S. portals are establishing themselves and Pune,
   Calcutta and Bangalore where a high proportion of people access the
   Internet Table 3. Recent U.S.-Based Portals In India Company Launch
   Date AltaVista July 2000 Search engine, index of Indian Web sites, free
   Web-based e-mail Lycos July 2000 Localized content, e-mail services MSN
   Testing Beta News and information with local content, Web- version
   based "Hotmail" Working with media companies to provide Yahoo June 2000
   content and news. Directory of English- language Web sites, local pages
   for 20 Indian cities Source: Company announcements, The Industry
   Standard, August 28, 2000 from educational institutions. Cyber cafes
   and kiosks also offer opportunities to access 9 Office of Information
   Technologies, USDOC, February 2001 the Internet. According to a Gartner
   Group fixed lines for Internet connection to survey, 60 percent of
   Indian users surf from competing ISPs. cyber cafes. However, rural
   India is virtually isolated from the worldwide web. Internet access via
   cable and using DSL Cost of Internet access, reported to be (digital
   subscriber line) is at the approximately $42 for 20 hours/month, or 8
   experimental stage and limited to a few percent of the average GDP per
   capita areas. However, given the extent of cable income, limits access
   by income level. infrastructure in India when compared to Internet
   usage, cable Internet access holds The number of Internet users
   worldwide is promise. constantly growing, but the top 15 countries
   account for more than 80 percent of total Bandwidth usage (see Table
   4). The growth rate among While Internet connectivity is growing in the
   more industrialized countries is expected India, growth is not only
   measured by an to flatten, while that of India is expected to increase
   in the number of users, web sites, or increase sharply. Although India
   has yet to customers, but also by an increase in demand make this list,
   some research analysts for bandwidth. As a result, major forecast that
   India could be second only to improvements to the country's inadequate
   IT China in terms of Internet usage in Asia in the infrastructure are
   needed. India's bandwidth2 future. However, this growth would be  the
   cyber superhighways on which data dependent on continued penetration of
   PCs travels  is lacking by international and improvements to the
   telecommunications standards and impedes India's progress in
   infrastructure. On a regional basis, India is reaching global
   standards. This lack of currently the fifth largest Internet user
   market bandwidth capacity will hinder the upsurge in Asia Pacific,
   after China, Korea, Australia in Internet usage. Nasscom estimates and
   Taiwan. revealed that the current 325 mega bytes per second (MBPS) of
   international bandwidth Telecommunication infrastructure is an
   available for Internet from India is far short important element in
   Internet growth. Until of demand since business applications and
   recently, Indian Internet users had to rely on dot com industries needs
   have soared to 5 slow connections via the telephone system. giga bytes
   (GB). Demand is projected to According to World Bank statistics, India
   grow to 10 GB by the end of 2000. In had 22 telephones per 1,000 people
   in 1998, comparison, China has an international and 104 per 1,000
   people in the larger cities, bandwidth of 55 GB and Japan 160 GB. a
   factor that limited Internet growth. Other contributing factors that
   slowed Internet growth are low installed base of computers, (3 per
   1,000 people), high computer prices, the high cost and tariffs
   associated with 2bandwidth - The speed and amount of data that can be
   transmitted in a fixed amount of Internet access, and delayed provision
   of time on telecommunication lines. For digital devices, the bandwidth
   is usually expressed in bits per second (bps) or bytes per second
   (BPS). 10 Office of Information Technologies, USDOC, February 2001
   Table 4. Top 15 Countries With the Most Internet Usage Year-End 2000
   (estimated) Rank Country Internet Users Share of Total (millions)
   (percent) 1 United States 135.7 36.2 2 Japan 26.9 7.2 3 Germany 19.1
   5.1 4 United Kingdom 17.9 4.8 5 China 15.8 4.2 6 Canada 15.2 4.0 7
   South Korea 14.8 4.0 8 Italy 11.6 3.1 9 Brazil 10.6 2.8 10 France 9.0
   2.4 11 Australia 8.1 2.2 12 Russia 6.6 1.8 13 Taiwan 6.5 1.7 14
   Netherlands 5.4 1.4 15 Spain 5.2 1.4 Other 66.5 17.7 World Total 374.9
   100 Source: eTForecasts , Computer Industry Almanac, Inc.
   Cyberatlas.internet.com 11 Office of Information Technologies, USDOC,
   February 2001 VSNL recently approved the formation of a infrastructure
   could benefit from more committee, Operation Bandwidth, to oversee
   resourceful ways to obtain Internet the country's demand for bandwidth.
   The connections. Broadband access via cable committee, which includes a
   mix of lines is an important avenue for Internet government and private
   industry growth because there are more televisions organizations, is
   working to acquire and cable connections in India than there are
   international capacity for leased lines and PCs (see Table 5.) Internet
   use ahead of demand. As a result, VSNL has started to acquire Internet
   Another innovative way of bringing the bandwidth on a large scale. For
   example, Internet more cheaply and quickly to India's 155 Mbps are
   being acquired from Mumbai rural population is through its railway and
   Chochin via Optical Fibre systems to the network as a conduit for
   communications U.S. east coast and west coast, respectively. cables.
   The ability to reuse the existing In addition, five bearers of 34/8
   Mbps are cable systems will avoid the time and cost of being acquired
   via satellite to provide an laying a new cable network. Development
   additional satellite capacity of 200 Mbps. plans include the addition
   of cyber café kiosks to stations along the track for use by These
   capacities were scheduled to be put in local people without their own
   computer place by fall of 2000 and would constitute an equipment. With
   railway stations about additional 510 Mbps of international every 8 km,
   the cost is estimated to be in the capacity. VSNL customers may be
   offered affordable range for local people. However, "bandwidth on
   demand" within a prescribed India's erratic electricity supply is an
   issue period for connections sought after October and back-up
   batteries, or solar panels would 2000 and will likely be provided with
   links add to the overall costs. up to 2 Mbps within 60 days. Higher
   speed links, up to 155 Mbps, should be provided E-mail booths are
   another interesting concept within 90 days. as way to bring Internet to
   thousands of people in India's rural areas. The booths, Additionally,
   Nasscom recommended, under complete with video cameras, will be the
   Operation Bandwidth initiative, that the capable of sending or
   receiving three-minute GOI allow private sector involvement to
   messages, including video image and voice, increase the Internet
   bandwidth in the through an e-mail account. country. One change would
   allow international leased lines to be connected to the public switch
   telephone network. Another recommendation is for a cut in the tariff
   for international connectivity. For example, the charge for a 64 Kbps
   link to India from the United States is about $5,000 per month, while
   the cost of 64 Kbps link from the United Kingdom to the United States
   is about $2,000. Regions with poor telecommunications 12 Office of
   Information Technologies, USDOC, February 2001 Table 5. Technology
   Penetration in India, China, and the United States, 1998 (number per
   thousand people) India China United States Telephone sets 69.0 272.0
   847.0 Cable subscribers 18.8 40.0 244.3 Telephone mainlines 22.0 70.0
   661.0 Mobile telephones 1.0 19.0 256.0 Personal computers 2.7 8.9 458.6
   Source: 2000 World Development Indicators, The World Bank Group
   Electronic Commerce The opportunity for e-commerce should Although
   India faces many obstacles before expand with the growth of Internet
   use. electronic commerce (e-commerce) becomes According to a 1999
   report by IDC, an important economic engine, both the e-commerce in
   India is rapidly emerging and government and private sector are has
   registered transactions worth $30 developing solutions to address some
   of million, with projections for $575 million by these limitations. One
   significant step was financial year 2002-3. Nasscom reports the May
   2000 approval of the IT Bill which more optimistic figures estimating
   should establish the legal and regulatory e-commerce transactions worth
   more than framework for e-commerce. The Bill paves $800 million in
   2000-01, up from about $100 the way for a system of electronic records,
   million in 1999, and projects growth to $2.5 electronic/digital
   signatures, payment billion by 2002 (see Table 6). gateways and
   certifying authority. The GOI also eased restrictions on foreign direct
   As shown in Table 6, business-to-business investments (FDI) in the
   e-commerce sector (B2B) transactions constitute the majority of by
   raising the limit from 49 percent to100 e-commerce transactions in
   India. More than percent. The FDI cap on e-commerce for one dozen B2B
   portals are currently in business-to-business (B2B) transactions was
   operation, with about 6,000 companies also removed with the condition
   that these listing goods through the sites. An important foreign
   companies, if listed on foreign stock element in determining success of
   B2B markets, would divest 26 percent of equity in portals is the
   ability to encourage clients to favor of Indian investors within five
   years. regularly use the site to conduct 13 Office of Information
   Technologies, USDOC, February 2001 Table 6. India: E-Commerce
   Transactions (in U.S. dollars millions) Year E-Commerce Transactions
   Business to Business Business to Consumer B2B B2C 2000-01 $814 million
   $744 million $70 million Source: Nasscom large volumes of business.
   Links between further complicated by India's complex remote offices to
   corporate headquarters and postal system and an uncertain regulatory
   manufacturing facilities with sales units are environment. becoming
   commonplace. The recent approval for 100 percent FDI in B2B E-banking
   efforts are hindered by weak inter- ventures should speed up the
   development in branch connectivity and inadequate this sector. Nasscom
   estimates B2B computerization. For example, the State transactions to
   be in the $700 million range Bank of India, the largest public sector
   for 2000-01. commercial bank has computerized only 22 percent, or less
   than 2,000, of its 8,982 Challenges still exist in the area of business
   branches. Automated teller machines at most to consumer (B2C)
   e-marketing. A survey public sector banks are restricted to a limited
   conducted by the Indian Market Research number of branches, and web
   sites provide Bureau revealed that only 26 percent of its only basic
   information on products and respondents were aware of the shopping
   services. However, a recent McKinsey possibilities available on the
   Internet. The survey reports that 27 percent of its survey Gartner
   Group also notes that only 2 percent respondents wanted access to on
   line of Indian Internet users have engaged in B2C financial services.
   e-commerce. Since the 2-5 percent commission paid by buyers and sellers
   listed The distinction of launching Internet banking on a site is the
   primary source of revenue, in India goes to ICICI Bank. It introduced
   its some Indian firms are looking at alternative Infinity Internet
   banking service in October ways to raise money, including listings on
   the 1997, using the BankAway software U.S. Nasdaq market. developed by
   Infosys, a domestic company. Citibank and HDFC Bank followed with their
   Another limiting factor in India's B2C e- Internet banking services in
   1999. Internet commerce sector is the relatively small banking permits
   foreign banks to widen their number of credit card holders in India
   only reach without opening additional branches, about 3 percent of the
   population. The lack an advantage because of tight government of secure
   on-line payment gateways and the regulations on branch expansion. need
   for uniform credit agencies also creates a variety of payment
   challenges. Meanwhile, Still, infrastructure costs of graduating to e-
   the distribution of on-line purchases could be banking are very high.
   Automation is needed 14 Office of Information Technologies, USDOC,
   February 2001 on front-end systems that interface with the rules cover
   e-commerce and that the customer, as well as the back-end systems.
   moratorium on e-commerce duties should be Investments in security
   software, Internet made permanent. At a December 2000 WTO banking
   software, and security hardware are General Council meeting, Indian
   also required. Some banks with experience representatives opposed some
   key principles in the use of technology are also exploring of the
   E-Commerce Work Program, including the use of the wireless application
   protocol recognition that e-commerce falls within the (WAP), which
   allows users to surf the scope of existing WTO rules and the Internet
   on their mobile telephones. establishment of an ad hoc task force on e-
   commerce within the WTO. Some Indian The development of e-banking will
   be industry representatives expressed fear of initially limited to a
   small number of strong losing business to foreign firms selling to and
   efficient banks that can compete Indian customers over the Internet.
   Other internationally and leverage e-banking in Indian companies are
   concerned that they such a way as to create their own one-stop do/will
   not have adequate access to the finance portals that link banking to e-
   Internet, and that e-commerce in India cannot commerce. But, given
   overall Internet thrive until the domestic banking, penetration rates,
   traditional branch banking telecommunications, and transportation is
   expected to co-exist with high tech bank sectors are improved.
   offerings. Statistics confirm the fact that the opportunity base for
   e-commerce exists in India. However, appropriate investments in effort
   and resources by vendors, industry players, and the government are
   necessary to successfully move the industry forward. The GOI through
   its IT Task Force aims to promote IT. Recent GOI initiatives clear the
   way for a more open playing field for foreign company participation.
   Furthermore, India regulators are opening national long distance
   telephone services to competition by private companies. This policy
   change would allow foreign investors to hold up to 49 percent of equity
   in companies offering nationwide long distance service. However, the
   growth in the IT and telecommunications sectors will be dependent on
   requirements such as access lines and national backbone connectivity.
   During the WTO Seattle Ministerial, Indian representatives voiced
   opposition to endorsing the position that existing WTO 15 Office of
   Information Technologies, USDOC, February 2001 CHAPTER 2: MARKET
   OPPORTUNITIES AND MARKET ENTRY STRATEGIES Best Prospects for U.S.
   Exporters year. The growth potential is not limited to the basic
   telephone services, but extends New opportunities for U.S. businesses
   across a wide range of value added services, continue to emerge in
   India's IT market. as well as services using the latest Deregulation
   and liberalization of the Indian technologies, including cellular,
   Internet, economy puts into place many features of a radio trunking,
   and global mobile personal market-driven system. This aspect opens up
   communication by satellite. new opportunities for foreign businesses.
   According to the FY 2001 Country (3) telecommunication equipment:
   India's Commercial Guide for India, prepared by the National
   Telecommunications Policies of the U.S. & FCS, the top four best
   prospect 1990's produced broad liberalization of the sectors are:
   sector by allowing private companies to manufacture telecom equipment,
   permitting (1) computer software and services: imports, and lowering of
   import tariffs. The Increased government and private sector Department
   of Telecommunication's 1997- spending on IT, new demand for Internet
   and 2007 plan estimates a demand requirement of IT-enabled services,
   are factors that approximately 64 million telephones, with contribute
   to the sector's growth. Over 158 about one-third to be provided by
   private new software products were launched by companies. The latest
   telecom policy targets foreign companies in the Indian domestic a
   telephone density of 15 per 100 people by market during the first half
   of 2000. The 2010, up from it's current penetration rate of most
   promising sub-sectors include: 2.5 per 100 persons. networking
   products, CAD/CAM software, financial accounting packages, enterprise
   (4) computers and peripheral equipment: resource planning packages,
   relational Growth in demand for PCs from both the database management
   systems, and government and the private sector, and the educational
   software. Together these sub- rising popularity of the Internet are
   major sectors accounted for about $6 billion factors diving the growth
   of India's IT in 2000. industry. About 45 percent of PC buyers are
   first-time buyers. In addition, the computer (2) telecommunication
   services: The peripheral sector grew by 59 percent in Government of
   India issued a new telecom 1999, led by increased sales of non-impact
   policy in 1999 and made several printers. The most promising
   sub-sectors announcements during the summer of 2000 to include, desktop
   PCs, notebook or portable further liberalize the market. The domestic
   computers, servers, printers, keyboards, and long distance market was
   opened to private monitors. sector participation on August 15, 2000 and
   the state monopoly on international Distribution Channels
   telecommunications services will end by Although India's rapidly
   growing population April 2002. India's international telecom presents
   limitless opportunity, many Indian traffic is growing at nearly 20
   percent per and foreign companies have discovered that 16 Office of
   Information Technologies, USDOC, February 2001 it is a mistake to offer
   global brands at global channels are now sold in India through direct
   prices, without any customization. Suitability channels. These more
   organized channels of and adaptation to Indian preferences and
   distribution and support are used for products conditions are perceived
   as significant such as computer hardware, software, and benefits by
   Indian consumers and an peripherals ranging from commodity products
   important factor to be taken into account to high-end IT equipment. The
   typical while designing a sales strategy for this distribution
   structure has been two-tiered country. Care should be given to
   developing with a distributor servicing dealers and an efficient
   distribution network because retailers. Many U.S. IT companies have a
   India is a market with poor infrastructure and strong presence in the
   Indian marketplace. logistics. In addition to the traditional selling
   While selling in the Indian market can be a techniques, the Internet is
   also gaining complicated and difficult experience for new importance as
   a selling method. As the entrants, this can be avoided if, at the
   outset, number of Internet users continues to the market opportunity is
   assessed accurately increase, the Indian e-tailing market will also and
   the capabilities of local competition are expand. Although e-tailing
   currently not underestimated. Only in unusual constitutes only 10-15
   percent of the value of circumstances should new foreign entrants
   e-commerce in India, e-commerce is create a new and independent sales
   projected to grow by 30 times in the next infrastructure, because it is
   very expensive in three years. Similarly, industry experts the short
   run, and requires sustained believe that on-line business-to-business
   investment to build over the long run, even if (B2B) commerce will
   expand. the product is successful. Market Entry Strategies Most Indian
   manufacturers use a three-tier selling and distribution structure:
   distributor, Large multinational firms can make strategic wholesaler,
   and retailer. In recent years, an investments in foreign markets
   through increasingly competitive market has led to manufacturing
   subsidiaries, direct sales, and the emergence of independent
   distribution joint ventures based on brand and product and logistics
   agencies. As a result, marketers recognition. However, for small-to
   medium- are increasingly outsourcing key functions for sized firms,
   careful research and planning product distribution. regarding market
   entry strategies is recommended before making a final choice. There are
   no major national store chains, but The Commercial Service through its
   seven department stores and supermarkets are offices in India can
   assist U.S. companies growing in many urban areas. India has both with
   counseling and advice. In addition, organized and unorganized channels
   for business groups and local trade associations selling goods.
   However, with government can provide needed assistance. policy
   liberalization resulting in lower taxes and customs duties for IT
   products, the With the gradual opening of markets in line volume of
   business in smuggled goods has with India's WTO commitments, U.S.
   fallen significantly. Computer parts, cellular exporters should find a
   high response rate telephones and other consumer goods once from
   potential agents and distributors for routinely sold through thriving
   unorganized many products. The agent/distributor 17 Office of
   Information Technologies, USDOC, February 2001 approach can be a
   cost-effective way to gain further opportunities for business and entry
   into a new market. Local investment. A liaison office cannot generate
   representatives can assist U.S. firms by any revenue in India, or
   repatriate money out providing knowledge of the domestic market, of
   India. regulations and tax laws. However, agents and distributors
   should be qualified to ensure Branch office: A branch office, like a
   liaison they understand the product and can provide office, is not an
   incorporated company, but an after sales service if necessary. For
   further extension of the foreign company in India. A information on
   selecting an agent or branch of a foreign company is limited to the
   distributor see India's Country Commercial following activities:
   representing the parent Guide. U.S. companies can also take company, as
   buying/selling agent; conducting advantage of the Agent/Distributor
   Service research for the parent company, provided offered by the
   Commercial Service. that research results are made available to Indian
   companies; carrying out import and Joint venture/licensing: A joint
   venture export activities; promoting technical and company is generally
   formed under the Indian financial collaborations between Indian and
   Companies Act, and is jointly owned by an foreign companies. Since
   business is actually Indian and a foreign company. This type of
   conducted in India, a branch office is subject arrangement is common
   because India to tax and is allowed to repatriate the profits
   encourages foreign collaborations to generated from the Indian
   operations to the facilitate capital investments, import capital parent
   company after payment of taxes. goods and the transfer of technology.
   Joint ventures can be financial, technical or Project office: A project
   office is a method techno-financial. Software development is to
   establish a business presence for a limited among India's 35 high
   priority industries period of time, usually to undertake projects
   (called Annexure III industries) where in India awarded to the parent
   company. investment is sought on a priority basis. Business centers:
   Given the shortage of good Overseas companies, which do not choose to
   commercial office space at reasonable prices set up a subsidiary, or to
   form a joint venture in the largest cities, business centers are a with
   an Indian partner, can establish one of viable option for new companies
   wanting to the several types of offices. None of the establish a
   physical presence. Facilities are following entities are permitted to
   acquire ready to move in, wired for communications, immovable property
   without prior approval. and air-conditioned. Billing is normally done
   However, they are allowed to lease property on a monthly basis; and for
   long-term use, in India for a maximum period of five years. discounts
   are available. For selected industry sectors like software and Liaison
   or representative office: Many biotechnology, the state governments are
   foreign companies initially establish a creating special technology
   parks. presence in India by establishing a liaison or representative
   office which is not directly engaged in commercial transactions in
   India. Trade Shows These offices are usually opened to oversee their
   existing business interests, to promote Trade shows and trade missions
   are an awareness of their products, and to explore excellent way for
   U.S. SMEs to learn about 18 Office of Information Technologies, USDOC,
   February 2001 India and introduce their technologies and Also see the
   U.S.& FCS web site products to the market. U.S. Department of
   (www.usatrade.gov), and web sites of the Commerce personnel participate
   in many Office of Information Technologies foreign trade fairs with, or
   on behalf of U.S. (www.exportIT.ita.doc.gov), and the Office firms,
   offering companies exposure at prices of Telecommunications
   Technologies often below regular trade fair participation
   (www.telecom.ita.doc.gov), for upcoming costs. A partial list of
   IT-related trade events. shows in India is listed in the Appendix. 19
   Office of Information Technologies, USDOC, February 2001 CHAPTER 3: THE
   ROLE OF THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE INTERNATIONAL TRADE and
   advocacy assistance. Each year, industry ADMINISTRATION (www.trade.gov)
   specialists profile these industries in the Department of Commerce
   publication U.S. The mission of the U.S. Department of Industry and
   Trade Outlook, describing Commerce's International Trade current and
   future IT industry and market Administration (ITA) is to assist U.S.
   trends on a domestic and global basis. These companies export products
   and services and specialists also continually expand and compete in
   foreign markets. Two ITA units update their web sites with information
   on responsible for export promotion are Trade foreign markets and
   regulations, U.S. foreign Development (TD) and the U.S. and Foreign
   policies that affect IT exports, trade events, Commercial Service
   (USFCS). and additional government and private-sector resources. TRADE
   DEVELOPMENT 3 ITA's Trade Development unit is the TD's industry
   expertise is also the primary Commerce Department's link to U.S. source
   used by the President and the Office industry. TD provides industry and
   market of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) in analyses, export
   promotion services, trade negotiations. TD's industry analyses,
   advocacy for U.S. companies bidding on close work with industry
   representatives, foreign government contracts, and support for
   understanding of issues such as restrictions trade negotiations. This
   unit offers an array on market access and product standards and of
   services to help small businesses increase testing, and knowledge of
   trade data help their export potential. negotiators understand business
   priorities and problems and develop trade agreements Industry
   Expertise. TD's industry expertise that provide maximum benefit for
   U.S. firms. encompasses nearly all U.S. business TD industry experts
   also help monitor and sectors.4 Industry sector specialists provide
   enforce foreign governments' compliance U.S. firms with information and
   analyses on with trade commitments, working with other domestic and
   foreign industry trends; foreign ITA units, including the US&FCS and
   Market market conditions and opportunities for Access and Compliance
   (MAC), and USTR. specific products or services; general exporting
   advice; information on foreign TD's Information Technology Industries,
   market tariffs and non-tariff barriers, and which consists of three
   offices: the Office of regulations; business and cultural practices;
   Information Technologies (OIT), the Office of Telecommunications
   Technologies (OTT), and the Office Electronic Commerce (OEC); 3More
   information on Trade as well as the Office of Development can be found
   at http://www.ita.doc.gov/td Microelectronics, Medical Equipment, and
   4Agriculture products and issues are the Instrumentations (OMMI)
   primarily focus on responsibility of the U.S. Department of IT and
   telecommunications industry issues. Agriculture. 20 Office of
   Information Technologies, USDOC, February 2001 Fax: (202) 482-5834
   Office of Information Technologies http://telecom.ita.doc.gov OIT
   supports the growth and competitiveness of the U.S. IT industries in
   foreign markets. Office of Electronic Commerce (OEC) Industry coverage
   includes the following IT The Office of Electronic Commerce (OEC)
   industry segments: computers and supports the growth and
   competitiveness U.S. peripherals, software (applications and firms
   seeking to enter specific foreign e- operating systems,
   encryption/security commerce markets. OEC also conducts software),
   networking equipment, Internet general trade and policy analysis and
   technologies, and research, including analyzing foreign e-commerce
   technologies. countries' e-commerce laws and initiatives and comparing
   them to U.S. policy To obtain more information, including a list
   requirements. This is accomplished by of upcoming OIT-supported trade
   events, participating in various fora, such as the links to market
   information for India, or to USG's Interagency Working Group on locate
   OIT trade specialists, contact: Electronic Commerce, the Organization
   for Economic Cooperation and Development Office of Information
   Technologies (OIT) (OECD), the World Trade Organization U.S. Department
   of Commerce, Room 2806 (WTO), European Union, Asia Pacific 14th &
   Constitution Avenue, N.W. Economic Cooperation (APEC) and Free
   Washington, D.C. 20230 Trade Area of the Americas (FTAA). This Tel:
   (202) 482-0571 effort also includes overseeing the Fax: (202) 482-0952
   Administration's E-Commerce Joint http://exportIT.ita.doc.gov
   Statements with other governments, managing the Industry Functional
   Advisory Committee Office of Telecommunications on Electronic Commerce
   (IFAC-4), as well Technologies as participating in formal as well as
   informal OTT's mission is to support the growth and policy dialogues
   with other nations. competitiveness of the U.S. telecommunications
   equipment and services OEC provides support for ITA's ongoing e-
   industries in foreign markets. Industry commerce export promotion
   initiative. This coverage includes wireless technologies such
   initiative seeks to expand U.S. exports, bring as cellular and personal
   communications small business exporters into the global equipment,
   cable and broadcast equipment; economy, and engage our trading partners
   in and wireline technologies such as customer e-commerce issues. The
   Office also premises equipment and telecommunications provides various
   technical services, such as services. video conferences, to bring
   together To obtain more information, including a list government policy
   and industry experts on of upcoming OTT-supported telecom events,
   various e-commerce issues. or to locate OTT trade specialists, contact:
   Office of Telecommunications Technologies To obtain more information ,
   or to speak with (OTT), U.S. Department of Commerce, Room an E-Commerce
   Trade Specialist, contact: 4324 14th & Constitution Avenue, N.W.
   Washington, D.C. 20230 Office of Electronic Commerce (OEC) Tel: (202)
   482-4466 U.S. Department of Commerce, Room 2003 21 Office of
   Information Technologies, USDOC, February 2001 14th & Constitution
   Avenue, N.W. The International Trade Administration is Washington, D.C.
   20230 dedicated to opening markets for U.S. Tel: (202) 482-5908
   products and providing assistance and Fax: (202) 482-5734 information
   to exporters. Other ITA units http://www.ecommerce.gov include: Office
   of Microelectronics, Medical Trade Information Center (TIC). The TIC
   Equipment and Instrumentation (OMMI) is a comprehensive resource for
   information OMMI covers electronic components (such on federal export
   assistance programs. It is as electron tubes, printed circuit boards,
   an excellent first stop for new-to-export semiconductors, capacitors,
   resistors, companies seeking export assistance. TIC transformers, and
   connectors) and specialist 1) advise exporters on how to find
   semiconductor manufacturing equipment. and use government programs; 2)
   guide OMMI also covers several industry sectors businesses through the
   export process; 3) with high IT content, including medical and provide
   country and regional business dental equipment and electro medical
   counseling on standards and trade apparatus, process control
   instruments, regulations, distribution channels, trade laboratory
   analytical instruments, optical opportunities and best prospects for
   U.S. instruments, and instruments to measure companies, foreign import
   tariff/taxes and electricity and electrical signals. customs
   procedures, and common commercial difficulties; 4) provide To obtain
   more information, including a list information on overseas and domestic
   trade of upcoming OMMI-supported trade events, events and activities;
   and 5) provide sources or to locate OMMI trade specialists, contact: of
   public and private export financing. TIC trade specialists also advise
   exporters how Office of Microelectronics, Medical to access reports and
   statistics from the Equipment and Instrumentation (OMMI) computerized
   National Trade Data Bank U.S. Department of Commerce, Room 1015 (NTDB)
   and direct them to state and local 14th & Constitution Avenue, N.W.
   trade organizations that provide additional Washington, D.C. 20230
   assistance. To contact the TIC, call 1-800- Tel: (202) 482-2470
   USA-TRAD(E) (1-800-872-8723); fax (202) Fax: (202) 482-0975 482-4473;
   e-mail tic@ita.doc.gov; or visit its http://www.ita.doc.gov/td/ommi
   website: http://tradeinfo.doc.gov. Advocacy Center. The Advocacy Center
   supports U.S. businesses of all sizes as they compete for projects
   overseas. The center aims to "level the playing field" by ensuring that
   when these companies participate in international tenders they are
   treated fairly and that their proposals are evaluated on technical and
   commercial merits. Advocacy assistance can include a meeting between a
   key foreign official and a U.S. government official, a phone call to a
   high-level foreign 22 Office of Information Technologies, USDOC,
   February 2001 official, a timely letter to a foreign promotes the
   formation and use of export government decision-maker, or a Cabinet or
   trade intermediaries and the development of sub-cabinet level trade
   mission to a foreign long term joint export ventures by U.S. firms.
   country. Since 1993, the Advocacy Center OETCA administers two programs
   available has helped 110 SMEs win foreign to all U.S. exporters or
   potential exporters. government contracts valued at more than 1) The
   Export Trade Certificate of Review $2.4 billion. For more information,
   visit the program provides antitrust protection to U.S. Center's
   website at firms for collaborative export activities. 2)
   http://www.ita.doc.gov/td/advocacy. The U.S. Export Yellow PagesTM
   directory, designed to assist U.S. trade intermediaries Small Business
   Program. The Small interested in exporting. For more Business Program
   is ITA's focal point for information, see http://www.ita.doc.td/oetca.
   trade policy issues concerning SMEs. The program brings the small
   business point of Market Development Cooperator Program view to
   international trade policy (MDCP). The MDCP is a competitive
   discussions, primarily through the Industry matching grant program that
   builds public- Sector Advisory Committee on Small and private
   partnerships by providing federal Minority Business for Trade Policy
   Matters assistance to nonprofit export multipliers, (ISAC-14). The
   Small Business Program such as states, trade associations, and also
   provides outreach to and plans events chambers of commerce. MDCP awards
   help for small, women-owned, and minority- fund the start-up costs
   (particularly for owned firms. SMEs) of new export marketing ventures
   which these groups would not undertake Industry Consultations Program.
   (ICP) without federal government support. For The ICP is comprised of
   17 Industry Sector more information, see: Advisory Committees on Trade
   Policy http://ita.doc.gov.td/mdcp. Matters (ISACs), representing 17
   industry sectors of the U.S. economy; and four Industry Functional
   Advisory Committees on THE U.S. AND FOREIGN Trade Policy Matters
   (IFACs), that address COMMERCIAL SERVICE (US&FCS) cross cutting issues
   affecting all industry ITA's US&FCS5 assist U.S. firms in realizing
   sectors -- customs, standards, intellectual their export potential by
   providing property rights, and e-commerce. Advisors counseling,
   international market research, on these committees have direct access
   to assistance in locating international contacts, trade policymakers at
   the U.S. Department of matchmaking services, support of trade Commerce
   and USTR, and develop their events, and advocacy services. US&FCS
   industry's positions on U.S. trade policy and maintains a worldwide
   network of trade negotiation objectives. For more experts located in
   more than 100 cities in the information, see http://ita.doc.gov/td/icp.
   United States and more than 70 countries overseas. Export Trading
   Companies and Trade Intermediaries. The Office of Export 5More
   information on US&FCS can be Trading Company Affairs (OETCA) found at
   http://www.usatrade.gov/. 23 Office of Information Technologies, USDOC,
   February 2001 International Operations. trade-related documents. It is
   US&FCS offices are located primarily in the available at federal
   depository U.S. embassies and consulates and are libraries, can be
   purchased on CD- valuable connections to overseas markets. ROM, or can
   be accessed through the US&FCS staff are industry focused and can
   Internet at www.stat-usa.gov. Call offer expert advice on the business
   practices, 1(800) STAT-USA to order or for cultures, and languages of
   their specific more information. country or region. They offer many
   products * Industry Sector Analysis (ISA). and services to help U.S.
   firms enter the Structured market research reports market or expand
   their sales. Activities produced on location for selected include the
   collection of specific industry and industry sectors in overseas
   markets. market information, identifying trade and investment
   opportunities, establishing key * International Market Insights
   industry and foreign government contacts, (IMI). Short profiles of
   specific helping match U.S. suppliers with overseas foreign market
   conditions or buyers, and organizing or facilitating trade
   opportunities prepared in overseas events. markets and at multilateral
   development banks. Domestic Operations. * Country Commercial Guides
   US&FCS domestic offices provide export (CCG). Prepared annually, the
   counseling and marketing assistance to the CCGs provide
   country-specific U.S. business community through 1,800 trade
   information on marketing U.S. experts located in the U.S. Export
   Assistance products and services, leading Centers (USEACs). The USEACs
   work sectors for exports and investment, closely with the International
   Operations staff trade regulations, customs and to identify best
   markets and develop effective standards, investment climate, market
   entry strategies to link U.S. suppliers financing, business travel, and
   with international buyers or partners. U.S. economic and trade
   statistics. firms can receive practical exporting information such as
   distribution channels, Other services such as the *Customized schedules
   of relevant trade shows and Market Analysis (CMA), *Trade Opportunity
   missions, and assistance with trade finance Program (TOP) and the
   *Agent/Distributor programs available through federal, state and
   Service (ADS) help U.S. firms identify local sectors. export prospects.
   US&FCS Services Market Research. * National Trade Data Bank (NTDB). A
   "one-stop" source of international trade data collected by federal
   agencies that includes over 190,000 24 Office of Information
   Technologies, USDOC, February 2001 A number of services are also
   available to help promote U.S. products and services abroad:
   *Commercial News USA, *Gold Key Service, *Matchmaker Trade Delegations,
   *International Buyer Program, *Multi-State Catalog Exhibitions, and
   *Trade Fair Certification. Detailed information on the above programs
   and services can be found at http://www.usatrade.gov/. Information &
   Communications Technology (ICT) Team 6 Information & Communications The
   ICT team is made up of industry specialists from both the US&FCS and
   TD, who work together to provide comprehensive services to support
   exporting efforts of U.S. IT firms. ICT team members are located in
   US&FCS Export Assistance Centers in key geographic areas throughout the
   United States, in US&FCS offices abroad, and in TD's IT and
   telecommunications-focused offices in Washington, D.C. The team's
   structure and programs aim to meet the needs of the many small- and
   medium-sized IT firms and firm clusters throughout the United States.
   6For more information on the ICT team, see
   http://www.usatrade.gov/US/annarbor/ICT_USA. htm. 25 Office of
   Information Technologies, USDOC, February 2001 Trade Events Selected
   Information Technology-Related Trade Events in India NASSCOM 2001
   February 7-10, 2001 Mumbai, India Event Type: Conference and Exhibition
   Event Description: International exhibition and conference designed to
   deliver complete IT solutions to all its participants. Events will
   cover the most important aspect of the IT revolution including
   Internet/ISPs, software, e-commerce, telecom, and IT infrastructure.
   Information Technologies Matchmaker February 26-March 2, 2001 New
   Delhi/Hyderabad/Mumbai, India Event Type: Matchmaker Trade Delegation
   Event Description: Designed to match small- to medium-sized
   new-to-market or new-to-export U.S. firms with qualified business
   contacts in India. Convergence India 2001 March 14-16, 2001 New Delhi,
   India Event Type: Conference, Trade Show and Exhibition Event
   Description: International exhibition and conference for users and
   providers of telecom in India and the subcontinent. Covers broadcast
   and telephony, broadband and services, wireless technologies,
   multimedia, networks, data communications and video communications. 26
   Office of Information Technologies, USDOC, February 2001 Trade Events
   Internet World India September 26-28, 2001 New Delhi, India Event Type:
   Conference, Trade Show and Exhibition Event Description: International
   exhibition and conference features the latest Internet, Intranet and
   e-commerce solutions and services, including web-based services,
   content development, web design, as well as the latest cutting-edge
   marketing trends. IT World COMDEX India December 2001 New Delhi, India
   Event Type: Conference, Trade Show and Exhibition Event Description:
   International exhibition and conference features both established and
   emerging IT technologies, including Internet, Intranet and e-commerce
   solutions and services, including web-based services, and
   communications. 27 Office of Information Technologies, USDOC, February
   2001 Foreign Commercial Service The Commercial Service offers a full
   range of market contact, assessment, research and trade promotion
   services through its network of offices throughout India: < Ahmedabad
   Tel: 011-91-79-656 5210 / 656 5216 Fax: 011-91-79-656 0763 Email:
   Ahmedabad.Office.Box@mail.doc.gov < Bangalore Tel: 011-91-80-558-1452
   Fax: 011-91-80-558-3630 Email: Bangalore.Office.Box@mail.doc.gov <
   Calcutta Tel: 011-91-33-282-3611 Fax: 011-91-33-282-2335 Email:
   Calcutta.Office.Box@mail.doc.gov < Chennai Tel: 011-91-44-811-2034 Fax:
   011-91-44-811-2036 Email: Chennai.Office.Box@mail.doc.gov < Mumbai Tel:
   011-91-22-265-2511 Fax: 011-91-22-262-3850 Email:
   Mumbai.Office.Box@mail.doc.gov < New Delhi Tel: 011-91-11-331-6841 /
   331-6848 Fax: 011-91-11-331-5172 Email:
   New.Delhi.Office.Box@mail.doc.gov < Pune Tel: 011-91-20-601-251 /
   601-252 Fax: 011-91-20-601-248 Email:Pune.Office.Box@mail.doc.gov
   Selected Trade Associations 28 Office of Information Technologies,
   USDOC, February 2001 National Association of Software and Service
   Companies (NASSCOM) International Youth Centre 1, Circular Road
   Chanakyapuri, New Delhi  110 021, India Tel: 91 11 3015416-19 Fax: 91
   11 3015452 e-mail: nasscom@nasscom.org web site: http://www.nasscom.org
   The Manufacturers Association for Information Technology (MAIT) 4th
   Floor, PHD House Opp. Asian Games Village New Delhi  110 016, India
   Tel: 91-11-685-5487, 685-4284, 687-6976 Fax: 91-11-685-1321 e-mail:
   mait@giasd101.vsnl.net.in web site: http://www.mait.com Telecom
   Equipment Manufacturers Association (TEMA) 4th Floor, PHD House Opp.
   Asian Games Village New Delhi  110 016, India Tel: 91-11-6859621 Fax:
   91-11-6859620 e-mail : tema@del2.vsnl.net.in web site:
   http://india-times.com/tema/index.html Electronic Components Industries
   Association (ELCINA) ELCINA House, 422, Okhla Industrial Estate New
   Delhi  110020, India Tel: 91 11 6924597, 6928053 Fax: 91 11 6923440 web
   site: http://www.elcina.com 29 Office of Information Technologies,
   USDOC, February 2001 Selected Chambers of Commerce Confederation of
   Indian Industry (CII) Mr. Tarun Das Director General 23-26
   Institutional Area Lodi Road New Delhi  110 003, India Tel:
   91-11-462-9994; 462-6164 Fax: 91-11-463-3168; 462-6149 e-mail:
   ciico@ciionline.org web site: http://www.ciionline.org/ Federation of
   Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) Dr. Amit Mitra
   Secretary General Federation House, Tansen Marg New Delhi  110 001,
   India Tel: 91-11-373-8760-70 Fax: 91-11-372-1504; 332-0714 web site:
   http://www.ficci.com/ficci/ The Associated Chambers of Commerce and
   Industry of India (ASSOCHAM) Mr. E.N. Murthy Secretary General 11,
   Community Center Zamrudpur, New Delhi  110 048, India Tel: 91-11-6292
   310-21, Fax: 91-11-645-1981, 629
