http://fire.pppl.gov/eu_council2_103001.pdf

   CORDIS: News service Search Go Detailed search Commission's Euratom
   proposals evoke mixed reactions [Date: 2001-11-02] The Research Council
   reached a broad agreement on the shape of the Euratom programme on 30
   October, but failed to reach a consensus regarding the programme budget
   or the future direction of fission research. Ministers stressed their
   commitment to fusion research to ensure Europe's long term long term
   energy needs are met, emphasising their preference for this research to
   be conducted within the framework of the ITER project. Delegates agreed
   that the production of energy from nuclear fusion should be possible
   within 20 to 30 years. Some ministers proposed that industry should
   play a greater role in the project and that the scope of the research
   should be widened to examine high-resistance materials which could be
   used in the construction of a new reactor. The Council endorsed
   France's bid to construct the ITER reactor at the research site in
   Cadarache, France, and adopted it as the European proposal to compete
   against other sites in Japan and Canada. In the area of nuclear fission
   research, the Council agreed on the importance of safety and
   radioprotection. Less amenable was the Council's response to the
   Commission proposal to fund the development of concepts for new reactor
   types which would produce less waste. The Belgian Presidency proposed
   limiting such funding to the exploration of the potential of such
   concepts. Regarding the budget for the Euratom programme during the
   Sixth Framework programme (FP6), some ministers proposed an increase in
   the funding of fusion research, but no consensus was reached. In the
   wider context of FP6, ministers agreed to the Commission proposal that
   the programme implementation should be overseen by a single programme
   committee in which the Member States are represented, along with a set
   of sub-committees specialising in specific domains. Such an arrangement
   is intended to ensure the transparency of Commission decisions. RELATED
   STORIES: 17542; 17547 Category: General policy Data Source Provider:
   European Commission and Belgian Presidency Document Reference: Based on
   information from the Commission and Belgian Presidency Programme or
   Service Acronym: FRAMEWORK 6C; MS-B C; FP6-EAEC C Subject Index :
   Policies; Nuclear Fission; Nuclear Fusion; Scientific Research RCN:
   17568 CORDIS RTD-NEWS/© European Communities, 2001. Tuesday, November
   6, 2001
   file:///Macintosh%20HD/Desktop%20Folder/European/103001%20meeting/News%
   201/eu_council_iter Page: 1
