http://www.pueblo.gsa.gov/cfocus/cfjan2002/focus.htm


    Image of white star linking to Federal Consumer Information Center's
   Main Page
                                   Topics
   Cars -- Buying, Selling, Car Maintenance, Insurance
   Children -- Learning, Parenting
   Education -- School Loans, Planning for College, Alternative Ways to
   Earn a Degree
   Employment -- Tips on finding a job, Occupation information, Workplace
   rights, Pensions
   Federal Programs -- Social Security, Medicare, Veteran's Benefits,
   Buying Government Property
   Food -- Nutrition for better health, Safe food handling and preparation
   Health -- Drugs and Health Aids, Dieting and Nutrition, Medical
   Problems
   Housing -- Financing and Sales, Home Maintenance
   Money -- Credit, Saving, Investing, Retirement Planning, Protecting
   your money
   Small Business -- Starting a Business, Small Business Administration,
   Patents and Copyrights
   Travel -- Foreign Travel Requirements, National Parks, Travel Advice,
   Flying rights and advice
   And more... -- Having trouble finding something? Check here or go to
   our search!

                                  Resources
   Consumer Action Website -- Tips, advice, listings of what to do and who
   to call with a consumer problem
   Image of a button linking to the National Contact Center
   Image of a button linking to FirstGov for Kids
   Recalls -- Federal and Private Sector Recalls on Products
   Scams and Frauds -- A listing of the latest scams and recalls announced
   by Federal Agencies and Consumer Groups

   Subscribe to FCIC
    news and media
    e-mail updates!

   Image linking to FirstGov "Your first click to the U.S. Government"
   space



                              FCIC Home Page
   Search Page In The News Page Press Room Page FAQ Page Shop Site Links
   Page About Us Page Fun Stuff
                                  space
              Consumer Focus: Handling Consumer Complaints
                                  space

   Image a vcr shooting a tape out at a man's head

Handling Consumer Complaints

   Now that the holidays are over and all the presents are unwrapped, it's
   time to relax, right? But what if that holiday gift didn't turn out to
   be what you expected? Or what if your expensive new electronic toys
   stopped working by New Year's Eve? Sometimes the consumer complaint
   process can seem complicated and intimidating. Well, you've come to the
   right place. We've put together all the information you need to get
   your complaint resolved quickly. Just follow the steps below, and good
   luck!
     * Making a Complaint
     * Who to Contact and How to Find Them
     * What to Do Next
     * Recalls
     * Telemarketing
     * Other Sources of Help

   space
   Image of man holding a pile of junk

Recalls

   Note that it's a possibility that the product you are dissatisfied with
   has already been recalled. Several Federal government agencies enforce
   product safety regulations and provide recall information. Consult the
   list below and then contact the appropriate Federal agency.
     * Cars -National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
     * Drugs, medical devices- Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
     * Food -U.S. Department of Agriculture; FDA
     * Seafood -FDA ; U.S. Department of Commerce
     * Toy, baby and play equipment, household products-U.S. Consumer
       Product Safety Commission

   Recalls are also posted regularly on the FCIC website.
   space
   Image of a man standing in front of a stack of books surrounded by
   question marks

Other Sources of Help with Complaints

   Media Programs

   Local newspapers and radio stations often have Action Lines or Hotline
   services. Many try to resolve all of the consumer complaints they
   receive. Others handle only the most serious cases or those that occur
   most frequently. To find these services, check with your local
   newspapers, radio and television stations, or local library.

   Call for Action, Inc. is an almost forty year old nonprofit network of
   consumer hotlines, which operates in conjunction with broadcast
   partners to educate and assist consumers and small businesses with
   consumer problems. Their website lists hotlines in major markets
   staffed with trained volunteers who offer advice and mediate complaints
   at no cost to consumers.

     Call for Action, Inc.
     5272 River Road, Suite 300
     Bethesda, MD 20816
     301-657-8260
     Fax: 301-657-2914
     www.callforaction.org

   Legal Help
   Small Claims Court

   Small claims courts resolve disputes involving claims for small amounts
   of money. While the maximum amounts that can be claimed or awarded
   differ from state to state, court procedures generally are simple,
   inexpensive, quick and informal. Court fees are minimal, and you often
   get your filing fee back if you win your case. Check your local
   telephone book under the municipal, county or state government headings
   for small claims court offices.
     * Ask the clerk how to use the small claims court.
     * Request educational material to prepare you for small claims court.
     * Observe a small claims court session before taking your own case to
       court.

   Dispute Resolution

   Many small claims courts have dispute resolution programs to help
   citizens resolve their disputes before trial. These programs (e.g.,
   mediation and conciliation) often simplify the process. In mediation,
   both people involved in the small claims dispute meet, and with the
   assistance of a neutral, third party mediator, discuss the situation
   and create their own agreement.

   For additional information about dispute resolution, write to:

     American Bar Association
     Section on Dispute Resolution
     740 15th Street, NW
     Washington, DC 20005
     202-662-1680

   Finding a Lawyer
     * Ask friends and family for a reference.
     * Check with the Lawyer Referral Service of your state, city or
       county bar association listed in the telephone directory.

   For more information about legal help, click here
   space

     Enjoy this month's Focus?  Share this information with a friend and
                              spread the word!
                      Enter recipient's e-mail address:
                          _________________________
                [BUTTON Input] (not implemented)_____________

      We will not retain or use this information for any other purpose.
   space

   For more information on other popular consumer issues check out FCIC's
   Consumer Focus Archive.
   space
      Image of a woman writing a letter

   Making a Complaint

        * In some instances it will be best to contact the business that sold
          you the item or performed the service. In other cases, you may wish
          to go directly to the headquarters of the company or the
          manufacturer. You can find a list of many corporate consumer
          offices here. Ask if they have a consumer affairs office and, if
          so, report the problem directly to them. Calmly and concisely
          describe the problem and what action you would like taken.
        * Keep a record of your efforts to resolve the problem. When you
          write to the company, describe the problem and what you have done
          so far to resolve it. Click here for a sample complaint letter you
          can use as a guide. If you use email, make sure to send a copy of
          the email to other relevant organizations. You can also use the
          links at www.pueblo.gsa.gov to send your complaints to companies,
          agencies, etc. Be sure to mention what solution you want. For
          example, do you want your money back or the product repaired or
          exchanged? When you call, keep notes of whom you spoke with and
          what they said.
        * Make your written or telephone complaint brief. Include the date
          and place you made the purchase, who performed the service,
          information about the product (such as the serial or model number,
          warranty terms), what went wrong, with whom you have tried to
          resolve the problem, and what you want done to correct the problem.
        * Be reasonable, not angry or threatening. Type your letter, if
          possible, or make sure that your handwriting is neat and easy to
          read.
        * Include copies, not originals, of all documents.
        * Allow time for the person you contacted to resolve your problem.
          Keep notes of the date, what was agreed on, and the next steps to
          be taken. Save copies of all letters to and from the company. Don't
          give up if you are not satisfied. There are third-party dispute
          resolution programs, trade associations, media programs, national
          consumer organizations, and legal assistance programs listed
          throughout the Consumer Action Website that may be able to assist
          you.

   space
      Image of a woman making a telephone call

   Who To Contact and How To Find Them

        * Address letters, faxes or emails to the company consumer affairs
          department or to the president if there is no consumer affairs
          office. You can find a list of many corporate consumer contacts
          here.
        * Call the company's toll free number. Look for it on any documents
          you have received from the company, in a directory of toll-free
          telephone numbers available at your public library, by calling
          toll-free directory assistance at 1-800-555-1212 or by referring to
          the many corporate consumer contacts listed here.
        * Check the product label or warranty for the name and address of the
          manufacturer or parent company.
        * Because the name of the manufacturer or parent company is often
          different than the brand name, check the following books in the
          reference section of your local library for contact information:
          Standard & Poor's Register of Corporations, Directors and
          Executives; Standard Directory of Advertisers; Trade Names
          Dictionary; Brands and Their Companies; and the Dun & Bradstreet
          Directory.
        * Check the state agency (possibly the corporation commission or
          secretary of state's office) that provides addresses for companies
          incorporated in that state.

      What To Do Next
        * If you believe you have given the company enough time to resolve
          the problem, file a complaint with your state or local consumer
          protection office, the Better Business Bureau, or the regulatory
          agency that has jurisdiction over the business, e.g., banking,
          insurance and utilities commissions. Include information about what
          you have done so far to try to resolve your complaint. If you think
          a law has been broken, contact your local or state consumer
          protection agency right away.

   space
      Image a man yelling into a telephone receiver

   Telemarketers

      Here's some information on how to reduce unwanted mail, telephone or
      online solicitations:
        * Tell telemarketers who call you to put you on their "Do Not Call"
          lists and note the call. If a telemarketer calls again, note of the
          date and report it to the proper authorities.
        * Contact the Direct Marketing Association, which operates three free
          services to remove consumers from DMA members' telemarketing lists,
          mail lists and email lists. You can contact them using the
          information here.
        * Tell companies you do business with, including those online, to
          remove your name from customer lists that they may rent or sell to
          other marketers.
        * Look for information about how to opt out of marketing lists on
          companies' sales materials, order forms and web sites.
        * Tell all marketers not to contact you again.

      For more information about your rights when shopping from home, click
      here.
   space
   Site Map - Text Version -  Privacy Policy - Security Statement
   space

   This service is provided by the Federal Consumer Information Center of
     the U.S. General Services Administration. If you have a comment or
                question, e-mail us at catalog.pueblo@gsa.gov
     GSA's logo linking to GSA's website

   {Back to FCIC's Main Page} Homepage
