http://ethics.od.nih.gov/LawReg/5CFR5501.pdf

   [Code of Federal Regulations] [Title 5, Volume 3, Parts 1200 to end]
   [Revised as of January 1, 1997] [CITE: 5CFR5501] [Page 670-676] TITLE
   5--ADMINISTRATIVE PERSONNEL CHAPTER XLV--DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
   SERVICES PART 5501 SUPPLEMENTAL STANDARDS OF ETHICAL CONDUCT FOR
   EMPLOYEES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Table of
   Contents Sec. 5501.101 General. 5501.102 Designation of HHS components
   as separate agencies. 5501.103 Gifts from federally recognized Indian
   tribes or Alaska Native villages or regional or village corporations.
   5501.104 Prohibited financial interests applicable to employees of the
   Food and Drug Administration and the Office of the Chief Counsel.
   5501.105 Exemption for otherwise disqualifying financial interests
   derived from Indian or Alaska Native birthrights. 5501.106 Outside
   employment and other outside activities. 5501.107 Teaching, speaking
   and writing by special Government employees in the Public Health
   Service. 5501.108 Exception to the prohibition against assisting in the
   prosecution of claims against, or acting as an agent or attorney
   before, the Government, applicable only to employees assigned to
   federally recognized Indian tribes or Alaska Native villages or
   regional or village corporations pursuant to the Intergovernmental
   Personnel Act. Authority: 5 U.S.C. 301, 7301, 7353; 5 U.S.C. App.
   (Ethics in Government Act of 1978); 25 U.S.C. 450i(f); 42 U.S.C. 216;
   E.O. 12674, 54 FR 15159, 3 CFR, 1989 Comp., p. 215, as modified by E.O.
   12731, 55 FR 42547, 3 CFR, 1990 Comp., p. 306; 5 CFR 2635.105,
   2635.203, 2635.403, 2635.802, 2635.803. Source: 61 FR 39763, July 30,
   1996, unless otherwise noted. Sec. 5501.101 General. (a) Purpose. The
   regulations in this part apply to employees of the Department of Health
   and Human Services (HHS) and supplement the Standards of Ethical
   Conduct for Employees of the Executive Branch contained in 5 CFR part
   2635. In addition to 5 CFR part 2635 and this part, employees are
   required to comply with implementing guidance and procedures issued by
   HHS components in accordance with 5 CFR 2635.105(c). Employees are also
   subject to the executive branch-wide financial disclosure regulations
   at 5 CFR part 2634, the Employee Responsibilities and Conduct
   regulations at 5 CFR part 735, and the HHS regulations regarding
   conduct at 45 CFR part 73. (b) Applicability. The regulations in this
   part apply to individuals who are employees'' within the meaning of 5
   CFR 2635.102(h). The regulations thus apply to special Government
   employees, 5 CFR 5501 HHS Supplemental Standards of Ethical Conduct
   Page 1 except to the extent they are specifically excluded from certain
   provisions, and to uniformed service officers in the Public Health
   Service Commissioned Corps on active duty. (c) Definitions. Unless a
   term is otherwise defined in this part, the definitions set forth in 5
   CFR part 2635 apply to terms in this part. In addition, for purposes of
   this part: (1) Federally recognized Indian tribe or Alaska Native
   village or regional or village corporation means any Indian tribe,
   band, nation, or other organized group or community, including any
   Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation as defined in
   or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, 43
   U.S.C. 1601 et seq., which is recognized as eligible for the special
   programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because
   of their status as Indians. (2) Significantly regulated organization
   means an organization for which the sales of products regulated by the
   Food and Drug Administration (FDA) constitute ten percent or more of
   annual gross sales in the organization's previous fiscal year; where an
   organization does not have a record of sales of FDA-regulated products,
   it will be deemed to be significantly regulated if its operations are
   solely in fields regulated by FDA. Sec. 5501.102 Designation of HHS
   components as separate agencies. (a) Separate agency components of HHS.
   Pursuant to 5 CFR 2635.203(a), each of the thirteen components of HHS
   listed below is designated as an agency separate from each of the other
   twelve listed components and, for employees of that component, as an
   agency distinct from the remainder of HHS. However, the components
   listed below are not deemed to be separate agencies for purposes of
   applying any provision of 5 CFR part 2635 or this part to employees of
   the remainder of HHS: (1) Administration on Aging; (2) Administration
   for Children and Families: (3) Agency for Health Care Policy and
   Research; (4) Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry; (5)
   Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; (6) Food and Drug
   Administration; (7) Health Care Financing Administration; (8) Health
   Resources and Services Administration; (9) Indian Health Service; (10)
   National Institutes of Health; (11) Office of Consumer Affairs; (12)
   Program Support Center; and (13) Substance Abuse and Mental Health
   Services Administration. (b) Definition-- (1) Employee of a component
   includes, in addition to employees actually within a component, an
   employee in a division or region of the Office of the General Counsel
   that principally advises or represents that component. (2) Remainder of
   HHS means employees in the Office of the Secretary and Staff Divisions,
   employees of the Office of the General Counsel with Department-wide
   responsibility, and any HHS employee not in one of the 13 components
   designated as separate agencies in paragraph (a) of this section. (c)
   Applicability of separate agency designations. The designations in
   paragraph (a) of this section identify an employee's agency'' for
   purposes of: (1) Determining when a person is a prohibited source
   within the meaning of 5 CFR 2635.203(d) for purposes of applying: 5 CFR
   5501 HHS Supplemental Standards of Ethical Conduct Page 2 (i) The
   regulations at subpart B of 5 CFR part 2635 governing gifts from
   outside sources; and (ii) The regulations at Sec. 5501.106 requiring
   prior approval of outside employment and other outside activities; and
   (2) Determining whether teaching, speaking or writing relates to the
   employee's official duties within the meaning of 5 CFR
   2635.807(a)(2)(i). Sec. 5501.103 Gifts from federally recognized Indian
   tribes or Alaska Native villages or regional or village corporations.
   (a) Tribal or Alaska Native gifts. In addition to the gifts which come
   within the exceptions set forth in 5 CFR 2635.204, and subject to all
   provisions of 5 CFR 2635.201 through 2635.205, an employee may accept
   unsolicited gifts of native artwork or crafts from federally recognized
   Indian tribes or Alaska Native villages or regional or village
   corporations, provided that the aggregate market value of individual
   gifts received from any one tribe or village under the authority of
   this paragraph shall not exceed $200 in a calendar year. (b)
   Limitations on use of exception. If the donor is a tribe or village
   that has interests that may be substantially affected by the
   performance or nonperformance of an employee's official duties, the
   employee may accept the gifts authorized by paragraph (a) of this
   section only where there is a written finding by the agency designee
   that acceptance of the gift is in the agency's interest and will not
   violate any of the limitations on the use of exceptions contained in 5
   CFR 2635.202(c). Sec. 5501.104 Prohibited financial interests
   applicable to employees of the Food and Drug Administration and the
   Office of the Chief Counsel. (a) General prohibition. Except as
   permitted by paragraph (b) of this section, no employee or spouse or
   minor child of an employee, other than a special Government employee or
   the spouse or minor child of a special Government employee, of the Food
   and Drug Administration or of the Office of the Chief Counsel shall
   have a financial interest in a significantly regulated organization.
   (b) Exceptions. Notwithstanding the prohibition in paragraph (a) of
   this section: (1) An employee or spouse or minor child of an employee
   may hold a pension arising from employment with a significantly
   regulated organization. (2) An employee who is not required to file a
   public or confidential financial disclosure report pursuant to 5 CFR
   part 2634, or the spouse or minor child of such employee, may hold a
   financial interest in a significantly regulated organization if: (i)
   The total cost or value, measured at the time of acquisition, of the
   combined interests of the employee and the employee's spouse and minor
   children in the regulated organization was $5,000 or less; (ii) The
   holding, if it represents an equity interest, constitutes less than 1
   percent of the total outstanding equity of the organization; and (iii)
   The total holdings in significantly regulated organizations account for
   less than 50 percent of the total value of the combined investment
   portfolios of the employee and the employee's spouse and minor
   children. (3) An employee or spouse or minor child of an employee may
   have an interest in a significantly regulated organization that
   constitutes any interest in a publicly traded or publicly available
   investment fund (e.g., a mutual fund), or a widely held pension or
   similar fund, which, in the literature it distributes to prospective
   and current investors or participants, does not indicate the objective
   or practice of concentrating its investments in significantly regulated
   organizations, if the employee neither exercises control nor has the
   ability to exercise control over the financial interests held in the
   fund. 5 CFR 5501 HHS Supplemental Standards of Ethical Conduct Page 3
   (4) In cases involving exceptional circumstances, the Commissioner or
   the Commissioner's designee may grant a written exception to permit an
   employee, or the spouse or minor child of an employee, to hold a
   financial interest in a significantly regulated organization based upon
   a determination that the application of the prohibition in paragraph
   (a) of this section is not necessary to ensure public confidence in the
   impartiality or objectivity with which HHS programs are administered or
   to avoid a violation of part 2635 of this title. Note: With respect to
   any excepted financial interest, employees are reminded of their
   obligations under 5 CFR part 2635, and specifically their obligation
   under subpart D to disqualify themselves from participating in any
   particular matter in which they, their spouses or minor children have a
   financial interest. Furthermore, the agency may prohibit or restrict an
   individual employee from acquiring or holding any financial interest or
   a class of financial interests based on the agency's determination that
   the interest creates a substantial conflict with the employee's duties,
   within the meaning of 5 CFR 2635.403. Sec. 5501.105 Exemption for
   otherwise disqualifying financial interests derived from Indian or
   Alaska Native birthrights. (a) Under 18 U.S.C. 208(b)(4), an employee
   who otherwise would be disqualified may participate in a particular
   matter where the otherwise disqualifying financial interest that would
   be affected results solely from the interest of the employee, or the
   employee's spouse or minor child, in birthrights: (1) In an Indian
   tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community, including
   any Alaska Native village corporation as defined in or established
   pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, which is
   recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided
   by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians; (2)
   In an Indian allotment the title to which is held in trust by the
   United States or which is inalienable by the allottee without the
   consent of the United States; or (3) In an Indian claims fund held in
   trust or administered by the United States. (b) The exemption described
   in paragraph (a) of this section applies only if the particular matter
   does not involve the Indian allotment or claims fund or the Indian
   tribe, band, nation, organized group or community, or Alaska Native
   village corporation as a specific party or parties. Sec. 5501.106
   Outside employment and other outside activities. (a) Applicability.
   This section does not apply to special Government employees. (b)
   Definitions. For purposes of this section: (1) Compensation has the
   meaning set forth in 5 CFR 2635.807(a)(2)(iii). (2) Consultative
   services means the provision of personal services by an employee,
   including the rendering of advice or consultation, which requires
   advanced knowledge in a field of science or learning customarily
   acquired by a course of specialize instruction and study in an
   institution of higher education, hospital, or other similar facility.
   (3) Professional services means the provision of personal services by
   an employee, including the rendering of advice or consultation, which
   involves the skills of a profession as defined in 5 CFR 2636.305(b)(1).
   (c) Prohibited outside employment and activities-- (1) Prohibited
   assistance in the preparation of grant applications or contract
   proposals. An employee shall not provide consultative or professional
   services, for compensation, to or on behalf of any other person to
   prepare, or assist in the preparation of, any grant application,
   contract proposal, program report, or other document intended for
   submission to HHS. 5 CFR 5501 HHS Supplemental Standards of Ethical
   Conduct Page 4 (2) Prohibited employment in HHS-funded activities. An
   employee shall not, for compensation, engage in employment, as defined
   in 5 CFR 2635.603(a), with respect to a particular activity funded by
   an HHS grant, contract, cooperative agreement, cooperative research and
   development agreement, or other funding mechanism authorized by
   statute. (3) Prohibited outside activities applicable to employees of
   the Food and Drug Administration and the Office of the Chief Counsel.
   An employee of the Food and Drug Administration or the Office of the
   Chief Counsel who is required to file a public or confidential
   financial disclosure report pursuant to 5 CFR part 2634 shall not: (i)
   Engage in any self-employed business activity for which the sale or
   promotion of FDA-regulated products is expected to constitute ten
   percent or more of annual gross sales or revenues; or (ii) Engage in
   employment, as defined in 5 CFR 2635.603(a), whether or not for
   compensation, with a significantly regulated organization, as defined
   in Sec. 5501.101(c)(2), unless the employment meets either of the
   following exceptions: (A) The employment consists of the practice of
   medicine, dentistry, veterinary medicine, pharmacy, nursing, or similar
   practices, provided that the employment does not involve substantial
   unrelated non-professional duties, such as personnel management,
   contracting and purchasing responsibilities (other than normal
   out-of-stock'' requisitioning), and does not involve employment by a
   medical product manufacturer in the conduct of biomedical research; or
   (B) The employment is limited to clerical or similar services (such as
   cashier or janitorial services) in retail stores, such as supermarkets,
   drug stores, or department stores. (4) Prohibited outside practice of
   law applicable to attorneys in the Office of the General Counsel. (i)
   An employee who serves as an attorney in or under the supervision of
   the Office of the General Counsel shall not engage in any outside
   practice of law that might require the attorney to: (A) Assert a legal
   position that is or appears to be in conflict with the interests of the
   Department of Health and Human Services, the client to which the
   attorney owes a professional responsibility; or (B) Interpret any
   statute, regulation or rule administered or issued by the Department.
   (ii) Exceptions. Nothing in this section prevents an employee from: (A)
   Acting, with or without compensation, as an agent or attorney for, or
   otherwise representing, the employee's parents, spouse, child, or any
   person for whom, or for any estate for which, the employee is serving
   as guardian, executor, administrator, trustee, or other personal
   fiduciary to the extent permitted by 18 U.S.C. 203 and 205, or from
   providing advice or counsel to such persons or estate; or (B) Acting,
   without compensation, as an agent or attorney for, or otherwise
   representing, any person who is the subject of disciplinary, loyalty,
   or other personnel administration proceedings in connection with those
   proceedings to the extent permitted by 18 U.S.C. 205, or from providing
   uncompensated advice or counsel to such person; or (C) Giving testimony
   under oath or from making statements required to be made under penalty
   for perjury or contempt. (iii) Specific approval procedures. (A) The
   exceptions to 18 U.S.C. 203 and 205 described in paragraph
   (c)(4)(ii)(A) of this section do not apply unless the employee obtained
   the approval of the Government official responsible for the appointment
   of the employee to a Federal position. (B) The exception to 18 U.S.C.
   205 described in paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(B) of this section does not apply
   unless the employee has obtained the approval of a supervisory official
   who has authority to determine whether the employee's proposed 5 CFR
   5501 HHS Supplemental Standards of Ethical Conduct Page 5
   representation of another person in a personnel administration matter
   is consistent with the faithful performance of the employee's duties.
   (d) Prior approval for outside employment and other outside
   activities-- (1) General approval requirement. Except to the extent
   that an employment or other activity has been exempted under paragraph
   (d)(5) of this section, an employee shall obtain written approval prior
   to engaging, with or without compensation, in the following outside
   employment or activities: (i) Providing consultative or professional
   services, including service as an expert witness. (ii) Engaging in
   teaching, speaking, writing, or editing that: (A) Relates to the
   employee's official duties within the meaning of 5 CFR
   2635.807(a)(2)(i)(B) through (E); or (B) Would be undertaken as a
   result of an invitation to engage in the activity that was extended to
   the employee by a person who is a prohibited source within the meaning
   of 5 CFR 2635.203(d), as modified by Sec. 5501.102. (iii) Providing
   services to a non-Federal entity as an officer, director, or board
   member, or as a member of a group, such as a planning commission
   advisory council, editorial board, or scientific or technical advisory
   board or panel, which requires the provision of advice, counsel, or
   consultation, unless the service is provided without compensation other
   than reimbursement of expenses to a political, religious, social,
   fraternal, or recreational organization and the position held does not
   require the provision of professional services within the meaning of
   paragraph (b)(3) of this section. (2) Additional approval requirement
   for employees of the Food and Drug Administration and the Office of the
   Chief Counsel. (i) In addition to the general approval requirements set
   forth in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, an employee of the Food and
   Drug Administration or the Office of the Chief Counsel shall obtain
   written approval prior to engaging in any outside employment, as
   defined in 5 CFR 2635.603(a), whether or not for compensation, or any
   self-employed business activity. (ii) The requirement of paragraph
   (d)(2)(i) of this section does not apply to participation in the
   activities of a political, religious, social, fraternal, or
   recreational organization, unless the position held requires the
   provision of professional services or is performed for compensation
   other than the reimbursement of expenses. (iii) The requirement of
   paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section shall not apply to the extent that
   an employment activity has been exempted, pursuant to paragraph (d)(5)
   of this section. (3) Submission of requests for approval. An employee
   seeking to engage in any of the activities for which advance approval
   is required shall make a written request for approval a reasonable time
   before beginning the activity. This request should be directed to the
   employee's supervisor who will forward it to the official authorized to
   approve outside employment and activities requests for the employee's
   component. All requests for prior approval shall include the following
   information: (i) The employee's name, organizational location,
   occupational title, grade, and salary; (ii) The nature of the proposed
   outside employment or other outside activity, including a full
   description of the specific duties or services to be performed; (iii) A
   description of the employee's official duties that relate in any way to
   the proposed activity; (iv) The name and address of the person or
   organization for whom or with which the work or activity will be done,
   including the location where the services will be performed; (v) The
   estimated total time that will be devoted to the activity. If the
   proposed outside activity is to be performed on a continuing basis, a
   statement of the estimated number of hours per year; for other
   employment, a statement of the anticipated beginning and ending date; 5
   CFR 5501 HHS Supplemental Standards of Ethical Conduct Page 6 (vi) A
   statement as to whether the work can be performed entirely outside of
   the employee's regular duty hours and, if not, the estimated number of
   hours of absence from that will be required; (vii) The method of basis
   of any compensation (e.g., fee, per diem, honorarium, royalties, stock
   options, travel and expenses, or other); (viii) A statement as to
   whether the compensation is derived from an HHS grant, contract,
   cooperative agreement, or other source of HHS funding; (ix) For
   activities involving the provision of consultative or professional
   services, a statement indicating whether the client, employer, or other
   person on whose behalf the services are performed is receiving, or
   intends to seek, an HHS grant, contract, cooperative agreement, or
   other funding relationship; and (x) For activities involving teaching,
   speaking, writing or editing, the proposed text of any disclaimer
   required by 5 CFR 2635.807(b)(2) or by the instructions or manual
   issuances authorized under paragraph (d)(5) of this section. (4)
   Standard for approval. Approval shall be granted unless it is
   determined that the outside employment or other outside activity is
   expected to involve conduct prohibited by statute or Federal
   regulation, including 5 CFR part 2635 and this part. Note: The granting
   of granting of approval for an outside activity does not relieve the
   employee of the obligation to abide by all applicable laws governing
   employee conduct nor does approval constitute a sanction of any
   violation. Approval involves an assessment that the general activity as
   described on the submission does not appear likely to violate any
   criminal statutes or other ethics rules. Employees are reminded that
   during the course of an otherwise approvable activity, situations may
   arise, or actions may be contemplated, that, nevertheless, pose ethical
   concerns. Example 1: A clerical employee with a degree in library
   science volunteers to work on the acquisitions committee at a local
   public library. Serving on a panel that renders advice to a non-Federal
   entity is subject to prior approval. Because recommending books for the
   library collection normally would not pose a conflict with the typing
   duties assigned the employee, the request would be approved. Example 2:
   While serving on the library acquisitions committee, the clerical
   employee in the preceding example is asked to help the library business
   office locate a missing book order. Shipment of the order is delayed
   because the publisher has declared bankruptcy and its assets, including
   inventory in the warehouse, have been frozen to satisfy the claims of
   the Internal Revenue Service and other creditors. The employee may not
   contact the Federal bankruptcy trustee to seek, on behalf of the public
   library, the release of the books. Even though the employee's service
   on the acquisitions committee had been approved, a criminal statute, 18
   U.S.C. 205, would preclude any representation by a Federal employee of
   an outside entity before a Federal court or agency with respect to a
   matter in which the United States is a party or has a direct and
   substantial interest. (5) Responsibilities of the designated agency
   ethics official and component agencies. (i) The designated agency
   ethics official or, with the concurrence of the designated agency
   ethics official, each of the separate agency components of HHS listed
   in Sec. 5501.102 may issue an instruction or manual issuance exempting
   categories of employment or other outside activities from a requirement
   of prior written approval based on a determination that the employment
   or activities within those categories would generally be approved and
   are not likely to involve conduct prohibited by statute or Federal
   regulations, including 5 CFR part 2635 and this part. (ii) HHS
   components may specify internal procedures governing the submission of
   prior approval requests and designate appropriate officials to act on
   such requests. The instructions or manual issuances may include
   examples of outside employment and 5 CFR 5501 HHS Supplemental
   Standards of Ethical Conduct Page 7 other outside activities that are
   permissible or impermissible consistent with 5 CFR part 2635 and this
   part. With respect to teaching, speaking, writing, or editing
   activities, the instructions or manual issuances may specify
   preclearance procedures and/or require disclaimers indicating that the
   views expressed do not necessarily represent the views of the agency or
   the United States. (iii) The officials within the respective HHS
   components who are responsible for the administrative aspects of these
   regulations and the maintenance of records shall make provisions for
   the filing and retention of requests for approval of outside employment
   and other outside activities and copies of the notification of approval
   or disapproval. Sec. 5501.107 Teaching, speaking and writing by special
   Government employees in the Public Health Service. (a) Applicability.
   This section applies to special Government employees in the Public
   Health Service who otherwise are prohibited from accepting compensation
   for teaching, speaking or writing that is related to their official
   duties, within the meaning of 5 CFR 2635.807(a)(2)(i)(C), because the
   invitation or the offer of compensation for the activity was extended
   at a time when the special Government employee was assigned to perform
   official duties that may substantially affect the interests of the
   inviter or offeror. (b) Permissible compensation. A special Government
   employee may accept compensation for teaching, speaking or writing in
   circumstances described in paragraph (a) of this section only where the
   special Government employee recuses from the official assignment that
   may substantially affect the interests of the person who extended the
   invitation to engage in the activity or the offer of compensation. Sec.
   5501.108 Exception to the prohibition against assisting in the
   prosecution of claims against, or acting as an agent or attorney
   before, the Government, applicable only to employees assigned to
   federally recognized Indian tribes or Alaska Native villages or
   regional or village corporations pursuant to the Intergovernmental
   Personnel Act. (a) 18 U.S.C. 205. Section 205 of title 18 of the United
   States Code prohibits an employee, whether or not for compensation,
   from acting as an agent or attorney for anyone in a claim against the
   United States, or from acting in such capacity on behalf of another
   before any department, agency, or other specified entity, in any
   particular matter in which the United States is a party or has a direct
   and substantial interest. (b) Exception applicable only to employees
   assigned to federally recognized Indian tribes or Alaska Native
   villages or regional or village corporations pursuant to the
   Intergovernmental Personnel Act. Notwithstanding the provisions of 18
   U.S.C. 205, the Indian Self-Determination Act (25 U.S.C. 450i(f))
   authorizes Federal employees detailed or assigned to Indian tribes or
   Alaska Native villages or regional or village corporations, pursuant to
   the Intergovernmental Personnel Act (5 U.S.C. 3372), to act as agents
   or attorneys for, or appear on behalf of, such tribes or Alaska Native
   villages or corporations in connection with any matter pending before
   any department, agency, court, or commission, in which the United
   States is a party or has a direct and substantial interest. Such
   employees must advise, in writing, the head of the agency, with which
   they are dealing on behalf of an Indian tribe or Alaska Native village
   or corporation, of any personal and substantial involvement they may
   have had as an officer or employee of the United States in connection
   with the matter concerned. 5 CFR 5501 HHS Supplemental Standards of
   Ethical Conduct Page 8
