http://www-structure.llnl.gov/pdf/BIOS2002.pdf

   Call for Papers and Announcement High-Throughput Crystallography Using
   Synchrotron Radiation (BO34) Part of SPIE's International Symposium on
   BiOS 2002 1925 January 2002 San Jose Convention Center San Jose,
   California USA Conference Chair: Katherine Kantardjieff, California
   operations, and advanced phasing, model building and State
   Univ./Fullerton refinement methods. Ideal cases for highly automated
   mode of operation are those involving multiple Program Committee: Peter
   Kuhn, Stanford Linear anomalous dispersion or MAD data collection, but
   it is Accelerator Ctr.; Peter Lindley, ESRF (France); Gerry also
   possible to collect native, derivative, or high- McDermott, Lawrence
   Berkeley National Lab.; Robert resolution data. In some circumstances,
   crystal M. Sweet, Brookhaven National Lab.; Bernhard screening can be
   done. This conference will discuss the Rupp, Lawrence Livermore
   National Lab. use of third generation synchrotron sources for rapid
   structure determination, recent developments in The source
   characteristics of modern synchrotrons are instrumentation, automation,
   and computational tools. ideally suited to meet the challenges of high
   throughput New structures, elucidated using these advanced
   macromolecular crystallography. The high brilliance techniques and
   methods will be described. and high degree of collimation allow
   intensity data to be collected from very small, weakly diffracting
   crystals, A preliminary list of session topics is listed. Abstracts
   while wavelength tuneability facilitates multiple- are invited on these
   and related subjects: wavelength anomalous dispersion techniques to be
   used for phase determination. third-generation synchrotron sources
   developments in instrumentation In response to the growing need for
   frequent developments in automation synchrotron time by the protein
   crystallographic remote access community in the era of structural
   genomics, relatively recent advances in phasing, model building, and
   inexpensive and efficient means of beamline operation refinement
   methods are being developed. These include automated sample new
   structures changers, attractive suites of tools for remote monitoring
   and partial control of beamline Abstract Due Date: 25 June 2001
   Manuscript Due Date: 17 December 2001 Final Summary Due Date: 19
   November 2001 SPIE-The International Society for Optical Engineering
   SPIE-The International Society for Optical Engineering is dedicated to
   advancing scientific research and engineering applications of optical,
   photonic, imaging, and optoelectronic technologies through its
   meetings, education programs, and publications. 6XEPLVVLRQ RI $EVWUDFWV
   IRU %L26 V\PSRVLXP Abstract Due Date: 25 June 2001 Manuscript Due Date:
   17 December 2001 Final Summary Due Date: 19 November 2001 6XEPLVVLRQV
   LPSO\ WKH LQWHQW RI DW OHDVW RQH DXWKRU WR UHJLVWHU DWWHQG WKH
   V\PSRVLXP DQG SUHVHQW WKH SDSHU HLWKHU RUDOO\ RU LQ SRVWHU IRUPDW
   ,QVWUXFWLRQV IRU 6XEPLWWLQJ $EVWUDFWV
