http://hena.lbl.gov/E866/index.html


   HENA
   Home
   Page
   People
   STAR
   E866
   NuBE
   GMSD
   E878
   E896
   Transport
   UCB
   SSL
   LBNL
   INPA
   Community
   Service
   Comments
   Disclaimers,
   Copyrights
       [hena_sub.gif]
   [e866_tnb.gif]
   Investigate strange particle production in relativistic heavy ion
   collisions
   High energy nuclear collisions are known to produce copious amounts of
   strange particles. Strange matter is of particular interest to
   astrophysics because it may be the most stable form of nuclear matter.
   Strange matter may be the final state of neutron star evolution, and
   strange-quark nuggets may hold the key to the dark matter puzzle. Our
   group has been investigating strange particle production in
   nucleus-nucleus (AA) collisions in a series of experiments (E802, E859,
   & E866) at the Brookhaven National Lab Alternating Gradient
   Synchrotron. In E802, we first discovered that the strange quark
   production is significantly enhanced in AA collisions compared to pp
   collisions. The signature is an increase in the K+:pi+ ratio for SiA
   collisions, an effect that is even more striking for Au-Au collisions.

   Since the K+ carries the anti-s quark, this means that there may be a
   large number of s quarks left behind in the collision environment. A
   simple energy analysis of the Fermi levels formed in multi-quark
   systems suggests that these S quarks may combine with the more
   prevalent u and d quarks to form strangelets, small nuclear drops
   containing nearly equal numbers of u, d and s quarks.

   The E866 program at the AGS is the last in the series of particle
   survey experiments that the group performed at the AGS. The original
   program, E802, simply measured pi, K, and P spectra. E866 has evolved a
   more restrictive triggering, and has culminated in our ability to
   measure the size of the particle emitting volumes through pi, K and P
   interferometry. The K's are found to be emitted from a much smaller
   volume than the pi (radius 2.5 fm versus 4 fm), suggesting that the S
   quarks left behind are actually confined in a small volume. This of
   course increases the likelihood of their forming new agglomerates such
   as strangelets.

   The work in the E802-866 series has led to another series of AGS
   experiments (E858/878) which are more directly focused on answering the
   question of the existence of composite strange matter.
   REFERENCES
   M.I.T. Heavy Ion Group Documentation Alternating Gradient Synchrotron
