http://d3d.fsl.noaa.gov/symposium/davesd3dpaper.pdf

   J5.5 OPERATIONAL APPLICATIONS OF THREE DIMENSIONAL AIR PARCEL
   TRAJECTORIES USING AWIPS D3D David B. Barjenbruch* and Eric Thaler
   National Weather Service Forecast Office Boulder, Colorado and Edward
   J. Szoke NOAA Forecast Systems Laboratory Boulder, Colorado 1.
   INTRODUCTION 2. D3D TRAJECTORY COMPUTATION Perhaps one of the
   fundamental challenges facing D3D was derived from Vis5D software
   originally the operational meteorologist is understanding the fully
   developed at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. three-dimensional
   motion of the atmosphere, that is, The changes are explained by Szoke
   et. al (2001). visualizing air parcel trajectories. This is not a
   trivial Vis5D was created to examine and interact with large task and
   there have been few explicit methods of volumes of data and or model
   output from a research accomplishing this visualization. Until
   recently, the model. In research mode one can display model main tool
   at the forecaster's disposal for trajectory output at short time
   intervals, as desired, so analysis has been two-dimensional streamline
   computation of trajectories with Vis5D is relatively analysis. However,
   these two-dimensional streamline straight forward, as outlined in
   Hibbard (1986). In patterns neglect the vertical component of the flow
   and operations, bandwidth concerns limit the amount of duplicate
   horizontal trajectories only if they are model output that can be
   transmitted as full, three- stationary. As a consequence of these
   inadequacies, dimensional grids. In the case of AWIPS, this interval
   forecasters can be misled as the actual path that air for the Eta model
   is currently set at 6 hours, for the parcels take to arrive in an area
   of concern. This can examples shown in this paper. Clearly a
   computation lead to errors in temperatures and moisture forecasts of
   trajectories at 6 hour intervals without any among other problems.
   modification would lead to problems, and a trajectory that did not
   represent the forecast air motions very Because of its close proximity
   to the NOAA well. To overcome this, Vis5D (and therefore D3D) Forecast
   Systems Laboratory (FSL), the Boulder attempts to artificially shorten
   this lengthy time step by (formerly Denver) Weather Forecast Office
   (WFO) has applying a factor to the data, depending on the size of
   always served as a test bed for new development that the domain, that
   creates much small time steps. In the often becomes part of AWIPS. One
   recent case of the Eta model and the AWIPS domain, the 6 development
   has been to test AWIPS on a PC platform hour interval is divided into
   approximately 130 such using Linux, rather than the HP-Unix
   workstations steps. While this cannot replace the use of 130 actual
   currently in use. This workstation has been running time steps, if they
   were available, in our experience the Display Two-Dimensional (D2D),
   and with its sufficient trajectories created by D3D have looked quite
   realistic computing power is also used as a platform to run and are
   usually fairly smooth. Display Three-Dimensional (D3D), following the
   port of the D3D software to Linux. The D3D software that 3. FORECAST
   EXAMPLE runs as part of the Linux PC AWIPS eliminates much of the
   aforementioned difficulties in visualizing air A case study from 8
   September 2001 illustrates parcel trajectories in an operational mode.
   While D3D the utility of D3D and the advantages over the old two- is a
   software package containing numerous data sets dimensional analysis
   method. This case was and a vast array of display capabilities, this
   characterized by an unseasonably strong upper level presentation will
   concentrate on the utility of air parcel trough moving southeast from
   Alberta across the Rocky trajectories. Specifically, comparisons will
   be made Mountains and Colorado. Initially, only light between the old
   two-dimensional methods of precipitation was associated with this
   system as it estimating trajectories and the new D3D methods moved
   southeastward. However, increasing Quasi- available in AWIPS.
   Geostrophic forcing was forecast to react with a moist and slightly
   unstable airmass, along with north-
   __________________________________________ northeasterly upslope flow
   over eastern Colorado. * Corresponding author address: David
   Barjenbruch, While the above dynamical factors would have alerted
   National Weather Service, 325 Broadway, the operational forecaster to a
   potential significant Boulder, CO 80305-3328; weather event, the use of
   D3D trajectories helped the e-mail: David.Barjenbruch@noaa.gov
   forecaster accurately assess where air parcels at separate levels in
   the atmosphere were originating. This aided the forecaster in
   quantifying the actual amount of vertical motion a parcel underwent as
   it moved to the area of interest. Figures 1a through 1c show a top view
   of the air parcel trajectories for the 12, 18, and 24 hour forecast
   periods from the 1200 UTC 7 September 2001 Eta model run. Note these
   trajectories are for parcels that terminated near Denver at 1200 UTC 8
   September 2001. It can be seen that the low level parcels Fig. 1c. Same
   as Figure 1a except 24 hour forecast valid at 1200 UTC 8 September
   2001. originated in southern Saskatchewan and extreme northern Montana
   where surface temperatures were generally in the 45°F to 50°F range and
   dewpoints were near 40°F. If we rotate the view to the east for the 24
   hour forecast (Figure 2), we can obtain additional Fig. 1a. Eta 12 hour
   parcel trajectory forecast (top view) valid at 0000 UTC 8 September
   2001. Fig. 2. ETA 24 hour trajectory forecast (east view) valid at 1200
   UTC 8 September 2001. information. For example, the parcels that
   originated Fig. 1b. Same as Figure 1a except 18 hour forecast near 850
   mb over southern Saskatchewan rose sharply valid at 0600 UTC 8
   September 2001. when they reached eastern Colorado, reaching near 500
   mb by 1200 UTC 8 September. With that amount of upward vertical motion,
   it became evident that a widespread and significant precipitation event
   was likely to occur. In fact, over an inch of rain fell in most of the
   Boulder and Denver, Colorado metro areas, while heavy snow occurred in
   the Front Range valid time and all vertical motion is excluded. The
   mountains and foothills above 6500 feet where up to 13 forecaster is
   left to interpret the exact path the parcel inches of snow was
   recorded. This snow level was has taken, which may lead to forecast
   errors. consistent with the upstream temperatures, dewpoints, and
   resultant wet bulb zero level observed at the point 4. SUMMARY AND
   CONCLUSIONS of origin. The AWIPS D3D software has been used In addition
   to the above figures showing column operationally at the Boulder,
   Colorado National trajectories (trajectory parcels ending at various
   levels Weather Service Forecast Office since May 2001. at a specific
   point at a single valid time) other means of D3D air parcel
   trajectories have been shown to be trajectory display are also
   available in D3D. For advantageous over D2D streamline analysis,
   largely example, trajectory time series generate a parcel attributable
   to the ability to show vertical motion and trajectory for a specific
   point for every valid time in any continuity of the parcel(s) of
   concern. This has numerical weather prediction model run. This would
   allowed the operational forecaster to improve indicate where air
   parcels would have originated 6, 12, meteorological understanding and
   forecast techniques, 18, 24, 48, etc. hours ago before reaching the
   specified including applications of conceptual models. point of
   interest. Trajectories may also be generated for numerous points along
   North-South or East-West With increased use and familiarization with
   D3D, oriented lines providing assistance in determining the operational
   forecaster will have a better three-dimensional motions of the
   atmosphere. understanding of air flow trajectories in a given weather
   pattern. This is expected to result in improved Once D3D trajectories
   are calculated, forecasters moisture, temperature, cloud, and
   precipitation are able to color code them according to numerous
   forecasts. Some examples where D3D may aid parameters such as pressure,
   height, temperature, operational forecasts include significant weather
   lapse rate, theta-e, etc. Flexible color table can then be events
   associated with well-developed cyclones, the applied in order to
   highlight particular features or levels onset of summer monsoon and
   convection in the of interest. For instance, this capability was used
   to Desert Southwest, and the development of upslope isolate an area of
   subsidence that substantially clouds and precipitation in and near
   mountainous diminished convective development over the southern
   terrain. Additional case studies and air parcel Front Range Foothills
   of Colorado on 6 August 2001. trajectory visualization methods will be
   presented at the conference. While conventional Display Two Dimensions
   (D2D) has the functionality to display streamlines, it is not 5.
   REFERENCES capable of showing trajectories, except for a limited
   trajectory data set based on the NGM. Even then, data Reap, R. M.,
   1992: The Techniques Development is confined to a few parameters and
   only three levels: Laboratory Three-Dimensional Trajectory Model.
   surface; 850 mb; and 700 mb (Reap, 1992). In Technical Procedures
   Bulletin (TPB) 397, National addition, D2D streamlines (Figure 3) are
   only a Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), "snapshot" of
   trajectories at a given point and given U.S. Department of Commerce,
   11pp. Szoke, E. J., 2002: D3D: Overview, Update and Future Plans.
   Preprints, Interactive Symposium on AWIPS, Orlando, FL, Amer. Meteor.
   Soc. Hibbard, W. L., 1986: Computer Generated Imagery for 4-D
   Meteorological Data. Bull. Amer. Meteor. Soc., 67, 1362-1369. Fig. 3.
   ETA 500 mb (dark) and 700 mb (light) D2D streamlines valid at 1200 UTC
   8 September 2001.
