http://www.ohsb.uscourts.gov/EBN.htm

   Electronic Bankruptcy Noticing

                   For the United States Bankruptcy Court

                          Southern District of Ohio
   [homesub.gif]

                                                              Email and
   Fax Notices
   The United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of Ohio is
   now offering a new way
   for you to receive bankruptcy notices from the Court. You can now
   choose to receive overnight
   bankruptcy notices via internet email or by fax. Electronic noticing by
   these methods will provide
   notices much faster than the postal service,and it's free.
   Electronic Bankruptcy Noticing (EBN) is provided by the Bankruptcy
   Noticing Center(BNC).
   Detailed information about this service is available at
   www.EBNuscourts.com. For noticing via
   email, the notice will be sent to you in Adobe's PDF format (the
   PDFreader can be downloaded
   for free at Adobe's website, www.adobe.com). Your email provider must
   also support the return
   receipt function so that the BNC can verify that you received the
   notice. There is an easy-to-use test
   facility built into the web site so that you can quickly verify whether
   your email provider supports
   return receipts. If you currently are without an email provider or your
   service does not support the
   return-receipt function, a representative list of EBN-compliant email
   providers is also available
   at the web site.

   To begin receiving notices electronically, you need only complete an
   Electronic Bankruptcy Noticing
   Agreement and submit it to the Bankruptcy Noticing Center (BNC). The
   necessary forms can be found
   at www.EBNuscourts.com. The Court has delegated subscriber registration
   to the BNC, so be sure to
   use the link that says "Noticing Agreement-Send to BNC." Do not send
   your noticing agreement to the
   Court. Complete instructions are included with the form. All you need
   to do is choose whether to receive
   notices by email or fax, give the required information, and send it to
   the BNC at the address provided.
   If you have any questions, the BNC can assist you at 877.837.3424.

   Although participation is voluntary, the Court is encouraging as many
   of its noticing recipients as
   possible to take advantage of electronic noticing. Unlike traditional
   mail service, electronic noticing
   is more reliable because receipt is verified by the BNC, and it's more
   convenient because the notices
   arrive much sooner than postal mail and come right to your computer or
   fax machine. Finally,
   electronic noticing reduces costs for recipients and the Court alike.

   [homesub.gif]
