http://www.dbw.ca.gov/law_enf.htm

   [USEMAP:Navbar.gif] [USEMAP:logo.gif]


Boating Law Enforcement

     * 2002 Marine Law Enforcement trainging calendar
     * Marine Law Enforcement Training MOU

   To meet Cal Boating's major objective to protect the public's right to
   safe and enjoyable boating on the waterways of California, the
   Enforcement Unit has established two primary goals:
     * To provide for adequate boating law enforcement through local
       agencies.
     * To ensure that enforcement of California boating laws is uniform
       throughout the State.

   The Enforcement Unit meets these goals through programs that provide
   financial aid and officer training to local boating law enforcement
   agencies. Cal Boating provides grants to local governments to fund
   boating enforcement activities and equipment purchases and train
   boating law enforcement officers, as detailed below.

   Boating Safety and Enforcement Financial Aid Program

   Cal Boating's Boating Safety and Enforcement Financial Aid Program was
   established to provide supplemental state funding to local governments
   whose tax base from resident boaters is insufficient to support an
   adequate boating safety and law enforcement program. An agency must
   first expend the fees and taxes collected from its resident boat owners
   before qualifying for supplemental state funding. The amount of
   financial aid is determined by available state funds, the size of the
   waterways under the requesting agency's jurisdiction, as well as the
   amount of boat use.

   These funds are used for operation, maintenance, equipment costs and
   augmenting personnel. Services supported by this aid include: enforcing
   State and local boating regulations, assisting boaters in distress,
   conducting search-and-rescue (SAR) operations, inspecting vessels, and
   supervising organized boating events.

   The financial aid program also provides federal grant funds to local
   governments for the purchase of patrol boats and other equipment
   necessary to ensure adequate enforcement of State boating safety laws
   and regulations.

   Boating Law Enforcement Training Program

   California boating law is enforced by more than 100 public agencies
   throughout the State. However, boaters can expect the law to be
   enforced uniformly on all of the state's waterways because of Cal
   Boating's extensive Boating Law Enforcement Training Program.

   Cal Boating conducts numerous classes in boating safety and enforcement
   which are certified by the California State Commission on Peace Officer
   Standards and Training (POST). These training classes instruct officers
   on boating law, required equipment, and other related subjects.

   Two areas of officer training Cal Boating emphasizes are "Boating Under
   the Influence" (BUI) enforcement and personal watercraft (PWC)
   operation. Many local marine law enforcement agencies use PWC in SAR
   and patrol operations.

   Additionally, Cal Boating works closely with the California Association
   of Harbor Masters and Port Captains and the California Boating Safety
   Officers Association to maintain a Boating Water Rescue and Enforcement
   Course for entities involved in coastal boating law enforcement and
   search and rescue. This course, designed to provide training in a wide
   range of enforcement and search-and-rescue activities, includes classes
   in navigation, boat handling, marine fire fighting and boating law
   enforcement. When an officer has successfully completed all segments of
   the course, he or she is entitled to receive a "Master's Certificate"
   from Cal Boating in recognition of fulfilling all requirements of the
   Boating Water Rescue and Enforcement Course.
