http://flameglo.lbl.gov/NOPP.html

               Autonomous Monitoring of the Ocean's Carbon System

  Ocean Biogeochemical Processes Group LBNL

   Autonomous Monitoring. Satellites like SeaWiFS 'see' the surface only
   when clouds are absent. Ships are able to remain on station for a few
   days. In spite of the power of such observations, it is nearly
   impossible to follow the growth and death of phytoplankton (which
   occurs on a daily basis). The need to ground truth satellite
   observations coupled with limitations of ship-board sampling abilities
   dictate the development of autonomously operating vehicles deployed in
   the oceanic water column. Our interest is to exploit inexpensive
   vehicles that are capable of profiling the water column twice a day and
   returning information on carbon system parameters, upper ocean
   temperature and salinity via a satellite communications link.

   The basis for such an approach comes from JGOFS process study results
   obtained using MULVFS [Bishop, 1999; Bishop et al. 1999] and laboratory
   studies now in progress at LBNL. Results suggest that such vehicles can
   be augmented with low power optical sensors for Particulate Organic
   Carbon (POC) Particulate Inorganic Carbon (PIC).

                     SOLO-carbon Explorer SOLO position

   Autonomous platform which we will use for carbon system observations.
   Left. schematic of the Sounding Oceanograph Lagrangian Observer (SOLO).
   This proven lagrangian profiling float has been widely deployed in the
   oceans for ocean physics observations. Over 800 have been deployed to
   date. The profiler changes its buoyancy by pumping hydraulic oil
   between reservoirs inside and outside of its pressure case. Middle.
   SOLO-carbon Explorer Prototype with attached WETLabs Inc POC meter.
   Right. Position of two SOLO-Explorers which were deployed in the
   Subarctic Pacific near Station PAPA (50N 145W) on April 10 2001, green
   indicates the most recent week.

   References:

   Bishop, J.K.B. (1999) Transmissometer Measurement of POC. Deep-Sea
   Research I. 46(2) 353-369.

   Bishop, J.K.B., S.E. Calvert, and M. Y.-S. Soon (1999). Spatial and
   Temporal Variability of POC in the Northeast Subarctic Pacific.
   Deep-Sea Research II. 46(11-12) 2699-2733.

   Support:

   This work is supported by the Office of Naval Research under the
   National Oceanographic Partnership Program (NOPP). The project
   description may be read here.
   Related project Project ARGO

  Return to ...

   [OBP_button.gif] Ocean Biogeochemical Processes Home Page
