http://www.compliance.gov/images/gage.pdf

   OFFICE OF COMPLIANCE LA 200, John Adams Building, 110 Second Street,
   S.E. Washington, DC 20540-1999 __________________________________
   WILLIAM H. GAGE, ) Appellant (Employee), ) ) v. ) Case No. 00-AC-21(CV)
   ) OFFICE OF THE ARCHITECT OF ) THE CAPITOL, ) ) Appellee (Employing
   Office). ) _________________________________ ) Before the Board of
   Directors: Susan S. Robfogel, Chair; Barbara L. Camens, Alan V.
   Friedman; Roberta L. Holzwarth; Barbara Childs Wallace, Members.
   DECISION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS William H. Gage, an African
   American, ("appellant"), appeals only from that portion of the Hearing
   Officer's Decision and Order, dated April 25, 2001, concluding that the
   Office of the Architect of the Capitol ("appellee") did not racially
   discriminate against him with respect to his application for the
   position of Assistant Superintendent of the Capitol Building,
   GS-1601-13/14, ("Capitol Position").1 For the reasons set forth below,
   the Board affirms the Hearing Officer's Decision. I. The appellant
   entered the appellee's employ in June 1997. In February 1998, he was
   promoted to the position of Supervisory Service Compliance Specialist
   (GS-1601-12) in the House Office Buildings, a position he still
   occupies. [H. O. Decision, Finding No. 2].2 During the latter part of
   1999, the appellant applied for four promotional opportunities through
   the appellee's Human Resources Management Division. The Division's
   Acting Chief, Ms. Medlin 1The Hearing Officer also concluded that the
   record contained no evidence to establish that the appellee
   contemporaneously filled three other contested vacancies with persons
   less qualified than the appellant. [H.O. Decision, Finding No. 8]. The
   appellant asserts that only the Capitol Position is the subject of his
   appeal. [appellant's brief, page 2]. 2The Hearing Officer's factual
   findings shall be referenced as numbered in his decision. His
   conclusions of law will be referenced to decision page numbers.
   (Caucasian), determined that the appellant was not minimally
   qualified3for one position at the Supreme Court and the two positions
   in the House office buildings. The selectees for those positions were
   one African American and two Caucasian individuals. [H.O. Decision,
   Finding No. 8]. Those selections are not in issue in this appeal. See,
   footnote 2, supra. Appellant's application for the Assistant
   Superintendent of the Capitol Building vacancy ("Capitol Position"),
   which is the subject of this appeal, was processed entirely by Ms.
   Scriber, an African American and a subordinate of Ms. Medlin. In
   reviewing the appellant's application package, Ms. Scriber concluded
   that neither the appellant's prior military experience nor his
   experience with the appellee satisfied the required one-year
   specialized GS-12 level experience for the Capitol Position. In seeking
   to favor the appellant (Ms. Scriber and the appellant formerly were
   residential neighbors), Ms. Scriber sought the judgment of her
   colleague, Mr. Cortez. However, Mr. Cortez also believed that the
   appellant was not minimally qualified. Before finding the appellant not
   minimally qualified Ms. Scriber did not discuss the matter with her
   supervisor, Ms. Medlin. Ms. Scriber did find as minimally qualified Mr.
   Donald Keith White (Caucasian), who was ultimately selected for the
   Capitol Position. [H.O. Decision, Findings 10-15]. 4 Subsequent to
   learning that the appellee had rated him as not minimally qualified for
   the aforementioned four vacancies, appellant had several conversations
   with Ms. Medlin, and a meeting with Ms. Medlin and her supervisor, Mr.
   Suarez (Hispanic). Unpersuaded by their explanations, the appellant
   sought the assistance of his Congressman, who wrote to the appellee.
   The appellee responded with a letter drafted by Ms. Medlin, explaining
   why the appellant's application did not support a rating of minimally
   qualified. [H.O. Decision, Findings 18-19]. Ms. Medlin acknowledged at
   the hearing that Ms. Scriber's qualification review sheet evaluating
   the appellant's application was "not well completed" and contained "a
   lot of inconsistencies and irregularities".5 The Hearing Officer found
   that Ms. Scriber lacked adequate training to perform her job properly
   and he provided examples: (1)she did not know how to evaluate the
   appellant's military experience; and (2) she was unfamiliar with the
   "Add-on" qualifications rule that would have allowed the appellant's
   experience with the appellee to satisfy the subject position's one-year
   specialized experience requirement. [H.O. Decision, Finding Nos. 11-13
   &22]. 32A finding of minimally qualified allows an applicant further
   promotion consideration. [H.O. Decision, No. 9]. 4Twenty-five persons
   applied for the Capitol Position vacancy. Ms. Scriber rated 17
   applicants as qualified and 8 applicants as non-qualified. Mr. White
   was selected from the qualified group. The record does not disclose the
   racial composition of the applicant pool. [Hearing Exhibit No. 1]. 5Ms.
   Medlin testified, without contradiction, that she did not directly or
   indirectly review Ms. Scriber's work on the subject merit promotion
   action before it was certified to the selecting official. [Transcript
   ("Tr"), p. 64]. The appellant presented the hearing testimony of Ms.
   Greene, a GS-14 Management and Program Analyst at the Federal Aviation
   Authority, whom the appellee employed during the mid- 1990's in its
   merit promotion function. The Hearing Officer credited her conclusions
   that based upon her evaluation of appellant's military experience and
   the proper application of the Add-on Rule, that the appellant was
   minimally qualified for the Capitol Position. The Hearing Officer
   further found, upon Ms. Greene's testimony, that the selectee, Mr.
   White, "was given an unfair improper advantage in the competition for
   the Capitol position". Ms. Greene opined that Mr. White's documented
   experience was not qualifying and he had been advantaged "[t]hrough
   unofficial, non-competitive placement, contrary to the [Architect's]
   merit selection policy".6 Ms. Medlin's hearing testimony acknowledged
   that Mr. White had gained an unfair advantage over other applicants
   because those "Acting" assignments were undocumented; however, she did
   not believe that those irregularities should prejudice Mr. White
   regarding his promotion to the Capitol Position. [H.O.Decision, Finding
   Nos. 20-25]. II. Relying upon McDonnell Douglas Corp. v. Green, 411
   U.S. 792 (1973), the Hearing Officer concluded that the appellant met
   his burden of establishing a prima facie showing of discrimination by
   proving: (1) he is a member of a protected group (African American);
   (2) he applied for and was qualified for a job that the employer was
   seeking to fill; and (3) that the appellee rejected his application and
   awarded the job to a less qualified candidate who is not a member of
   the appellant's protected class. [H.O. Decision, pp. 14-16]. The
   Hearing Officer then applied the second prong of McDonnell Douglas
   Corp. v.Green,, which requires an employer to articulate a legitimate
   non-discriminatory explanation for its action. The appellee submitted
   that Ms. Scriber, who found that the appellant was not minimally
   qualified and that Mr. White was so qualified, "genuinely and honestly
   believed that those were true and correct qualification
   determinations". The Hearing Officer accepted this "genuinely held
   belief" defense citing Willis v. Marion County Auditor's Office, 118
   F.3d 542, 548 (7th Cir. 1997). The Hearing Officer found that Ms.
   Scriber was mistaken in her qualification determinations, "probably due
   to inadequate training and the press of an excessive workload [but] she
   genuinely believed them". He also found that her qualifying of Mr.
   White was nothing "other than an honest, albeit erroneous call,
   particularly since his application essentially showed that, for the
   preceding 22 months, he had held, on an `acting' basis, the very job
   sought to be filled and the one immediately above it". [H.O. Decision,
   pp. 16-17]. The Hearing Officer, while accepting the appellee's
   explanation, concluded, arguendo, that even if he rejected the
   appellee's explanation as pretextual, he still would not infer
   discrimination based upon this record. In this regard, the Hearing
   Officer noted that the record lacked even a hint of racial animus or
   discrimination, that an African American found the appellant not to be
   minimally qualified, and that the one non-minority, Ms. Medlin, "played
   no crucial role with respect to qualifying applicants for the Capitol
   position". The Hearing Officer 6Mr. White's merit promotion application
   referred to his experience and accomplishments as "Acting Assistant
   Superintendent" and "Acting Deputy Superintendent" of the Capitol
   Building. [Complainant's Exhibit no. 12]. criticized the performance of
   appellee's human resources operation but noted that Title VII of the
   Civil Rights Act of 1964, while prohibiting discrimination, "does not
   guarantee that all of an employer's personnel decisions will be correct
   or even fair". [H.O. Decision, pp.17-20]. III. The appellant argues on
   appeal that the Hearing Officer should have found discrimination
   essentially because: (1) Ms. Medlin had a legal duty and obligation to
   audit the work of an incompetent subordinate, Ms. Scriber, who
   mis-evaluated the appellant as not qualified for the Capitol Position;7
   (2) Ms. Medlin improperly ratified Ms. Scriber's determination;8 (3)
   the successful candidate, Mr. White, committed serious impropriety by
   including false qualifying information on his application;9 (4) Ms.
   Scriber's good faith belief is irrelevant because Ms. Medlin was really
   the decision maker;10 (5) the Hearing Officer considered defenses of
   inadequate training and workload that the appellee never offered;11 and
   (6) the Hearing Officer, throughout his conclusions of law, has shown
   "an obvious bias in favor of the [appellee]. He has made conclusions
   that are supported with half-truths and outright false acts."12 The
   appellee characterizes appellant's appeal as containing "an abundance
   of sweeping charges". The appellee counters that evidence of
   discrimination of any kind is "glaringly absent" from the record.
   7Appellant presented no case law in support of his contention that such
   alleged negligent supervision may evidence racial discrimination. 8This
   contention apparently refers to Ms. Medlin's participation at a meeting
   with the appellant and the appellee's human resources director after
   the filling of the Capitol Position. 9The appellant does not contend,
   nor does the record disclose, that Ms. Scriber knew or suspected that
   Mr. White had mis-characterized his qualifications at the that time
   that she evaluated his application. 10The record contains no evidence
   disclosing that Ms. Medlin had any role regarding the evaluation of the
   appellant's qualifications for the Capitol Position until after the
   position had been filled. See footnote 8, supra and Hearing Transcript
   p. 64. 11Ms. Medlin testified that her office was in a workload crisis
   when it considered the appellant's Capitol Position application due to
   its skeleton staff of 3 and its need to fill vacancies consequent to
   appellee's 72 employees who elected early retirement or buyouts in
   October 1999. [Hearing Transcript, pp. 84-86]. 12Appellant supports
   this allegation only by his disagreement with certain of the Hearing
   Officer's findings. IV. Under section 406(c) of the Congressional
   Accountability Act ("CAA"), "[t]he Board shall set aside a decision of
   a hearing officer if the Board determines that the decision was - (1)
   arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not
   consistent with law; (2) not made consistent with required procedures;
   or (3) unsupported by substantial evidence." [2 U.S.C. ยง1406(c)] "In
   making determinations under subsection (c), the Board shall review the
   whole record, or those parts of it cited by a party, and due account
   shall be taken of the rule of prejudicial error." [2 U.S.C. ยง1406(d)].
   This appeal raises the ultimate question of whether the appellee's
   explanation for finding the appellant not qualified for promotion
   constitutes a pretext, ruse or subterfuge to mask unlawful racial
   discrimination. The ultimate burden of persuading the trier of fact
   that the defendant intentionally discriminated against the plaintiff
   remains at all times on the plaintiff. See McDonnell Douglas Corp. v.
   Green, supra, and Texas Department of Community Affairs v. Burdine, 450
   U.S. 248 (1981). Once a defendant articulates some legitimate
   non-discriminatory reason for its challenged action, the burden shifts
   back to the plaintiff, who must demonstrate that the defendant's
   explanation is but a pretext for discrimination.. See St. Mary's Honor
   Society v. Hicks, 509 U.S. 502 (1993) and Reeves v. Sanderson Plumbing
   Products, Inc., 530 U.S. 133 (2000); Swanks v. Washington Metro. Area
   Transit Auth., 179 F.3d 929 (D.C. Cir. 1999); Ruiz, et al. v. A.B.
   Chance Co., 234 F.3d 654, 671-2 (Fed. Cir. 2000). Accordingly, the
   plaintiff must allege more than a dispute over the facts upon which the
   challenged action was based. The plaintiff must put forth evidence
   which demonstrates that the employer did not "honestly believe" in the
   proffered non-discriminatory reason for its adverse employment action.
   See Braithwaite v. Timken, 258 F.3d 488, 494 (6th Cir. 2001); Carpenter
   v. Federal National Mortgage Association, 174 F.3d 231, 237 (D.C. Cir.
   1999); Fischbach v. District of Columbia Dept. of Corrections, 86 F.3d
   1180, 1183 (D.C. Cir. 1996). The testimony of appellant's witness, Ms.
   Greene, while establishing the appellee's errors in evaluating the
   appellant's qualifications and those of the selectee, Mr. White, shed
   no light on why the appellee so erred. The Hearing Officer, based upon
   the hearing testimony of appellee's responsible employee, Ms. Scriber,
   and the workload hardships her office was then operating under,
   concluded that Ms. Scriber "genuinely believed" in her qualification
   determinations. He further found that Ms. Scriber had made "an honest,
   albeit erroneous call ". The Hearing Officer declined to infer
   discrimination, noting "[T]here is not a hint of racial discrimination
   in this record". [H.O. Decision, pp. 16-20]. The Hearing Officer's
   rationale is supported by the case law. If in truth an agency's or an
   employer's verified, detailed and documented inefficiency, absent any
   discriminatory animus, accounts for results that nonetheless appear at
   first glance to be the product of discrimination, it would be the
   height of unfairness to infer fallaciously such a discriminatory
   animus. We do not mean to condone inefficiency; we simply cannot punish
   it under Title VII. With solace, we note: the phrase "to raise a shield
   of inefficiency," no matter how well factored and documented, does not
   translate automatically as "to fend off a claim of discrimination;" a
   claimant may show pretext. Hazel Hill v. Mississippi State Employment
   Service, et al., 918 F.2d 1233, at 1239-1240 (5th Cir. 1990). In
   Fischbach v. D.C. Department of Corrections, 86 F.3d 1180 (D.C. Cir.
   1996), the Court of Appeals stated: At this point, the district court
   seems to have lost its compass. Even if a court suspects that a job
   applicant "was victimized by poor selection procedures" it may not
   "second- guess an employer's personnel decision absent demonstrably
   discriminatory motive." Milton v. Weinberger, 696 F.2d 94 (D.C. Cir.
   1982). Once the employer has articulated a non-discriminatory
   explanation for its action, as did the District here, the issue is not
   "the correctness or desirability of [the] reasons offered ...[but]
   whether the employer honestly believes in the reasons it offers." McCoy
   v. WGN Continental Broadcasting Co., 957 F.2d 368, 373 (7th Cir. 1992).
   See also Pignato v. American Trans. Air. Inc., 14 F.3d 342, 349 (7th
   Cir.1994) ("It is not enough for the plaintiff to show that a reason
   given for a job action is not just, or fair, or sensible. He must show
   that the explanation given is a phony reason"). Evidence indicating
   that an employer misjudged an employee's performance or qualifications
   is, of course, relevant to the question whether its stated reason is a
   pretext masking prohibited discrimination, see Parker v. HUD, 891 F.2d
   316, 322 (D.C. Cir. 1989); if the employer made an error too obvious to
   be unintentional, perhaps it had an unlawful motive for doing so . . .
   . See also Carpenter v. Federal National Mortgage Association, 174 F.3d
   231, 236 (D.C. Cir. 1999). "Substantial evidence is more than a mere
   scintilla. It means such relevant evidence as a reasonable mind might
   accept as adequate to support a conclusion." Universal Camera Corp. v.
   National Labor Relations Board, 340 U.S. 474, 477 (1951). The Hearing
   Officer, based upon substantial record evidence,13 found that the
   appellee rendered honestly held, albeit erroneous, qualification
   assessments of the appellee and the successful applicant, Mr. White,
   for the Capitol Position vacancy. The Hearing Officer reached this
   result through his careful balancing and weighing of the evidence,
   credibility assessments, and application of the applicable legal
   principles. The Hearing Officer emphasized that the appellee's staffing
   specialists, such as Ms. Scriber, were not properly trained
   specifically in making the determinations that harmed the appellant and
   unduly advantaged the successful candidate (e.g., evaluating military
   experience and temporary duty detail assignments; and application of
   the "Add-on Rule"). [H.O. Decision, 13The hearing testimony of Staffing
   Specialists Scriber & Cortez and their supervisor, Ms. Medlin. p. 19].
   While another fact finder conceivably might have drawn contrary
   inferences when reviewing this record de novo, that certainly is not
   the Board's role under the substantial evidence standard. In any event,
   racial discrimination Title VII liability cannot rest solely upon a
   judge's determination that an employer misjudged the relative
   qualifications of admittedly qualified candidates. See Fischbach v.
   D.C. Dep't of Corr., id., 86 F.3d at 1183. A judge's role is to find
   and remedy unlawful discriminatory hiring practices and not to act as a
   "super personnel department" that second guesses employer's business
   judgments. See Simms v. Oklahoma ex rel. Dep't of Mental Health &
   Substance Abuse Servs., 165 F.3d 1321, 1330 (10th Cir.1999), cert.
   denied, 528 U.S. 815 (1999). We do not believe that the record contains
   evidence warranting a finding that the appellee's articulated
   legitimate non-discriminatory explanation for not promoting the
   appellant was a "phony"one. See Fischbach v. D.C. Dep't of Corr., id.,
   86 F.3d at 1183. Such evidence may include, but is not limited to, the
   following: prior treatment of the plaintiff; the employer's policy and
   practices regarding minority employment (including statistical data);
   disturbing procedural irregularities (e.g., falsifying or manipulating
   hiring criteria); and the use of subjective criteria. See Simms v.
   Oklahoma ex rel.Dep't of Mental Health & Substance Abuse Servs, 165
   F.3d 1321, at 1328. The appellant entered the appellee's employ in June
   1997 and he received his first promotion in February 1998. His four
   unsuccessful promotion applications, including that raised in this
   appeal, occurred in the latter part of calendar 1999. [H.O. Decision,
   pp. 1-2]. Accordingly, the appellee's prior treatment of the appellant
   does not support a finding of pretext. Moreover, the record is devoid
   of evidence identifying any incriminating appellee policy or practice
   regarding minority employment, disturbing procedural irregularities14,
   or the use of subjective criteria.15 The Board particularly notes that
   the record contains no evidence disclosing how the appellee, in respect
   to the other applicants for the Capitol Position, credited their prior
   military experience and applied the "Add-on Rule". Such evidence might
   have disclosed whether the 14The Hearing Officer found that the
   Staffing Branch, on a non-discriminatory across- the board- basis,
   failed to provide the appellant and all other applicants with written
   notice concerning the outcome of the vacancy announcements, as required
   by the appellee's policy. [H.O. Decision, pp. 3-4]. 15Staffing
   Specialist Scriber applied the published U.S. Office of Personnel
   Management's X-118 standards in assessing the qualifications of the
   appellant and the other applicants for the Capitol Building position.
   [H.O. Decision, Finding No. 9]. Ms. Scriber's misapplied those
   standards in not crediting the appellant's prior military experience
   and by not affording him the benefit of the "Add-on"
   experience-qualifying rule. While such errors may be construed as
   constituting subjective criteria, there is no evidence that her
   misinterpretations were disparately applied to applicants on the basis
   of race or upon any other proscribed basis. appellee acted consistently
   on a non-racial basis in making those determinations or if the appellee
   applied them in a racially disparate manner. Moreover, no comparative
   evidence was presented disclosing whether improperly credited
   undocumented detail experience, such as that accorded to the successful
   applicant, was denied to similarly situated African American
   applicants. Such evidence, if presented, might have been highly
   probative. However, it was the appellant's burden to produce such
   evidence under the McDonnell Douglas paradigm. .See St. Mary's Honor
   Society v. Hicks, 509 U.S. 502 (1993) ; Reeves v. Sanderson Plumbing
   Products, Inc., 530 U.S. 133 (2000); Swanks v. Washington Metro. Area
   Transit Auth., 179 F.3d 929 (D.C. Cir. 1999); Ruiz, et al. v. A.B.
   Chance Co., 234 F.3d 654, 671-2 (Fed. Cir. 2000).16 V. The Board, for
   the reasons set forth above, affirms the Hearing Officer's decision. It
   is so ordered. Issued, Washington, D.C. : November 14, 2001 16The
   Hearing Officer, while concluding that the appellee did not racially
   discriminate against the appellant, opined that "[W]hat [the appellee]
   did in [the appellant's] case was not right". [H.O. Decision, p. 20].
   There is no indication that the appellant exercised his rights under
   any applicable grievance procedure to pursue his claims alleging
   violation of appellee's merit promotion system.
