http://counter.chp.ca.gov/html/savingenergy.html


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                          California Highway Patrol
                          Commissioner's Welcome
                          Q & A
                          Publications
                          What We Do
                          Offices
                          News and Public Notices
                          History
                          Careers
                          Traffic Incidents
                          Related Sites
                          Site Map

                            * Energy Conservation



   CHP motto - 'Safety and Service'



   __________ search
      (*)  My CA


   What is the CHP doing to save energy?


   Flex Your Power - Be Energy Efficient The California Highway Patrol
   (CHP) is reducing the consumption of electricity in its 130 occupied
   facilities throughout the state with changes to its facility
   operational procedures and increased employee awareness. In addition,
   the 10,000 employees of the CHP are encouraged to reduce energy use in
   their homes and to carry the conservation message to their families,
   friends, and local communities.

   A major portion of the CHP's plan is devoted to the challenge of
   engaging the public and businesses in efforts to voluntarily reduce
   electrical consumption. CHP efforts will be expanded to cover our
   numerous daily contacts with the public and businesses throughout the
   state. These efforts will include:
     * Personal messages from the Commissioner
     * Mass mailings
     * Local appearances
     * Internet messages and a variety of other strategies

   The CHP will use the year 2000 as the base period for measuring
   reductions in electrical consumption, and is working with electrical
   service providers to obtain baseline data for its facilities. For
   example, Pacific Gas and Electric has provided monthly data for 156 CHP
   accounts. Last year the CHP consumed 20.6 million kilowatt hours at
   those locations. The goal will be to reduce this amount by two million
   kilowatt hours (10 percent reduction).

   In order to achieve this target reduction in electrical energy
   consumption, the CHP is adopting and implementing a comprehensive
   strategy that includes utilization of conservation technologies, energy
   conservation practices and policies, and increased employee awareness
   measures.
     * Energy saving features will be included in bid specifications and
       procurement of electronic devices. For example, computers that are
       acquired will be capable of being placed into sleep mode after a
       period of inactivity.
     * Timers and motion sensors for lighting and other electrical
       equipment will be evaluated for implementation.

   Other policies and practices that CHP is implementing during this
   crisis include the following:
     * The Department's Command Management Plan (CMP) will be revised to
       include a focus on energy consumption and will include reporting by
       individual commands on a quarterly basis.
     * Security and safety lighting shall be held to the lowest acceptable
       levels. Inside and outside decorative lighting shall be turned off.
     * All video monitors will be set for automatic power-down.
     * Blinds and window coverings will be used to maximize energy
       efficiency.

   The importance of individual employee efforts in conserving energy at
   home as well as at work will be communicated in the following manner
   from the Commissioner's office:
     * The Commissioner will distribute a letter to all departmental
       employees encouraging reduction in consumption of electrical energy
       both at work and at home.
     * Videotaped messages will be added to the "Commissioner's Comments"
       video schedule.
     * An article and/or advertisement on energy conservation will be
       developed and printed in departmental publications.
     * All members of departmental management will include energy
       conservation messages at local staff meetings/briefings.


                             Back to Top of Page
   © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor.   Conditions of Use |
                               Privacy Policy
