http://www.nist.gov/public_affairs/factsheet/homeland.htm

                            Fact Sheets from NIST

                 Technologies for Improved Homeland Security

     The Technology Administration's National Institute of Standards and
    Technology (NIST) has provided measurements, standards, and technical
    advice for many years to help federal, state, and local agencies and
     the private sector protect U.S. citizens from terrorist, military,
                natural disaster, and other types of threats.

        In the 1930s, NIST forensic experts used their two decades of
      experience solving crimes to help establish the FBI's laboratory.
       During World War II, the Institute provided technical advice on
        everything from the atom bomb to the paper used in war maps.

   In the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks, NIST is playing a key role in
     enhancing the nation's ability to prevent and respond to terrorism.
   Through more than 75 ongoing and newly initiated research and standards
    development projects, NIST is helping the millions of individuals in
     law enforcement, military, science, emergency services, information
   technology, airport and building security, and other areas protect the
                   American public from terrorist threats.

      Below are examples of NIST projects related to improving Homeland
                                  Security.
     * Safer Structures and Secure Information Systems
     * Enhanced Threat Detection and Protection
     * Tools for Law Enforcement
     * Emergency Response

               Safer Structures and Secure Information Systems

   An essential tool in the fight against terrorism is a solidly built and
   protected infrastructure. NIST is contributing to this goal on a number
                                 of fronts:

             Strengthening Structural and Fire Safety Standards

           Investigation of World Trade Center Buildings' Collapse

     A NIST structural engineering expert is serving on a small panel of
    experts who are collecting on-site, baseline data on the World Trade
   Center buildings and their failure. The FEMA-funded panel was organized
        by the American Society of Civil Engineers and also includes
   representatives from the American Institute of Steel Construction, the
   American Concrete Institute, Society of Fire Protection Engineers, the
        National Fire Protection Association, and the Council on Tall
                                 Buildings.

    Previous major investigations by NIST building experts have included
      the damage to buildings and other structures from the Northridge
      earthquake in 1994, the fatal fire that occurred at the Happyland
    Social Club in the Bronx in 1990, the DuPont Plaza Hotel fire in San
     Juan in 1986, and the collapse of a suspended walkway at the Hyatt
                       Regency in Kansas City in 1981.

            On-site Survey of Pentagon Structural and Fire Damage

        In October 2001, a NIST expert in building and fire research
    participated in an on-site survey of the Pentagon structural and fire
     damage as part of a team organized by the American Society of Civil
    Engineers and led by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. The Army Corps
    of Engineers subsequently funded a team of NIST experts to review and
     evaluate the performance of the Pentagon's structural system under
     fire, the ability of its heating and ventilating system to control
   smoke movement, and the response of its fire protection systems to the
                        attack and subsequent fires.

        World Trade Center Reconstruction and National Building Codes

    Any new structures built to replace the World Trade Center buildings
   and others that were damaged or destroyed in New York on Sept. 11 must
   meet current building codes. Before federal public assistance funds can
      be disbursed for reconstruction, FEMA is required to identify the
     strictest building codes among relevant local, state, and national
     codes and to require these codes in the design and construction of
     replacement buildings. FEMA is funding NIST to compare the New York
   City and New York State building codes with national building codes in
    three areas: earthquakes, wind, and fire. Four NIST experts who work
       closely on the relevant national codes produced by the National
   Earthquake and Hazard Reduction Program, the American Society of Civil
        Engineers, the National Fire Protection Association, and the
            International Code Council are conducting the study.

                        Fire, Smoke, and Simulations

    Scientists and engineers are adapting a NIST-developed computational
     model to re-create aspects of the fires that occurred following the
     terrorist attack on the World Trade Center. The model, Fire Dynamic
     Simulator, and a software package, called SmokeView, have been used
   previously to aid in the re-creation of building fires that resulted in
   firefighter fatalities. Preliminary calculations have demonstrated the
   model's ability to shed light on the impact of building geometry, fuel
    distribution, and wind conditions on the smoke and fire flows within
      and outside the trade towers. Such information may be helpful to
    firefighters in predicting the likely behavior of future large-scale
                        fires in high-rise buildings.

                 Hart Senate Office Building Air Flow Study

      Following the release of anthrax spores in the Hart Senate Office
   Building in October, the Architect of the Capitol and the Environmental
   Protection Agency Emergency Response Team asked NIST engineers for help
   in understanding how spores may have spread through the building. NIST
     experts in ventilation systems and air quality used a sophisticated
   NIST-developed computer model to understand different ways in which air
   flow may have transported spores. The results of the modeling were used
     in planning further sampling within the building and in developing
    decontamination strategies. NIST's expertise could be applied to the
     anthrax spore problem quickly because it has long worked to improve
   indoor air quality by developing computer modeling programs to show how
   pollutants, smoke, and contaminants are transported through indoor air.

                  Workshop on Structures and Extreme Fires

      A workshop is being organized by NIST scientists and engineers to
      define the research necessary to allow the behavior of structural
   systems in an extreme fire to be predicted from test data, fundamental
   physical principles, and advanced computational methods. The workshop,
    planned for February 2002, will bring together the world's experts on
    fire resistant materials, structural dynamics, and fire dynamics. The
      goal of the research will be to improve standard test methods for
     evaluating the fire resistance of beams, columns, connections, and
    assemblies used in building construction. It also includes developing
    procedures to establish the performance levels of structures that may
              go beyond the minimum building code requirements.

    Coordinated National Strategy for Protecting Critical Infrastructures

       The Sept. 11 terrorist attacks have illustrated the need for a
   coordinated, public-private sector approach to protecting the nation's
   critical physical infrastructure. This includes buildings of all types;
   transportation systems such as airports, seaports, roads, and bridges;
      utility networks, including power plants, dams, water and sewage
   plants, and waterways; health care facilities; telecommunications; and
       other facilities used in financial, manufacturing, defense, and
                     information technology operations.

    NIST is actively discussing the development of a coordinated national
   strategy in this area with the relevant agencies—FEMA, the Department
   of Defense, the Department of Transportation, and the General Services
      Administration; state and local building and emergency management
                    officials; and private organizations.

                      Improved Materials for Structures

     NIST is helping the engineering and construction industries improve
    building materials, enabling stronger, longer-lasting structures, be
       they bridges, buildings, or off-shore oil rigs. NIST materials
   scientists are collaborating with industry and academic researchers on
       test methods for high-performance concrete and advanced polymer
        composites that will enable development of superior products.
          Researchers are developing techniques to characterize the
   microstructural features of fiber-reinforced polymers and to correlate
    the performance of the materials with their microstructural features.

                  Cyber Security Standards and Technologies

     In December 2001, NIST and the Department of Commerce announced the
     newest and strongest-yet encryption standard for the protection of
    sensitive, non-classified electronic information. While developed for
   the government, the private sector also is expected to use the Advanced
    Encryption Standard, or AES, to safeguard financial transactions and
     ensure privacy of digital information—from medical records and tax
      information to PIN numbers—for millions of Americans. Individual
      consumers, financial brokers, and large corporations rely on NIST
      encryption standards for safe and secure electronic transactions,
       whether worth just a few cents or several billion dollars. AES
      encryption can help protect our nation against terrorists, spies,
                           criminals, and hackers.

     Because of its greater strength and efficiency, AES eventually will
     replace NIST's earlier Data Encryption Standard (DES), in use since
   1977, and Triple DES, approved in 1999. Assuming that one could build a
    machine that could recover a DES key in a second, then it would take
     that machine approximately 149 trillion (thousand-billion) years to
   crack a 128-bit AES key; this is longer than our universe has existed.
     In 1997, NIST invited the world's best cryptographers to submit and
       help evaluate algorithms for the new encryption standard. This
                  four-year effort resulted in the new AES.

       NIST is helping the private sector incorporate NIST encryption
     algorithms into commercial products by testing and validating their
                           correct implementation.

    Financial institutions and software engineers now are integrating the
      AES into their systems, but many Americans already have used its
     predecessors, DES and Triple DES, without realizing it. Practically
      every automatic teller machine uses NIST encryption standards to
   safeguard PIN numbers. Some Web browsers use NIST encryption standards
   to encrypt credit card numbers transmitted for Internet purchases. AES
   also will be used to protect the privacy of medical records as more and
    more health care providers are converting their records to electronic
     formats. The Drug Enforcement Administration recently asked NIST to
   review its plan to require electronic encryption standards to dispense
                 narcotic drugs at hospitals and pharmacies.

       A recent study of the economic impact of NIST's involvement in
     developing encryption standards estimates that NIST's efforts have
                saved private industry more than $1 billion.

     In addition to encryption standards, NIST has been developing other
         cryptographic standards for use in protecting our critical
   infrastructures. In the fall of 2001, NIST awarded $5 million for nine
    research grants that will enhance security for the nation's critical
      infrastructures, such as electrical grids and air traffic control
    systems. The awards will accelerate efforts to make the computer and
   telecommunications systems that support essential services more secure.
   Many critical infrastructures—the physical and cyber-based systems that
    are essential to the nation's economy—are increasingly automated and
                               interdependent.

     NIST also helps secure electronic information through programs that
   develop national and international standards for information technology
   security. The institute develops security guidance for federal agencies
     and conducts research into new security technologies. NIST and the
   National Security Agency have formed the National Information Assurance
     Partnership to promote technically sound security requirements for
                information technology products and systems.

        On Jan. 10, 2002, President Bush signed into law an Emergency
      Supplemental appropriation for the Department of Defense. The new
   legislation provides NIST with $5 million for new security systems for
    wireless networks and new intrusion-detection technologies as well as
     other advanced information technologies for protecting the nation's
                   infrastructure including the Internet.

                                 Back to top


                  Enhanced Threat Detection and Protection

                Ensuring Proper Doses for Irradiation of Mail

      NIST is a member of a White House task force led by the Office of
   Science and Technology Policy to ensure that mail intended for Congress
     and other federal government offices is properly irradiated to kill
   anthrax bacteria. Very shortly after the first discovery of anthrax in
       mail to Senator Tom Daschle, the U.S. Postal Service identified
    commercial facilities in Lima, Ohio, and Bridgeport, N.J., that could
   successfully irradiate mail to help ensure its safety. These facilities
    use high-energy electron sources to sterilize a wide range of items,
       more typically medical instruments and supplies. Such radiation
    destroys biological agents without affecting most other materials, so
   the mail is made safe without damage. NIST physicists certified for the
    task force that these facilities could sterilize mail against anthrax
                                effectively.

     NIST collaborated with the U.S. Postal Service and the Armed Forces
     Radiobiology Research Institute to determine what dose of radiation
    produced at the two facilities would be adequate to kill anthrax and
   yet not damage most mail items. NIST has a long history of involvement
   in providing calibrations, standards, and measurement methods to ensure
          accurate radiation doses for X-ray machines, mammography,
                  radiopharmaceuticals, and other products.

    To help determine the correct radiation dose, NIST researchers made a
    computerized axial tomography (CAT) scan of a box of sample mail like
   those to be used at the irradiation facilities. This three-dimensional
    representation was used to help plot the radiation doses. Pellets of
     alanine, an amino acid, were attached to sample letters and placed
   throughout the box. Radiation causes chemical changes in alanine. These
    changes can be detected with a technique called electron paramagnetic
    resonance. The alanine pellets serve as mini dosimeters that allowed
   NIST researchers to carefully map the radiation dosage supplied by the
     Lima and Bridgeport facilities throughout a box of mail. The doses
     measured in the alanine were then compared with the less expensive
   color-changing sensors routinely used at the irradiation facilities to
          ensure that their quality control systems were adequate.

    NIST also is advising federal officials on possible construction of a
      dedicated radiation source near Washington, D.C., for future mail
                               sterilization.

                 Weapon Detection Technologies and Standards

     Metal detectors used in airports, courthouses, and other buildings
    produce magnetic fields that interact with metallic weapons or other
     hidden metallic contraband items, a quality that can be measured or
    used to generate an alarm. These devices must be able to detect such
   metal objects repeatedly and often in rapid succession. They also have
      to generate fields strong enough to do the job without disturbing
    medical electronic devices such as implanted cardiac defibrillators.

       With funding from the National Institute of Justice (NIJ), NIST
      researchers have completed work on new performance standards and
     operational requirements for both walk-through and hand-held metal
    detectors. Several additional federal agencies—including the Federal
    Aviation Administration (FAA) and the Federal Bureau of Prisons—and
     dozens of state and local law enforcement and corrections agencies
                      contributed ideas to the project.

    The researchers created a sophisticated measurement system that uses
   specialized computer software to evaluate detector effectiveness. Test
   objects also were developed to duplicate the response of various threat
          items, such as razor blades, handguns, and handcuff keys.

    Another NIST research group has received funding from the NIJ and the
     FAA to investigate a new technology for weapons detection based on
     low-energy, millimeter-size electromagnetic waves. The technology,
    which currently is under development, involves a radar-like apparatus
     that could illuminate a group of people or individuals. Clothing is
    transparent to the waves, but objects concealed beneath the clothing
    are not. Waves striking guns, knives, and plastic explosives would be
    reflected back and directed through a set of optics, which focus the
    radiation onto an array of tiny antennas mounted on a silicon wafer.
     The antennas are so small that 120 can fit onto a single wafer. An
     electronics package would convert the concentrated electromagnetic
      radiation into images, and these would be projected onto a laptop
                              computer screen.

     Millimeter-size waves are expected to consistently locate concealed
    weapons, without simultaneously creating detailed images of the body.
       NIST is working to fully understand performance issues for such
     detectors so that it will be able to assist the FAA and the NIJ in
       judging the sensitivity and reliability of commercial products.

     Detection of Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Other Threats

       As the primary reference laboratory for the United States, NIST
     develops standards, protocols, and new test methods to ensure that
     chemical and biological compounds can be measured accurately. This
     includes extensive, ongoing programs for the detection of chemical,
          biological, radiological, nuclear, and explosive threats.

      NIST researchers work to continually improve methods and data for
     ultra-sensitive detection of chemicals, including chemical warfare
     agents. This research involves both widely used techniques, such as
     mass spectrometry and chromatography, as well as smaller, portable
   devices designed to detect more specific biological or chemical agents.

        For example, a NIST database developed with the Environmental
     Protection Agency and the National Institutes of Health is included
    with most mass spectrometers sold by major manufacturers today. This
     database provides the mass spectral information—a kind of chemical
   fingerprint—needed to definitively identify more than 100,000 different
   compounds. This database is essential for rapidly identifying specific
       chemical threats in real-time, for example, at airport security
                                checkpoints.

   With funding from the U.S. Army, NIST is verifying the accuracy of test
      equipment used to determine if a soldier's gas mask is protecting
   properly. A gas mask that does not fit well may leak around the edges,
         there may be small holes in the mask, or the filter may be
    malfunctioning. To test for such problems, the Army uses a commercial
    system that compares the concentration of airborne particulate matter
      inside the soldier's mask while it is being worn with the ambient
       concentration of particulates outside the mask. Ordinary small
   particulates in the air serve as a stand-in for chemical or biological
    agents like mustard gas or anthrax since their flow behavior is very
   similar. To help ensure that the commercial system is well calibrated,
     NIST is developing a uniform particulate source and two independent
      methods to verify the accuracy of the test equipment used to test
                             military gas masks.

     Other NIST projects are aimed at creating new, portable measurement
    devices that can detect agents such as sulfur-mustard gas compounds,
    sarin and other nerve agents, and explosive compounds. In particular,
       NIST is working with the Defense Threat Reduction Agency on the
      creation of micro-sensor arrays that use selective thin films and
      mini-heaters embedded in integrated circuits to identify chemical
   agents at the part-per-million level. A NIST collaboration with the FAA
    is aimed at checking the performance of systems that sense whether an
       airline passenger is carrying explosives by identifying minute
   quantities of particles and vapors as the person walks through a portal
      device. NIST is using its expertise in a specialized form of mass
   spectrometry to identify, count, and size explosive particles collected
                         by such detection systems.

           Additional NIST projects involve improving methods to:
     * use laser-based techniques to enhance detection of chemical agents,
     * use proteins to detect low levels of specific biological pathogens,
     * rapidly sequence DNA for quick identification and for tracing the
       sources of pathogens, and
     * monitor medical markers in routine urine tests as an early warning
       system that a population has been exposed to biological pathogens.

                                 Back to top


                          Tools for Law Enforcement

     For most of its 100-year history, NIST has worked closely with law
   enforcement, corrections, and criminal justice agencies to help improve
     the technologies available for solving and detecting crimes and for
   protecting law enforcement officers. Starting in 1913, a NIST scientist
     named Wilmer Souder pioneered the use of scientific techniques for
   forensic investigations and helped the Federal Bureau of Investigation
    (FBI) establish its crime laboratory in 1932. Since the early 1970s,
    NIST has issued more than a dozen law enforcement standards that help
    law enforcement agencies ensure that the equipment they purchase and
       the technologies they use are safe, dependable, and effective.

                          Standards for Biometrics

        In light of the Sept. 11 attacks, NIST efforts to improve the
    technologies and standards available for definitive identification of
    individuals—techniques such as fingerprinting, face recognition, and
                 DNA analysis—have taken on added urgency.

    For more than 30 years, NIST computer scientists have helped the FBI
   improve the automation process for matching "rolled" fingerprints taken
    by law enforcement agencies or "latent" prints found at crime scenes
   against the FBI's master file of fingerprints. NIST test data have been
   used to develop automated systems that can correctly match fingerprints
   by the minutiae, or tiny details, that investigators previously had to
      read by hand. In cooperation with the American National Standards
    Institute (ANSI), NIST also developed a uniform way for fingerprint,
    facial, scar, mark, and tattoo data to be exchanged between different
       jurisdictions and between dissimilar systems made by different
                               manufacturers.

     In conjunction with the FBI, NIST has developed several databases,
   including one consisting of 258 latent fingerprints and their matching
      "rolled" file prints. The database can be used by researchers and
   commercial developers to create and test new fingerprint identification
    algorithms, test commercial and research systems that conform to the
        NIST/ANSI standard, and assist in training latent fingerprint
       examiners. The increasing use of specialized "live" fingerprint
      scanners will help ensure that a high-quality fingerprint can be
     captured quickly and added to the FBI's current files. Use of these
   scanners also should speed up the matching of fingerprints against the
                FBI database of more than 40 million prints.

   NIST has produced a similar database to help the emerging field of face
      recognition. The data can be used by vendors of face recognition
    products to test the reliability of their products against a standard
                                   format.

   The Biometric Consortium serves as the federal government's focal point
       for research, development, test, evaluation, and application of
    biometric-based personal identification and verification technology.
    The consortium now has more than 800 members, including 60 government
        agencies. NIST and the National Security Agency co-chair the
    consortium. NIST has collaborated with the consortium, the biometric
       industry, and other biometric organizations to create a common
        biometric exchange file format. The format already is part of
    government requirements for data interchange and is being adopted by
   the biometric industry. The specification is a candidate for fast track
      approval as an ANSI standard and as an international standard for
      exchange of many types of biometric data files, including data on
   fingerprints, faces, palm prints, retinas, and iris and voice patterns.

   In October 2001, Congress passed Public Law 107-56 (commonly called the
     Patriot Act), which calls on the Attorney General and Secretary of
     State to work with NIST in consultation with the Department of the
    Treasury and other U.S. law enforcement and intelligence agencies to
     develop a biometric standard for confirming the identity of people
       seeking U.S. visas or using a visa to enter the United States.

                      Standards for Forensic DNA Typing

     Since the development of DNA typing methods more than 10 years ago,
   NIST has developed a series of Standard Reference Materials (SRMs) that
      can be used by forensic and commercial laboratories to check the
   accuracy of their analyses. The NIST SRMs include samples of human DNA
   that have been carefully analyzed according to a standard FBI matching
   method. By extracting the DNA provided in the NIST SRM and analyzing it
     with their own laboratory equipment and test methods, forensic and
     commercial laboratories can verify that their methods are accurate.

   NIST experts in DNA analysis met with scientists from the Armed Forces
    Institute of Pathology (AFIP) in October 2001 to discuss details of a
      specialized DNA analysis technique that AFIP is using to identify
    remains of victims at the Pentagon and Pennsylvania crash sites. NIJ
      officials also contacted NIST scientists for consultation on DNA
   analysis of human remains from the World Trade Center. The large number
     of victims and degraded condition of tissue samples from the World
    Trade Center attack pose particular problems for forensic DNA typing,
   which is typically a slow, manual process. NIST is developing automated
   methods for extracting DNA from tissue or bone samples to help speed up
    DNA analyses. In addition, NIST is testing a new technique for using
   smaller portions of DNA at specific chromosome sites. The technique may
   allow many more tissue samples to be matched successfully against those
   of suspected victims than is currently possible. More than half of the
   World Trade Center samples available cannot be adequately analyzed due
     to severe degradation by fire, crushing, or other harsh conditions.

                        Enhanced Surveillance Cameras

   The proper rendering of shadow and dark detail by cameras is important
     in many security applications, such as surveillance within airplane
    cabins or terminals. Cameras, however, do not work nearly as well as
        the human eye, which is much better at distinguishing subtle
        differences between varying shadows and dark details. This is
    particularly true when bright areas dominate the scene under view. In
   this situation, conventional cameras suffer from substantial amounts of
      glare that make it difficult to see details in shadowed areas. By
     mimicking the eye and surrounding the camera with liquid instead of
        air, NIST researchers (with NIJ funding) hope to improve the
    performance of surveillance cameras substantially. This, in turn, may
   improve the reliability of other technologies, such as face recognition
                              within airports.

                        Protective Vests and Helmets

    Law enforcement agencies also rely on NIST/NIJ standards for testing
   the performance of bullet- and knife-resistant vests, helmets, and face
   shields as well as car windows and body armor. These standards protect
   police officers by ensuring that manufacturers use reliable methods to
     test the quality of their products. At its ballistic research test
    facility, NIST develops the test methods and conducts the evaluations
   needed to continually improve these standards and keep up with changing
                         materials and technologies.

                      Standards for Bullets and Casings

     Every firearm has unique characteristics that leave an identifiable
   signature on the bullets and casings that it fires. By analyzing these
    ballistics signatures, examiners can connect a firearm to bullets or
       casings used during criminal or terrorist acts. Law enforcement
   agencies use a standard method for quickly determining if a particular
   bullet or casing was shot from a specific firearm. However, to improve
   confidence in the method's reliability, NIST—with funding from NIJ—is
    developing reference material bullets and casings. Forensic labs will
   be able to use these specially machined bullets and casings with their
   own instruments and determine whether their analyses produce ballistic
                signatures that match those supplied by NIST.

     Forensic Tools for Investigating Computer or Magnetic Data Evidence

      Criminals, including terrorists, who use computers in their work
     frequently manipulate files in an attempt to hide or obscure their
   activity. For example, someone with blueprints for a targeted building
    might attempt to hide the true nature of the document by renaming the
       file to make it look like an ordinary word processing document.

     While computer forensics experts know these tricks, they frequently
     face the daunting task of searching up to 100,000 files on a single
   desktop computer for evidence. NIST computer scientists are helping to
      speed up this process dramatically with a new tool, the National
     Software Reference Library. Working with software manufacturers and
        others who provided copies of their programs, NIST collected
   "signature" formats for more than 1 million different types of computer
    files. These "signatures" are checked against the actual contents of
   the file rather than other identifiers such as the file name or header.
     The library allows law enforcement agencies to eliminate between 25
    percent to 95 percent of the total files in a computer, concentrating
      only on those that really might contain evidence. Several federal
    agencies support the effort, including NIJ, the FBI, the U.S. Customs
           Service, and the Defense Computer Forensics Laboratory.

     In another project, NIST researchers collaborated with the National
    Telecommunications and Information Administration on a new technique
   for retrieving data from damaged or altered magnetic tapes and computer
       disks. The method uses high-resolution magnetic sensors to map
      microscopic magnetic fields on a sample. The map then is used to
   rebuild the original magnetic signal. The researchers demonstrated the
   technique by recovering audio data from a tape fragment provided by the
   National Transportation Safety Board that was too damaged to be played
    in a conventional tape deck. For the FBI, they used the technique to
   reveal magnetic marks produced by the erase and record heads during the
   recording process. Such evidence could be critical for proving that an
                   original tape or disk had been altered.

                  Crimes Involving Explosives or Gunpowder

       NIST chemists, in conjunction with the NIJ, have come up with a
    reliable way to match samples of unfired gunpowder or ammunition with
   handgun or pipe bomb residues. The NIST researchers collected residues
    from handguns fired at a test firing range and analyzed nitroglycerin
          and stabilizer additives. They also developed a numerical
      identification ratio for linking residues to unfired powders. In
   another project, NIST asked 13 forensic labs to analyze test samples of
    two commercial gunpowders. This voluntary interlaboratory comparison
    demonstrated the labs' proficiency in gunpowder measurements, thereby
       making forensic gunpowder analysis more defensible in criminal
     prosecutions. As a follow-up to this work, NIST now is preparing a
   smokeless powder reference material that forsensic laboratories will be
      able to use in checking the accuracy of their bomb and gunpowder
                              residue analyses.

                                 Back to top


                             Emergency Response

                         Protecting First Responders

    Since the tragedies of Sept. 11, firefighters, police, and emergency
    medical responders are perhaps more appreciated and more depended on
   than ever. Existing standards for emergency responders' protective gear
   were drafted with accidents—not terrorism—in mind. Even standards for
       military personnel protective gear cannot be applied easily to
        emergency first responders' gear since battlefield and urban
     environments are very different. Jurisdictions all over the United
     States would like to purchase respirators and protective suits for
   first responders, but they need standards against which they can gauge
       how well the equipment protects against biological and chemical
                                  weapons.

    With funding from the NIJ, NIST is facilitating the development of a
       suite of national chemical and biological protective equipment
        standards. NIST is working with all the appropriate standards
   organizations to make these standards available as soon as possible. A
       standard for a self-contained breathing apparatus to withstand
   biological and chemical assault was deemed the highest priority and has
   been developed. Standards for other types of breathing apparatus are in
   the pipeline, as are standards for personal protective suits. Standards
      for chemical and biological detectors also have been given a high
        priority. As manufacturers prepare to mass-produce protective
    equipment, additional testing laboratories will be needed to confirm
         compliance with the standards. NIST then will assist in the
    identification of testing laboratories that are capable of performing
                                 this work.

           Standardization of Communications for First Responders

     Another concern for emergency responders is communication. Federal,
   state, and local police, fire, and rescue personnel are assigned to use
    widely separated radio frequencies. They also use different types of
     computer hardware and software systems with access to different law
     enforcement databases. At a large disaster site, such as the World
   Trade Center, responders from different agencies may not be able to use
    their radios to talk to each other. Other times, a police officer may
   let a traffic offender go with a ticket, unaware that the offender was
             wanted on serious charges in another jurisdiction.

      NIST, again with funding from the NIJ, is working with the public
           safety community to standardize techniques for wireless
    telecommunications and information technology applications. NIST also
      is working with standards development organizations to have first
     responder requirements included within the scope of standardization
   efforts. For example, NIST is coordinating first responders' standards
      needs with the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
     committee that is developing standard message sets for transferring
   information among public safety, transportation, and hazardous material
      incident command centers. In addition to standardization, NIST is
      helping other agencies select promising interim solutions and is
    analyzing long-term solutions, such as a software-defined radio, for
                    research and development investment.
                      Evacuation of Building Occupants

     Sept. 11 produced thousands of unforgettable stories of tragedy and
      survival. NIST building and fire engineers hope to lessen future
   tragedies by studying how building evacuation plans contributed to both
      the number of dead and the number of survivors at the World Trade
   Center. Analysis of World Trade Center occupant behavior will increase
    safety in high-rise buildings, as it is expected to lead to improved
     building codes and standards, improved ability to predict occupant
          behavior, and improved education for building occupants.

   NIST, through grants and partnerships with other organizations such as
       FEMA, the New York Fire Department, and the World Trade Center
      businesses, is attempting to understand how the occupants behaved
   following the crash of the airplanes into the twin towers and how that
    behavior may have differed from previous incidents. Which aspects of
   the building design worked well and which did not during the evacuation
      process? Through examination of video tapes and photographs, 911
    transcripts, fire and police records, and interviews with survivors,
    NIST hopes to answer these questions. During this three-year effort,
   NIST researchers will advise the appropriate codes and standards bodies
     on recommended changes. With the data they collect, the researchers
           also plan to update and improve building-egress models.

   Another NIST effort could help speed evacuation of high-rise buildings.
   NIST, in a previous study with the National Research Council of Canada,
       has studied the use of elevators as a secondary way to evacuate
    occupants and help fire and rescue workers gain access in high rises.
   Such a system theoretically could reduce egress time by 50 percent, but
   it has not been tested fully. A demonstration project would help build
     confidence in a combined stair and elevator evacuation system. NIST
      researchers will work with industry and fire services to improve
            evacuation plans and set up a demonstration project.

                          Search and Rescue Robots

     A NIST project aimed initially at protecting emergency personnel by
           minimizing the amount of time rescuers spend searching
    earthquake-damaged buildings has helped provide a new tool for rescue
    workers at the World Trade Center. Search-and-rescue robots had never
    before been used at a disaster site, and they demonstrated promise in
   being able to penetrate areas too small and too hazardous for humans to
      access. Teams of robots—led by the independent Center for Robot
   Assisted Search and Rescue—were able to locate full and partial remains
   of several victims at the World Trade Center site. Just a month before,
    several of the robots had run through a NIST-designed test course at
       the International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence.

    To provide an objective evaluation of the performance of autonomous,
      intelligent, mobile robots for search-and-rescue operations, NIST
   engineers designed and built a standard test arena for robots, complete
       with overturned furniture, collapsed floors, broken pipes, and
    mannequin "victims." The arena has different levels of difficulty to
     help assess different types of robotic ability. Because the robots,
   built by universities and industry, compete quite literally on the same
   playing field, their performance can be measured objectively. Since one
     of NIST's goals is to foster cooperation among robotics researchers
    around the world, NIST supplies its test arenas to two international
      robotics conferences, which include competitions to see how well
     search-and-rescue robots perform on the NIST arena. Winners of the
      annual RoboCupRescue and the American Association for Artificial
    Intelligence Rescue Robot competitions share their techniques so all
                    participants can build better robots.


                                 Back to top


     Created:1-16-02
     Last updated: 1-17-02
     Contact: inquiries@nist.gov
