http://www.ows.doleta.gov/foreign/d-1.asp

   Link to DOL Home Page
   Foreign Labor Certification
   Photos representing the workforce - Digital Imagery© copyright 2001
   PhotoDisc, Inc.

   U.S. Department of Labor Seal
   www.ows.doleta.gov
   [Skip to Content]  Frequently Asked Questions  |  Site map



       OWS > FLC > D-1 Crewmembers Certification


   D-1 Crewmembers Certification

                                              On This Page



                                                * Qualifying Criteria
                                                * Process for Filing
                                                Program Regulations & FAQs

   Qualifying Criteria
   Performance of longshore work at U.S. ports by D-1 crewmembers on
   foreign vessels is generally prohibited with few exemptions.  The
   Department of Labor is responsible for administering two of those
   exemptions. Employers in these ports are required to file an
   attestation with the Department of Labor, to:
   Chief, Division of Foreign Labor Certifications
   Employment Training Administration
   U.S. Department of Labor, Room C-4318
   200 Constitution Avenue, NW
   Washington, DC 20210.
   The attestation should state that the use of alien crewmembers to
   perform longshore work is the prevailing practice for the activity at
   that port, there is no strike or lockout at the place of employment,
   and that notice has been given to U.S. workers or their
   representatives. Another exception requires that, before using alien
   crewmen to perform longshore activities in the State of Alaska, the
   employer will make a bona fide request for and employ U.S. longshore
   workers who are qualified and available in sufficient numbers from
   contract stevedoring companies, labor organizations recognized as
   exclusive bargaining representatives of U.S. longshore workers, and
   private dock operators.
   Violations may produce penalties to the employer of up to $5,000 for
   each crewmember wrongfully performing longshore work, and could bar
   vessels owned or chartered by the employer from entering all U.S. ports
   for up to one year. There has been no activity under the prevailing
   practice exception since the enactment of legislation creating a
   separate exception for the performance of longshore work at locations
   in the State of Alaska.
   Title 20 CFR Part 655, Subparts F and G, govern the filing and
   enforcement of attestation by employers seeking to use foreign
   crewmembers to perform longshore activities at U.S. ports and at
   locations in the State of Alaska. The DOL reviews the completed Form
   ETA 9033 (prevailing practice exception), or the completed Form ETA
   9033-A (Alaska exception), and all supporting documentation, and may
   accept the attestation for filing. A copy of the attestation and
   attachments are available for public inspection at the DOL national
   office.
   The employer may use foreign crewmembers for longshore work at the port
   or location(s) in the State of Alaska for which the attestation has
   been accepted in accordance with INS regulations unless the DOL
   subsequently acts to suspend or invalidate the attestation. The
   attestations are valid for one year.
   Process for Filing
    1. The employer must properly complete and submit to the DOL Form ETA
       9033, Attestation by Employers Using Alien Crewmembers for
       Longshore Activities in U.S. Ports, or Form ETA 9033-A, Attestation
       by Employers Using Alien Crewmembers for Longshore Activities at
       Locations in the State of Alaska, respectively, and the supporting
       documentation described below. Form ETA 9033 must be filed with the
       DOL regional office at least 14 days prior to the date of need,
       unless the employer claims and can document an unanticipated
       emergency. Form ETA 9033-A must be filed with the DOL regional
       office at least 30 days prior to the date of need, unless the
       employer could not have reasonably anticipated the need to file an
       attestation for the particular location at that time.
    2. Under the prevailing practice exception, the employer attests that
       during the 12-month period preceding the filing of the attestation
       it has been the prevailing practice for a particular activity of
       longshore work to be performed by alien crewmembers. An employer is
       required to establish that over fifty percent of the vessels
       docking at the port used alien crewmembers to perform the activity,
       or that alien crewmembers made up over fifty percent of the workers
       in the port who engaged in the activity. Under the Alaska
       exception, the employer attests that before using alien crewmembers
       to perform the activity specified in the attestation, the employer
       will make a bona fide request for, and employ U.S. longshore
       workers who are qualified and available in sufficient numbers from
       contract stevedoring companies, labor organizations recognized as
       exclusive bargaining representatives of U.S. longshore workers, and
       private dock operators.
    3. Under the prevailing practice exception, the employer attests that
       there is not a strike or lockout in the course of a labor dispute,
       that it will not use alien crewmembers to perform any longshore
       activity during the attestation's validity, and that the employment
       of alien crewmembers is not intended or designed to influence an
       election for a bargaining representative for longshore workers at
       the port. Under the Alaska exception, the employer merely attests
       that the use of alien crewmembers is not intended or designed to
       influence an election for a bargaining representative for longshore
       workers at the port.
    4. Lastly, the employer attests that notice of filing has been
       provided to the appropriate parties. Under the prevailing practice
       exception, notice is to be provided to the bargaining
       representative of the longshore workers in the local port or; if
       there is no such bargaining representative, notice has been
       provided to the port authority and to longshore workers employed at
       the port by posting it in conspicuous locations. Under the Alaska
       exception, notice is to be provided to labor organizations
       recognized as exclusive bargaining representatives of U.S.
       longshore workers, contract stevedoring companies which employ U.S.
       longshore workers at the particular location(s), and to operators
       of private docks at which longshore activity will occur.
    5. DOL reviews the completed Form ETA 9033, or Form ETA 9033-A, as
       appropriate, and the required supporting documentation, to assure
       that it is signed, completed, contains no obvious inaccuracies, and
       is consistent with the documentation submitted in support of the
       attestation.
    6. If the attestation is properly filled out, includes the required
       supporting documentation, submitted in a timely fashion, and does
       not fall within one of the exception categories set forth in the
       regulations, DOL accepts the attestation for filing, notifies the
       INS in writing of the filing, and returns a certified copy of the
       attestation. The employer may then utilize alien crewmembers for
       the longshore work at the location(s) cited in the attestation in
       accordance with the CFR, Subpart F of Part 655 and with INS
       regulations.
    7. If the attestation is not properly filled out, does not include the
       required supporting documentation, and/or does fall within one of
       the categories set forth in the regulations, such as where the
       Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division of the Employment
       Standards Administration (ESA) has determined that the employer
       misrepresented or failed to comply with the terms of a previously
       filed attestation, DOL returns the attestation to the employer with
       a written notification informing the employer of the reasons the
       attestation was not accepted for filing. If an attestation was not
       accepted, the employer may correct the deficiencies contained in
       the attestation and resubmit it to the appropriate DOL regional
       office. If an attestation was not accepted because of a finding of
       misrepresentation, failure to comply with any penalty, sanction, or
       other remedy determined through an investigation by the
       Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division of the ESA , or some
       other adverse enforcement determination by that agency, the lack of
       acceptance is the final decision of the Secretary of Labor and
       cannot be appealed.

   Program Regulations & FAQs
   20 CFR 655.500 - .699
   FAQs


     LCA Online
     Application
     About FLC
                    Mission
                    Organization
                    How do I...
                    Policy/Regs

     Hiring Foreign
     Workers
                     Permanent
                    H-1B
                    H-1C
                    H-2A
                    H-2B
                    D-1

     Forms and
     Instructions
                    ETA 9035
                    ETA 750
                    All Forms

     Prevailing Wage
     Information
                    Online Wage
                    Library
                    Adverse Wage
                    Effect
                    OES

     Processing Times
      LCA Numbers   LCA Numbers

     Related Links

     Contacts

   Back to Top Back to Top
                                                         www.doleta.gov
     ___________________________________________________________________

          Contact Us | Privacy and Security Statement | Disclaimers
