http://exportit.ita.doc.gov/ocbe/ocbehome.nsf/e7445254234489d885256547004dddd5/f8db7f2f2dd0c344852568db0070155e/$FILE/ExportITAsiaPrelim.PDF

   INTERNET, E-COMMERCE, AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS MARKET OPPORTUNITIES FOR
   U.S. SMALL- AND MEDIUM- SIZED BUSINESSES EXPORTIT ASIA: PRELIMINARY
   REPORT U.S. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE International Trade Administration
   Trade Development Information Technology Industries Office of
   Information Technologies / Office of Telecommunications Technologies
   December 2000 This report was prepared by Tu-Trang Phan, International
   Trade Specialist, Office of Information Technologies, and John Henry,
   Wireline Division Director, Office of Telecommunications Technologies;
   Information Technology Industries, Trade Development, International
   Trade Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, Washington, D.C.
   Information on the Office of Information Technologies can be found at
   http://exportIT.ita.doc.gov. Information on the Office of
   Telecommunications Technologies can be found at
   http://telecom.ita.doc.gov. Office of Information Technologies/ Office
   of Telecommunications Technologies, USDOC, December 2000 TABLE OF
   CONTENTS Foreword 1 Executive Summary 2 Chapter 1: Overview of the
   Asian IT and Telecommunications 5 Markets Chapter 2: Selected Asian
   Market Snapshots 12 Chapter 3: Hong Kong 28 Chapter 4: The Role of the
   U.S. Department of Commerce 56 Office of Information Technologies/
   Office of Telecommunications Technologies, USDOC, December 2000
   FOREWORD This report describes and analyzes the trends, key issues and
   events in information technology (IT), telecommunications, Internet and
   e-commerce adoption in Asia, highlighting Hong Kong, Taiwan and South
   Korea, in order to create a framework from which U.S. small- and
   medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) can make educated business decisions
   about entering these markets. The report analyzes the status of
   telecommunications liberalization, competition in telecommunications
   services, and the deployment of new telecommunications technologies,
   and how these changes are affecting the adoption of the Internet and
   e-commerce. It also analyzes economic, cultural, historical, and
   political factors influencing the adoption of information technology,
   the Internet and e-commerce applications. The report highlights
   information and market opportunities relevant to U.S. SMEs in the
   information technology (IT) and telecommunications industries. The
   report suggests market entry strategies for smaller firms, and provides
   a listing of resources from the U.S. Department of Commerce and other
   resources to assist U.S. firms in their market entry. This report is
   based on market research and analysis by international trade
   specialists from the U.S. Department of Commerce's Office of
   Information Technologies and Office of Telecommunications Technologies
   within the International Trade Administration. The work was supported
   by the International Trade Administration's U.S. and Foreign Commercial
   Service (US&FCS) market specialists in Asia. Much of the information in
   the reports on Hong Kong, Taiwan, and South Korea was gathered during
   on-site interviews with IT company representatives, IT users, IT trade
   association representatives and government officials in those
   countries. Information gathered from on-site interviews is supplemented
   with data from market research firms and an extensive review of
   available literature, including press reports. Data provided in these
   reports were collected from a variety of sources, and are not
   necessarily consistent. This report endeavors to provide the most
   recent data available for each country, however, tables listing
   multiple countries often must rely on older data sets. Therefore, data
   provided in the Asia overview may be older than the data provided in
   any individual country overview. This effort was carried out as part of
   the U.S. Department of Commerce Market Development Cooperator Program
   (MDCP), under a grant awarded to the Software and Information Industry
   Association (SIIA). The MDCP is a competitive matching grants program
   that builds public/private partnerships by providing federal assistance
   to nonprofit export multipliers such as states, trade associations, and
   chambers of commerce that are particularly effective in reaching SMEs.
   1 Office of Information Technologies/ Office of Telecommunications
   Technologies, USDOC, December 2000 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Asia is
   potentially the most important regional information technology (IT) and
   telecommunications market in the world. It includes the two most
   populous countries, China and India, and the world's second largest
   economy, Japan. Japan is also the second largest IT market in the world
   after the United States. China, alone, is currently the fastest growing
   telecommunications market in the world and is projected to surpass the
   United States as the world's largest telecommunications market within a
   few years. Demand for IT and telecom equipment in Asia is estimated at
   over $100 billion in 2000, representing about 25 percent of the world
   total. The use of the Internet is also growing quickly in Asia. Active
   adult Internet users there will reach about 38 million by 2001, and the
   user base in this region should more than double to 96 million, or 26
   percent of the world total by 2003. Key factors driving Internet usage
   and electronic commerce (e-commerce) growth include telecommunications
   deregulation and the build-out of the telecommunications and Internet
   infrastructure which are resulting in lower user fees; declining prices
   in information technology and telecommunications equipment; a growing
   array of e-commerce software applications; and a recognition that
   e-commerce can lower costs and raise operational efficiencies. By 2004,
   the Asia-Pacific region is expected to represent 20 percent of
   worldwide online spending, with e- commerce revenues reaching $1.6
   trillion. There are numerous opportunities for U.S. suppliers, and U.S.
   IT companies have forged critical sourcing relationships with Asian
   companies in the areas of motherboards (Taiwan), disk storage
   (Singapore), and software programming (India). Asia markets are very
   diverse, in terms of size, population, levels of economic development
   and cultures. Potential exporters to Asia need to examine each country
   individually to determine its market potential. This report provides
   in-depth analyses of the IT markets Hong Kong, Taiwan and South Korea,
   as well as brief overviews of nine other countries. Hong Kong, Taiwan
   and South Korea present an interesting study in commonalities and
   contrast. While there are many similarities between the IT markets in
   each country, there are also important differences that may influence a
   potential exporter's decision as to where to focus attention. The
   governments of Hong Kong, Taiwan and Korea recognize the importance of
   information technology to overall economic development, and each has
   enacted a program to help bring their economies into the information
   age. But the government approach and degree of direct involvement is
   different in each market. Hong Kong takes the most laissez-faire
   approach to promoting IT development. Its "Digital 21 - Information
   Technology Strategy" sees the government's role as creating the proper
   2 Office of Information Technologies/ Office of Telecommunications
   Technologies, USDOC, December 2000 environment for IT to flourish. Key
   elements of this plan include a liberalized regulatory environment
   designed to promote the development of an advanced information
   infrastructure, educational incentives, and government leading the
   public by example in the adoption and application of IT solutions. Hong
   Kong provides relatively little in the way of direct government grants
   or explicit directions to its private sector. The government of South
   Korea takes a more hands-on approach to promoting IT development. Its
   "Cyber Korea 21" initiative is a government-directed five-year
   development plan that evolved from the Master Plan for Information
   Promotion (1996-2000). The Korean government invests directly in
   building nationwide high-speed fiber-optic networks, providing
   satellite communications links and personal computers to schools, and
   establishing online knowledge databases. The government also exerts a
   strong influence over the direction of academic research and the
   development and business activities of Korea's IT companies. Taiwan's
   approach to promoting IT development appears to fall somewhere in
   between the Hong Kong and the Korean approaches. Taiwan's "National
   Information Infrastructure (NII) Development Plan" is overseen by the
   NII Steering Committee under the Executive Yuan. The NII Steering
   Committee coordinates the activities of other government agencies that
   are given responsibility for implementing a wide range of NII projects.
   Projects range from infrastructure build-out to legal reform to
   promoting IT education. While Taiwan's government takes a direct and
   active role in promoting IT development in Taiwan, industry appears to
   be given broad discretion in determining the best strategies for
   achieving its objectives. The IT equipment markets in Hong Kong, Taiwan
   and South Korea also offer interesting contrasts. Hong Kong is
   primarily a service-based economy and does very little IT equipment
   manufacturing. The Hong Kong market is wide open to foreign equipment
   suppliers, and users make their equipment purchasing decisions on the
   basis of price and performance. Taiwan is a world-class manufacturing
   center for IT equipment, ranging from chips to components to complete
   products, such as personal computers. Many leading IT equipment
   manufacturers have set up manufacturing subsidiaries in Taiwan, or rely
   on independent Taiwanese factories to supply their original equipment
   manufacturing (OEM) needs. Taiwan is relatively open to foreign
   investment in the IT manufacturing sector, and joint venture
   manufacturing operations are fairly common. Many foreign firms are able
   to develop "win-win" partnerships with Taiwanese companies. Korea is
   also an important manufacturing center for IT equipment. However, the
   Korean industry developed in an environment characterized by government
   programs designed to restrict imports and discourage foreign investment
   while developing local IT manufacturing capabilities. As a result,
   potential foreign investors found it difficult to develop "win-win"
   deals in Korea. This situation has changed in recent years, partly as a
   result of reforms brought about in Korea by the Asian financial crisis.
   Korea's government planners have apparently also realized that the 3
   Office of Information Technologies/ Office of Telecommunications
   Technologies, USDOC, December 2000 transition to an information society
   can be made much more quickly by taking advantage of the best
   technologies that the world has to offer rather than trying to develop
   everything domestically. Hong Kong, Taiwan and South Korea are all
   intent on moving to the forefront of the Information Age. Each of them
   is actively promoting the development of an advanced information
   infrastructure. Wireless communications technologies are extremely
   advanced and widely deployed in all of these markets. The Internet is
   developing rapidly, and there is a strong demand for networking
   technologies and applications. Localized versions of specialized
   software applications are also in great demand. In short, these markets
   offer tremendous market opportunities for the world-class products and
   services from U.S. information technology firms. While they offer
   opportunities, these markets also pose challenges, especially for
   small-to medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). Understanding local customs
   and business practices may require partnerships with local firms, or
   relationships with larger multinational firms. In some cases, local
   agents or distributors may be sufficient. Interested companies should
   contact the U.S. Department of Commerce for information on local
   markets and suggestions on developing market entry strategies. 4 Office
   of Information Technologies/ Office of Telecommunications Technologies,
   USDOC, December 2000 CHAPTER 1: OVERVIEW OF THE ASIAN IT &
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS MARKETS Asian IT and Telecommunications Equipment
   Markets in 2000 (Millions of Current U.S. Dollars) Country IT Telecom
   Total Equipment Equipment Vietnam Japan $49,376 $16,498 $65,874
   Indonesia China $10,567 $3,148 $13,715 Philippines Singapore $8,316
   $606 $8,922 Taiwan South Korea $5893 $2,340 $8,233 Malaysia Hong Kong
   $2,698 $371 $3,069 India Thailand $1,738 $588 $2,326 Thailand India
   $1,425 $563 $1,988 Hong Kong Malaysia $1,271 $563 $1,834 S. Korea
   Taiwan $1,453 $327 $1,780 Singapore Philippines $758 $659 $1,417 China
   Indonesia $426 $676 $1,102 Japan 0 10000 20000 30000 40000 50000 60000
   70000 Vietnam $246 $116 $362 IT Equipment Telecom Equipment Total Asia
   $84,167 $26,455 $110,622 Source: Copyright 2000, Cahners Business
   Information, Electronics Industry Year Book 2000 Edition. Asia has
   become a significant information technology (IT) and telecommunications
   market as well as an important production base for IT products.
   Regional demand is expected to reach nearly $111 billion by the end of
   2000, with IT equipment representing 76 percent of this total. Japan is
   by far the largest country market, accounting for nearly 60 percent of
   the total Asia market, followed distantly by China, Singapore and South
   Korea. U.S. high tech exports, including semiconductors, consumer
   electronics, and other electronic components and equipment, to this
   area doubled from 1993 to $63.5 billion in 1999. Japan, South Korea,
   and Singapore continued to be the top three export markets for these
   products in 1999. 1 Despite the financial crisis that affected Asia in
   1997 and budget cutbacks in many sectors, all Asian governments have
   continued to invest in the development of a more sophisticated
   information technology infrastructure which will generate substantial
   business opportunities for IT suppliers. These governments consider the
   sector a significant driver to economic growth and crucial for the
   international competitiveness of their industries. This commitment is
   underscored 1Cybernation 2.0, American Electronics Association 5 Office
   of Information Technologies/ Office of Telecommunications Technologies,
   USDOC, December 2000 in their development of their national IT plans,
   such as Korea's Cyber21 and Malaysia's Vision 2020 strategies, and the
   continuation of initiatives such as SingaporeONE and the Multimedia
   Supercorridor project in Malaysia. In most of these economies,
   legislation has been either drafted or approved to create a legal
   environment conducive to conducting electronic commerce. Many Asian
   governments' active participation in multilateral fora such as the
   Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) indicate continued government
   prioritization in this sector. IT Spending by Country as a Proportion
   of Gross Domestic Product, 1998 Country GDP (millions of IT Spending
   (millions IT/GDP IT Spending per U.S. dollars) of U.S. dollars) (%)
   Capita (U.S. Dollars) Singapore 99,269 2,394.1 2.4 686 Japan
   5,278,738.6 85,871.2 1.7 681.9 Hong Kong 151,203.1 2,046.5 1.4 314.9
   Malaysia 96,422.7 1,230.6 1.3 58.8 China 917,993.6 9,011.6 1 7.4 South
   Korea 505,812 4,925.9 1 106.1 Taiwan 317,598.9 3046.7 1 139.1 Vietnam
   22,404.6 205.8 0.9 2.7 Philippines 88,457.5 515.9 0.6 6.6 India
   423.007.5 2,267.3 0.5 2.3 Thailand 173,263.1 746.2 0.4 12.4 Indonesia
   207,257.6 274.3 0.1 1.3 Source: IDC 6 Office of Information
   Technologies/ Office of Telecommunications Technologies, USDOC,
   December 2000 Lured by government investment incentives and the
   availability of skilled, low cost labor in these countries, many
   leading U.S. IT suppliers established assembly operations in the region
   from the 1980s onwards. As a result, cumulative U.S. technology
   manufacturing investment reached almost $24 billion in 1998, a 92
   percent increase from 1993. Most of this spending was in Singapore,
   Japan, and Malaysia. Government IT spending and U.S. direct investment
   in Asia continue to grow, but the business dynamics are changing to
   keep up with the pace of the Internet and electronic commerce.
   Cumulative U.S. Direct Tech Manufacturing Investment in Asia (Millions
   of Current U.S. Dollars) Country 1993 1998 Change (%) Singapore $3,922
   $7,510 91 Singapore Japan $5,106 $5,631 10 Japan Malaysia Malaysia*
   $1,090 $3,412 N/A China* $15 $1,935 N/A China Taiwan $882 $1,471 67
   Taiwan Hong Kong $740 $1,397 89 Hong Kong Thailand* $219 $891 N/A
   Thailand South Korea $263 $846 222 S. Korea Philippines $148 $499 237
   Philippines India $69 $305 342 India Indonesia (D) $18 N/A Indonesia
   Total U.S. $12,454 $23,915 92 0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 7000 8000
   Tech Mfg. Investment 1993 1998 in Asia (D) Suppressed to avoid
   disclosure of individual companies * Some data are not released. This
   typically under represents the true amount of U.S. direct investment
   abroad and makes yearly comparisons difficult. Source: U.S. Bureau of
   Economic Analysis 7 Office of Information Technologies/ Office of
   Telecommunications Technologies, USDOC, December 2000 The Internet and
   E-business Readiness A study measuring the relative preparedness for
   the Internet era of 60 nations around the world published in May 2000
   by the Economic Intelligence Unit's (E.I.U.) e-business forum showed
   that the e-business readiness ratings of Asian countries vary widely.
   Singapore and Hong Kong ranked in the top ten while many of the
   remaining Asian nations were situated in the middle of this list.
   India, China, and Vietnam were among the least prepared. The number of
   computers in use in this region has nearly quadrupled from 1993 to 2000
   and is projected to grow in excess of 120 percent through 2005 in
   several of these nations and as much as 291 percent in India and 228
   percent in China.1 Computer penetration in the region ranges from 44
   percent in Singapore down to around 1 percent in China and India.1
   Internet use is expanding rapidly as well. Based on a recent study by
   the Philips Group, the number of Internet users in Asia is expected to
   grow 422 percent over the next five years. Currently, the region has
   approximately 43.6 million Internet users. This number is expected to
   increase to 228 million in 2005 and 370 million in 2006. The Philips
   Group also predicts that Japan will continue to have the largest number
   of Internet users until 2004, but China will surpass Japan in 2005.
   E-Business Readiness Ratings of Major Asian Nations* Rank Country
   Business Environment Connectivity (2) E-business Readiness (3) (1) 8
   Singapore 8.55 8 8.3 9 Hong Kong 8.52 8 8.3 21 Japan 7.43 8 7.7 24
   South Korea 7.30 7 7.2 27 Taiwan 8.13 5 6.6 28 Thailand 7.27 5 6.1 32
   Malaysia 6.91 5 6.0 38 Indonesia 6.16 5 5.6 46 Philippines 6.72 3 4.9
   50 India 5.97 3 4.5 51 China 5.88 3 4.4 54 Vietnam 5.30 3 4.2 * Rank
   out of 60 nations Source: The E.I.U. ebusiness forum,
   http://www.ebusinessforum.com, May 4, 2000 (1) Measures the expected
   attractiveness of the general business environment over the next five
   years, taking into consideration 70 different indicators such as
   strength of the economy, outlook for political stability, the
   regulatory climate, taxation policies, and openness to trade and
   investment. (2) Takes into account the state of the existing telephone
   network and other factors that affect Internet access such as dial-up
   costs and literacy rates. (3) A proxy for judging a country's relative
   preparedness for the Internet era. It is the country's average score
   across the two previous measures. 8 Office of Information Technologies/
   Office of Telecommunications Technologies, USDOC, December 2000
   Electronic Commerce and the Business-to-Business Segment According to
   the market research firm, Gartner Group, the volume of Asian e-commerce
   transactions will reach $340 billion by 2003, with business-to-business
   (B2B) e-commerce transactions accounting for 80 percent ($272 billion)
   of this total value. Worldwide B2B e-commerce is predicted to reach
   $7.3 trillion by 2004. Nearly $1 trillion of this amount is expected to
   generate from the Asian region (excluding Japan). A key factor that
   will drive this explosive growth is improved, cheaper
   telecommunications services as more governments move to liberalize
   their telecommunications sector. Many industry analysts believe that
   Singapore's complete liberalization of its telecom sector ahead of
   schedule this April will influence other Asian governments to follow
   suit. As Internet access becomes more affordable, the consumer and
   business community's Internet usage and adoption of appropriate
   Internet technologies will become more widespread. The availability of
   low-cost personal computers (PCs) is also driving higher PC penetration
   rates throughout the region. Eight Asian telecommunications carriers in
   the Asia-Pacific region will create an Asian Internet network to
   provide more efficient (faster and more affordable) Internet traffic
   within the region that will eliminate the need to route intra-regional
   traffic through the United States. The eight companies include Japan's
   KDD, Korea Telecom, Singapore Telecom and the Philippine Long Distance
   Telephone Company (PLDT). According to PDLT, Internet traffic in the
   Asia/Pacific region is growing by an average of 50 percent a year. Over
   the next few years, Internet traffic is expected to overtake voice
   traffic within the region. Trends and the vertical markets engaged in
   B2B e-commerce Most of the major and successful players in the B2B
   marketplace already have a strong regional presence. The leaders
   include the information technology (IT) suppliers themselves, many of
   whom are original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). OEMs are requiring
   shorter delivery times from their suppliers and have been driving the
   adoption of e-commerce technologies along their supply chains to save
   time and costs. Since many OEMs source their components from Taiwan,
   China, Malaysia, and the Philippines, OEMs such as IBM, Compaq, and
   Acer have all required their suppliers to adopt supply chain management
   technologies. Some large IT component suppliers, such as Taiwan
   Semiconductor Manufacturing Company and United Microelectronics
   Corporation have multi-purpose portals in place to meet the demands of
   their customers. In the Enterprise Resource Planning software market,
   SAP and Oracle are the market leaders in the Asia/Pacific region. Other
   vertical industries that are active in the B2B marketplace include
   automotive, shipping, chemicals, steel/metals, and healthcare. More and
   more trading companies are forming online marketplaces to support
   traditional vertical industries such as manufacturing and shipping.
   Vertical portals or "vortals" are now popping up everywhere challenging
   the traditional horizontal business models. Vortals provide customers
   with complete services including procurement, 9 Office of Information
   Technologies/ Office of Telecommunications Technologies, USDOC,
   December 2000 insurance, logistics, shipping, and delivery. The
   emergence of vortals in the B2B marketplace has led to an increasing
   number of strategic alliances among infrastructure providers,
   suppliers, trading companies, content providers, and insurance
   carriers. The major players involved in propelling B2B transactions in
   the region and the portals that have emerged reflect industries that
   are economically significant to either individual economies or to the
   Asia as a whole. For example, Asia's steel industry accounts for 45
   percent of overall world consumption. The four biggest consumers,
   China, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan, account for about 250 million
   metric tons a year worth $100 billion. South Korea is the third-largest
   steel producer in Asia, following China and Japan, and accounts for
   seven percent of world production. As a result, both Hyundai
   (SteelnMetal.com) and Samsung (tradesteel.com) have created portals for
   the steel and metals industry. Similar trends are taking place in the
   healthcare industry as well, where Forrester Research expects the sale
   of medical supplies and pharmaceutical drugs to be the fastest-growing
   segment of B2B e-commerce over the next few years, rising to $44
   billion in 2003 from $1 billion in 1999. Market Opening Trade
   Agreements The Information Technology Agreement The Information
   Technology Agreement (ITA) is a World Trade Organization (WTO) trade
   agreement that requires participants to eliminate their tariffs by
   January1, 2000 on a wide range of information technology products.
   These products include computer hardware and peripherals,
   telecommunications equipment, computer software, semiconductor
   manufacturing equipment, analytical instruments, and semiconductors and
   other electronic components. As of December 2000, the ITA had 36
   participants (with the 15 members of the European Union participating
   as one bloc) that represent approximately 95 percent of world trade in
   information technology products. Countries covered in this report that
   are signatories to the ITA include Hong Kong, India, Philippines,
   Indonesia, Japan, Singapore, Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, and Malaysia.
   Once China accedes to the WTO, it will sign onto the ITA, committing to
   an elimination of tariffs on two-thirds of the products covered under
   the ITA by January 1, 2003, and elimination on tariffs for all the
   remaining products by January 1, 2005. Basic Telecommunications
   Services Agreement Sixty-nine countries, accounting for more than 90
   percent of the world's estimated $900 billion annual telecommunications
   revenues, concluded a telecommunications services agreement on February
   15, 1997, under the auspices of the WTO. The Basic Telecommunications
   Services Agreement consists of three parts: market access, national
   treatment, and pro-competitive regulatory principles. The Agreement
   entered into force on February 5, 1998. Asian signatories include:
   Bangladesh, Brunei, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Japan, Korea,
   Malaysia, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, the Philippines, Singapore, Sri
   Lanka, and Thailand. It is expected that once China enters the WTO, it
   will also sign onto the Agreement, allowing for further opportunities
   for foreign participation in the market. 10 Office of Information
   Technologies/ Office of Telecommunications Technologies, USDOC,
   December 2000 Opportunities for U.S. companies in the Asian IT market
   include: * Security-related technologies * Electronic commerce
   solutions for vertical markets such as government, banking and
   manufacturing * Business applications software * Internet-related
   technologies and services * Internet Content Providers (ICPs) * Supply
   chain management * Networking equipment * Wireless applications,
   devices, and services * Value-added telecommunications services 11
   Office of Information Technologies/ Office of Telecommunications
   Technologies, USDOC, December 2000 CHAPTER 2: SELECTED ASIAN MARKET
   SNAPSHOTS CHINA Internet use in China is becoming more widespread for
   people of lower income and Information Technology (IT) educational
   levels and will grow faster there According to International Data
   Corporation than in any other nation in the Asia-Pacific (IDC), China
   is expected to surpass Australia region in the near future. The number
   of by 2001 to become the Asia-Pacific region's Chinese Internet users
   is expected to increase largest IT market, excluding Japan. China's at
   a 63 percent average annual rate from 4.5 purchases of IT hardware,
   software, and million in 1999 to 51.2 million in 2004, services should
   reach nearly $14 billion in according to a recent IDC study. The
   Chinese 2000 and triple by 2004, accounting for nearly government is
   also very supportive of a third of the Asia-Pacific region, excluding
   developing China's information industry. The Japan. government's 10th
   Five-Year Plan (2001-05) will address the development of the country's
   Approximately 88 percent of China's IT information industry for the
   first time. spending went to hardware in 1999. However, this share will
   decline to 77.7 percent in 2004, Electronic Commerce while those for
   software and IT services E-businesses in China are multiplying almost
   spending will increase to 11.7 percent and as rapidly as Internet
   users. MII estimates that 10.7 percent, respectively. China is also the
   there are now at least 1,100 e-commerce firms second largest personal
   computer (PC) market in operation. Of these, more than 600 are after
   Japan in Asia. According to the Ministry online stores, compared to
   less than 100 at the of Information Industry (MII), sales of these
   beginning of 1999. On average, two new systems have risen at a 67
   percent average e-commerce firms are set up each day. annual rate since
   1993 to more than 4 million According to MII's Computer & units
   annually. Domestic manufacturers have Microelectronics Development
   Research captured more than 70 percent of these sales Centre and
   Ccidnet.com, the volume of online while U.S. firms have held much of
   the shopping is expected to reach $42 million by remainder. Imports
   represent about 70 percent the end of 2000. of China's demand for
   packaged software. U.S. firms have been the dominant suppliers, There
   are a number of reasons why Chinese particularly to the transportation,
   consumers are not shopping online in larger telecommunications,
   banking, and education numbers. Most online purchases are currently
   sectors. China is the sixth fastest growing paid for in cash,
   deliveries are slow and large U.S. IT export market in the world, with
   unreliable, consumers mistrust online computer equipment as the leading
   export merchants, and concerns exist over secure market segment. The
   level of these exports has electronic payment. China currently lacks a
   more than doubled from $1.5 billion in 1993 to nationwide electronic
   payment system capable $3.3 billion in 1999, according to data of
   handling online purchases. Debit cards are compiled by the American
   Electronics currently the best option for developing an Association.
   online payment scheme. However, the lack of 12 Office of Information
   Technologies/ Office of Telecommunications Technologies, USDOC,
   December 2000 cooperation among banks and central However, this
   situation will change after supervision means that cross-bank
   transactions China joins the World Trade Organization originating on
   the Internet are impossible. (WTO), when China's telecommunications
   services markets will be gradually opened to Companies engaging in
   business-to-business foreign investment. (B2B) electronic commere also
   face similar challenges, including insufficient transport and
   communications networks, banks that cannot INDIA process transactions
   from one branch to another, and restrictions on services such as
   Information Technology (IT) insurance and distribution. According to
   International Data Corporation (IDC), the IT market (computer systems,
   Telecommunications packaged software, and computer services) in China
   is currently the world's second largest India totaled $3 billion in
   1999, is expected to telecommunications market and is expected to
   increase 27 percent to $3.8 billion in 2000, surpass the United States
   as the largest market and is forecast to grow to $7 billion by 2002.
   over the next few years. U.S. exports of Both the government and the
   private sector telecommunications equipment to China have increased
   their use of computers and a amounted to $547 million in 1999, while
   surge of interest in the Internet and electronic imports of
   telecommunications equipment from commerce is fueling market growth.
   China amounted to $2,485 million. Exports tend to be more advanced
   technology products, Factors contributing to accelerated growth in such
   as networking equipment, while imports IT include: 1) continued
   economic tend to be commodity products, such as improvement; 2) low IT
   penetration, telephones and answering machines. particularly in the
   consumer segment; 3) hardware price erosion (many home personal Mobile
   phones are one of the fastest growing computers, PCs, now cost $800 or
   less) ; 4) sectors in China's telecommunications market. the rapid
   increase expected in the number of China had 40 million mobile
   subscribers at Internet users; 5) substantial investment in IT year-end
   1999. It is expected to have 60 for national competitiveness (currently
   less million by the end of this year and projected to than 1 percent of
   its GDP, but expected to have 150 million by 2005. reach 2.5 percent by
   2003); 6) import tariffs and taxes that are likely to drop over the
   next In addition to its 40 million mobile five years; and 7) local
   expertise in software subscribers, China had over 130 million
   development. Factors inhibiting accelerated wireline subscribers at
   year-end 1999. These growth include: 1) an underdeveloped equate to
   per-capita penetration ratios of just telecommunications infrastructure
   (although 13.5 percent for wireline and 3.5 percent for there are
   approximately 1 billion people in mobile, illustrating the tremendous
   opportunity India, only 18 million have access to telephone for further
   growth. Foreign participation in lines); and 2) a lack of local
   language software China's telecommunications market has and content.
   primarily been limited to equipment sales since it is illegal for
   foreign companies to own Statistics for the number of Internet
   subscribers or operate communications networks in China. and users vary
   by analysts, with most estimates 13 Office of Information Technologies/
   Office of Telecommunications Technologies, USDOC, December 2000
   indicating that a small minority of the sector by raising the limit
   from 49 percent population has access to the Internet in India. to100
   percent. All estimates, however, indicate that India has less than one
   percent Internet penetration rate. The opportunity for e-commerce
   should Internet use is more than three times the expand with the growth
   of Internet use. subscriber rate, with estimates between 1.4 According
   to a 1999 report by IDC, million and 2.6 million, due to the e-commerce
   in India is emerging and has commonplace sharing of subscriber
   accounts. registered transactions worth $30 million, with Approximately
   85 percent of Internet users projections for $575 million by financial
   year live in eight cities, with about 40 percent 2002-3. Nasscom
   reports more optimistic concentrated in New Delhi and Mumbai. figures
   estimating e-commerce transactions Hyderabad and Bangalore also have
   high worth $800 million in 2000-01, up from about Internet penetration
   rates. Internet sharing is $100 million in 1999, and projects growth to
   commonplace in Pune, Calcutta and Bangalore $2.5 billion by 2002. where
   a high proportion of people access the Internet from educational
   institutions. Cyber B2B transactions constitute the majority of e-
   cafes and kiosks also offer opportunities to commerce transactions in
   India, although access the Internet. According to a Gartner widespread
   use is slow in developing. Group survey, 60 percent of Indian users
   surf According to a recent study by Netmonitor, from cyber cafes. Rural
   India is virtually only 7 percent of India's Internet-using
   disconnected from the World Wide Web. The businessmen have done any
   kind of e- cost of Internet access, reported to be commerce transaction
   for their business, and approximately $42 for 20 hours/month, equals
   only 15 percent have posted web sites. 8 percent of the average gross
   domestic However, the number of business users is product (GDP) per
   capita income. On a growing rapidly, with more than one dozen regional
   basis, India is currently the fifth B2B portals currently in operation
   and about largest Internet user market in the Asia Pacific 6,000
   companies listing goods through these region, after China, Korea,
   Australia and sites. Nasscom estimates B2B transactions Taiwan. will be
   around $700 million for 2000-01. Electronic Commerce Challenges still
   exist in the area of business- Although India faces many obstacles
   before e- to-consumer (B2C) e-marketing. A survey commerce can become
   an important economic conducted by the Indian Market Research engine,
   both the government and private sector Bureau revealed that only 26
   percent of the are developing solutions to address some of respondents
   were aware of the shopping these limitations. One significant step was
   the possibilities available on the Internet. The May 2000 approval of
   the IT Bill which Gartner Group also notes that only 2 percent of
   should establish the legal and regulatory Indian Internet users have
   engaged in B2C e- framework for e-commerce. The bill paves commerce, or
   paid on-line. Another limiting the way for a system of electronic
   records, factor in India's B2C e-commerce sector is the
   electronic/digital signatures, payment relatively small number of
   credit card holders gateways and certifying authority. The Indian among
   the country's total population. One government also eased restrictions
   on foreign industry estimate has placed the percentage of direct
   investments (FDI) in the e-commerce Internet users with credit cards in
   the 40 14 Office of Information Technologies/ Office of
   Telecommunications Technologies, USDOC, December 2000 percent range.
   Meanwhile, the distribution of Telecommunications, now called Bharat
   on-line purchases could be further complicated Sanchar Nigam Ltd., or
   BSNL) was by India's complex postal system. established as a separate
   commercial entity ("corporatized") on October 1, 2000 and is no
   Telecommunications longer a part of the Ministry of India's 27 million
   line telephone network is Communications. The government has also among
   the top 10 largest networks in the world announced that the state
   monopoly on and third largest among the emerging international
   telecommunications services economies. It has been growing at an
   average (held by Videsh Sanchar Nigam Ltd., or of more than 20 percent
   annually for the last VSNL) will end by April 1, 2002. India's few
   years. Currently, India has a relatively international
   telecommunications traffic is low teledensity of 2.7, with plans for
   growing at nearly 20 percent per year, and the eliminating waiting
   lists for telephones by United States is India's second largest market
   2002 and achieving a teledensity of 7 by 2005 for outbound minutes
   after Saudi Arabia. and 15 by 2010. This will require 75 million
   telephone connections by 2005 and 175 There is a cap of 49 percent
   foreign ownership million by 2010. At current prices, this investment
   in companies providing basic and translates into additional investments
   of cellular telephony; 51 percent is allowed for approximately $36
   billion by 2005 and $69 value added services. There have been recent
   billion in the following five years. The reports that these caps may be
   lifted to investment potential is not limited to basic encourage a
   greater amount of foreign telephony, but is spread across a wide range
   of investment in India's telecommunications services and technologies,
   including cellular, sector. There is no limit on foreign equity in
   Internet, radio trunking, Global Mobile infrastructure providers, such
   as those who Personal Communications System (GMPCS), supply passive
   infrastructure (e.g., dark fiber) and other value added services.
   Growth in and those who provide end to end bandwidth various services
   is expected to facilitate a to service providers. Plans are underway
   for tremendous growth in the market for issuing licenses for basic
   telephony in the 14 telecommunications equipment. India's regions of
   the country which as yet have no cellular network, based entirely on
   900 Mhz competitive fixed service provider. There are GSM (Global
   System for Mobile also reports that the current duopoly for
   Communications), is growing fast, with 2.2 cellular services may be
   abolished and the million current subscribers and an additional sector
   deregulated. one million expected to be added by the end of 2000.
   INDONESIA The Indian government issued a New Telecommunications Policy
   in 1999 and made Information Technology (IT) several announcements
   during the summer of The market for IT products and services in 2000 to
   further liberalize the market. The Indonesia totaled $638 million in
   1999 and is Indian domestic long distance market was expected to reach
   $1.95 billion in 2004, opened to private sector participation on
   representing a compound annual growth of 25 August 15. The new
   state-owned service percent between 1999 and 2004 according to provider
   (formerly the Department of International Data Corporation (IDC). 15
   Office of Information Technologies/ Office of Telecommunications
   Technologies, USDOC, December 2000 Although the personal computer (PC)
   in the business-to-consumer (B2C) segment penetration rate remains
   relatively low at 1.7, remains relatively low given that Indonesia is
   and Internet usage is still in its infancy still a cash-based society.
   According to (estimated to be nearly 900,000), the potential industry
   estimates, approximately 90 percent growth in the IT market is
   promising given that of consumer purchases are made in cash. To
   Indonesia houses the fourth largest population further encourage the
   development of e- in the world. The number of Internet users is
   commerce in Indonesia, a draft of cyber expected to exceed 4 million in
   2003 and the regulations is currently under review by the number of
   active Internet Service Providers Law and Judicial Ministry. (ISPs) is
   expected to grow from 35 in 1999 to over 60 over the next few years,
   according to Telecommunications the Indonesian Internet Service
   Providers Indonesia's telecommunications market is on Association. the
   path to liberalization, which will occur in stages over the next few
   years. At this point, In the past, the Indonesian government has not
   there are two major players in the market: PT placed a great deal of
   emphasis on the Telekomunikasi Indonesia (Telkom) which has development
   of its information and a monopoly on domestic call services, and PT
   communications industry. For this reason, Indonesia Satellite
   Corporation (Indosat) most of the IT businesses in Indonesia serve as
   which has control over international call agents and distributors for
   IT multinationals. services. The Indonesian government has The
   government is now viewing IT proposed that Telkom will maintain its
   development as a way to boost its economy. monopoly on long distance
   and domestic calls, The government has invested $70 million into until
   2005 and 2010, respectively. According their national infrastructure
   plan, Nusantara 21 to press reports, the government's plan allows
   (N-21), to build an information superhighway foreign telecommunications
   companies to enter that will connect 11 major cities by 2001. the
   domestic call services market with the stipulation that they must enter
   into an Electronic Commerce agreement with Telkom and pay it a The
   financial crisis that plagued Asia in 1997 compensation fee. The
   Indonesian government served as a catalyst to stimulate the recognizes
   that new entrants into the development of electronic commerce in
   telecommunications market would accelerate Indonesia. According to IDC,
   e-commerce market liberalization efforts, however they transactions are
   expected to be $250 million want Telkom to have control over which by
   year-end 2000 and reach $3.2 billion by companies are able to enter the
   market until the 2003. The most promising vertical markets dates
   specified in their liberalization plan. include retail, banking and
   finance, transportation, and manufacturing. The Gartner In 1996, the
   Indonesian government proposed Group ranks Indonesia among the top
   nations an initiative to install five million new in Asia for
   e-procurement services. Indonesia telephone lines by the end of 1999.
   Working is expected to grow 195 percent and 215 in cooperation with
   private consortia, the percent in the direct and indirect e- government
   planned to install three million procurement segment respectively.
   Although new lines, while the remaining two million the
   business-to-business (B2B) market in were to be installed by the
   private consortia, Indonesia is projected to grow rapidly, growth
   consisting of 5 companies covering a specified 16 Office of Information
   Technologies/ Office of Telecommunications Technologies, USDOC,
   December 2000 region in Indonesia. The economic crisis market,
   purchases for Y2K remediation, slowed the installation of these lines,
   and the increased Internet use, and deployment of e- government (PT.
   Telkom) still plans to install business strategies. In addition, a
   growing 3 million lines. However, they have requested number of
   Japanese firms are investing in and that the private companies now
   install 1.26 upgrading computers and related million lines.
   infrastructures, such as local area networks (LANs) and extranets, to
   increase efficiency Compared with other Asian countries, the and
   productivity and to improve mobile phone penetration in Indonesia is
   quite competitiveness. In 1999, 90 percent of mid- low at one in 100
   people in 1999. However, and large-sized Japanese firms had LANs
   according to Telkom, during the first quarter of installed. 1999, the
   cellular phone market experienced nearly a 30 percent growth in new
   subscribers. As hardware sales surge along with increasing It appears
   that the government is committed to Internet use, new and sophisticated
   software is developing the cellular telecommunications in demand.
   Japan's software market reached market, especially with a proposed
   target of revenues of $12.4 billion in 1999, a 10 percent installing 3
   million cellular lines by 2000. increase from 1998. Business process
   re- engineering is gaining the attention of Japanese Indonesia
   currently employs three different businesses, spurring strong demand
   for cellular technologies: Global System for software to improve
   efficiency, namely Mobile Communications (GSM); Nordic database
   management systems (DBMS), Mobile Telecommunications (NMT)-450I, and
   customer relationship management (CRM), and Advanced Mobile Phone
   Service (AMPS). groupware software. Many Japanese firms are Industry
   insiders predict that the demand for starting to implement e-commerce
   strategies, cellular phones will significantly increase in and demand
   for Internet and e-commerce the next few years due to the popularity of
   software is predicted to be very high in the prepaid cellular calling
   cards. These prepaid coming years. In addition to sophisticated cards
   continue to attract new cellular software, the rise in the personal
   computer subscribers, both corporate and personal, (PC) penetration
   rate is in turn spurring because the cards are relatively easy to
   secure. demand for various types of applications, such as word
   processing, Internet/web software, e- mail translation software,
   pre-installed suite JAPAN software packages, and security and network
   software. Information Technology (IT) Japan's computer market is
   growing rapidly. Some industry experts suggest that Japan is a U.S.
   Department of Commerce market few years behind the United States in
   Internet specialists in Tokyo report that the market's use. Japan's
   Ministry of Posts and revenues reached $50 billion in 2000.
   Telecommunications (MPT) recently reported Demand had fallen in recent
   years due to the that 27 million Japanese currently use the country's
   prolonged recession, but is Internet - more than one third of those via
   increasing again because of the improving mobile phones - for an
   Internet penetration rate Japanese economy, significant price of
   approximately 21 percent. The number of competition, expansion of the
   consumer users is expected to rise steadily as PCs 17 Office of
   Information Technologies/ Office of Telecommunications Technologies,
   USDOC, December 2000 increasingly penetrate homes and businesses
   Telecommunications and as Internet-enabled handheld devices Japanese
   demand for telecommunications continue to gain popularity. By 2003, the
   equipment, excluding fiber optic cable, was number of Internet users in
   Japan is projected estimated at $29.7 billion in 1999, making it to
   reach 76 million, or 60 percent of the the second largest
   telecommunications market country's population. in the world after the
   United States. Japan's local telecommunications service market has
   Electronic Commerce been long dominated by the monopoly Total
   e-commerce revenues in Japan reached supplier, Nippon Telegraph and
   Telephone approximately $4.2 billion in 1999. They are (NTT), which has
   a 64 percent share of the expected to more than double in 2000 to $7.4
   total domestic services market and a 98 billion and to amount to $693
   billion in 2003, percent share of the local services market. In
   according to the Ministry of International mid-1999, NTT was
   restructured into one long Trade and Industry (MITI) and Anderson
   distance/international communications Consulting. Rapid growth is due
   to a number company and two regional communications of factors,
   including more Japanese language companies, under a single holding
   company content; increased security; increased which is not involved in
   communications availability of inexpensive, high-quality PCs; business
   operations. and recent telecommunications liberalization. Nonetheless,
   Japan's e-commerce market lags One of the highest growth sectors has
   been several years behind that of the United States. wireless
   communications. There are over 60 million wireless users in Japan (50
   percent Most e-commerce growth will be in business- penetration), and
   wireless access to the to-business (B2B) revenues, which grew 420
   Internet is driving growth. NTT DoCoMo percent from $610 million in
   1998 to $3.2 continues to be the market leader, with 55 billion in
   1999. The market is predicted to percent of total subscribers. The
   long- expand to $651 billion in revenues by 2003. anticipated merger
   creating KDDI, a viable The penetration rate of B2B purchases as a
   competitor to NTT, was just completed in percentage of all business
   transactions in 1998 October 2000. The merger unites DDI, KDD was
   approximately 8 percent, and could reach and IDO, companies that serve
   as long around 40 percent by 2003. Firms in all distance, overseas and
   wireless carriers, industries reportedly are realizing B2B's
   respectively. potential to increase efficiency and cut costs, and are
   interested in investing in these Historically, Japan's
   telecommunications technologies. The distribution industry is one
   market has been relatively highly regulated. of the largest users of
   B2B technologies and, Over the past several years, the Japanese along
   with the auto parts, electronic government has recognized that the
   economic information, and construction industries, is benefits of a
   dynamic telecommunications predicted to have significant growth in B2B
   e- sector require vigorous competition and broad commerce use,
   according to Anderson market participation. Through independent
   Consulting and MITI. deregulation initiatives (U.S.-Japan Framework and
   the Enhanced Initiative on Deregulation) and through implementing its
   WTO commitments, Japan has taken several 18 Office of Information
   Technologies/ Office of Telecommunications Technologies, USDOC,
   December 2000 significant measures to foster a more pro- Until very
   recently, there were only two competitive regulatory regime in the
   Internet service providers (ISPs) operating in telecommunications
   sector, including a Malaysia. The new ISP, Maxis Net, offers one
   significant reduction in NTT's interconnection year free access to
   existing fixed and cellular charges. Bilateral discussions on further
   subscribers, which should encourage increased deregulation are ongoing.
   In addition, in Internet usage and put pressure on the other August
   2000, Japan's trade ministry proposed two ISPs to offer more
   competitive services. a series of sweeping telecommunications The
   number of Internet dial-up accounts was reforms designed to open the
   523,000 in 1999, and is expected to reach 1.4 telecommunications market
   to competition so million in 2004. According to International that
   Japan does not slip behind the rest of the Data Corporation (IDC), the
   number of domain world in telecommunications market names registered
   through the Malaysian innovation. Network Information Center increased
   from 2,312 in 1998 to 5,231 in 1999. MALAYSIA Electronic Commerce The
   Malaysian government has also passed Information Technology (IT)
   legislation that supports the development of the The Malaysian
   government has taken an active Internet and electronic commerce. The
   role in integrating IT and telecommunications Communications and
   Multimedia Commission into the community. The Multimedia Act of 1998
   establishes the Malaysian SuperCorridor (MSC) project is an ambitious
   Communications and Multimedia Commission initiative that began in 1996
   to build Asia's (CMC), the regulatory body overseeing the version of
   the Silicon Valley, which would communications and multimedia industry.
   The incorporate flagship applications such as Multimedia Convergence
   Bill, passed in 1998, electronic government, smart schools, and
   recognizes the convergence of telemedicine. The MSC is part of the
   telecommunications, computing, and Malaysian government's Vision 2020,
   their broadcasting technologies. The Digital national IT development
   plan. U.S. companies Signature Act, effective October 1998, that have
   invested in MSC include Microsoft, recognizes the legal status of
   digital signatures. Sun Microsystems, Oracle, and IBM. To date,
   electronic commerce transactions are not taxed in Malaysia. In 1999,
   Malaysia ranked fifth in the Asia- Pacific region for high-tech U.S.
   exports. The electronic commerce market is rapidly High-tech exports to
   Malaysia totaled $6.2 taking off in Malaysia. The business-to- billion,
   representing a 118 percent growth rate consumer (B2C) market is
   currently growing between 1993 and 1999. Due to lower faster than the
   business-to-business (B2B) production costs and attractive investment
   market due to the media attention placed on the incentives, Malaysia
   was the third largest B2C segment. E-commerce in Malaysia has market in
   Asia-Pacific and seventh in the burgeoned in the past year largely
   because of world for U.S. electronics manufacturing the rush to cash in
   on the euphoria generated by investment in 1998, which totaled $3.4
   billion. the phenomenal rise in Internet-related stocks. Motorola,
   Texas Instruments, and Intel have As in the United States, some of the
   most high significant investments in Malaysia. 19 Office of Information
   Technologies/ Office of Telecommunications Technologies, USDOC,
   December 2000 profile e-commerce investments have been in PHILIPPINES
   the B2C area. Information Technology (IT) Telecommunications The
   Philippines was the fastest growing Malaysia is rapidly upgrading its
   market in Asia-Pacific for U.S. high-tech telecommunications
   infrastructure to meet the exports between 1993 and 1999, quadrupling
   growing demand for services and to enable to $4.9 billion, with
   semiconductors value-added services such as electronic accounting for
   $4.1 billion of this trade. commerce, interactive distance learning,
   Between 1993 and 1998, U.S. technology video-on-demand and interactive
   multimedia manufacturing investment in the Philippines content. The
   country is looking for and increased 237 percent, making it the 8th
   largest purchasing state-of-the-art equipment and market for U.S.
   high-tech investment. The technology. Unlike many countries in the
   strength of the electronics assembly industry in region, the
   telecommunications sector in the Philippines has prompted many leading
   Malaysia has been privatized, making it a U.S. information technology
   companies, such highly competitive market. Despite the recent as Intel,
   Motorola, and Texas Instruments to economic crisis, demand for basic
   and value- expand their assembly operations there. As a added
   telecommunications services has result, between 1993 and 1999, U.S.
   imports remained strong. The Ministry of of computers from the
   Philippines increased Telecommunications has issued 36 licenses for
   1600 percent. The Philippines ranked tenth in the provision of
   value-added services, and high-tech merchandise exports to the United
   five international gateway licenses. States from 1993 to 1999, growing
   347 percent. During this same period, the Most of the cellular networks
   are available in Philippines was ranked our tenth largest Malaysia,
   including Nordic Mobile trading partner in high-tech trade (with the
   Telecommunications (NMT) 450, ART 900 European Union considered as one
   single (Celcom's analog system), Advanced Mobile trading partner).
   Phone System (AMPS) 800, Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM),
   and Personal The Philippines is also becoming a major IT Communications
   Network (PCN). According hub for multinationals. An increasing number
   to the CMC, there were approximately 2.1 of U.S. firms are locating
   engineering design, million cellular telephone subscribers.
   manufacturing design, call centers, back office Industry analysts
   suggest that cellular operations, outsourcing centers and software
   subscribers may be a good market segment to development there. These
   companies include tap for value-added on-line services, America On-Line
   (AOL), Barnes and Noble, especially since the mobile phone penetration
   Fluor Daniel, Bechtel, Sealand, and Citibank rate is much higher than
   the personal computer among others. (PC) penetration rate. The number
   of websites increased by over 200 percent annually from a handful in
   1994 to 500 by 1998. According to the Philippine Internet Service
   Organization, there are currently 600,000 Internet users nationwide. By
   2004, the number of users is expected to reach 1.3 20 Office of
   Information Technologies/ Office of Telecommunications Technologies,
   USDOC, December 2000 million. According to Pyramid Research, the
   Filinvest - which are actively promoting number of Internet dial-up
   accounts will investments by IT firms. An increasing number increase
   from 330,000 in 1999 to 2.9 million of U.S. firms are locating
   engineering design, by 2004. A highly-educated middle-class
   manufacturing design, call centers, back office population and a
   well-developed consumer operations, outsourcing centers, and software
   culture are contributing factors that have development. spurred this
   growth. Other factors contributing to the growth of Internet usage
   include a high Electronic Commerce literacy rate, willingness to
   embrace the Despite the limited Internet penetration rate Internet and
   electronic commerce, and and telecommunications infrastructure,
   expected growth in gross domestic product electronic commerce is
   starting to develop in (GDP) per capita from $3,582 in 1999 to the
   Philippines, particularly with the recent $3,692 in 2000. passage of
   the Electronic Commerce Act. Passage of the Act by President Estrada
   Although Internet usage is increasing rapidly, signaled the full
   support of the Philippine several obstacles still remain that may slow
   government in the development of electronic down this growth. The
   monthly cost of commerce in the country. The Act addresses accessing
   the Internet is relatively expensive at critical issues such as the
   admissibility of $22 for 80 hours in a country with a per capita
   digital signatures and electronic documents in income of $988. For this
   reason, the number courts, authentication, and infrastructure of
   Internet users is substantially higher than security. The latter is
   critical, given the recent subscribers. Of the 180 Internet service
   global effects of the "I Love You" virus that providers (ISPs), only
   twenty have originated in the Philippines. The new law international
   connections. The high cost of features stiff penalties to deter cyber
   crimes. bandwidth results in the majority of ISPs Fines range from
   $2500 for hacking to choosing to lease cheaper and smaller $250,000 for
   electronic commerce-related bandwidth alternatives. To lease an E1 line
   crimes. Imprisonment can range from six from the Philippines to the
   United States, an months to three years. Although electronic ISP would
   pay approximately $40,000 per commerce is still in its infancy in the
   month versus $6,000 to $7,000 to lease a 64K Philippines, the passage
   of this law and the line. The cheaper option results in slower and
   increase in Internet users will spur its less reliable dial-up access
   for the users. development. Industry experts believe that a According
   to a recent survey, 75 percent of minimum of 500,000 Internet users are
   needed users log off the Internet due to frustration with to make
   electronic commerce viable in the the slow Internet connection. The
   leading ISPs Philippines. are Infocom, which was bought in 1998 by the
   Philippine Long Distance Telephone Company President Estrada recently
   mandated the (PLDT) and has a direct fiber optic link Electronic
   Commerce Promotion Council, installed in its Network Operations Centre,
   headed by Secretary Mar Roxas of the and SkyInternet, which also offers
   high-speed Department of Trade and Industry, to update cable Internet
   access. investment policies and formulate promotional activities
   related to the promotion of electronic Currently, there are three "IT
   zones" in Metro commerce in the Philippines. Roxas has been Manila -
   Eastwood City, Fort Bonifacio, and negotiating with international
   companies to 21 Office of Information Technologies/ Office of
   Telecommunications Technologies, USDOC, December 2000 invest in and
   partner with Philippine IT domestic and international fixed line
   provider companies and service providers. and continues to operate the
   most extensive nationwide domestic fiber optic network and The
   business-to-business (B2B) electronic microwave long distance network.
   The commerce market represents one of the fastest cellular telephone
   system showed the greatest growing sectors in the Philippines. Many
   growth over the past three years. Cellular multinationals and other
   large companies are subscribers more than tripled from 500,000 in
   already engaged in e-commerce activities and 1995 to 1.8 million by the
   end of 1999. Cable smaller companies are moving toward e- TV is also
   one of the fastest growing industries commerce readiness. More and more
   ISPs are in the Philippines. By the end of 1999, there expanding their
   services to include not only were approximately 1 million cable TV
   access but also content provision and subscribers with an annual growth
   rate of 20 electronic commerce and payment gateways. percent.
   Business-to-consumer (B2C) websites have Although the IT equipment and
   investment also started emerging in the Philippine markets are
   relatively open, there are still marketplace. Most of these sites only
   accept some concerns that persist with regard to the cash payment.
   Credit card payments are telecommunications market. Despite the
   entertained by some sites, but the manual numerous deregulation
   measures, the lack of process of signing the credit card slip upon
   competition has prevented the improvement of delivery is still being
   used. Moreover, a large telecommunications infrastructure quality.
   majority of firms do not rely on a web Interconnection issues between
   PLDT and presence to conduct business. According to smaller regional
   networks continue to present the latest International Data Corporation
   (IDC) problems, and the National research, in 1999, about 100,000
   Internet users Telecommunications Commission has shown shopped online.
   As Filipinos become more itself to be unwilling or unable to enforce
   assured of the security of data and the efficacy existing regulations
   that require reasonable of online transactions, IDC predicts the
   interconnection terms. In addition, the numbers to increase to 1.3
   million online Philippines has signed but not ratified the shoppers by
   2004. Basic Telecommunications Agreement, indicating a lack of
   commitment to enforce Telecommunications concessions agreed upon within
   the World The Philippine government passed three Trade Organization
   (WTO) framework. significant laws (Executive Order 59, Executive Order
   109, and the Republic Act The Philippine Constitution limits foreign
   7925) which opened the market to competition investment in
   telecommunications networks to in 1993. As a result of the
   deregulation, ten 40 percent of equity and bans foreign new companies
   entered the market to challenge investment in cable television
   networks. A the former incumbent, PLDT, and fixed line convergence bill
   is pending in the Philippines costs lowered for the population.
   Nationwide Congress that would permit up to 40 percent telephone
   density increased from 1.4 per 100 foreign equity ownership in cable
   networks. in 1993 to 10 by the end of 1999. In Manila, This proposal,
   and proposals to increase there are almost 20 phones per 100 people.
   overall foreign investment limits are very PDLT still remains the
   nation's principal 22 Office of Information Technologies/ Office of
   Telecommunications Technologies, USDOC, December 2000 controversial and
   opposed by entrenched from $118 million in 1999 to $6.3 billion by
   interest groups. 2004. Factors that contribute to e-commerce and IT
   growth in Singapore include a high literacy rate, a high Internet
   penetration rate, a SINGAPORE high gross domestic product (GDP) per
   capita, a well-developed telecommunications Information Technology (IT)
   infrastructure, a strong technical labor force, Singapore is a very
   significant market for U.S. and active government support. Singapore
   had IT interests. In 1998, Singapore was the the highest GDP per capita
   in the Asia-Pacific largest market in the Asia-Pacific region and
   region at $26,300 in 1999 and second highest the second largest in the
   world for U.S. high- in the world after the United States. tech
   manufacturing investment according to the Bureau of Economic Analysis.
   In 1999, the The rate of IT adoption varies among United States
   exported $7.4 billion in high- businesses in Singapore. According to
   the tech equipment, which had increased 52 Singaporean government,
   approximately 96 percent from 1994. According to the percent of large
   enterprises have Internet American Electronics Association, Singapore
   access compared to 86 percent for small- and currently manufactures
   close to half of the medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). Local area
   world's supply of computer disk drives. network (LAN) usage is nearly
   100 percent among larger businesses. Sixty-one percent of The market
   for information technology large firms have websites, compared to 32
   products and services in Singapore totaled percent among SMEs. IT
   spending is highest $2.74 billion in 1999, and is expected to reach
   among the government, IT, $4.46 billion by year-end 2004 according to
   telecommunications, and banking/finance International Data Corporation
   (IDC). Despite sectors. Businesses are expected to increase a small
   population of 3.2 million, Singapore's their IT spending by an average
   of five percent regulatory, commercial, and economic between 2000 and
   2001. According to another environment, makes it one of the leading
   survey conducted by the Singapore Information markets for U.S. IT and
   electronic commerce Technology Federation, of the 188 opportunities in
   the Asia-Pacific region. organizations polled, 15 percent have engaged
   According to a Dataquest survey, Singapore in electronic commerce and
   42 percent will be among the top three nations in the Asia planned to
   within the next 12 months. Among Pacific region in e-commerce
   implementation. the highest percentage of users were the Singapore has
   the second highest Internet government and companies with sales over
   penetration rate in the region after Australia, $100 million. and the
   ninth highest in the world. According to Pyramid Research, there were
   620,000 Electronic Commerce Internet dial-up accounts in 1999. This
   number The Singaporean government has taken an is expected to increase
   five-fold to 3.2 million active role in creating a sound legal by 2004.
   In early 2000, 42 percent of environment that encourages the uptake and
   households had Internet connection. development of electronic commerce.
   Last year, the government developed an e- According to IDC, the volume
   of electronic commerce master plan that addresses security commerce
   transactions is expected to grow and electronic payments concerns. In
   1998, 23 Office of Information Technologies/ Office of
   Telecommunications Technologies, USDOC, December 2000 Singapore passed
   the Electronic Transactions of complete liberalization is expected to
   Act, which gave digital signatures legal status. generate $3 billion in
   foreign investments in The government currently does not tax Singapore.
   electronic commerce transactions. In addition, the Copyright Act was
   amended in 1999 to Singapore places great emphasis on extend IPR
   protection for copyright owners in developing and maintaining a
   sophisticated the digital arena. Singapore has been working and
   advanced telecommunications with its major trading partners to
   harmonize e- infrastructure. In 1999, the commerce laws. The
   Singaporean telecommunications market in Singapore was government's
   policies include encouraging valued at $1.3 billion. According to the
   Internet use, or "Dot.Coming," within the International
   Telecommunications Union Government, private, and personal use sectors
   (ITU), Singapore's 1999 teledensity was of Singaporean society. 57.70.
   The country also has 2.16 million mobile phone subscribers. By
   liberalizing telecommunications, building a nationwide broadband
   network, creating The government's efforts to liberalize and public IT
   investment funds, and providing deregulate the telecommunications
   industry, in easier work visa processing to IT particular the full
   implementation of its World professionals, Singapore has laid the Trade
   Organization (WTO) commitments in groundwork for a vibrant regional and
   global April of this year, should fuel demand and e-commerce hub. The
   country is committed to create opportunities for U.S. firms to sell and
   promoting itself as a trusted global hub for e- invest. In 1999, U.S.
   telecommunications commerce. Singapore now plans to recruit top
   equipment exports to Singapore reached nearly U.S., European, and Asian
   high-tech $290 million. Foreign firms dominate the companies to base
   their Asian operations in telecommunications equipment market in
   Singapore. Singapore because domestic firms cannot meet the demand
   created by the government's Telecommunications infrastructure plans and
   the island's Singapore is considered to have one of the best
   sophisticated consumer base. regulatory and competitive
   telecommunications environments in the world. In April 2000, the
   Ministry of Communication and Information THAILAND Technology fully
   liberalized the telecommunications sector two years ahead of
   Information Technology (IT) schedule. In preparation, the government
   The Thai government announced an IT2000 issued five facilities-based
   and 29 service- plan in 1995, which incorporat
