http://www.nohic.nidcr.nih.gov/welcome.html

   Home Site

   National Oral Health Information Clearinghouse
   Skip navigation and go directly to page content
   Welcome to NOHIC
   What Is Special Care?
   Special Care Publications
   The Oral Health Database
   Order Publications Online
   Resource Links
   Oral Complications of Cancer Treatment
     Welcome to the National Oral Health Information Clearinghouse
   The National Oral Health Information Clearinghouse (NOHIC), a service
   of the National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research, is ready
   to help meet oral health information needs for special care patients.

   Many Americans have medical or disabling conditions that compromise
   oral health. NOHIC is a resource for health professionals and these
   special care patients that gathers and disseminates information from
   many sources, including voluntary health organizations, research
   institutions, government agencies, and industry.

   What Can NOHIC Do For You?

   NOHIC produces and distributes patient and professional education
   materials including fact sheets, brochures, and information packets.
   NOHIC also sponsors the Oral Health Database, which includes
   bibliographic citations, abstracts, and availability information for a
   wide variety of print and audiovisual materials. NOHIC staff provide
   free custom or standard searches on specific special care topics in
   oral health.

   NOHIC is staffed by health information specialists who can address your
   information needs, refer you to other helpful organizations, and
   provide or direct you to current materials that target your interests
   and concerns.
   Email Us
   Comments
   1 NOHIC Way, Bethesda, MD, 20892-3500; Voice: 301-402-7364; Fax:
   301-907-8830; Email: nohic@nidcr.nih.gov; TTY: 301-656-7581
   A service of the National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial
   Research, National Institutes of Health                       NIDCR Logo
   NOHIC Home | What Is Special Care? | Special Care Publications | Order
   Publications Online | The Oral Health Database | Resource Links | Oral
   Complications of Cancer Treatment | E-mail Us | Privacy Statement |
   Disclaimers
