http://www.legislative.noaa.gov/mammal.html

   .. [Marmam.jpg]

Main Page

                                      107th Congress
                             The Marine Mammal Protection Act

            The Marine Mammal Protection Act (MMPA) was enacted in 1972 for the
            purpose of ensuring that marine mammals are maintained at, or in
            some cases restored to, healthy population levels. The original Act
            established a moratorium on the taking (under MMPA, "take" is
            defined as "to harass, hunt, capture, or kill or attempt to harass,
            hunt, capture, or kill any marine mammal") or importing of marine
            mammals except for certain activities which are regulated and
            permitted. These activities
            include scientific research, public display, and the incidental take
            of marine mammals in the course of commercial fishing operations.

            Under the MMPA, jurisdiction over marine mammals under the MMPA is
            split between two agencies, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and
            the National Marine Fisheries Service. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife
            Service (F&WS) has jurisdiction over sea otters, polar bears,
            manatees, dugongs, and walrus while the National Marine Fisheries
            Service (NMFS) has jurisdiction over all other marine mammals.

            Due to a lawsuit which effectively prevented the issuance of permits
            to incidentally take marine mammals in the course of commercial
            fishing operations, the Congress amended the MMPA in 1988 to
            establish a five-year interim exemption for commercial fishing
            operations (with the exception of
            yellowfin tuna fishing). During this period, the NMFS was to
            establish a management program to govern the interaction between
            commercial fishing operations and marine mammals. That exemption
            expired on October 1, 1993, but has twice been extended by temporary
            measures.

            During the interim exemption period, NMFS developed a three-tiered
            fishery classification system based on each fishery's level of
            interaction with marine mammals. Category I fisheries were defined
            as those in which it is highly likely that one marine mammal will be
            taken by a randomly selected
            vessel during a 20-day period. A Category II fishery is one in which
            there is some likelihood of taking one marine mammal during a 20-day
            period, and a Category III fishery is one in which it is highly
            unlikely that any marine mammal will be taken during a 20-day
            period.

            The proposal required fishing vessel owners to register their
            vessels operating in either Category I or II fisheries and to follow
            certain recording and reporting requirements during fishing
            operations and insome cases, carry observers. The Proposed Regime to
            Govern Interactions between Marine
            Mammals and Commercial Fishing Operations was transmitted to
            Congress in December of 1992 following public comment. Following the
            submission of the proposed regime to Congress, debate continued as
            to whether the proposal met the goals of the Act.

            In 1994, in an effort to end this continuing debate, Congress
            reauthorized the MMPA (P.L. 103-238) and made a number of changes to
            the Act. Section 117 requires that marine mammal
            stock assessments be prepared to provide the necessary scientific
            basis for the new incidental take regime. This section also requires
            that the assessments include information on the sources and levels
            of human-caused mortality and serious injury, and identify strategic
            stocks for which take reduction
            plans are needed.

            Section 118 establishes the requirements for the new incidental take
            regime for commercial fisheries. This section requires that the NMFS
            publish a list of commercial fisheries classified according to the
            frequency in which the fishery causes mortality or serious injuries
            to marine mammals. This differs
            from the 1992 NMFS proposal for classification in that it is based
            on mortality or serious injury rather than interaction or take of
            the marine mammal. The new regime also includes a mechanism for
            authorizing a limited incidental take of marine mammals which be
            listed as endangered or threatened.

            Section 120 addresses interactions between pinnipeds and certain
            fishery resources, in particular, the interaction between the
            growing sea lion and harbor seal populations along the Pacific
            coast. This section allows States to apply to the NMFS for the
            authorization to lethally take pinnipeds under certain conditions.
            The section also requires NMFS to investigate the growing
            populations of harbor seals and sea lions and their effects on the
            recovery of salmonids and the coastal ecosystems along the coasts of
            Washington, Oregon and California.

            A number of provisions were also adopted to modify the Act's
            permitting procedures including those dealing with public display,
            scientific research, educational or commercial photography, and
            included a new provision to allow the importation of polar bear
            trophies from Canada.

            While P.L. 103-238 authorized the MMPA through September 30, 1999,
            Members of the House Resources Committee will have an opportunity to
            examine how the 1994 amendments to the Marine Mammal Protection Act
            have been implemented by the National Marine Fisheries Service and
            the Fish and Wildlife Service and to begin discussion which will
            lead to the reauthorization of the Act this year. --narrative
            courtesy of the House Resources Committee


            When they become available, introduced versions of the Marine Mammal
            Protection Act Reauthorization for the 107th Congress will be posted
            here.

       The Informer is a publication of the NOAA Office of Legislative
                                  Affairs.
