http://nbs.nih.gov/whatisnbs/nbsbkgnd.html

          NIH Business System (NBS) Matters Main Menu What is NBS?
          [dotrule.gif]

      What Is NBS?
      Background

      The National Institutes of Health (NIH) evaluated the feasibility of
      replacing its Administrative Data Base (ADB)^[1] with new technology.
      NIH examined the feasibility of purchasing commercial integrated
      software called Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) products and also
      examined the feasibility of upgrading the existing ADB. After the
      completion of the analysis, the NIH decided that the benefits of an ERP
      product outweighed those of updating the current system. The new system
      that emerged was named the NIH Business System (NBS).

   Current ADB

      The current ADB system, built and maintained by NIH staff over the last
      20 years, is an integrated information technology system that services
      most of the administrative activities of the NIH - financial
      management, procurement, inventory, travel, property, and service and
      supply fund activities. The ADB was developed in the 1970's, before the
      introduction of PC's, to operate through mainframe computers. It
      utilizes COBOL, an application programming language developed in the
      1950's and Information Management System, a data base management system
      developed in the 1970's. A number of characteristics of this system,
      not unique to the Administrative Data Base, but characteristic of
      systems built during this period, have led the Center for Information
      Technology (CIT) computer specialists charged with operating and
      maintaining this system, and the intramural and extramural
      administrative community that must use this system, to conclude that a
      replacement is necessary. These characteristics can be summarized as
      follows:
        * The ADB is extraordinarily complex and difficult to modify. The ADB
          has evolved and been modified over the years to the point that it
          now comprises over 800 COBOL programs and 1.5 million lines of
          code. So many people have altered and patched the code so many
          times, over such a long period of time, that the internal structure
          of the system has been compromised. As a result, it is extremely
          tedious and time consuming to revise the code when it is required
          to allow the ADB to support new initiatives or new ways of doing
          business that would improve the service to the scientific and
          administrative communities.
        * The ADB was built before the widespread introduction of PC's with a
          database structure that, while tremendously useful in its day, is
          now antiquated. The NIH Data Warehouse translates ADB data into a
          format that enables formatting and reporting on modern day desktop
          computers, but a significant effort is required to transform the
          data each night from the old database.
        * The ADB now captures information only from the point at which a
          commitment is made by the NIH Institutes and Centers (IC's) to
          obligate funds. However, IC's generally need the capability to
          capture information on the flow of documents through the IC before
          such a commitment of funding is made. Modern systems incorporate
          this capability and allow users to configure the software to meet
          current needs.
        * Personnel skilled in maintaining these outdated technologies are
          dwindling. As expected, the NIH staff maintaining this system has
          shrunk from 20 to 7 over the past 5 years. Of even greater concern
          is that by the end of FY 2000, the senior members of the team who
          are most knowledgeable about the ADB will have retired, or be
          eligible to retire.Consequences of continuing to use the current
          ADB

      Consequences of continuing to use the current ADB
      The end result is that, despite the best efforts of a dedicated CIT
      staff, the ADB is insufficiently flexible and adaptable in an
      environment that is both rapidly changing and demanding rapid response
      to that change. Adding new capabilities to the ADB, or any other such
      system, has been compared to attempting to install a modern-day
      improvement such as air bags into a 1968 Oldsmobile. The time and
      expense that is required to retrofit an improvement into a system that
      was not engineered to anticipate or accept such an improvement
      effectively precludes its installation. Some recent examples illustrate
      the consequences for NIH:

        * The advent of the use of the purchase card to purchase laboratory
          supplies offers the potential to reduce many of the frustrations
          experienced by scientific staff on a daily basis with the
          procurement process. However, since the ADB was built to support
          the NIH purchasing procedures that existed before purchase card
          use, a significant retooling of the system was required before NIH
          could take full advantage of this new flexibility. Successfully
          modifying the ADB's code to allow the reconciliation of these
          purchases and to create a modern Web interface for the user
          stretched over 3 years. Even now, adaptations to accommodate users
          of Macintosh computers are still under development.
        * Congress has enacted several pieces of legislation within the last
          several years to strengthen the financial integrity of government
          accounting systems. The Chief Financial Officers Act, the
          Government Management Reform Act, and the Federal Financial
          Management Improvement Act combined place significant new
          accounting and financial reporting requirements on federal
          agencies. Moreover, the Joint Financial Management Improvement
          Program (a joint effort of the Treasury Department, the Office of
          Management and Budget (OMB), the General Accounting Office (GAO),
          and the Office of Personnel Management) establishes, and
          continually updates, accounting system requirements consistent with
          the standards and legislative requirements. Yearly, we are required
          to undergo an independent audit against these requirements and
          standards. The results of this audit are presented to the Congress,
          the Administration, and the public. The current standards require
          financial statements and accounting requirements that neither
          existed, nor were anticipated, when NIH's Central Accounting System
          was built. Because of the difficulty of rewriting the code to
          retrofit the Central Accounting System to the standards that are
          now enacted in statute, NIH has yet to pass this audit, nor is it
          is likely to do so, until a new accounting system is in place. The
          Fiscal Year 1998 independent audit conducted by Ernst and Young LLP
          on behalf of the Department of Health and Human Services' Office of
          the Inspector General states "We believe that the accounting
          system, which was developed in early 1970 and not designed for
          financial reporting purposes, needs to be enhanced to correct
          certain weaknesses within the system and to improve accountability
          over financial resources." NIH concurred with the audit findings.
        * Other administrative systems such as property, inventory control,
          etc. are widely acknowledged to be in need of improvement. The
          Director, NIH established an internal committee to oversee the
          implementation of recommendations made by Arthur Andersen to
          institute established "best practices" in several of these areas.
          In its report to the Director, NIH, the Committee concluded that a
          significant factor limiting efforts to improve these practices was
          the inability to quickly adapt the ADB to new business methods that
          have developed in these areas. It further concluded that
          "...development of the NBS to be of the highest priority."
        * Costly shadow systems have proliferated within the IC's to satisfy
          their need for better access to ADB data and to provide information
          not contained within the ADB such as tracking the flow of documents
          within an IC. As noted above, the NIH Data Warehouse provides a
          transitional solution to increasing access to data via PCs;
          however, regardless of the ultimate success of the NIH Data
          Warehouse, shadow systems will continue to proliferate because the
          ADB does not contain the totality of administrative information
          such as document tracking that administrative staff require. The
          rewriting of code that is required to provide such a capability
          effectively precludes the development of such a capability within
          the ADB.

   Alternatives to the Current ADB

      In deciding how to upgrade the ADB, the administrative community had
      the good fortune to have a wide range of alternatives. The NIH could
      upgrade its own system or it could purchase one of several commercial
      pieces of ERP software that had been, or was being, deployed in private
      industry, universities, and more recently, in government agencies. Each
      approach had advantages and disadvantages. If NIH were to rebuild its
      own system, it could tailor the system to the unique needs of the NIH;
      at the same time, this would require a sizable cadre of Federal staff
      expert in the latest technologies to build, and then maintain and
      upgrade the system over time. If NIH were to purchase one of the ERP
      commercial packages, it would be consistent with OMB guidance which
      generally favors purchasing systems capability where it is possible to
      do so, and would capitalize on the economies of scale and the expertise
      that have been captured by these large firms, but would likely require
      NIH to adapt some of it business processes to the "best practices"
      captured in these software products.

      Regardless of the approach taken, the potential advantages to the NIH
      of an upgraded system would include the following:
        * Allows an integration of all data within NBS, as well as a shared
          data capability between other systems such as IMPAC II and the
          DHHS's Enterprise Human Resource Planning System, where the
          administrative and research communities utilize common data sets.
        * Allows NIH to capitalize on emerging trends such as electronic
          purchasing via the Internet.
        * Provides NIH with the capability to support processes for
          administrative functions such as property and inventory that are
          considered to be "best practices."
        * Provides NIH with an accounting system that meets the accounting
          standards established by the Joint Financial Management Improvement
          Program.
        * Reduces the need for IC shadow systems by incorporating
          capabilities not available through the ADB and provides
          accessibility of data through PC's.

      NIH plan for evaluating alternatives
      The possibilities for the future are tempered by the experiences of
      others who have embarked on an upgrade of their information technology
      systems. Because of the complexity of deciding if, and how best, to
      establish the NBS, the NIH decided to conduct a ten month technical and
      cost-benefit evaluation of both an in-house system upgrade effort, and
      of the various ERP software packages that are available for government
      agencies. This decision acknowledged the precarious nature of the
      existing system, but also recognized the existence of different
      alternatives, any one of which would entail a significant investment of
      NIH resources. A $1.3 million contract was awarded to KPMG LLP to
      assist NIH in conducting this evaluation and to provide a technical
      evaluation and cost-benefit analysis (business case) supporting a
      recommendation (Phase I). Oversight of this effort was provided by a
      committee of senior staff representing the administrative, intramural
      research, and extramural research communities and was chaired by the
      Deputy Director for Management. This evaluation was completed in 2000
      (FY2000) and the NBS is now in its implementation phase (Phase II).
      _______________________

      ^[1]The term ADB is used in the paper to include both the ADB and the
      Central Accounting System (CAS).

                                [dotrule.gif]
                        Up to Top | Back to Main Menu
                       Questions about the NBS project
