http://www.medbd.ca.gov/10-01actionreport.pdf

   October 2001 ction Report A Vol. 79 A Quarterly Publication Medical
   Board of California www.medbd.ca.gov President's Report 2 Is Your
   Medical Assistant The Medical Board of California Joins the Nation
   Practicing Beyond His or Her Scope? 3 in Sorrow for the Events of Law
   Expands Scope of Optometric Practice and September 11, 2001 Supervision
   of Optometric Assistants 4 and in its Commitment to the Future
   Esthetician Licensing Requirements 5 Effective Pain Management-A Legal
   Update Disabled Person Parking The problem of chronic pain and
   questions to remind physicians of these laws and of the IN THIS ISSUE
   Placards 5 surrounding prescribing for pain were issues of
   Legislature's ongoing interest in this matter of note throughout the
   1990s, and are receiving utmost importance to California patients and
   Lyme Disease continued scrutiny today. The Medical Board of their
   families. Update 6-7 California has been actively addressing these The
   Medical Board employs a multifaceted New Tools for Chlamydia issues
   since 1994, when the Board held its approach to promote the ability of
   physicians to Management "Summit on Effective Pain Management: provide
   appropriate pain relief treatment, as 8-9 Removing the Impediments to
   Appropriate established by emerging community standards. Adult
   Immunization for Prescribing." The result of this work was the The
   Board recognizes that discipline of Influenza and formal adoption by
   the Board in July 1994 of its physicians for the under-treatment of
   pain is, by Pneumococcal Disease 10 Guidelines for the Treatment of
   Intractable Pain, itself, ineffectual as an incentive to effective
   created to complement new law-Business and News From U.S. FDA 12 pain
   management. Patient protection, the Professions Code section
   2241.5-which primary role of the Medical Board, should also Childhood
   Lead Poisoning established California public policy as supportive
   include the promotion of good medical practice Screening 13 of the
   responsible practice of pain management. by positive means. Therefore,
   the Medical These Guidelines are intended to reassure Adverse Events
   Board of California is actively engaged in physicians that they are
   free to use their best Reporting System 14 encouraging the
   dissemination professional judgment, of the latest information and
   Medical Consultant consistent with established As we go to press, AB
   487 educational resources to Positions Available 15 medical standards,
   when treating (Aroner) is pending on the promote appropriate pain
   relief. Administrative patients for pain, rather than on a Governor's
   desk. If signed, The first step was the creation Actions 18-23 fear of
   discipline by the Medical Board. They are republished at this bill will
   require most and publication of the pain the end of this article.
   practicing physicians to relief guidelines of 1994. The Medical Board
   of obtain 12 continuing Board has repeatedly informed California
   Meetings During the 1990s, the education credits within physicians that
   if they follow Legislature passed six bills of the next four years in
   2001 these guidelines, they should particular note dealing with pain
   pain management and not fear charges from the Nov. 1 - 3 San Diego
   management. They, too, are end-of-life care. 2002 briefly summarized in
   this article (Continued on page 16) Jan. 31-Feb. 2 Los Angeles May 9
   -11 Sacramento July 25-27 San Francisco THE MISSION OF THE MEDICAL
   BOARD OF CALIFORNIA Oct. 31-Nov. 2 San Diego The mission of the Medical
   Board of California is to protect consumers through proper licensing
   All meetings are open of physicians and surgeons and certain allied
   health professions to the public. and through the vigorous, objective
   enforcement of the Medical Practice Act. President's Report As the
   calamity that was September 11, underserved population, primarily 2001
   unfolded, we became witness to the Hispanic, exists in regions
   throughout profound bravery of firefighters, police the state, and
   especially in Southern and paramedics. In addition, the Medical
   California, where difficulty with Society of the State of New York
   reports physician access has produced a public 8,000 physicians
   volunteered in a selfless outcry. Over 30 percent of our state's
   expression to aid in medical care, population is Hispanic. Two percent
   of without regard to the risks entailed. One our physician work force
   is Hispanic. particularly moving expression of this Approximately
   17,000 U.S. medical dedication to the welfare of those students
   graduate per year to fill 24,000 imperiled was captured on a news clip
   of residency training positions. a physician in the eye of the storm,
   calling through the ash, "Does anybody Let us look singularly at the
   issue of the need a doctor?" underserved population. One of the Bernard
   S. Alpert, M.D. leading remedies currently being given Webster's best
   allows the -ship suffix to legislative consideration is that of
   President of the Board be attached to professions, and Dr. importing a
   corps of physicians from Maxine Papadakis, Associate Dean for Mexico to
   work in the specific areas Student Affairs at UCSF, one of our state's
   eight fine impacted. As envisioned by its supporters, this may or
   medical schools, has actually introduced the concept into may not
   require state licensure modifications. The the formal evaluation of
   medical students. What is merits and details of this proposal are the
   subject of physicianship? It is the rubric under which one could list
   evaluation and debate. all the reasons we became physicians. It is the
   crucible in which the core elements of professionalism in being a In
   one respect I find heartening the concept of another physician are
   housed; and with its tenets comes the nation, Mexico in this case,
   assisting California with learned and exclusive access to a unique and
   invaluable physician access. Our history is not replete with such body
   of knowledge upon which all citizens depend as offers. Are there not,
   however, other innovative armor against our greatest vulnerabilities.
   It is critical. domestic modalities that might be considered, such as
   incentivizing physician recruitment in these areas by We now react to
   the great shock our system has received. medical school loan relief,
   income tax relief, This requires new policies and ideas. Some feel that
   "empowerment zone" type augmented reimbursement, signs of the impending
   shock were sociologically or even a Berry Plan type model in which
   service is apparent and palpable. I cannot but sense a similar
   exchanged for a designated, predetermined benefit? prodromal
   unsteadiness in our healthcare delivery system. The landscape and
   demographics of California's Consider establishing a branch of one of
   our medical healthcare have evolved to a point of requiring more than
   schools in the underserved regions, where patients maintenance. Keen
   attention, innovation, and adaptation would receive care in the same
   model that has worked are needed to steady our course. To the call,
   "Anybody for many years in our teaching and county hospitals and need a
   doctor?," present-day California answers "yes." satellite locations
   such as currently exist in Fresno. Should we train more U.S. medical
   students, either in One example of an issue that captures the above is
   that existing or additional schools, along with some of the of the
   uninsured and underserved, intertwined groups of incentives mentioned?
   What is the ideal ratio of a magnitude having great systemic impact.
   Complexity domestic graduates to residency training positions? Do
   precludes full analysis in one column, but a brief look at we know?
   some facts, trends, mismatches, and paradoxes argues the need for
   innovative solutions. Other provocative questions emerge: Would
   learning medical, conversational Spanish or Chinese in medical First,
   some background: California is home for a large school be more valuable
   than biochemistry? Should number of medically uninsured-reports
   indicate up to seven million-for a plethora of reasons. A large,
   (Continued on page 17) Medical Board of California ACTION REPORT Page 2
   October 2001 Is Your Medical Assistant Practicing Beyond His or Her
   Scope of Training? The Medical Board receives numerous inquiries
   concerning standing order prepared by the supervising physician or the
   use of medical assistants in a physician's office. (By podiatrist
   authorizing the procedures to be performed, the law, a medical
   assistant may not be employed for inpatient duration of which shall be
   consistent with accepted medical care in a licensed general acute care
   hospital.) practice. A notation of the standing order shall be placed
   in Medical assistants are unlicensed, and may only perform the
   patient's medical record. basic administrative, clerical and technical
   supportive Other technical supportive services which a medical services
   as permitted by law. An unlicensed person may not assistant may perform
   have been established by regulation diagnose or treat or perform any
   task that is invasive or to include: applying and removing bandages and
   dressings, requires assessment. The responsibility for the appropriate
   removing sutures, performing ear lavage, preparing patients use of
   unlicensed persons in healthcare delivery rests with for examinations,
   and shaving and disinfecting treatment the physician. sites. (The
   regulations governing medical The classification of medical assistant
   is assistants can be found in the California defined under the
   provisions of the Code of Regulations at sections 1366- "An unlicensed
   Medical Practice Act (Business and 1366.4 of Title 16, Division 13.)
   Medical Professions Code sections 2069-2071). assistants who have
   completed the person may not The law defines a "medical assistant" as a
   minimum training prescribed by diagnose or treat person who may be
   unlicensed who regulation may draw blood. performs basic
   administrative, clerical, or perform any Medical assistants are not
   allowed to and technical supportive services under perform such
   invasive procedures as: task that is the supervision of a licensed
   physician or * placing the needle or starting and podiatrist. invasive
   or disconnecting the infusion tube of Under the law, "technical
   supportive requires an IV. services" are deemed simple, routine *
   assessment ." administering medications or medical tasks and procedures
   that may be injections into the IV line. safely performed by a medical
   assistant who has limited training and who * charting the pupillary
   responses. functions under the supervision of a licensed physician or *
   inserting a urine catheter. podiatrist. "Supervision" is defined to
   require the licensed physician or podiatrist to be physically present
   in the * independently performing telephone triage. treatment facility
   during the performance of those * injecting collagen. procedures. *
   using lasers to remove hair, wrinkles, scars, moles or Prior to
   performing technical supportive services, a medical other blemishes.
   assistant shall receive training by a licensed physician and * surgeon
   or podiatrist or instructor in an approved school administering
   chemotherapy. program to assure the medical assistant's competence in
   Medical assistants may not interpret the results of skin tests,
   performing a service at the appropriate standard of care. although they
   may measure and describe the test reaction and make a record in the
   patient chart. A medical assistant, who has completed the minimum
   training prescribed by regulation, may administer In summary, medical
   assistants are not licensed, and it is not medication by intradermal,
   subcutaneous, or intramuscular legal to use them to replace highly
   trained, licensed injections, perform skin tests, and other technical
   supportive professionals. The medical assistant is present to assist
   and services upon the specific authorization and supervision of a
   perform support services in the physician's office. licensed physician
   and surgeon or podiatrist. Those duties must be appropriate with the
   medical "Specific authorization" means a specific written order
   assistant's required training, which cannot be compared prepared by the
   supervising physician or podiatrist with licensed nurses or other
   health professionals who meet authorizing the procedures to be
   performed on a patient, rigorous educational and examination
   requirements. which shall be placed in the patient's medical record; or
   a Medical Board of California ACTION REPORT October 2001 Page 3 Law
   Expands Scope of Optometric Practice and Supervision of Optometric
   Assistants On January 1, 2001, a new law (SB 929, Polanco, Chapter
   review the optometrist's proposed treatment plan for the 676, Statutes
   of 2000) expanded the scope of practice for patient, comment on it
   where appropriate, and examine the optometrists by specifying
   additional diseases and patient in question before the optometrist may
   commence conditions that optometrists may treat (in particular, certain
   treatment of the patient. types of glaucoma) with specified
   medications, and it also Where the law requires an optometrist to
   consult with an specified the extent of physician involvement that is
   ophthalmologist, the optometrist is required to maintain a required
   under various circumstances. Further, the law written record in the
   patient's file and furnish a copy upon amends section 2544 of the
   Business and Professions Code, request by the consulting
   ophthalmologist, and that all which sets forth additional duties that
   an assistant (rather collaborations, consultations, and referrals be
   made to an than a technician) may perform under the direct
   ophthalmologist located geographically appropriate to the
   responsibility and supervision of an ophthalmologist or patient. Once
   an ophthalmologist accepts the responsibility optometrist. (Read SB 929
   at: www.medbd.ca.gov, under to review an optometrist's case, a
   relationship has been What's New.) established with that patient and
   the ophthalmologist must The Medical Board believes that it is
   important to continue to remain involved throughout the patient's
   communicate to physicians, especially ophthalmologists, treatment. In
   addition, because the ophthalmologist has information concerning these
   changes in optometric scope responsibility for the patient, the
   ophthalmologist should of practice and the obligations imposed on
   physicians in maintain a file on all correspondence, records and
   connection therewith. Consultation and referral conversations with the
   optometrist regarding the patient. requirements from optometrists to
   ophthalmologists are also Ophthalmologists should note that it is the
   position of both required within specified time frames for use of oral
   the Medical Board and the Board of Optometry that medications for the
   following conditions: preceptal multiple optometrists cannot receive
   credit for the same cellulitis, blepheritis, traumatic iritis,
   peripheral keratitis patient. In addition, ophthalmologists need to
   recognize and herpes simplex. that in the role of collaborating with
   optometrists in the treatment of patients, the ophthalmologist must
   ensure the Optometric Diagnosis optometrist's care of the patient is
   both continuous and and Treatment Authority comprehensive. All
   physicians should be aware of the The law changes a number of the
   identified conditions that limitations on the scope of practice of
   optometrists and be optometrists may diagnose and treat, and requires
   vigilant in protecting patients who are the subject of consultation or
   referral to an ophthalmologist under certain collaboration with an
   optometrist. circumstances. It makes changes to the list of topical
   pharmaceutical agents that may be used for these purposes, Other Areas
   of Collaboration and requires optometrists to again refer or consult
   with SB 929 allows optometrists to perform the procedures
   ophthalmologists under certain circumstances. For example, lacrimal
   dilation and irrigation, but only for patients over if a patient with a
   central corneal ulcer fails to improve the age of 12, and then only
   after obtaining a certificate within 24 hours of the initiation of
   treatment by an based upon proof that the optometrist performed 10 such
   optometrist, consultation is now required by law. procedures under the
   preceptorship of an ophthalmologist. Treatment of Glaucoma The law
   prohibits optometrists from using topical steroids or any other
   medication for the treatment of post-surgical SB 929 imposes
   obligations on ophthalmologists that must inflammation. This will limit
   the collaboration between an be met in order for optometrists to treat
   glaucoma. The optometrist and an ophthalmologist after surgery, as an
   legislation provides for certification of optometrists to treat
   optometrist will not be able to treat with medication primary open
   angle glaucoma in patients over the age of 18, inflammation that
   results from the surgery. if certain requirements are met. The
   legislation requires that an optometrist collaborate directly with an
   ophthalmologist Ophthalmologic and Optometric Assistants for the
   treatment of 50 patients not previously diagnosed with glaucoma, each
   for a period of two years, before the An assistant in the office of a
   physician and surgeon or optometrist may independently treat patients
   with primary optometrist, acting under the licensee's direct
   responsibility open angle glaucoma. With respect to each of these 50
   and supervision, may fit prescription lenses. Under the patients, the
   collaborating ophthalmologist must receive and (Continued on page 5)
   Medical Board of California ACTION REPORT Page 4 October 2001 Do You
   Require an Establishment License If an Esthetician is Practicing at
   Your Medical Facility? If you are considering hiring an esthetician at
   your medical In California, electrology services may be legally
   facility, please contact the Bureau of Barbering and performed only by
   state-licensed electrologists in state- Cosmetology for information on
   applying for an licensed salons or barbershops. Cosmetologists and
   establishment license. Per Business and Professions Code estheticians
   may not remove unwanted body/facial hair by section 7347, an
   establishment license is required for any electrolysis, but they may
   remove superfluous hair from premises where any activity licensed under
   the Bureau of clients by several other means. Barbering and Cosmetology
   is practiced. Chemical exfoliation services may be legally performed
   Currently, under California law, only licensed physician only by
   state-licensed cosmetologists and estheticians in assistants and
   registered nurses may operate lasers or other state-licensed salons and
   barbershops, or by physicians in medical devices, including intense
   pulse light devices under medical offices. (See, Consumers Guide to
   Barbering & a physician's supervision for hair removal or any other
   Cosmetology Service, www.dca.ca.gov/barber/formspubs, purpose. page 16,
   and California Code of Regulations, Medical assistants or any other
   unlicensed staff in a www.dca.ca.gov/barber/laws/art12.htm#991,
   sections 991 physician's office may not legally treat patients with
   these and 992.) kinds of devices. In addition, electrologists,
   estheticians, or For additional information on obtaining an
   establishment cosmetologists may not operate lasers or intense pulse
   light license, please contact the Bureau of Barbering and devices under
   the scope of their licenses. Cosmetology at (800) 952-5210 or (916)
   327-6250. Doctor's Certification of Disability Web Site Update
   Regarding Required to Obtain Gynecologic Cancer Materials Disabled
   Person Parking Placard The July 2001 Action Report contained an article
   An individual interested in obtaining a Disabled Person titled,
   "Gynecologic Cancer Materials Now (DP) Parking Placard must complete
   and sign an Available in Four Languages. Request Your Free Application
   for Disabled Person Parking Placard (REG Packet of Materials." 195
   form) and have a doctor sign the disability certification. These
   materials can now be ordered through the Office of Women's Health at
   the Department of Qualifying conditions include: heart or circulatory
   Health Services: Please go to www.dhs.ca.gov/ disease, lung disease, a
   diagnosed disease or disorder director/owh to request these materials.
   which significantly limits the use of lower extremities, certain
   specific documented visual problems, loss, or permanent loss of the use
   of one or both legs or both hands. Optometric Practice (continued from
   page 4) A doctor's certification is not required for permanent loss
   direct responsibility and supervision of the ophthalmologist of a lower
   extremity or both hands, if the individual or optometrist, an assistant
   also may prepare patients for appears in person at a DMV office.
   examination; collect preliminary patient data, including A person is
   eligible for a temporary parking placard if he taking a patient
   history; perform simple noninvasive testing or she is temporarily
   disabled for six months or less. The of visual acuity, pupils and
   ocular motility; perform temporary placard is valid for 180 days or
   less from the automated visual field testing; perform ophthalmic date
   DMV issues it or the date noted by a doctor on the photography and
   digital imaging; perform tonometry; application, whichever is less.
   perform lensometry; perform nonsubjective auto refraction A person who
   is not a California resident, but who plans in connection with
   subjective refraction procedures to travel here and is disabled or a
   disabled veteran, can performed by an ophthalmologist or optometrist;
   administer obtain a temporary placard good for not more than 90
   cycloplegiacs, mydriatics, and topical anesthetics that are days from
   the date of issuance or the date noted by the not controlled
   substances, for ophthalmic purposes; perform doctor on the application
   form. pachymetry, keratometry, A scans, B scans, and electrodiagnostic
   testing. Medical Board of California ACTION REPORT October 2001 Page 5
   An Update on the Epidemiology of Lyme Disease in California The Federal
   Drug Administration's approval of the first human Lyme disease (LD)
   vaccine (LYMErixTM, Counties with Borrelia GlaxoSmithKline
   Pharmaceuticals) in 1998 focused burgdorferi identified national
   attention anew on LD, from both physicians and from ticks the public.
   Medical strategies for the prevention and County with Borrelia
   diagnosis of LD depend chiefly on the patient's likelihood spp.
   identified from ticks of exposure to Borrelia burgdorferi , the
   bacterial agent that Counties with Ixodes causes LD. The purpose of
   this update is to provide current pacificus records only epidemiologic
   information on LD, particularly as it pertains to California. County
   with no records of Ixodes pacificus Lyme disease was first described in
   1977 as a cluster of oligoarticular arthritis in children and adults
   near Lyme, Connecticut. Investigations eventually identified the
   spirochetal agent, Borrelia burgdorferi, and the tick vector, Ixodes
   scapularis (the "deer tick"), of this disease. The Centers for Disease
   Figure 1: Distribution of infection with Borrelia spp. in Control and
   Prevention the western black-legged tick ( Ixodes pacificus ). Borrelia
   (CDC) made LD a burgdorferi is the agent that causes Lyme disease.
   nationally notifiable Borrelia spp. refers to bacterial isolates
   closely related, condition in 1982. Over but not identical, to Borrelia
   burgdorferi . (Source of 125,000 cases have since data: Mosquito and
   Vector Control Agencies of been reported nationwide, California,
   University of California, Berkeley, Vector- making LD the most Borne
   Disease Section, California Department of Health frequently reported
   vector- Services) borne disease. Western black-legged tick, shown
   actual size The first recognized human neuropathies often exhibited as
   a unilateral facial palsy, or at left. case in California occurred
   numbness and pain in arms and legs. in 1978 in a hiker from Source:
   California If left untreated or improperly treated, late LD can occur
   Sonoma County. Passive Department of Health weeks, months, or years
   after infection. Chronic arthritis, surveillance for LD cases Services
   manifested as recurrent swelling of one or a few joints, is began at
   the California the most common feature of late LD. Chronic muscle pain
   Department of Health and encephalopathies, such as memory loss and
   difficulty in Services (CDHS) in 1989; as of 2000, over 1,700 cases
   concentrating, may also be present. have been reported from 52 of 58
   counties. Diagnosis is based primarily on clinical presentation and
   Early symptoms of LD occur 3 to 30 days after the bite of supportive
   history, such as exposure to ticks or an infected tick. Symptoms of
   early Lyme disease can environments where ticks occur. include erythema
   migrans (EM), described as a red, blotchy, expanding rash, accompanied
   by fever, headache, neckache, The enzyme immunoassay (ELISA) followed
   by a muscle and joint pain. The EM is not always present or may
   confirmatory western blot are serologic tests useful to go undetected
   by a patient or physician if it occurs in a support the clinical
   diagnosis. However, it should be noted location difficult to see (e.g.,
   scalp) or if the patient has dark that false negative results,
   particularly early in the disease skin. Weeks to months after the bite
   of an infected tick, the (< 4-6 weeks post infection), as well as false
   positive spirochetes disseminate, resulting in cardiac conduction
   results, occur. defects (atrio-ventricular block) and cranial and
   peripheral (Continued on page 7) HEALTH NEWS Medical Board of
   California ACTION REPORT Page 6 October 2001 Lyme Disease (continued
   from page 6) TICK AVOIDANCE TIPS Treatment with antibiotics during the
   early symptoms can cure the infection and can prevent progression to
   late LD. Tick avoidance remains the best line of defense Several
   reviews have been published that discuss diagnosis and treatment of
   this complex disease (1-4). against Lyme disease and other tick-borne
   diseases that occur in California, including Rocky The tick that
   transmits B. burgdorferi to humans in Mountain spotted fever,
   ehrlichiosis, babesiosis, California is the western black-legged tick,
   Ixodes pacificus. and tick paralysis. Of the tick's three life
   stages-larva, nymph and adult- only nymphs and adults can transmit LD
   bacteria to People who live or recreate in areas where ticks humans.
   However, nymphs transmit B. burgdorferi to occur should be advised to:
   humans more frequently than do adult ticks because nymphs * Wear long
   pants and long-sleeved shirts. Tuck are small (~ 1 mm) and thus
   difficult to see. Also, in many pant legs into boots or socks, and tuck
   shirts parts of California, a higher percentage of nymphs than into
   pants. adults carries B. burgdorferi. * Wear light-colored clothing so
   ticks can be For example, in Mendocino County, one of the few easily
   seen. Californian counties where long-term studies on Lyme disease have
   been performed, the nymphal infection rate * Use a repellent registered
   for use against ticks. was 41.3% (5) while the adult tick infection
   rate in that Always follow directions on the container and county was
   4% (6). In general, nymphs are active from be extra careful when
   applying to children. March through July whereas adult ticks are most
   active * Stay in the middle of the trail: avoid trail from November
   through March. However, if conditions are margins, brush and grassy
   areas when in tick favorable, ticks may be active at any time of the
   year. Ixodes country. pacificus have been collected from 55 of 58
   California counties. The B. burgdorferi bacterium has been identified *
   Inspect yourself frequently for ticks while in tick from I. pacificus
   ticks in 41 California counties (figure 1). habitat. Once out of tick
   habitat, thoroughly check your entire body for ticks. Parents should
   Californians' contact with B. burgdorferi-infected ticks will examine
   their children, especially on the scalp increase as residential
   communities expand into areas where and hairline, after activities in
   tick-infested there was once only wildlife. Recreational activities in
   areas. natural areas will similarly increase, placing people in contact
   with ticks. Both physicians and the public need to * Remove ticks
   promptly to decrease the risk of be aware of the attendant risks of
   Lyme and other tick-borne spirochete transmission. Ticks must be
   diseases. attached and feeding for at least 24 hours before they are
   capable of transmitting the The LYMErixTM vaccine (GlaxoSmithKline
   Borrelia organism. Pharmaceuticals) is a recently approved tool for LD
   prevention. Based on current information on vaccine safety and
   efficacy, and the known epidemiology of LD in (3) Nadelman RB,
   Nowakowski J, Fish D et al. Prophylaxis California, CDHS does not
   recommend the LD vaccine for with single-dose doxycycline for the
   prevention of routine use anywhere in California. Lyme disease after an
   Ixodes scapularis tick bite. N For more information on Lyme disease in
   California and to Engl J Med 2001 July; 345(2):79-84. obtain a copy of
   the Guidelines for Lyme Disease Vaccine (4) Klempner MS, Hu LT, Evans J
   et al. Two controlled Use in California for Health Care Providers,
   please visit the trials of antibiotic treatment in patients with
   persistent California Department of Health Services, Division of
   symptoms and a history of Lyme disease. N Engl J Med Communicable
   Disease Control Web site: www.dhs.ca.gov/ 2001 July; 345(2):85-92.
   ps/dcdc/html/disbindex.htm, or contact the CDHS Vector- (5)
   Tälleklint-Eisen L, Lane RS. Variation in the density of Borne Disease
   Section at (916) 324-3738. questing Ixodes pacificus (Acari:Ixodidae)
   nymphs infected with Borrelia burgdorferi at different spatial
   Reference List scales in California. Journal of Parasitology 1999; (1)
   Rahn DW, Evans J. Lyme Disease. 1 ed. Philadelphia, 85(5):824-31. PA:
   American College of Physicians, 1998. (6) Clover JR, Lane RS. Evidence
   implicating nymphal (2) Steere AC. Lyme disease. N Engl J Med 2001
   July; Ixodes pacificus (Acari: ixodidae) in the epidemiology
   345(2):115-25. of Lyme disease in California. American Journal of
   Tropical Medicine and Hygiene 1995; 53(3):237-40. HEALTH NEWS Medical
   Board of California ACTION REPORT October 2001 Page 7 Two New Tools for
   Chlamydia Management By George W. Rutherford, M.D., University of
   California, San Francisco, Co-Chair, California Chlamydia Action
   Coalition, and Gail Bolan, M.D., Chief, Sexually Transmitted Disease
   (STD) Control Branch, California Department of Health Services,
   Co-Chair, California Chlamydia Action Coalition New chlamydia clinical
   practice guidelines and guidance organizations. Recently NCQA included
   Chlamydia for patient-delivered partner therapy for chlamydia are now
   Screening in Women as a HEDIS clinical performance available.
   measure.** The California Chlamydia Action Coalition, in partnership
   The clinical practice guideline recommends the following: with
   PricewaterhouseCoopers and the California * Screen all sexually active
   women 15 through 25 HealthCare Foundation, has released a new clinical
   practice years old annually for chlamydia, consistent with guideline on
   screening for chlamydia infection. In addition, Centers for Disease
   Control and Prevention and the California Department of Health Services
   has just U.S. Preventive Services Task Force guidelines, as released a
   new set of implementation guidelines for patient- well as the National
   Committee on Quality delivered partner therapy for patients with
   chlamydia. These Assurance's Health Plan and Employer Data new tools
   are the latest in a broad series of initiatives the Information Set
   (HEDIS) performance Coalition and the Department of Health Services
   have measurement expectations. undertaken to control chlamydia in
   California. * Use nucleic acid amplification technology tests for
   Chlamydia trachomatis is the most common communicable screening [(e.g.,
   Ligase Chain Reaction (LCR), disease reported in California with an
   estimated 600,000 Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR), Strand new
   infections each year. The majority of these infections Displacement
   Amplification (SDA), and are asymptomatic and go undetected. Untreated
   chlamydia Transcription Mediated Amplification (TMA)]. infection can
   lead to pelvic inflammatory disease (PID), These tests have high
   sensitivity and specificity, are tubal infertility, ectopic pregnancy
   and chronic pelvic pain. suitable for a screening program, and can be
   An estimated nine out of 10 chlamydia infections in performed using
   urine specimens, allowing California are currently undetected and
   untreated because chlamydia screening even if a pelvic or genital
   patients have no symptoms nor reasons to seek care and exam is not
   being done. providers do not screen. This is especially true for women.
   It is estimated that 75-80% of infected women have no * Treat infected
   patients with either Azithromycin symptoms, and as a result may not be
   diagnosed and treated 1gm po as a one-time dose or doxycycline 100 mg
   until complications develop. po bid for seven days. Dispense treatment
   on site if possible. Instruct patients to abstain from sexual Chlamydia
   Clinical Practice Guidelines intercourse for seven days after single
   dose therapy or until completion of a seven-day regimen and Early
   identification through annual screening and until seven days after all
   of their partners are subsequent treatment can significantly reduce the
   medical treated. short and long-term complications in women and have
   been shown to be cost-effective. A 1996 randomized controlled *
   Evaluate, test and treat all sexual partners within trial of chlamydia
   screening and treatment in Group Health the last two months if
   possible. See below for more of Puget Sound demonstrated a 56%
   reduction in the information on prescribing without an examination.
   incidence of PID in the 12 months following this * Report infected
   patients to the local health intervention.* department where the
   patient resides. Studies from a variety of practice settings in
   California, * Test infected patients for other sexually transmitted
   including HMOs, have consistently demonstrated high diseases including
   syphilis, gonorrhea and HIV. prevalence of chlamydia (5%-15%) in
   younger women. For example, in California in 1999, approximately 6% of
   girls * Because chlamydia reinfection is common, several 15-19 years of
   age and 4% of women 20-24 tested in a large experts recommend
   rescreening infected patients northern California HMO were infected.
   Screening younger 10 weeks to six months after treatment. women for
   chlamydia is recommended by the Centers for The clinical practice
   guidelines were mailed to managed Disease Control and Prevention (CDC),
   the U.S. Preventive care organizations (both commercial and Medi-Cal),
   Services Task Force and a variety of professional (Continued on page 9)
   HEALTH NEWS Medical Board of California ACTION REPORT Page 8 October
   2001 also acceptable to include the name of the patient and Chlamydia
   Management partner(s) on one prescription. In the event the patient
   will (continued from page 8) not or cannot name the partner(s), the
   provider may write a medical groups and independent practice
   associations, prescription for the patient "and partner(s) as
   appropriate," professional societies, academic medical centers and with
   the corresponding number of doses. statewide health care organizations
   and associations in October 2001. A series of supporting and reference
   Most appropriate partners: Males who are uninsured or materials will be
   made available in a quality improvement unlikely to seek medical
   services. "toolbox" later this fall. Please visit the California
   Medication: The law does not specify, but the Chlamydia Action
   Coalition Web site at: www.ucsf.edu/ recommended prescription is for
   Azithromycin (Zithromax) castd/chlamydia_coalition.html for copies of
   the clinical 1 gram (250 mg tablets x 4) orally once. practice
   guideline and a variety of other materials related to Number of doses
   are limited to the number of known sex chlamydia and sexually
   transmitted diseases in general and partners in past 60 days. later
   this year for the "toolbox". Education materials must accompany
   medication. These New Guidance for Treating Partners materials will be
   available at www.ucsf.edu/castd. of Chlamydia Patients Patient
   counseling: Providers should recommend The risk of adverse reproductive
   health complications of abstinence until seven days after treatment and
   until seven chlamydia infection increases significantly with repeat
   days after partners have been treated. infections, which occur in
   15-30% of young women within Evaluation: Based on local data, the state
   of California six months. To prevent repeat infections, partners must
   be recommends providers should re-test patients for chlamydia provided
   timely and appropriate antibiotic treatment. three to four months after
   treatment. However, because infected partners, and indeed most Adverse
   reactions: The law does not protect the provider patients, are
   generally asymptomatic, they may be unlikely from liability, as is the
   case for any medical treatment. to seek medical treatment. Even when
   providers counsel Providers should report any adverse reactions by
   calling patients about the need for partner treatment, some partners
   their local STD controller or (866) 556-3730 (toll-free). have limited
   or no access to medical care or choose not to seek care. For complete
   guidelines, information regarding materials for patients and their
   partners, the text of revisions to the To address this problem, the
   California Department of Health and Safety Code, and telephone numbers
   for local Health Services has developed the first-ever comprehensive
   health departments for information on local chlamydia set of guidelines
   for physicians to prescribe and nurse- efforts, please visit the
   California Chlamydia Action practitioners, physician assistants and
   certified nurse- Coalition's Web site at www.ucsf.edu/castd or call the
   midwives to dispense antibiotic therapy for the sex partners California
   Department of Health Services' STD Control of individuals infected with
   genital Chlamydia trachomatis, Branch at (510) 540-2657. even if they
   have not been able to perform an exam of the patient's partner(s).
   California is the first state to legalize this strategy (Health and
   Safety Code Section 120582). The *Scholes D, Stergachis A, Heidrich FE,
   Andrilla H. Holmes guidance provides information on the most
   appropriate KK. Prevention of pelvic inflammatory disease by screening
   patients, medication, prescribing and counseling for cervical
   chlamydial infection. N Engl J Med 1996; procedures. The following
   summarizes the most important 334:1362-6. points: **HEDIS Chlamydia
   screening measure definition: "The First-choice strategy: Providers are
   still required to percentage of women age 16 through 26 years who were
   attempt to bring partners in for evaluation, testing and identified as
   sexually active, who were continuously treatment. enrolled during
   measurement [i.e., prior] year, and who had Most appropriate patients:
   Data support the treatment of at least one test for chlamydia during
   the measurement females with male partners***. Other patients may also
   be year." treated under the law. ***Schillinger J, Kissinger P, Berman
   S, Marin D, Calvet H. Diagnosis: Laboratory-confirmed genital chlamydia
   A Randomized Trial of Patient-Delivered Therapy to infection without
   co-infection with gonorrhea or other Prevent Recurrent Chlamydial
   Infection Among Adolescent complications. and Young Women. National STD
   Prevention Conference. Milwaukee, 2000. Prescribing: Ideally, providers
   should give a separate prescription for the patient and the patient's
   partner(s). It is HEALTH NEWS Medical Board of California ACTION REPORT
   October 2001 Page 9 Adult Immunization for Influenza and Pneumococcal
   Disease 2000 Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) Data
   and the Role California Physicians Can Play in Improving Adult
   Immunizations By Howard Backer, M.D., M.P.H., Nisha Gandhi, M.P.H. and
   Amanda Roth, M.P.H., M.S.W. Immunization Branch, California Department
   of Health Services Influenza virus and pneumococcal bacteria cause two
   of the is also recommended for adults under the age of 65 with most
   common and deadly infections among individuals ages chronic diseases
   who are at increased risk for serious illness 65 years and older.
   Influenza epidemics have resulted in an or death from these infections,
   but vaccination rates among average of more than 48,000
   hospitalizations and 18,000 these groups are much lower. See the
   recommendations of deaths annually among older persons in the United
   States. the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP)
   Invasive pneumococcal disease caused nearly 20,000 for additional
   high-risk groups. hospitalizations and 3,400 deaths among persons 65
   years When asked where they got their flu shots, BRFSS of age and older
   in 1998. Simple immunizations could have respondents most frequently
   reported receiving them in a prevented much of the morbidity and
   mortality associated doctor's office (68.6%). Hospital or emergency
   with these infections. departments (8.2%) and senior/community centers
   (7.7%) The BRFSS is the largest telephone survey in the United were the
   second and third most common responses, States, designed by the Centers
   for Disease Control (CDC) respectively. Furthermore, research has shown
   that the most to provide national and state-by-state estimates of
   health important factor predicting up-to-date immunization for risk
   behaviors among U.S. adult populations. The 2000 adults is the number
   of visits to their physician and the California BRFSS included
   questions about influenza and recommendation of their physician to
   obtain the pneumococcal immunizations that provide a current profile
   immunizations. These factors are even more important than of
   immunization rates and practices among Californians patient race or
   ethnicity, education, poverty, and insurance ages 65 years and older.
   status. This emphasizes the importance of office-based Of the
   self-reports by California respondents aged 65 and strategies to assure
   immunization of adult patient older, 69.6% reported having received a
   flu shot in the past populations, similar to those that pediatric and
   family 12 months, and 60.5% reported having had a pneumococcal
   practitioners have used to vaccinate children. shot. Note: The
   following populations that are National and State health policy
   supports improved recommended to get both influenza and pneumococcal
   immunization of senior adults. Both influenza and vaccine BUT are not
   directly represented in the survey are: pneumococcal vaccines for
   seniors age 65 and older are nursing home and long-term care facility
   residents and covered by Medicare Part B, so there should be no
   financial those high-risk individuals with chronic illness or weakened
   barrier for vaccine. In addition, the California Department immune
   systems (e.g., heart and lung disease, diabetes). of Health Services
   (DHS) has been providing influenza These immunization coverage levels
   for both infections are vaccines since 1973 and pneumococcal vaccines
   since 1989 comparable to the nationwide estimates. While California's
   free of charge to public health departments for seniors and coverage
   levels for both immunizations have increased others at high risk.
   significantly since 1990, the rate of gain must increase if we
   Influenza and pneumococcal immunization rates are now are to meet the
   public health National Healthy People goal included as Health Plan
   Employer Data and Information Set of 90% immunization in 2010. (HEDIS)
   measures, generating even more incentives for Due to small numbers of
   individuals ages 65 years and older health plans and providers to
   immunize seniors. Pneumonia sampled in the 2000 BRFSS, racial and/or
   ethnic estimates prevention has been a recent focus of Medicare Quality
   cannot be made for flu and pneumococcal immunizations. Review
   Organizations (PROs). However, other published national data indicate
   that One of the largest remaining barriers is practice patterns.
   African-Americans and Hispanic patients have lower rates Practitioners
   consistently overestimate the number of of immunization with these
   vaccines than whites do. adequately vaccinated patients in their
   practice because they Immunization against influenza and pneumococcal
   infection (Continued on page 11) HEALTH NEWS Medical Board of
   California ACTION REPORT Page 10 October 2001 Adult Immunization
   (continued from page 10) are only aware of the patients they have seen
   recently in Finally, physicians need to communicate the benefits and
   the office. The following interventions have been proven safety of
   these vaccines to their patients. Surprisingly, one effective to
   increase immunization coverage: of the main reasons that seniors do not
   receive these * Busy practitioners need to incorporate reminder-
   vaccines is their fear of side effects. The current inactivated recall
   systems to assure not only that they influenza vaccine is extremely
   safe causing only one to two vaccinate patients who come into the
   office during days of local soreness, if anything. Fever and other
   systemic influenza vaccination season, but also provide a symptoms most
   often occur in persons who have had no reminder to all of the patients
   in their practice who prior exposure to the influenza virus vaccine
   (e.g., young should be immunized. children). Many seniors are concerned
   that the vaccine causes a flu illness; they do not understand that
   coincidental * When giving influenza, also give pneumococcal
   respiratory disease can occur after vaccination. vaccine, if needed.
   Since records are often lacking, Investigations to date indicate no
   substantial increase in rely on patient history of prior immunizations
   and Guillain-Barré syndrome associated with influenza vaccines if in
   doubt, vaccinate. since the 1976 swine influenza vaccine. * Document
   vaccine delivery in the chart and for the For assistance in improving
   immunization rates in your patient. Charts should be organized with a
   practice, patient educational materials, and practice tools, preventive
   service record in the front that is easily contact your chief of
   quality assurance, regional Medicare reviewed and updated. (One such
   record is PRO, or the immunization coordinator in your county health
   available from www.ahrq.gov/ppip/ department. For more information
   about the California pptools.htm#office.) Immunization Program, call
   (510) 540-2065. Additional * Practitioners should work with healthcare
   facilities resources as well as professional and patient information on
   in their community to develop pre-printed orders the influenza and
   pneumococcal vaccines can be obtained or standardized nursing
   procedures to assure from: immunization of all eligible adults, prior
   to National Immunization Program: discharge from an acute-care facility
   and on www.cdc.gov/nip admission to a long-term care facility (and a
   mechanism to notify the primary practitioner to Immunization Action
   Coalition: update their records). www.immunize.org 100% Immunization
   Campaign: www.immunizeseniors.org It Only Takes a Little Energy to Save
   a Lot! For energy saving tips, call toll-free: 1-866-YOUR-PWR
   (1-866-968-7797) or point your Web browser to: www.flexyourpower.ca.gov
   HEALTH NEWS Medical Board of California ACTION REPORT October 2001 Page
   11 News From the U.S. Food and Drug Administration Good Clinical
   Practice lack of knowledge and poor public education among in
   FDA-Regulated Clinical Trials patients, lack of restrictions on
   antibiotic use in developing countries and overuse and misuse in
   agriculture. Research A new "subsite" on the FDA Web site has been
   launched to has shown that antibiotics are given to patients more often
   address Good Clinical Practice in FDA-Regulated Clinical than
   evidence-based guidelines recommend. Trials. The address is
   www.fda.gov/oc/gcp/default.htm. It will provide information about FDA
   oversight of clinical Whether the problems are driven by unawareness,
   trials, including guidances, information sheets, regulations,
   misunderstanding, or marketing practices, behaviors must educational
   materials, and FDA contacts. It will also change before treatable
   diseases once again become provide information about FDA's new Good
   Clinical untreatable . Better surveillance for resistance is needed, as
   Practice Staff in the Office of Science Coordination and is intensive
   education of health professionals and the public Communication (OSCC).
   regarding optimum usage of antimicrobials. However, even if all
   antibiotic use were indeed to become Influenza Virus Vaccine 2001-2002
   appropriate, resistance would not disappear. Thus, both Availability of
   the influenza vaccine supply this season may continuing research and
   the development of new and continue to be a concern. The trivalent
   influenza vaccine innovative drugs, vaccines and improved diagnostics
   for prepared for the 2001-2002 season will include A/Moscow/ infectious
   diseases will continue to be urgently needed. 10/99-like (H3N2), A/New
   Caledonia/20/99-like (H1N1), The Centers for Disease Control and
   Prevention (CDC), the and B/Sichuan/379/99-like antigens. For the
   A/Moscow/10/ National Institutes of Health (NIH), and the Food and Drug
   99-like (H3N2) antigen, U.S. manufacturers will use the Administration
   (FDA) led a task force of 10 agencies and antigenically equivalent
   A/Panama/2007/99 (H3N2) virus. departments that created an action plan
   to combat For the B/Sichuan/379/99-like antigen, they will use one of
   antimicrobial resistance. the antigenically equivalent viruses
   B/Johannesburg/05/99, B/Victoria/504/2000, or B/Guangdong/120/2000.
   These This plan has four major components-surveillance, viruses will be
   used in manufacturing because of their prevention and control,
   research, and product development: growth properties and because they
   are representative of * Surveillance- CDC will work with state health
   currently circulating influenza A (H3N2) and B viruses. For departments
   to design and implement a plan that lot release information go to
   www.fda.gov/cber/flu/flu.htm. will define national, regional, state and
   local antimicrobial resistance surveillance Antibiotic Resistance: A
   Multi-Agency Action responsibilities so that these entities are Plan to
   Address the Growing Threat coordinated and use similar methodology.
   FDA, USDA and CDC plan to develop systems that can Antibiotic
   resistance is on the rise and becoming a major monitor patterns of
   antimicrobial drug use in public health threat. The continuing
   emergence of difficult- human medicine, in agriculture and in consumer
   to-treat or untreatable nosocomial pathogens threaten the products.
   lives of hospitalized individuals and those with chronic conditions. In
   fact, about 70 percent of bacteria that cause * Prevention and control-
   HHS and partners will infections in hospitals are resistant to at least
   one of the launch a national public education campaign to drugs most
   commonly used to treat them; some organisms reduce the overuse and
   misuse of antimicrobial are resistant to all approved antibiotics.
   drugs and to improve antibiotic use in healthcare systems. Clinical
   guidelines for health Common community acquired and food borne
   infections of professionals on how best to use antimicrobials will
   humans, including those due to pathogens, show trends be prepared. FDA
   is working to assess the human toward increasing resistance to standard
   available therapies. health impact of antimicrobials that may be used
   in Resistant organisms and their genes cross national and
   food-producing animals. CDC will identify regulatory boundaries
   involving foods, animals, and effective strategies to promote
   appropriate humans. The costs of treating antimicrobial resistant
   antimicrobial drug use and reduce infection rates in infections place a
   significant burden on society. clinical practice. The factors
   responsible for increasing antibiotic resistance include: misuse and
   overuse of antimicrobials in humans, (Continued on page 13 HEALTH NEWS
   Medical Board of California ACTION REPORT Page 12 October 2001 REMINDER
   New Standard of Care Regulations for Childhood Lead Poisoning Screening
   The California Department of Health Services has If the actions
   described in b) or c) above were not adopted regulations establishing a
   standard of care on carried out, the provider must do so as soon as he
   or evaluating and screening for childhood lead she becomes aware of the
   omission in a child poisoning as part of periodic health assessments
   between the ages of 12 months and six years. A during early childhood.
   blood lead test also must be ordered if a change in In summary, the
   regulations require: circumstances has put a child at risk for lead
   poisoning. a) Anticipatory guidance on lead hazards and the risk of
   lead poisoning, at each periodic The complete regulations can be found
   in the health assessment visit between six months California Code of
   Regulations Title 17, Division 1, and six years; Chapter 9, Sections
   37000-37100. The Medical Board's Action Report dated April 2000 also
   ran a b) A blood-lead test at 12 and 24 months for more detailed
   article titled, "New State Policy On children receiving services from a
   publicly Blood Lead Screening Can Help Providers Find More supported
   program for low-income children, Children With Lead Poisoning," which
   included a since they are at increased risk for lead "Practitioner
   Reference Card" for your use. You may poisoning; and obtain a copy of
   that Action Report by calling the c) A blood lead test at 12 and 24
   months for Medical Board at (916) 263-2389. children who do not receive
   services from a For questions about the standard of care, please
   publicly supported program but are found to contact Yan Chin, M.D.,
   M.P.H., (510) 622-4869 and be at risk because their caregiver answers
   for information about the State's Childhood Lead "yes" or "don't know"
   to the risk assessment Poisoning Prevention Program, Valerie Charlton,
   question: "Does your child live in, or spend a M.D., M.P.H., Chief,
   Childhood Lead Poisoning lot of time in, a place built before 1978 that
   Prevention Branch, (510) 622-4867. has peeling or chipped paint or that
   has been recently renovated?" News From the U.S. Food and Drug
   Administration (continued from page 12) * Research- NIH will take the
   lead to provide the * Product Development- HHS plans to research
   community with new information and create an Interagency Antimicrobial
   Product technologies, including genetic blueprints for Development
   Working Group that will help various microbes, to identify targets for
   to identify and publicize priority health desperately needed new
   diagnostics, treatments needs for new products that prevent and
   vaccines that could assist in preventing the resistance or treat
   resistant infections. emergence and spread of resistant pathogens. For
   more information go to: NIH plans to develop clinical studies to test
   new www.fda.gov/oc/opacom/hottopics/anti_resist.html antimicrobials and
   novel approaches to treating and preventing infections caused by
   resistant pathogens. NIH continues to facilitate new rapid diagnostic
   methods, their development and evaluation. HEALTH NEWS Medical Board of
   California ACTION REPORT October 2001 Page 13 Adverse Events Reporting
   System FDA's MedWatch is a Partnership Waiting to Happen The Internet
   is jammed with resources FDA action that results in for physicians, but
   perhaps none with recommendations for safer use of that such potential
   importance as the FDA's "The FDA wants to product." MedWatch Web site,
   which serves as a get any important Once a modified use strategy and
   gateway for medical product safety labeling change has been agreed upon
   information and provides a service that safety information out by the
   FDA and the manufacturer, sends out urgent safety alerts in the flash
   to the practitioners, MedWatch gets that information out to of an
   e-mail. Surprisingly, many physicians immediately in the form of
   professionals remain unaware of this free ideally at the point of
   MedWatch Alerts. "These alerts are service. "It's free, it's easy to
   subscribe, care, so they can use important information that the
   physician it's private and confidential," says it when they are would
   want to know now rather than Norman Marks, M.D., medical director
   waiting for the PDR to come out a year of the MedWatch program. "We
   don't making decisions later, or waiting for a letter to show up share
   names. All one has to do is go to with their patients." on their desk.
   We want all physicians to www.fda.gov/medwatch and there on the know
   that they can get that important homepage they will see the box that
   says Norman Marks, M.D. safety information now just by signing `join
   the MedWatch e-list'. Just click on up for our e-list," says Marks. it,
   fill in the blanks, and that's it." About 12,000 individual
   practitioners "The FDA wants to get any important safety information
   out have signed up for the MedWatch Alerts e-mail distribution to the
   practitioners, ideally at the point of care, so they can list. In
   addition, MedWatch has 190 partner organizations use it when they are
   making decisions with their patients," such as the Texas State Medical
   Society and the American says Marks. "In that way, we can facilitate
   the good work Academy of Family Physicians. The partners distribute the
   that physicians are doing every day. Our commitment at the MedWatch
   Alerts to their members by posting the FDA and our MedWatch program is
   to provide clinicians information on their Web sites, sending it out
   through their with timely safety information, ideally at the point of
   care. own distribution lists, or putting the information in their
   That's our part of the deal," says Marks. "Their part, we newsletters
   or bulletins. The MedWatch Alerts also are hope, would be to appreciate
   the value of the safety alerts posted on the MedWatch Web site. and
   recognize that their spontaneous voluntary reporting of serious adverse
   events is what lets us generate that medical Future plans : Marks says
   MedWatch is hoping to tailor the product safety information." Alerts
   soon so that each branch of medicine can choose which category of
   safety alert they would like to receive and "It's common knowledge,"
   says Marks, "that certain rare which they would not. Right now,
   everyone on the list gets but serious adverse events won't have been
   identified all Alerts. during the pre-marketing phase of drug and
   device development. While these pre-approval studies are Another
   innovation for the near future will be to put the evaluated rigorously,
   there may not have been a sufficient MedWatch information into a format
   compatible with the number of patients in the study, or perhaps the
   study did not hand-held computer devices. "My sense, from talking to
   cover a long enough time period to identify the rare harm or doctors
   and other professionals, is that the Palm Pilots and injury. At any
   rate, in the real world, new adverse events the hand-held devices are
   being used by residents, medical will emerge over time. Each adverse
   event or product students and even physicians," says Marks. "These
   little quality problem for a drug goes into a computerized devices are
   small enough, powerful enough and portable database called the Adverse
   Event Reporting System enough that they can be carried around in
   pockets, so we're (AERS). The post-marketing drug-risk assessment staff
   of working on arrangements to have our safety update safety evaluators
   and epidemiologists use that data to information available on their
   hand-held devices for access develop a more formal investigation, a
   science-based at the bedside, the operating suite and the office
   process where the outcome, whether it follows an exam room." evaluation
   of several weeks to several months, may lead to HEALTH NEWS Medical
   Board of California ACTION REPORT Page 14 October 2001 Medical
   Consultant Positions (Enforcement) and (Advisory) Available at Medical
   Board of California Final Filing Date: November 30, 2001 The Medical
   Board of California is currently examining Medical Consultant
   (Advisory) for the position of Medical Consultant (Enforcement)
   Knowledge of: Principles and practices of general and (Advisory),
   Medical Board of California. medicine and surgery; current developments
   in the field Permanent Intermittent positions exist statewide with of
   general medicine and surgery; medical research the Department of
   Consumer Affairs, Medical Board of methods and techniques; critical
   medical issues and California. Salary Range $54.42 - $57.60 Hourly.
   trends in practice, education, and emerging medical Only those who meet
   the following requirements will be specialties. admitted to the
   examination for this classification: Ability to: Plan, organize and
   conduct special studies Possession of a current unrestricted license
   for the and surveys, consult on and interpret results of surveys
   practice of medicine in California; possession of a valid and studies;
   analyze problems and/or issues and make medical specialty certificate
   issued by the American recommendations; prepare written and oral
   reports which Board of Medical Specialties; and, five years of are
   clear, concise, and objective; communicate experience within the last
   seven years in the practice of effectively with administrative and
   technical staff, peers, medicine, excluding internship and postgraduate
   training Board members, and applicants with regard to areas of (or five
   years of experience performing research or responsibility. working in
   fields related to medical issues, if applying for an Advisory
   position). If you have Internet access, the Examination Bulletin and
   Application can be found at the Department of Consumer Affairs' Web
   site at www.dca.ca.gov. Click on Jobs at Medical Consultant
   (Enforcement) DCA, and scroll down to Open Examinations. Knowledge of:
   Medicine and surgery, including recent developments and practices;
   hospital organization, If you do not have Internet access, to request
   an procedures, and record keeping; provisions of the Examination
   Bulletin and Application send a postcard Business and Professions Code
   relating to the practice of or e-mail by November 16, 2001 to: medicine
   and surgery and the laws, rules and regulations Department of Consumer
   Affairs of the Medical Board of California relating to medical
   Attention: Joanne Wight, Selection Services practice; methods of
   diagnosis and treating medical 400 R Street, Suite 2000 disorders;
   pathology and interpretation of autopsy Sacramento, CA 95814 findings;
   medical specialties. e-mail: Joanne_Wight@dca.ca.gov Ability to:
   Conduct effective interviews; exercise sound medical judgment in
   reviewing conflicting medical Please provide the following information:
   reports and preparing opinions; analyze problems and take effective
   action; perform administrative tasks; Name, address, phone/fax number,
   and medical license dictate correspondence and prepare reports; number.
   If you need additional information, please call communicate effectively
   both orally and in writing. Joanne Wight at (916) 324-4395. The final
   filing date to submit the Examination Application is November 30, 2001.
   Medical Board of California ACTION REPORT October 2001 Page 15 AB 2693
   (Migden, Chapter 789, Statutes of 1998, Health Effective Pain
   Management & Safety Code section 11159.2) Prescriptions for (continued
   from page 1) Schedule II controlled substances used by terminally ill
   Medical Board that they have engaged in illegal patients are exempt
   from the use of a triplicate form. overprescribing. In addition to
   their republication here, Prescriptions falling under this exemption
   must contain the guidelines are on the Board's Web site at the phrase
   "11159.2 exemption." www.medbd.ca.gov. SB 1140 (Committee on Health and
   Human Services, The Board also has worked with the Physician Chapter
   791, Statutes of 1998, Business & Professions Assessment and Clinical
   Education (PACE) program at Code sections 2191 and 2196.2) requires the
   Medical the University of California, San Diego, to make widely Board
   and the Board of Registered Nursing to consider available its Physician
   Prescribing course to provide including a course on pain management in
   their expanded education in the latest standards of prescribing,
   continuing education requirements. The Medical Board including
   prescribing for pain management. This course must periodically develop
   and disseminate information provides invaluable information to assist
   in educating and educational material regarding pain management
   physicians regarding the latest in prescribing practices. techniques
   and procedures to each licensed physician and surgeon and to each
   general acute care hospital, and must The Board sponsors its own Pain
   Management Seminar, consult with the Department of Health Services in
   certified for Category I CME, which provides both developing materials
   to be distributed. medical and regulatory perspectives on this subject
   and educates attendees about how to identify patients who AB 791
   (Thomson, Chapter 403, Statutes of 1999, need management of their pain
   as distinct from those Business & Professions Code section 2089) Pain
   who are engaged in illegal drug-seeking behavior. management and
   end-of-life care are now parts of the curriculum requirements for
   students entering medical Finally, the Board is developing enhanced
   school on or after June 1, 2000. communication efforts to bring the
   latest concepts in pain management to its over 109,000 physicians.
   These efforts AB 2018 (Thomson, Chapter 1092, Statutes of 2000, will
   include enhanced links from its Web site and Health & Safety Code
   sections 11161 and 11164) allows expanded discussions on pain
   management in future physicians to request from the Department of
   Justice a newsletters. sufficient supply of triplicate prescription
   forms to meet the needs of their patient population. Physicians or
   Recently Passed employees may complete the forms, provided the Pain
   Management Laws physician signs it. Pharmacists are allowed to notify
   the prescriber of an unintended error on the form and obtain (To access
   these laws, go to www.leginfo.ca.gov, click on approval for correction,
   so the patient does not have to "California Law," check the code and
   search for the return to the office for a corrected prescription, as
   long as section you want to review.) a corrected copy is sent or faxed
   from the physician to the SB 402 (Green, Chapter 839, Statutes of 1997,
   Health & pharmacist within seven days. Safety Code section 124961)
   established the "Pain Patient's Bill of Rights." Physicians may refuse
   to Medical Board Guidelines prescribe opioid medication for patients
   who request the for the Treatment of Intractable Pain treatment for
   severe chronic intractable pain; however, they must inform the patient
   that other physicians 1. HISTORY/PHYSICAL EXAMINATION specialize in the
   treatment of such pain with methods that A thorough medical history and
   physical examination include the use of opiates. must be accomplished.
   AB 2305 (Runner, Chapter 984, Statutes of 1998, Business & Professions
   Code section 725, Health & 2. TREATMENT PLAN, OBJECTIVES Safety Code
   section 1367.215) Physicians who are in The treatment plan should state
   objectives by which compliance with the California Intractable Pain Act
   will treatment success can be evaluated, such as pain relief not be
   subject to disciplinary action. Healthcare service and/or improved
   physical and psychosocial function, and plans must approve or deny
   coverage for terminally ill indicate if any further diagnostic
   evaluations or other enrollees within 72 hours of receipt of the
   information. treatments are planned. Several treatment modalities or a
   rehabilitation program may be necessary. (Continued on page 17) Medical
   Board of California ACTION REPORT Page 16 October 2001 Effective Pain
   Management (continued from page 16) President's Report 3. INFORMED
   CONSENT (continued from page 2) The physician should discuss the risks
   and benefits of the use courses such as these be available as of
   controlled substances with the patient or guardian. CME and
   participation be encouraged, for example, by waiving 4. PERIODIC REVIEW
   a physician's license renewal fee in The physician should periodically
   review the course of exchange for this public service? I opioid
   treatment of the patient and any new information prefer incentives to
   mandates in about the etiology of the pain. Continuation or
   modification problem solving. A dynamic tension of opioid therapy
   depends on the physician's evaluation of will always exist when facing
   the progress toward treatment objectives. problems of the nature and
   magnitude as these. 5. CONSULTATION The fellowship pledge of the The
   physician should be willing to refer the patient as American College of
   Surgeons holds necessary for additional evaluation and treatment to
   achieve the physician "to place the welfare of treatment objectives.
   Physicians should give special attention my patients above all else."
   Eight to those pain patients who are at risk for misusing their
   thousand physicians acted on this medications. The management of pain
   in patients with a weighty charge when New York history of substance
   abuse requires extra care, monitoring, called. We salute them for their
   documentation and consultation with addiction specialists,
   physicianship. We should now and may entail the use of agreements
   between the provider confront our system problems with and the patient
   to specify rules for medication use. renewed awareness, commitment and
   determination to engage, inform and 6. RECORDS work with our elected
   representatives The physician should keep accurate and complete
   records, in reforming and advancing including the medical history and
   physical examination, healthcare delivery in California. other
   evaluations and consultations, treatment plan objectives, informed
   consent, treatments, medications, agreements with the patient, and
   periodic reviews. 7. COMPLIANCE WITH CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES TDD Numbers
   LAWS AND REGULATIONS To prescribe substances, the physician must be
   appropriately licensed in California and comply with federal and state
   Medical Board telephone numbers regulations for issuing controlled
   substances prescriptions. for the hearing-impaired (TDD): Documented
   adherence to these guidelines will substantially Division of Licensing
   establish the physician's responsible treatment of patients (916)
   263-2687 with intractable pain and will serve to defend that treatment
   Central Complaint Unit practice in the face of complaints which may be
   brought. (916) 263-0935 Medical Board of California ACTION REPORT
   October 2001 Page 17 ADMINISTRATIVE ACTIONS: MAY 1, 2001 TO JULY 31,
   2001 PHYSICIANS AND SURGEONS ARFANIA, JAMSHID, M.D. (A25755) BLATT,
   DAVID EBNER, M.D. (C39040) Palos Verdes, CA Chicago, IL B&P Code §822.
   Violated terms and conditions of B&P Code §141(a). Stipulated Decision.
   Board-ordered probation. Ability to practice medicine Reprimanded by
   Illinois for failing to confirm a safely is impaired due to mental or
   physical illness. patient's presenting diagnosis of being HIV positive
   Revoked. June 15, 2001 during the course of the patient's treatment
   from 1990 through 1996. Public Letter of Reprimand. BALETTE, ROBERT
   EDMUND, M.D. (A48109) May 24, 2001 Los Angeles, CA B&P Code §§726,
   2234(b). Committed sexual CHRISTOPHERSON, JANICE RENEE, M.D. misconduct
   and gross negligence in the care and (A68142) San Jose, CA treatment of
   1 patient. Revoked. July 18, 2001. B&P Code §822. Stipulated Decision.
   Suspended Judicial review is being pursued. indefinitely until there is
   evidence of the control or absence of any condition, mental or
   physical, that BANSAL, SANJAY, M.D. (G66178) impairs her ability to
   practice safely. May 28, 2001 Santa Rosa, CA B&P Code §2234(c).
   Stipulated Decision. Committed COLMAN, LARRY MELVIN, M.D. (C32794)
   repeated negligent acts in that on a routine basis for Palos Verdes
   Estates, CA several years the microkeratome blades and the B&P Code
   §§2234(e), 2261. Failed to comply with microkeratome assembly used in
   LASIK eye surgery Board-ordered probation and committed dishonest were
   reused without sterilization or disinfection. acts by reporting false
   information on Quarterly Revoked, stayed, 3 years probation with terms
   and Affidavit Forms submitted to the Board. Public conditions. June 15,
   2001 Reprimand. July 20, 2001 Explanation of Disciplinary Language and
   Actions "Effective date of decision" - Example: "Probationary Terms and
   Conditions" long as the licensee complies with "May 10, 2001" at the
   bottom of the - Examples: Complete a clinical training specified
   probationary terms and summary means the date the disciplinary program.
   Take educational courses in conditions, which, in this example,
   decision goes into operation. specified subjects. Take a course in
   Ethics. includes 60 days actual suspension from Pass an oral clinical
   exam. Abstain from practice. Violation of probation may "Gross
   negligence" - An extreme alcohol and drugs. Undergo result in the
   revocation that was deviation from the standard of practice.
   psychotherapy or medical treatment. postponed. Surrender your DEA drug
   permit. Provide "Stipulated Decision" - A form of "Incompetence" - Lack
   of knowledge free services to a community facility. plea bargaining.
   The case is negotiated or skills in discharging professional and
   settled prior to trial. obligations. "Public Letter of Reprimand" - A
   lesser form of discipline that can be "Surrender" - Resignation under a
   "Judicial review is being pursued" - negotiated for minor violations
   before the cloud. While charges are pending, the The disciplinary
   decision is being filing of formal charges (accusations). The licensee
   turns in the license - subject to challenged through the court system-
   licensee is disciplined in the form of a acceptance by the relevant
   board. Superior Court, maybe Court of Appeal, public letter.
   "Suspension from practice" - The maybe State Supreme Court. The
   licensee is prohibited from practicing for discipline is currently in
   effect. "Revoked" - The license is canceled, a specific period of time.
   voided, annulled, rescinded. The right to "Probationary License" - A
   practice is ended. "Temporary Restraining Order" - A conditional
   license issued to an applicant TRO is issued by a Superior Court Judge
   "Revoked, stayed, 5 years probation on on probationary terms and
   conditions. to halt practice immediately. When terms and conditions,
   including 60 days This is done when good cause exists for issued by an
   Administrative Law Judge, suspension" - "Stayed" means the denial of
   the license application. it is called an ISO (Interim Suspension
   revocation is postponed, put off. Order). Professional practice may
   continue so Medical Board of California ACTION REPORT Page 18 October
   2001 CONE, ROBERT R., M.D. (A28969) GUERRERO, CARLOS, M.D. (G45844)
   Tijuana, BCN CP Mexico Bakersfield, CA B&P Code §§2234,
   2234(b)(c)(d)(e), 2261, 2266. B&P Code §§475(a)(1)(a)(2)(a)(3),
   480(c)(a)(1)(a)(2), Committed acts of gross negligence, repeated
   2236(a). Stipulated Decision. Failed to disclose negligence, and
   incompetence in the care and conviction of a crime on his license
   application. treatment of 2 patients. Also committed dishonest License
   granted, revoked, stayed, 5 years probation acts, provided false
   statements in documents and with terms and conditions. May 3, 2001
   committed perjury. Revoked. May 24, 2001 HADI, GHASSAN EL-ABDALLAH,
   M.D. (A52261) ELLIS, WILLIAM, M.D. (G19742) La Verne, CA El Cerrito, CA
   B&P Code §2266. Stipulated Decision. Failed to B&P Code §2234.
   Stipulated Decision. No maintain adequate medical records in the care
   and admissions but charged with failing to note in a treatment of 1
   patient. Public Letter of Reprimand. patient's medical records or
   advise the patient of a May 31, 2001 complication from a surgical
   procedure performed on the patient's eye. Public Reprimand. June 18,
   2001 HOLMES, RANDOLPH PETER, M.D. (G42202) Whittier, CA FELDMAN, CLARK
   ALAN, M.D. (G32145) B&P Code §2234. Stipulated Decision. Committed Los
   Angeles, CA unprofessional conduct by failing to provide B&P Code
   §2234. Stipulated Decision. Initiated or appropriate medical care to 1
   patient. Public attempted to initiate social relationships with 3
   former Reprimand. May 31, 2001 patients without adequate documentation
   of the termination of the physician-patient relationship. HURRIA, KESHO
   NATH, M.D. (A32102) Public Letter of Reprimand. June 26, 2001 Anaheim,
   CA B&P Code §2234(c)(d). Committed repeated GALLA, ARTHUR F., M.D.
   (A18055) negligent acts and demonstrated incompetence in San Carlos, CA
   the post-operative care and treatment of a patient's B&P Code
   §§2234(b)(d), 2266. Stipulated Decision. ankle fracture. Revoked,
   stayed, 5 years probation Committed acts of gross negligence and with
   terms and conditions. July 20, 2001 incompetence by failing to order
   appropriate, medically indicated tests and failing to maintain
   ISRAELSTAM, DAVID M., M.D. (C26177) adequate medical records in the
   care and treatment Madison, WI of 1 patient. Public Reprimand. June 6,
   2001 B&P Code §§2234, 141(a). Reprimanded by Wisconsin for
   unprofessional conduct relating to GASTELUM, CHRISTIAN JOHN, M.D.
   (A74589) physician-patient boundary issues in the treatment of Diamond
   Bar, CA a psychiatric patient. Public Letter of Reprimand. B&P Code
   §§480(a)(1)(a)(2)(a)(3), 480(c). Denial of May 17, 200
