http://isweb.tasc.dot.gov/publications.htm

   Publications and Distribution, U.S. Department of Transportation, TASC

    Link Divider Button On-Line Publications Link Divider Button Printing
      Services Link Divider Button Graphic Services Link Divider Button
   Distribution Services Link Divider Button Copier Services Link Divider
                          Button Warehouse Services

   On-Line Publications offers the public the option to access Department
   of Transportation publications on-line from a centralized Departmental
   Web site. Members of the public can view or download materials at their
   desktops. For those publications that are too long to print at your
   desktop, a customer can submit a request on-line to have the desired
   publication printed and shipped to their address.
   Contact: Bill Cunnane, 202-493-0116.

                                 Divider Bar

    People Working in Photocopier Room Printing Services provides DOT
    customers with on-site state-of-the-art high-speed electronic
    copying,duplicating and offset printing. With access to more than
    13,000 printing contractors nationwide, we offer a complete range of
    printing, high-speed duplication, binding, and finishing services. We
    provide technical printing consultation and preflighting of digital
    files to ensure that customers get the best value.
    Contact: Craig Larsen, 202-366-1264.

                                  Divider Bar

     Graphic Designer at Work Graphic Services provides a full range of
     graphics design services including expert consultation, design, and
   layout services as well as design multi-media presentations, combining
       the latest in computer animation with video technology and more
     traditional information displays. We assist customers in developing
     communication concepts by creating designs and layouts for CD-ROMs,
      home pages, publications, posters, plaques, and certificates, and
      provide customers with camera-ready copy for printing and on-line
                                  display.
                   Contact: Dan Halberstein, 202-366-1122.

                                 Divider Bar

       Woman Carrying Box of Mail Distribution Services provides mail
   operations for the DOT Headquarter buildings. We handle over 12 million
     pieces of mail annually that require performing inspections on all
    incoming packages and letters for security purposes. We also provide
     customers with the ability to track packages delivered by alternate
   carriers to assure prompt delivery, and provide complete small package
             handling, packing, and shipment services worldwide.
                     Contact: Dave Proper, 202-366-1015.

                                 Divider Bar

     Person Using Photocopier Copier Services provides in-office digital
     copy machine equipment that can be networked directly to customers
     desktops, enabling them to take advantage of volume discounts. TASC
    digital office copiers also provide customers with fax capabilities,
    saving space and equipment costs and allowing customers to fax files
    directly from their desktops. We install copiers and provide training
       to customers in how to use them, assist customers in networking
   copiers, provide any needed maintenance and repair, and offer immediate
                  on-site assistance during business hours.
                    Contact: Leisca White, 202-366-0719.

                                 Divider Bar

   Warehouse Warehouse Services is responsible for storing bulk materials,
    providing truck services, receiving, reporting and excessing personal
    property for DOT organizations located in the Washington Metropolitan
                                    area.
                    Contact: Bill Cunnane, 202-493-0116.

                                 Divider Bar

   Link Divider Button Information Services Link Divider Button TASC Link
                             Divider Button DOT
