http://clear.search.gov/notes/2000-11-21.txt

   Clearinghouse Partnership Meeting Notes November 21, 2000 General
   Services Administration auditorium, Washington,DC. Notes submitted by
   Marcia Christian (Attendance not taken) Dick Griffin, interim executive
   secretary, welcomed approximately 50 attendees to the meeting and
   announced that there were also 15 interested parties listening to the
   proceedings via phone lines. Dick reminded participants that the
   Clearinghouse goal is to promote non-proprietary information exchange
   leading to enhanced e-government information dissemination to the
   public. He then introduced Marty Wagner, Director of the Office of
   Government Policy within the General Services Administration. Marty
   emphasized that regardless of the upcoming election results there is a
   unitary vision of support for developing e-government. The public would
   be best served if they could get information from a "horizontal
   government" i.e., a system that would not require a prior understanding
   of the mechanics of government (e.g., State Department handles passport
   applications). Marty sees the role of FirstGov as making visible the
   work of others, such as the Federal Geographic Data Committee (FGDC).
   Other Clearinghouse goals should be making government Websites easier
   to use and encouraging consistency on Websites. Marty also asked
   Clearinghouse partners to focus on issues of security, privacy and
   interagency funding. A technical presentation entitled "FirstGov: the
   Next Generation" was delivered by Tom Freebairn, Director of the
   FirstGov project Tom explained that FirstGov maintains links to
   selected government information sources. It also provides a monthly
   featured subject in detail (e.g., "Social Security online benefit
   registration"). There is also a feedback mechanism whereby users can
   channel complaints to appropriate officials. There are levels of
   participation in the FirstGov project. Anyone with services to offer
   and who agrees to adhere to the following FirstGov principles may join.
   FirstGov requires that members must ensure: integrity of information;
   free access to information; appropriate privacy; checks against
   "inappropriate" materials; accessibility; and specific feedback
   mechanisms. The levels of participation are designated as bronze,
   silver or gold. Bronze members provide the FirstGov logo with their
   information. Silver members include a search box and a results page
   with their information. Gold members have more closely integrated
   search capabilities. Audience questions brought out the following
   points: - FirstGov will increase traffic on and awareness of agency
   Websites but is not trying to impose agency standards. - FirstGov site
   is re-indexed every 2 weeks, the 1st and 15th of each month - Federal
   agencies are eligible for gold partnership, which would essentially
   provide a free search engine. Tom said he looks forward to federal,
   state and local cooperation on this project and he would appreciate
   comments and suggestions. Another technical presentation was delivered
   by Pam Johnson, Assistant Director of the National Partnership for
   Reinventing Government (NPR). The presentation was on "G-Gov: Locator
   services today & tomorrow". Pam said that NPR has been emphasizing
   geographic information in their efforts to co-ordinate interagency
   e-government issues. They have been tracking interagency progress
   toward a "spatial data infrastructure" since 1993, especially in the
   fields of natural resources. Geospatial information can be merged with
   and generalized to other types of inquiry. Examples cited were the
   comparison of nursing homes within a given locality and land use
   planning. Government services can improve accuracy, e.g., more
   appropriate bus routes near seniors. Furthermore, government services
   can be held to more accountability when information becomes more
   localized. Jack Pellicci of Oracle delivered another technical
   presentation, focused on "Spatially-enabled E-government". Jack began
   with a synopsis of Oracle's involvement in the geospatial realm. Then,
   he gave an overview of how e-government could create smarter
   communities based on "e-business" and "e-learning." Jack asserted that
   Government portals must become "location aware" and be directly
   available to citizens and businesses. This will improve government
   services and increase digital opportunity. He also cautioned against
   reliance on the Web, suggesting some need for independent internet
   infrastructures. Jack also noted the imperative to ensure security and
   privacy. John Moeller announced that the Federal Geographic Data
   Committee (FGDC) has put out a Request for Information (RFI) on
   "spatially enabling government infrastructures". The RFI will be open
   until the end of January. John invited everyone to submit ideas.
   Another technical presentation was delivered by Greg Pisocky of Adobe
   Systems. Greg spoke about "Geo-indexing of PDF files". Greg said that
   it has been estimated that 25% of government information is stored in
   PDF files, which are difficult to search with text based systems. Greg
   demonstrated scalable vector graphics (SVG), which is an open standard
   vector graphic language. Adobe does not own this standard but has been
   working with it, especially in conjunction with the World Wide Web
   Consortium (W3C). SVG makes use of extensible markup language (XML),
   which Mr. Pisocky finds quite advantageous. Further information is
   available at /www.adobe.com/SVG>. Kevin Wiggins of Xythos Software
   delivered a technical presentation, on the subject of WebDAV and DASL.
   Kevin explained that WebDAV stands for "distributed authoring and
   versioning" on the Web. WebDAV is a transport layer which can be used
   to develop intelligent storage; e.g., deleting particular files after a
   certain time period. It extends the use of HTTP by adding new
   information about files. This enables searching metadata and adds the
   ability to control levels of access. DASL stands for "distributed
   authoring, search and locating". Eliot Christian noted that because
   FirstGov will be GILS compliant, it will be able to be interfaced with
   DASL. For more information, follow the DASL link on the GILS homepage
   at /www.gils.net/>. Dick Griffin reminded Clearinghouse partners that
   business will continue to be conducted online under various discussion
   lists. Members need not travel to Washington, D.C. to participate.
   Potential Partners were encouraged to get more information about the
   Clearinghouse Agreement at /www.clear.search.gov> . Eliot Christian
   noted that the Clearinghouse Partnership could submit a response to the
   FGDC RFI announced earlier by John Moeller. A proposed response already
   having been submitted for online consideration, Eliot asked for a vote
   of approval to send the document on behalf of the Clearinghouse
   Partnership. ESRI moved in favor; the motion was seconded and passed
   unanimously. (The document as sent to the FGDC is available at
   /clear.search.gov>. The Clearinghouse meeting adjourned at
   approximately noon.
