http://www.cstl.nist.gov/FY2000TAR/05_healthcare.pdf

   +HDOWKFDUH 0HDVXUHPHQWV Chemical metrology is at the heart of accurate
   medical diagnosis and the development of measures to improve our health
   and ensure long life. In the U.S. about 1.5 trillion dollars are spent
   each year on health care, which is over 14 % of our GDP. More than 25%
   of these expenditures are for measurements. It is estimated that over
   one third of these measurements are performed for non- diagnostic
   purposes, such as QA/QC measurements and retests at a cost of about
   $40B annually. Clearly, improvements in the reliability of chemical
   measurements in this area would have a significant economic impact for
   our country. NIST/CSTL works closely with the American Association for
   Clinical Chemistry (AACC), the Centers for Disease Control and
   Prevention (CDC), NCCLS, and other organizations interested in
   health-related standards to help prioritize our standards activities
   and the development of SRMs. CSTL's Healthcare Measurements Program
   addresses measurements and standards needs of the medical industry  in
   the areas of prevention, diagnostics, and treatment. For more than 20
   years CSTL has developed, maintained, and refined "Definitive Methods"
   for 12 health status markers to support the national reference system
   for clinical measurements: calcium, chlorine, cholesterol, creatinine,
   glucose, lithium, magnesium, potassium, sodium, triglycerides, urea,
   and uric acid. NIST definitive methods for these health status
   indicators have been used to value-assign SRMs and high-priority serum
   pools used to serve as the anchor point for CDC developed reference
   methods and by the College of American Pathologist (CAP) for
   proficiency testing of more than 20,000 U.S. clinical laboratories.
   Improved accuracy facilitated by this program has led to better
   diagnosis, treatment, and reduced healthcare costs. Maintaining these
   anchor points for the clinical measurements reference system also
   facilitates * Troponin heart attack marker the development and use of
   new technologies * Homocysteine risk of heart disease * Glycated
   diabetes status that are better, faster and cheaper. Hemoglobin *
   Cortisol endocrine function A new generation of health status markers,
   * Thyroxine thyroid function emerging now, shows great promise from the
   * Cadmium heavy metal toxicity clinical diagnostic perspective, but
   offers new * Folic Acid neural tube defects and more difficult
   challenges for standardization. * Mercury heavy metal toxicity Many of
   the new markers are proteins, peptides, * Speciated Iron
   hemochromatosis, or other large biomolecules, usually present at anemia
   very low concentrations. Because of the large * Human Serum renal
   failure market for tests for these new markers, many Albumin different
   approaches have been developed * Prostate Specific prostate cancer
   commercially resulting in vast disagreements Antigen among manufacturer
   test kits. NIST/ CSTL has * P53 DNA breast cancer focused on basic
   research to establish reference * Thyroid Stimulating thyroid function
   systems for several new biomarkers, shown in Hormone the box to the
   right. 39 Another driving force for more clinical reference standards
   is the new European Community (EC) In Vitro Diagnostic Devices (IVDD)
   directive that requires traceability of IVD devices to recognized
   national standards. By December 2003, all IVD products sold in Europe
   must have the "EC Mark" verifying compliance with the directive. U.S.
   manufacturers are major exporters of IVD products and thus are directly
   impacted by this directive. In November 2000, NIST hosted a workshop on
   Measurement Traceability for Clinical Laboratory Testing and In Vitro
   Diagnostic Devices. CSTL worked closely with the workshop cosponsors,
   NCCLS, AACC, AdvaMed (formerly HIMA), CDC, and College of American
   Pathologists (CAP) to ensure that the needs of the IVD industry were
   presented and met. The workshop goals were to develop recommendations
   regarding the needs for measurement traceability for health status
   markers to (1) address IVD industry needs for compliance with
   international standards (e.g., EU IVD Directive) and (2) improve
   comparability of clinical measurement data to facilitate better
   decision making by medical professionals. The status of current health
   status marker work, grouped by disease state, is described below.
   Markers to Improve Disease Diagnosis and Management Cardiac Troponin-I
   (cTnI): Marker to Diagnose Heart Disease D. Bunk, J. Dalluge, M. Welch
   (839), R. Christenson, and S.H. Duh (University of Maryland) The
   measurement of cTnI in serum provides a highly selective and sensitive
   means for diagnosing myocardial infarction. For clinical cTnI
   measurement, there are NIST, the American Association for numerous cTnI
   assays that have Clinical Chemistry (AACC), and the been developed.
   Unfortunately, International Federation of Clinical cTnI measurements
   using Chemistry (IFCC) have formed a different methods on identical
   subcommittee to address inter- samples may differ by 100-fold, method
   variability problems in clinical cTnI measurement, through creating a
   serious problem for development of a cTnI reference the clinical
   community. The material to harmonize results. Troponin-I subcommittee
   chose ten candidate reference materials, which were analyzed at NIST
   for purity and structural heterogeneity using liquid chromatography
   coupled with mass spectrometry (LC/MS). The candidate reference
   materials were sent to all manufacturers of commercial cTnI assays used
   in the United States and Europe (13 manufacturers in total) for
   analysis using their cTnI assays. Total ion chromatogram from the LC/MS
   analysis of the cardiac troponin CIT complex from the University of
   Miami. The inserts show the molecular mass distributions from the
   troponin T, troponin I, and troponin C peaks, respectively. Results
   from these analyses were collected and subjected to statistical
   analysis that found that two candidate reference materials, both
   complexes of troponin I with other troponin isoforms, provided the most
   40 linear response for all thirteen cTnI assays. The next comparison
   study will involve these two materials and blood samples from patients
   with myocardial infarction. The candidate reference materials will be
   used to calibrate the commercial cTnI assays prior to measuring the
   patient samples. This study should determine the material that will
   best harmonize the commercial cTnI assays. Homocysteine: Marker to
   Diagnose Heart Disease J. Dalluge, B. Nelson, L.T. Sniegoski, and S.
   Margolis (839) Total homocysteine (tHcy) has emerged as an important
   independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease, as well as other
   serious health conditions. tHcy is measured clinically using a variety
   of methods including immunoassays and LC-based methods requiring
   extensive derivatization procedures and frequent analysis of quality
   control samples. Because clinical laboratories use a variety of
   different methods for its measurement, interlaboratory comparisons of
   tHcy measurements are poor. Work at NIST has focused on development of
   LC/MS and GC/MS methods. For the LC/MS method, chromatographic columns
   and elution conditions were investigated to achieve retention of
   homocysteine. This led to development of an elution system that allowed
   unambiguous detection of two homocysteine-specific ions and two
   isotopically labeled homocysteine-specific ions (internal standard) in
   human plasma. The quantitative capabilities of this approach will be
   tested in conjunction with the GC/MS method under development and in
   collaboration with scientists at the Mayo Clinic. Use of GC/MS requires
   additional separations and derivatization prior to analysis. An anion
   exchange method was found that provided the necessary analyte
   isolation. Thus, the GC/MS method should be ready for further testing
   in the near future. Once the methods have been validated, they will be
   applied to the determination of homocysteine in plasma-based
   Identification of Hcy and d4 Hcy in human plasma reference materials.
   using LC/MS. The peaks corresponding to Hcy and d4 Hcy in the mixture
   are labeled with an asterisk. Concentration of Hcy and d4 Hcy in the
   plasma sample was 15 µmol. 41 Prostate-Specific Antigen (PSA): Marker
   to Diagnose Cancer C. Nelson, J. Dalluge, D.M. Bunk, and M.J. Welch
   (839) PSA is a single chain glycoprotein (~ 7% - 8% carbohydrate)
   present in the prostate and seminal fluid. The presence of PSA in the
   serum is measured as a diagnostic indicator of prostatic cancer.
   Clinical laboratories currently measure PSA by immunoassays, which are
   confounded by lack of common standards, and the heterogeneity of the
   antisera and antigen being measured. Measurement of PSA is a
   significant challenge due to the structural heterogeneity of PSA in
   serum, its low concentration in this complex matrix (<10 ng/mL), and
   lack of knowledge regarding what form is actually being measured in
   clinical PSA tests. Current research efforts are focused on
   characterization of a variety of PSA standards at the molecular level
   by LC/MS in order to understand further the heterogeneity of the
   analyte, arising predominately from differential lycosylation of the
   protein. Reproducible full scan (m/z 600 to 2500) positive charged mass
   spectra were obtained with a commercial source of PSA. Deconvolution of
   the mass spectrum showed a predominant molecular species at Mr 28,447;
   the predicted Mr for the glycosylated mature PSA is 28,430. Selected
   ion monitoring of specific positive charge states was utilized to
   detect PSA standards at levels as low as 50 ng. Further Full scan mass
   spectrum of prostate-specific antigen efforts will focus on: 1)
   production obtained by liquid chromatography/electrospray ionization of
   a well-characterized SRM for mass spectrometry improvement of
   between-method variations in calibration of immunoassay measurements,
   2) determination of specific forms of PSA in patient samples to
   understand better the clinically relevant forms of this compound, 3)
   isolation of PSA from serum using non-immunological methodology
   including combinatorial production of aptamers with high binding
   affinities for PSA, 4) development of LC/MS and LC/MS/MS methods for
   the measurement of PSA in serum. Evaluation of p53 Standard Reference
   Materials Using Mutational Scanning Technologies: Marker to Diagnose
   Cancer C.D. O'Connell, B.S. Akbasak, L. Tully, D.H. Atha (831), J.
   Delaney, and M. Marino (Transgenomic, Inc.) We have created a panel of
   p53 mutation standards for use in mutation detection technologies as
   part of our molecular diagnostic measurements program. These materials
   were used as positive controls to assess the mutational status of
   clinical specimens. Although DNA sequencing remains the "Gold Standard"
   for the detection of mutations, a number of mutational scanning
   technologies are being developed to reduce the region of the gene that
   needs to be sequenced, thus saving both time and cost. Measurement
   standards are required to accurately compare these mutation detection
   technologies. p53 gene p53 protein Measurements on clinical specimens
   were performed using proposed NIST SRM materials. Archival clinical
   samples were evaluated for p53 mutations within exons 5 through 9, the
   most commonly mutated region of this gene. The NIST materials, used for
   both positive and negative mutational controls, consisted of 11 mutant
   and 1 wild-type clone. 42 The two heteroduplex-based methods (DGGE and
   DHPLC) yielded identical results: 6 mutations were Four different
   mutation detection detected in the 33 samples analyzed. These were
   technologies were used in this study: confirmed by DNA sequencing.
   Difficulties in gel- 1) DNA sequencing, 2) single strand based
   separation (DGGE) of exon 5 heteroduplexes conformation polymorphism
   analysis (SSCP), 3) denaturing gradient gel were not observed in the
   DHPLC measurements. All electrophoresis (DGGE), and 4) but one mutation
   detected by heteroduplex analysis denaturing high performance liquid
   were also observed by slab gel and capillary SSCP chromatography
   (DHPLC). measurements. Multiple conformers were detected by SSCP in
   both slab- and capillary-based measurements, consistent with previous
   reports using this technology. The presence of multiple conformers
   representing a single species of DNA (wild-type or mutant) is a
   complication of the SSCP assay system. The wild-type standard was
   important in distinguishing wild-type conformers from mutations. Both
   slab gel SSCP and capillary SSCP detected additional conformers with
   respect to wild type in samples not reported as mutant by heteroduplex
   analysis. Automated fluorescent DNA sequencing did not confirm these
   putative mutations. These "mutations" may be present at too low a
   percentage in the mixed population of normal and tumor tissue to be
   detected by sequencing or heteroduplex analysis. Alternatively,
   additional conformers representing wild-type DNA are formed in the SSCP
   analysis of clinically derived genomic DNA samples. Future studies are
   aimed at determining the detection limits of these mutational scanning
   technologies for the identification of mutations in heterogeneous
   clinical materials. NIST Biomarker Validation Laboratory P.E. Barker
   and C.D. O'Connell (831) As a collaboration with the National Cancer
   Institute's new consortium The Early Detection Research Network (EDRN),
   CSTL's Biotechnology Division was selected to serve as the Biomarker
   Validation Laboratory for new cancer detection biomarkers discovered in
   this network. This 5-year, $2.2 million Interagency Agreement will
   focus on biomarkers with a strong nucleic acid component that are well
   within the expertise and interests of the DNA Technologies Group.
   Projects approved by the EDRN for validation include a project
   "Validation of the mutagen sensitivity and chromosomal hotspot assays"
   to be performed in collaboration with M.D. Anderson Cancer Center.
   Other biomarkers still in approval stage include assays for mtDNA
   sequence changes in head and neck tumors and serum levels of the enzyme
   telomerase. 43 Thyroid-Stimulating Hormone and Thyroxine: Marker to
   Diagnose Thyroid Disease S.S. Tai, L.T. Sniegowksi, and M.J. Welch
   (839) Human thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) is a hormone secreted by
   the pituitary gland. Its role is in the stimulation of the thyroid
   gland to produce the thyroid hormones triiodothyroxine (T3) and
   thyroxine (T4). Serum TSH levels are used as a diagnostic tool for
   assessing thyroid function. Increased TSH levels can be indicative of
   hypothyroidism, a condition in which the thyroid gland fails to
   recognize TSH and decreases its production of T3 and T4. TSH is
   structurally heterogeneous and present at very low levels in human
   serum, and therefore presents a significant measurement challenge. Work
   to date has focused on developing approaches for characterizing TSH
   preparations. We found that treating TSH with sialidase to remove
   sialic acid residues from the carbohydrate moieties on these proteins
   significantly improved their mass spectrometric characterization. Full
   characterization of the TSH Image of a Normal Thyroid preparations will
   require peptide mapping to verify identity and primary structure and
   characterization of carbohydrate heterogeneity. Thyroxine is a hormone
   secreted by the thyroid gland that is a stimulator for a number of
   functions and is important in growth, development, and sexual
   maturation. The concentration of total thyroxine in serum is about 50
   ng/mL - 110 ng/mL, and is used as a measure of thyroid function. A new
   method based on isotope dilution liquid chromatography/mass
   spectrometry using electrospray for ionization (LC/MS-ESI) has been
   developed for the determination of total thyroxine in serum. Samples of
   CAP survey sera were prepared and measured on three separate sets.
   Excellent precision was obtained for all three levels of serum samples
   with within-set CVs ranging from 0.2% to 1.0%. Excellent linearity was
   obtained with the correlation coefficients of all linear regression
   lines ranging from 0.999 to 1.000. Positive and negative ion
   measurements agree within 0.8%. The detection limit at a signal to
   noise ratio of approximately 3 to 5 for thyroxine with this method is
   estimated to be 30 pg and 20 pg for positive and negative ion,
   respectively. The LC/MS-ESI method was tested against field methods
   (about 1900 laboratories from CAP surveys). The results of the
   LC/MS-ESI method and field methods compared well with an average
   difference of 5% for all three levels. This method will be used to
   measure the thyroxine level in some existing serum-based SRMs. Future
   plans are to develop a new SRM with both low and elevated levels of
   thyroxine and cortisol. More than 99.9% of thyroxine in blood is bound
   to protein. There is considerable interest in measuring free thyroxine,
   but clinical methods give widely varying results. The isolation of the
   free thyroxine and its measurement by LC/MS will be investigated. 44
   Glycated Hemoglobin: Marker for Improved Management of Diabetes D. Bunk
   and J. Dalluge (839) Glucose accumulates Approximately 16 million
   people in the in the blood of those United States have diabetes, with
   with type II produce nearly 2,200 new cases diagnosed insulin since the
   cells in each day. About 95% of the people their bodies are "insulin
   with diabetes have type II disease. resistant" and do not respond
   properly to the hormone. Left untreated, diabetes can result in
   cardiovascular disease, kidney disease, eye diseases, and
   nervous-system maladies. In addition to the daily monitoring of blood
   glucose levels, the measurement of glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) plays an
   important role in the diagnosis and treatment of diabetes. When blood
   glucose levels rise above NIST has participated in normal, the glucose
   can react with hemoglobin in the blood, inlaboratory comparison forming
   HbA1c. Since the lifetime of hemoglobin in the studies of IFCC
   reference bloodstream is approximately 3 to 4 months, the measurement
   materials and has provided of HbA1c provides a record of the levels of
   blood glucose over critiques for improvements. the course of 3 to 4
   months. Glycated hemoglobin measurement provides doctors with
   information on the efficacy of diabetes treatment over a longer period
   than daily blood glucose measurements. While the medical utility of
   HbA1c measurement has been clearly demonstrated, the clinical
   application of HbA1c measurement has demonstrated considerable problems
   with method-to-method variability. There is a strong need for HbA1c
   measurement standardization. The International Federation for Clinical
   Chemistry (IFCC) has developed two reference methods for the
   determination of HbA1c in blood hemolysates. One method uses liquid
   chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry (LC/MS) and the other
   used capillary electrophoresis (CE) for HbA1c determination. Both
   methods have demonstrated high precision (average inter-laboratory
   coefficient of variance 2%) and excellent agreement with each other.
   These reference methods have been implemented in a network of
   laboratories worldwide. Currently the IFCC reference methods are being
   used to value-assign an international HbA1c reference material
   Iron-Containing Proteins: Marker for Diseases Related to Abnormal Serum
   Iron Levels D. Bunk and S.E. Long (839) Serum iron determinations are
   an important clinical measurement. According to the CDC hereditary
   hemochromatosis is the most common genetic disorder in the United
   States, with approximately one in one hundred people at Low serum iron
   levels are indicative of risk for developing the disease. Typically,
   for diseases such as anemia, rheumatoid arthritis, the purpose of
   medical diagnosis, the total and certain infections. serum iron
   concentration is measured. Hemochromatosis, the most common form of
   However, in many iron-related diseases, the iron overload disease, is
   an inherited disorder distribution of iron bound to serum proteins is
   that causes the body to absorb and store too altered. For improved
   medical diagnosis, it much iron, often resulting in failure of the
   liver, would be beneficial to determine the heart, or pancreas.
   distribution of iron among serum proteins as well as the total serum
   iron concentration. Work has begun on development of methodologies that
   will lead to a reference material for speciated iron in serum, a
   material that could be used for the more routine clinical measurements
   of total serum iron, but also used for the more advanced diagnosis of
   iron-related diseases. The two important iron-containing proteins in
   human serum are transferrin and ferritin. The concentration of ferritin
   in serum is approximately one thousand times lower than that of
   transferrin. However, medical research is indicating that serum
   ferritin determination can often be a more selective diagnosis tool
   than determination using transferrin. Development of a 45 quantitative
   method for serum Transferrin transferrin using liquid Molecular Mass =
   75,143 chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry (LC/MS) and
   affinity chromatography is underway. The concentration of iron
   associated with the transferrin will be measured using high-resolution
   inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP/MS). Together, the
   LC/MS and the ICP/MS measurements provide highly selective and
   high-precision values for both serum transferrin and serum iron levels.
   Human Transferrin (Tf) Electrospray-ionization mass spectra Bilirubin:
   Marker for Elevated Liver Function Y.Y. Davidson, L.T. Sniegoski, and
   M.J. Welch (839) Bilirubin, the orange-yellow bile pigment, is produced
   from Elevated levels of bilirubin in protoporphyrin IX by microsomal
   heme oxygenase. There blood are indicative of are three principal
   isomers impaired liver function. of bilirubin, which may be H C CH 2 OH
   HO 3 free or complexed with other H C 3 N N blood constituents.
   Clinical laboratory measurements of bilirubin CH2 exhibit considerable
   variability because of method differences and calibration errors. Our
   goal is to develop an LC/MS H C N 3 N H CH3 reference method to measure
   bilirubin. Efforts have focused on HOOC COOH first establishing the
   spectrophotometric reference method based upon a direct diazo reaction.
   Plans are to use this method as a tool for validation of the LC/MS
   method, and then to use both methods for certification of bilirubin in
   serum-based SRMs. 46 Folic Acid: Marker for Neural Tube Defects B.C.
   Nelson, J.J. Dalluge, S.A. Margolis, D.Z. Bezebeh, and L.C. Sander
   (839) The ability to determine folic acid status accurately is a Folic
   acid is a water-soluble significant challenge due to the existence of
   up to eight B vitamin that plays a metabolites, many of which are
   unstable, and their low levels in significant role in human health:
   plasma and serum (total folate concentration 20 ng/ml). A 1) A
   deficiency of folic gradient elution liquid chromatography/electrospray
   ionization- acid during gestation mass spectrometry (LC/ESI-MS) method
   for the separation and causes neural tube detection of the five most
   biologically relevant folates has been malformations that result
   developed and applied to the quantitation of folates in human in spina
   bifida. plasma/serum. The method involves the in vitro stabilization of
   plasma samples via a dual antioxidant system (L-ascorbic 2) A
   deficiency of folic acid/L-cysteine), protein precipitation and sample
   concentration. acid causes the The major circulating folate (5-methyl
   tetrahydrofolic acid) in accumulation of high human plasma/serum is
   detectable and quantifiable based on a levels of amino acid
   homocysteine that has standard additions procedure using an endogenous
   plasma been linked to the component as an internal standard. The other
   biologically increased risk of relevant folates are not detectable in
   normal human plasma. cardiovascular disease This group of researchers
   is also developing a second method and other diseases. based on the use
   of liquid chromatography with coulometric detection for the
   determination of folates in plasma. Current efforts are focused on
   developing a folate quantitation procedure based on the use of external
   standard calibrants so that the LC/MS method might be more adaptable to
   Folic Acid Binding Protein routine clinical use. Diagnostic and
   Therapeutic Standards Lead, Cadmium, Total Mercury, and Methyl Mercury
   S.E. Long, M.S. Rearick, R.D. Vocke, and E.A. Mackey (839) A whole
   blood reference material, SRM 966, for evaluating the accuracy of lead
   (Pb), cadmium (Cd), total mercury (Hg) and methyl mercury (MeHg)
   measurements in whole blood at natural and slightly elevated levels has
   been released this year. Analysis of whole blood is one of the most
   common ways exposure to these toxic trace elements is monitored in the
   human population. Also, a large number of organizations in the human
   health New OSHA workplace monitoring standards now monitoring area
   (e.g. CDC, NIEHS, EPA, and WHO) have require measurements of indicated
   their interest in biological SRMs (especially blood) blood cadmium;
   prior to certified for MeHg. A unit of this SRM consists of two vials
   from this SRM, only proficiency each of two levels (natural and
   elevated), containing samples with consensus approximately 2 mL of
   whole blood each. The bovine blood base cadmium values existed material
   was prepared for NIST at a USDA licensed facility from as "standards".
   cows bled after dosing with lead nitrate. 47 Endogenous Pb
   concentrations were certified Pb Pb Pb Pb Cd by isotope dilution (ID)
   ICP-MS, a primary 100 1000 method for this analyte in clinical
   materials. Cd concentrations in the elevated level were C 100 o
   certified by combining data results from two dL n g/ cen independent
   methods, instrumental neutron µ 10 tr activation analysis (INAA) and ID
   ICP-MS. ati 10 Total Hg was certified in the elevated material on 1 (
   by combining data from ID ICP-MS and cold entration µg/L) nc vapor
   atomic absorption spectrometry Co 0.1 (CVAAS). This material will
   support workplace and general public health monitoring for lead, 1 0.01
   cadmium, total mercury and MeHg in blood. SRM SRM SRM SRM SRM 955b 966
   955b 966 966 SRM 966 released in FY 2000 is a new addition to the NIST
   SRMs for Pb and Cd in Whole Blood Inhaled Nitric Oxide Therapy W.J.
   Thorn (839) For more than five years, researchers in CSTL's CSTL's work
   facilitates the Analytical Chemistry Division have been working with
   implementation of Inhaled Nitric the National Insitute for Child Health
   and Development Oxide (INO) Therapy that could help (NICHD) to
   facilitate the implementation of Inhaled Nitric save the lives of 2,000
   U.S. Oxide (INO) Therapy. Early work involved the newborns annually.
   investigation of the kinetics of NO2 formation from the NO used in INO.
   Dilute concentrations (<100 µmol/mol) of nitric oxide have shown
   dramatic results as a pulmonary vasodilator in some newborn patients
   when inhaled in oxygen via a ventilator. However once the nitric oxide
   is mixed with oxygen, the clock starts for the spontaneous formation of
   nitrogen dioxide. Accurate measurement of nitrogen dioxide is important
   because nitrogen dioxide (>5 µmol/mol) is considered detrimental -
   possibly leading to pulmonary edema and other negative consequences.
   Based on the NIST data it was concluded that at anticipated dwell times
   of <0.5 s, no significant levels of the harmful NO2 should reach the
   patient during treatment. At a workshop held at NIST last year, several
   of both types of instruments used for NO/NO2 monitoring
   (chemiluminescence-based and electrochemical-based devices) were found
   to measure NO and NO2 inaccurately under high oxygen conditions. NIST
   developed the primary standards that provide the accuracy base for
   these measurements and support the production of the necessary
   standards by a commercial specialty gas company of NTRM gas mixtures
   that are used to calibrate these monitoring devices. At the request of
   the NICHD NIST developed a NIST Traceable Reference Material (NTRM) at
   85 µmol/mol NO in nitrogen. The methodology developed at NIST to
   simulate and deliver INO ventilator circuit mixtures of known
   concentrations was also used to evaluate the accuracy of redesigned
   monitoring devices in measuring NO and NO2 and also was used to
   investigate possible biases due to oxygen quenching. 48 NIST's role now
   is to serve on ASTM Based on the NIST research, nitric oxide,
   subcommittee F29.1.11 working with FDA which helps babies breathe
   easier, was anesthesiologists, medical doctors, and INO approved as a
   drug by the FDA in December 1999. Currently, NIST and the medical
   device manufacturers on a device FDA are working with doctors and
   acceptance "standard" which when followed will instrument manufacturers
   to develop facilitate FDA device approval. NIST provides written
   protocols and standards so that input to NO and NO2 performance tests
   for gauging new INO devices can gain FDA approval. accuracy and the
   negative effects of interfering Once the devices are approved it is
   anesthesia gases. expected that this therapy will be commonplace in
   hospital neonatal care units. Cloning, Expression, and Characterization
   of Chorismate Mutase from Mycobacterium Tuberculosis P. Reddy (831)
   Mycobacterium tuberculosis genome sequence revealed a gene for
   chorismate mutase. Chorismate mutase is present only in bacterial and
   lower eukaryotic systems but is absent in higher eukaryotes. Hence,
   this enzyme is a popular target in metabolic engineering and drug
   development. It is intriguing to determine the biochemical properties
   and three- dimensional structure of chorismate mutase in M.
   tuberculosis. Chorismate mutase I gene was amplified by polymerase
   chain reaction (PCR). The primers for PCR amplification included NdeI
   and BamHI restriction endonuclease recognition sequences at the 5' and
   3' ends, respectively. Amplified product was digested with the
   restriction enzymes, and the gene was cloned into a similarly digested
   pRE1 protein expression vector. A recombinant plasmid was introduced
   into E. coli strain MZI for protein expression. Expressed chorismate
   mutase was purified to homogeneity, and the enzymatic properties were
   studied. Chorismate mutase catalyzes the pericyclic rearrangement of
   chorismate to prephanate, which can be converted to either tyrosine or
   phenylalanine. We investigated the functional nature of chorismate
   mutase from M. tuberculosis. Chorismate mutase is a 199 amino acid
   protein with an amino terminal signal sequence that is cleaved from the
   mature protein. The role of the signal sequence remains to be
   investigated. The enzyme has no associated activity for either
   prephanate dehydratase or prephanate dehydrogenase. Therefore,
   chorismate mutase from M. tuberculosis belongs to monofunctional class
   mutases. Preliminary structural characterization revealed that this
   enzyme belongs to monofunctional chorismate mutases but differs in
   structural diversity having only alpha helices in contrast to B.
   subtilis chorismate mutase which is also monofunctional containing
   alpha helices and beta strands. We will determine the three dimensional
   structure of chorismate mutase from M. tuberculosis, and design small
   molecule inhibitors, and test for inhibition of chorismate mutase
   activity. This research will revolutionize drug discovery for M.
   tuberculosis. 49 Nutritional Standards Methods and Standards to Support
   Nutritional Labeling of Food Products K.E. Sharpless, J. Brown Thomas,
   S.A. Margolis, B.C. Nelson, C.S. Phinney, and L.J. Wood (839) The
   Nutrition Labeling and Education Act requires that specific nutritional
   information be provided on all processed foods sold in the U.S. In a
   1996 study by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the accuracy of
   label information ranged from 98% to 54% for nutrients for which
   labeling is required. As more food-matrix SRMs become available, label
   accuracy should improve when the food and nutrition communities employ
   these SRMs in their analyses. New Food SRMs in the Certification
   Process for FY 2000 SRM 2384 Baking Chocolate  Sector 2  highest
   priority The first reference material available from NIST with values
   assigned for caffeine, theobromine, and catechins. SRM 2385 Spinach
   Sector 7 To replace existing freeze-dried, finely ground SRMs with more
   natural material. SRM 1946, Lake Superior Fish Tissue  Junction of
   sectors 4,8, and 9 In addition to the analytes of nutritional interest,
   this material will be certified for toxic Association of Official
   Analytical Chemists trace metals, polychlorinated biphenyls, (AOAC)
   International has developed a nine- pesticides, and methylmercury.
   sectored triangle in which foods are positioned based on their fat,
   protein, and carbohydrate content. AOAC's belief is that one or two
   reference materials within each sector should be representative of
   other foods within that sector and could be used for quality assurance
   and method validation when analyzing those other foods. High priority
   needs that have been identified as a result of a workshop included SRMs
   for aflatoxins and allergens such as peanut protein. (Foods must be
   labeled if they contain  or may contain  unexpected allergens.
   Permissible levels of aflatoxins are also regulated.) A peanut butter
   SRM would address the needs for aflatoxin and allergenic peanut protein
   reference materials as well as providing a reference material in sector
   3 of the AOAC triangle, which is not occupied by any other SRMs. 50 The
   Micronutrients Measurement Quality Assurance Program J. Brown Thomas,
   D.L. Duewer, S.A. Margolis, K.E. Sharpless (839), and M.C. Kline (831)
   The Micronutrients Measurement Quality Assurance (QA) Program was
   organized to support measurement technology for selected fat- and
   water-soluble vitamins and carotenoids in human serum and plasma. It
   was initiated in 1984 as part of investigations supported by the
   National Cancer Institute (NCI) Division of Cancer Prevention and
   Control to study the possible role of these analytes in reducing the
   risk of developing certain types of cancers and diseases. Today it is
   "the only QA program available for the fat-soluble vitamins and
   carotenoids" and currently includes more than 60 laboratories
   worldwide. NIST provides laboratories with the tools for Micronutrients
   Measurement QA Program comparability assessment through use of
   Comparison Exercise (from 1986 to 2000) interlaboratory comparison
   studies, Standard Reference Materials (SRMs) and control materials, and
   methods development and validation. Serum-based samples with assigned
   values for the target analytes and performance-evaluation standards are
   distributed by NIST to laboratories for analysis. NIST staff provide
   the laboratories with technical feedback concerning their performance
   as well as suggestions for methods development and refinement. The
   results from As a result of the QA program, the accuracy the comparison
   studies are used to establish a of laboratory measurements resulting in
   increased interlaboratory comparability for laboratory performance
   database, which is retinol, !-tocopherol, and "-carotene has used to
   help laboratories to improve their improved substantially over time
   (see figure). measurement comparability and to obtain The average
   estimated coefficient of variation reliable data needed to make
   accurate clinical for retinol and !-tocopherol has been and health-care
   decisions approximately 5% for the past five years and about #10% for
   "-carotene for that same period of time. DNA-Based Measurements
   Standardization of Trinucleotide Repeat Measure K.L. Richie, D.H. Atha,
   and C.D. O'Connell (831) CSTL provides the clinical diagnostics
   community with accurate protocols and measurements for the detection of
   genetic disease. The Fragile X disease system used in this study
   requires the accurate quantitation of triplet repeats that confer
   important diagnostic information. In this study, we focused on the
   triplet repeat causing Fragile X Syndrome for the following reasons.
   First, it is one of an increasing number of triplet repeat expansions
   associated with disease. Expansion of these repeat elements results in
   the interruption of gene expression and disease. Interruption of the
   FMR-1 gene occurs when more than 200 copies of the triplet repeat are
   present. Mental retardation is associated with this interruption in
   virtually all males with over 200 copies of the repeat, and females are
   affected to a lesser degree. Moreover, a "premutation" state can be
   detected when 50 to 200 copies of the repeat are present. Secondly,
   Fragile X is the leading heritable 51 cause of mental retardation;
   because it is inherited, accurate quantitation of the number of repeat
   sequences can be used for carrier screening in family planning in
   addition to diagnosis of disease and pre-natal screening. As such, we
   feel that our research will have the largest impact on diagnostic
   testing by focusing on the accurate quantitation and standardization of
   Fragile X measurements. PCR-based testing methods were examined and
   optimized to determine which protocols proved to be more robust for
   amplification of Fragile X repeat elements. We purchased a panel of
   Fragile X cell lines from the Coriell repository and have validated 5
   of these cell lines for Fragile X testing using slab gel and capillary
   separation systems. We have applied statistical analysis to these
   measurements determining inter-gel variation as well as inter-lane
   variation for repeat elements of varying sizes. The effect of PCR
   amplification was also measured by conducting the amplification
   experiments in triplicate. We Left: Gel image of fluorescently labeled
   fragile X gene concluded from these data that products from 5
   individuals with normal and pre- reproducibility is independent of size
   mutation alleles. Right: Electropherogram of the size but may depend on
   other factors such separations between these alleles, where 29 and 31
   as DNA purity, concentration, and triplet repeats are clearly resolved
   by GeneScan TM interruption of the repeat units. analysis. Recently, a
   PCR-based Fragile X assay was released in the marketplace. It is
   expected that some of the clinical laboratories will shift from their
   current assay systems (primarily home-brew) to this assay system.
   Future plans call for the evaluation of measurement sensitivity and
   variability of this new system in comparison to our current validated
   assay system. We will also maintain our collaborations with the
   clinical diagnostics community, providing them with accurate
   measurements and standards to aid in the development of guidelines to
   ensure accurate measurement for diseases associated with triplet
   repeats. The results of this research will be presented at the "Annual
   Clinical Genetics Meeting" in March 2001. Designing and Screening Small
   Molecules that Target RNA J.P. Marino, J.T. Stivers (831/CARB), K.A.
   Lacourciere, and M. Rist (UMBI/ CARB) Details provided in the
   Bio-Molecules and Materials section. Telomere Quantitation for Tissue
   Engineering P.E. Barker (831) and C. Jackson-Cook (Medical College of
   Virginia) Details provided in the Bio-Molecules and Materials section.
   Biomarkers for Quality Assurance and Quality Control of
   Tissue-Engineered Skin H. Rodriguez, P.E. Barker, C. O'Connell, and M.
   Dizdar (831) Details provided in the Bio-Molecules and Materials
   section. 52
