http://www.courtinfo.ca.gov/reference/documents/finalmjprept.pdf

   CALIFORNIA SUPREME COURT ADVISORY TASK FORCE ON MULTIJURISDICTIONAL
   PRACTICE FINAL REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS January 7, 2002 CONTENTS I.
   Introduction and Summary of the Report.
   .......................................................................
   ........5 II. Form of the
   Report.................................................................
   ...............................................8 III. Process for
   Developing the Report of the Task
   Force...........................................................8 A.
   Statement of
   Charge.................................................................
   ............................8 B. Members of the Task
   Force..................................................................
   ................9 C. Meetings of the Task Force.
   .......................................................................
   ........10 D. Public Commentary.
   .......................................................................
   ....................11 IV. Current Restrictions on Practicing Law in
   California...........................................................12
   A. Requirements for Admission to the California State Bar.
   ....................................12 B. Restrictions on the Practice
   of Law in California by Out-of-State Lawyers. ........14 V.
   Possibilities for
   Reform.................................................................
   .......................................17 A. Purposes Served by the
   Restrictions on Multijurisdictional
   Practice..........................17 B. Concerns about the Current
   Restrictions on Multijurisdictional Practice. ..................18 C.
   General Considerations in Assessing the Possibilities for Reform.
   .............................18 D. Particular Problems with the Current
   Restrictions.....................................................20 E.
   Possible Mechanisms for Reform: Advantages and Disadvantages.
   ...........................22 VI. Recommendations for Reform.
   .......................................................................
   ....................26 A. Focusing on Particular Categories of
   Practice.....................................................26 B.
   In-house Counsel Residing in California.
   ............................................................27 C.
   Public Interest Attorneys Relocating to California.
   .............................................30 2 D. Non-Litigating
   Lawyers Temporarily in California To Provide Legal Services.
   .......................................................................
   .....................................32 E. Lawyers Temporarily in
   California as Part of Litigation.
   .....................................37 F. Experienced Attorneys Moving
   to California from Another State. ......................39 G.
   Government Attorneys Located in
   California......................................................39 VII.
   Conclusion.
   .......................................................................
   .................................39 VIII. Recommended Actions by the
   Judiciary or
   Legislature.....................................................41 IX.
   Resources.
   .......................................................................
   ..................................................41 3 Acknowledgments
   The Supreme Court Advisory Task Force on Multijurisdictional Practice
   wishes to thank Senator Bill Morrow, whose legislation created the task
   force, and Chief Justice Ronald M. George, for his leadership in this
   area. A special expression of gratitude goes to the reporter and
   principal author of this report, Professor Joshua Paul Davis, Associate
   Professor, University of San Francisco Law School. His work in
   condensing the task force members' discussion, compiling their
   comments, and translating them into recommendations for this report has
   been invaluable. The task force also gratefully acknowledges the
   assistance of Judicial Council of California/Administrative Office of
   the Courts staff: Susan R. Goins, task force counsel, whose efforts in
   synthesizing materials on multijurisdictional practice and in
   summarizing the public comments eased the task force's work; and
   Camilla Kieliger, administrative coordinator, who arranged all task
   force meetings, distributed the report, and collected public comments.
   4 I. Introduction and Summary of the Report The California Supreme
   Court Advisory Task Force on Multijurisdictional Practice ("task
   force") was formed in January 2001. Its charge is to assess whether and
   under what circumstances attorneys licensed to practice law in
   jurisdictions in the United States other than California should be
   permitted to practice law in California. This issue, often called
   "multijurisdictional practice," is the subject of great debate.1
   Multijurisdictional practice is a significant issue for the California
   Supreme Court, which has responsibility for regulation and discipline
   of attorneys who practice law in California. Requiring admission to the
   State Bar to practice law in California serves important purposes.
   Chief among them is the protection of the public, particularly of
   consumers of legal services. To this end, the State Bar, acting under
   the auspices of the California Supreme Court, administers an
   examination designed to ensure minimum attorney competence, monitors
   compliance with mandatory continuing legal education, and assists in
   the regulation of attorney conduct and the discipline of attorneys.
   More generally, the State Bar helps to maintain the integrity of the
   legal system and to achieve the efficient and just resolution of legal
   disputes. Expanding the ability of out-of-state2 lawyers to practice
   law in California could run counter to these purposes. Nevertheless,
   many voices call for change. Today's reality is that the needs of many
   clients do not stop at state lines, and neither does the legal practice
   of the attorneys who represent them. The market for legal services has
   changed. Geographic boundaries do not have the same significance as
   they did when individual states were first charged with regulating the
   conduct of the lawyers who practice within their borders. Moreover, it
   appears that allowing out-of-state lawyers to provide legal services in
   California in some circumstances would not harm the public. One such
   circumstance would involve an attorney who is serving a sophisticated
   client, and is working in concert with lawyers admitted to practice law
   in California or is subject to regulation and discipline by California
   authorities. California could address the issues surrounding
   multijurisdictional practice in several ways. At one end of the
   continuum would be participation in a national bar. However, many
   incremental steps would have to precede creation of a national bar, and
   neither California nor any other jurisdiction could impose a national
   bar unilaterally, because each state determines who may practice law
   within its borders. A similarly expansive approach would allow all
   attorneys licensed to practice law in other states to practice law in
   California. Doing so, however, would mean that the requirements for
   admission to practice law in California would in effect be the lowest
   standard adopted in any other state, and that lawyers would lose
   substantial connection to the geographic 1For example, the American Bar
   Association (ABA) held a forum at Fordham University in the spring of
   2000 on multijurisdictional practice and has formed a commission to
   consider the topic. Similarly, the State Bar of California (State Bar)
   and other state, local, and specialty bars have established committees,
   task forces, and advisory groups to study the issue. 2For the purposes
   of this report, "out-of-state" lawyers refers to lawyers who are
   members of the bar of a state, territory, or an insular possession of
   the United States but are not members of the State Bar of California. 5
   community in which they practice. Such a change could make it difficult
   to protect consumers of legal services and could degrade
   professionalism by attorneys. At the other end of the continuum is
   preserving the status quo. This, too, seems unsatisfactory. The task
   force believes that current restrictions on practicing law in
   California should be relaxed where doing so will benefit consumers of
   legal services without creating any significant risk of harm to the
   public or the profession. The task force considered various options.
   None was ideal, and each had its benefits and problems. Ultimately, the
   task force determined that retaining the status quo was insufficient.
   Instead, it chose to recommend changes. These should alleviate many of
   the most troublesome problems with the current system and provide an
   opportunity to assess in the future whether additional changes are in
   order. The changes made as a result of this report should be assessed
   to determine how they perform in the real world. This will allow for a
   more informed determination of whether the proposals in this report are
   desirable and whether additional changes should be made. For this
   reason, as discussed below, the task force recommends a review of any
   changes to the current system within five years after their
   implementation. With these considerations in mind, the task force
   focused on particular kinds of practice in which the restrictions on
   multijurisdictional practice might be eased without threat to the
   public or to the integrity of the legal system. The aim was to ensure
   the highest level of professionalism; to permit proper oversight; and
   to benefit all consumers of legal services, from individuals with
   limited financial means and small businesses to large multinational
   corporations. The task force concluded that two categories of
   out-of-state lawyers should be allowed to practice law in California
   through a system of registration: 1. In-house counsel providing
   out-of-court legal services exclusively for a single, full-time
   business entity employer (e.g., a corporation or partnership)3 that
   does not provide legal services to third parties; and 2.
   Public-interest lawyers providing legal services to indigent clients on
   an interim basis before taking the California bar examination, under
   the supervision of an experienced member of the State Bar, at an agency
   meeting the definition of a qualified legal services project under
   Business and Professions Code section 6214 et seq. In addition,
   provided the range of permissible activities can be defined clearly and
   narrowly so as to protect California consumers of legal services, the
   task force concluded that the following two categories of out-of-state
   lawyers should be allowed to practice law in California through a
   change in the definition of "the unauthorized practice of law": 3 The
   task force recommends that an implementation committee consider whether
   a workable definition of "business entities" in this context could
   include public-interest organizations, unions, foundations, and other
   entities that might employ full-time attorneys to serve their legal
   needs. 6 1. Transactional and other nonlitigating lawyers providing
   legal services in California on a temporary and occasional basis; and
   2. Litigating lawyers providing legal services in California in
   anticipation of filing a lawsuit in California or as part of litigation
   pending in another jurisdiction. The task force also reached consensus
   on how California should define the circumstances in which out-of-state
   lawyers should be permitted to provide legal services in California.
   The task force recommends two basic approaches: 1. Registration.
   Registration would involve a process similar to admission to the State
   Bar of California, but without requiring an attorney to pass the
   California bar examination. It would permit an attorney licensed and in
   good standing in another jurisdiction in the United States to practice
   law in California on an ongoing basis without becoming a member of the
   State Bar. The task force recommends this approach for in-house counsel
   residing in California and employed by business entities. This would
   also be the appropriate approach for lawyers who have not yet taken the
   bar examination and who are working in California at an agency meeting
   the definition of a qualified legal services project under Business and
   Professions Code section 6214 et seq. 2. Change in the Definition of
   "the Unauthorized Practice of Law": Changing the definition of "the
   unauthorized practice of law" would allow out-of-state attorneys to
   undertake specified tasks without violating California law. This
   approachoften called a "safe harbor"would apply when an attorney's
   involvement in California is too brief or infrequent to warrant the
   time and expense that would be required for registration. The task
   force recommends this approach for transactional and other
   nonlitigating lawyers who provide legal services in California on a
   temporary or an occasional basis, as well as for litigating lawyers who
   are preparing to file a lawsuit in California or who are performing
   litigation tasks in California arising out of a case pending in another
   jurisdiction. The task force's consensus on creating a safe harbor in
   these circumstances was contingent on crafting narrow and clearly
   defined exceptions to the general proscription on out-of-state
   attorneys practicing law in California. If the California Supreme Court
   were to adopt the task force's recommendations, additional work would
   remain to be done. The task force did not undertake to draft the
   language that would give effect to each of its recommendations.
   Moreover, in some instances the task force reached consensus on a
   general approach but did not resolve issues and considerations
   necessary to its implementation. This report is the first step in the
   process of any reform. The task force recommends that the court appoint
   a committee to work through the many outstanding issues related to
   implementation of the recommendations in this report. 7 Finally, the
   task force recommends that any changes made pursuant to this report be
   subject to review within five years after their implementation.
   Further, mechanisms should be put in place to monitor and assess how
   the changes are working- for example, whether in-house counsel and
   public-interest attorneys are abiding by the restrictions on the scope
   of their conduct and whether the changes have ameliorated the problems
   they were designed to address. This effort could provide a firmer
   empirical basis for any future revisions to the restrictions on
   multijurisdictional practice. II. Form of the Report This report
   addresses the process that the task force used to develop the report
   and its recommendations (Part III), the current requirements for
   admission to the State Bar of California and restrictions on
   out-of-state lawyers' practice of law in California (Part IV), the
   considerations taken into account in developing the report (Part V),
   and the specific recommendations for reform (Part VI). Part VII
   concludes the report. Part VIII provides recommendations for the
   judiciary or Legislature to act upon based on this report in light of
   public commentary. Part IX is a list of resources. III. Process for
   Developing the Report of the Task Force A. Statement of Charge The task
   force was assembled by the California Supreme Court, at the request of
   the Legislature. The charge of the task force is to: Study and make
   recommendations regarding whether and under what circumstances
   attorneys who are licensed to practice law in other states, and who
   have not passed the California State Bar examination, may be permitted
   to practice law in California. The task force study should consider all
   of the following factors: (a) Years of practice in other states. (b)
   Admission to practice law in another state. (c) Specialization of an
   attorney's practice in another state. (d) The attorney's intended scope
   of practice in California. (e) The admission requirements in the state
   or states in which the attorney has been licensed to practice law. (f)
   Reciprocity with and comity with other states. 8 (g) Moral character
   requirements. (h) Disciplinary implications. (i) Consumer protection.4
   B. Members of the Task Force The members of the task force represent
   various perspectives on the law. They include civil and criminal
   litigators, private and public attorneys, lawyers and laypersons, and
   transactional and trial counsel, to name but a few of their
   distinguishing characteristics. This diversity of perspectives has
   assisted the task force in considering the interests of all people who
   might be affected by any change in the rules governing the
   multijurisdictional practice of law. The participants in the task force
   are: Chair: Raymond Marshall, McCutchen, Doyle, Brown & Enersen, LLP
   Cristina Arguedas, Cooper, Arguedas & Cassman Ophelia Basgal, Executive
   Director, Housing Authority of the County of Alameda Jerome Braun,
   Senior Executive, Admissions, State Bar of California Joanne M. Garvey,
   Heller, Ehrman, White & McAuliffe, LLP Andrew J. Guilford, Sheppard,
   Mullin, Richter & Hampton Rex S. Heinke, Greines, Martin, Stein &
   Richland, LLP Beth J. Jay, Principal Attorney to the Chief Justice,
   Supreme Court of California Drew Liebert, Chief Counsel, Assembly
   Committee on the Judiciary Hon. Elwood Lui (Ret.), Jones, Day, Reavis &
   Pogue Steven Nissen, Director, Governor's Office of Planning and
   Research Hon. Dennis M. Perluss, Associate Justice, California Court of
   Appeal, Second Appellate District Mike Petersen, Policy Consultant,
   Senate Republican Caucus 4 Sen. Bill 1782; 19992000, § 1. 9 Alan I.
   Rothenberg, Latham & Watkins Peter Siggins, Chief Deputy Attorney
   General, California Department of Justice James E. Towery, Hoge,
   Fenton, Jones & Appel, Inc. Gene Wong, Chief Counsel, Senate Committee
   on the Judiciary Diane C. Yu, Deputy Director, University Presidential
   Transition Office, New York University Reporter: Joshua Paul Davis,
   Associate Professor, University of San Francisco Law School Staff:
   Susan R. Goins, Senior Attorney, Office of the General Counsel,
   Judicial Council of California/Administrative Office of the Courts
   Staff: Camilla Kieliger, Administrative Coordinator, Office of the
   General Counsel, Judicial Council of California/Administrative Office
   of the Courts C. Meetings of the Task Force The task force met as a
   whole on six occasions to prepare this report. It met four times to
   prepare a Preliminary Report and Recommendations and twice more after
   public commentary to address the ideas and concerns that the public
   expressed. The time for circulation of the report and public commentary
   was from July 31, 2001, to September 28, 2001, although the task force
   considered all comments whether or not they were submitted by September
   28, 2001. On March 1, at the outset of the first task force meeting,
   the Chief Justice of California, the Honorable Ronald M. George,
   explained to the members of the task force that they were not selected
   to represent any constituency but rather to bring to the discussion a
   range of perspectives and experiences, all of which were to contribute
   to formulating recommendations that would serve the public good. The
   task force's discussions over the ensuing months honored this
   instruction. The task force began by considering whether California
   should expand the ability of out-of-state attorneys to practice law in
   California, paying attention to particular problems that result from
   the existing system. After extended discussion, the task force
   concluded that some change was appropriate, but that California should
   not, at present, adopt the broadest approaches to change comity or
   reciprocitygiven the many uncertainties about the effect such changes
   would have on the practice of law and on consumer protection. The task
   force then focused on specific mechanisms that could be used to ease
   the current restrictions on the multijurisdictional practice of law and
   considered how each mechanism could be applied to ensure that any
   change would be 10 practical and consistent with protection of the
   public from unscrupulous and incompetent attorneys. On each topic, the
   task force worked from the general to the particular, beginning with an
   open discussion of each member's views and then developing as refined a
   consensus as possible. Between meetings, the chair, the reporter, and
   representatives of the staff of the Office of the General Counsel and
   the California Supreme Court met to memorialize the conclusions of the
   task force in writing and to circulate that writing for commentary by
   members of the task force. Finally, the task force met to discuss the
   public's response to the Preliminary Report and Recommendations. This
   report is the result of the task force's efforts. D. Public Commentary
   The task force received 50 responses to its Preliminary Report and
   Recommendations ranging from the general to the specific. Commentators
   were equally divided between those who believed that the recommended
   changes went too far and those who believed they did not go far enough.
   A substantial number of respondents approved the changes recommended in
   the Preliminary Report. The task force benefited greatly in its
   deliberations from the many thoughtful comments from members of the
   public and is appreciative of the time and energy people invested in
   this effort. Following review of the public comments, the task force
   met and discussed possible changes to the Preliminary Report and
   Recommendations. The members revisited the issue of reciprocity. The
   task force reaffirmed its decision not to recommend that lawyers
   licensed to practice law in other states be permitted to practice law
   in California, provided those states confer a similar right on
   California lawyers. The task force was concerned that this form of
   reciprocity might create significant difficulties, not the least of
   which is the problem of how to treat states that would extend
   reciprocity to only those California lawyers who graduated from law
   schools accredited by the ABA. The task force members concluded,
   however, that the possibility of reciprocity in the future should not
   be foreclosed, and some members felt that the changes recommended in
   this report might provide an incremental step in that direction. The
   task force also declined to make its recommended changes contingent on
   other states offering equivalent opportunities for California lawyers,
   as some commentators suggested. The primary aims of the recommended
   changes are to reflect the realities of modern practice, provide for
   oversight, and promote the interests of consumers of legal services.
   The task force members concluded that these goals could be achieved
   along the lines set out in this report without significant risk to the
   public or the legal system. The task force felt strongly that delaying
   change until other states adopt similar provisions would pose an
   unnecessary obstacle to progress. The task force considered two similar
   comments concerning treating certain categories of lawyers as
   "second-class citizens." One was that in-house counsel might be placed
   at a disadvantage by a registration system, which would prevent them
   from retaining their right to practice law in California if they ceased
   to work for their employers. Some commentators felt that in-house
   counsel therefore might be placed in a vulnerable position: they would
   be required to move to California, but would not have the ability to
   practice outside the corporate environment. On the 11 whole, however,
   the commentators who might be subject to the proposal were in favor of
   the change. Moreover, such attorneys would be free to work for other
   entities as in-house counsel and could take the California bar
   examination and acquire the right to engage in all forms of the
   practice of law in California. A similar concern raised was that the
   proposed registration system for public-interest attorneys might
   suggest that indigent people are not entitled to the same quality of
   legal services as others. The task force concluded, however, that the
   proposed protections included in the registration system would address
   this problem. The task force was motivated by the reality that many
   people of limited means cannot secure legal counsel at all. Registering
   public-interest attorneys might to some small extent ameliorate the
   situation. For these reasons, after considering these points, the task
   force ultimately decided not to alter its recommendations regarding
   in-house counsel and public-interest attorneys. Beyond these general
   points, the task force concluded that several issues raised by the
   public commentary would best be addressed by the body charged with
   implementing the changes recommended in this report. These issues
   include, for example, the proper methods of prosecuting and
   disciplining violations of the rules recommended in this report; the
   proper definition of the entity for whom in-house counsel may practice
   by registration, including not only a corporation, but possibly also
   its affiliates, subsidiaries, and other related organizations; and the
   rules necessary to ensure that public-interest attorneys practicing by
   registration have adequate supervision. Finally, the task force revised
   portions of this report in response to comments. To the people who
   provided these commentsand, again, to all of the commentatorsthe task
   force is grateful. IV. Current Restrictions on Practicing Law in
   California A. Requirements for Admission to the California State Bar To
   be eligible for certification to practice law in California, applicants
   must meet the following requirements: (1) Be of the age of at least 18
   years; (2) Be of good moral character; (3) Complete the general
   education requirements before commencing the study of law; (4) Register
   as a general applicant or attorney applicant; (5) Complete the legal
   education requirements; 12 (6) Qualify for and pass or establish
   exemption from the First-Year Law Students' Examination; (7) Pass the
   California Bar Examination and the required examination in professional
   responsibility or legal ethics; and (8) Be in compliance with
   California court-ordered child or family support obligations.5 The bar
   admissions process begins with an applicant at least 18 years of age
   who has completed the general education requirement. To meet this
   requirement, before beginning the study of law, all general applicants
   must complete at least two years of college work or attain in apparent
   intellectual ability the equivalent of at least two years of college,
   determined by taking any examinations in such subject matters and
   achieving the scores thereon as are prescribed by the Committee of Bar
   Examiners.6 The applicant also must complete the legal education
   requirement and register with the Committee of Bar Examiners.7 To meet
   the legal education requirement, the student must graduate from a law
   school accredited by the Committee of Bar Examiners or approved by the
   American Bar Association or study law diligently for at least four
   years in another forum (law office, judge's chambers, or unaccredited
   or correspondence law school).8 Furthermore, the applicant must either
   take and pass the First-Year Law Students' Examination or establish an
   exemption either by passing the bar examination of another jurisdiction
   or by satisfactorily completing the first-year course of study at an
   approved or accredited law school.9 The applicant must also prove to be
   of good moral character, as established by an application to and
   positive determination by the Committee of Bar Examiners.10 Next, the
   applicant must apply to take, take, and pass both the Multistate
   Professional Responsibility Examination and the California bar
   examination.11 An attorney applicant who has been admitted to practice
   law in 5Rules Regulating Admission to Practice Law, rule II [as of Jan.
   1, 1997], at http://www.calbar.org/shared/2admrule.htm (all further
   note references to rules are to this source). 6 Rule VII. 7 Rules V and
   VII. 8 Ibid. 9 Rule VIII. 10 Rule X. 11 Rule VIII. 13 another
   jurisdiction and has been an active member in good standing of that bar
   for at least four years immediately before applying to the California
   bar may elect to take the Attorneys' Examination rather than the entire
   California bar examination.12 Finally, the applicant must be in
   compliance with California court-ordered child or family support
   obligations pursuant to California Welfare and Institutions Code
   section 11350.6.13 An applicant who meets all of these requirements and
   pays all appropriate fees is eligible to be admitted to the practice of
   law in the State of California. B. Restrictions on the Practice of Law
   in California by Out-of-State Lawyers Section 6125 of the California
   Business and Professions Code states: "No person shall practice law in
   California unless the person is an active member of the State Bar."
   (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 6125.) There are various exceptions to this broad
   prohibition against the practice of law in California by out-of-state
   attorneys. Five of them are: (1) by consent of a trial judge, (2) as
   counsel pro hac vice, (3) as a legal representative in arbitration
   proceedings, (4) as a foreign legal consultant, and (5) as military
   counsel. 1. What Constitutes "the Practice of Law" in California?
   Section 6125 proscribes the unauthorized practice of law in California.
   It does not, however, define "the practice of law" or "in California."
   (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 6125.) The California Supreme Court has defined
   "the practice of law" to mean "doing and performing services in a court
   of justice in any matter depending therein throughout its various
   stages and in conformity with the adopted rules of procedure."
   (Birbrower v. Superior Court (1998) 17 Cal.4th 119, 128 (quoting People
   v. Merchants Protective Corp. (1922) 189 Cal. 531, 535).) The practice
   of law includes "legal advice and legal instrument and contract
   preparation, whether or not these subjects were rendered in the course
   of litigation." (Ibid.) The California Supreme Court has held that the
   practice of law occurs "in California" when "the unlicensed lawyer
   [has] engaged in sufficient activities in the state, or created a
   continuing relationship with the California client that included legal
   duties or obligations." (Ibid.) 12 Rule IV. A modification to this
   rule, effective Jan. 1, 2002, will permit attorneys to qualify for the
   Attorneys' Examination if they have been active members in good
   standing of a bar in another jurisdiction for four years immediately
   before the administration of the California bar examination, rather
   than for four years immediately before applying for admission to
   practice law in California. 13 Rule II. 14 The court's definitions do
   not rely on the attorney's physical presence in the state. (Birbrower
   supra, 17 Cal.4th at 128.) Furthermore, the court rejected the notion
   that a person automatically practices law in California by practicing
   California law or by "virtually" entering the state through
   technological means. (Id. at p. 129.) The court ruled that practicing
   law in California requires "sufficient contact with the State" and that
   "each case must be decided on its individual facts." (Ibid.) The court
   stated: "This interpretation acknowledges the tension that exists
   between interjurisdictional practice and the need to have a
   state-regulated bar." 14 (Ibid.) 2. Exceptions to Section 6125
   Notwithstanding the broad prohibition in section 6125, California
   courts allow out-of-state attorneys to practice law in California for
   limited purposes. These exceptions to the rule are "narrowly drawn and
   strictly interpreted." (Birbrower supra, 17 Cal.4th at p. 130.) The
   exceptions include the following: a. By Consent of the Trial Judge An
   out-of-state attorney may be permitted to participate in an action
   pending in California by consent of a trial judge. (In re McCue (1930)
   211 Cal. 57, 67; 1 Witkin, Cal. Procedure (4th ed. 1996) Attorneys, §
   402, pp. 493494). b. Rule 983Counsel pro hac vice Rule 983 of the
   California Rules of Court provides for the appearance of an
   out-of-state attorney pro hac vice ("for this occasion"). This rule
   requires that the attorney must be a member in good standing of and
   eligible to practice before the bar of any United States court or of
   the highest court in any state, territory, or insular possession of the
   United States. In addition, a counsel pro hac vice may not be a
   resident of California, regularly employed in California, or "regularly
   engage[d] in substantial business, professional, or other activities"
   in California. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 983.) To be admitted pro hac
   vice, the out-of-state attorney must (1) make a written application,
   (2) be associated with an active member of the California bar who
   serves as attorney of record, and (3) pay a reasonable fee not
   exceeding $50. (Ibid.) c. Rule 988Foreign Legal Consultants 14The Court
   of Appeal in Estate of Condon (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 1138, upon remand
   from the Supreme Court to decide the case in light of Birbrower, noted
   the Birbrower court's use of the term "California client" and ruled
   that section 6125 does not apply to legal services provided in
   California by out-of-state counsel to non-California residents. 15 Rule
   988 of the California Rules of Court authorizes the State Bar to
   "establish and administer a program for registering foreign attorneys
   or counselors at law." Pursuant to this authority, the State Bar has
   adopted Registered Foreign Legal Consultants Rules and Regulations. To
   qualify for registration as a foreign legal consultant, an individual
   must be admitted to practice and be in good standing as an attorney in
   a foreign country for at least four of the six years immediately
   preceding the application, present satisfactory proof that he or she
   possesses the good moral character required for a person to be licensed
   as a member of the California State Bar, and must agree to a number of
   conditions on practice, such as being subject to disciplinary
   jurisdiction in California. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 988(c).) Upon
   registration, a foreign legal consultant may offer advice on the law of
   the foreign jurisdiction to which he or she is admitted to practice.
   (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 988(d).) The scope of representation that a
   foreign legal consultant can provide is narrowly circumscribed by rule
   988(d), which does not permit the consultant to appear as an attorney
   in any court or render any legal advice on California law. d. Rule
   983.4  Out-of-State Attorney Arbitration Counsel In Birbrower supra, 17
   Cal.4th at p. 133, the court declined to establish an exception to
   section 6125 of the Business and Professions Code with respect to "work
   incidental to private arbitration or other alternative dispute
   resolution proceedings." As the court explained, "Any exception is best
   left to the Legislature." (Ibid.) After the decision, the California
   Legislature enacted such legislation. Pursuant to California Code of
   Civil Procedure section 1282.4, rule 983.4 of the California Rules of
   Court authorizes attorneys admitted to the bar of any state other than
   California, or any territory or insular possession of the United States
   to (1) represent parties in arbitrations in California and (2) provide
   legal services in California with respect to an arbitration occurring
   in another state or a territory or an insular possession. In addition,
   a party to an arbitration arising from a collective bargaining
   agreement can be represented by any person, even if he or she is not
   licensed to practice law in California. (1 Witkin, Cal. Procedure (2001
   Supp.) Attorneys, § 402, pp. 7677.) e. Rule 983.1  Military Counsel
   Rule 983.1 of the California Rules of Court authorizes the appearance
   of a judge advocate not licensed to practice law in California to
   represent an individual in military service. California courts allow
   such representation if (1) the judge advocate is a member in good
   standing of a United States court or the highest court of any state,
   territory, or insular possession of 16 the United States and (2)
   retention of civilian counsel would cause substantial hardship. (Cal.
   Rules of Court, rule 983.1.) The changes this report recommends are not
   intended to alter the scope of these or other exceptions to the
   restrictions on the unauthorized practice of law. V. Possibilities for
   Reform A. Purposes Served by the Restrictions on Multijurisdictional
   Practice California's restrictions on legal practice are designed to
   require lawyers to become members of the State Bar if they are to
   practice law in California. In turn, this requirement allows the State
   Bar, under the auspices of the California Supreme Court, to regulate
   the conduct of attorneys and thereby protect the public and maintain
   the integrity of the legal system. The State Bar plays two roles in
   regulating how lawyers behave. First, the State Bar administers the
   admission process for the practice of law in California. The bar
   provides a screening mechanism when attorneys first seek admission: the
   bar examination determines whether an applicant has demonstrated a
   minimum standard of attorney competence, and the inquiry into good
   moral character and the Multistate Professional Responsibility
   Examination (MPRE) determine whether an applicant has demonstrated
   adherence to standards of ethical conduct and knowledge of the general
   principles of professional responsibility. The California bar
   examination is considered particularly rigorous. This rigor is intended
   to protect California consumers of legal services and may be explained
   in part because, unlike other states, California permits candidates for
   admission to sit for the examination even when they have not graduated
   from law schools accredited by the ABA. The State Bar, under the aegis
   of the California Supreme Court, also regulates the conduct of
   attorneys once they are admitted to law practice in California. This
   the bar does by various means. Ongoing regulation includes continuing
   legal education requirements. Disciplinary actions sanction and deter
   undesirable behavior by attorneys practicing law in California and may
   provide redress to injured clients and protection for other clients in
   the future. 17 B. Concerns About the Current Restrictions on
   Multijurisdictional Practice Various concerns have been expressed about
   the current restrictions on the practice of law by out-of-state lawyers
   in California. These include the costs of restrictions on free trade,
   the harm caused by denying clients the lawyers of their choice, the
   inefficiency of paying for the services of local counsel, the economic
   loss when corporations with large staffs decide consequently not to
   move to California, the difficulty of enforcing the current rules, the
   cost of other states not admitting California lawyers, and the conflict
   between the rules and the realities of legal practice today. C. General
   Considerations in Assessing Possibilities for Reform 1. Protection of
   Consumers The primary concern in the deliberations of the task force
   was that consumers (particularly unsophisticated consumers), the public
   at large, and the courts should be protected from incompetent and
   unscrupulous attorneys who are not subject to discipline by the
   California State Bar. For this reason, the exceptions to the definition
   of "the unauthorized practice of law" that this report recommends
   should be drawn narrowly to ensure that they do not compromise the
   ability of the State Bar to protect consumers of legal services in
   California. 2. Equal Treatment for Attorneys The task force considered
   whether California's approach to multijurisdictional practice should
   distinguish between various categories of lawyers, including litigators
   and transactional lawyers, in-house counsel and lawyers at law firms,
   public-interest lawyers and lawyers working for profit, and lawyers who
   graduated from ABA-accredited law schools and those who did not. 3.
   Statutory, Constitutional, and Financial Constraints on Disciplining
   Out- of-State Lawyers California's ethical rules currently apply to the
   activities of out-of-state attorneys when they practice law in
   California (Rules Prof. Conduct, rule 1-100 (D)(2)), but it is unclear
   whether the State Bar's disciplinary apparatus has the power or
   resources to impose discipline on out-of-state attorneys. The ability
   of the State Bar to regulate out-of-state attorneys depends, in part,
   on the current scope of the State Bar's jurisdiction and the proper
   method for extending that jurisdiction. Some states have interpreted
   the statutes that empower their state bars to discipline lawyers as
   applying only to members of the particular state's bar (e.g., West
   Virginia.) Even if California law governing professional discipline
   were to be interpreted similarly, an out-of-state lawyer might be
   subject to a criminal 18 prosecution or to a civil action over fees. In
   addition, an important practical issue is whether California has the
   resources to prosecute and impose discipline on out- of-state lawyers.
   4. Affected Interests a. Clients The primary concern is to protect
   consumers of legal services. Countervailing concerns are to give
   clients a choice in selecting the counsel they wish to represent them
   and not to require clients to pay for additional lawyers licensed in
   California. It may be possible to assess the permissible conduct of
   out-of-state lawyers based on their clients' sophistication about legal
   matters. b. The Public It is in the public's interest to have attorneys
   act in an ethical and competent manner, maintain the integrity of the
   legal system, ensure that lawyers' services are available at
   competitive prices, provide freedom of choice to consumers of legal
   services, and make lawyers' services accessible to people who need
   them. Moreover, the public may ultimately pay a premium for goods and
   services from corporations and businesses that pay higher attorney fees
   than they would in a less restrictive system. c. California Courts and
   the Legal System The California courts and legal system protect the
   public. Lawyers, as officers of the court, are integral to the
   administration of the legal system. The courts have an interest in
   maintaining competent, effective, and accountable representation to
   permit the efficient and just resolution of legal disputes. They have
   the ultimate responsibility to regulate attorney conduct so as to
   maintain the integrity of the legal system. Clarifying the rules for
   multijurisdictional practice will assist courts in fulfilling their
   supervisory role. d. Law Schools Law schools have an interest in
   training lawyers to practice in various jurisdictions. An expansion of
   the rights of California lawyers to practice in other states that
   extends only to those bar members who attended law schools approved by
   the ABA could have an adverse effect on law schools that the ABA has
   not approved. Distinguishing between these categories of law schools,
   however, would not be unprecedented. Nearly all states 19 currently
   require that students graduate from law schools approved by the ABA in
   order to sit for their bar examinations. e. Individual Attorneys
   Although the task force's focus was on the interests of consumers of
   legal services and the public, at times members and commentators cited
   concerns about the consistent treatment of lawyers. These included the
   question whether California lawyers would be permitted to practice law
   in other jurisdictions in the way lawyers from those jurisdictions
   would be permitted to practice law in California. Another concern was
   whether all members of the California bar would be treated equally by
   other states. f. The Legal Profession The perception of a loss of
   professionalism in the practice of law, a rise in incivility among
   legal practitioners, and the possible decrease in attorneys'
   willingness to perform public service have been topics of extensive
   discussion and analysis. The task force was concerned that a commitment
   by attorneys to act ethically and to work for the public good may
   depend, in part, on their connection to a particular geographic
   community. Expanding the ability of out-of-state attorneys to practice
   law in California may further attenuate the relationship between
   lawyers and the communities they serve and, therefore, may have an
   adverse affect on legal professionalism and on the commitment of
   lawyers to promote the public interest by, for example, providing pro
   bono assistance. On the other hand, the task force recognized that many
   communities of legal practitioners cross geographic boundaries and that
   many members of these legal communities maintain high professional
   standards and are committed to working for the good of society. D.
   Particular Problems With the Current Restrictions Many of the problems
   that arise from restrictions on multijurisdictional practice vary with
   the kind of practice at issue, as do the risks from easing those
   restrictions. After substantial discussion, the task force decided to
   focus on particular circumstances in which the current restrictions are
   likely to impose an unnecessary obstacle to clients hiring the
   attorneys of their choice. The task force identified the following
   categories as warranting particular attention: 1. In-house Counsel
   Working in California Various problems arise from the requirement that
   in-house counsel become members of the State Bar of California to
   practice law on behalf of their business employers in California.
   Corporations, business entities, and other sophisticated 20 consumers
   of legal services may be hindered in having in-house counsel move to
   California, or even travel on a regular basis to California, to serve
   their legal needs. Businesses thus may not be able to choose the right
   lawyer for a particular task. In addition, the requirement may increase
   businesses' costs, which ultimately may be borne by the consumers of
   their products or services. The requirement also may discourage
   businesses from relocating operations to California. This would be
   unfortunate because many businesses are sophisticated consumers of
   legal services and are likely to be able to screen the attorneys they
   hire without the assistance of the California bar examination, thereby
   protecting themselves from the harm caused by incompetent and unethical
   attorneys. Moreover, to the extent an in- house attorney works
   exclusively for a single employer, he or she will be under the constant
   scrutiny of the employer, and so no member of the general public is at
   risk of being poorly served as a client. 2. Public-Interest Lawyers  A
   Temporary Right to Practice Law in California Without Formal Admission
   There is great need to increase indigent Californians' access to legal
   counsel. Easing the requirements for able out-of-state lawyers to come
   to California and provide legal services to the indigent may help
   somewhat to alleviate this need. This change would provide one small
   step toward improving access to justice in California's legal system,
   and would have to be carefully crafted to protect the indigent from
   incompetent and unscrupulous lawyers. 3. Transient Transactional and
   Other Nonlitigating Lawyers Nonlitigating Lawyers Temporarily in
   California In a number of circumstances, the limitations on the
   practice of law in California by out-of-state attorneys may cause
   difficulties when the services of transactional or other nonlitigating
   lawyers are needed by clients, especially by sophisticated business
   entities. Clients may desire to have their out-of-state attorneys
   perform limited tasks in California. Hiring additional counsel licensed
   in California may be inefficient. So may be educating new counsel
   licensed in California, who in any case may not be an adequate
   substitute when the client has a longstanding relationship with an
   out-of-state attorney. In addition, clients located in California may
   wish to hire out-of-state counsel for their special expertise. These
   useful roles out-of-state attorneys could play if permitted to practice
   law in California must be balanced against the attendant risks for
   consumer protection. Greater guidance to out-of-state lawyers would be
   useful. California law does not currently make clear when the practice
   of law occurs "in California," the scope of permissible activities by
   an out-of-state lawyer in California, or the circumstances in which
   associating California counsel will make it permissible for an
   out-of-state lawyer to practice law in California. 21 4. Transient
   Litigators  Litigators Temporarily in California Out-of-state attorneys
   often need to undertake litigation tasks in California. The current
   rules regarding admission pro hac vice reflect the legitimate role
   out-of- state lawyers may play in pursuing litigation in California.
   The pro hac vice rules work well for litigation pending in California,
   in part because a tribunal is available to decide whether attorneys
   will be permitted to practice law and, if they are, to police their
   behavior. Those rules may not suffice in all circumstances, however,
   because they pertain to litigation that has already commenced. Often
   litigators have to begin their work in California before a case has
   been filed. Moreover, the reality of today's practice frequently
   requires lawyers to undertake depositions, document reviews,
   negotiations, and other litigation tasks in several states. California
   law does not make clear the tasks an out-of-state attorney may
   undertake in California for litigation pending in another jurisdiction.
   The benefits of allowing out-of-state lawyers greater freedom to
   perform litigation-related tasks in California must be considered in
   light of the risks that may be created for consumers of legal services.
   5. Experienced Lawyers Seeking Permanent Admission to the California
   State Bar Experienced out-of-state lawyers often express an interest in
   becoming members of the State Bar of California without taking the
   California bar examination. The key issue is whether easing the
   requirements for admission to the State Bar for experienced attorneys
   would solve any particular problems in the current system. 6.
   Government Lawyers Seeking to Practice Law in California An exemption
   from some of the requirements for out-of-state lawyers to practice law
   in California could have some salutary effect on the ability of the
   government to attract capable attorneys. E. Possible Mechanisms for
   Reform: Advantages and Disadvantages 1. Comity/Reciprocity Two possible
   mechanisms for allowing out-of-state lawyers to become members of the
   State Bar of California without taking the California bar examination
   are comity and reciprocity. If the State Bar of California extended
   comity, an out-of- state lawyer could become a member of the State Bar
   whether or not California lawyers have a similar opportunity in the
   state in which the lawyer is licensed. Through reciprocity, an
   out-of-state lawyer could become a member of the California State Bar
   without taking the California bar examination only if the lawyer is
   licensed by a state that provides an equivalent opportunity to
   California 22 lawyers. Under either mechanism, the other requirements
   for admission to the bar would typically apply. A condition for a
   lawyer to use either mechanism may be a certain number of years of
   practice. Comity or reciprocity could be achieved by permitting
   admission to practice law in California by motion. Considerations.
   Either mechanism would greatly expand access to the practice of law in
   California. Both may provide the benefits of a free market but also may
   compromise the ability of California to regulate the competence of its
   attorneys. In addition, these approaches might encourage undesirable
   behavior, e.g., lawyers who are unable to pass the California bar
   examination could begin their careers in jurisdictions with more
   lenient admissions standards and then relocate to California. Both
   comity and reciprocity pose problems. Comity would allow lawyers from
   other jurisdictions in the United States to practice law in California
   without ensuring that attorneys licensed to practice law in California
   have a reciprocal right to practice in those jurisdictions. Reciprocity
   would be difficult to pursue because California admits members to its
   State Bar who would not be eligible for admission to practice in other
   jurisdictions. In furtherance of a policy in favor of access to the
   legal profession, California allows a candidate to qualify to sit for
   the bar examination by various means, including by studying law in a
   law office or a judge's chambers or at an unaccredited or
   correspondence law school. In contrast, many other jurisdictions
   require graduation from a law school approved by the ABA as a
   prerequisite to admission to practice. These jurisdictions may refuse
   reciprocity to all California bar members. Alternatively, the
   jurisdictions may agree to admit only those members of the California
   bar who graduated from law schools accredited by the ABA. One possible
   obstacle to reciprocity, then, is that other jurisdictions will not
   admit attorneys to practice law based on membership in the California
   State Bar. Another possible obstacle is that California could refuse
   reciprocal treatment to other jurisdictions if they will admit some,
   but not all, members of the State Bar of California. 2. Registration
   Out-of-state attorneys could be permitted to register to engage in a
   limited form of practice in California. Permissible registration could
   be determined by the kind of attorney or conduct at issue, or some
   combination of the two, and could extend to: * In-house counsel
   employed by business entities in California; * Lawyers undertaking
   litigation tasks in California for cases that have not yet been filed
   or that are pending in another jurisdiction; and 23 * Lawyers providing
   a defined counseling role in California to a corporation or business
   entity in regard to a transaction. Considerations. Registration would
   have administrative costs, which could be paid through fees imposed on
   registering lawyers. Registration might be most practical when an
   attorney intends to practice law in California for an extended period
   of time, because it would then not be too burdensome compared to the
   benefits that registration would confer on the attorney, his or her
   clients, and the administration of justice. An advantage to
   registration is that it could require out-of-state attorneys to consent
   to jurisdiction and discipline in California. This could enhance the
   ability of California's bar to regulate their behavior. Moreover, a
   registration fee would provide the resources to pay for the expanded
   regulation required. Registration also could be applied to attorneys
   who wish to serve particular clients in California for a defined
   purpose or to engage in various tasks in California related to
   litigation pending in another jurisdiction. 3. Exempting Specified
   Conduct From the Definition of "the Unauthorized Practice of Law"
   Out-of-state attorneys could be permitted to undertake specified
   activities in California without being members of the State Bar of
   California. This change would require redefinition of when the practice
   of law is "unauthorized." (Birbrower, supra, 17 Cal.4th at pp. 127131
   (discussing the definition of "the unauthorized practice of law").)
   Examples of activities that the task force considered include: *
   Interviewing potential witnesses and taking depositions in pending or
   anticipated litigation to occur in a jurisdiction other than
   California; * Serving as in-house counsel for a corporation or other
   business entity in California that itself does not provide legal
   services to others; and * Providing counsel or legal services in
   California to a business entity in regard to a discrete transaction.
   Considerations. This approach is often called the creation of a "safe
   harbor." Perhaps the greatest challenge it poses is the need to ensure
   that the exemptions are clearly defined. Otherwise, out-of-state
   attorneys may be able to engage in an ongoing and sustained legal
   practice in California, thereby circumventing the requirement of State
   Bar membership. Defining the scope of the safe harbor is not easy. It
   is difficult to anticipate all of the tasks that should be permitted
   and to include them in a list. Moreover, a definition of a "safe
   harbor" that relies on examples or on a general description of 24
   permissible conduct will be subject to interpretation and may not
   impose meaningful constraints on the conduct of out-of-state attorneys.
   Consideration must also be given to the regulation and discipline of
   out-of-state lawyers practicing law in California. As a practical
   matter, when and how will out- of-state attorneys be held accountable
   if they violate ethical rules in California? One approach to exempting
   conduct from the definition of "the unauthorized practice of law" can
   be found in the ABA proposed amendments to the Model Rules of
   Professional Conduct, rules 5.5 and 8.5, which create "safe harbors"
   and provide for disciplinary procedures for multijurisdictional
   practice, respectively. The task force considered these definitions but
   did not choose to adopt them. 4. Defining "the Practice of Law" to
   Exclude Specified Conduct, or Defining Specified Acts as Not
   Constituting the Practice of Law A more precise definition could be
   given to "the practice of law." (Birbrower supra, 17 Cal.4th at pp.
   127131 (discussing the definition of "the practice of law").) The
   definition could exclude specified conduct by out-of-state attorneys.
   Alternatively, the existing definition could be retained, but specified
   conduct could be defined as not falling within the practice of law.
   Considerations. This task would be very difficult. Courts have
   preferred a flexible definition of "the practice of law." An effort to
   define "the practice of law" to allow attorneys greater freedom across
   jurisdictional boundaries may have the unintended consequence of
   permitting non-lawyers to engage in conduct that otherwise is limited
   to lawyers. 5. Exemptions by Category of Attorney Certain lawyers might
   be exempted by category from having to become a member of the
   California State Bar to practice law in California. Possible categories
   include: * In-house counsel working in California for a corporation or
   other business entity that does not provide legal services to others;
   and * Lawyers working for public-interest organizations, including
   legal services organizations. Considerations. Exemptions that apply to
   categories of lawyers, rather than to categories of conduct, may not
   adequately protect California clients, the public, or the court system.
   The State Bar may not have effective means by which to regulate the
   conduct of a lawyer exempted by category from the admission
   requirement. Issues to be resolved include whether the exempt lawyer
   would be 25 required to take continuing legal education courses and how
   the full range of sanctions for unethical conduct would be imposed
   (e.g., California cannot disbar a non-member of the California State
   Bar.) 6. Consortium of State Bars The State Bar could participate in a
   consortium with other state bars to create common standards for
   admission or perhaps an expanded geographic area in which attorneys
   could practice and within which they would be subject to common
   regulation and discipline. Idaho, Oregon, and Washington are going
   forward with an approach along these lines. Considerations. A
   significant issue is whether California would agree to accept the
   standards for admission to the bar established in other states. Joining
   a regional consortium of states that creates some form of reciprocity
   for licensing attorneys would not address restrictions on attorneys
   practicing law in California who are licensed by states outside the
   consortium. VI. Recommendations for Reform A. Focusing on Particular
   Categories of Practice The task force decided not to adopt comity or
   reciprocity as a means for expanding the ability of out-of-state
   lawyers to practice law in California. After lengthy discussion, the
   task force concluded that such sweeping measures are not appropriate at
   this time. By focusing on particular difficulties that arise under the
   current system, the recommendations in the report should provide
   solutions for the most pressing problems faced by out-of-state lawyers
   and their clients. Further, a more limited relaxation of the
   restrictions on practicing law poses less threat to the protection of
   consumers of legal services in California and is less likely to
   undermine legal professionalism by attenuating the ties between
   attorneys and the geographic communities that they serve. Moreover, the
   measures recommended in this report, if adopted, should provide
   valuable experience for assessing whether to adopt reciprocity or
   comity in the future. Finally, comity would not secure for members of
   the California State Bar the same rights it would afford out-of-state
   attorneys in California, and reciprocity raises difficult issues about
   the treatment of members of the California State Bar who did not
   graduate from a law school approved by the ABA. 26 B. In-house Counsel
   Residing in California 1. Points of Consensus The task force reached
   consensus that the requirements for in-house counsel who reside in
   California and who wish to provide legal services to a single,
   business- entity employer in California should be changed. Provided
   such in-house counsel are active members in good standing of the bar of
   another state, or a territory, or an insular possession of the United
   States, meet the criteria set forth below, and register with the State
   Bar of California, they should be permitted to provide legal services
   to their employers without having to become full members of the State
   Bar. The following restrictions would help to maintain the standards
   for the practice of law in California: a. Registration would not permit
   in-house counsel to make court appearances in California state courts.
   b. Registered attorneys would be permitted to provide legal services
   only to their business-entity employers. c. An attorney would not be
   eligible to register if his or her employer provides legal services to
   others. d. Attorneys would be required to register with the State Bar,
   pay registration fees, abide by the rules that govern the members of
   the State Bar, and submit to discipline by the State Bar. e.
   Registration would last only as long as the attorney is in the
   exclusive employment of the same qualifying entity. A change in
   employer would require a new registration. f. Attorneys would have to
   renew their registrations annually. g. Registered attorneys would have
   to satisfy the requirements to become and remain a member of the State
   Bar, other than the requirement of passing the California bar
   examination. These requirements would include participating in
   mandatory continuing legal education and acting in a manner consistent
   with a good moral character. (The task force did not reach a consensus
   on whether registering attorneys should have to achieve the score
   required by the California State Bar on the Multistate Professional
   Responsibility Examination.) 27 h. Business-entity employers would have
   to confirm that they employ the attorney seeking to practice law in
   California by registration. The task force also reached consensus that
   registered attorneys would be limited members of the State Bar and that
   all attorneys permitted to practice in California by registration,
   whether as an employee of a business entity or on any other basis,
   should be subject to all ongoing professional responsibility
   requirements in California and should have to participate in all
   programs designed to protect clients and the public, including making
   appropriate contributions to the client security fund. 2. Reasons for
   Change Particularly with the advent of the Internet and other
   technological innovations, the work of business entities often crosses
   state lines, and so, naturally, do the efforts of their in-house
   counsel. In particular, a lawyer employed by a business entity may have
   special expertise that will benefit his or her employer in transactions
   occurring in various jurisdictions. The task force recognized that
   out-of-state lawyers serving as in-house counsel for a business entity
   could be permitted to practice law in California without posing any
   significant risk of harm to the public or the legal system. Business
   entities that use in-house counsel typically are capable of assessing
   attorneys on their own. As a result, they have less need for the
   California bar examination to serve as a screening mechanism than other
   consumers of legal services. Registration would require in-house
   counsel to meet the other requirements for gaining admission to the bar
   and for remaining a member in good standing. The State Bar could
   regulate the conduct of in-house counsel much as it regulates the
   conduct of its members. The task force concluded that this change
   reasonably would meet the needs of some consumers in today's economy
   and the resulting realities of modern legal practice. Currently, some
   in-house corporate lawyers appear to engage in the unauthorized
   practice of law. The requirements for practice in California should be
   altered so that lawyers can serve their clients' legitimate needs, in
   ways that do not threaten the public or the legal system, and at the
   same time comply with the law. This reform is particularly appropriate
   because, to the extent an in-house attorney works exclusively for a
   single corporate employer, he or she will be under the constant
   scrutiny of his or her employer, and no member of the general public is
   at risk of being poorly served as a client. Some members of the task
   force also believe that permitting in-house counsel to practice by
   registration may help attract businesses to California. In reaching
   consensus the task force considered, among other things, the following
   issues: 28 a. As a practical matter, lawyers currently face little risk
   of discipline if they practice law in California for a business-entity
   employer without becoming members of the State Bar of California. b.
   The requirements to qualify for registration will have to be crafted
   carefully to prevent out-of-state lawyers from using registration in
   situations where attorneys might take advantage of vulnerable
   consumers. c. Creating general rules for multijurisdictional practice,
   rather than addressing the issue in a piecemeal fashion, may have
   benefits, but experience with gradual change may provide valuable
   experience for any broader changes in the future. After reviewing costs
   and benefits, the task force concluded that a change was appropriate.
   3. Related Issues Task force members identified various unresolved
   issues. These include: a. The Entities That Qualify for Registration
   Task force members recognized that some business entities are not
   sophisticated consumers of legal services. As a result, care must be
   taken to define those entities that should qualify to employ attorneys
   admitted to practice by registration. Further, sophisticated consumers
   of legal services other than businesses might qualify for registration
   as well. How should the "sophistication" about legal services be
   assessed to decide which entities qualify? Which entities other than
   corporations  perhaps public-interest organizations or labor unions
   might qualify? The task force recommends that an implementation
   committee consider whether a workable definition of "business entities"
   in this context could include public-interest organizations, unions,
   foundations, and other entities that might employ full-time attorneys
   to serve their legal needs. b. The Scope of Permissible Practice
   In-house counsel would be permitted to provide legal services only to
   their employers. Defining the scope of this practice can be difficult.
   In-house counsel may be asked to give legal advice to agents of the
   qualifying employer to assist them in carrying out their duties for the
   qualifying employer. Guidance will be necessary regarding when 29
   providing such advice is permissible. The task force recommends that
   in-house counsel practicing in these circumstances be permitted to
   provide advice not only to a corporate employer but also to its
   affiliates, subsidiaries and other related entities, but cautions that
   care will have to be taken in describing the "entity" to which in-house
   counsel may provide legal services. Finally, members discussed the
   possibility of in-house counsel's participation in litigation, but no
   consensus was reached regarding whether it would be limited to
   oversight of other attorneys or could extend to performing specified
   litigation tasks outside of court, perhaps including appearance at
   depositions.15 c. The Obligations of the Employer The employing
   institution would have some responsibility as part of the registration
   process. The employer would be required to inform the State Bar about
   all lawyers it employs who reside in California and who are not members
   of the State Bar. In addition, the employer could be required to
   provide a statement (perhaps under penalty of perjury) that registering
   lawyers are in fact its employees, to agree to inform the State Bar if
   and when those lawyers are no longer in its employ, and to confirm that
   it has made the informed decision to hire an attorney to practice law
   in California who is not a member of the State Bar. The possibility was
   also raised that the employer might have some exposure for liability
   incurred by its employees registered to practice law in California if
   those employees engage in the unauthorized practice of law in
   California, but the task force made no specific recommendation
   concerning this issue. C. Public-Interest Attorneys Relocating to
   California 1. Points of Consensus The task force concluded that
   out-of-state attorneys relocating to California should be allowed to
   practice public-interest law in California before becoming members of
   the State Bar of California. This exemption would be of limited
   duration. It would apply only to lawyers working at organizations
   serving the needs of indigent clients. Qualifying organizations would
   have to provide supervision to such attorneys to ensure that they are
   familiar with relevant sources of California law. Initially, these
   organizations should be limited to those meeting the definition of
   15These issues are not resolved by the law permitting admission pro hac
   vice because such admission is not available to an attorney who is a
   resident of California or who regularly engages in substantial
   business, professional, or other activities in California. See supra,
   at IV.B.2.b. 30 "qualified legal services projects" as set forth in
   Business and Professions Code section 6214 et seq. Qualifying attorneys
   would have to meet all of the requirements for practicing law in
   California other than passing the California bar examination. They also
   would have to be active members in good standing of the bar of a state
   other than California or a territory or an insular possession of the
   United States. 2. Reasons for Change There is a pressing need to make
   the legal system more accessible to indigent people, in part through
   increased availability of public-interest lawyers. At the same time,
   the task force acknowledges the limited role that it can play in
   satisfying that need. Any change in the rules regarding
   multijurisdictional practice is likely to have, at best, only a slight
   effect on the willingness of attorneys to work at public-interest
   organizations. More fundamental problems include the low salaries of
   public-interest legal jobs and the high cost of living in many parts of
   California. The task force emphasizes that people with limited economic
   resources should not receive less protection from incompetent and
   unscrupulous attorneys than other members of society. Nevertheless,
   providing a temporary opportunity to practice law in California may
   make public-interest legal practice more attractive to some able
   out-of-state attorneys. Requiring those attorneys to work under
   supervision and to satisfy all of the requirements for admission to the
   California State Bar, other than passing the bar examination, should
   protect consumers of legal services. The task force recognizes that
   other steps should be taken to increase the availability of legal
   counsel to indigent people in California. 3. Related Issues Additional
   issues relevant to temporary public-interest practice in California
   include: a. The Mechanism for Permitting Public-Interest Lawyers to
   Practice Law in California The task force identified registration as
   the appropriate method for permitting out-of-state attorneys to
   undertake a public-interest legal practice in California. The
   requirements would be similar to those that apply to out-of-state
   attorneys working in California as in-house counsel for business
   entities. 31 b. The Definition of "Public-Interest Legal Practice"
   Defining "public-interest legal practice" is difficult. The task force
   did not undertake this task because it concluded that the scope of
   permissible public-interest practice should be narrow, at least
   initially. Lawyers should be permitted to practice only for agencies
   that fall within the definition of "qualified legal services projects"
   pursuant to Business and Professions Code section 6214 et seq. and that
   have the capacity to supervise and will supervise attorneys licensed to
   practice in other jurisdictions. In the future, a broader definition of
   "public- interest legal practice" may be appropriate. c. Duration of
   Permissible Legal Practice The task force did not come to a firm
   conclusion concerning the appropriate number of years an out-of-state
   lawyer might practice law in the public interest in California before
   joining the State Bar. A period of up to three years may be
   appropriate. d. Restrictions on Supervision The task force concluded
   that qualifying institutions would have to provide meaningful
   supervision by an attorney with a minimum number of years of experience
   in California practice. The task force did not decide the method for
   ensuring appropriate supervision or set the minimum number of years of
   experience that the supervising attorney should have. D. Nonlitigating
   Lawyers Temporarily in California to Provide Legal Services 1. Points
   of Consensus The task force reached consensus that nonlitigating
   out-of-state lawyers should be allowed to practice law on a temporary
   basis in California, provided that any exceptions to the general
   proscription on such legal practice are clearly and narrowly defined so
   as to protect consumers of legal services. The general preference was
   to effect this change by creating a so-called safe harbor  exemption
   from the prohibition on the unauthorized practice of law for specified
   activities performed on a temporary basis in California by lawyers who
   are licensed to practice law in other U.S. jurisdictions. The majority
   of task force members were reluctant to require these out-of-state
   lawyers to register. Given the temporary nature of their time in
   California, the inconvenience and cost of registration may be
   prohibitive. The safe harbor would extend only to lawyers 32 who
   provide legal services in California temporarily or on occasion.
   Restrictions would therefore apply to the duration and frequency with
   which out-of-state lawyers could practice law in California. To be
   eligible for the safe harbor, lawyers would have to maintain an office
   in another jurisdiction and not be resident in an office in California.
   There are certain illustrative situations where an out-of-state
   nonlitigating lawyer would be permitted to practice law in California.
   The difficulty lies in determining how far beyond these examples to
   extend the permissible practice of law in California. Examples where
   the safe harbor could apply include (a) an attorney representing a
   sophisticated out-of-state client, as part of an ongoing relationship,
   in a transaction occurring in part in California; (b) a specialist in
   an area of federal law (examples include U.S. constitutional law and
   federal income taxation) providing advice to lawyers in California to
   assist them in representing their clients; and (c) in-house counsel
   licensed to practice law in a U.S. jurisdiction other than California
   and traveling to an office or plant in California to undertake discrete
   legal tasks for his or her corporate employer. In these and similar
   clearly defined situations, the practice of law in California would be
   allowed. An out-of-state attorney practicing law in California under
   the safe harbor provision would thereby consent to discipline in
   California. 2. Reasons for Change The task force recognized that
   clients often request an out-of-state transactional or other
   nonlitigating lawyer to come temporarily to California to provide legal
   services on a discrete matter. In many circumstances, such conduct
   poses no significant threat to the public or the legal system,
   particularly where the attorney is representing a client located in
   another state, has a longstanding relationship with the client, is an
   expert in the particular field of practice, or is working in
   conjunction with members of the State Bar. Permitting lawyers to
   undertake temporary nonlitigation work in California reflects the
   modern realities of legitimate legal practice. Existing restrictions on
   the practice of law in California at times may unduly burden attorneys
   who are seeking to provide useful services for their clients, in
   situations where hiring counsel licensed in California may not be
   practical. Transactional attorneys and other nonlitigating lawyers
   entering California on a temporary basis need better guidance on what
   they may and may not do. The limitations on the practice of law in
   California should be changed so that out-of-state lawyers can serve
   their clients' legitimate needs and at the same time comply with
   California law. Task force members noted that admission pro hac vice by
   a California court provides a means to engage in legal work for
   litigators. A similar opportunity to practice law temporarily in
   California should be afforded to nonlitigating lawyers. 33 In reaching
   consensus the task force recognized, among other things, the following
   issues: a. As a practical matter, out-of-state lawyers currently face
   little risk of disciplinary action if they undertake nonlitigation
   tasks on a temporary basis in California. b. Creating a limited safe
   harbor presents substantial difficulties. Unless care is taken,
   out-of-state lawyers could engage in the ongoing and sustained practice
   of law in California and circumvent the requirements for admission to
   the State Bar of California. c. Admission pro hac vice works because a
   court can both accept applications to practice temporarily in
   California and monitor the behavior of out-of-state lawyers practicing
   in California. No similar institution is ordinarily able to play these
   roles for nonlitigating lawyers. It is true that, pursuant to
   California Code of Civil Procedure section 1282.4 and rule 983.4 of the
   California Rules of Court, the State Bar certifies out-of-state
   attorneys who wish to participate in arbitration in California, and the
   arbitrator can then respond appropriately to any unethical behavior in
   the arbitration. However, the State Bar might have difficulty
   certifying all nonlitigating lawyers who wish to practice law in
   California, and no institution comparable to a court or an arbitrator
   would be available to monitor the behavior of most nonlitigating
   lawyers. After reviewing costs and benefits, the task force concluded
   that a change was appropriate, if one could be carefully crafted. 3.
   Related Issues The task force identified various issues that it did not
   resolve. Resolving some of the open issues would be essential to any
   effort to create a safe harbor. The issues include: a. Restrictions on
   the Duration, Frequency, and Nature of Activities The task force's
   consensus on the creation of a safer harbor for nonlitigating lawyers
   was contingent on a clear and narrow definition of "permissible
   conduct." The activities that out-of-state lawyers would be allowed to
   perform in California might be limited by duration, frequency, and
   type. 34 i. Duration of Permissible Practice Some limitation would be
   placed on the period of time over which an out-of-state lawyer could
   provide legal services in California. For example, an out-of-state
   lawyer might be limited to a set number of consecutive days or a
   certain number of days per year. Otherwise, out-of-state lawyers could
   gain the benefits of membership in the State Bar without meeting the
   requirements for admission. ii. Frequency of Permissible Practice A
   similar concern applies to the frequencyeither in terms of number of
   visits or number of clients servedwith which an out- of-state lawyer
   would practice in California. Some limitation would be necessary to
   prevent circumvention of State Bar requirements. iii. Permissible
   Activities The task force reached no consensus on the type of
   permissible nonlitigation activities that out-of-state lawyers might
   perform, although the consensus of the task force to recommend change
   in this category of conduct was contingent on adoption of a clear and
   narrow definition of any exception to the current prohibition on the
   unauthorized practice of law in California. One possibility would be to
   allow any activity reasonably related to the practice of a lawyer in
   another jurisdiction where the lawyer is a member of its bar. This
   approach would have the benefit of simplicity. However, such a broad
   definition could be extended to virtually any activity. An alternative
   would be to attempt to list the categories of activities that are
   permissible, although the list might be extended by analogy. Categories
   of activities might be listed by area of substantive law (federal
   taxation law, free speech issues arising under the U.S. Constitution,
   commercial transactions), type of task (consulting on taxation issues,
   compliance with environmental regulations), type of client (government
   agency, large corporation, legal services office), or some combination
   of the three. Alternatively, it may be possible to create a list of
   impermissible activities. One approach to this issue can be found in
   the ABA's proposed amendments to the Model Rules of Professional
   Conduct, rule 5.5. The task force did not 35 choose to adopt this
   approach, because some members thought it seemed too broad to provide
   the necessary guidance. The task force concluded that further
   examination of this issue is necessary. b. Consumer Protection, the
   Internet, and Advertising Several members expressed particular concern
   over advertisements by out-of-state lawyers that reach consumers in
   California, particularly over the Internet. This raises some questions:
   Should California require advertising lawyers to identify themselves
   and to disclose that they are not members of the State Bar of
   California? Would the state be able to enforce these requirements? If
   these requirements are practical, they may help consumers make an
   informed decision about whether to hire the lawyers. They also may
   assist the California State Bar and government entities to enforce
   California's disciplinary rules and its restrictions on the practice of
   law in California by out-of-state lawyers. c. Applicable Rules of
   Conduct The California Rules of Professional Conduct should apply to
   out-of- state lawyers providing legal services on a temporary basis in
   California. Some provision should be made to resolve conflicts between
   those rules and the rules of professional conduct in the other state or
   states in which the attorney is admitted to practice. One approach to
   this issue can be found in the ABA proposed amendments to the Model
   Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 8.5. Further analysis of this issue
   is appropriate. d. Discipline Out-of-state attorneys performing
   nonlitigation tasks in California should be subject to discipline by
   California authorities for the violation of applicable laws and rules
   of professional responsibility. A change in the laws defining the
   jurisdiction of the State Bar may be needed to bring out-of-state
   lawyers who are not members of the bar within its jurisdiction. Concern
   was expressed that without some registration process and attendant
   fees, the State Bar's attorney disciplinary system may lack adequate
   funds to handle its increased burden. 36 e. Limitations on the Clients
   Out-of-State Lawyers May Serve The suggestion was made that the safe
   harbor should not extend to work for certain categories of clients. The
   task force was concerned in
