http://www.nhtsa.gov/kids/

          Welcome To The National Highway Safety Administration's
                                Safety City
   Safety City Map - Links are provided below within the document and also
   at the end of page

   Back-to-School Supplies From NHTSA! Get safety items including cool
   Vince & Larry book covers from our online catalog. HINT: To get the
   book cover, select "Junior High Students" as the Audience.
   Vince & Larry Hi! Welcome to NHTSA's Kid's Page! We're Vince and Larry,
   NHTSA's crash test dummies, and we'll be your tour guides. Come along
   as we have fun visiting all of the hot spots around town. We'll learn
   lots of cool stuff, play some games and even see a movie. Just click on
   us anytime to return to our home page. Let's Go!

   Town Hall Someone has to keep this town running! Learn about current
   events, email NHTSA's administrators, read the letters of the week,
   browse the headlines in the Safety Town Gazette, and explore job
   opportunities in the transportation field.
   Safety School Could you be Safety School's next valedictorian? Take the
   "Safety Challenge" quiz to test your knowledge of safety trivia - see
   if you can outwit Larry and me. You could learn a lot from a dummy!
   Plenty of lesson plans and materials in the Teachers' Lounge for
   downloading.
   Larry's Art Gallery Sharpen up your crayons and have fun coloring real
   works of art in the Cyberstudio! Visit my Permanent Collection, view
   artwork by other cyber artists or print out artwork to color with real
   crayons.
   Theater Two thumbs up! Don't miss our smash hits and breakthrough
   performances at our local Theater. Ray Charles guest stars in the
   musical performance of 'Back Seat Baby!' Larry and I turn in
   Oscar-worthy performances and do all our own stunts! Break a leg!
   Garage Tune up before you hit the road at this friendly garage where
   you can download all the fonts and valuable plug-ins that make Safety
   City so exciting!
   Bike Tour Join us for an adventure! We'll look at helmets, reflectors
   and pedestrian safety when we tour Safety City by bike. We'll make
   several stops along the way and test your bicycle savvy. Watch out for
   the danger zones!
   School Bus Hop on board the big yellow School Bus and learn all about
   what special features make your bus the safest way to go! Learn to
   board carefully, and pay special attention when getting off. Maybe you
   could learn to be a bus driver someday!
   Research Laboratory What are those crazy scientists working on for the
   future of automotive safety? Rubber cars? Rubber people? Do you have
   the next great idea? Email our lab technicians and engineers and look
   at gobs of riveting data.
   Town Hall / Safety School / Larry's Art Gallery / Town Theater / Bike
   Tour / Garage / School Bus / Research Lab
   This page is Bobby Approved
   USA TODAY HOT SITE AWARD
