http://www.dnfsb.gov/pub_docs/oak_ridge/pr_20011113_or.pdf

   ANNOUNCEMENT For Immediate Release November 13, 2001 Washington, DC The
   Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Board) is pleased to announce
   the assignment of Dr. Matthew J. Forsbacka as a Board Site
   Representative at the Department of Energy's Y-12 National Security
   Complex (Y-12), Oak Ridge, Tennessee, effective December 2, 2001. Dr.
   Forsbacka will be joining Mr. Paul Gubanc, also a Board Site
   Representative. As one of the Board's two Site Representatives, Dr.
   Forsbacka will Dr. Matthew Forsbacka advise the Board with regard to
   the overall safety and health conditions at Y- 12, and will participate
   in the conduct of Board reviews and evaluations related to the design,
   construction, operations, and weapons activities at Y-12. He will also
   act as the Board's liaison with the Department of Energy, Y-12
   management, federal, state and local agencies, the public, and industry
   officials. Dr. Forsbacka joined the Board's technical staff in January
   1998. Dr. Forsbacka's previous assignments with the Board included
   serving as the Board's lead engineer for Lawrence Livermore National
   Laboratory and Sandia National Laboratories. Among his other
   assignments were safety reviews in the areas of nuclear explosive
   safety, nuclear criticality safety, and research reactor operations.
   Prior to joining the Board, Dr. Forsbacka was a U.S. Air Force Officer
   serving in a variety of technical assignments during 14 years of active
   duty service. These assignments included performing fundamental
   research and development for advanced space nuclear reactors,
   supervising test and research nuclear reactor operations, and providing
   technical support to the enduring nuclear weapons stockpile. He has
   also been an educator, teaching physics at the U.S. Naval Academy and
   nuclear engineering at the University of Maryland. Dr. Forsbacka
   continues as a major in the US Air Force Reserves, serving as a
   developmental engineer with the Air Force Office of Scientific
   Research. Dr. Forsbacka holds a Ph.D. degree in nuclear engineering
   from the University of Virginia and M.E. and B.S. degrees in nuclear
   engineering from the University of Florida. Dr. Forsbacka and his
   family will reside in the Oak Ridge area.
