http://www.treasurer.ca.gov/publications/doublebottomline/june2001.pdf

   In May 2000, the State Treasurer's Office The Double Bottom period in
   pursuit of the policy goals launched a major public policy initiative,
   outlined in these two reports. The Double Bottom Line: Investing in
   Line: Investing in California's Emerging Markets, to direct Investment
   Initiatives investment capital  through state California's Emerging
   programs and the State's pension and I $1 Billion in Home Loans for
   investment funds  to spur economic Markets - Ideas Californians
   Produces Strong growth in those California communities Yields for State
   left behind during the economic to Action One billion dollars has been
   commit- expansion of the past decade. The ted by the State Treasurer's
   Office to initiative builds on the Treasurer's 1999 purchase home loans
   made to low Smart Investments report which noted that the growing and
   moderate-income Californians or in low and moder- chasm between the
   "two Californias"  one of economic ate-income neighborhoods. The
   purchase of securitized success and one of struggle  will dim the
   Community Reinvestment Act loans pro- State's long-term economic
   prospects if vides new capital to lenders, allowing action is not
   taken. One billion dollars them to make additional loans to Cali-
   fornia homeowners. has been committed The Double Bottom Line report and
   policy initiatives mobilize the powerful by the State The purchase,
   through April 2001, of instrument of financial capital in new and $680
   million in mortgages by the State's Treasurer's Office innovative ways,
   consistent with the Pooled Money Investment Account highest fiduciary
   standards, to respond to to purchase home (PMIA), is providing
   competitive yields the challenges of widening economic to the PMIA,
   while helping to stabilize loans made to disparity. The programs and
   policies neighborhoods through increased low and moderate- outlined
   seek to achieve the "double homeownership. Standing behind the se-
   bottom line" goals of strong investment income Californians curities
   are Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, returns and broadened economic with
   combined assets of over $1 trillion. or in low and opportunity.
   moderate-income I Over $1 Billion Invested in Urban Since the launching
   of The Double Bottom Communities neighborhoods. Line initiative, the
   Treasurer's Office has As a member of the boards of the Cali- proceeded
   on a number of fronts to fornia Public Employees' Retirement implement
   the programs outlined in the System (CalPERS) and the California report
   (full copies of The Double Bottom State Teachers' Retirement System
   Line: Investing in California's Emerging (CalSTRS), the State Treasurer
   has urged Markets and Smart Investments may be greater investment by
   the funds in real found on the web at www.treasurer.ca.gov). estate
   development within California's urban communities, consistent with the
   The following initiatives, implemented since funds' fiduciary
   obligations. the release of these reports, mark a CalPERS has added an
   urban core invest- fundamental shift in state policies, directing ment
   initiative to its Real Estate Portfolio more than $12 billion in state
   public and has allocated $700 million, as of May program resources and
   investment capital over a three year 2001, in new commitments to urban
   real estate ventures 1 targeted to California. Also, CalSTRS has moved
   forward I Depositing Public Funds in Financial Institutions to create
   an urban real estate investment program result- Committed to Community
   Reinvestment ing in an allocation of $750 million. Both investment
   Assembly Bill 2708 (Wesson), proposed by the State programs are
   designed to give the pension Treasurer's Office and signed into law in
   funds market rates of return, while creat- September 2000, provides
   incentives for ing investment and economic activity in financial
   institutions to invest in eco- California's urban neighborhoods.
   nomically distressed neighborhoods by requiring State and local
   governments to I Investment in Business Enterprises in deposit their
   funds in secure financial in- Communities of Economic Need stitutions
   that are investing in lower In May 2001, CalPERS approved the income
   communities. California Initiative, a $500 million in- vestment fund
   targeted to businesses I Securitized Small Business Loans locating and
   expanding in underserved Through June of 2001, the State's PMIA
   communities  with the double bottom has purchased over $150 million in
   Cali- line goals of achieving risk adjusted mar- fornia-only
   securitized small business Under the new ket returns for the pension
   system, while loans with an emphasis on purchasing broadening economic
   opportunity. The system, projects are loans that have been made in
   areas of initiative has been structured to engage prioritized based the
   State that continue to struggle eco- strong private sector partners and
   to le- nomically. These securities provide the on public policy verage
   additional capital investment. State with a higher return than the
   over- objectives that target all PMIA yield and carry a federal I
   Increased State Deposits in California resources to lower guarantee.
   This program encourages a Community Lending Institutions continuous
   stream of capital for small The State Treasurer's Office has put more
   income communities, business lending in California. of the taxpayers'
   money  managed support community through the PMIA  to work here in
   Cali- Community Development fornia by increasing deposits of State
   revitalization, and Initiatives funds in community banks, savings and
   leverage public loans, and credit unions. The program I Extra Credit
   Teacher Home Purchase dollars. assures a yield to the State that is
   above Program the Treasury Bill rate, and deposits are The Extra Credit
   Teacher Home Purchase more than fully collateralized. The State Program
   was adopted in January 2000 deposits provide lenders with funds to by
   the California Debt Limit Allocation boost small business and home
   mort- Committee (CDLAC), chaired by the gage lending in California
   communities. State Treasurer. This program will help more than 4,000
   teachers and principals, From January 1999 through April 2001, willing
   to serve in low-performing the Treasurer's Office deposited an addi-
   schools, purchase a home. Extra Credit tional $2.7 billion in
   California financial provides a credit against taxes worth
   institutions. During the same period, the approximately $37,000 over
   the life of a number of participating lenders increased from 35
   30-year, $150,000 mortgage  with annual savings of up to 124. to
   $1,800. (Local agencies administering the program may 2 opt to provide
   low-interest mortgages in lieu of tax credits.) midst of urban and
   rural communities. These proper- ties  estimated to be in the tens of
   thousands across As of May 2001, CDLAC has awarded over $160 million
   California  not only pose environmental and health in funding to nine
   local jurisdictions which have matched risks, but also represent
   underutilized economic assets state-awarded allocations with local in
   local communities. homeownership assistance (such as assis- tance for
   down payments and closing Financing of environmental assessment costs)
   of at least $7,500 per homebuyer. and remediation is a critical step in
   returning brownfield sites to productive I "Double Bottom Line"
   Criteria Adopted use and in revitalizing economically for Low-Cost
   Local Infrastructure Loans struggling neighborhoods. The first The
   State Treasurer's Office advocated for round of funding for CPCFA's a
   new set of criteria for awarding more brownfields program will be
   awarded than $1.4 billion in low-interest loans in 2001. for local
   infrastructure projects at the Financing of California Infrastructure
   and Economic environmental I Community Revitalization Grant Development
   Bank, where the State Trea- Program Leverages Reinvestment assessment
   and surer sits as a board member. The new Capital rules reward projects
   that help revitalize remediation is Assembly Bill 779 (Torlakson),
   spon- economically struggling communities sored by the State
   Treasurer's Office and a critical step in and neighborhoods. signed
   into law in September 2000, au- returning brownfield thorizes the
   California Pollution Control I Awarding of Low-Cost Financing Based
   sites to productive use Financing Authority, chaired by the State on
   "Double Bottom Line" Goals Treasurer, to make grants to local The
   California Debt Limit Allocation and in revitalizing communities to
   create sustainable Committee, chaired by the State Treasurer,
   economically struggling community revitalization programs that adopted
   new rules for the allocation of leverage private sector and foundation
   in- neighborhoods. over $2 billion annually in low-cost fi- vestment,
   as well as State and Federal nancing for affordable housing, pollution
   funding. These grants will provide com- control, job creation, and
   student loans. munities with the capacity to access The new allocation
   rules replace a "first needed and available public and private come,
   first serve" allocation method. Un- capital resources. der the new
   system, projects are prioritized I Increased Aid to Community Health
   based on public policy objectives that Clinics target resources to
   lower income commu- The California Health Facilities Financ- nities,
   support community revitalization, ing Authority (CHFFA), chaired by the
   and leverage public dollars. State Treasurer, provides financing for
   health facilities and I Cleaning Up Contaminated Brownfield Sites
   clinics in California. The Help II Loan Program  which Senate Bill 1986
   (Costa), proposed by the State Treasurer's provides low-interest (3
   percent) loans to community clin- Office and signed into law, enables
   the California Pollu- ics serving low-income neighborhoods  was
   recently tion Control Financing Authority (CPCFA), chaired by the
   expanded with $10 million in additional funding. In State Treasurer, to
   finance environmental assessment and 2000, the Cedillo-Alarcon
   Community Clinic Investment remediation of brownfields  contaminated
   sites in the Act provided an additional $50 million to CHFFA to make 3
   grants to community clinics to expand health services for credits for
   the construction and rehabilitation of low-income families, recognizing
   that basic services, such affordable rental housing, replacing the
   previous as healthcare, are a key element of any ef- administration's
   lottery system. The fective strategy to bridge the growing gap reformed
   program establishes a point between rich and poor in California. system
   that, among other things, prioritizes projects in struggling neigh- I
   Tax Credit Program Reformed to Assure Affordability, Achieve Community
   borhoods where the housing is part of a Revitalization Goals
   comprehensive revitalization effort, and projects that meet a set of
   sustainable de- The California Tax Credit Allocation Com- mittee,
   chaired by the State Treasurer, velopment goals  for example, projects
   adopted a new system for awarding $550 within walking distance of
   transit, schools, parks, and shopping. million annually in state and
   federal tax I 4
