http://infocus.gsfc.nasa.gov/tech.html

                         Header: Technical Approach

     * InFOCmS will demonstrate the feasibility of Constellation-X HXT.
     * Image sites of cosmic-ray acceleration in young SNR.
     * Focusing optics for hard X-rays will yield the same enormous
       advances as Einstein, ROSAT and ASCA did for lower energy X-rays.
     * GSFC's foil mirrors are ideal for high throughput with small
       grazing angles.
     * CZT is high Z for high spatial resolution and low background.
     * InFOCmS demonstrates the full energy range of multilayer technology
       (20 to 80 keV).
     * Long duration ballooning greatly expands capability.

   The design of sensitive hard X-ray instruments has traditionally been
   very challenging. Faint sources combined with high background from
   cosmic-ray secondaries and cosmic diffuse emission have resulted in
   very heavy instruments with low signal to background ratios and serious
   systematic problems. Poor energy resolution has limited the value of
   spectroscopy, creating its own systematic errors. We are now at the
   fortunate confluence of three new technologies (multicoated foil
   mirrors, cadmium zinc telluride detectors, and long duration
   ballooning) that allow us to propose an instrument with focusing optics
   to produce direct arcmin images at ~100 mCrab sensitivities and
   superior energy resolution (~ few keV). This configuration achieves
   extremely low background (~2.5 counts/keV in a 12 hours) that for most
   known hard X-ray sources is negligible. Our collaboration combines the
   efforts of several groups, each with proven expertise in one of these
   critical technologies. We have carefully assembled the right team to
   deliver an instrument that can demonstrate the potential of these
   groundbreaking new technologies.

   By applying thin alternating layers of different index materials to the
   surface of a mirror, one can create an artificial crystal that will
   enormously enhance the reflectivity at high energies. This technology
   has been used to make normal incidence UV mirrors (Smith 1990). When
   applied to grazing incidence X-ray mirrors, it can provide focusing
   optics for energies up to ~100 keV. Focusing optics can produce the
   same enormous improvements in sensitivities at these energies that they
   have in the soft X-ray band. Since all the X-rays from an 2-arcmin size
   spot in the sky are focused onto a 4-mm spot on the detector, the
   background both from cosmic diffuse and detector volume dependent
   components are significantly reduced. Besides the obvious advantages of
   direct imaging for making pictures, it also facilitates the detection
   of point sources and elimination of systematic errors in many ways. By
   averaging over adjacent pixels, an accurate determination of the
   background can be achieved without offset pointings. Arcmin imaging
   eliminates all source confusion problems at these energies. The foil
   mirror technology developed by the GSFC and Nagoya groups is the only
   flight proven way to produce mirrors with the combination high
   thoughput and excellent smoothness (< 3 Å) required to make a efficient
   hard X-ray mirror.

   New technology cadmium zinc telluride (CZT) detectors are the natural
   choice for the focal plane elements. They are room temperature, solid
   state detectors with excellent energy resolution. The addition of Zn to
   the standard CdTe detector crystal reduces the room temperature leakage
   current, especially in large area detectors, that limited the
   usefulness of CdTe in the past. CZT with a pixellated electrode can
   achieve < 2 keV of noise. Pixellated CZT detectors with custom ASIC
   electronics have been fabricated by our collaborators at the University
   of Arizona for medical applications (Barber et al. 1997). With a 380-mm
   pitch, these position sensitive detectors provide more than adequate
   quantization for the 4-mm telescope point spread function. The high Z
   of CZT ensures that the photoelectric cross-section dominates over our
   entire energy range and that the energy deposit is localized to
   maintain the fine imaging properties. The high stopping power allows us
   to use thin detectors (2-mm) to minimize the volume dependent
   background. Anticoincidence timing is performed on the un-pixellated
   front-contact signal. The interaction depth analysis can be used to
   tailor the thickness of the detector at each energy to minimize
   background for optimum sensitivity as discussed in our first proposal.
   Since CZT produces high resolution spectra near room temperature, there
   are no consumables (such as LN2 for cooling Ge detectors) to interfere
   with long duration balloon or satellite applications.

   The very long focal lengths required by this approach can be readily
   accommodated by a balloon instrument. Only on a balloon gondola can we
   launch an 8-m focal length telescope as a rigid tube. Constellation-X
   and ASTRO-G will use deployable tubes to accommodate long focal
   lengths. Deployable structures seem promising for space flight, but we
   need an approach to demonstrate and develop imaging technology now.
   Balloon gondolas have been built that provide the necessary pointing
   accuracy and stability. We propose to model our pointing on a system
   developed in Germany for a far infrared telescope (Drapatz et al.
   1980). It achieved 5-arcsec pointing stability and accuracy. The
   balloon program currently supports flights of 10 to 20 days in
   Antarctica and NASA is committed to developing a new superpressure
   balloon capable of 100-day flights. Flights of this duration with
   InFOCmS could support major scientific breakthroughs.

                To see the literature references click here.

               To return to the InFOCuS Home Page click here.
     Questions or comments regarding this Web site may be sent to Eunice
                                    Eng.
                     Please include the URL of the page.
              This Web site is a service of LHEA at NASA/ GSFC.
             Our LHEA Technical Representative is Jack Tueller.
           To see the NASA Web site privacy statement click here.
             To see the NASA Web site warning banner click here.
