http://www.arnet.gov/Notes/

    Spacer Notes from the Administrator Return to ARNet Home Page
   Spacer

   Link to Notes from the Administrator Link to Federal Acquisition
   Regulation Link to the Virtual Library Link to Federal Business
   Opportunities
   Link to Professional Development Link to the discuss proposed rules
   Link to Committees and Councils



   Link To Contact Information for the Office of the Administrator

      On April 23, 2001, President George W. Bush nominated Angela B. Styles
      to be the Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy in the Office of
      Management and Budget (OMB). The United States Senate confirmed her
      nomination by unanimous vote on Thursday, May 24, 2001.
      Prior to confirmation, Ms. Styles was Counselor to the Director of OMB.
      From January to April 2001, Ms. Styles was in a temporary appointment
      at the General Services Administration's Office of Government-Wide
      Policy and Public Buildings Service. Prior to joining GSA, Ms. Styles
      was Counsel for the Washington, DC law firm of Miller & Chevalier. Her
      legal practice concentrated in the area of federal procurement law and
      litigation, including cost and accounting issues, defective pricing,
      procurement fraud matters, contract disputes and claims, contract
      drafting and negotiations, and compliance matters. Over the past
      several years, her practice increasingly focused on government contract
      disputes involving cost accounting standards compliance, cost
      allowability, and allocation. Ms. Styles' recent experience included
      extensive analysis of pension issues raised by the application of CAS
      412 and 413 to defense and medicare contractors. Ms. Styles has
      litigated contractors' claims against the U. S. Government before the
      Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals, the United States Court of
      Federal Claims, and the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal
      Circuit.
      Ms. Styles is an active member of the American Bar Association's
      Section of Public Contract Law where she recently served as Chair for
      the Legislative Coordinating Committee, and is a former Vice Chair of
      the Accounting, Cost and Pricing Committee. Ms. Styles has lectured on
      government contract cost and accounting issues, and is the co-author of
      an article entitled, "Confirming Environmental Cost Allowability
      Determinations to CERCLA's No-Fault Approach," 98-7 Government Contract
      Cost Pricing & Accounting Report at 3 (Fed. Pubs. July 1998).
      Ms. Styles received a Bachelor of Arts degree, with distinction, from
      the University of Virginia. She graduated, with honors, from the
      University of Texas School of Law, where she was an Articles Editor for
      The American Journal of Criminal Law, and was awarded the Order of the
      Coif distinction.
      Before entering the practice of law, Ms. Styles worked in Washington,
      DC as a legislative aide for Congressman Joe Barton and former Governor
      Will P. Clements in the Texas Office of State-Federal Relations.

                                Recommended Reading

   Link to Return to Top of Document Link to the Arnet Search Utility Link
   to the Site Map Link to the Evaluation Form E-Mail the Arnet Webmaster

   line at bottom of page

   Accessibility 05/18/01 OGP-CIO
