http://citrus.sbaonline.sba.gov/ada/

            Home for this Area Your Previous Location if Java OK

                           Return to SBA Home Page


               To SBA Home Page
                               Americans With Disabilities Act
                               (ADA)

                               Guide for Small Businesses
                               and Other ADA Information

        Some of the files below require Acrobat Reader to view them.
                           Download Acrobat Reader
     Get telephone or email assitance for accessibility issues from our
                                Answer Desk.

   SBA Outlines Initiative for People with Disabilities, Commits to Hiring
                                     300

                      Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)

   WHAT IS THE ADA? The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) gives
       federal civil rights protections to individuals with disabilities
       similar to those provided to individuals on the basis of race,
       color, sex, national origin, age, and religion. It guarantees equal
       opportunity for individuals with disabilities in public
       accommodations, employment, transportation, State and local
       government services, and telecommunications.
       ADA GUIDE FOR SMALL BUSINESSES. This 15-page illustrated guide
       presents an overview of some basic ADA requirements for small
       businesses that provide goods and services to the public. It
       provides guidance on how to make their services accessible and how
       tax credits and deductions may be used to offset specific costs.

               ADA Guide for Small Businesses (PDF) or (Html)
       SECTION 508 OF THE REHABILITATION ACT: In 1998, Congress amended
       the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and strengthened provisions covering
       access to information in the Federal sector for people with
       disabilities. As amended, Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act
       requires access to the Federal government's electronic and
       information technology. The law applies to all Federal agencies
       when they develop, procure, maintain, or use electronic and
       information technology. Federal agencies must ensure that this
       technology is accessible to employees and the public, including
       persons with disabilities. The law directs the Access Board to
       develop access standards that will become part of the Federal
       procurement regulations. See more on the Federal IT Accessibility
       Initiative web site at http://www.section508.gov.
       SECTION 508 STANDARDS have been issued.
       OTHER KEY ADA DOCUMENTS:

   How to File Complaints: Complaints about violations of title I
       (employment) by units of State and local government or by private
       employers should be filed with the Equal Employment Opportunity
       Commission. Call 800-669-4000 (voice) or 800-669-6820 (TDD) to
       reach the field office in your area. Complaints about violations of
       title II by units of State and local government or violations of
       title III by public accommodations and commercial facilities
       (private businesses and non-profit service providers) should be
       filed with the Department of Justice. Please send complaints to:
       Disability Rights Section
       Civil Rights Division
       U.S. Department of Justice
       Post Office Box 66738
       Washington, DC 20035-6738
       ADA Information Services
       . A list with the telephone numbers and Internet addresses of
       Federal agencies and other organizations that provide information
       and technical assistance to the public about the ADA.
       The Workforce Investment Act of 1998 amended Section 508 of the
       Rehabilitation Act of 1973.
       U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and U.S. Department of
       Justice Civil Rights Division Questions and Answers
       Free Department of Justice ADA Regulations and Technical Assistance
       Materials
       Public Law 101-336. Text of the Americans with Disabilities Act,
       Public Law 336 of the 101st Congress, enacted July 26, 1990. The
       ADA prohibits discrimination and ensures equal opportunity for
       persons with disabilities in employment, State and local government
       services, public accommodations, commercial facilities, and
       transportation. It also mandates the establishment of TDD/telephone
       relay services.

   SBA PDF DOCUMENT ACCESSIBILITY (In limited cases, we only have a PDF
   version of certain documents - below are links to areas where we have
   converted the PDF to Html for you. If an alternative view is offered
   such as text or html, we have not converted the PDF document. Further,
   PDF forms do not convert for acceptable viewing. When the technology
   gets better in this latter area we will bring it to you):

   SBA'S Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs)
       SBA Annual and Accountability Reports
       Microenterprise Development
       Microenterprise Program Surveys
       Office of Advocacy - Economic Research and Statistics
       Office of Advocacy - The Small Business Advocate Newsletter
       Financing Your Business - "PRIME" Program Announcements
       SBA FY 2001 - FY 2006 Strategic Plan

   ASSISTIVE TECHNOLOGY: Shareware and Freeware

    1. Virtual Assistive Technology Center - Windows Shareware and
       Freeware for People with Disabilities
    2. Virtual Assistive Technology Center - Mac Shareware and Freeware
       for People with Disabilities
    3. Virtual Assistive Technology Center - DOS Shareware and Freeware
       for People with Disabilities
    4. Macintosh Disability Shareware and Freeware
    5. Adaptive Technology for the Visually Impaired - Windows and MAC
    6. Free Mac Programs which Assist People with Disabilities
    7. Cheap Mac Shareware for People with Disabilities
    8. Screen Magnifiers Home Page - Windows and MAC

                            ADA Related Sites...
                  [Dept of Justice ADA Home Page__________]
                               Pick and Submit

         | Privacy | Viewing Utilities | Web Comments | Text Only |

                           *Last Modified: 6-25-01
