http://enduse.lbl.gov/SharedData/IT/Forbescritique991209.pdf

    Jonathan G. Koomey, Staff Scientist 1 Cyclotron Road, MS 90-4000
   Berkeley, California 94720 Energy Analysis Department Tel: 510/486-5974
   Fax: 510/486- 4247 e-mail: JGKoomey@lbl.gov MEMORANDUM (LBNL-44698)
   December 9, 1999 To: Skip Laitner, EPA Office of Atmospheric Programs
   From: Jonathan Koomey, Kaoru Kawamoto, Bruce Nordman, Mary Ann Piette,
   and Richard E. Brown RE: Initial comments on "The Internet Begins with
   Coal" cc: Mark P. Mills, Rob Bradley, Amory Lovins, Joe Romm, Alan
   Meier, Alan Sanstad, and Erik Brynjolfsson Download this memo and
   related data at: http://enduse.lbl.gov/projects/infotech.html SHORT
   SUMMARY This memo explores the assumptions in Mark P. Mills' report
   titled The Internet Begins with Coal that relate to current electricity
   use "associated with the Internet". We find that Mills has
   significantly overestimated electricity use, in some cases by more than
   an order of magnitude. We adjust his estimates to reflect measured data
   and more accurate assumptions, which reduces Mills' overall estimate of
   total Internet-related electricity use by about a factor of eight.
   INTRODUCTION At your request, we have begun to explore some of the
   assumptions in Mark P. Mills' report titled The Internet Begins with
   Coal (Mills 1999). In this memo, we restrict our comments to a few key
   assumptions in Part 7 of Mills' report, where he estimated total
   current electricity demand associated with the Internet. We do not
   address in this memo any of Mills' assertions about future growth of
   Internet electricity use, nor do we address any comments he made about
   the types of electricity supply technologies that would support any
   such increases in electricity demand. As more data become available, we
   expect refine the estimates in this memo, which must at this time be
   treated as preliminary. The existence of the Mills report highlights
   the critical need for comprehensive data on electricity used by office
   equipment and associated network related-hardware. The last time such a
   comprehensive report was done (Koomey et al. 1995) was prior to the
   Internet becoming such an important force in the U.S. economy. That
   report did not address energy used by network hardware, but it did deal
   explicitly with stocks, energy use per unit, and operating hours to
   estimate total electricity used by commercial sector office equipment
   in the U.S. It compiled measured data on many of these parameters,
   which guided the creation of the scenarios generated in that report.
   This kind of comprehensive analysis, updated to reflect 1 recent market
   developments and encompassing a broader scope, would resolve many
   lingering questions on this issue. From a methodological perspective,
   it is problematic to assess only one portion (e.g., the Internet
   portion) of electricity used by office equipment in the U.S. In the
   absence of a complete accounting for all office equipment (as found in
   the Koomey et al. report), the accuracy of the calculations cannot rely
   on the checks and balances that such a complete accounting would
   enforce. For example, the total number of personal computers (PCs) is
   known with much more precision than the number of PCs associated with
   the Internet, so trying to estimate the latter without first estimating
   the former will yield a much less certain result. There are difficult
   boundary issues in this assessment as well.1 Mills chose to estimate
   the electricity used by the Internet and associated equipment, but he
   did not attempt to assess the effects of structural changes in the
   economy that are enabled by the existence of the Internet. These
   structural changes will almost certainly affect electricity and energy
   use. Without assessing the effect of these changes, the net effect of
   the Internet cannot be calculated, yet that is really what we care
   about. Given the large productivity benefits induced by computer
   hardware when properly used, it is plausible to speculate that these
   changes will be large enough to matter. Mills also makes the assumption
   that all usage associated with the Internet is incremental. Instead it
   is actually more likely that at least some of this usage is
   substituting for other energy consuming functions that preceded the
   Internet (the Internet is expanding uses for the PC at the expense of
   other energy-using devices). Private computer networks and fax
   machines, for example, are increasingly being displaced by the
   Internet. Computer use is substituting for other forms of
   entertainment, like TV. Even voice communications (formerly the
   province of the telephone network) are being carried over the net. Such
   displacement effects represent another difficult boundary issue not
   treated in Mills' analysis. In addition, the definition of which
   hardware is "associated with the Internet" is at best an imprecise one.
   Is a home computer "associated with the Internet"? People might use it
   for writing, for doing calculations, for analyzing personal finances,
   for creating party invitations, or for accessing the net. Does that
   mean that ALL of its energy use can be attributed to the Internet, or
   just a part? If just a portion, how much should be allocated to
   Internet use? Many of the reasons for owning a computer are independent
   of the Internet, and taken together justify the purchase of a computer.
   The same conclusion holds even more strongly for PCs in offices, since
   there are many reasons beyond Internet access for companies to invest
   in PCs. This kind of arbitrary allocation makes for calculations that
   are at best limited in usefulness. In some sense, Mills is asking the
   wrong question by focusing on the Internet-related portion of
   electricity use by office equipment. Future studies should analyze
   total electricity used by this equipment, and not focus on what is
   Internet related, because these boundary issues are so difficult to
   resolve. We turn now to specific assumptions that Mills made in his
   analysis. There are only a small number of assumptions that drive his
   results. Table 1 shows that of the 295 TWh that Mills calculates for
   Internet-related electricity use, more than half is in just three
   categories: Mainframe computers that serve "Major dot com company" web
   sites, Web sites using 1 The ISO 14000 standards documents
   (particularly ISO 14040 and 14041) deal with the methodological issues
   surrounding such boundary issues. See http://www.iso.ch. 2 smaller
   servers, and telephone central offices. An additional 25% of Mills'
   total energy use is associated with use of PCs in offices and homes,
   and another 8% of Mills' total energy use is associated with routers.
   The rest (10%) is associated with the embodied energy to manufacture
   the equipment. We treat each of these categories in turn. Table 1:
   Summary of Mills' estimates of current electricity use associated with
   the Internet circa 1998 # of units Elect. Used % of total Cumulative %
   Millions TWh/year 1) Major dot-com companies 0.033 72 24% 24% 2) Web
   sites 4 52 18% 42% 3) Telephone central offices 0.01 43 15% 57% 4) PCs
   in offices for all purposes 40 44 15% 71% 5) PCs at home for all
   purposes 41 31 10% 82% 6) Routers on Internet 2 16 5% 87% 7) Routers in
   LANS and WANs 1 8 3% 90% 8) Energy to manufacture equipment 19.5 29 10%
   100% Total 295 100% 1) MAINFRAME COMPUTERS FOR 'MAJOR DOT COM
   COMPANIES' Mills takes the number of mainframe computers in the U.S.
   from the ITI data book, which is the industry source for such numbers.
   He assumes that 10% of all mainframe computers in companies other than
   the major Internet companies are devoted solely to serving web sites.
   We have no way to judge the plausibility of this assumption, but we
   note that many such computers serve multiple functions (it is their
   multitasking abilities that make them so useful). Mills' choice to add
   the 10% of total mainframe installations to the number of
   mainframes/web farms in "Major dot-com" companies is an arbitrary one,
   but one with which we do not have the data to quibble. Definitions of
   mainframe computers are not well established, and it appears that Mills
   did not use the same definitions for his stock and power estimates. The
   stock estimates rely on the ITI data book numbers, which count any
   computer costing more than $350,000 as a mainframe. The power estimates
   he used appear to be inconsistent with this definition. Mills assumes
   that each mainframe uses 250 kW, 8760 hours per year. Half of this is
   assumed to be direct electricity used by the computer, and half for
   cooling. If the computer's direct consumption is 125 kW, this would
   place it in the ballpark of LBNL's Phase I supercomputer, installed in
   July 1999, which draws 150 kW (actual, not rated). It has about 600
   processors, and is one of the most powerful in the world. The LBNL
   supercomputer cost tens of millions of dollars, but such supercomputers
   number only in the hundreds in the U.S. The bulk of mainframe
   installations are nowhere near the computing power of a supercomputer,
   yet that is the power use Mills chose for the typical mainframe. For
   LBNL's Phase I supercomputer, the actual power use is about 0.25 kW per
   CPU.2 If we use this consumption per CPU, the 125 kW Mills assumes is
   equivalent to a supercomputer 2 Note that the LBNL Phase II
   Supercomputer, now under construction, will use about 0.1 kW per CPU.
   Source: Howard Walter at LBNL, who is designing the power systems for
   the new LBNL NERSC building. He generously provided numbers on the
   power requirements of supercomputers and their associated cooling
   loads. 3 with 520 processors. This represents far more processing power
   than a typical mainframe computer. The IBM S/390 Enterprise server,
   which Mills' report cites as an example of the latest mainframe
   technology, has a rated (maximum) power of up to 6.4 kVA (roughly
   equivalent to 6.4 kW), depending on the number of processors. For the
   reasons described in Nordman (1999), the actual power use of almost all
   types of electronic equipment is typically one-half to one-third of the
   rated power (the rated power is the maximum power that the power supply
   will consume under fully loaded, worst case conditions). If the actual
   power is half of the rated power, this machine would use 3.2 kW for
   typical installations. Of course, IBM's server is relatively new and it
   relies on CMOS technology to reduce power use, so it probably uses less
   power than an older mainframe. The rated power may also not include
   peripheral equipment that would be included in a typical mainframe
   installation. It is clear that 125 kW is a much larger power number
   than has been used in such analyses in the past. The Koomey et al.
   (1995) report estimates power used by older (1985-1990) mainframes at
   25 kW, declining to 10 kW by 1999 (an estimate for 1999 which is
   validated by the S/390 data described in the previous paragraph). The
   recent Swiss study by Meyer and Schaltegger (1999) used 30 kW for the
   average power of each of the roughly 1000 mainframes in Switzerland. We
   checked the price of the S/390 on the IBM web site and found that its
   cost is well above ITI's $350k cutoff for mainframes (S/390s cost
   millions of dollars). We believe, as Mills also does, that this machine
   is representative of mainframe computers now being installed. If we
   accept the 3.2 kW direct power use of the S/390 and quadruple it to
   account for peripheral equipment, that still leaves our estimate of
   power used per mainframe (12.8 kW) at about one tenth of what Mills
   assumes. Cooling is at most 50% of direct power consumption, not 100%
   as Mills assumes. This result follows from the compressor-based cooling
   technologies commonly used in commercial buildings and computer rooms,
   which have Coefficients Of Performance (COPs) of 2.0 or better. A COP
   of 2.0 implies that 1 unit of electricity is consumed to move 2 units
   of heat out of the conditioned space. We consulted with the
   supercomputer team at LBNL, who use 50% additional power for cooling as
   their best guess for maximum cooling loads when designing a new
   supercomputer (although in actual practice, 30% is more typical in the
   Bay Area). Using our 12.8 kW direct power use estimate, combined with a
   50% multiplier for cooling energy, leaves us at 19.2 kW per mainframe.
   If we replace Mills' assumption of 250 kW with this new estimate, total
   electricity used by the Major dot-com companies becomes 5.5 TWh, a
   reduction of 66.5 TWh or about a factor of thirteen. By itself, this
   correction reduces Mills' estimate of electricity used by the Internet
   by 22%. 2) WEB SERVERS Mills refers to an article titled "WWW Hosts 5
   Million Web Sites" (http://www.nua.ie/surveys) to justify his
   assumption of the number of web servers. He takes 70% of 5 million,
   which rounds to 4 million servers. The problem is that the article to
   which Mills refers talks about web sites NOT servers. One server can
   host dozens of web sites (a fact that Mills acknowledges in his
   report), so the number of servers is much lower than the number of
   sites. We assume, for purposes of these calculations, that each server
   hosts 5 sites (although that is likely to be an underestimate). In
   practice, some servers will have just one site, and others will have
   many. This correction factor alone reduces Mills' estimate of
   electricity use for this component by 80%. 4 The power used by
   mini-computers and workstations is assumed by Mills to equal 1.5 kW, 1
   kW of which is direct power used by the computer, and 0.5 kW is from
   peripherals, "especially data backup". Data backup only runs once a
   day, and services many CPUs. It is unlikely that 0.5 kW per CPU is a
   reasonable estimate for this service. Based on the discussion of PC
   power use below, we reduce Mills' 1.5 kW estimate by a factor of 5, to
   0.3 kW. With both corrections (for number of units and power per unit),
   total power used by U.S. web servers is reduced by a factor of 25, to
   2.1 TWh. 3) TELEPHONE CENTRAL OFFICES Telephone central offices are the
   next most important item in Mills' list, but much more information and
   documentation is needed to justify the calculations, particularly the
   number of such offices and the power use per office. Mills' estimates
   that central offices each use 500 kW. His table indicates that there
   are 25,000 such central offices in the U.S. In fact, most of these
   central offices are significantly smaller than Mills' assumes (between
   30 and 50 kW). We are working on getting an accurate distribution of
   such central offices by power level, but in the absence of those data,
   we took another tack. Our contact at a major phone company reports that
   a central office uses about 3.3 kWh per thousand minutes of so called
   "dial equipment minutes" or DEQ (a standard measure of phone connect
   time). FCC (1999) reports total DEQ for the U.S. of 3,612 billion
   minutes in 1997. These two numbers together imply electricity used by
   all central offices of 12 TWh/year. To make this number comparable to
   Mills' estimate, we multiply this figure by 40%, to get 4.8 TWh/year.
   With this revised estimate, power used by central offices is reduced by
   37 TWh, or about a factor of nine. 4) OFFICE PCs The power used by most
   personal computers is assumed by Mills to equal 1 kW. This estimate is
   assumed to include all peripheral equipment associated with PCs, as
   well as some unspecified other equipment. Without a detailed accounting
   of his assumptions about this equipment, it is difficult to determine
   what he assumed. However, there is a large body of literature on actual
   power used by such equipment. A recent power measurement of a 500 MHz
   Pentium III PC that had no power management showed average power over
   the course of a day of about 40 W for the CPU.3 A typical 17" monitor
   uses about 90 W in active mode. Of course, most PCs and monitors now
   are capable of power management (which neither of the above
   measurements include), so that over the course of a day, these power
   numbers would be reduced. ENERGY STAR PCs power down to less than 30 W,
   and typical ENERGY STAR monitors power down to less than 10 W. Whether
   power management is enabled in many cases is an open question (recent
   surveys found roughly a third of PCs and monitors had power management
   correctly enabled in offices), but for the sake of argument, we ignore
   it. 3 Personal communication with Bruce Nordman, LBNL, November 1999. 5
   Peripheral equipment is often shared. In our office, 20 people share a
   workgroup printer (HP 8000 DN). We metered this printer, and it draws
   about 163 W in active mode (when printing), and about 120 W in standby
   mode. In sleep mode it draws about 30 W, and on average, including
   sleep modes and printing, it uses about 50 W. Even ignoring the power
   management of the printer, and assuming it is constantly printing, it
   would add only 8 W per CPU to our estimate of average PC power. For
   home PCs, most printers will be inkjets, which typically draw less than
   30W even in active mode. It is not clear what other equipment Mills is
   referring to in his 1 kW estimate, but we feel it is unlikely to push
   the average power used by PCs and peripherals to greater than 200 W
   (and with power management, we feel strongly that 200 W average power
   is an overestimate). For purposes of these calculations, we use 200 W
   instead of Mills' 1 kW estimate, and recalculate electricity used by
   PCs to reflect this revised estimate. If he believes that other
   "behind-the- wall" components account for a significant amount of power
   use (800 W/CPU in this case), he needs to specify, item by item, the
   number and power use of all these components. We examined the "behind
   the wall" components of the LBNL computer network, but we were unable
   to figure out how these components, most of which serve multiple CPUs,
   could possibly add up to 800 W per CPU (tens of watts per CPU over and
   above router power use is more like it. See Nordman 1999 for details).
   The power used by high end personal computers is assumed by Mills to
   equal 2 kW. We reduce this estimate also by a factor of five, to 400 W,
   even though this is almost certainly an overestimate (doubling the CPU
   power for the 500 MHz Pentium III above and assuming a 21 inch monitor
   at about 120 Watts only leads to actual power use of 200 Watts, without
   considering power management). For usage of PCs at the office, Mills
   assumes twelve hours per week, which is the same as that assumed for
   home PCs (see point 5, below). It is important to note the inherent
   arbitrariness of attempting to calculate what part of office PC use is
   "associated with the Internet". We have no data for what portion of
   office computer use is "associated with the Internet". The only
   adjustment we make to Mills' usage numbers in this category is to
   reduce usage for typical office PCs to seven hours per week from 12
   hours per week, to reflect our revision in the home PC usage number
   below (this adjustment preserves consistency between our methodology
   and that of Mills). We do not change usage assumptions for PCs at
   offices behind a firewall or PCs used in commercial Internet services.
   With these corrections, PCs in offices use about 7.2 TWh, a reduction
   of 84% from Mills' estimate. 5) PCS AT HOME Mills' assumption of 1 kW
   power draw for home PCs is subject to the same issues examined under
   point 4, and hence we reduce his 1 kW by a factor of 5, to 0.2 kW. Even
   though peripheral equipment in a home is associated typically with one
   PC instead of many in a work environment, that equipment is not always
   on when the computer is on, and it is likely to be lower power versions
   of that equipment (e.g. ink jets instead of laser printers, low end
   scanners, etc.). We now turn to usage of home PCs. Mills assumes twelve
   hours per week of usage for these computers, based on an Intelliquest
   study of home users, but he acknowledges that "other surveys show lower
   averages". He cites the Neilson/NetRatings March 1999 survey at seven
   hours per month (less than two hours per week). Another quite recent
   study (7 December 1999) shows usage of five to eight hours per month,
   which is also about two hours per week
   (http://www.nua.ie/surveys/?f=VS&art_id=905355453&rel=true). With this
   great a range in estimates of usage, it is important to be cautious in
   drawing conclusions. We were unable to 6 locate any studies that
   indicated that average U.S. Internet users were logged on more than 12
   hours per week, so we feel justified in treating this as an upper
   bound, with the likely average possibly as low as two hours per week.
   Even choosing seven hours per week (the midrange between those two
   estimates) would reduce Mills' estimates for electricity associated
   with home Internet use substantially. Mills claims he is being
   conservative by assuming that every single PC and all its relevant
   peripherals accessing the Net is physically turned on and operating
   only the 12 hours per week from the Forrester Research (IntelliQuest)
   survey, and otherwise completely off. As a practical matter many
   (possibly most) are on at least 50 hours per week, many 24 by 7. A
   'realistic' weekly 'on' time of 50 hours yields about the same rough
   kWh for a 200-300 W duty-cycle compensated PC as the conservative 12
   hour/wk duty cycle does for a 1,000 peak W device (footnote 53, in
   Mills 1999). The claim of conservatism is spurious. People use their
   computers for many other things besides Internet access, which is why
   at least some people have their computers on for 50 hours per week or
   more (though we doubt many home users do). According to the surveys
   cited below, the Internet-related component of home PC use is between
   two and 12 hours per week. That some people keep their home PCs on for
   more hours than that is irrelevant to Mills stated purpose, that of
   calculating electricity use "associated with the Internet". Based on
   the surveys cited above, we choose usage of seven hours per week for
   typical home PC users, instead of 12 hours per week. We do not change
   hours of usage for PC power users or PCs in home offices. With these
   corrections for power and usage, PCs in homes use about 5 TWh, a
   reduction of 84% from Mills' estimate. 6) ROUTERS ON THE INTERNET
   Mills' assessment of the number of routers seems inconsistent with our
   review of the market for these products. It is not clear why there
   would be twice as many high end routers as low end ones, when in fact
   the low end ones must be more numerous in any network with central
   nodes feeding dispersed nodes. We did not correct for this observation,
   but simply note it for future research. It is also not clear if Mills'
   stock estimates include switches and routers together, or just routers
   alone. This issue also must await further research. Cisco's very
   highest-end router, which is used in the highest throughput
   applications, has a rated power of 1.5 to 2 kW. The actual power used
   for this device will then be 0.75 to 1 kW, because rated power is
   typically two times the actual power (see text under item 1 above).
   Unfortunately for Mills' argument, there are very few of these large
   routers sold every year. Based on a review of the high-end routers sold
   by Cisco systems, we find that more typical high end routers have rated
   power of 0.3 to 0.8 kW in typical use (actual power of 0.15 to 0.4 kW).
   We therefore reduce power use to 0.3 kW, from 1 kW. Once we correct the
   power use, routers on the Internet show total consumption of 4.8 TWh, a
   reduction of 70% from Mills' estimate. 7) ROUTERS ON LANS AND WANS
   Routers on Local Area Networks and Wide Area networks (LANs and WANs)
   use much less power than Mills assumes. In the text of his report, he
   states that he uses 0.5 kW for the smaller routers, and 1 kW for the
   larger (Internet) routers. The total TWh calculations do not 7 support
   this assertion--they imply that the 1 kW assumption was also used for
   the LAN and WAN routers (divide 8 TWh by 1 million routers, and then by
   8760 hours, and you get just under 1 kW). Mills therefore assumes 1 kW
   average power draw for all routers. Cisco's typical lower end routers
   (which account for the majority of all routers) range in rated power
   from 0.04 to 0.2 kW. We therefore reduce Mills' estimate by a factor of
   twenty, to reflect a rated power of 0.1 kW and an actual average
   low-end router power of 0.05 kW (this last factor of two correction
   from rated power to actual is the same as that used under points 1 and
   6 above). Once we correct the power use, routers on LANs and WANs show
   total consumption of 0.4 TWh, a reduction of 95% from Mills' estimate.
   8) MANUFACTURING ENERGY Manufacturing energy for computers on the
   Internet is the most difficult of these categories to analyze, because
   of the lack of data. The life-cycle assessment needed to calculate
   embodied electricity use of electronic equipment is a complicated
   exercise, and one that has only rarely been carried out. The most
   recent data we examined come from NEC, the largest computer
   manufacturer in Japan (Tekawa 1997). NEC estimates total greenhouse gas
   emissions from manufacturing a desktop PC to be 128 kg/CO2 equivalent
   (unfortunately, we don't at this time have much detail on the
   components of this calculation). Some of these emissions are non-CO2
   greenhouse gases, and some are from non-electricity related fuel use.
   Nevertheless, we can get an estimate for the upper bound to electricity
   used for manufacturing all parts of the PC by assuming all of these
   emissions come from electricity (electricity is more carbon intensive
   per unit of energy consumed than direct use of fuels). The average
   emissions factor for Japanese electricity production is about 0.42 kg
   CO2 per kWh (115 g C per kWh). This factor implies total electricity
   use of about 300 kWh per desktop PC, which is an upper bound, as
   described above. NEC states that the electricity used to assemble their
   PCs is about 120 kWh per unit,4 so total electricity use is between 120
   kWh and 300 kWh per PC. We chose 300 kWh per PC, which is one fifth of
   Mills' estimate. This is an absolute upper bound. The true number is
   almost certainly lower than this. With this factor of five correction,
   Mills estimate of 29 TWh for manufacturing energy is reduced to 6 TWh.
   CONCLUSIONS Table 2 shows Mills' estimates corrected as described
   above. In every category, his estimates must be reduced substantially
   (by factors of 3 to 25) to reflect more accurate assumptions. For all
   categories taken as a whole, Mills' estimates are reduced by 88%.
   Mills' report does not contain enough detailed documentation to assess
   the reasonableness of many assumptions, but it is clear from the review
   of assumptions conducted above that he has vastly overestimated
   electricity use associated with the Internet. In addition, the value of
   such estimates is questionable, given the difficult boundary and
   allocation issues described above. It would be more useful to estimate
   total electricity used for all office equipment and 4 Both Compaq and
   Dell appear to use significantly less electricity than NEC to assemble
   their PCs, and we are investigating this difference. 8 associated
   network equipment, because that number is inherently more reliable than
   deriving what fraction of such devices are "associated with the
   Internet". Finally, the structural and substitution effects alluded to
   above are almost certainly large enough to matter. Future estimates of
   the impacts of the information technology revolution (which are larger
   in scope than those of just the Internet) should explicitly account for
   these effects. Table 2: Corrected estimates of current electricity use
   associated with the Internet # of units Elect. Used % of total
   Cumulative % Millions TWh/year 1) Major dot-com companies 0.033 5.5 15%
   15% 2) Web sites 0.8 2.1 6% 21% 3) Telephone central offices 0.01 4.8
   13% 35% 4) PCs in offices for all purposes 40 7.2 20% 55% 5) PCs at
   home for all purposes 41 5.0 14% 69% 6) Routers on Internet 2 4.8 13%
   82% 7) Routers in LANS and WANs 1 0.4 1% 83% 8) Energy to manufacture
   equipment 19.5 6.0 17% 100% Total 36 100% REFERENCES FCC, Federal
   Communications Commission. 1999. Trends in Telephone Service.
   Washington, DC: Industry Analysis Division, Common Carrier Bureau.
   September. Found at
   http://www.fcc.gov/Bureaus/Common_Carrier/Reports/FCC-State_Link/trends
   .html Huber, Peter, and Mark P. Mills. 1999. "Dig more coal-the PCs are
   coming." In Forbes. May 31, 1999. Read online at
   http://forbes.com/forbes/99/0531/6311070a.htm. Koomey, Jonathan G.,
   Mike Cramer, Mary Ann Piette, and Joe Eto. 1995. Efficiency
   Improvements in U.S. Office Equipment: Expected Policy Impacts and
   Uncertainties. Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory. LBL-37383. December.
   http://enduse.lbl.gov/Info/37383- abstract.html. Also published in 1996
   in Energy Policy. vol. 24, no. 12. December. pp. 1101-1110. Meyer &
   Schaltegger AG. 1999. Bestimmung des Energieverbrauchs von
   Unterhaltungselektronikger채ten, B체roger채ten und Automaten in der
   Schweiz. St. Gallen, Switzerland: Bundesamts f체r Energie. March. Mills,
   Mark P. 1999. The Internet Begins with Coal: A Preliminary Exploration
   of the Impact of the Internet on Electricity Consumption. Arlington,
   VA: The Greening Earth Society. May. http://www.fossilfuels.org.
   Nordman, Bruce. 1999. Memo to Jonathan Koomey on Electricity
   requirements for LBNL's Networking Hardware. December 9. Lawrence
   Berkeley National Laboratory. Tekawa, Masafumi, Shigeyuki Miyamoto, and
   Atsushi Inaba. 1997. Life Cycle Assessment: An Approach to
   Environmentally Friendly PCs. Proceedings of the IEEE International
   Symposium on Electronics and the Environment. pp. 125-130. 9
