http://www.csb.gov/news/2001/n20010301.htm

   Line Separator Image Line Separator Image Line Separator Image

                      ABOUT THE CSB
              Line Separator Image
                     INVESTIGATIONS
              Line Separator Image
           CONFERENCES AND MEETINGS
              Line Separator Image
   CHEMICAL INCIDENT REPORTS CENTER
              Line Separator Image
                          CHEMLINKS
              Line Separator Image
                     E-MAIL UPDATES
              Line Separator Image
               CAREER OPPORTUNITIES
              Line Separator Image
       REPORTING CHEMICAL INCIDENTS
              Line Separator Image

   corner QUICK SEARCH corner

          (*) Web Site ( ) CIRC
   ____________
   Click Here to Submit Your Search

   corner Line Separator Image corner


   U.S. Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
   CSB - Library
   Site Navigation
   CSB to Investigate Fatal BP Amoco Explosion

                                                       TRANSLATE THIS PAGE

   (Washington, DC - March 21, 2001): The U.S. Chemical Safety & Hazard
   Investigation Board (CSB) has dispatched a second investigative team to
   the site of a fatal explosion at a Georgia plastics manufacturing
   facility. The team will carry on work begun shortly after the incident
   by a CSB preliminary assessment team. The blast early on the morning of
   March 13 left three dead at the BP Amoco Polymers plant in Augusta. The
   explosion initiated a secondary chemical fire that took five hours to
   bring under control.

   The incident occurred during maintenance operations on equipment used
   to produce Amodel, a high-temperature plastic used in automobile parts.
   Workers were unbolting a five-foot cover plate from a process vessel
   when the explosion occurred. Two workers were killed instantly, and a
   third was pronounced dead later. The first CSB team arrived within
   twenty-four hours of the event.

   According to the CSB investigators, the vessel was used to collect
   process wastes during the startup and shutdown of the polymer
   production line. On this occasion, production was shut down after an
   abortive start-up attempt. Preliminary evidence indicates the vessel
   may have contained process materials that continued to react together
   generating pressurized steam. Workers were evidently unaware of the
   accumulated pressure when they began unbolting the cover plate. The
   violent rupture shifted the nine-foot vessel, bent six-inch pipes, and
   sent the cover plate flying.

   "Clearly the startup and shutdown of processes can introduce unforeseen
   hazards. Our immediate priority is to understand the source of the
   pressure in the vessel and determine why workers had no warning of the
   imminent danger," said Board Member Dr. Andrea Kidd Taylor. "At
   present, the investigation is examining the overall process design, the
   company's hazard evaluation process, and the adequacy of procedures.
   This incident may prove to involve an unanticipated reactive chemical
   hazard," Taylor said, noting that the CSB already has underway a
   special study of such hazards.

   PAGE LAST UPDATED:March 22, 2001
                              Line Separator Image
   U.S. Chemical Safety Board
   info@csb.gov                                              Home | Top of Page
                             Site Help | Search | Feedback | Contact | Library
