http://hvo.wr.usgs.gov/observatory/hvo_history.html

   USGS
   Hawaiian Volcano Observatory
   About HVO
     __________________________________________________________________

         THOMAS A. JAGGAR, JR., AND THE HAWAIIAN VOLCANO OBSERVATORY

           Russell A. Apple (U.S. National Park Service, retired)

                                  ABSTRACT

   The digging of a cellar excavation on the north rim of Kilauea caldera
   in February 1912 marked the beginning of permanent facilities for what
   was to become the Hawaiian Volcano Observatory (HVO). The Observatory
   was largely the creation of Thomas A. Jaggar (18711953), then a
   Massachusetts Institute of Technology (M.I.T.) professor, who
   recognized the advantages, for the study of volcanism, of onsite
   facilities at an active volcano. Jaggar's efforts to establish an
   observatory at Kilauea were enthusiastically supported by Lorrin A.
   Thurston (18581931), a prominent Honolulu lawyer and businessman, who
   organized private support for Jaggar and HVO that continued into the
   1940's. Initial support also came from M.I.T. and the University of
   Hawaii, and HVO was later successively sponsored by the U.S. Weather
   Bureau (191924), the U.S. Geological Survey (192435), the National Park
   Service (193547), and (since 1947) again the USGS.

   The original HVO building, with a seismograph vault in its cellar, was
   in use until the early 1940's, when the Observatory was able to occupy
   a new building 200 m back from the caldera rim. In 1948 HVO moved to a
   building at the top of Uwekahuna Bluff on the northwest rim of Kilauea
   caldera; a new and larger building there was completed in 1986.

   Under Jaggar's directorship (191240), HVO pioneered in seismological
   and other studies of volcanic processes. Seismographs were important
   instruments from the beginning of the Observatory, and HVO staff made
   numerous modifications to adapt them to the study of local volcanic
   seismicity. Jaggar even developed a rugged portable seismograph for use
   in outlying areas by amateur assistants. Early experiments in measuring
   the temperature of liquid lava were more educational than successful;
   the same can be said of the 1922 drilling program of four holes in and
   around Kilauea caldera. To support the drilling, HVO staff developed a
   modified touring car fitted with double wheels. For exploration around
   the coasts, an amphibious vehicle was designed and constructed.
   Jaggar's campaign to obtain facilities at the top of Mauna Loa Volcano
   and a road leading to them was never entirely successful, but it has
   been made unnecessary by the advent of helicopters. Observation of the
   destruction of property by a lava flow in the 1926 eruption of Mauna
   Loa led to HVO-guided efforts to divert or stop flows threatening Hilo
   in 1935 and 1942 and to plans (never realized) for a set of permanent
   barriers. Concern for protection of lives and property also led to
   studies of tsunamis; in 1933 HVO used seismograms to predict
   (accurately) the arrival of a tsunami from a distant earthquake, and
   people in low-lying areas of Hawaii were for the first time
   successfully warned in advance. Such efforts reflected Jaggar's concern
   for not only the advance of science but also its application to the
   benefit of society.

   Over its first 75 years, HVO has contributed much to the growing
   science of volcanology; for this a large debt is owed to the character
   and qualities of Thomas A. Jaggar.

                                INTRODUCTION

   A hole was to be dugby hand. Wooden stakes marked the corners of a
   rectangle about 7.3 m (24 ft) long by 6.7 m (22 ft) wide only about 6 m
   (20 ft) from the clifflike rim of Kilauea caldera on the Island of
   Hawaii. It was February 16, 1912, and the foundation to be dug was for
   Thomas A. Jaggar's volcano observation post, precursor of the Hawaiian
   Volcano Observatory (HVO).

   The diggers were prisoners of the Territory of Hawaii, sentenced to a
   term of hard labor (HVO record book for 1912; Duncan, 1961). Jaggar was
   not above using free labor, prison or otherwise, to help stretch his
   limited funds. Their prison camp was nearby at what is now Kilauea
   Military Camp in Hawaii Volcanoes National Park.
   The prisoners dug through almost six feet of volcanic ash and pumice to
   a layer of thick pahoehoe lavaa firm base for the concrete piers on
   which seismometers would be anchored. Plans and elevations for the
   piers had been hand drawn by Professor F. Omori at the Seismological
   Institute, Imperial University, Tokyo, Japan, and mailed two years
   before to Jaggar at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Omori
   also shipped to Jaggar, care of the Territorial Division of Forestry in
   Honolulu, "An Omori-type Horizontal Tromometer (a seismometer)
   (magnification = 120200), and a seismograph for the observation of
   ordinary earthquakes" (Omori, 1910). These instruments were paid for
   and on hand in their crates as the prisoners dug.

   Soon on hand at the crater rim were carpenters and workmen of the Hilo
   branch of H. Hackfeld and Company, Ltd., one of Hawaii's "Big Five"
   companies that controlled virtually all economy in the IslandsHackfeld
   later became AMFAC, a multi-billion-dollar conglomerate (Weiner, 1982).
   Jaggar had contracted with Hackfeld for the forms and concrete work for
   the seismometer vault, and for the wooden structures that were to stand
   over and adjacent to the vaultthe rimside facilities of the Hawaiian
   Volcano Observatory. The prime contract was for $1,785 and included a
   redwood tank for water storage. An additional $300 also went to
   Hackfeld for extra water-storage tanks (Jaggar, 1917a). Hackfeld
   executives and the directors of the other "Big Five" corporations were
   personally helping to sponsor the volcano observatory.

   When British explorer Captain James Cook "discovered" Hawaii in 1778,
   Hawaiians had been living on some of the islands for as long as 1,300
   years and had developed a complex, affluent Polynesian civilization. By
   1795, when the various chiefdoms and islands were united to form the
   Kingdom of Hawaii, regular contact with Westerners had changed forever
   Hawaiians' environment and their way of life. However, with volcanism
   such an obvious presence in these growing islands, one part of the
   ancient Hawaiian religion that was keptand still survives todayis the
   belief in the Hawaiian goddess of volcanoes, Pele.

   Hawaiians believed that the goddess and her supernatural associates
   often entered into the political and social affairs of men. Pele could
   take human form, sometimes as a beautiful girl, sometimes as an old
   hag. Any female stranger could be the goddess. Pele was a major deity
   who had to be properly propitiatedshe took offense easilybecause in her
   anger she caused earthquakes and volcanic eruptions, and she personally
   directed the course of her lava flows.

   Hawaiians believed that the summit caldera of Kilauea Volcano was the
   home of Pele, her family, and associates, but those deities also had
   "houses" elsewhere on the Islands of Hawaii and Maui that they could
   visit at will; these houses include the tops of mountains and all
   craters, cones, and hills. Pele required special behavior from humans
   in the vicinity of any of her houses, especially within a radius of 10
   km (6 mi) or less from Kilauea caldera, and she expected tribute.

   When high chiefs or other people failed to submit proper tribute,
   insulted Pele, her family, or her priests, or behaved improperly in
   Pele's domain, then the volcanic deities expressed their anger. They
   either flooded Kilauea caldera with lava and violently ejected it
   through the air over the countryside, or they took a subterranean
   passage to one of their" houses" near the land and homes of those who
   had offended and, using that house as a base of operations, proceeded
   to punish the offenders by, at a minimum, covering some of their land
   with fresh lava (Ellis, 1827; Menzies, 1920). Pele stamped her foot
   enough times before and between episodes of visible volcanism to remind
   people of her power and presence; each stamp caused an earthquake. Pele
   could also call down lightning and cause thunder to roll across the
   sky.

   In 1893, the Kingdom of Hawaii was overthrown by non-Hawaiian
   businessmen. Five years later in 1898, during the Spanish-American War,
   the United States annexed Hawaii; the Islands thus became "American
   soil." This was one of the factors that led to the establishment of an
   American-sponsored volcano observatory on the rim of Kilauea Volcano
   (Apple, 1982; Apple and Apple, 1979a; Daws, 1968; Kuykendall, 1967).

   During the nineteenth century, while the Hawaiians were being
   introduced to the ways of Western civilization, Hawaiian volcanoes were
   described in letters, reports, logs, journals, sketches, notes, and
   books, published in various places and some distributed worldwide.
   First made famous because Captain Cook was killed there, the Island of
   Hawaii now added another world-renowned distinction: active volcanoes.
   Principal fame focused on Kilauea, which appeared to be comparatively
   benign. Kilauea had an apparent constancy of activity within its vast
   summit caldera and, in contrast to some European volcanoes, was not
   known to wipe out villages or cast glowing fragments of lava down upon
   hillsides devoted to viniculture. At Kilauea, according to reports,
   volcanism stayed put inside a crater. While the general public was
   getting armchair thrills from travel writers, some scientists were also
   becoming aware of, and visiting, the Big Island (table 1).

   Table 1. Some sources for early descriptions of the volcanoes of Hawaii


   Name or type of observer Sponsor, if any Reference
   1825 Lord Byron party England Byron, 1826
   1834 Botanist London Horticultural Society Douglass, 1834, 1919
   1834 Captains Parker and Chase Kelley, 1841
   1837 Geologist Strzelecki, 1838, 1845 Lowenstern, 1841
   1839 Scientist
   1839 Ship's captain Shepherd, 1840
   1840 U.S. Exploring Expedition U.S. Government Wilkes, 1845
   1840 Geologist U.S. Exploring Expedition Dana, 1849
   1846 Professor Harvard University Lyman, 1851
   1859 Geologist Green, 1887
   1868 Kilauea historian Harvard University Brigham, 1868, 1869
   1873 Travel Writer Bird, 1875
   1880 Kilauea historian Bishop Museum Brigham, 1909
   1882 Geologist U.S. Geological Survey Dutton, 1884
   1883 Geologist Dartmouth College Hitchcock, 1911
   1887 Geologist Yale University Dana, 1890
   1909 Geologist Massachusetts Institute of Technology Daly, 1911

   The scientists listed in table 1 did not always agree. First there was
   the continuing, friendly controversy in the American Journal of Science
   and Arts ("Silliman's Journal") between Rev. Titus Coan, a Hilo man who
   hiked to and described almost every flank eruption of Mauna Loa between
   1843 and 1880, and J.D. Dana, one of the journal's editors and a famous
   geologist, who didn't always believe the testimony of the eyewitness.
   For instance, after Dana published Reverend Coan's graphic and detailed
   description of the source and flows of Mauna Loa's 1843 eruption, Dana
   followed with "Mr. Coan speaks of the lavas as flowing from an orifice
   in a broad stream down the mountain. It is probable that fissures
   opening to the fires below were continued at intervals along the course
   of the eruption, and that these afforded accession to the fiery flood.
   Any internal force sufficient to break through the sides of a mountain
   like Mauna Loa, must necessarily produce a linear fissure or a series
   of fissures, and not a single tunnel-like opening." (Dana, 1852, p.
   256; see also Dana, 1850; T. Coan, 1871, 1882; L. Coan, 1884.)

   Arguments such as this could only be resolved by volcanologists doing
   the observing, but they served to publicize the need for further study.
   The Coan-Dana controversy helped raise questions that needed to be
   answered about volcanoes, thus helping pave the way for such
   institutions as the Hawaiian Volcano Observatory.

   When a hotel on the rim of Kilauea caldera became a permanent facility
   in 1866, its series of guest registers became a repository of reports
   and observations by the guests, an almost daily record (by observers
   who varied from the scientist to the joker) of earthquakes felt and
   unfelt and of volcanism seen and unseen on Kilauea and Mauna Loa. Both
   Brigham (1909) and Hitchcock (1911) mined the more reliable reports
   from the Volcano House guest registers, quoting them along with
   observations from their own visits and reports from many additional
   sources to yield histories of both volcanoes, comprehensive up to their
   dates of publication.

   Brigham, a scientist who once taught botany at Harvard and also
   practiced law in Boston, was by 1898 the Director of the Bernice Pauahi
   Bishop Museum in Honolulu. Hitchcock was a geologist, a member of a
   prominent Hilo family, and by 1909 was retired as Emeritus Professor of
   Geology at Dartmouth College. Both Brigham and Hitchcock kept up with
   the comings and goings of scientists interested in the Big Island
   volcanoes.

   Brigham (1909, p. 216) notes that in the spring of 1909 the "well-known
   professors in the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, T.A. Jaggar,
   Jr., and R.A. Daly," visited Kilauea, and that Jaggar and Daly were
   "interested in the establishment of a permanent observatory at Kilauea,
   a result so ardently hoped for many years and frequently referred to in
   these pages."

   Hitchcock (1911, p. 306) applauds Brigham's recommendation that a
   "permanent scientific observatory be established at Kilauea, where
   notes may be taken with the best instruments, of earthquakes, the
   diurnal changes of the dome of Halemaumau, the temperatures of the
   molten lava and steam jets, the analysis of ejecta and spectroscopic
   investigations."

   While arguments on behalf of more formal scientific investigations in
   Hawaii were being presented, the public had been well prepared by press
   reports of devastating earthquakes and volcanic eruptions around the
   world, especially the eruption of Mont Pelé in 1902 and the San
   Francisco earthquake in 1906.

   In the hope that science could close the gaps in geological knowledge
   and learn to predict earthquakes and eruptions, some New Englanders
   were willing for humanitarian reasons to finance foreign trips and
   support work abroad for scientists. For instance, the Springfield
   (Massachusetts) Volcanic Research Society supported, at least in part,
   the travels and studies of Frank A. Perret, an electrical engineer and
   inventor turned volcanologist who became well known for his studies at
   Vesuvius, Etna, and Stromboli. The Springfield society also helped
   support Perret's 1911 work at Kilauea (Wentworth and Powers, 1962;
   Macdonald, 1972).
   It was in this climate of opinion that the trustees of the estates of
   Edward and Caroline Whitney gave to the Massachusetts Institute of
   Technology the sum of $25,000 for a memorial fund; the principal and
   interest were to be expended at M.I.T's discretion for research or
   teaching in geophysics, especially seismology, "with a view to the
   protection of human life and property" (Jaggar, 1917a). Investigations
   in Hawaii were recommended. The Whitney fund was deeded to M.I.T by the
   trustees on July 1, 1909, and three years later a group of twelve other
   New Englanders supplied M.I.T. with supplemental funds for geophysical
   research in Hawaii (Jaggar, 1917a).

   Even before the Whitney gift, M.I.T had been searching for a suitable
   site for full-time, resident study of volcanoes and earthquakes.
   Professor Thomas A. Jaggar, Jr., had investigated sites in Italy, the
   Caribbean, and Alaska. At private expense, both Jaggar and Professor
   Daly visited Kilauea in 1909. Jaggar went on to Japan; Daly stayed to
   study the action in Kilauea caldera (Daly,1911). In Japan, Jaggar
   investigated two volcanoes in eruption and studied the Japanese
   seismometer network, then the world's most advanced. He became a
   lifelong friend of Professor F. Omori, famed Japanese seismologist.

   After what he termed "mature deliberation," Jaggar chose Kilauea for
   M.I.T's volcano observatory. He gave M.I.T eight reasons for his
   choice: (1) Kilauea was the safest known volcano in the world; (2)
   Kilauea and Mauna Loa were isolated, more than 3,000 km (2,000 mi) away
   from complications other volcanic centers might impose; (3) Kilauea was
   reasonably accessibleit could be reached by a 50-km (30-mi) road from
   Hilo harbor or a day's sail from Honolulu; (4) the central Pacific was
   good for recording distant earthquakes and was served by good
   transportation east or west; (5) the climate was uniform, with air
   clear enough for astronomy; (6) small earthquakes were frequent and
   easily studied; (7) hot and cold underground waters were available for
   both agricultural and scientific purposes; (8) "The territory is
   American, and these volcanoes are famous in the history of science for
   their remarkably liquid lavas and nearly continuous activity" (Jaggar,
   1917a, p. 2).

   Jaggar stopped in Honolulu twice in 1909; obviously aware of funds to
   be forthcoming from the Whitney Fund and sure of support from M.I.T for
   an observatory at Kilauea, he sought added patronage in Honolulu.
   Jaggar gave lectures and met with the Chamber of Commerce, the Bishop
   Museum, and key businessmen. Guiding him through the interlocking
   directorships of the Hawaiian business community and introducing him
   into its parallel island society network was Honolulu businessman
   Lorrin A. Thurston, who headed, among other things, the Hawaiian
   Promotion Committee, forerunner of the Hawaii Visitors Bureau. Thurston
   and Jaggar became close friends.

                       JAGGAR AND THURSTON: BACKGROUND

   Thomas Augustus Jaggar (18711953) was born in Philadelphia,
   Pennsylvania, son of an Episcopal Bishop. He obtained three geology
   degrees from Harvard (A.B., A.M., and Ph.D.), studied in Munich and
   Heidelberg, and then began teaching at Harvard. Jaggar was one of the
   scientists sent by the U.S. Government in 1902 to investigate the
   volcanic disasters at Soufrière and Mont Pelé. His experiences there
   led him to devote his career to active volcanoes and related
   geophysics. In 1906, already a much-published, respected, well-known
   geologist, writer, and lecturer, he became head of M.I.T's department
   of geology. Jaggar saw the need for full-time, on-site study of
   volcanoes. He had long deplored that to date, especially in America, it
   was only after news of an eruption was received that geologists rushed
   from academic centers to study volcanism. There was generally no
   trained observer there beforehand, and scientists from afar often
   arrived after the eruption was over. There was then only one volcano
   observatory in the world, that at Vesuvius established in 1847. Jaggar
   thought America needed one (Jaggar, 1910; Macdonald, 1972; Bullard,
   1975; Day, 1984).

   Lorrin Andrews Thurston (18581931) was born in Honolulu, grandson of
   one of the pioneer missionaries from New England. He studied law at
   Columbia University and became a member of the Honolulu bar. In the
   Kingdom of Hawaii, Thurston served in both elected and appointed
   positions, but he was a leader in the revolution (January 17, 1893)
   that overthrew Queen Liliuokalani and ended the native monarchy. The
   very next day Thurston sailed from Honolulu for Washington, D.C., to
   serve the "Provisional Government," which he helped establish, as envoy
   extraordinary and minister plenipotentiary. He stayed for two years and
   paved the way for annexation of Hawaii by the United States in 1898. In
   his business life he developed sugar plantations and railroads, brought
   the first electric street cars to Honolulu, and was the major
   stockholder in the Volcano House on the rim of Kilauea caldera. Being a
   volcano buff, he often visited Kilauea and frequently brought officials
   and delegations from the United States to see the volcano from the
   porch of his Volcano House. In 1900, Thurston became publisher of the
   Pacific Commercial Advertiser, a Honolulu daily newspaper (still today
   under the management of a descendant). Not only did he promote a
   volcano observatory for Kilauea, but he also wished to make Kilauea a
   U.S. national park (Day, 1984). Thurston had a powerful influence
   because of his family connections and the many positions he held, and
   his support for HVO in its early years was invaluable.

                               ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

   This historical sketch is the product not only of a search of the
   literature but also of numerous discussions, conversations, and
   interviews with volcanologists, staff of HVO, and others with knowledge
   of the subject. In particular, I wish to thank R.W. Decker, R.Y.
   Koyanagi, B.J. Loucks, and Reginald Okamura for freely sharing their
   experiences and knowledge of HVO history. I am grateful to R.W. Decker
   and T.L. Wright for helpful reviews of the paper and to Barbara Decker
   and P.H. Stauffer for helping to put this manuscript into its final
   form.

   skip past historical sketch links BEGINNINGS OF THE OBSERVATORY

   PIONEERING, 1912-1953

   BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES
   TECHNOLOGY STATION (1911-1918)
   INSTRUMENT HOUSES
   WHITNEY LABORATORY OF SEISMOLOGY (1912-PRESENT)
   OTHER FACILITIES
   BUILDING 41 (1940-PRESENT)
   BUILDING 131 AT UWEKAHUNA (1927-PRESENT)
   NEW BUILDING AT UWEKAHUNA (1985-PRESENT)

   PUBLICATIONS AND DOCUMENTS

   VOLCANO EXPERIMENTS

   MAUNA LOA
   ACCESS ROUTES AND FACILITIES
   THE 1926 ERUPTION
   CONTROLLING LAVA FLOWS

   THE OHIKI AND OTHER EXPERIMENTS

   SEISMOLOGY
   INSTRUMENTS
   TRAVEL TIMES OF EARTHQUAKE WAVES
   SCALES OF EARTHQUAKE INTENSITY
   TSUNAMIS

   TILT

   SCIENCE AND THE PUBLIC

   REFERENCES CITED

                      skip past bottom navigational bar
     __________________________________________________________________

     Home blank spacer Volcano Watch blank spacer Products blank spacer
                     Gallery blank spacer Press Releases
                         How Hawaiian Volcanoes Work


    The URL of this page is
    http://hvo.wr.usgs.gov/observatory/hvo_history.html
    Contact: hvowebmaster@hvo.wr.usgs.gov
    Updated: 18 June, 2001 (pnf)
