http://matheson.house.gov/display2.cfm?id=422&type=News

   [LINK]-matheson Web Site Top Banner- Click here to skip to page content

   News Let's Talk Services Answers District Kid's Zone
   background image

    The Photo Gallery | Issues | Events in Washington | Biography | Press
                           Releases | Site Index |


                            Matheson on the Issues

     Quality of Life

     The population along Utah’s Wasatch Front is projected to double in
     the next 20 years. As a native Utahn, I am concerned about
     maintaining the quality of life that I enjoyed growing up in Utah
     for our children. As a member of the House Transportation and
     Infrastructure Committee, I want to provide common sense
     transportation options for residents that help manage growth. Click
     here for more information.

     Fiscal Responsibility

     As a proud member of the House Budget Committee, I am committed to
     ensuring that prudent fiscal choices are made in Congress.  I
     believe in creating a responsible budget that emphasizes debt
     relief, protects the Medicare and Social Security Trust Funds, and
     provides for sensible tax relief for all Utahns.  Click here for
     more information.

     Energy

     High energy prices and unreliable supplies have important
     consequences for people in Utah, both individual families and
     businesses.  Rising energy costs and western state brownouts affect
     every Utahn.  As an energy consultant for the last 13 years, I
     believe that we have both immediate and long-term challenges to
     address.  As a member of the Science Subcommittee on Energy and a
     co-chair of the Democratic Caucus Energy Task Force I am using my
     experience in the energy industry to work with my House colleagues
     to devise a balanced, long-term plan for addressing the nation’s
     growing energy problems.  Click here for more information.

     Education

     Because Utahns care about their children’s future, education is a
     top priority of the people in Utah. Our families and communities are
     growing rapidly.  Our schools are working hard to keep up. My
     primary objective in Congress is to support Utah’s families and
     schools. I am working for education reforms that will work in
     Utah.  Click here for more information.


                       Send To Printer Email to Friend

     Official Seal

                          This is an official Web site of the
                         United States House of Representatives.

                Congressman Jim Matheson, U.S. House of Representatives

         410 Cannon HOB

      Washington, DC 20515

     Phone - (202) 225-3011

                           125 State Street, Rm.2311

                           Salt Lake City, UT 84138

                            Phone - (801) 524-4394

   News |
   Let's Talk  |  Services  |  Answers  |  District |  Kid's Zone
   | Privacy Policy | Site Index  | Search
