http://www.ars.usda.gov/is/pr/1999/990810.htm

            Agricultural Research Service
           U.S. Department of Agriculture ARS News and Information
                                          Latest news | Subscribe

                               Bluebyrd plum.

   Senator Byrd Plants Bluebyrd Plum Celebrating 20 Years of ARS Research
                                   Station

                               By Judy McBride
                               August 10, 1999

     KEARNEYSVILLE, W.Va., Aug. 10--U.S. Senator Robert C. Byrd of West
        Virginia today planted a plum tree named in his honor at the
   Appalachian Fruit Research Station here in celebration of the station's
                              20th anniversary.

   In 1979, Senator Byrd dedicated the 500-acre research facility operated
   by the Agricultural Research Service, the chief research agency of the
                       U.S. Department of Agriculture.

   "Senator Byrd has been a staunch supporter of the research conducted at
    Kearneysville,” ARS Administrator Floyd P. Horn said at the planting
       ceremony. “It was with this in mind that Ralph Scorza, the ARS
       horticulturist who released the new plum, named it Bluebyrd.”

       “Scientists at this laboratory strive to develop the science,
     technology and genetic base that will produce more and better fruit
   crops while minimizing disruptions of the ecosystem,” Horn continued.
   “With this new plum tree, we’re giving consumers a new, sweet-tasting
        plum. We’re also giving growers a high-quality, consistently
   high-producing European-type plum for the mid-Atlantic and other fruit
       growing regions of the United States." Bluebyrd is available in
                   nurseries for the first time this year.

     Released in 1998, Bluebyrd has been successfully tested under cold
    winter conditions in Kearneysville and in Geneva, N.Y. First selected
     and tested in 1968 at ARS’ Beltsville (Md.) Agricultural Research
        Center, Bluebyrd ripens during the first week of September at
   Kearneysville. With deep purple skin and amber colored fruit, this plum
   consistently produces heavy crops when cross-pollinated. The plums are
          sweet and flavorful, and the hardy trees resist diseases.

     Other fruits developed by the Kearneysville researchers include two
    peaches, two pears and a nectarine, station director Dariusz Swietlik
                                    said.

    Kearneysville researchers also developed particle film technology, a
    non-toxic alternative to pesticides, which protects apples, pears and
   peaches from some insects and diseases while improving fruit yield and
                                  quality.

    In addition, discoveries of station researchers have been turned into
    two commercial products to control diseases naturally on fruit after
         harvest: Aspire, a yeast-based product, and Biosave 110, a
                           bacteria-based product.

     The researchers have found other alternatives for protecting fruit
    trees from pest insects and mites, including non-toxic sugar esters,
     beneficial insects and flowering cover crops to attract beneficial
     insects to the orchard. They also developed a mathematical model to
      predict the occurrence and appropriate control measures for fire
      blight, a devastating disease of apple and pear trees worldwide.

    Engineering research at Kearneysville has produced a prototype for an
       automatic apple inspection system and mechanical harvesters for
   blueberries, blackberries, raspberries and oranges. The scientists also
    developed new culture systems for growing strawberries in a soil-less
            medium or in hydroponics for higher economic return.

     Other developments at Kearneysville include a hydroponic system to
     produce lettuce, basil and other horticultural crops in aquaculture
   waste water. This not only provides nutrients for the plants, but also
    removes pollutants from the waste water, which can be safely returned
                             to the environment.

    Scientific contact: Ralph Scorza or Dariusz Swietlik, ARS Appalachian
   Fruit Research Station, Kearneysville, WVa.; phone (304) 725-3451 X-322
               (Scorza), X-326 (Swietlik); fax (304) 728-2340;
           rscorza@afrs.ars.usda.gov, dswietlik@afrs.ars.usda.gov.

                       Top | News Staff | Photo Staff

         Bottom menu

         Home | News | Pubs | Magazine | Photos | Sci4Kids | Search
         About ARS Info | Site map | Policies | E-mail us
