http://www.ohio.doe.gov/pcd/TechSupport.html


                              February 16, 2001


   Prospective Offerors:


   This letter provides information regarding Request for Proposal (RFP)
   No. DE-RP24-01OH20130, entitled “Ohio Field Office Technical Support
   Services Contract.”  The solicitation is available on the Internet at
   and http://www.ohio.doe.gov/.  No paper copies will be issued.


   This RFP is a competitive 8(a) set-aside under North American Industry
   Classification System (NAICS) 541690 ($5 million size standard).  The
   Department of Energy (DOE) Ohio Field Office (OH) is requesting
   interested, qualified, and eligible 8(a) certified firms to submit
   proposals and compete for the award of a firm-fixed price task order
   support services contract to provide technical support services to the
   Department of Energy-Ohio Field Office which includes the support
   office as well as our five project sites.


   This letter provides only an executive summary of the salient elements
   of the RFP.  It is not an integral part of the RFP.  The RFP will
   prevail should there be any inconsistencies.  Offerors are cautioned to
   carefully examine the entire RFP and the requirements contained
   therein.


   The successful contractor shall provide resources on an as required
   basis to efficiently manage and perform assigned task orders.  The
   anticipated scope of work involves:  (1) environment, safety, and
   health support, (2) safeguards and security, and (3) project management
   support.


   The technical requirements are specified in the Statement of Work (SOW)
   listed in Attachment A to Section J of the RFP.  Under the proposed
   contract, the contractor shall furnish all personnel, and services
   required (except as may be expressly furnished by the government).  The
   government contemplates award of a Firm-Fixed Price Indefinite Delivery
   (Indefinite Quantity) Contract for services with travel and training to
   be on a cost reimbursable basis. It is anticipated that task orders
   will be issued requiring the contractor to provide a firm-fixed price
   toward accomplishment of one or more specific tasks.


   So the government may expedite its evaluation process, it is requested
   that offerors voluntarily submit the “Offeror’s Past Performance
   Reference Information” included in Section L, Attachment 5, within 21
   days after issuance of the solicitation.


   Offerors are advised that the proposed hours set forth in the RFP in
   Section B under clause B-2., Price Schedule are for determining
   contract value and pricing purposes only.  Actual required services may
   be significantly different than those depicted based on changing
   program requirements.


   Proposals will be evaluated in accordance with the specific evaluation
   criteria delineated in Section M of the RFP.  The contract is
   anticipated to be awarded within 90 days after receipt of proposals.

   Complete proposals are due on the date and time shown in Block 9 of the
   Standard Form (SF) 33.  Any costs associated with the preparation of
   your proposal are to be borne by your firm.  Proposals may be
   hand-carried or mailed.  Please be advised it is DOE’s policy to
   discourage “brochuremanship” and unnecessarily costly proposal
   preparation.  To ensure that the resources of both offerors and
   evaluators are efficiently utilized, proposals should be prepared with
   maximum economy and consistent with the particulars of this
   procurement.  Complete details concerning the submittal of proposals
   are specified in the RFP.


   Applicable documents referenced in the RFP are available for your
   perusal at the Ohio Field Office, FOIA Reading Room which is open
   Monday – Friday 9:00AM – 4:00PM in the Old OSE Cafeteria at the Mound
   Site in Miamisburg, OH. Some documents are available on the various
   home pages listed in Section L of the RFP.


   Offerors are advised that Sections A through J of the enclosed RFP is a
   model contract.  The government intends to evaluate proposals and award
   a contract without discussions with offerors.  Therefore, each initial
   offer should contain the offeror’s best terms from a cost/price and
   technical standpoint.  However, the government reserves the right to
   conduct discussions if later determined to be necessary by the
   Contracting Officer.  Offerors are reminded to complete SF 33, Item 15
   and sign and date the offer or its offer may be rejected.


   Potential offerors are encouraged to complete and submit the
   “Notification of Intention to Propose” form (included as Section L,
   Attachment 4) to Barry Kain as soon as possible after receiving this
   solicitation.


   Requests for any information and questions concerning this RFP must be
   in writing and directed to the DOE point of contact (POC), Barry Kain,
   Contract Specialist, at telephone number (937) 865-3250, FAX number
   (937) 865-3843, or e-mail barry.kain@ohio.doe.gov.  Questions should be
   submitted not later than seven days (i.e., February 23, 2000) from the
   date of this letter and when possible should be phrased to permit “YES”
   or “NO” responses.  All recipients of this RFP are cautioned to contact
   only the designated DOE POC until after the contract is awarded, and
   carefully read the RFP details relevant to proposal preparation and
   submission.


   Enclosed is the Source List compiled from firms who submitted
   expressions of interest in response to the presolicitation notice
   published in the Commerce Business Daily.


                           Sincerely,




                           /s/

                           Barry E. Kain

                           Contracting Officer

                           Ohio Field Office

                           Office of Acquisition and Asset Management


   Model Contracts
    1. 8A Model Contract (pdf format) - Posted (June 22, 2001)
    2. 8A Model Contract - Section J (pdf format) - Posted (June 22, 2001)

   Amendments
    1. Amendment 1 (pdf format)
    2. Amendment 2 (pdf format) - Posted (March 08, 2001)
    3. Amendment 3 (pdf format) - Posted (March 14, 2001)
    4. Amendment 4 (pdf format) - Posted (March 28, 2001)
    5. Amendment 5 (pdf format) - Posted (April 03, 2001)

   Source List
    1. Cover Letter (pdf format)
    2. Solicitation (pdf format)
    3. Section J - Contract Attachments (pdf format)
    4. Section L - Solicitation Attachments (pdf format)
    5. Jason Source List (pdf format)
