http://wags.gsfc.nasa.gov/portfolio/

                    clear      clear clear
                    wags graphic     portfolio page clear
                    site links
   clear
   clear clear NASA-Wide Projects
   Digital Earth Site
   Digital Earth Logo
   Functional NASA Logo
   ISE Web Site
   LISA Web Site
   NASA's AfterSchool Site
   Virtual Sys Design Env
   Goddard WWW Tools
   Action Item System
   SEN Science Database
   CSR User Interface
   SARS System
   TSR User Interface
   Goddard Organizations
   AAA Web Site
   ISC Logo
   ISC Web Site
   MSB Web Site
   NEB Graphics
   SEACD Web Site
   SPDF Logo
   SPDF Site
   WAGS Web Site
   Local Goddard Projects
   EO-1 Poster
   EO-1 Website
   Graphics Presentation
   IDC Web Site
   Triana Logo
   Triana Website

   On this page, you'll find a sampling of our graphics, web sites, user
   interfaces, posters and presentations. Scroll down the page or use the
   links to the left . In many cases you can trace the development of a
   site's graphics, such as those of this site (WAGS) and EO-1.

   Email Steve Sabia or Brian Drake with inquiries.
   link to slideshow

   NASA-Wide Projects

   LISA Web Site

     "The LISA mission will consist of three spacecraft forming an
     equilateral triangle with a distance of five million kilometers
     between any two spacecraft. Gravitational waves passing through the
     solar system will generate small
     changes in the distance between the spacecraft." With LISA, we were
     challenged with creating a central web site and also a consistent
     navigation scheme for the multitude of LISA-related sites. To solve
     this problem we went with a framed design that enables all of the
     related LISA sites to employ a consistent navigation scheme -- in
     the most minimal and least intrusive way possible.

     Design by Steve Sabia.
     HTML by Spencer Hollon.


   Top of Page


   Intelligent Synthesis Environment (ISE) Web Site

     ISE Web Site (internal page) This is the final design for the ISE
     program's internal web site. The design incorporates some of the
     ideas behind ISE, an all-encmpassing program intended to change the
     way working together happens at NASA. The sweeping bridge or wing
     shape illustrates ISE's ideal of bringing together the diverse,
     widespread engineering community.

     Designed with the maintainers in mind, the internal pages (as seen
     here) are very easy to change and update.

     In addition to the web site, some initial logo designs were also
     developed for the ISE program.

     Design by Chris Fleming.


   Top of Page


   Digital Earth Office Website

     digital earth website Digital Earth is a new US Government wide
     initiative to integrate all georeferenced data about the earth into
     one place and supply one unified interface to navigate through it.
     The most important facts about Digital Earth are captured in the
     graphics - digital earth is a viewer/visualization of 3d,
     georeferenced, time based sea of data. This is the actual site for
     the Digital Earth office at NASA which manages the project.

     Design and Graphics by Steve Sabia.
     HTML by Spencer Hollon.
     CGI Programming by Chris Durachka.

   Top of Page

   Digital Earth Office Logo

     digital earth logo This logo represents -- in the minimal number of
     lines and forms -- the concept of multiple views of the earth, which
     is what Digital Earth will supply to the end user.

     A logo must be simple in design so that it can be recognizable in
     very small to very large sizes. The "views" (rounded square shapes)
     in the logo offer the opportunity to insert detailed imagery into
     larger versions. See the logo incorporated into a business card
     design and used in a more lush design on the Digital Earth Office
     Website.
     Design by Steve Sabia.


   Top of Page

   Nasa Navball

     nasa logo Given the internal debate over web site branding and the
     NASA logo among NASA's webmasters, Steve Sabia devised this novel
     approach. The simple and elegant solution supplied? Make the NASA
     logo functional. This page includes a number of mockups of the idea.
     Naturally the functional logo can be edited to include any links
     that apply to the specific site or that appeal to the web
     designer/customer.

     Design and Flash by Steve Sabia.
     DHTML and HTML versions by Spencer Hollon.

   Top of Page


   NASA Afterschool.gov Website

     nasa afterschool
     This site is still under development. Much more is planned both in
     design and content. Visit the demo site: NASA.AFTERSCHOOL.GOV is
     part of a larger government wide effort to have each agency promote
     learning opportunities for middle school kids and teachers. The
     higher level site is simply afterschool.gov. This portion will be
     come the NASA portion of that site. We are in the early stages of
     development now.

     This was a collaborative effort from Steve Sabia and Chris Fleming.


   Top of Page

   VSDE Virtual System Design Environment

     VSDE image
     Our assignment for VSDE was to VERY QUICKLY design a splash page (
     rev 2 -- rev1) and banner graphics (rev 1 -- rev 2) before an
     impending demo to make the program look slick and to capture the
     spirit and purpose of the tool. Later banners (rev 3) were designed
     to be lighter in feel to mesh with the application's new
     Javascript-generated interface.
     The imagery contains ideas of COMMUNICATION, COLLABORATION in a
     DISTRIBUTED DESIGN ENVIRONMENT and visual analogs to THOUGHTS,
     IMAGES and IDEAS mixing to CREATE an end product --the purpose and
     goals of this web-based tool.

     The user interface design integrates the mood, colors and graphical
     elements of the splash page into a clean design with the user's
     focus drawn to the white data zones. The tabs pointing INTO the page
     change the content within that page, whereas the tabs that point OUT
     of the page are for external viewers or links that launch tools or
     browser windows outside of the current window. The tabs serve both
     as function lists and as visual indications of the user's LOCATION
     within the UI.

     In addition to web application work, we've also designed posters
     (poster 1, poster 2), brochures and other promotional materials for
     VSDE, creating a strong branding package. Everything associated with
     the VSDE project is instantly recognizable because of its strong,
     consistent, and original imagery.
     This was a collaborative effort from Steve Sabia and Chris Fleming.

   Top of Page


   Goddard WWW Tools

   AI: Action Items Tracking System

     action item graphic
     In today's world, action items levied against members of an
     organization, are created from several sources through different
     avenues (whether by email, voice mail, in meetings, or by word of
     mouth, resulting in actions going uncompleted either because the
     action was forgotten, misplaced or miscommunicated.
     The Action Item (AI) System centralizes and organizes all action
     items for a particular organization and reminds people (via email
     reminders) when each action is nearing or has surpassed the due
     date. The AI System further simplifies the action item tracking
     process by allowing users to access the action item database through
     a user friendly web interface.
     The Action Item System is a web application developed by WAGS and is
     available on a limited basis to groups who run on their own server
     such as UNIX and Windows NT. This screenshot shows the main page for
     a particular end user.
     This was a collaborative effort from Kenny Neher and Chris Durachka.

   Top of Page

   SEN Science Database

     [SENslice.gif] The SEN Science Database has a slick, integrated user
     interface that enables the SEN team to quickly and easily manage
     their science network connections. Our programming and visual teams
     worked together, as always, to create a useable, interesting
     environment for the customer.
     The initial SEN work, then called ATM, involved coming up with a
     banner graphic and layout quickly for a rapid prototype. This
     example page from the initial prototype design shows how progress is
     made from the initial idea to the finished product.

     Design by Steve Sabia.

   Top of Page


   CSR: Communications Service Request

     screenshot of CSR
     The Communications Service Request (CSR) System is a Web Form Task
     Management and Tracking Processing Tool that enables forms
     processing through the Web. The current CSR System is customized for
     NASA/Goddard Space Flight Center and NASCOM/NASA Communications,
     Code 240.
     Users can submit a CSR for review and approval. The originator of
     the CSR and service support assignees are automatically notified
     when the CSR has been approved. Applicable personnel are
     automatically notified when the CSR is completed or canceled.
     Statistics are maintained on CSR completion times.
     Some representative screenshots of the CSR are available:
     Original CSR Home page    New CSR Home page     CSR Home with
     Expanded Menu CSR Status page    CSR with Expanded Sub-Menu     New
     CSR (Request)     CSR Statistics page     CSR Statistics Results
     page
     This was a collaborative effort from: (Front End Design) Steve
     Sabia, Chris Fleming, Spencer Hollon. Kenny Neher and (Back End Web
     Application) Elfrieda Harris, Stuart Dogger, Kenny Neher.

   Top of Page


   TSR Web Application User Interface

     The TSR is a web based work flow tracking application that supports
     requests for telephone and telecom installation and maintenance
     around the center. A GSFC employee can request services that are
     then assigned and tracked by the system through email alerts. Each
     request goes through a lifecycle during which various actions are
     allowed by various actors in the system from the requester, to the
     assignee of the task to the telecom coordinator for the center. At
     each stage, email alerts are sent to notify the actors of the
     request's status.
     Take a look at screenshots of some of the user interface:
     TSR Homepage   Create a TSR   TSR Feedback page
     On this system we built a CGI/PERL based back end with an
     HTML/JAVASCRIPT front end. Minimal graphic design was added to help
     organize the pages. The graphics were created, sliced up and built
     into html pages. Then perl code was written to create modular
     reusable code elements to build the html pages dynamically. This is
     a GSFC only site so we show screen shots rather than link you to the
     live site.


   Top of Page


   Secure Access Request System (SARS) Web Application

     SARS logo The SARS is a secure, web based gateway security
     application that supports requests for new pathways through security
     routers. A GSFC systems administrator can request access to servers.
     These requests are then tracked, and automatically closed on a
     specified date or an email message is sent alerting the requester
     about submitting a renewal. Throughout the process, email alerts are
     sent to notify the user and administrators involved in the process.
     This system was built using a secure CGI/PERL based back end with an
     HTML/JAVASCRIPT front end. Minimal graphic design was added to help
     organize the pages. This is a secure, password-only site, so show
     screen shots rather than the live site.

     Interface and Programming by Chris Durachka.
     Logo by Chris Fleming.


   Top of Page

   Goddard Organizations

   Space Physics Data Facility Logo

     SPDF logo This logo demonstrates the Sun-Earth relationship. The
     abstracted magnetosphere serves to tie together the chief themes
     that define the SPDF and it's work.
     Design by Steve Sabia.

   Top of Page


   Space Physics Data Facility Website

     screenshot of SPDF The Space Physics Data Facility housed at the
     Goddard Space Flight Center offers tools and resources to the Space
     Physics Community. The SPDF website has interactive tools that allow
     researchers to examine a wide variety of physical data collected by
     various NASA satellites. A chief portion of the science of Space
     Physics is dedicated to the Sun-Earth relationship and the
     magnetosphere. This site design creates a smooth visual interface
     for the disparate tools and information pages. Designed with the
     customers in mind the internal pages (as seen here) are very easy to
     maintain. The pages will accept virtually any content in any one of
     it's content zones without breaking.

     This was a collaborative effort from Steve Sabia, Chris Fleming, and
     Spencer Hollon.

   Top of Page



   Systems Engineering & Advanced Concepts Division Web Site

     SEACD splach page thumbnail
     The Systems Engineering & Advanced Concepts Division, or SEACD,
     wanted a look that was technical and professional, and at the same
     time they did not want to be seen as unfriendly or intimidating.

     We incorporated these goals into their web site design by using
     "techy" pinlines and grids working against rounded shapes, using a
     subtle colour scheme, and by including images of people --
     especially people enjoying their work together in technical settings
     -- as warming and humanizing elements.

     This project is nearing the end of the design phase.

     Design by Chris Fleming.


   Top of Page



   AAA/588 Branch Website

     AAA logo The Advanced Architectures and Automation (AAA) Branch
     database driven Website Mockup -
     This is another database driven site template effort for a branch at
     NASA/GSFC. On this site we concentrated on creating a flexible,
     reusable html user interface from which our users could interact
     with our Cold Fusion database. This single template was able to
     accommodate all forms of AAA organizational and project information.
     This design was done cooperatively with the 588 Usability Lab.

     Design by Steve Sabia.

   Top of Page

   ISC Logos

     ISC logo

     Download Official Logo Versions
     Trace the Development of the ISC Logo

     This is a typical logo development cycle from sketches to final
     designs. About 8-10 iterations with 8-10 images per iteration. At
     each stage there is a lot of feedback between the designer and
     customers to create and target a particular look and feel and
     content for the logo.

     Design by Steve Sabia.

   Top of Page


   ISC Website

     screenshot of CSR Visit the LIVE ISC Website built from our
     Graphics/HTML/Javascript Templates
     Trace the development of the Template Design

     The site is built from templates that serve as a database front end
     for the site. It is more USER INTERFACE than website. It was built
     with HTML, Javascript and Coldfusion. These templates were turned
     over to a team of COLD FUSION programmers and content developers to
     flesh out. Therefore it was vitally important that they be well
     designed, graphically and programmatically, since any errors here
     would be propagated through the entire new site.
     The graphic design was mandated to be MINIMAL yet still achieve some
     personality and liveliness. Emphasis was on usability and clean,
     simple graphic design to enhance usability by having strong clear
     visual structure that echoes the information structure. This design
     was done cooperatively with the 588 Usability Lab. This site
     implements many of the principles outlined in Steve Babies
     Presentation on Graphic Design for Usability.

     Design by Steve Sabia.


   Top of Page

   MSB/520 Branch Website

     radar dish image Micro Electronics Systems Branch (MSB)Web Site -
     This is one of our first designs from back in the day (1995). Its a
     frame based interface to the branches public data. The trick here
     was to make the frames invisible to the user. Emphasis on quick easy
     navigation and graphic design to support that goal. The visual
     structure matches and reveals the information structure which helps
     the user navigate through it visually/subconsciously. The graphic
     design effectively leads the eye to the important information and
     navigation.

     Design by Steve Sabia.

   Top of Page

   NEB/290 Branch Graphics and Logo

     NEB logo Using imagery that speaks of space communications and
     networking we helped the NEB to create strong family of related
     imagery for their web site and logo. We started with the splash
     page, then made a related banner graphic for internal web pages and
     finally a vector graphics based logo/decal that could be resized
     from decal to poster size without loss of quality.

     Graphics were created by Steve Sabia.

   Top of Page




   WAGS Website

     wags graphic Trace the Development of the graphics for THIS site
     (WAGS) .
     The sites web graphics had to show a flair for drama, movement,
     action which is what the web and WAGS work is all about! This site
     is very new, preliminary in design and still under construction.

     Design by Steve Sabia.

   Top of Page


   Local Goddard Projects

   Integrated Design Capability Labs Web Site

     IDC portal page The Integrated Design Capability is a network of
     labs (currently the Integrated Mission Design Center and the
     Instrument Synthesis and Analysis Lab) catering to mission
     engineering projects at GSFC, NASA and beyond.

     IDC asked us to give their main site an interesting, ULTRAclean look
     that could act as a portal to the IDC's lab sites. We then
     transferred this look and feel to their labs, shown here using the
     ISAL.

     Design by Chris Fleming.


   Top of Page

   EO-1 Poster

     pic of EO-1 poster View Final Version of the EO-1 Poster.
     View Semifinal Versions of the EO-1 Poster.
     View 2nd CutVersions of the EO-1 Poster.
     View First Cut Designs for the EO-1 Poster.
     Read about concept development for the EO-1 Poster.

     The EO-1 Poster is an ongoing project. This poster is not a
     technical poster - its purpose is to catch the eye of the viewer and
     speak to the spirit of the EO-1 mission. These images are the FIRST
     PHASE of poster development; the IDEA GENERATION PHASE. From these,
     a visual concept will be chosen, then that idea will be explored in
     detail with a series of images created of that concept. Finally, one
     will be chosen and polished for printing.

     View concept for EO-1 die cut flyer that unfurls like the
     spacecraft's solar array.

     Design and Illustration by Steve Sabia.


   Top of Page


   EO-1 Website

     screenshot of EO-1 website Visit the Earth Observing-1 (EO-1) Web
     Site
     Trace the Development of the EO-1 Splash Graphics from lame to cool.

     This site is the PRELAUNCH site for the EO-1 satellite. Emphasis on
     this site was on creating a visual identity for EO-1 and carrying it
     through the site. Customers wanted the site to be lively and dynamic
     in feel. They wanted a stand out site from the mass of NASA mission
     sites with graphic flash and personality but not at the price of
     sacrificing usability, good information architecture and navigation.
     We believe the graphic design supports the information architecture
     and navigation while also achieving the goals of flashy and
     colorful. Compare this site to many other NASA satellite mission
     sites at Destination Earth. It is listed as ALI after its most
     important instrument. We think you'll find it in the high end of the
     quality, usability and visually uniqueness scales. In fact, this
     site is highly regarded around GSFC, so much so that it was
     "borrowed" as the template for the LANDSAT 7 site.

     Design and Illustration by Steve Sabia.


   Top of Page


   Graphics Presentation

     View presentation ON - LINE
     Download Steve Sabia's Presentation on Graphic Design for Usability
     This presentation has been given 3 times in the last year to full
     rooms and has been well received. It focuses on WHY you should
     create web graphics not HOW. There are plenty of books on the
     latter, few on the former. The talk is focused specifically on
     information heavy graphic design as are most NASA sites. It
     discusses how to create graphic designs that enhance usability NOT
     simply going for the WOW factor. It will give you some theory and
     understanding of why you should choose particular colors, shapes,
     visual relationships. This leads to an ability to understand design
     and evaluate graphic designs.

     Presentation by Steve Sabia.


   Top of Page

   Triana Logo

     View Triana Logo Comps

     In these files you can see the experimentation a designer goes
     through while working in customer desires and comments to design a
     logo. After some initial experimentation and discussion, the Triana
     team decided they wanted a logo/mission patch that stood out from
     the crowd. We decided to do a black and white logo with 1 color in
     the title.

     Triana will take FULL DISK images of the earth from the L1 point. It
     will also study the effects of solar radiation on the earths climate
     and attempt to predict the effects of solar storms and other
     magnetic interference that may affect communications. Therefore the
     sun rays interacting with the earth is a big part of the design. The
     Moon will also move through the image field once a month and
     wonderful images of the entire earth and moon together will result.
     Therefore the idea of the logo design is to capture the
     sun/earth/moon relationship in a unique way.

     Design by Steve Sabia.

   Top of Page

   Triana Website

     View our Template Design the Triana developers used to build the
     LIVE Triana Site.

     The Triana project wanted our help designing an overall template for
     their site to give it a unique, clean graphical look with easy,
     consistent navigation all in a framework that could easily grow with
     the growing content.

     Design by Steve Sabia.


   Top of Page





   Nasa Official: Brian Drake Author/Curator : Steve Sabia    Privacy
   Statement
   functional nasa logo
