http://www.dot.ca.gov/hq/roadinfo/chcontrl.htm


                    Welcome to California California Home


   Pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, Yosemite Half Dome and cypress tree




                Caltrans Home
                Highway Information Home
                Winter Driving Tips
                Chain Installation
                Chain Chart
                Mountain Pass Closures
                Snow and Ice Control Program
                Department of Water Resources Snow Conditions



   Winter Operations



   __________ [BUTTON Input] (not implemented)______
   (*) My CA ( ) This Site


   Controls - Snow Tires, Traction Devices

   Snow Tires

      The California vehicle code section 558 defines a snow-tread tire as
      follows, " A 'Snow-tread tire' is a tire which has a relatively deep
      and aggressive tread pattern compared with conventional passenger tread
      pattern". Snow-tread tires can be identified by examining the sidewall
      of the tire where the letters MS, M/S, M+S or the words MUD AND SNOW
      have been stamped into the sidewall.

   Tire Traction Devices

      The California vehicle code section 605 defines tire traction devices
      as follows: " Tire Traction Devices are devices or mechanisms having a
      composition and design capable of improving vehicle traction, braking
      and cornering ability upon snow or ice-covered surfaces. Tire traction
      devices shall be constructed and assembled to provide sufficient
      structural integrity and to prevent accidental detachment from
      vehicles. Tire traction devices shall, at the time of manufacture or
      final assembly, bear a permanent impression indicating the name,
      initials or trademark of the assembling company or primary
      manufacturer, and the country in which the devices were manufactured or
      assembled in final form."

      If you would like to view a full version of the California Vehicle Code
      it can be located at the following location, under California Law:
      http//www.leginfo.ca.gov

      The Department of Transportation does not sell nor recommend specific
      brands of Tire Chains. It is best to check your vehicle manufacturers
      specifications for use of tire chains.

   Types of Chain Controls

      During the winter months motorists may encounter traction device
      controls in the mountain areas of California. When chain controls are
      established signs along side the road will be opened indicating the
      type of requirement. There are three requirements in California.

      Requirement One (R1): Chains are required, snow tires are allowed.

      Requirement Two (R2): Chains are required on all vehicles except four
      wheel drive vehicles
      with snow tires on all four wheels.
      (NOTE: Four wheel drive vehicles must carry traction devices in chain
      control areas)

      Requirement Three (R3): Chains are required on all vehicles, no
      exceptions.

      A chart depicting the proper placement of traction devices is available
      in Adobe Portable Document format. You can easily print this file for
      your records. When printing the file use the printer button in the
      Acrobat Reader not the printer button from your browser. If you do not
      have the most current version of Acrobat Reader from Adobe click here
      to download.



                             Back to Top of Page
    © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
