http://www.msnd.uscourts.gov/ayers5_8_2001.pdf

   IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF
   MISSISSIPPI GREENVILLE DIVISION JAKE AYERS, JR., et al, PLAINTIFFS and
   UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, PLAINTIFF/INTERVENOR v. CIVIL ACTION NO.
   4:75cv9-B-D RONNIE MUSGROVE, GOVERNOR, STATE OF MISSISSIPPI, et al,
   DEFENDANTS ORDER SCHEDULING HEARING AND DIRECTING NOTICE TO THE CLASS
   Came on to be considered this day the joint motion of the Parties in
   the above styled and numbered cause, moving the Court to approve a
   Settlement Agreement negotiated and submitted by the Parties. The
   proposed Settlement Agreement was signed by Congressman Bennie G.
   Thompson, as representative of the Class of Plaintiffs; John R. Moore,
   attorney with the Civil Rights Division, U. S. Department of Justice;
   Ronnie Musgrove, Governor, State of Mississippi; Mike Moore, Attorney
   General, State of Mississippi; Carl Nicholson, Jr., President of the
   Board of Trustees of State Institutions of Higher Learning; and their
   respective counsel. Having submitted a Settlement Agreement proposal to
   the Court, the named Parties request a hearing to obtain required Court
   approval and issuance of Notice to the Class of Plaintiffs to advise
   them of the terms of the Agreement and their right to object thereto. 1
   In considering a proposed settlement agreement in a class action and
   whether it contains a fair settlement for all persons affected thereby,
   the court has the following three options: 1. Reject the settlement in
   toto; 2. Accept the settlement in toto; or 3. Reject the settlement
   with suggestions which could lead to an acceptance. Evans v. Jeff D.,
   475 U.S. 717, 729, 89 L. Ed. 2d, 747, 757, 106 S. Ct. 1531 (1986).
   After mature consideration of the Settlement Agreement, the Court has
   serious reservations about parts of the proposed plan. The Court
   described said reservations to the Parties and their attorneys at a
   conference held in chambers on March 30, 2001. These reservations fall
   into three main areas: 1. THE SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT CALLS FOR MERELY
   SUBSTITUTING ONE COURT-ORDERED PLAN FOR ANOTHER. The Parties' proposed
   settlement is not a settlement in the pure sense of that term in which
   the Parties come to the Court, advise the Court that they have resolved
   their differences, and no longer need the Court's involvement in the
   case. Rather, in this plan presented by the Parties, the Court is
   requested to sign an order which would bind the Mississippi Legislature
   to fund the Parties' plan with a specified amount of tax dollars each
   year for the next seventeen years.1 This order would replace the order
   previously entered in 1995 which funds the Court's plan. The Court's
   plan, formulated after a lengthy trial, has been substantially affirmed
   on appeal, has been 1Exhibit A, attached hereto, sets forth a summary
   schedule of proposed Ayers funding under the Settlement Agreement. 2 in
   the process of implementation since that time, and is, for the most
   part, completed.2 2. COST TO TAXPAYERS IS HIGHER IN PARTIES' PLAN. The
   Parties' proposed plan is more costly in tax dollars than the Court's
   plan. An example of this additional cost is that in the Parties'
   settlement proposal, Jackson State University (JSU) would be given
   approximately sixty-eight million dollars ($68,000,000.00) during the
   first six years of the plan for "academic program" funds and a share of
   a seventy million dollar ($70,000,00.00) tax-funded endowment created
   by the plan to fund sixteen new programs and enhance two other
   programs. In 1998, The Board of Trustees of State Institutions of
   Higher Learning (The Board), in response to the Court's Remedial
   Decree, advised the Court that substantially all of these programs
   could be established at a cost of approximately thirty-one million
   dollars ($31,000,000.00) for the first six years, less than half the
   amount given to JSU under the Parties' plan during the first six years.
   In addition, it is anticipated by the Board that the new programs
   ordered by the Court will become self-sustaining after several years
   and will need no more special funding; but, under the Parties' plan,
   special funding would continue for seventeen years as called for by
   this plan. Another example is that in the proposed settlement plan, JSU
   is given twenty million dollars ($20,000,000.00) for a building to
   house the engineering program that has already been ordered as a part
   of the Court's plan. The Board previously advised the Court that the
   cost of such a building would be ten million dollars ($10,000,000.00)
   in carrying out the Court's Remedial 2 This court issued an order on
   January 10, 2001, pointing out that all significant expenditures at JSU
   have been completed. The Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit ordered
   The Board in 1997 to submit a plan for dealing with desegregation of
   the Delta, but that order has yet to be complied with. 3 Decree. Other
   increased costs are also present in the settlement proposal, such as a
   nine million dollar ($9,000,000.00) fine arts building for Alcorn State
   University (ASU) and the purchase of an office building, now empty and
   formerly occupied by State Farm, for JSU, neither of which was ordered
   nor was contemplated in the Court's 1995 Decree. Other increased costs
   in the Parties' plan are also present. The Court has a serious
   reservation about ordering a state legislature to appropriate funds in
   amounts beyond that which has been held necessary to meet
   constitutional requirements. Of course, the Legislature could
   appropriate on a voluntary basis whatever funds it pleases above those
   found by the Court to be necessary to meet constitutional mandates.3 3.
   THE PARTIES' PLAN ACKNOWLEDGES ONLY IN A CURSORY FASHION THE HEART OF
   THIS CASE, DESEGREGATION. While conventional wisdom is under the
   misconception that this case is primarily about unequal funding of
   historically black universities, the true issue in this case, the issue
   upon which the case has been tried at every court hearing, is
   desegregation. The main reason why funding of universities has been
   addressed in this case is for the purpose of determining whether
   instituting some additional academic programs and policies at
   historically black universities will attract white students, and
   whether some programs at the historically white universities may
   attract black students. As the Court has emphasized in previous
   opinions, the universities have no constitutional status as to any
   category of funding; rather, it is the students who have a 3Likewise,
   the private endowment of thirty-five million dollars ($35,000,000.00)
   referred to in the Settlement Agreement needs no approval of the Court
   for it to be started. Moreover, the Court has no jurisdiction in this
   case to order any person to establish or not establish private
   endowments. 4 constitutional right to equal educational opportunities.
   This case has never been about attracting international students to
   historically black or white universities, or creating a multi-racial
   diversity of students at universities. This cause has always had the
   theme of eradicating any policies of the State, via educationally
   reasonable means, which prevent black students from attending
   historically white universities or which may channel black students to
   historically black universities and white students to historically
   white universities. The Court's Remedial Decree in 1995 equalized
   admission standards of the State's universities, and thereby addressed
   the concerns of the Supreme Court about state policies which channel
   black students to historically black universities or prevent some from
   attending historically white universities. If a student is qualified to
   matriculate at one of the historically black universities of the State,
   he or she is qualified to attend any of the historically white
   universities. This being so, it is clear that African-American students
   in Mississippi now have public institutions of higher learning
   available to them to attend which are equal in quality to the
   institutions of higher learning which white students have available to
   them to attend, in that all eight public institutions of higher
   learning are equally available to both black and white students.
   Contrary to the Court's plan, the Parties' plan contains a racial
   quota. The quota requires historically black universities to reach a
   ten per cent "other-race" student body over a period of seventeen years
   to be eligible for control of certain funds in a seventy million dollar
   ($70,000,000.00) endowment created by the Parties' plan. The term
   "other-race" in the Settlement Agreement is defined as "non
   African-American." By this definition, the ten per cent quota could be
   reached with students from Asia, South America, or other such
   nationalities, with 5 few or no white students attending the
   institution. Even foreign students from Nigeria would be considered
   "other race" at the historically black universities under the Parties'
   plan. Such is not desegregation within the context of this case. The
   most recent information shows that the average percentage of white
   students at public historically black four-year universities in the
   South is 15.1 per cent.4 The historically white universities in
   Mississippi average 26 per cent black students in their student bodies,
   without counting Asians, and other such nationalities. The Court has a
   serious reservation about that part of the Parties' plan which allows
   Asians, Indians, and even some black students to be counted toward
   desegregation at historically black universities. Another provision of
   the Parties, supposedly inserted to address desegregation but which
   raises serious questions about its effectiveness to do so, is that part
   which calls for adding certain academic programs at Mississippi Valley
   State University (MVSU). A significant portion of those programs is
   already offered at nearby Delta State University (DSU), approximately
   forty miles away, and therefore merely duplicates DSU's present
   offerings and would not promote desegregation by attracting white
   students to MVSU. As has been seen in other states and as was pointed
   out in the Court's Remedial Decree, when new academic programs are
   instituted at historically black universities which merely duplicate
   existing programs at nearby historically white universities, the effect
   is not to help desegregation but rather to decrease existing areas of
   desegregation, by causing black students taking those courses at
   historically white universities to leave and go to historically black
   universities for the same courses. 4Frederick D. Patterson Research
   Institute of The United Negro College Fund. 6 The Supreme Court
   admonished the Plaintiffs in this case when it said: If we understood
   [Plaintiffs] to press us to order the upgrading of Jackson State,
   Alcorn State, and Mississippi Valley State solely so that they may be
   publicly financed, exclusively black enclaves by private choice, we
   reject that request. United States v. Fordice, 505 U.S. 717, 743, 112
   S. Ct. 2727, 2742 (1992). FAIRNESS HEARING The Court advised the
   Parties at the March 30 in-chambers conference that, notwithstanding
   the Court's reservations about the Parties' proposed plan, the required
   legal test of whether a fairness hearing should be held appears to have
   been met, that is, whether there is a possibility that the proposed
   plan can be approved as is or approved with suggested changes.
   Armstrong v. Bd. of School Dirs., 616 F.2d 305,314 (7th Cir. 1980). The
   proposal must be fair and reasonable "- and in the best interest of all
   those who will be affected by it." Austin v. Pennsylvania Dept. of
   Corrs., 876 F.Supp.1437, 1456 (E.D. Pa. 1995); 7B Wright, Miller &
   Kane, Federal Practice and Procedure: Civil 2d ยง 1797.1 at 378 (1986).
   The primary objective of requiring final court approval of class action
   settlements is to protect the interests of those "- whose rights may
   not have been given adequate consideration during the settlement
   negotiations." In re: Jiffy Lube Securities Litigation, 927 F.2d 155,
   158 (4th Cir. 1991). Ordinarily, in class actions, the court gives
   notice of a proposed settlement only to the members of the plaintiff
   class; however, in a case such as the one in which the State of
   Mississippi is named a defendant, and unusually large amounts of tax
   dollars are involved, in addition to the Governor and the Attorney
   General who have spoken for the State, the Court will allow comment
   from other resident Mississippians, in addition to those in the
   plaintiff class. 7 The Court having found that the legal standards have
   been met, IT IS ORDERED: 1. A fairness hearing will be conducted by
   this court on September 4, 2001, at10:00 a.m., at the United States
   Courthouse in Oxford, Mississippi. 2. The Notice of the Proposed
   Settlement of Class Action involving Mississippi's public universities,
   which is attached hereto as Exhibit "B" is approved as the Notice to be
   published. On or before May 21, 2001, The Board, or The Board's
   designee shall cause the Notice to be published in the body of the
   following newspapers: The Clarion-Ledger, Commercial Dispatch, The
   Daily Corinthian, Delta Democrat-Times, Commonwealth, Hattiesburg
   American, Leader- Call, Enterprise-Journal, The Meridian Star, Natchez
   Democrat, The Mississippi Press, Starkville Daily News, Northeast
   Mississippi Daily Journal, The Sun Herald, The Daily Leader, Bolivar
   Commercial, and Vicksburg Post. The defendants shall make copies of the
   Settlement Agreement available on the Board's website, address of
   www.ihl.state.ms.us, and at the main desks of libraries on the main
   campuses of each of the eight universities. This Order and the Notice
   shall be available on this Court's website at www.msnd.uscourts.gov. 3.
   On or before June 15, 2001, the Board shall file with the Clerk of the
   Court and serve upon counsel for the Class and the United States,
   affidavits or declarations establishing that publication of the Notice
   has been made, and the Settlement Agreement has been made available in
   accordance with this Order. 4. By August 5, 2001, counsel for the Class
   and the United States shall file with this Court, and serve on counsel
   for the Defendants, copies of all submissions in support of the 8
   proposed Settlement Agreement. By August 15, 2001, counsel for the
   Defendants shall file with this Court, and serve on counsel for the
   Class and the United States, copies of all submissions in support of
   the proposed Settlement Agreement. 5. Every resident citizen of the
   State, including Class Members, has the right to present his or her
   position on this proposed Agreement to the District Court in accordance
   with the procedures identified below. On or before July 25, 2001, any
   individual Class Member or other resident of the State may personally,
   or by a duly authorized representative of his or her choice, submit a
   written statement in support of, or in opposition to, the fairness,
   reasonableness, or adequacy of the proposal by filing such statement
   with the Clerk of the District Court. If an individual desires to
   actually appear in person at the hearing, the statement of position
   must say so, and no person or his or her counsel shall be heard at the
   hearing and no written statement submitted by any such person shall be
   received or considered by the court, unless such person, on or before
   the above date of July 25, 2001, files with the Clerk of the District
   Court (i) a notice of his or her intention to appear, (ii) a statement
   of the position he or she will assert and the basis for that position.
   The court in its discretion will determine how many and how much time
   will be allotted for personal appearances. The Court will allow a
   representative cross-section of persons in allotting time for personal
   appearances. All submissions are to be filed and served as follows:
   Clerk of the Court -. United States District Court for the Northern
   District of Mississippi - U. S. Courthouse - 911 Jackson Avenue -
   Oxford, Mississippi 38655-0727 9 As indicated above, any individual who
   has properly filed and served his or her position statement on the
   Settlement Agreement may, but need not, appear at the hearing. The
   Court will consider such statement regardless of whether such person
   actually appears. 6. If the Settlement Agreement is not approved, or is
   canceled or terminated, or fails to become effective for any reason,
   then the Agreement shall be void and have no continuing effect; and no
   reference to the fact of an Agreement or the terms thereof shall be
   made in this Court, or any other court, nor sought to be used by any
   person in any proceeding against any of the defendants as an admission
   or indication or evidence of any constitutional or statutory or
   regulatory violation. ORDERED and ADJUDGED, on this the 8TH day of May,
   2001. / S / NEAL B. BIGGERS, JR. SENIOR U. S. DISTRICT JUDGE 10
