http://jlarc.leg.wa.gov/NCSL_2001.html

   jlarc.jpg (39304 bytes)
            Home




   Home
   List of Reports
   Reports
   Summaries
   Meetings
   NCSL 2001
   Work Plan
   Request for Proposal
   JLARC Newsletters
   About JLARC
   Staff
   Employment
   Links
   What's New?

                            Washington State Flag


National Conference of State Legislatures

JLARC members and staff at NCSLs 2001 Meetings

   Members and staff of JLARC participated in four panel sessions
   sponsored by the National Legislative Program Evaluation Society
   (NLPES) at the National Conference of State Legislatures (NCSL) annual
   meeting held in August.  Many legislators and staff attended over 160
   innovative sessions on current issues confronting their states.  This
   annual meeting provides an opportunity for JLARC and other legislative
   program evaluation offices to share best practices, learn new
   techniques, and communicate their work to legislators and staff from
   other states.

   One Fish, Two Fish: Making Regional Environmental Programs and
   Investments Work

    Washington Representative Gary Alexander, one of JLARCs Co-Chairs, and
   Karl Herzog, of JLARCs staff, discussed Washingtons experience with
   regional environmental issues from fiscal and evaluation perspectives,
   focusing on salmon recovery.  Working from the findings of JLARCs
   Investing in the Environment Performance Audit, they discussed the
   distinction between distributing and investing, the importance of
   tracking the results of investments to facilitate adaptive management,
   and the legislative role in fostering cross-agency approaches to
   regional issues.

   Making Regional Environmental Programs and Investments Work
   Gary Alexander, Washington State Representative
   Karl Herzog, Principal Management Auditor

   Other presentations on the panel dealt with  regional environmental
   efforts in Florida and California.

   Jennifer Giambattista: CALFED Bay-Delta Program

   Jennifer Giambattista (California) briefed the audience on a program
   called "CALFED." This is a cooperative state-federal effort aimed at
   solving various water quality and supply problems, as well as restoring
   fish and wildlife habitat, in a large section of northern and central
   California. To date, the primary product of "CALFED" is planning, which
   has presented some challenges for evaluators. Jennifer also explained
   some of the other oversight challenges that this program has presented,
   including the absence of official legislative authorization, a loosely
   configured organizational structure, and complicated budgetary and
   staffing arrangements. In response to these issues, the Legislative
   Analyst's Office recommended, among other things, the creation of a new
   governance structure and the adoption of a "transparent," cross-agency
   budgeting approach to improve accountability. These recommendations,
   when enacted, will enhance accountability and help evaluators and
   others gauge the success of the program in the future.
   Larry Novey: Justification Review State Lands Program

   Larry Novey (Florida) provided an overview of Florida's efforts to
   acquire and manage state lands for the purposes of maintaining
   biodiversity, managing threatened and endangered species, maintaining
   and improving water resources, and providing recreation opportunities.
   Larry explained how Florida's Office of Program Policy and Government
   Accountability recently performed a justification review of the
   "Preservation 2000" program, which is aimed at acquiring and managing
   land for the objectives mentioned previously. Florida also found that
   establishing an integrated data collection and management system is
   essential if evaluators, legislators, and the public are going to gauge
   the success of a regional environmental program like "Preservation
   2000."

                                [ablrule.gif]

   Making the Most of Legislative Oversight

   Panel members, including Washington Representative Val Ogden and Ron
   Perry, former JLARC staff, gave differing views on how performance
   audits and program evaluations can be useful to state legislators.
   Some of the highlights included: using advisory groups of legislators
   and/or interested stakeholders; tailoring the studies scope and
   objectives to meet legislative interests; and communicating results in
   ways that legislators and their staff can easily comprehend:

   Using Advisory Groups
   Ron Perry, former JLARC Staff Supervisor
   Legislative Oversight: A Members Perspective
   Val Ogden, Washington State Representative

   Other panelists and their presentations for this session are listed
   below:

   Roger Brooks: Evaluations that Make a Difference

   Roger Brooks (Minnesota) presented "Evaluations That Make a
   Difference," which focused on ways for legislators and evaluation staff
   to work together to improve legislative oversight of state government.
   Roger suggested six strategies to meet this objective: selecting the
   right topic, building an audience, focusing research on what needs to
   change, creating attractive and readable products, timing evaluations
   appropriately, and spreading evaluation results effectively. Roger also
   provided some observations about measuring the impact of evaluations in
   terms of agency and legislative use.
   Gary VanLandingham: The Art of Legislative Impact

   Gary VanLandingham (Florida) presented his comments on how Florida's
   OPPAGA has tried to maximize its impact with legislators and the
   legislative process. Gary explained how maximizing impact isn't just a
   matter of improving communication-it is a core organizational value.
   Focusing on what a legislature needs and meeting those needs on a
   timely basis is very important if an evaluation agency wants to
   maximize its impact. Gary also explained some "barriers" to impact
   (e.g., overemphasizing independence) and outlined several strategies
   for increasing legislative impact. These included: using a "lobbyist"
   approach, utilizing multiple communication channels, sharing
   information whenever possible, performing ongoing market research to
   identify audit topics, building relationships with senior legislative
   staff and members, and publishing user-friendly reports.

                                [ablrule.gif]

   Hitting the High Pointsand the Bottom Line

   Washington Senator Georgia Gardner made a presentation at the NCSL
   Annual Meeting on how to interpret and communicate performance audit
   information.  Senator Gardner discussed what performance results are
   and are not, how to make results useful to policymakers, and how
   results can best be communicated.

   Georgia Gardner, Washington State Senator:  Hitting the High Pointsand
   the Bottom Line

                                [ablrule.gif]

   The Sunset Process: Still Effective After All These Years?

   The Sunset process is a legislative accountability tool, introduced in
   the 1970s.  Many have questioned whether it still has value today.
   This session looked at the sunset process from four perspectives, with
   experiences ranging from somewhat negative to very positive.  Robert
   Krell, JLARC staff, moderated  the session and discussed his survey on
   the current status of sunset in the states.  Representative Val Ogden,
   JLARC Co-Chair, gave an overview of Washington's experience with
   sunset, highlighting recent changes to our sunset law.

   The Sunset Process: Still Effective After All These Years?
   Rob Krell, Principal Management Auditor
   Improving the Sunset Process in Washington State
   Val Ogden, Washington State Representative

   Ken Levine: Talking Points: Sunset - Still Effective After All These
   Years?

   Ken Levine (Texas) provided an overview of his state's sunset review
   process, which is considered to be one of the most expansive within the
   United States. Overall, the sunset review process has been very
   successful in Texas, due to several factors including strong
   legislative support and the fact that all state agencies are subject to
   this type of review. The strength of the process can be evidenced by
   the fact that approximately 90 percent of the Sunset Advisory
   Commission's 2000-2001 recommendations were enacted by the Legislature.
   In addition, these recommendations resulted in two agencies being
   abolished and five additional agencies being placed on a two-year
   probationary continuation status because of poor performance. Ken also
   outlined some of the cost savings and policy-related recommendations
   that have resulted from Texas' process and provided some tips for
   keeping the process relevant and robust.

   Sen. Randall Gnant: Sunset: The Good The Bad. And lets not get Ugly

   Senator Randall Gnant (Arizona) closed the panel discussion by
   explaining the origins of the sunset review process and outlining some
   common characteristics and goals of processes across the nation.
   Senator Gnant stressed that, above all, the process is more political
   than analytical. Overall, Arizona's experience with sunset review has
   been more good than bad. Senator Gnant also suggested that the process
   can be improved by clarifying goals, choosing topics carefully, and
   obtaining "buy-in" from the stakeholders.
   Jane Thesing: South Carolina Sunset Reviews

   Jane Thesing (South Carolina) explained the history of South Carolina's
   sunset review process, which was terminated in 1998. The objective of
   South Carolina's sunset process was to identify and eliminate
   unnecessary licensing and regulatory agencies. At its peak, all state
   agencies were subject to sunset on a six-year cycle using statutory
   review criteria. In all, the Legislative Audit Council conducted 117
   sunset reviews and recommended termination in 15 cases. Two minor
   agencies were eventually terminated as a result of the process. Jane
   noted that although South Carolina no longer has sunset review, the
   process did have several benefits including: increasing public access
   to licensing and regulatory matters, removing outdated or unnecessary
   restrictions on licensure within the state, and improving
   state-to-state mobility for licensees. Drawbacks of the process
   included the fact that the review process had a negligible effect on
   state funds and the high cost of the audits, considering the low
   return. Jane closed by suggesting that a successful sunset process
   needs to be flexible and goal-oriented.

                                [ablrule.gif]

       The National Conference of State Legislatures is a bipartisan
   organization that serves the legislators and staffs of the nation's 50
   states, its commonwealths and territories. NCSL provides research,
   technical assistance and opportunities for policymakers to exchange
   ideas on the most pressing state issues. NCSL is an effective and
   respected advocate for the interests of state governments before
   Congress and federal agencies.

   The leadership of NCSL -- its 60-member Executive Committee -- is
   composed of legislators and staff from across the country. The NCSL
   Executive Committee provides overall direction on operations of the
   Conference. Two assemblies within NCSL also provide policy direction,
   make recommendations and encourage the exchange of information among
   state legislatures. The Assembly on Federal Issues (AFI) directs NCSL's
   lobbying effort in Washington, D.C. The Assembly on State Issues (ASI)
   serves as a forum for the exchange of ideas and information among state
   legislatures.

   NCSL's Annual Meeting provides the focal point for activities that
   occur throughout the year. In late July or early August, thousands of
   legislators and professional staff members get together for innovative
   sessions on current issues confronting the states. At the Annual
   Business Meeting, the membership of NCSL provides overall direction on
   the leadership, budget and policies that govern the Conference's
   activities.


       The National Legislative Program Evaluation Society (NLPES) is one
   of ten staff sections associated with the National Conference of State
   Legislatures (NCSL). NLPES includes employees of state legislative
   agencies engaged in program evaluation or performance auditing. NLPES
   promotes professionalism, training, and the exchange of ideas and
   information about legislative program evaluation.    Interested persons
   whose professional work precludes membership may request to affiliate
   with NLPES. Affiliates are invited to participate in NLPES activities
   and promote the Society's interests, but only members can vote in NLPES
   elections and hold an elective office. NLPES does not charge dues.

   NLPES holds its Annual Business Meeting in conjunction with NCSL's
   Annual Meeting. The outgoing chair presides over the business meeting
   where staff section activities are discussed, committee reports are
   given and members of the executive committee for the coming year are
   introduced.
