http://geology.cr.usgs.gov/crg/library.htm

    USGS -- DENVER LIBRARY

    SEPERATOR



 Denver Federal Center
 Bldg 20, 2nd Floor
 P.O. Box 25046, MS-914
 Denver, CO 80225      Hours: M-F, 8:00-4:00
                       Librarian 303-236-1004
                       Circulation 303-236-1015
                       Field Records 303-236-1005 Interlibrary loan 303-236-1015
                                                  Reference 303-236-1000
                                                  Photolibrary 303-236-1010
                                                  Fax 303-236-0015
    For questions and additional information you may contact Tommie Ann
 Gard at: tagard@igsdglib01.cr.usgs.gov

   SEPERATOR

Denver Federal Center in Lakewood, Colorado

The Denver Library includes three libraries at one location

   Central Region Library serves all the staff of the U.S. Geological
   Survey, particularly those with offices in the Central Region States.
   It is open to the public for reference use. Inter-library loans may be
   arranged for those users who do not work for the Survey. It is the
   largest federal library in the Rocky Mountain-Plains area. Particular
   strengths are complete sets of foreign scientific journals, extensive
   coverage of USGS publications, and world map coverage. The Denver
   Bureau of Mines Library collection was largely absorbed into this
   library in 1996.

   Field Records Library is an archival collection of materials created or
   collected by USGS scientists during field studies and other project
   work. Field notes, sketches and maps, plane-table sheets, compilation
   maps, aerial photographs (many with annotations), analysis reports,
   stratigraphic logs and columns, geologic sections, drafts of published
   as well as unpublished reports and maps, and project-related
   correspondence are among the materials which may be examined by the
   public. An informal biographical file is also available. The bulk of
   the collection dates from after 1879, and most relates to work done in
   the contiguous United States.

   Photographic Library is an archival collection of still photographs
   dating from the 1870's taken by USGS scientists as part of their field
   studies. The work of pioneer photographers W.H. Jackson, T.H.
   O'Sullivan, C. Watkins, J.K. Hillers, T. Moran, A.J. Russell, E.O.
   Beaman, and W. Bell is represented. Subjects include portraits of USGS
   personnel, earth science subjects, 19th-century mining operations, and
   personnel at work. Reproductions (prints, transparencies, and
   negatives) may be ordered at cost. Because this collection consists of
   more than 300,000 photographs, researchers are encouraged to visit in
   person. Three photo-CD-ROMs, available for purchase, provide an
   overview of the collection. Their topics are: earthquakes, volcanoes,
   geologic hazards and other phenomena, historical mining operations in
   Colorado and Utah, and earth science photographs.


Other Information available at the Library

   Geoscience Education Outreach Center (GEO Center) loans educational
   materials to teachers in the Central Region and to USGS staff speaking
   to the public and in schools. Maps, poster, models of the earth and
   dinosaurs, rock samples, books, videos, and other instructional
   publications and objects compose the collection. Talks and exhibits
   take this outreach activity to the public at sites such as the Colorado
   State Fair, gem and mineral shows, and educational expositions.

   Career and Management Resource Center (CMRC) serves all the Central
   Region USGS and other Interior Department staff. The CMRC incorporates
   the Central Region Outplacement Assistance Center, which assists
   displaced Government employees. The CMRC is a career development
   center, featuring books, videos, audiotapes and newsletters. Job
   announcements (government and non-Government) are posted and accessed
   through the Internet. It is open to the public for reference use.

   Central Region Library is part of the USGS Library System, which is
   developing a combined computer-based catalog. This catalog shows the
   holdings of the four largest USGS libraries and will be made
   available--along with related databases--to the public via the
   Internet.


                                [return.gif]

   SEPERATOR

   URL http://geology.cr.usgs.gov/crg/infosrc.htm
