http://www.wssb.wa.gov/O&M.htm

                    link to Access Washington home page

   Washington State School for the Blind

   A Washington State Agency
   Nationally accredited through the Northwest Association of Schools and
   Colleges
   Member of the Council of Schools for the Blind (COSB).

Skip Navigation


   Home

   School Information

   Administration

   On Campus Programs

   Orientation & Mobility

   Resources

   School Board

   Residential

   School Foundation

   Technology

   Media Center

   The Lions Roar

   Student Information

   Activity Calendar

   2001-2002
   School Calendar

   Parent Representative

   In The Classroom

   Grades K-2^nd

   Middle School

   U.S. History

   Pacific Northwest History

   Journalism

   Art

   Music

   Science

   Math

   English

   Quest

   Fit for Life Program

   Statewide Services

   Outreach Services

   Braille Access Center

   Instructional Resource Center

   General Information

   Employment Opportunities

   Contact Information

   Staff pages
   (WSSB Staff Only)

                            Section 508 approved

Orientation and Mobility

   O&M classes are provided on an individual basis to students by
   credentialed Orientation and Mobility Specialists, to learn independent
   travel skills, based on each persons needs and abilities. This includes
   proper use of the long cane when appropriate for mobility, and concept
   development and spatial awareness for orientation purposes.

   Students are assessed and evaluated using the Texas School for the
   Blind TAPS curriculum and assessment, and other instruments as needed.
   Low vision devices are incorporated into a student’s program as
   appropriate.

   Students learn to travel around the WSSB campus for needed routes to
   classes and activities. Those who are cognitively able learn
   age-appropriate travel skills off campus to various locations in the
   greater Vancouver and Portland area. All students receive the
   opportunity to learn rote routes in the vicinity of the school to the
   best of their ability.

   Off campus lessons include basic and advanced residential travel
   skills, including crossing streets independently; business area travel
   skills, including bus travel; rural area travel as appropriate to a
   particular student; and major metropolitan travel in a downtown
   setting. O&M night evaluations and lessons are provided to partially
   sighted students when age appropriate.

   Safety and awareness of one’s surroundings is also emphasized. Students
   may earn Walking Papers, or permission to travel independently after
   school hours to local businesses and community activities. They do this
   by demonstrating competency as a skilled, independent traveler, who can
   problem solve and remain safe and oriented without instructor
   assistance. Students are encouraged to travel with friends, or in a
   small group, for off-campus activities. They may also earn night travel
   papers when they are old enough to go off-campus unsupervised after
   dark.

   Students with multiple disabilities receive instruction for concept
   development and independent campus travel, and off campus travel as
   appropriate to their needs. Some students are introduced to alternative
   mobility devices when needed to teach them safe, independent travel at
   school. When possible these students are transitioned to a long cane,
   or adapted long cane, as their ability permits.

   O&M staff are active in the AERBVI professional organization, and work
   with city and county officials in both an advisory capacity, and to
   enhance the safety of all pedestrians.

   Orientation and Mobility Specialist:
   Cheri DeLyria, MA
   cdelyria@wssb.org 696-6321 ext. 101

   Orientation and Mobility Specialist:
   Judy Koch, MA, COMS
   jkoch@wssb.org  696-6321 ext. 101
    3>

      © Copyright 2000
       Designed by: Michael P. Hooks
      Tuesday January 15, 2002
      Privacy Notice Information
