http://ccr.nci.nih.gov/initiatives/

   Link to National Cancer Institute Center for Cancer Research
   Link to Contact CCR Link to CCR Homepage Link to NCI home Link to NIH
   home
   _______________ Search

   Featured Initiatives


   Molecular Targets
   Cancer Prevention Models
   Breast Cancer Initiatives
   Microarray Group Technology
   Proteomics
   Imaging
   Molecular Pathology
   Genomic Analysis
   Office of Mice Advice
   Animal Models
   The NCI has defined new, extraordinary research opportunities as part
   of its mission to "translate scientific knowledge into more effective
   cancer interventions." The goal is to create an integrated,
   multidisciplinary research environment that brings together scientists
   from diverse fields to work on the "big picture" problems in cancer
   research. Collaboration, technology support and development, and access
   to resources are critical to achieving this goal. The CCR has responded
   to this challenge by establishing faculties and other groups-composed
   of basic and clinical researchers-that are focusing on:

   Molecular Targets
   One high priority is identifying and using molecular targets for the
   discovery and clinical testing of new anticancer agents based on the
   molecular mechanisms that underlie neoplastic transformations, cancer
   growth, and metastasis.

   Cancer Prevention Models
   The Prevention Models Focus Group is enhancing research studies that
   can provide insight into genes whose activity drives or prevents
   carcinogenesis at any stage.

   Breast Cancer
   The Breast Cancer Faculty is a community of investigators at NCI, NIH,
   and beyond, who focus on the prevention and cure of this disease.

   Microarray Technology
   NCI's Advanced Technology Center (ATC) and the Laboratory of Molecular
   Technology (SAIC Frederick) are developing new microarray technologies
   for human and mouse studies.

   Proteomics
   CCR is expanding its proteomics effort to study the protein composition
   of normal and tumor cells and then apply this research to patient
   diagnosis, toxicity monitoring, and therapeutics.

   Imaging
   A translational (bench-to-bedside) research program will closely link
   molecular imaging, cancer signatures, and molecular targets.

   Molecular Pathology
   Diagnostic and laboratory medicine capabilities are available to
   investigators studying the molecular events that occur during the
   development, growth, and metastasis of cancer in preclinical models.

   Genomic Analysis
   A bioinformatics network is being developed within CCR to enhance the
   utilization of genomics information from commercial and public
   databases as well as to support Center initiatives in microarray
   technology and proteomics.

   Office of Mice Advice
   Having problems related to research animal issues? Assistance is now
   available-This Office is here to help NCI research and administration
   staff with areas ranging from animal study proposal development, murine
   genetics and husbandry to understanding billing procedures.

   Animal Models
   Animals models of cancer and related disorders are the focus of this
   effort, which aims to enhance resources, technology, and training in
   this important area.

   Related Links:

   NCI Extraordinary Research Opportunities

   Link to NIH

       CCR Home | About CCR | Clinical Trials | Research | Employment
        Featured Initiatives | News | Events | Site Privacy Policy |
                                Accessibility

   ©2000-2001 Center for Cancer Research at the National Cancer Institute

   Link to FirstGov
