http://ringmaster.arc.nasa.gov/privacy.html

            return to PDS Rings Node NASA Website Privacy Statement

   This policy establishes how NASA will use information we gather about
   you from your visit to our website. The privacy of our customers is of
   utmost importance to NASA.

   If you visit a NASA site...
     * To read or download information:
       We may collect and store information for statistical purposes. For
       example, we may count the number of visitors to the different
       sections of our site to help us make them more useful to visitors.
       Similar information is gathered for anonymous ftp, remote account
       login, or for other comparable types of connections.
     * To send us an E-mail:
       By sending us an electronic mail message, you may be sending us
       personal information (e.g., name, address, E-mail address), as in
       an official Freedom of Information Act request. We may store the
       name and address of the requester in order to respond to the
       request or to otherwise resolve the subject matter of your E-mail.
     * To register:
       Some of our sites ask visitors who request specific information to
       fill out a registration form. For example, vendors looking for
       marketing opportunities by visiting our Electronic Grants or NASA
       Acquisition Internet Service sites may be asked to "register" to
       obtain copies of Requests for Proposals or other NASA
       opportunities. Other information which may be collected at these
       sites through questionnaires, feedback forms, or other means,
       enable us to determine a visitor's interests, with the goal of
       providing better service to our customers.
     * Cookies:
       NASA uses advanced technologies as part of its core mission to
       discover and inform. Cookie technology may be implemented at some
       NASA web sites. Cookies store small amounts of information,
       sometimes including information you have given us, and are only
       used to make your visit to those web sites more usable and
       friendly. At no time is information you have given us, whether
       stored in cookies or elsewhere, shared with third parties that have
       no right to that information. If you do not wish to have web
       cookies stored on your machine, you can turn them off. However,
       this may impact the functioning of some NASA sites. We do not store
       any privacy information in cookies at this site.

   We want to be very clear: regardless of the information being
   transmitted to NASA, we will protect all such information consistent
   with applicable law.

NASA Website Disclaimer Statement

   Thank you for visiting this NASA web site. NASA may provide links to
   web pages which are not part of the NASA web family, or nasa.gov
   domain. These sites are not under NASA control, and NASA is not
   responsible for the information or links you may find there. NASA is
   providing these links only as a convenience. The presence of these
   links on any NASA website is not intended to imply NASA endorsement of
   that site, but to provide a convenient link to relevant sites which are
   managed by other organizations, companies, or individuals.
