http://www.usfa.fema.gov/safety/winter01-02.htm

   USFA Seal Blank Image Fire Safety Banner Image

   Fire Safety
   Navigation Menu Link Safety & Education
   Navigation Menu Link Facts on Fire
   Navigation Menu Link Factsheets
   Navigation Menu Link Fire Risks Series
   Navigation Menu Link Smoke Alarms
   Navigation Menu Link Residential Sprinklers
   Navigation Menu Link Product Recalls
   Navigation Menu Link Kids' Page
   Navigation Menu Link Publications
   Navigation Menu Link Public Educators




                             Other USFA Resources
     on Winter Fire Safety

     Electrical Fire Safety for Manufactured Housing
     Space Heaters, Fireplaces and Wood Stoves for Manufactured Housing
     Check Your Hot Spots!
     Exposing an Invisible Killer: Carbon Monoxide
     Fire Safety Beyond the City Limits
     Fireplace and Home Fire Safety
     On the Safety Circuit
     Topical Fire Research Series: Winter Fires
     Topical Fire Research Series: Christmas/Christmas Tree Fires
     Topical Fire Research Series: Portable Heating Fires in Residential
     Structures
     Topical Fire Research Series: Heating Fires in Residential Structures
     A Season for Sharing in Fire Safety
     Winter Storm Fire Safety

WINTER FIRE SAFETY:
TIPS FOR THE HOME

   The high cost of home heating fuels and utilities have caused many
   Americans to search for alternate sources of home heating. The use of
   wood burning stoves is growing and space heaters are selling rapidly,
   or coming out of storage. Fireplaces are burning wood and man-made
   logs. All of these methods of heating may be acceptable. They are
   however, a major contributing factor in residential fires. Many of
   these fires can be prevented. The following fire safety tips can help
   you maintain a fire safe home this winter.

   KEROSENE HEATERS
     * Be sure your heater is in good working condition. Inspect exhaust
       parts for carbon build-up. Be sure the heater has an emergency shut
       off in case the heater is tipped over.
     * Never use fuel burning appliances without proper room venting.
       Burning fuel (kerosene, coal or propane, for example) produces
       deadly fumes.
     * Use ONLY the fuel recommended by the heater manufacturer. NEVER
       introduce a fuel into a unit not designed for that type fuel.
     * Keep kerosene, or other flammable liquids stored in approved metal
       containers, in well ventilated storage areas, outside of the house.
     * NEVER fill the heater while it is operating or hot. When refueling
       an oil or kerosene unit, avoid overfilling. Use caution with cold
       fuel for it may expand in the tank as it warms up.
     * Refueling should be done outside of the home (or outdoors).
     * Keep young children safely away from space heaters -- especially
       when they are wearing nightgowns or other loose clothing that can
       be easily ignited.
     * When using a fuel burning appliance in the bedroom, be sure there
       is proper ventilation to prevent a buildup of carbon monoxide.

   WOOD STOVES AND FIREPLACES

   Wood stoves and fireplaces are becoming a very common heat source in
   homes. Careful attention to safety can minimize their fire hazard. To
   use them safely:
     * Be sure the stove or fireplace is installed properly. Wood stoves
       should have adequate clearance (36) from combustible surfaces, and
       proper floor support and protection.
     * Wood stoves should be of good quality, solid construction and
       design, and should be UL listed.
     * Have the chimney inspected annually and cleaned if necessary,
       especially if it has not been used for some time.
     * Do not use flammable liquids to start or accelerate any fire.
     * Keep a glass or metal screen in front of the fireplace opening, to
       prevent embers or sparks from jumping out, unwanted material from
       going in, and help prevent the possibility of bums to occupants.
     * The stove should be burned hot twice a day for 15-30 minutes to
       reduce the amount of creosote buildup.
     * Dont use excessive amounts of paper to build roaring fires in
       fireplaces. It is possible to ignite creosote in the chimney by
       overbuilding the fire.
     * Never burn charcoal indoors. Burning charcoal can give off lethal
       amounts of carbon monoxide.
     * Keep flammable materials away from your mantel. A spark from the
       fireplace could easily ignite these materials.
     * Before you go to sleep, be sure your fireplace fire is out. NEVER
       close your damper with hot ashes in the fireplace. A closed damper
       will help the fire to heat up again and will force toxic carbon
       monoxide into the house.
     * If synthetic logs are used, follow the directions on the package.
       Never break a synthetic log apart to quicken the fire or use more
       than one log at a time. They often burn unevenly, releasing higher
       levels of carbon monoxide.

   FURNACE HEATING

   Its important that you have your furnace inspected to insure that it is
   in good working condition.
     * Be sure all furnace controls and emergency shutoffs are in proper
       working condition.
     * Leave furnace repairs to qualified specialists. Do not attempt
       repairs yourself unless you are qualified.
     * Inspect the walls and ceiling near the furnace and along the
       chimney line. If the wall is hot or discolored, additional pipe
       insulation or clearance may be required.
     * Check the flue pipes and pipe seams. Are they well supported? Free
       of holes, and cracks? Soot along or around seams may be an
       indicator of a leak.
     * Is the chimney solid? No cracks or loose bricks? All unused flue
       openings should be sealed with solid masonry.
     * Keep trash and other combustibles away from the heating system.

   OTHER FIRE SAFETY TIPS
     * Never discard hot ashes inside or near the home. Place them in a
       metal container outside and well away from the house.
     * Never use a range or an oven as a supplementary heating devise. Not
       only is it a safety hazard, it can be a source of potentially toxic
       fumes.
     * If you use an electric heater, be sure not to overload the circuit.
       Only use extension cords which have the necessary rating to carry
       the amp load.
     * Avoid using electric space heaters in bathrooms, or other areas
       where they may come in contact with water.
     * Frozen water pipes? Never try to thaw them with a blow torch or
       other open flame, (otherwise the pipe could conduct the heat and
       ignite the wall structure inside the wall space). Use hot water or
       a UL labeled device such as a hand held dryer for thawing.
     * If windows are used as emergency exits in your home, practice using
       them in the event fire should strike. Be sure that all windows open
       easily. Home escape ladders are recommended.
     * If there is a fire hydrant near your home you can assist the fire
       department by keeping the hydrant clear of snow so in the event it
       is needed, it can be located.

   FINALLY . . .
     * Be sure every level of your home has a working smoke alarm, and be
       sure to check and clean it on a monthly basis.
     * Contact your local fire department for advice if your have a
       question on home fire safety.

         [ search | help | links | feedback | e-mail lists | home ]


    Last Updated: January 2, 2002

   FOOTER: UNITED STATES FIRE ADMINISTRATION
