http://www.whrc.wa.gov/glossary/index.htm


                          Glossary of Racing Terms


             A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z

A

   Acey Deucy - Used to describe a jockey riding with his or her left
   stirrup longer than the right stirrup.
   Across the Board - Making a bet on a horse for first, second, and
   third.
   Added Money -  The portion of a purse in a stakes race that is added by
   the Racing Association.
   Allowance Race - A race other than claiming which has certain
   conditions to determine weights.
   Allowance Weight -  Weight considerations specified in the conditions
   of a race.
   Also Eligible -  Horses that were entered but failed to get into the
   actual race because of too many entries. Horses on the also eligible
   list will get into the actual race only if there are scratches.
   Also Ran - A horse that finishes out of the money.
   American Stud Book -  Published by The Jockey Club on a yearly basis,
   listing all Thoroughbreds registered in the United States and Canada.
   Appeal - A written protest filed with the commission regarding a ruling
   made by the stewards.
   Apprentice Allowance - A weight concession given to a new and
   apprentice jockey: usually 10 pounds until the 5th winner, 7 pounds
   until the 35th winner and 5 pounds for one calendar year from the 5th
   winner.
   Apprentice Jockey - A rider who has not ridden a certain number of
   winners within a specific period of time.
   Approximate Odds -  The betting odds for each horse posted on the tote
   board from when betting starts to post time.
   ARCI - Association of Racing Commissioners International - A National
   organization that establishes guidelines and standards for all member
   racing commissions.
   Arrears - shall mean all moneys due for entrance forfeits, fees
   (including jockey's, etc. fees), forfeitures, subscriptions, stake,
   purchase money in claiming races, and also any default in money
   incident to the rules.
   Association - shall mean any person or persons, associations, or
   corporations licensed by the commission to conduct racing for any
   stake, purse or reward.
   Authorized agent - shall mean a person appointed by a written
   instrument signed and acknowledged before a notary public by the owner
   and filed in accordance with the rules.

B

   Back Stretch - The portion of the racing surface farthest from the
   stands and between the turns. Also the stable area of a race track.
   Bandages - Cloth or plastic wrappings used to protect and support the
   legs of a horse.
   Bay The color of a horse where the entire coat varies from tan to
   bright auburn and where the mane, tail and lower legs are black.
   Bear In/Out -  A term used to describe a horse drifting in  or out
   rather than running a straight course.

   Bill Daly -  An expression used to describe a horse running in front of
   its field.
   Bit -  The metal mouth piece of a bridle used to guide a horse in a
   race.
   Black Type - The designation given for a stakes winner or stakes placed
   horse.
   Bleeder - A horse that exhibits evidence of exercise induced pulmonary
   hemorrhage.
   Blind Switch - Being caught in a pocket or in a position behind horses
   where a free course cannot be pursued.
   Blinkers - A hood with attached eye pieces used to limit the peripheral
   vision of a horse.
   Blood Lines -The term used to describe the pedigree or lineage of a
   horse.
   Blow Out - A short, fast work-out.
   Bobble - The term used when a horse stumbles in a race.
   Bolt - A horse veering to the outside rail, out of control of its
   rider.
   Breakage - The money left over after the pari-mutuel payoffs have been
   figured to the nearest dime.
   Breakdown - The term used to describe a horse going lame.
   Breast Plate - A leather strap that goes around a horse's chest and is
   attached to the girth, used to prevent a saddle from slipping backward.
   Breeder - of a horse shall mean the owner of its dam at the time of
   foaling.
   Breeding place - shall mean the place of horse's birth.
   Breeze - An easy workout.
   Breezing - Horse working at a moderate rate; not asked for top speed.
   Brown - The color of a horse where the entire coat varies from shades
   of brown with areas of tan on the shoulders, head and flanks. The mane,
   tail and legs are black.
   Brush - Slight contact between horses.
   Bug-or "Bug Boy" - An apprentice jockey so called because of the "bug"
   or asterisk used on the program to indicate that the  weight carried
   has an apprentice weight allowance.
   Bullet Work - The best time for the distance on the workout tab for any
   given day.
   Bull Ring - A race track less than one mile around.
   Bush - Class "C" race meetings within the state of Washington.

   Bute(or Butazolidin) - Trade name for phenylbutazone, a commonly used
   analgesic for horses.

C

   Calendar day - shall mean twenty-four hours ending at midnight.
   Call - An agreement between a jockey and a trainer regarding a
   particular race on a specific day.
   Canter - A slow gallop.
   Card - A racing program.
   Chalk - The betting favorite in a race.
   Chalk Player - A bettor who wagers on favorites.
   Chart - The complete report on the running of a race.
   Check - When a rider is forced to momentarily stop riding or pull back
   on his/her mount.
   Chute - An extension of the track which permits races to be run at
   various distances.

   Claim Box- A box in which a claiming form must be deposited at a
   specific time prior to the race. In Washington state claims must be
   deposited at least 15 minutes prior to post time.
   Claimed/Claiming  - Buying a horse out of a claiming race for the
   entered price.

   Claiming Certificate - Issued by the stewards to a person who has
   completed the procedures required of a prospective owner and allows
   that person to claim.
   Claiming Race - A race in which the owners set the value of their
   horses. Any horse entered in a claiming race may be claimed by an
   eligible person by following specific procedures. Any horse entered
   therein may be claimed in conformity with the rules.
   Claim Tag - A tag attached to the horse's bridle when he/she returns to
   be unsaddled from a race. It is notification that the horse has been
   claimed.
   Clerk of Scales - The official that supervises the jockeys and has
   responsibility for ensuring that each horse carries the assigned
   weight.
   Climb - Describes a horse's action between strides: lifting it's legs
   in a high arc when they are off the ground.
   Clocker - The official responsible for timing the workouts and races.

   Closer - A horse that runs best in the latter part of the race, coming
   off the pace.
   Clubhouse Turn - Generally, the turn of a racing oval that is closest
   to the clubhouse facility; usually the first turn after the finish
   wire.
   Colors - The jacket and cap worn by jockeys and particular to that
   horse's owner.
   Colt - An unaltered male horse less than five years old.
   Commission - The Washington Horse Racing Commission, appointed by the
   Governor to regulate racing.
   Commission Veterinarian - Serves as professional advisor and consultant
   to the racing commission on Veterinary matters including all regulatory
   aspects of the application and practice of veterinary medicine at the
   track. See official veterinarian.
   Condition Book - A listing of races, as published by the racing
   secretary, indicating the dates, distances and conditions.
   Coupled - Two or more horses joined as a single betting interest.

   Cribber - A horse who clings to objects with his teeth and sucks air
   into his stomach.
   Cuppy track - A type of track condition with a loose cushion.

   Cushion - Surface of the race track or a layer of the track.

D

   Daily Double - Type of wager calling for the selection of winners of
   two consecutive races, usually the first and second.
   Dam - The female parent of a horse.
   Dark Bay - A thoroughbred color similar to brown.
   Dash - A sprint race less than one mile.
   Dead Heat - The finish of a race where two or more horses tie for a
   position.
   Declaration - shall mean the act of withdrawing an entered horse from a
   race before the closing of overnight entries.
   Declare - To withdraw a horse from a race prior to closing of entries.
   Derby - A type of race specifically for three-year-old horses.
   Disqualify - The placing of a horse, by the stewards, in a lower
   position from where it originally finished.
   Distaff - The female side of a horse's pedigree, referring to female.

   Distanced - Well beaten, finishing a great distance behind the winner.
   Dog - A rubber cone or wooden barrier placed some distance out from the
   inner rail of a track during training hours, to keep horses away from
   the rail.
   Draw - The act of selecting horses by random from entries received by
   the racing secretary.
   Driving - In a race, running hard and under pressure from the rider. In
   a workout, a horse working all-out under strong urging by rider.
   Drop - Usually refers to a horse that is entered for a lower claiming
   price than it previously ran.
   Dwelt - Used to describe a horse that breaks slowly from the starting
   gate.

E

   Eased - Refers to a horse that was permitted to drop out of the race or
   failed to give it's best effort.
   Eighth Pole - A pole signifying a distance one eighth of a mile from
   the finish wire. In Washington state they are painted green and white.

   Eligible - Qualified to start in a race according to conditions.
   Entry - shall mean according to the requirement of the text (a) a horse
   made eligible to run in a race, (b) two or more which are entered or
   run in a race owned by the same owner or trained by the same trainer.
   Entry Clerk - An employee of the racing secretary who accepts entries
   for a race.
   Equibase - A company established to maintain an industry owned, central
   database of racing records. Equibase past performance information is
   used in track programs across North America.
   Equipment, - as applied to a horse, shall mean whips, blinkers, tongue
   straps, muzzle, nosebands, bits, shadow rolls, martingales, breast
   plates, bandages, boots and plates.
   Exacta - A wager in which the first two finishers in a race, in the
   exact order of finish, must be picked.
   Exercise Rider - A rider who is licensed to exercise a horse during its
   morning training session.

F

   Farrier - A blacksmith or horseshoer.

   Far Turn - The turn off the backstretch turning for the homestretch.
   Favorite - The horse with the most money bet to win in a race, or the
   horse with the most backing by the handicappers.
   Field - Refers to all the horses running in a race or to a grouping of
   horses coupled for pari-mutuel purposes.
   First-Time Starter - A horse which has never run in a race.
   Filly - A female horse less than five years old.
   Float -  A piece of equipment attached to a tractor used to"squeeze"
   water from a wet race track.
   Foal - A horse of either sex in its first year of life.
   Foal Certificate - See registration certificate.
   Forfeit - shall mean money due because of an error, fault, neglect of
   duty, breach of contract, or a penalty.
   Form - A horse's past racing performance.
   Foul - Significant interference that occurs in a race.
   Free handicap - shall mean a handicap in which no liability for
   entrance money is incurred.
   Furlong - A furlong is 220 yards or one eighth of a mile. There are
   eight furlongs in a mile.
   Futurity - A race for two year olds where nominations are made well in
   advance of the race date and sustaining payments are usually required.

G

   Gait - The type of action a horse has while running.
   Gallop - A gait used when a horse runs, slower in speed than a breeze.
   Gap - An opening through the outside rail where horses enter and leave
   the race track.
   Gelding - A male horse that has been castrated (both testicles
   surgically removed).
   Girth - A strap or belt that holds the saddle in place. Typically,
   racing saddles are fastened with "over" and "under" girths.
   Going Away - A term used to describe a winning horse extending its lead
   as it approaches the finish.
   Graded Stakes - A classification of stakes races given, by a committee,
   according to their national importance.
   Gray - A thoroughbred color where the majority of the coat is a mix of
   black and white hair.
   Groom - A stable employee whose job is to care for horses.
   Grounds - shall mean all real property owned or leased by an
   association used in the conduct of a race meet.

H

   Hand - A unit of measurement equal to four inches used to measure the
   height of a horse.
   Handicap - shall mean a race in which the weights to be carried by the
   entered horses are adjusted by a handicapper or board of handicappers
   for the purpose of equalizing their respective chances of winning.
   Hand Ride - Urging a horse with hands only, not using the whip.
   Handily - In a race, a horse who wins easily. In a workout, a horse
   working with increased effort, but not under pressure; A pace slightly
   slower than driving but faster than a breeze.
   Head Number - A number placed on the bridle of the horse which
   corresponds to its betting interest/program number.
   Heavy Track - A track condition between muddy and slow.
   Highweight handicap - shall mean a handicap in which the weight
   assigned to the top horse in that handicap is not less than 140 pounds.
   Home Bred - A horse that was bred by its current owner.
   Home Stretch - The part of the race track from the final turn to the
   finish.
   Hold - An action taken by a rider, trainer or owner of a horse
   preventing a race from being declared official.
   Horse - An equine (including and designated as a filly, mare, colt,
   horse, gelding or ridgling) registered for racing; specifically, an
   entire male 5 years of age and older.

I

   Ineligible- A horse not qualified under the rules or conditions of a
   race to participate.
   Identifier - The official who is responsible for insuring that the
   horses which compete in a race are the same as those which have been
   entered.
   Inquiry - An investigation, initiated by the stewards, into the running
   of a race.
   In the Money - When a horse finishes in first, second or third
   positions.
   Invitational Race - A race consisting of horses invited to participate
   by the racing association.
   Irons - Another name for a jockey's stirrups.

J

   Jam - An incident caused by a group of horses crowding each other.
   Jockey - shall mean a race rider, whether a licensed jockey, apprentice
   or amateur.
   Jockey Agent - A person employed by a jockey to engage mounts.
   Jog - The gait between a walk and a canter where each leg is used
   individually. A slow gait for a thoroughbred.
   Journeyman - A full fledged jockey, one who has lost all apprentice
   allowances.
   Juvenile - A two year old thoroughbred.

L

   Lasix - A permitted diuretic used to reduce the occurrence of exercise
   induced pulmonary hemorrhage or "bleeding".
   Lead Pad - A pad containing thin lead weights used to help make up the
   difference between a jockey's weight and the assigned weight for a
   horse in a race. Positioned under the saddle and held in place by the
   girths.
   Lead Pony - The pony used to take a horse to the post or to exercise a
   horse in the morning.
   Lease - An agreement which transfers control of a horse from the legal
   owner to another person for racing or breeding purposes.
   Length - A term used to describe margins in a race derived from the
   length of a horse (about eight feet).
   License - A permit issued by the Commission to all participants in
   racing.
   Longshot - A horse with little chance of winning a race.
   Lug In/out - Used to describe a horse that is drifting in or out during
   a race.

M

   Maiden - In racing, a horse which at the time of starting has never won
   a race on the flat in any country, at a track which is covered by a
   recognized racing publication showing the complete results of the race.
   A maiden which has been disqualified after finishing first is still to
   be considered a maiden. In breeding, a mare that has not had a foal.
   Mare - A female horse five years of age or older.
   Match Race - A private sweepstakes between two horses which are the
   property of two different owners. If prior to the running of the race
   either of the horses entered in the match dies, or if either owner dies
   the match is void. It remains a match even if money or any other award
   is added to the stakes.
   Meeting (Meet) - The entire consecutive period for which license to
   race has been granted to any one association by the commission.
   Minus Pool - Occurs when the amount of money, in a pari-mutuel pool
   (after the take-out), is insufficient to pay off the winning tickets at
   the minimum rate required by law. The racing association must make up
   the difference.
   Month - shall mean a calendar month.
   Morning Glory - A horse who performs well in morning workouts but fails
   to reproduce that form in races.
   Morning Line - The probable odds a horse will pay, if it wins, as
   determined by an odds maker prior to the commencement of wagering.
   Mud Caulks - Small cleats inserted on the back ends of a horse's shoe
   allowing for a better grip on an off track.
   Mudder - A horse which races well in the mud.
   Mutuel Clerk - An employee of the racing association who accepts and
   cashes wagers.
   Mutuel Pool - The amount of money wagered on a horse in a race or for
   an entire racing day.

N

   Near Side - The left side of a horse.
   Nominate  -To make a horse eligible for a stakes race or other race
   that will be run some time in the future.
   Nominator - shall mean a person in whose name a horse is entered for a
   race.

O

   Oaks -  A race specifically for three-year-old fillies.
   Objection -  A verbal protest lodged with the stewards by the owner,
   trainer or jockey relative to an occurrence in a race in which they (or
   their horse) were involved.
   Odds Board - The structure in the infield that displays the approximate
   odds post times, the order of finish, and the pari mutuel payoffs.
   Typically, other information is also displayed.
   Odds On - A horse that will pay less than even money.
   Off Track - A track condition describing anything other than fast.
   Official  - A declaration made by the stewards indicating that pari-
   mutuel payoffs may begin.
   Official Order - The order of finish for the contestants in a race as
   determined by the stewards.
   Official Starter - The person responsible for ensuring that all horses
   have an equal opportunity for a fair start.
   Official Veterinarian - A veterinarian employed by the commission
   responsible for the health and welfare of horses racing at a race
   meeting.
   Off Side - The right side of a horse.
   Off Track Betting - Wagers that are accepted for the simulcast of
   Washington's live racing programs only. Each county is allowed one
   satellite wagering site.
   Open Race - A race where the conditions do not prohibit entry of horses
   based on number of races won, money won, etc., but may have an age
   restriction.
   Optional claiming race - shall mean a race restricted to horses entered
   to be claimed for a stated claiming price and to those which have
   started previously for that claiming price or less. In the case of
   horses entered to be claimed in such a race, the race will be
   considered, for the purposes of these rules, a claiming race.
   Outrider - The official responsible for the post parade and for the
   timely arrival of the field of horses at the starting gate.
   Overlay - A term used for a horse that has higher odds than appears
   reasonable.
   Overnight - The listing of entries as compiled by the racing secretary
   published the same day as entries are taken.
   Overnight Handicap - A handicap without entry or starting fees where
   nominations close prior to entries being taken.
   Overnight race - shall mean a race for which entries close seventy-two
   hours, or less, before the time set for the first race of the day on
   which such race is to be run.
   Overweight - The difference between the assigned weight and the weight
   a rider is able to make. Washington rules allow for no more that seven
   pounds of overweight.
   Owner - includes sole owner, part owner or lessee of a horse. An
   interest only in the winnings of a horse does not constitute part
   ownership.
   Owner's handicap - shall mean a race wherein the owner fixes, at the
   time of entry, the weight his horse is to carry.

P

   Pace - The rate of speed established by the lead horse in a race.
   Paddock - The area where horses are saddled.
   Paddock Judge - The official who oversees the saddling of horses and is
   also responsible for ensuring that horses race with the necessary
   equipment.
   Paddock List -  A list of horses prevented from entering until each
   horse has been schooled to the paddock judge's satisfaction.
   Pari- mutuel - The system for betting at a race track that returns to
   the winners the money bet by the unsuccessful bettors. Taken from the
   French meaning "bet amongst ourselves".
   Parlay - A multi-race bet in which all winnings are subsequently
   wagered on each succeeding race.
   Past Performances - The record of a horse's previous races.
   Patrol Judge - The official who watches the races from a tower located
   adjacent to the track and is primarily responsible for reporting
   infractions from a specific area of the race course.
   Photo Finish - A close finish (less than 1/2 length in Washington)
   where a photograph is used to help determine the order of finish.
   Pick (number) -  A form of multi-race wagering where the winners of all
   the included races must be selected. Pick Three (Daily Triple) and Pick
   Six are the most common.
   Place - A bet on a horse to finish first or second. In racing, it shall
   mean first, second or third and in that order is called: win, place and
   show.
   Plater - A blacksmith or a claiming horse.

   Post Parade - Horses going from paddock to starting gate past the
   grandstands.
   Post position - shall mean the position assigned to the horse at the
   starting line of the race. The position is drawn by lot.
   Post race - shall mean a race in which the subscribers announce at
   declaration time the horse, or horses, each intends to start, without
   limitations of choice other than prescribed by the rules and conditions
   of the race.
   Post Time - The time set for the arrival at the starting point of the
   horses in a race and must be shown a reasonable time prior to the race
   on a clock device, provided for that purpose, prominently displayed and
   clearly readable from the grandstand. The advertised time for the
   starting of a race.
   Pre-Race Examination - A physical exam given by an official
   veterinarian on the day a horse is to run.
   Private sweepstakes - shall mean a race to which no money or other
   prize is added, and which, previous to closing, has not been
   advertised, either by publication, or by circular or entry blank, or in
   any other way.
   Produce race - shall mean a race to be run for by the produce of horses
   named or described at the time of entry.
   Protest - A written objection, made to the stewards, alleging offenses
   which could make a horse ineligible to participate in a race.
   Purse - The money awarded to owners of horses competing in a race.
   Purse race - shall mean a race for money or any other prize to which
   the owners of the horses engaged do not contribute.

Q

   Quarter Pole - A pole signifying a distance one quarter of a mile from
   the finish wire. In Washington state they are painted red and white.
   Quick Official  - A method that provides for the stewards to declare a
   race official prior to the return of the jockeys and horses to the
   unsaddling area. Racing associations desiring to use the "quick
   official" must petition the commission for approval.
   Quinella - A wager in which the first two finishers must be picked in
   either order.

R

   Race - shall mean a contest between horses for purse, stakes, or reward
   on any licensed course and in the presence of judge or judges. A race
   which overfills may be contested in two or more divisions.
   Race day - shall mean any period of twenty-four hours beginning at
   midnight and included in the period of a race meeting. In the matter of
   penalties, it means a calendar day.
   Racing Commission - The Washington Horse Racing Commission.
   Racing Secretary - The official who is responsible for allocating
   stalls, writing races, receiving entries and otherwise putting on the
   racing program.
   Railbird - A racing fan who watches the morning workouts.
   Receiving Barn - A special barn where the horses gather prior to
   proceeding to the paddock.
   Recognized meeting - shall mean any meeting wherever held under the
   sanction of a turf authority having reciprocal relations with the
   commission and other turf authorities (approved by said commission) for
   the mutual enforcement of rulings imposed on persons guilty of
   fraudulent turf practices of any kind.
   Refund - The money returned to the bettors after a late scratch.
   Refuse - A term used to describe a horse who fails to break from the
   gate at the start.
   Registration Certificate - A document issued to all thoroughbred horses
   by The Jockey Club, containing pertinent information about the horse's
   pedigree, physical description and registration number. Quarter horse
   registration certificates are issued by the American Quarter Horse
   Association.
   Renovation - To rake and loosen the upper surface of a track making it
   suitable for racing or training.
   Ridgling (Cryptorchid) - A male horse which has not been castrated and
   which one or both testicles are undescended.
   Roan - A color of a thoroughbred where the coat is a mixture of red and
   white hair with the mane and tail either red or black.
   Rules - The rules of racing.

S

   Savage - The term used to describe a horse trying to bite another horse
   or jockey in a race.
   Scratch - The act of withdrawing an entered horse from the race after
   the closing of overnight entries.
   Scratch Time - The time set by the association for the closing of
   applications for permission to withdraw from races of that day.
   Security Inspector - Commission employee that investigates allegations
   of wrongdoings and violations of the "Rules of Racing". Presentation of
   cases before the stewards and other duties as set forth by the
   Commission or the stewards.
   Sex Allowance - A weight allowance given to female horses when
   competing against males.
   Shadow Roll - A thick nose band designed to prevent a horse from
   looking down and seeing shadows.
   Shoe Board - A device used to give bettors information on the type of
   shoes that each horse is wearing.
   Show - A bet on a horse to finish first, second or third.
   Simulcast - Refers to the transmission of a race, for betting purposes,
   from one jurisdiction to another.
   Sire - The male parent of a horse.
   Sixteenth Pole - Black and white poles positioned around the race track
   indicating one sixteenth mile increments.
   Slop (Sloppy) - A very wet racing surface.
   Speed Rating - A figure assignment designed to list a horse's ability
   to compete at a certain distance.
   Sprint - A race under one mile in length.
   Stable Name - An assumed name registered to an owner.
   Stake race - shall mean a race for which nominations close more than
   seventy-two hours in advance of its running and for which subscribers
   contributed money toward its purse, or a race for which horses are
   invited by an association to run for a guaranteed purse of thirty
   thousand dollars or more without payment of stakes.
   Stallion - A non-gelded horse used in breeding.
   Starter - A horse is a starter for a race when the stall doors of the
   starting gate open in front of it at the time the starter dispatches
   the horses.
   Starter's List - A list of horses prevented from entering in races
   until they have been schooled to the starter's satisfaction.
   Stewards - The officials who are responsible for the conduct of a race
   meeting. In Washington all three stewards are employed by the
   commission. The stewards are also considered their duly appointed
   deputies.
   Steward's List - A list of horses prevented from entering because of
   poor performance, ownership problems, etc.
   Steadied - A horse being taken in hand by it's rider.

   Stick - A jockey's whip.
   Stickers - Cleats on a horse's shoes to provide better traction.
   Stretch - The portion of the race track in front of the stands is
   called the front or home stretch. The portion of the track farthest
   from the stands is called the back stretch.
   Stretch Turn  - The turn leading into the home stretch.
   Stride - The distance covered by a running horse in one complete jump.
   Subscription - shall mean the act of nominating to a stake race.
   Superfecta - A wager in which the first four finishers in a race, in
   the exact order, must be picked.
   Sweepstakes - shall mean a race for which nominations close more than
   seventy-two hours in advance of its running and for which subscribers
   contributed money toward its purse, or a race for which horses are
   invited by an association to run for a guaranteed purse of thirty
   thousand dollars or more without payment of stakes.

T

   Tack -  A jockeys equipment including, saddle, girths etc. Also stable
   equipment.
   Take Down - To place a horse in a lower position from where it had
   actually finished.

   Taken Up - A horse pulled up sharply by his rider because of being in
   close quarters.
   Tattoo - A group of numbers indelibly placed on the inside upper lip of
   a thoroughbred corresponding to the animal's registration number and
   used for identification.
   Test Barn - The facility in which the official veterinarian collects
   urine and blood samples from horses for testing for evidence of foreign
   substances or prohibited drugs in the horse's system as provided by the
   commissions rules.
   The Jockey Club - Organization that keeps the American Stud Book and
   registers all thoroughbred horses.
   Therapeutic Medication - Includes legitimate medications which are used
   by Veterinarians in the normal course of their practice but which are
   not allowed to be present in post race blood or urine samples.
   Tongue Strap - A piece of gauze used to tie down a horse's tongue to
   keep it under the bit.
   Totalisator - The system used for recording, calculating and
   disseminating information on ticket sales, odds, and payoff prices.
   Tote Board - See odds board.
   Track Superintendent  - The person responsible for maintaining the
   track surface.
   Trifecta - A wager in which the first three finishers in a race, in the
   exact order must be picked.
   Trifecta Box  - A wager in which all possible combinations using a
   given number of horses are bet upon.

U

   Untried horse - shall mean a horse whose produce are maidens.

V

   Valet - Refers to the jockey's room employee who is responsible for
   assisting the trainer in saddling horses and who cares for a jockey's
   tack.
   Vet's List - Horses which have been determined by the commission
   veterinarian to be unfit for racing. Horses may be placed on the vets
   list for a variety of reasons including soreness, lameness, sickness or
   injury and may only be removed from the list by the Commission
   Veterinarian.

W

   Wager - To make a bet on a race.
   Walk over - shall mean a situation in which two horses in entirely
   different interest do not run in a race.
   Washington Bred - A thoroughbred horse foaled in the State of
   Washington.
   Weigh In - The procedure whereby a jockey's weight is checked following
   the running of a race.
   Weigh Out - The procedure where a jockey's weight is checked prior to
   the race.
   Weight for age - shall mean standard weight according to the rules. A
   weight for age race is one in which all horses carry weight according
   to the scale without penalties or allowances.
   Wheel - A type of wager in which a key horse or horses are used
   combination with other horses in a race.

   Whip - Equipment carried by a jockey to maximize a horses performance.
   Workout - A speed trial in preparation for a race.

Y

   Year - shall mean a calendar year.

   P

             Questions? Comments? Please email the webmaster at
                           whrc@whrc.state.wa.us.
          ________________________________________________________

   Home  |  About the WHRC  |  Licensing  |  Racing Schedules  |  Special
                         Events  |  Off-Track Sites
      Rules of Racing  |  Policies  |  "Behind the Scenes"  |  Links  |
                           Glossary  |  Disclaimer
          ________________________________________________________
