http://www.fppc.ca.gov/pdf/seicolorpdf.pdf

   Your Duty To File A Basic Overview of State Economic Disclosure Law And
   Reporting Requirements For Public Officials Fair Political Practices
   Commission P.O. Box 807 428 J Street, Suite 620 Sacramento, CA 95812
   Toll-free advice line: 1 (866) ASK-FPPC Web site: www.fppc.ca.gov Chart
   1 A A A Basic Overview of State Basic Overview of State Basic Overview
   of State Economic Disclosure Law Economic Disclosure Law Economic
   Disclosure Law And Reporting Requirements And Reporting Requirements
   And Reporting Requirements Political Reform Act of 1974 Introduction
   The Political Reform Act of 1974 (Gov. Disclosure Code sections
   81000-91014) requires and reporting many state and local public
   officials and requirements employees to disclose certain personal fi-
   nancial holdings. The Act, which frequently has been amended, began as
   a ballot initia- tive approved by over 70 percent of Califor- nia
   voters in the wake of the Watergate po- "Section 87200" Agency litical
   scandals. conflict-of- interest codes One of the Act's stated purposes
   de- clares: Assets and income of public offi- Elected officials
   "Designated" cials which may be materially af- and others who officials
   fected by their official actions must disclose and employees should be
   disclosed and in appro- under "section who must file priate
   circumstances the officials 87200" full or limited should be
   disqualified from acting in disclosure order that conflicts of interest
   may be avoided. (Cal. Gov't. Code sec- tion 81002(c).) government. Many
   tens of thousands of public workers, ranging from the governor In its
   findings and declarations, the Act to local department heads to board
   and adds: commission members, are required to file public, personal
   financial disclosure re- Public officials, whether elected or ports
   known as "statements of economic appointed, should perform their
   interests." duties in an impartial manner, free from bias caused by
   their own fi- The Act establishes a complex, decen- nancial interests
   or the financial tralized system of managing this disclo- interests of
   persons who have sure in which each state and local govern- supported
   them. (Cal. Gov't. Code ment agency is required to adopt and im-
   section 81001(b).) plement a separate conflict-of-interest code. The
   administration of this decentral- The Act and its practical implementa-
   ized system is divided between the Fair tion have a broad reach across
   California Political Practices Commission and re- Fair Political
   Practices Commission 1 Your Duty To File (10/2001) FPPC sponsible
   officials at more than 7,000 While sometimes popularly called state and
   local agencies. "conflict-of-interest statements," the forms list only
   personal financial interests and Employees and officeholders at virtu-
   don't in themselves disclose any conflicts of ally all state and local
   agencies, as well as interests. Any conflict of interest under the
   candidates for public office, use the Fair Political Reform Act can
   only come about if Political Practices Commission's form 700 a public
   official makes or participates in to file their statements of economic
   inter- making a government decision that has a ests. The statements are
   sometimes infor- reasonably foreseeable material financial mally
   referred to as "SEIs," "700s" or effect on the official's personal
   financial in- "conflict-of-interest statements." The form terests.
   Also, the law does not require all is available from your agency or in
   an in- relevant personal financial interests (such teractive version on
   the FPPC web site. as ownership of a personal residence in Form 700
   amendment schedules, also most cases) to be disclosed on the state-
   available from your agency and the web ment of economic interests.
   site, are used to file amendments to a pre- viously filed statement.
   The form 700 includes extensive in- structions on how to fill it out.
   Your agency Most of these forms are not filed di- or the FPPC can
   provide individual help if rectly with the FPPC. Rather, they are you
   have further questions about the form, filed with the agency's filing
   officer or filing or where and when to file it. official, or, in the
   case of candidates, with election offices or local clerk offices. In
   The FPPC and agencies have the au- some cases, the agency will forward
   the thority to levy penalties when a statement original form to the
   FPPC while retaining a of economic interests is not filed on time.
   copy. The FPPC also has the authority to levy ad- ministrative fines of
   up to $5,000 per viola- Filers must sign the form 700 under pen- tion
   of the Political Reform Act, or to seek alty of perjury (see section
   81004 of the civil penalties in the courts. The FPPC Act). Once filed,
   the form is a public docu- does not have the power to bring criminal
   ment and must be made available to the charges but may refer cases to
   another law public on request (section 81008). Public enforcement
   authority such as a district at- officials are generally not required
   to list torney. their home addresses or home telephone numbers on the
   form. The forms alert public officials about their own economic
   interests and potential areas of conflict in relation to their duties,
   and provide information to members of the public who may monitor
   official actions for any conflicts. Fair Political Practices Commission
   2 Your Duty To File (10/2001) Chart 2 - Officials required to file
   disclosure statements under Who must disclose? section 87200 of the
   Cal. Gov't. Code State Offices: The Act establishes two categories of
   Governor public officials and employees who must Lieutenant governor
   disclose their personal financial interests. Attorney general See Chart
   1 on Page 1 for a basic diagram Controller of how the law works.
   Insurance commissioner Secretary of state I. Officials required to
   disclose Treasurer under section 87200 of the Members of the state
   legislature Government Code Superintendent of public instruction State
   Board of Equalization members Section 87200 contains a specific list of
   Public utilities commissioners officials, including high-ranking
   elected of- State energy resources conservation ficeholders, who are
   subject to the most ex- and development commissioners tensive
   disclosure requirements under the State coastal commissioners Act.
   These officials are listed in Chart 2, Elected CalPERS board members
   found in the right column of this page. Fair Political Practices
   Commission members Officials specified in section 87200, and State
   public officials who manage candidates for the elective offices
   specified public investments in section 87200, must file form 700
   periodi- cally to disclose certain investments, inter- Judicial
   Offices: ests in real property, sources of income, Supreme, appellate
   and superior gifts, loans and business positions. These court judges
   officials are sometimes informally referred Court commissioners to as
   "87200 filers." Retired and pro-tem judges, part-time court
   commissioners II. Officials and employees required County and city
   offices: to disclose Members of boards of supervisors under section
   87300 Mayors and members of city councils Chief administrative officers
   Every state and local government District attorneys agency is required
   to adopt a "conflict-of- County counsels interest code" under the Act
   (see Cal. City attorneys Gov't. Code section 87300). The Act lists City
   managers the provisions required for such codes Planning commissioners
   (section 87302) and requires that each County and city treasurers code
   be approved by a "code reviewing County and city public officials who
   body" (section 87303). manage public investments Fair Political
   Practices Commission 3 Your Duty To File (10/2001) FPPC The law
   requires this decentralized sys- government employee over a significant
   pe- tem. Section 87301 states: riod of time, or who make or participate
   - without significant intervening review - in It is the policy of this
   act that the making of government decisions, may Conflict of Interest
   Codes shall be required to file (See FPPC Regulation be formulated at
   the most de- 18701). centralized level possible, but without precluding
   intra- Every state and local government of- departmental review. Any
   ficial, employee and consultant must re- question of the level of a de-
   frain from making or participating in a partment which should be
   government decision that has a rea- deemed an "agency" for pur- sonably
   foreseeable material financial poses of Section 87300 shall be effect
   on his or her personal financial in- resolved by the code reviewing
   terests, regardless of whether the indi- body. vidual is required to
   file a statement of economic interests. When an agency adopts or amends
   its conflict-of-interest code, how does it deter- Unlike the officials
   who must disclose mine which agency positions are covered under section
   87200 of the Act, certain em- under the code and which are not? ployees
   designated under agency conflict- of-interest codes may have to make
   only Each agency conflict-of-interest code limited disclosures of their
   financial inter- must designate, or include, the employee ests. The
   amount of disclosure will depend positions within that agency "which
   involve upon their duties. In general, those employ- the making or
   participation in the making of ees in positions with broader decision-
   decisions which may foreseeably have a making authority will have to
   provide material effect on any financial interest" of broader
   disclosure of their personal finan- the employee (section 87302(a)).
   cial interests. These officials and employees must file Agencies must
   amend their conflict-of- form 700 periodically and disclose certain
   interest codes when necessary to add or investments, interests in real
   property, delete designated positions and disclosure sources of income,
   gifts, loans and busi- categories. Conflict-of-interest codes are ness
   positions. These filers are sometimes reviewed every two years. If an
   employee informally referred to as "designated em- believes the amount
   of disclosure required ployees" or "code filers." for his or her
   position should be revised, those concerns can be addressed by the In
   some cases, consultants to govern- agency, including during the review
   proc- ment agencies are required to file state- ess. ments of economic
   interests under agency conflict-of-interest codes. Generally speak- The
   FPPC reviews conflict-of-interest ing, consultants who perform the
   duties of a codes for all state agencies and all multi- Fair Political
   Practices Commission 4 Your Duty To File (10/2001) FPPC county agencies
    approximately 1,000 vidual conflict-of-interest codes, with each
   codes. Codes adopted by other local agen- agency adding its individual
   list of desig- cies are reviewed by the appropriate county nated
   employees and the types of disclo- board of supervisors or city
   council, de- sure required of different employee posi- pending upon the
   jurisdiction of the agency tions. This regulation can be found on the
   (see section 82011). FPPC web site, www.fppc.ca.gov. FPPC staff members
   also provide assistance or The FPPC has adopted regulations to training
   on conflict-of-interest codes to local assist agencies in adopting
   conflict-of- and state agencies and code-reviewing interest codes. All
   state agencies and most bodies. Check the FPPC web site or call 1-
   local agencies now use a regulation (FPPC 866-ASK-FPPC for a schedule
   of upcoming Regulation 18730) as the body of their indi- training
   seminars. Chart 3 - Examples of where form 700 is filed: . * City
   Councilperson Rodriguez must disclose under section 87200 of the
   Political Reform Act. She files her form 700 with the city clerk
   (filing offi- cial), who retains a copy and forwards the original to
   the FPPC (filing offi- cer). The city clerk also receives and retains
   forms filed by employees of city agencies who have been designated in
   the city's conflict-of-interest code. For the employees' forms, the
   city clerk is the filing officer. * State Senator Smith is an official
   specified in Gov. Code section 87200. She files her form 700 with the
   secretary of the senate (filing official), who retains a copy and
   forwards the original to the FPPC (filing officer). * The Department of
   Social Services is a state agency and has adopted a
   conflict-of-interest code designating those positions within the agency
   that must file form 700. The code requires the forms to be filed with
   the agency's personnel division. However, the code also states that the
   per- sonnel division will retain a copy of the forms filed by the
   director and chief deputy director and forward the originals to the
   FPPC. The personnel divi- sion is the filing officer for forms filed by
   the employees and is the filing of- ficial for the director and chief
   deputy director. The FPPC is the filing offi- cer for the director and
   chief deputy director. * Chief Jones occupies a position designated by
   the conflict-of-interest code adopted by the Siskiyou County Fire
   Services District, a local government agency. The forms from Jones and
   all other employees designated by the code are filed with and retained
   by the district. Fair Political Practices Commission 5 Your Duty To
   File (10/2001) An outline of the disclosure process - Chart 4 1. Two
   types of filers: - "87200 filers" whose positions are listed in Gov.
   code section 87200 - "Designated officials" - state and local
   government agencies are required to adopt a conflict-of-interest code
   and designate decision makers who file disclosure statements 2. Types
   of statements filed on form 700: - Assuming office/initial - Annual -
   Leaving Office - Candidate - Amended statements 3. Places to file the
   form: - Section 87200 filers file with their state, city or county
   agency, which in most cases retains a copy and forwards the original to
   the FPPC - "Designated officials" file their forms with their agency 1)
   Most of these originals retained by agency 2) Some originals forwarded
   to the FPPC (such as state department heads, board and commission
   members, selected multi-county agencies) with copies retained by the
   agency 3) Senate and Assembly staff members file directly with the FPPC
   - Candidate statements are filed with the appropriate election
   official, such as the local registrar of voters or clerk 4. Filing
   officers and filing officials - Filing officer retains original
   statements 1) Supplies forms, notifies filers 2) Logs statements,
   notifies non-filers 3) Reviews statements and requests amendments 4)
   Imposes late filing penalties 5) Provides public access - Filing
   official retains copy and forwards original to filing officer 1)
   Supplies forms, notifies filers 2) Sends names of filers to filing
   officers 3) Logs forms sent to filing officer 4) Provides public access
   to copies of forms Fair Political Practices Commission 6 Your Duty To
   File (10/2001) FPPC Where do I file my form 700? taries, directors and
   chief deputy direc- tors of state agencies) The Act mandates a
   decentralized sys- tem for filing, reviewing and retaining the ÿ
   employees of certain multi-county agen- form 700 statements of economic
   interests. cies This system is specified in section 87500 of the
   Government Code. Examples can be Regulation 18115 explains the respec-
   found in Chart 3 on Page 5, and the proc- tive roles of filing officers
   and filing officials. ess is outlined in Chart 4 on Page 6. Briefly,
   filing officers assess fines for late- filed statements, review all
   statements for Candidates file their statements of eco- facial
   compliance, perform an in-depth re- nomic interests with their election
   official, view of some statements, and refer prob- such as their
   registrar of voters or city clerk. lems to the FPPC for potential
   enforcement actions. The FPPC now has an expedited The vast majority of
   public officials and and streamlined enforcement program for employees
   file their form 700 with a filing late-filed statements of economic
   interests. officer at their own agency. This person re- views, logs and
   files the statement, pro- Deadlines for filing statements of vides
   public access to the form and per- economic interests (form 700) forms
   other duties. Candidates for certain elected positions In most other
   cases, public officials and must file a candidate statement prior to
   employees file their statement with a filing their election. Each type
   of statement has official at their agency, who acts as an in- a
   specified "reporting period" (such as a termediary and, after making a
   copy, for- calendar year) and is filed on the form 700 wards the
   original statement to the FPPC or statement of economic interests. to a
   county filing officer. Upon assuming his or her public office The FPPC
   receives  and is the filing or job, an official first files an
   "assuming of- officer for  approximately 20,000 state- fice" or
   "initial" statement of economic inter- ments of economic interest filed
   on an inter- ests. After that, the official or employee mediary basis
   with other agencies. These files an annual statement each year until
   statements include the officials specified in he or she leaves office,
   at which time a section 87200 as well as the following: leaving office
   statement must be filed. ÿ designated employees of the state sen- ate
   and state assembly Candidate statements: Candidates for elective
   offices specified in section 87200 ÿ members appointed to state boards
   and must file form 700 no later than the dead- commissions line for
   filing a declaration of candidacy to appear on a ballot. State and
   local elec- ÿ state department heads (agency secre- Fair Political
   Practices Commission 7 Your Duty To File (10/2001) FPPC tions occur
   throughout the year, and filing commissioners; members of state times
   vary. Some local conflict-of-interest boards and commissions specified
   in codes may require candidates for other section 87200: file on March
   1. elective offices (such as school board or city clerk) to file
   candidate statements. ÿ elected CalPERS board members: file Most do not
   have this requirement. on April 1. Assuming Office State- ÿ all others:
   file on April 1. (Some local ments: agency conflict-of-interest codes
   may specify a dif- ÿ elected officials: ferent date.) file 30 days
   after assuming office. Leaving office statements: file ÿ appointed
   offi- within 30 days of cials under sec- leaving office. tion 87200:
   file 30 days after as- Amendments: an suming office or amendment to a
   form 10 days after ap- 700 may be filed at pointment or any time-there
   is no nomination if sub- deadline. A filer may ject to state Sen-
   submit more than ate or judicial con- one amendment. firmation. ÿ other
   appointed officials: file 30 days Expanded Statements: many officials
   hold after assuming office or 30 days after more than one position
   covered under the appointment or nomination if subject to Act and may
   combine all of their filing obli- state Senate confirmation. gations on
   one form, with a copy containing an original signature filed with each
   agency. Initial statements (officials whose posi- tions are added to a
   new or amended Exceptions: conflict of interest code): file 30 days af-
   ter the effective date of the conflict-of- There are several exceptions
   to the filing interest code or amendment to an existing deadlines:
   code. ÿ Elected state officers (newly elected) Annual Statements: may
   not be required to file assuming of- fice statements. They file a
   candidate ÿ elected state officers; judges and court Fair Political
   Practices Commission 8 Your Duty To File (10/2001) FPPC statement, then
   the next annual state- tempore judges, and part-time court ment.
   commissioners are required to file form 700 only if they serve 30 days
   or more ÿ An official who completes a term of of- in a calendar year.
   fice and, within 30 days, begins a new term in the same office is not
   required ÿ Any deadline that falls on a Saturday, to file a leaving or
   assuming office Sunday or official state holiday is auto- statement
   (such as when an elected of- matically moved to the next business
   ficial is reelected to the same office). day. ÿ An official who leaves
   an office and, Important note within 30 days, assumes another posi-
   tion with the same agency, or in the This Fair Political Practices
   Commission same jurisdiction (such as when a city fact sheet discusses
   provisions of Califor- planning commissioner is elected nia's Political
   Reform Act relating to eco- mayor) is not required to file a leaving
   nomic disclosure and reporting require- or assuming office statement.
   ments for public officials. While we hope you find the information
   helpful, you ÿ An official who assumes office between should not rely
   on the fact sheet alone October 1 and December 31, and who to ensure
   compliance with the Act. If properly files an assuming office state-
   you have any questions, consult the Act ment, is not required to file
   the next an- and FPPC regulations, your agency's filing nual statement,
   but will wait until the fol- official or legal counsel, or call the
   FPPC's lowing year. toll-free help line at 1-866-ASK-FPPC (1-
   866-275-3772). This fact sheet, the Act, ÿ A candidate who has filed an
   assuming regulations and other important information office or an
   annual statement within 60 are on our web site, www.fppc.ca.gov. days
   prior to filing a declaration of can- didacy is not required to file a
   candidate statement. ÿ Certain statements may be combined. For example,
   if an official who normally files an annual statement on March 1 leaves
   office between January 1 and February 28, he or she can combine the A
   good idea - annual and leaving office statements, Call for toll-free
   advice at: as long as the statement is filed by 1-866-ASK-FPPC March 1.
   (1-866-275-3772) ÿ Retired judges who serve part-time, pro Fair
   Political Practices Commission 9 Your Duty To File (10/2001)
