http://www.absc.usgs.gov/glba/glba_prog.htm

   USGS - Science for a changing world

   Glacier Bay projects navigation bar
   Mountains in Glacier Bay National Park
   Alaska Biological Science Center              Glacier Bay National Park
   Projects

   Glacier Bay Projects Investigators
   Dark Blue Right Arrow Fjord oceanographic patterns and processes in
   Glacier Bay, Alaska - Philip Hooge
   Dark Blue Right Arrow Process structuring coastal marine communities in
   Alaska: DOI trust resources. - James Bodkin, George Esslinger and
   Spencer J. Taggart
   Dark Blue Right Arrow Genetic structure of coho salmon in the Glacier
   Bay area, Alaska. - Kim Scribner, Jennifer Nielsen, E. Eric Knudsen and
   G. Kevin Sage
   Dark Blue Right Arrow Development of coastal monitoring protocols and
   process-based studies to address landscape-scale variation in coastal
   communities of certain national parks in Alaska. - Gail Irvine
   Dark Blue Right Arrow Biological colonization processes of coastal
   streams. - E. Eric Knudsen, A.M. Milner, and Chad Soiseth
   Dark Blue Right Arrow Benthic habitat mapping at Glacier Bay, Alaska:
   Integrating physical structure and biohabitats - Philip Hooge and Paul
   Carlson
   Dark Blue Right Arrow Small schooling fish and marine predators in
   Glacier Bay National Park - John Piatt
   Dark Blue Right Arrow Testing the Effectiveness of a High Latitude
   Marine Reserve Network: A Multi-Species Movement Study in Glacier Bay
   National Park, Alaska - Spencer J. Taggart and Philip Hooge
   Dark Blue Right Arrow Habitat relationships and inter-specific
   interactions of marine species of concern in Glacier Bay: Pacific
   Halibut - Philip Hooge
   Dark Blue Right Arrow GIS Tools - Philip Hooge
   Dark Blue Right Arrow Quantify the effects of commercial Dungeness crab
   fishing on the Glacier Bay marine ecosystem - Spencer J. Taggart,
   Charles E. O'Clair, and Thomas C. Shirley
   Dark Blue Right Arrow Risk assessment of bear-human conflict at Glacier
   Bay National Park & Preserve Alaska - Thomas Smith

   Glacier Bay National Park Programs

   The USGS, Alaska Biological Science Center (ABSC), in cooperation with
   the National Park Service, is conducting a number of research projects
   in Glacier Bay National Park and Preserve (GBNPP). Most of the research
   is in response to issues of concern for GBNPP resource managers,
   although ABSC researchers are also availing themselves of the
   extraordinary research setting of Glacier Bay to conduct breakthrough
   science with broad application.

   ABSC has collected years of data on crabs and halibut as a baseline
   prior to recent closures of certain portions of the Bay. Now that the
   areas have been closed, new studies are being designed to use these de
   facto fisheries reserves for evaluating the effectiveness of Marine
   Protected Areas (MPA) as a fisheries management option. The Glacier Bay
   closures are providing the first major opportunity to evaluate MPAs in
   the North Pacific.  Extensive data is being collected on oceanography
   of this dynamic and changing habitat. The bottom is being thoroughly
   mapped as well. These extensive data sets will be correlated with
   observations on halibut, crabs, sea otters, seabirds, and their prey to
   further understand the connections among ecosystem components.  ABSC
   has amassed large amounts of fisheries data, particularly for Dungeness
   crabs and halibut. Several previous paradigms have been brought into
   question. For example, our data have revealed that Glacier Bay halibut
   do not necessarily migrate to the open Pacific Ocean as much as had
   been thought and appear to have fairly limited home ranges within the
   Bay.

   Sea otters are gradually recolonizing Glacier Bay. They have remarkably
   strong effects on the ecology of the marine ecosystem wherever they
   graze heavily. ABSC researchers are documenting the resultant ecosystem
   changes and differentiating between effects due to sea otters and
   changes in commercial fisheries for species such as crabs, one of the
   otters’ favorite prey.

   ABSC is developing detailed, scientifically credible methods for
   long-term monitoring of the rocky intertidal zone to help Park resource
   managers detect both human-induced and natural changes.

   Several seabird studies include research on the possible impacts of
   subsistence egg-collecting on seagulls nesting at Marble Island,
   monitoring the population trends and ecology of black-legged
   kittiwakes, and documenting the seasonal distribution of seabirds on
   Park waters.  Small schooling fish are the basis for a number of
   predator populations of fish, seabirds, and marine mammals. ABSC
   scientists are documenting the abundance, distribution, and species
   composition of these critical populations in relation to oceanographic
   and habitat features.

   Glacial recession over the past 200 years has uncovered numerous small
   streams. These interdisciplinary studies are revealing the important
   factors in biological development of stream communities. Results will
   provide clues for managers trying to restore degraded streams in
   populated areas of the Pacific Northwest and Alaska.

   A new study is being designed to help Park managers monitor the
   frequency and severity of bear/human interactions at popular campsites
   and then create a management scheme to minimize dangers to humans and
   bears.

   Glacier Bay National Park panorama The myriad ABSC and other studies in
   Glacier Bay provide a rare opportunity to coordinate scientific
   findings and information among all the various ecosystem components
   being studied. ABSC scientists are seeking opportunities with our
   cooperators to promote and support integration at every step, to
   formulate one of the first true "Ecosystem Studies" in the marine
   environment of the North Pacific.

   Glacier Bay Research Projects at ABSC Fact Sheet - [PDF File - 513 KB]

                               Last Reviewed:
