http://fire.pppl.gov/craig_feinstein.pdf

   For Immediate Release June 28, 2001 CRAIG AND FEINSTEIN INTRODUCE BILL
   TO ADVANCE NEW ENERGY SOURCE WASHINGTON DC - Senators Larry Craig
   (R-ID) and Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) introduced today the Fusion Energy
   Sciences Act of 2001, a bill to strengthen the fusion program at the
   Department of Energy and speed up planning for the next major step in
   fusion energy science development. "It is critical that we focus our
   efforts on developing and refining promising new sources of
   environmentally friendly energy, and this bill expands our efforts to
   develop this promising source. If we can successfully harness the
   energy released by the joining of atoms, fusion will be close to an
   ideal energy source, because it emits zero air pollutants and its fuel
   source, hydrogen, is in nearly unlimited supply," said Senator Craig.
   "Fusion is a safe, almost inexhaustible energy source with major
   environmental advantages. As a co-sponsor of this legislation, I hope
   to see fusion move quickly from an experiment in the lab to a reality
   for our homes and businesses," Senator Feinstein said. "While I work on
   the short-term problems in California, I join my colleague from Idaho
   on this bill to develop a key long-term solution to our current energy
   problems." Simply put, fusion is the combining -- or fusion -- of two
   small atoms into a larger atom: when two atomic nuclei fuse, tremendous
   amounts of energy are released. Fusion is the energy source that powers
   the sun and the stars, and has promising potential to contribute a
   strong source of safe, reliable environmentally sound energy to our
   nation's domestic energy supply. With the differences of opinion about
   the causes of our current energy problems and what the solutions are,
   Craig and Feinstein say there is general consensus that energy forms a
   vital link to our economic prosperity and continued investment in new
   technology is crucial. This bill assures that as short term energy
   needs are sorted out, a strong focus remains on long term investment in
   fusion energy, which has the potential to help secure our energy
   future. Representatives Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) and Mike Simpson (R-ID) are
   cosponsors of the companion legislation (HR1781) in the House of
   Representatives.
