http://www.dhs.ca.gov/home/publicnotices/DCDC%20-%20R-58-00E%20-%20Disease%20Reporting.pdf

   TITLE 17 CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH SERVICES ACTION: Notice of
   Emergency Rulemaking SUBJECT: Disease Reporting to Assess Potential
   Bioterrorism Events (R-58-00E) PUBLIC PROCEEDINGS: Notice is hereby
   given that the California Department of Health Services will conduct a
   public hearing commencing at 10 a.m. on January 7, 2002 in the
   auditorium at 714 P Street, Sacramento, CA, during which time any
   interested person or such person's duly authorized representative may
   present statements, arguments or contentions relevant to the action
   described in this notice. Any written statements, arguments or
   contentions must be received by the Office of Regulations, Department
   of Health Services, 714 P Street, Room 1000, P.O. Box 942732,
   Sacramento, CA 94234- 7320, by 5 p.m. on January 9, 2002, which is
   hereby designated as the close of the written comment period. It is
   requested but not required that written statements, arguments or
   contentions sent by mail or hand-delivered be submitted in triplicate.
   Comments by FAX (916-657-1459) or email (regulation@dhs.ca.gov) must be
   received before 5:00 p.m. on the last day of the public comment period.
   All comments, including email or fax transmissions, should include the
   author's name and U.S. Postal Service mailing address in order for the
   Department to provide copies of any notices for proposed changes in the
   regulation text on which additional comments may be solicited.
   CONTACTS: Inquiries concerning the action described in this notice may
   be directed to Barbara Gallaway, R.N., M.S.N. of the Office of
   Regulations at (916) 657-3197, or to the designated backup contact
   person, Linda Tutor, at (916) 654-0381. Inquiries regarding the
   substance of the regulations may be directed to S. Benson Werner, M.D.,
   Chief, Disease Investigation Section of the Division of Communicable
   Disease Control, at (510) 540-2566. In any such inquiries, please
   identify the action by using the Department regulation control number
   R-58-00E. Persons wishing to use the California Relay Service may do so
   at no cost. The telephone numbers for accessing this service are:
   1-800-735-2929, if you have a TDD; or 1-800-735-2922, if you do not
   have a TDD. INFORMATIVE DIGEST/POLICY STATEMENT OVERVIEW: The State
   Department of Health Services (Department) examines into the causes of
   communicable disease in humans and domestic animals that occur or are
   likely to occur in this state (Health and Safety Code 120125) and
   adopts and enforces rules and regulations for such purposes (Health and
   Safety Code 100275). The Department, acting with the California
   Conference of Local Health Officers, has -1- determined that there is
   an urgent need to amend Title 17 regulations concerning reportable
   diseases and conditions to counter the growing threat of anti-U.S.
   bioterroristic acts from such sources as hostile rogue nations,
   international terrorist organizations, and domestic antigovernment
   militia or cult groups that may significantly affect the public health
   in California. These amendments are made as part of an urgent national
   program coordinated by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
   (CDC) to have prime candidate bioterrorism disease agents immediately
   reportable in all 50 states. The regulations dealing with communicable
   diseases were last amended in 1996. These emergency regulations update
   the current list of reportable diseases, the reporting requirements and
   related procedures for health care providers, local health officers,
   and directors of clinical laboratories by amendment of Sections 2500,
   2502, 2505, 2551, 2552, 2553, 2596, 2614, and 2626, and adoption of a
   new Section, 2638, to Title 17, California Code of Regulations. In
   Section 2500, two new diseases/conditions, i.e., smallpox (variola) and
   varicella (deaths only), are added to the list of diseases that must be
   reported by the health care provider to the local health officer. In
   addition, the reporting time interval allowed to health care providers
   after the diagnosis of three diseases/conditions, i.e., brucellosis,
   tularemia, and occurrence of any unusual disease, listed in Section
   2500 is shortened, from "within 7 days" to "immediately by telephone."
   In Section 2502, three new diseases/conditions that local health
   officers must send case reports on to the Department are added, i.e.,
   smallpox (variola), varicella (deaths only), and viral hemorrhagic
   fevers. In addition, seven diseases/conditions that require immediate
   telephonic reports by the local health officer to the Department are
   added, i.e., brucellosis, smallpox (variola), tularemia, varicella
   (deaths only), viral hemorrhagic fevers, occurrence of any unusual
   diseases, and outbreaks of any disease. In Section 2505, pertaining to
   laboratories, laboratory findings indicative/suggestive of six new
   diseases/conditions are added to the laboratory reportable list, i.e.,
   anthrax, botulism, brucellosis, smallpox (variola), tularemia, and
   viral hemorrhagic fever agents (e.g., Crimean-Congo, Ebola, Lassa, and
   Marburg viruses). These six diseases, plus plague (animal or human), a
   disease already reportable under Section 2505, are made reportable to
   the local health officer within one hour after the laboratory has
   notified the health care provider who submitted the clinical specimen
   for analysis. In amendments made to the sections dealing with specific
   diseases and conditions (Sections 2551 Anthrax, 2552 Botulism, 2553
   Brucellosis, 2596 Plague, 2614 Smallpox, and 2626 Tularemia), changes
   are limited to modifications of patient isolation requirements,
   clinical laboratory reporting requirements, quarantine requirements for
   contacts of cases, local health officer reporting requirements, and
   deletion of archaic language. -2- In Section 2638 new specific disease
   requirements are adopted for viral hemorrhagic fevers (e.g.,
   Crimean-Congo, Ebola, Lassa, and Marburg viruses), which cover patient
   isolation, prevention of infection transmission, and reporting
   requirements. Specifically, the changes amend Title 17 California Code
   of Regulations Sections 2500, 2502, 2505, 2551, 2552, 2553, 2596, 2614,
   and 2626, and adopt Section 2638. AUTHORITY: Sections 100180, 100275,
   120125, 120130, 120145, 120175 and 125095, Health and Safety Code; and
   Section 555(b), Business and Professions Code. REFERENCE: Sections 7,
   1603.1, 100180, 100275, 100325, 100330, 103925, 113150, 113155, 120125,
   120130, 120140, 120145, 120175, 120185, 120190, 120195, 120215, 120240,
   120245, 120250, 120575, 121365 and 125100, Health and Safety Code;
   Sections 551, 554, 555, 1209, 1246.5 and 1288, Business and Professions
   Code; Section 1798.3, Civil Code; 42 U.S.C. Sections 290ee-3 and
   290dd-3; 42 C.F.R. Sections 2.11 and 2.12; Cal. Const. art. 1, Section
   1; Section 1040, Evidence Code; and Sections 11181 and 11182,
   Government Code. FISCAL IMPACT ESTIMATE: A. Fiscal Effect on Local
   Government: None. B. Fiscal Effect on State Government: None. C. Fiscal
   Effect on Federal Funding of State Programs: None. D. All cost impacts,
   known to the Department at the time the notice of emergency action was
   submitted to the Office of Administrative Law, that a representative
   private person or business would necessarily incur in reasonable
   compliance with the emergency action: 1) The agency is not aware of any
   cost impacts that a representative private person or business would
   necessarily incur in reasonable compliance with the emergency action.
   2) The Department of Health Services is not aware of any but
   insignificant costs that a representative business (only clinical
   laboratories providing microbiological services would be affected)
   would necessarily incur in full compliance with the proposed action of
   these regulations. In the absence of a successful bioterrorist attack,
   the additional number of reports required by these regulations would be
   approximately 100 per year. The additional costs for laboratories would
   amount to 100 telephone calls and 100 faxes. At a liberal allowance of
   $5.00 per telephone call and per fax, this cost of $1,000.00 spread
   over at least 2,000 clinical laboratories that perform microbiological
   analyses within the state, would average -3- out to 50 cents per
   laboratory. Even if all specimens were processed by a single
   laboratory, the entire cost would be $1,000.00. In the event of a
   successful bioterrorist attack, reporting costs would depend on the
   extent of the disease outbreak but would still be insignificant to any
   one laboratory. 3) Health care providers, including physicians, are
   currently required to report all the diseases covered by this
   regulation, either by the specific disease name or as an occurrence of
   any unusual disease. E. Other Nondiscretionary Cost or Savings Imposed
   on Local Agencies: None. DETERMINATIONS: The Department has determined
   that the regulations would not impose a mandate on local agencies or
   school districts, nor are there any costs for which reimbursement is
   required by Part 7 (commencing with Section 17500) of Division 4 of the
   Government Code. The Department has made an initial determination that
   the regulations would not have a significant statewide adverse economic
   impact directly affecting business, including the ability of California
   businesses to compete with businesses in other states. The Department
   has determined that the regulations would not significantly affect the
   following: (1) The creation or elimination of jobs within the State of
   California. (2) The creation of new businesses or the elimination of
   existing businesses within the State of California. (3) The expansion
   of businesses currently doing business within the State of California.
   The Department has determined that the regulations would affect small
   business. The Department has determined that the regulations will have
   no impact on housing costs. AVAILABILITY OF STATEMENT OF REASONS AND
   TEXT OF REGULATIONS: The Department has prepared and has available for
   public review an initial statement of reasons for the emergency
   regulations, all the information upon which the emergency regulations
   are based, and the text of the emergency regulations. A copy of the
   initial statement of reasons and a copy of the text of the emergency
   regulations are available upon request by writing to the Office of
   Regulations at the address noted above, which address will also be the
   location of public records, including reports, documentation, and other
   material related to the emergency regulations (rulemaking file).
   Additionally, a copy of the final statement of reasons (when prepared)
   will be available upon request from the Office of Regulations at the
   address noted above. Materials regarding the emergency -4- regulations
   that are available via the Internet may be accessed at
   http://www.dhs.ca.gov/regulation/. AVAILABILITY OF CHANGED OR MODIFIED
   TEXT: The full text of any regulation which is changed or modified from
   the express terms of the emergency action will be made available by the
   Department's Office of Regulations at least 15 days prior to the date
   on which the Department adopts, amends, or repeals the resulting
   regulation. ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS AND COMMENTS: In accordance with
   Government Code Section 11346.5(a)(13) the Department must determine
   that no reasonable alternative considered by the Department or that has
   otherwise been identified and brought to the attention of the
   Department would be more effective in carrying out the purpose for
   which the action was taken or would be as effective and less burdensome
   to affected private persons than the emergency action. Other regulation
   changes may be scheduled for hearing at the same time appointed for
   public hearing on the action described in this notice. An agenda for
   the public hearing will be posted at the time and place of hearing
   designated above. Sign language interpreting services at a public
   hearing or other reasonable accommodation will be provided upon
   request. Such request should be made no later than 21 days prior to the
   close of the written comment period, and addressed to the Office of
   Civil Rights within the Department of Health Services by phone
   (916-657-1411); FAX (916- 657-0153); TDD (916-657-2861); or email
   (civilrights-ra@dhs.ca.gov). DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH SERVICES R-__-__E
   Dated: Diana M. Bontá, R.N., Dr.P.H. Director -5- FINDING OF EMERGENCY
   Introduction Since the California Code of Regulations Subchapter 1,
   Reportable Diseases and Conditions (17CCR 2500 to 2653) underwent its
   last major revision in 1996 (Register 96, No. 5) to address newly
   recognized emerging and reemerging infectious diseases, a new disease
   threat has arisen. This new threat has potential to do great harm
   whenever it is employed. It is the threat of bioterrorist attacks
   against the United States, especially the state of California. Major
   terrorist attacks against the U.S. have involved powerful explosive
   agents directed against the occupants of commercial or government
   buildings, e.g., the World Trade Center in New York City (1993), the
   Alfred P. Murrah Building in Oklahoma City (1995), the U.S. Embassies
   in Kenya and Tanzania (1998), the United States Navy Destroyer Cole in
   Yemen (2000) and the World Trade Center (2001). All of these terrorist
   bombings caused significant losses of life and serious injuries. Such
   acts of terror could as well have involved devastating biological or
   toxic chemical weapons. In 1994 and 1995 Japan suffered 2 deadly
   terrorist sarin gas attacks perpetrated by the Japanese Aum Shinrikyo
   cult in Matsumoto City and Tokyo. The result was 19 deaths, 4,300
   serious illnesses, and general panic. The cult was also found to be
   working with the candidate bioweapon agents of anthrax, botulism, Q
   fever, Ebola virus, and other toxic chemicals in their laboratories.
   There are reports that members had made crude airborne test releases of
   potentially lethal biologic agents in Japan on at least 10 occasions,
   apparently without discernible success. The Aum Shinrikyo remains
   active in Japan and Russia. While no toxic gas attacks by terrorists
   have been recognized in the U.S., 2 terroristic episodes involving
   foodborne disease bacteria were documented in the 1990s. The first
   involved the Rajneesh religious cult in The Dalles, Oregon, where over
   751 cases of salmonellosis were caused by the intentional contamination
   of restaurant salad bars. The second episode was caused by a rare
   strain of shigella bacteria which had been used to contaminate baked
   goods in the coffee break room of a medical laboratory in Dallas,
   Texas. The unusual strain of shigella organism was identical to one
   stored in the laboratory. The only vial stocked in the laboratory
   containing this organism showed signs of tampering. In addition, the
   U.S. experienced a string of 7 bioterroristic hoaxes in 1998 involving
   threats of anthrax exposures in public and private buildings. These
   took the form of telephone threats alleging contamination of
   ventilation systems and letters with anthrax spores. No evidence of
   anthrax was found in any instance, but the threats had to be managed as
   bioterroristic events until proved otherwise. In 2001, bioterrorist
   incidents of -6- R-58-00E 11/1/01 anthrax exposure occurred in places
   such as Florida, New York, New Jersey and Washington, DC, some of which
   caused cases of clinical anthrax. These episodes are undergoing
   epidemiological and criminal investigation. The major threat of
   bioterrorism for the U.S. comes from international terrorist groups
   such as Osama bin Laden's al Qaeda, and "rogue" nations that have
   proven records for production and/or use of chemical and/or biological
   weapons (Iraq), or are highly suspected of having clandestine offensive
   bioweapons programs (e.g., Iran, Libya, etc.). Russia, which had a
   massive bioweapons program into the early 1990s, including weaponized
   smallpox, anthrax, and plague, has ostensibly stopped all programs, but
   the status of military laboratories is unknown because they are off
   limits to Western observers. Perhaps more worrisome, many bioscientists
   working in those laboratories lost their jobs during the collapse of
   the Russian economy and a number have been recruited by several rogue
   states where they are reportedly working on bioweapons projects.
   Globally, some U.S. bioterrorism experts claim that bioweapons research
   continues in at least 13 countries. Beginning with a series of
   Presidential Decision Directives in 1995, leading to the 1997 Defense
   Against Weapons of Mass Destruction Act of 1997 and further specific
   congressional legislation in 1998 designating $133 million to the
   Department of Health and Human Services for nationwide development of
   strategies and programs to effectively deal with bioterroristic
   attacks, all 50 states are now engaged in the development of such
   programs to detect biological attacks and effectively counter the
   effects of any attack. Public health agencies in California have
   received over $3 million of these funds for public health preparedness
   and response to bioterroristic attacks. One million dollars of this sum
   is designated for enhancement of disease surveillance, epidemiologic
   capacities, and electronic laboratory-based disease reporting. The CDC
   and bioterrorism experts have focused on 7 disease agents/conditions
   for intensive surveillance and rapid reporting. These are the agents of
   anthrax, botulism, brucellosis, plague, smallpox, tularemia, and viral
   hemorrhagic fevers. There is a consensus among experts that these
   agents are the most likely to be used because of their devastating
   physical and psychological effects, and their ability to be weaponized
   and effectively delivered to a target area. These diseases have the
   capacity to evidence high fatality rates, (e.g., anthrax 80%) and for
   some, to also spread person-to-person throughout the U.S. and abroad
   (e.g., smallpox). Vaccines are not available against most of these
   agents except in token amounts (anthrax, plague, and smallpox for the
   military). With the exception of smallpox vaccine, none of the others
   are very effective. For smallpox, no vaccine has been manufactured
   since 1980, leaving reserves for civilian use grossly insufficient.
   Antibiotics can be effective against some of the bacterial diseases
   (anthrax, brucellosis, plague, and tularemia), but treatment must be
   started very early after onset of illness to be effective (e.g.,
   inhalation anthrax), making early diagnosis and immediate reporting to
   public health officials critically important in saving lives. 7
   R-58-00E 11/1/01 These emergency regulations address the need to make
   the most serious and likely candidate bioterrorism
   diseases/conditions/agents as identified by the CDC and other
   bioterrorism experts immediately reportable by health care providers,
   directors of medical laboratories, and local health officers, and to
   make these regulations effective in the shortest time possible as
   emergency regulations. Such regulations have been adopted, or are in
   the process of being adopted in all 50 states. The Department of Health
   Services finds that the adoption of these emergency regulations is
   required for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
   safety and general welfare. SPECIFIC FINDINGS OF EMERGENCY 1. Anthrax
   Anthrax is a bacterial disease caused by a bacillus found in certain
   soils rich in organics. It is primarily a veterinary disease affecting
   cattle, sheep, goats, and horses. Animals contract the disease when
   grazing on contaminated soil and feed. Humans become infected by
   inoculation of skin breaks with anthrax after contact with infected
   animals or their by-products, by ingesting contaminated meat, or by
   inhalation of anthrax spore aerosols created by such contaminated
   products as bone meal powder or animal hair (wools). It is the
   inhalation form of anthrax that makes this agent such a fearsome
   bioweapon. The case-fatality rate for this form is over 80 percent.
   Studies based on experimental models give estimates of 130,000 to 3
   million deaths following an aerosolized release of 100 kg (220 pounds)
   of anthrax spores upwind of the Washington, D.C., area. Several
   countries are known to have developed anthrax as a bioweapon, including
   the former Soviet Union and Iraq. Inhalation anthrax begins as a severe
   flu-like illness after an incubation period of 1 to 7 days (rarely
   extends to 60 days). Almost half the deaths occur within 24 to 48 hours
   of symptoms onset. To prevent death, antibiotics must be given right
   after symptoms onset and continued for 60 days. The swiftly fatal
   course of inhalation anthrax makes it imperative that laboratory
   directors, in addition to health care practitioners, and local health
   officers, be required to report cases/suspected cases of anthrax (any
   type) immediately after diagnosis so local and state communicable
   disease controllers can determine if a biological weapons exposure has
   occurred. If such is the case, the early reporting by the laboratory
   would allow for the alerting of public health workers at the earliest
   time possible to confirm a bioterrorist attack and rapidly mobilize
   antibiotics for treatment of cases as soon as possible after initial
   onset of symptoms. Only with early diagnosis and immediate reporting
   will it be possible to administer life-saving antibiotics against this
   rapidly fatal disease. 2. Botulism (Infant, Foodborne, Wound, Other)] 8
   R-58-00E 11/1/01 Botulism is caused by a neurotoxin produced by the
   organism, Clostridium botulinum, which blocks nerve impulse
   transmission to muscles causing a symmetrical descending weakness
   and/or flaccid paralysis. There are 3 recognized forms: infant
   (intestinal), foodborne, and wound. The Centers for Disease Control and
   The Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists have created a
   fourth reporting rubric, "Botulism, Other" to fit those cases with no
   history of ingesting botulism-contaminated food, a wound source of
   toxin or infancy. While most of the "Other" cases probably have an
   undiscovered history of ingesting botulism-contaminated food, there is
   no such documentation that it is always the case. Certainly a
   bioterrorist attack employing botulism toxin by aerosol, which would
   mainly enter the body via the respiratory tract, would be classified
   and reported as "Botulism, Other." A rapid increase in "Botulism,
   Other" cases being reported would strongly suggest an emergency that
   needed immediate and massive attention by public health epidemiologists
   as a possible bioterrorist attack. 3. Brucellosis Brucellosis is an
   extremely debilitating zoonotic systemic bacterial disease which may
   last months to years if not properly treated with antibiotics. The case
   fatality rate is 3% to 5% in inadequately treated cases. The U.S.
   bioweaponized Brucella suis in the l940s to 1950s, and other countries
   also have weaponized Brucellae. The organism can be delivered as a
   slurry in bomblets, or a dry aerosol by the airborne route. Brucellosis
   is currently reportable. To meet the threats of bioterrorism, it is
   imperative that the reporting time frame for brucellosis be advanced
   from within 7 days of diagnosis to immediately by telephone after the
   diagnosis is made by a health care provider, or a laboratory finding
   suggestive of brucellosis is made by a laboratory. Any sudden increase
   in reported cases over a short period in persons with no known
   occupational or food exposure to Brucella organisms will raise an alert
   flag as to the possibility of a bioterrorist attack. Making brucellosis
   immediately reportable will also enable public health officials to get
   the word out to physicians to consider the disease in patients with
   compatible symptoms, which, in themselves, are not specifically
   diagnostic, unless the brucellosis organism is recovered from the
   patient or serologic tests confirm it. In strongly suspect cases of
   brucellosis awaiting laboratory confirmation, early presumptive
   specific antibiotic therapy can prevent the likelihood of chronicity. 9
   R-58-00E 11/1/01 Plague Plague is a bacterial zoonotic disease
   involving rodents and their fleas. Plague-carrying fleas then transfer
   the infection to various animals and to humans. There are 3 forms of
   the disease in humans (1) bubonic, which involves a localization of the
   infection in lymph nodes draining the site of the infected flea bite,
   (2) septicemic (an extension of the bubonic form), in which there is
   bloodstream dissemination to diverse parts of the body, including
   secondary location in the lungs resulting in pneumonia. Persons with
   secondary plague pneumonia may transmit plague by respiratory droplets
   person-to-person, giving rise to primary pneumonic or pharyngeal plague
   which is rapidly spread person-to-person. This form can lead to
   localized outbreaks or devastating epidemics. Naturally acquired
   flea-transmitted plague usually presents as bubonic plague, but
   purposeful aerosol dissemination, as would occur in biowarfare or a
   bioterrorist attack, would present as primary pneumonic plague
   (person-to-person). Untreated bubonic plague has a case-fatality rate
   of 50% to 60%. Untreated primary septicemic and pneumonic plague are
   invariably fatal. There is an urgent need for making plague
   laboratory-reportable within 1 hour after having notified the patient's
   health care provider. Should there be a plague aerosol attack by
   bioterrorists, the early alert of communicable disease epidemiologists
   will enable them to initiate intensive surveillance, identify other
   early cases, their contacts and alert the medical community. Early
   treatment of cases and prophylaxis of exposed contacts with appropriate
   antibiotics is the only way to prevent deaths and serious illness after
   a plague aerosol bioterrorist attack on Californians. 5. Smallpox
   (variola) Before vaccination was introduced, smallpox occurred
   worldwide with case fatality rates of 30% for the predominant variola
   major form and 1% for the milder variola minor. At the end of the 18th
   century, an effective vaccine protective against smallpox was
   introduced by the Englishman Edward Jenner. After almost 200 years, the
   disease of smallpox was globally eradicated in 1977 following an
   intensive 10-year campaign by WHO. In California the last cases of
   smallpox were reported in 1947, and in the U.S., 1949. Because routine
   smallpox vaccination was stopped in the U.S. in 1972, and in most of
   Europe and the rest of the world by 1980, less than one percent of
   people born since 1972 in the U.S. (since 1980 in the rest of the
   world) have ever been vaccinated against smallpox. This population
   cohort is totally susceptible to smallpox. Smallpox vaccination does
   not induce lifetime immunity, but only lasts about 10 years. Booster
   doses can restimulate immunity. When an international certificate of
   smallpox vaccination was required for international travel before
   eradication was achieved, a certificate was valid for only 3 years.
   After that, revaccination was again required for purposes of
   international travel. Because immunity is relatively short lived after
   vaccination, over 80% of the U.S. population is now fully susceptible
   to smallpox. 10 R-58-00E 11/1/01 From the time the first signs of
   smallpox skin rash appears, a patient is capable of transmitting
   smallpox virus person-to-person by airborne droplet nuclei or aerosols
   expelled from the oropharynx. In a population with low to no immunity,
   a single case will give rise to 10 to 20 secondary cases among
   contacts. In addition, virus may become airborne through ventilation
   systems to infect others in the same building. Because the great
   majority of the U.S. population is susceptible to smallpox and capable
   of transmitting the virus to close contacts or through building
   ventilation systems, it is imperative that cases be diagnosed upon
   first contact with the medical system and that cases be reported
   immediately to local health authorities. Only in this way can all
   possible preventive actions be taken so that face-to-face contacts can
   be identified and located to limit immediate local and distant spread
   by travelers. Great reliance for control of spread will be placed on
   isolation of the patient and quarantine of contacts because the
   availability of vaccine in the U.S. is limited to less than 7 million
   doses. These vaccine stocks are over 20 years old and of questionable
   potency. Except for a handful of U.S. physicians and public health
   workers who participated in the WHO smallpox eradication program from
   1966 to 1977, few, if any, U.S. trained physicians have ever seen a
   patient with smallpox and would have difficulty in recognizing a
   classic case, let alone a patient with a skin rash modified by partial
   immunity from remote vaccination years ago. As part of bioterrorism
   preparedness, frontline emergency room and outpatient clinic staff will
   receive training to recognize the signs and symptoms of classic and
   atypical smallpox presentations. Another emergency aspect of adding
   smallpox to the list of immediately reportable diseases are the
   verified reports that the former Soviet Union clandestinely perfected
   the weaponization of smallpox virus in alleged civilian biologics
   laboratories in the 1980s. Reportedly, that program, along with other
   biowarfare agents that were being developed by the Soviets, was
   disbanded under ex-President Yeltsin in the early 1990s. When the
   civilian operated biowarfare program was terminated, some of the
   scientists were actively recruited by rogue states such as Iran and
   Iraq. Furthermore, a separate line of biological laboratories
   administered by the current Russian military establishment remains
   closed to observers and a cause of continuing uneasiness. The
   successful dispersal of smallpox virus aerosols by bioterrorists in a
   major California metropolitan center could eventually infect thousands
   of persons with severe smallpox disease. Up to 30 percent of the
   infected would die of the disease. Even more sinister would be the
   spread beyond California and the U.S. by travelers exposed to the virus
   who were unwittingly incubating the virus as they silently transported
   it to near and distant cities/countries. The situation is made all the
   worse by the scarcity of smallpox vaccine to vaccinate non-immune
   persons who might have been, or eventually would be exposed to the
   virus. Vaccine in the U.S. and the world is in very short supply, and,
   in many countries, poorly preserved. It will take at least 3 years for
   a new smallpox vaccine to be 11 R-58-00E 11/1/01 developed, tested,
   produced in commercial quantities, and distributed to key centers in
   the United States. It is imperative that smallpox (variola) be added to
   the list of reportable diseases in 17CCR §2500(j), §2502(b), §2502(c),
   §2505(e)(1), and §2614. Only with cases and suspected cases of smallpox
   being made immediately reportable by health care providers, laboratory
   directors, and local health officers is there any hope that public
   health workers will be able to limit a bioterrorist introduction of
   smallpox virus to the environs of its introduction, mainly through
   isolation of cases and quarantine of contacts, and secondarily, through
   the judicious use of limited stocks of smallpox vaccine. No reliance
   can be made on the availability of smallpox antiviral drugs for
   treatment and/or prophylaxis of smallpox as the only candidate drug is
   experimental, of questionable efficacy, toxic, and requires intravenous
   administration. 6. Tularemia Tularemia is a bacterial zoonotic disease
   caused by Francisella tularensis usually transmitted through
   inoculation with tissue or blood of infected animals, or bites of
   certain insects. Pertinent to bioterrorism, respiratory exposure by
   aerosols causes severe typhoidal tularemia, often accompanied by
   pneumonia and septicemia. The case fatality rate is 35 percent in
   untreated/late-treated patients. The tularemia organism is considered a
   significant bioterroristic threat by aerosol. Tularemia is currently
   reportable by health care providers within 7 days of diagnosis. It is
   imperative that tularemia be made immediately reportable by telephone
   by health care providers and directors of laboratories to the local
   health officer who, in turn, immediately notifies the Department of
   such reports. This allows for public health epidemiologists to identify
   time-related clusters of cases up to 7 days sooner than under current
   reporting rules for tularemia. A red flag would become apparent to
   epidemiologists who could alert physicians that normally rare tularemia
   (3 cases per year) was appearing in much greater numbers and with more
   severe manifestations. Physicians then could order appropriate
   diagnostic tests in patients with tularemia-like symptoms and
   presumptively treat with life-saving antibiotics. 7. Varicella (Deaths
   Only) Varicella (chickenpox) is a relatively benign common viral
   disease of childhood, but when it occurs in adulthood, it may be more
   severe. The case-fatality rate in children is low (1/100,000) but in
   adults is 25 times higher (25/100,000). Varicella infection is
   associated with a characteristic skin rash that in most cases can be
   differentiated from the more severe rash of smallpox. Both varicella
   and smallpox 12 R-58-00E 11/1/01 may also present in fulminant severe
   hemorrhagic forms, usually fatal, and indistinguishable from each other
   by clinical examination. Virus studies are required for definitive
   diagnosis of these catastrophic forms of disease. Physicians unfamiliar
   with clinical smallpox and its hemorrhagic forms have, in the past, and
   could again misdiagnose hemorrhagic smallpox for hemorrhagic varicella.
   Such misdiagnoses of fatal hemorrhagic smallpox leading to a report of
   hemorrhagic varicella, instead of smallpox, could disastrously delay,
   or completely miss, a case of smallpox that could have been a
   significant spreader of smallpox virus to unsuspecting health care
   personnel, family and friends. Varicella deaths must be added to the
   list of reportable diseases and be made immediately reportable by
   health care providers and local health officers so that all cases of
   fatal varicella (with or without hemorrhage) can be promptly
   investigated by public health epidemiologists to rule in, or rule out,
   the possibility of what was reported as a varicella death was actually
   due to smallpox. This would be especially important if the misdiagnosed
   hemorrhagic smallpox death was the first case to appear after a
   successful bioterrorist attack. The public health response to a
   smallpox death would be critical and is vastly different from that to a
   varicella death. 8. Viral Hemorrhagic Fever Agents The viral
   hemorrhagic fever agents belong to several diverse virus families which
   are endemic in parts of Africa, South America, Asia, and Central
   Europe. All are RNA viruses and in nature are typically transmitted to
   humans by contact with infected animal reservoirs or arthropod vectors
   whose distributions determine, in part, the geographic ranges of these
   diseases. Some of the better known viruses in this group are Ebola,
   Marburg, and Lassa. To date, none of the viral hemorrhagic fever agents
   are known to be endemic in the U.S. These viruses cause severe systemic
   disease with case fatality rates of up to 90%. They also have potential
   for transmission in the hospital and laboratory by contact with
   infected blood, secretions, organs, and contaminated instruments (e.g.,
   needles and syringes). Viral hemorrhagic fever agents have great
   potential as bioweapons. They are not difficult to grow and are highly
   infectious by aerosol. The former Soviet Union is purported to have
   stopped just one-half step short from weaponizing Marburg virus in
   1991. It is essential that medical laboratories identifying these
   agents, or receiving a patient specimen for viral diagnosis of one of
   the viral hemorrhagic fever agents notify the local health officer of
   such findings/requests immediately by telephone. In turn, the local
   health officer must immediately telephone such reports to the director
   upon their receipt. Laboratory findings suggestive of viral hemorrhagic
   fever agents must be telephonically reported by laboratory directors to
   the local health officer within one hour after the laboratory notifies
   the patient's health care provider. Such reporting is necessary to help
   define the extent of the bioterrorist attack, quickly alert the medical
   community regarding specific infection control procedures, and identify
   possibly useful antiviral agents 13 R-58-00E 11/1/01 such as ribavirin
   or specific immune plasmas for treatment of infected patients. Because
   there are virtually no treatments that are effective against viral
   hemorrhagic fever agents, their occurrence in a community is truly an
   emergency that must be dealt with through basic control and prevention
   measures such as case identification, isolation, and infection control
   procedures to prevent nosocomial spread;
   identification/surveillance/quarantine of contacts, and instructions
   for prevention of sexual transmission in the recovery period. 9.
   Occurrence of Any Unusual Disease "Occurrence of Any Unusual Disease"
   is currently reportable by health care providers within 7 days of
   diagnosis/recognition. Advances in biotechnology and genetic
   engineering of microbial agents makes very real the possibility that
   bioterrorists will employ genetically altered or derived pathogenic
   organisms that manifest disease in symptom and sign complexes
   heretofore never encountered by physicians and diagnostic laboratories.
   When such unusual disease presentations in individual patients or
   clusters of patients are recognized by healthcare providers, it is
   imperative that the local health officer be immediately notified by
   telephone. In turn, the local health officer also must immediately
   notify the Director by telephone upon receiving such reports. This will
   enable State communicable disease specialists to review case findings,
   search for similar disease presentations in other counties, and alert
   CDC so that national surveillance can be intensified for the "unusual
   disease" in other states. Immediate telephonic reporting of "unusual
   diseases" will also speed laboratory studies in search of a microbial
   agent or chemical toxin causing the unusual disease. Only when the
   epidemiology of the unusual disease and/or the causative agent is
   identified will it be possible to devise control, prevention, and
   treatment strategies against a novel "unusual disease" agent. 10.
   Outbreaks of Any Disease Immediate telephonic notification of the
   department of an outbreak/epidemic of any disease in the jurisdiction
   of the local health officer not only includes all reportable
   diseases/conditions listed in subsection 2500(j) but also a local
   outbreak/epidemic of any disease whether listed or not. An outbreak of
   any disease is always cause for a public health emergency that requires
   investigation and attempts at its control. A bioterrorist attack could
   employ a genetically altered or hybrid agent unknown to previous human
   experience that does not appear in the list of reportable diseases in
   §2500(j). Nevertheless, it is essential that the disease syndrome of
   the outbreak be reported immediately to the Department to ensure that
   the Department is notified at the earliest possible moment. Such
   reports will enable the Department to assist the local health officer
   in the public health management of the outbreak, alert other local
   health jurisdictions, states and federal agencies, and to initiate
   immediate intensive statewide active surveillance for other possible
   cases. As such an outbreak related to bioterrorism could occur at any
   time, the need to make "outbreaks of any disease" reportable by local
   health officers immediately after determining that an outbreak of a
   disease is occurring or suspected in their jurisdiction is an
   emergency. 14 R-58-00E 11/1/01 INFORMATIVE DIGEST/POLICY STATEMENT
   OVERVIEW: The State Department of Health Services (Department) examines
   into the causes of communicable disease in humans and domestic animals
   that occur or are likely to occur in this state (Health and Safety Code
   120125) and adopts and enforces rules and regulations for such purposes
   (Health and Safety Code 100275). The Department, acting with the
   California Conference of Local Health Officers, has determined that
   there is an urgent need to amend Title 17 regulations concerning
   reportable diseases and conditions to counter the growing threat of
   anti-U.S. bioterroristic acts from such sources as hostile rogue
   nations, international terrorist organizations, and domestic
   antigovernment militia or cult groups that may significantly affect the
   public health in California. These amendments are made as part of an
   urgent national program coordinated by the Centers for Disease Control
   and Prevention (CDC) to have prime candidate bioterrorism disease
   agents immediately reportable in all 50 states. The regulations dealing
   with communicable diseases were last amended in 1996. These emergency
   regulations update the current list of reportable diseases, the
   reporting requirements and related procedures for health care
   providers, local health officers, and directors of clinical
   laboratories by amendment of Sections 2500, 2502, 2505, 2551, 2552,
   2553, 2596, 2614, and 2626, and adoption of a new Section, 2638, to
   Title 17, California Code of Regulations. In Section 2500, two new
   diseases/conditions, i.e., smallpox (variola) and varicella (deaths
   only), are added to the list of diseases that must be reported by the
   health care provider to the local health officer. In addition, the
   reporting time interval allowed to health care providers after the
   diagnosis of three diseases/conditions, i.e., brucellosis, tularemia,
   and occurrence of any unusual disease, listed in Section 2500 is
   shortened, from "within 7 days" to "immediately by telephone." In
   Section 2502, three new diseases/conditions that local health officers
   must send case reports on to the Department are added, i.e., smallpox
   (variola), varicella (deaths only), and viral hemorrhagic fevers. In
   addition, seven diseases/conditions that require immediate telephonic
   reports by the local health officer to the Department are added, i.e.,
   brucellosis, smallpox (variola), tularemia, varicella (deaths only),
   viral hemorrhagic fevers, occurrence of any unusual diseases, and
   outbreaks of any disease. In Section 2505, pertaining to laboratories,
   laboratory findings indicative/suggestive of six new
   diseases/conditions are added to the laboratory reportable list, i.e.,
   anthrax, botulism, brucellosis, smallpox (variola), tularemia, and
   viral hemorrhagic fever agents (e.g., Crimean-Congo, Ebola, Lassa, and
   Marburg viruses). These six diseases, plus plague (animal or human), a
   disease already reportable under Section 2505, are made reportable to
   the local health officer within one hour after the laboratory has
   notified the health care provider who submitted the clinical specimen
   for analysis. In amendments made to the sections dealing with specific
   diseases and conditions 15 R-58-00E 11/1/01 (Sections 2551 Anthrax,
   2552 Botulism, 2553 Brucellosis, 2596 Plague, 2614 Smallpox, and 2626
   Tularemia), changes are limited to modifications of patient isolation
   requirements, clinical laboratory reporting requirements, quarantine
   requirements for contacts of cases, local health officer reporting
   requirements, and deletion of archaic language. In Section 2638 new
   specific disease requirements are adopted for viral hemorrhagic fevers
   (e.g., Crimean-Congo, Ebola, Lassa, and Marburg viruses), which cover
   patient isolation, prevention of infection transmission, and reporting
   requirements. Specifically, the changes amend Title 17 California Code
   of Regulations Sections 2500, 2502, 2505, 2551, 2552, 2553, 2596, 2614,
   and 2626, and adopt Section 2638. AUTHORITY: Sections 100180, 100275,
   120125, 120130, 120145, 120175 and 125095, Health and Safety Code; and
   Section 555(b), Business and Professions Code. REFERENCE: Sections 7,
   1603.1, 100180, 100275, 100325, 100330, 103925, 113150, 113155, 120125,
   120130, 120140, 120145, 120175, 120185, 120190, 120195, 120215, 120240,
   120245, 120250, 120575, 121365 and 125100, Health and Safety Code;
   Sections 551, 554, 555, 1209, 1246.5 and 1288, Business and Professions
   Code; Section 1798.3, Civil Code; 42 U.S.C. Sections 290ee-3 and
   290dd-3; 42 C.F.R. Sections 2.11 and 2.12; Cal. Const. art. 1, Section
   1; Section 1040, Evidence Code; and Sections 11181 and 11182,
   Government Code. FISCAL IMPACT ESTIMATE: A. Fiscal Effect on Local
   Government: None. B. Fiscal Effect on State Government: None. C. Fiscal
   Effect on Federal Funding of State Programs: None. E. All cost impacts,
   known to the Department at the time the notice of emergency action was
   submitted to the Office of Administrative Law, that a representative
   private person or business would necessarily incur in reasonable
   compliance with the emergency action: 1) The agency is not aware of any
   cost impacts that a representative private person or business would
   necessarily incur in reasonable compliance with the emergency action.
   2) The Department of Health Services is not aware of any but
   insignificant costs that a representative business (only clinical
   laboratories providing microbiological services would be affected)
   would necessarily incur in full compliance with the proposed action of
   these regulations. In the absence of a 16 R-58-00E 11/1/01 successful
   bioterrorist attack, the additional number of reports required by these
   regulations would be approximately 100 per year. The additional costs
   for laboratories would amount to 100 telephone calls and 100 faxes. At
   a liberal allowance of $5.00 per telephone call and per fax, this cost
   of $1,000.00 spread over at least 2,000 clinical laboratories that
   perform microbiological analyses within the state, would average out to
   50 cents per laboratory. Even if all specimens were processed by a
   single laboratory, the entire cost would be $1,000.00. In the event of
   a successful bioterrorist attack, reporting costs would depend on the
   extent of the disease outbreak but would still be insignificant to any
   one laboratory. 3) Health care providers, including physicians, are
   currently required to report all the diseases covered by this
   regulation, either by the specific disease name or as an occurrence of
   any unusual disease. E. Other Nondiscretionary Cost or Savings Imposed
   on Local Agencies: None. DETERMINATIONS: The Department has determined
   that the regulations would not impose a mandate on local agencies or
   school districts, nor are there any costs for which reimbursement is
   required by Part 7 (commencing with Section 17500) of Division 4 of the
   Government Code. The Department has made an initial determination that
   the regulations would not have a significant statewide adverse economic
   impact directly affecting business, including the ability of California
   businesses to compete with businesses in other states. The Department
   has determined that the regulations would not significantly affect the
   following: (1) The creation or elimination of jobs within the State of
   California. (2) The creation of new businesses or the elimination of
   existing businesses within the State of California. (3) The expansion
   of businesses currently doing business within the State of California.
   The Department has determined that the regulations would affect small
   business. The Department has determined that the regulations will have
   no impact on housing costs. 17 R-58-00E 11/1/01 INITIAL STATEMENT OF
   REASONS 17 CCR Subchapter 1. Reportable Diseases and Conditions
   Pursuant to Health and Safety Code §100180, the State Department of
   Health Services (Department) may advise all local health authorities,
   and when, in its judgment, the public health is menaced, it shall
   control and regulate their action. To perform such duties, the
   Department may adopt and enforce rules and regulations for the
   execution of its duties pursuant to Health and Safety Code §100275. The
   regulation amendments described below provide the basis for the
   identification, control, and prevention of communicable diseases that
   pose a significant threat as agents of biological terrorism that menace
   the health and safety of Californians and, potentially, all
   Americans.1,2,3 Background: The bombings of the World Trade Center in
   New York City in 1993, the Alfred P. Murrah Building in Oklahoma City
   in 1995, the U.S. Embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in 1998, the United
   States Navy destroyer Cole in Yemen in 2000, and the World Trade Center
   in 2001 have demonstrated that Americans are susceptible to terrorist
   acts at home as well as abroad. Those incidents could well have
   involved biological or chemical weapons instead of explosives.4 That
   biological and chemical agents may next be the preferred instruments of
   terrorism is exemplified by several events in the 1990s. The most
   infamous of these was perpetrated by a Japanese doomsday cult, Aum
   Shinrikyo, with sarin nerve gas attacks in Matsumoto City (1994) where
   7 persons were killed and 500 hospitalized, and the Tokyo subway system
   (1995) where 12 were killed and 3,800 injured. Investigations following
   the Tokyo sarin gas attack revealed that the Aum cult had been working
   with the agents of anthrax, botulism toxin, Q fever, Ebola virus, and
   other toxic chemicals. In fact, they had attempted to disperse
   potentially lethal biological agents in airborne form in Japan on at
   least 10 other occasions.5 Closer to home, there have been 2 documented
   episodes of intentional food contamination in the U.S. during the
   1990s. The first, resulting in at least 751 cases of salmonellosis,
   occurred in The Dalles, Oregon, and was caused by the purposeful
   contamination of restaurant salad bars by the Rajneesh religious cult.6
   The second episode involved 12 cases of shigellosis among Dallas
   laboratory workers who consumed intentionally contaminated baked goods
   left anonymously in the coffee-break room of the laboratory. The
   unusual strain of Shigella used was identical to one stored in the
   laboratory, which had been tampered with.7 The salmonellosis outbreak
   was clearly an example of bioterrorism, while the shigellosis might be
   better characterized as a "biocrime" 18 R-58-00E 10/17/01 by a
   disgruntled worker. Additionally, there were a series of bioterroristic
   threats of anthrax exposure in 1998 in 4 states involving letters
   alleged to contain anthrax and telephone threats alleging anthrax
   contamination of ventilation systems in public and private buildings.
   No letters or enviornmental samples were found to be anthrax-positive.
   All 7 of these threats were hoaxes but had to be managed as
   bioterroristic events until proved otherwise.8 In 2001, bioterrorist
   incidents of anthrax exposure occurred in Florida, New York City, and
   Washington, DC, some of which caused clinical cases of anthrax. These
   episodes are undergoing epidemiological and criminal investigation. The
   major concern, of course, involves bioterrorism employed by nation
   states or those states that fund and/or supply individual terrorist
   groups who have diverse motives, e.g., religious, political, economic,
   etc. The former Soviet Union conducted a massive bioweapons program
   spanning the 1970s to the early 1990s. At one time it employed more
   than 60,000 persons. At least smallpox virus, anthrax, and plague
   bacilli were weaponized in large amounts.9,10 Presumably, these weapons
   were destroyed in 1992 under former president Yeltsin and the offensive
   aspects of biological weapons production were discontinued. However, it
   is known that some of the scientists in those programs who became
   unemployed with the collapse of the Russian economy sought positions
   elsewhere in such countries as Iran that are suspected of developing
   and/or producing bioweapons.11,12 Iraq used toxic gases in the 1980s
   against Iran and Iraqui Kurds. Prior to the Gulf War in 1991, its
   bioweapons development program was active. Even now it is believed to
   be operating clandestinely.13 At the time of the Gulf War, Iraq had
   weaponized botulism toxin, fungal toxins, and anthrax bacilli in
   ballistic missiles, bomblets, and artillery shells. With U.N. weapons
   inspectors barred from the country, the state of Iraq's bioweapons
   program remains clouded.14 Globally, some experts claim that bioweapons
   research goes on in at least 13 countries.15,16 Beginning with a series
   of Presidential Decision Directives in 1995, the threat of bioterrorism
   has received increasing attention in setting agency responsibilities
   and coordinating relationships between the involved federal agencies.
   Under the 1997 Defense Against Weapons of Mass Destruction Act, the
   Department of Defense was given a major role in developing a domestic
   preparedness program to improve the ability of local, state, and
   federal agencies to cope with chemical, biological and nuclear threats.
   In 1998 it became apparent that the involvement of biologists in
   medicine and public health was critical to confronting the problems of
   biological weapons. In a bipartisan 19 R-58-00E 10/17/01 response to
   the bioterrorism threat, Congress appropriated to Health and Human
   Services $133 million for countering biological and chemical threats,
   including $51 million for an emergency stockpile of antibiotics and
   vaccines. Most of these funds were allocated to the CDC, primarily for
   strengthening the fragile U.S. infectious disease surveillance network
   and for enhancing the capacity of public health laboratories in 50
   states and at least 120 major cities.1 The California Department of
   Health Services received over $3 million of these funds from the CDC
   for public health preparedness and response to bioterrorism. $1 million
   of this sum is designated for enhancement of surveillance and
   epidemiologic capacities and electronic laboratory-based disease
   reporting. One of the requirements of the federal grant is to make
   those diseases considered by CDC and other public health authorities to
   be the major bioterrorism threats legally and immediately reportable by
   health care providers and laboratories and, furthermore, that this
   should be made a statewide requirement as soon as possible. While
   acknowledging that many disease agents could be employed in
   bioterrorism, the focus is on those diseases which experts believe
   would be most likely used because of their devastating physical and
   psychological effects and their ability to be weaponized and
   effectively delivered to a target area. These diseases are anthrax,
   botulism, brucellosis, plague, smallpox, tularemia, and viral
   hemorrhagic fevers.3,17,18 Some of these agents can be produced in
   basic "basement laboratories" following instructions available on the
   Internet and can be aerosolized with spraying devices used in everyday
   agriculture that can be purchased "off the shelf." These diseases have
   the capacity to induce fatality rates of up to 80% (inhalation anthrax)
   and to spread person-to-person throughout the U.S. and abroad
   (smallpox). The latter disease was eradicated worldwide in 1977.
   Production of smallpox vaccine and vaccination against the disease were
   stopped throughout the world by 1980. U.S. and global emergency
   reserves of smallpox vaccine are meager to zero in virtually all
   countries and of questionable potency after more than 20 years of
   storage. If not detected early by vigilant surveillance and rapid
   disease reporting, a bioterrorist introduction of smallpox virus would
   spread rapidly and widely given the high mobility of our current
   society, not only nationally, but internationally. Detecting and
   intercepting would-be bioterrorists to prevent a release of a disease
   agent would be a formidable task as these dedicated groups are almost
   impossible for intelligence agencies and law enforcement to penetrate.
   Once a disease agent has been released, the best hope is to identify
   resultant cases of illness as soon as possible to limit morbidity and
   mortality, and for those diseases that can be transmitted person to
   person, to limit further spread by isolation, quarantine,
   administration of antibiotic/antiviral treatments, and vaccination of
   contacts. The intent of these emergency regulations is to make the most
   serious and likely 20 R-58-00E 10/17/01 candidate bioterrorism diseases
   (agents) as identified by the CDC and other experts immediately
   reportable by health care providers and laboratories and to make these
   regulations effective in the shortest possible time as emergency
   regulations. Such regulations have been adopted, or are being adopted,
   in all 50 states. The emergency regulations proposed here have the
   broad support of such professional organizations as the California
   Conference of Local Health Officers (CCLHO), the Communicable Disease
   Control and Prevention Committee of the CCLHO, and the California
   Association of Public Health Laboratory Directors. Article 1. Reporting
   17 CCR 2500. Reporting to the Local Health Authority. Pursuant to
   Health and Safety Code §120125, the Department is required to determine
   the causes, incidence, and distribution of communicable diseases in
   humans and domestic animals which affect the public health. As a
   corollary and pursuant to Health and Safety Code §120140, once informed
   by a local health officer of a communicable disease, the Department may
   take measures necessary to determine the nature of the disease and
   prevent its spread. To accomplish these goals, the Department, pursuant
   to Health and Safety Code §120130, is required to establish a list of
   reportable disease which may be changed at any time by the Department.
   The regulation changes to this section add 2 diseases or conditions to
   the list, and modify the listing of 4 other diseases. The regulation
   revisions to §2500 enable local health departments and the Department
   to monitor and manage more effectively those communicable diseases
   which bioterrorism experts, the Centers for Disease Control and
   Prevention (CDC), and the Department of Defense have designated as the
   prime candidates that bioterrorists hostile to the United States would
   employ here at home or abroad.1,2,3 This regulation was last amended in
   2000 (Register 2000, No. 20). 17 CCR 2500(a) THROUGH 2500(i) No changes
   are made to these sections. 21 R-58-00E 10/17/01 17 CCR 2500(j)
   DISEASES TO BE ADDED TO §2500(j) 1. Smallpox (Variola): Smallpox was
   once worldwide in scope and, before vaccination was introduced, almost
   everyone eventually got the disease. There were 2 forms, variola major
   (fatality rate of 30%) and variola minor (fatality rate of 1%). The
   latter was first described in South Africa in the late 19th century and
   later in the U.S., Latin America, and Europe. It often coexisted with
   variola major. With the introduction of an effective vaccine against
   smallpox at the end of the 18th century by the Englishman Edward
   Jenner, it took almost 200 years before the disease came under regional
   control and eventually to its final eradication in 1977.19 Smallpox
   spreads from person to person, primarily by airborne droplet nuclei or
   aerosols expelled from the oropharynx of infected persons or by direct
   contact. Virus particles may become airborne through ventilation
   systems to infect others in the same building. Contaminated bedding and
   linen have also been vehicles for spread. In a population with no to
   low immunity to smallpox, a single case would likely result in 10 to 20
   secondary cases among contacts.19 After an incubation period of 12 to
   14 days (range, 10-17) the patient experiences headache, high fever and
   prostration, followed by a characteristic rash which progresses from
   maculopapular to vesicular to pustular forms. The rash begins to scab
   about 3 weeks after onset of symptoms. Transmission may occur from the
   time rash appears until the scabbing stage. The above pattern accounted
   for 90% of cases in the pre-eradication era and was readily diagnosed
   in endemic areas. In 10% of patients the course is fulminant and the
   disease can be difficult to recognize as smallpox. These are the
   hemorrhagic and malignant forms, which are almost always fatal. In the
   hemorrhagic form there are frank hemorrhages into the skin and mucus
   membranes. Death occurs within 5-6 days of the rash onset. In the
   malignant form the rash becomes confluent, remains soft, flattened and
   velvety to touch like reddish crepe rubber, sometimes with hemorrhages.
   Such patients would be very difficult to diagnose by physicians who
   have had no clinical experience with smallpox. This applies to
   virtually all practicing physicians in the U.S. today. The diseases in
   California most likely to be confused with hemorrhagic smallpox would
   be hemorrhagic chickenpox, malignant chickenpox with purpura,
   meningococcal septicemia, acute leukemia, and viral hemorrahagic
   fevers. The last cases of smallpox reported in California were in 1947
   and in the U.S. in 22 R-58-00E 10/17/01 1949. The last case of
   naturally acquired smallpox in the world occurred in October 1977
   (Somalia) after an intensive 10-year global smallpox eradication
   campaign directed by the World Health Organization (WHO). Global
   eradication of smallpox was officially certified by WHO in 1979 and in
   1980 the World Health Assembly recommended that countries cease
   vaccination. A WHO expert committee then recommended that all
   laboratories destroy their stocks of variola virus or transfer them to
   1 of 2 reference laboratories, (1) the Institute of Virus Preparations
   in Moscow, Russia, (later transferred to the State Research Center of
   Virology and Biotechnology, Koltsovo, Novosibirsk Region, Russian
   Federation) or (2) the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)
   in Atlanta, Georgia. All countries self-reported compliance.19 These
   reports of compliance with WHO's request for destruction of all
   smallpox virus stocks have recently been cast into serious doubt. In
   1972 the Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention (BWC) was organized to
   halt all research, production, and use of such weapons, including the
   destruction of existing stocks. The BWC was signed and eventually
   ratified by more than 140 nations, including the United States, the
   former Soviet Union, and Iraq. However, the signing of the BWC was seen
   by the former Soviet Union as an opportunity to gain an advantage over
   cold war adversaries and it launched a massive clandestine expansion of
   its bioweapons program.12 The global eradication of smallpox disease
   and the worldwide cessation of vaccination in 1980 gave the former
   Soviet Union another opportunity to be exploited by developing smallpox
   virus stocks in large amounts. This was accomplished by 1989 with
   weaponized smallpox virus mounted on intercontinental ballistic
   missiles targeted on major U.S. cities and in bombs for strategic
   use.12,19 With the collapse of the Soviet Union, the bioweapons program
   was ostensibly discontinued. The Russian civilian laboratory in
   Novosibirsk, now named Vector, that is a WHO-sanctioned repository of
   smallpox virus, continues to work with smallpox, Marburg, and other
   hemorrhagic fever viruses in recombinant research studies.12 As with
   other former BW laboratories in Russia, it is experiencing financial
   difficulties, and substantial numbers of scientists have departed,
   looking for employment outside of Russia. Where they have gone is not
   reported but it is known that Libya, Iran, Syria, Iraq, Israel, and
   North Korea actively recruit such expertise. Not only could these
   bioscientists supply their talents to these countries but even carry
   with them small, easily concealed, vials of freeze-dried smallpox virus
   and/or other potential BW agents. In addition to Russia, U.S.
   intelligence sources are reported to have identified several other
   countries or groups that are suspected of having clandestine stocks of
   smallpox virus or are trying to acquire or steal the virus. The list is
   classified but is said to include China, India, Pakistan, Israel, North
   Korea, Iraq, Iran, Cuba, and Serbia.12 Other candidates include the
   terrorist organization of Osana bin Laden and, possibly, the Aum
   Shinrikyo sect of Japan, which is also active in Russia. The Aum
   Shinrikyo group has 23 R-58-00E 10/17/01 Ph.D. biologists among its
   members and in the past crudely released biological agents (in addition
   to toxic sarin gas) in the Tokyo area, including botulinum toxin and
   anthrax spores without apparent effects.5 In 1993 the cult sent a team
   of 16 doctors and nurses to Zaire to learn about Ebola hemorrhagic
   fever virus and, if possible, bring back samples of the virus to their
   laboratory. Aside from the delivery of BW agents by military weapons
   such as ballistic missiles or artillery projectiles, a major limiting
   factor faced by rogue states and "independent" terrorist groups seeking
   to employ deadly biological agents (e.g., smallpox virus) has been a
   practical, effective and clandestine method of delivering aerosols
   which can persist invisibly suspended in air to readily expose the
   respiratory tract of the human target population. In the past,
   terrorists would have been largely limited to macro devices for
   delivering aerosols, such as by light planes or helicopters equipped
   with fogging devices (crop dusters), or small pickup truck-mounted
   "foggers" used in agriculture. Of greater concern now is one of the
   technological advances in the silicon chip industry, a diminutive
   device which can produce 1-3 micron size aerosols. Particles of this
   size are ideal for delivering smallpox, anthrax, or other airborne
   agents to the human respiratory tract. Such devices composed of an
   aerosolizer, battery and motor, together with small tubes containing 1
   to 3 million doses of bioagents like smallpox virus can fit into a case
   no larger than a household thermostat. These diminutive and concealable
   devices could fill a large metropolitan skyscraper, airport terminal or
   indoor arena with a highly infectious aerosol. Access to information on
   this technology is easily accessed through the Internet.12,20 Consider
   the following scenario in which ten thousand basketball fans gather at
   the ARCO sports arena to watch a playoff basketball game between the
   Sacramento Kings and the Los Angeles Lakers. A terrorist group
   clandestinely activates an aerosolizing device which silently and
   invisibly disperses smallpox virus throughout the arena, exposing the
   unsuspecting fans. Assuming a very conservative attack rate of only one
   percent in this population with virtually no immunity to smallpox, 100
   of the 10,000 persons who attended the game would come down with
   smallpox over the next 10 to 17 days (smallpox vaccination in the U.S.
   was discontinued in 1972, and more than 48% of the U.S. population is
   less than 28 years of age). Most would have onset of illness in the
   Sacramento Valley and the Los Angeles Metropolitan area, a few in other
   states. It would take probably a week before local healthcare workers
   would realize they are dealing with smallpox. Given the conservative
   assumption that each of the 100 patients would infect 10 others
   (family, friends, paramedics, emergency room (ER) staff, hospital staff
   and patients, etc), the second generation of cases would number up to
   1000 cases within a month of the bioterrorism event at the basketball
   arena. Health officials urgently request smallpox vaccine from CDC. The
   potency of the 7 million doses of smallpox vaccine in CDC's emergency
   reserve is open to question, as it is over 20 years old. A few vials of
   the 24 R-58-00E 10/17/01 vaccine have been used to protect the small
   number of laboratory researchers working with smallpox and other
   orthopox viruses, but no systematic potency testing of the vaccine has
   been done. The vaccine would have to be mobilized from storage in
   Pennsylvania and shipped to points of need. Vaccinators would have to
   be trained in the multiple puncture vaccination technique. There would
   be public panic with demands for vaccination by hundreds of thousands
   of persons who would have had no possible exposure to smallpox. By the
   third and fourth generations of the epidemic there would be more than
   10,000 cases, with up to 3,000 deaths now spread widely over the U.S.
   Local hospitals would find it difficult to cope for lack of protected
   healthy staff and isolation facilities for patients. Given the mobility
   of California's population, spread would likely have also occurred via
   jet travelers to Europe, Asia, Latin America and Africa. Ever-expanding
   circles of smallpox spread would continue from each point of
   introduction. The foregoing scenario is a realistic one, the likes of
   which must be anticipated, given the continuing acts of terrorism
   against the U.S. Before the global eradication of smallpox, even when
   there were introductions into nonendemic, smallpox-free countries with
   relatively well-vaccinated populations, the havoc wreaked by smallpox
   importations was often overwhelming. Such was the case in the last
   outbreak of smallpox in Europe which occurred in 1972 in the former
   Yugoslavia. The index case occurred in a man returning from a
   pilgrimage to Mecca via Baghdad where smallpox was occurring (but not
   reported to WHO). One day after the pilgrim had returned to his village
   in the Kosovo region he experienced a flu-like illness with fever. He
   denied having a rash (when examined by a WHO physician a month later no
   evidence of a rash was found). He had received a smallpox vaccination a
   month before leaving on his pilgrimage. One of his contacts, a
   30-year-old teacher, developed hemorrhagic smallpox. His illness was
   initially and persistently misdiagnosed as a severe skin reaction to
   penicillin in 4 different clinics through which he passed before dying
   at a university hospital in Belgrade. Only when the man's brother came
   down with smallpox was it realized that the 30-year-old teacher had
   also died of smallpox. In just 2 months from the onset of
   vaccine-modified mild smallpox illness in the pilgrim index case (later
   proved by laboratory tests), 8 cities in Yugoslavia had been affected
   with 176 cases and 35 deaths. The 30-year-old teacher with hemorrhagic
   smallpox, alone, had infected 38 persons, 8 of whom had died. As panic
   grew throughout the country in March, when 114 cases had onset within a
   2-week period, a massive nationwide vaccination campaign was organized
   in which 18 million of Yugoslavia's 20.8 million population were
   vaccinated.12,21 An introduction of smallpox into the U.S. today would
   spread much more rapidly and widely than in the Yugoslavia of 1972, as
   over 80% (216,000,000) of the U.S. population has no immunity to
   smallpox infection.19 The remaining 20% has little more. If there were
   an outbreak of smallpox today, where would sufficient vaccine be found
   to vaccinate 25 R-58-00E 10/17/01 persons at risk and persons in panic?
   The CDC-maintained smallpox vaccine reserve of 7 million doses for the
   entire U.S. population of more than 270 million persons has been in
   storage for over 20 years. There have been no systematic tests of its
   potency in humans during this period. The adequacy of the vaccine for
   protecting large numbers of at-risk persons in a crisis situation
   remains speculative. Currently, a small-scale potency test of the
   vaccine is underway at the St. Louis University School of Medicine in a
   group of about 60 persons. With no U.S. vaccine producer now licensed
   to manufacture the vaccine, and any possible new vaccine supply at
   least 3 years away, we would have to look overseas and hope for the
   best.19 In addition, there are no available antiviral drugs that are
   proved effective and safe in treating or preventing smallpox and none
   on the near horizon.19 This regulation makes smallpox once again a
   reportable disease in California (the other 49 states have already
   made, or are in the process of making, smallpox reportable too). The
   regulation requires that cases or suspected cases be immediately
   reportable by telephone to the local health officer. This reporting
   requirement for smallpox is the key element for an effective response
   to counter bioterrorist introduced smallpox in our near totally
   susceptible U.S. population. Before effective public health action can
   be taken to limit an introduction of smallpox, cases must be recognized
   by frontline health care providers (e.g., ER physicians and family
   practitioners) and reported to the local health officer. At that point
   public health specialists will take actions to confirm the diagnosis of
   smallpox, isolate cases, vaccinate and quarantine contacts, and conduct
   intensive active surveillance for new or missed cases. The only
   alternative to this regulation is to maintain the status quo, which
   would delay the recognition of a bioterrorist smallpox introduction in
   California by public health authorities. This would likely result in
   multiple generations of widely disseminated smallpox cases throughout
   the U.S. with hundreds to thousands of smallpox deaths. Pandemic spread
   would likely occur to all continents. No other alternatives to adoption
   of this regulation are tenable. 2. Varicella (Deaths Only) Varicella
   (chickenpox) is typically an acute, generalized viral disease with
   sudden onset of fever, mild constitutional symptoms, and a skin
   eruption that is initially maculopapular, then vesicular, ending in
   granular scabs. Varicella is caused by the varicella-zoster virus
   (VZV), a member of the Herpesvirus group. The virus remains latent in
   dorsal root ganglia and may reactivate later in life to cause herpes
   zoster (shingles). Transmission is from person-to-person by direct
   contact, droplet or airborne spread of vesicle fluid or secretions of
   the respiratory tract of chickenpox cases or of vesicle fluid of
   patients with herpes zoster. 26 R-58-00E 10/17/01 Over 85% of the 4
   million annual cases in the U.S. occur among children less than 15
   years of age, with the highest incidence in 1- to 4-year-olds. Adults
   20 years and older account for only 7% of cases but have much higher
   rates of complications and death than children. In children, the
   case-fatality rate is very low (1/100,000 in children ages 1-14 years,
   but in the 5% of cases that occur in persons over the age of 30 years,
   the case- fatality rate is 25 times higher (25/100,000).22 Death
   certificate records in California show that from 1989 to 1998 there was
   an average of 14 varicella-related deaths reported per year and that
   60% were over 18 years of age. Types of complications reported included
   varicella encephalitis and pneumonia, secondary bacterial infections,
   and severe hemorrhagic manifestations (malignant chickenpox with
   purpura, purpura fulminans).23 Before smallpox in humans was
   eradicated, smallpox and varicella (chickenpox) were sometimes
   diagnostically confused, especially in smallpox-nonendemic countries
   where physicians had little to no experience with smallpox. Smallpox
   patients with hemorrhagic skin manifestations might be misdiagnosed as
   a hemorrhagic form of varicella, meningococcemia or acute leukemia,
   always with disastrous consequences.24 Conversely, smallpox in
   previously vaccinated persons with partial immunity resulting in
   modified constitutional symptoms, and sparse superficial rash might be
   misdiagnosed as varicella when, in fact, the disease was smallpox.25
   While the first scenario could very well happen in present-day United
   States, the latter situation of vaccine-modified smallpox masquerading
   as chickenpox is less likely because so few persons in the U.S. have
   any immunity to smallpox. This regulation makes Varicella (Deaths Only)
   a reportable disease in California. Reports of cases or suspected cases
   are to be made immediately by telephone to the local health officer.
   This reporting requirement for deaths due to varicella supplements the
   proposed reporting requirement for smallpox by plugging a gap for
   missed diagnoses of true smallpox in patients misdiagnosed as fatal
   varicella (chickenpox). This will enhance the detection of possible
   smallpox cases resulting from bioterrorism. There also would be 2
   secondary benefits from making varicella deaths reportable. The first
   would be the ability to indirectly measure the effectiveness of
   California's new varicella vaccination program begun in the latter half
   of the 1990s. A sustained decline in varicella deaths would infer a
   decline in cases. The CDC and the Council of State and Territorial
   Epidemiologists have recommended that surveillance for varicella deaths
   in all states is a key first step in this process.26 The second benefit
   would be an indirect way to assess the incidence of severe
   varicella-related necrotizing fasciitis, a secondary bacterial
   infection of varicella skin rash lesions that is usually fatal if not
   treated early. In the 1990s a large proportion of reported cases of
   necrotizing fasciitis was secondary to superinfection 27 R-58-00E
   10/17/01 of varicella-zoster virus skin lesions. It is important to
   detect such events promptly in order to alert the medical community for
   prompt and aggressive treatment of potentially salvageable patients
   with varicella-related necrotizing fasciitis. The only alternative to
   this regulation is to maintain the status quo which would delay the
   recognition of a bioterrorist introduction of smallpox by public health
   officials should the early cases in an outbreak be misdiagnosed as
   fatal varicella by health care providers unfamiliar with smallpox. With
   this regulation in place public health epidemiologists could
   immediately investigate any case of fatal varicella to rule out
   possibility of smallpox. DISEASES TO BE MODIFIED IN §2500(j) 1.
   Botulism: (Infant, Foodborne, Wound) Botulism is a disease
   characterized by symmetrical descending weakness and/or flaccid
   paralysis caused by a neurotoxin elaborated by the bacterium
   Clostridium botulinum. The 3 classic forms of the disease are infant
   (intestinal) botulism, foodborne botulism, and wound botulism. All 3
   forms are currently reportable. This regulation adds a fourth reporting
   category, "Botulism, Other." Although there have been no intentional
   botulism poisonings reported anywhere in the world, it is known that
   during the Persian Gulf War Iraq had loaded 11,200 liters of weaponized
   botulism toxin into specially designed SCUD missile warheads. Also, the
   Aum Shinrikyo cult in Japan produced botulism toxin before its 1995
   terrorist attack with sarin gas on the Tokyo subway.27 It is also
   possible that other terrorist groups have produced botulism toxin, as
   instructions for its preparation have been available on the Internet. A
   large-scale terrorist attack would likely release botulism toxin by
   aircraft spraying or an atmospheric explosion rather than by the
   foodborne or waterborne routes as the latter 2 routes would be less
   effective vehicles for large scale transmission. Foodborne and
   waterborne routes, however, remain a significant threat for smaller
   scale attacks. With this regulation, botulism cases exposed by
   aerosolized toxin via the respiratory route would be reported as
   "Botulism, Other" because they would have none of the classical
   recognized routes of botulism exposure. The "Botulism, Other" category
   would also serve another reporting function, as there are presently
   several cases reported each year in which no evidence for foodborne,
   wound, or infant botulism is elucidated. Such cases, while possibly due
   to an unrecognized food source, would be classified more accurately as
   "other" rather than "foodborne," as 28 R-58-00E 10/17/01 they are now
   classified. The alternative is to maintain the status quo, but this
   would result in the forced misclassification of those cases. Clearly, a
   reporting category of "Botulism, Other" is needed. 2. Brucellosis:
   Brucellosis is a debilitating zoonotic systemic bacterial disease
   characterized by fever, headache, weakness, profuse sweating, chills,
   joint pain, depression, weight loss, and generalized aching lasting
   months to a year or more if inadequately treated. Complications include
   bone and joint localizations, genitourinary infections, hepatitis, and
   endocarditis, which may be fatal. The case-fatality ratio is to 2 to 5%
   in untreated cases. The primary reservoirs of infection are cattle,
   swine, goats and sheep, although the infection may occur in dogs,
   bison, elk, caribou and deer. Transmission in nature occurs by contact
   with tissues, blood, urine, vaginal discharges, aborted fetuses, and by
   ingestion of raw milk and unpasteurized dairy products (e.g., cheeses)
   from infected animals. Airborne infection occurs in pens and stables,
   and of humans in laboratories and abattoirs. There is no evidence of
   communicability from person to person. While smallpox and anthrax are
   considered to have the greater bioterroristic potential for mass
   casualties, death and civil disruption, brucellosis is in the next tier
   of biological agents that could be employed effectively by
   bioterrorists. The U.S. weaponized Brucella suis in the 1940s and 1950s
   but stopped offensive work on the agent in the 1960s. However, other
   countries have, or are suspected to have, also weaponized brucellae.
   The organism could be delivered as a slurry in bomblets or as a dry
   aerosol by the airborne route.18 Brucellosis has been on the list of
   reportable diseases in California since at least 1945. Presently the
   urgency of reporting brucellosis is within seven (7) calendar days of
   the time of diagnosis. Reports can be made by a mailed written report,
   a telephoned report, or by an electronically transmitted report (e.g.,
   FAX). This regulation makes brucellosis notifications an emergency and
   reportable immediately by telephone. Making brucellosis immediately
   reportable will speed notifications to the local health officer by up
   to 7 days. Any sudden increase in cases reported over a short period in
   persons who didn't consume products made from raw milk or who didn't
   work in abattoirs or in microbiologic laboratories would immediately
   raise a red flag for considering a possible bioterrorist attack. Public
   health officials could then get the word out to physicians to consider
   brucellosis in patients with compatible symptoms, do proper diagnostic
   studies, and provide guidelines for appropriate presumptive antibiotic
   treatment. 29 R-58-00E 10/17/01 This regulation does not impose an
   undue burden on health care providers. Over the 3 years 1997-1999, an
   average of only 20 cases per year have been reported in California.
   Making brucellosis reportable immediately does not increase the number
   of cases to be reported but only advances the timetable for reporting.
   In fact, one can argue that the most logical and efficient time to make
   a report of any disease is right at the time the diagnosis or suspected
   diagnosis is made. As time advances towards 7 days, the "forgetfulness
   factor" takes hold, making the likelihood of any report being made
   increasingly remote. The only alternative to not making brucellosis
   immediately reportable is to maintain the status quo. This would serve
   no purpose other than to delay recognition of a possible bioterrorist
   introduction of brucellosis, resulting in delays in accurate diagnosis
   and initiation of appropriate antibiotic treatment of cases. Needless
   suffering and deaths would result. 3. Tularemia: Tularemia (also known
   as rabbit fever and deer fly fever) is a bacterial zoonotic disease
   caused by Francisella tularensis, which humans acquire under natural
   conditions through inoculation of skin or mucous membranes with blood
   or tissue fluids of infected animals (rabbits, hares, muskrats,
   beavers, etc.) or bites of infected ticks, deerflies or mosquitoes.
   Although less common, inhaling contaminated dusts or ingesting
   contaminated foods or water may also cause disease. Respiratory
   exposure by aerosols causes severe typhoidal tularemia, which often is
   accompanied by pneumonia and septicemia. The case-fatality ratio of
   untreated typhoidal disease is approximately 35%. Tularemia is not
   directly transmitted from person to person.18 Like brucellosis,
   tularemia is considered a second-tier bioweapon behind smallpox and
   anthrax. Nevertheless, it is considered a significant bioterrorism
   threat, especially when delivered as an aerosol. The U.S. successfully
   bioweaponized the tularemia organism in the 1950s and 1960s before the
   U.S. offensive BW program was terminated, and it is believed that other
   countries have also weaponized this agent for delivery by aerosol.18
   Tularemia has been reportable in California within 7 days of diagnosis
   since at least 1945. Reports can be made by mail, telephone, or
   electronic facsimile transmission. Over the 3 years 1997 to 1999, an
   average of 3 cases per year was reported to the Department of Health
   Services. 30 R-58-00E 10/17/01 This regulation makes tularemia
   immediately reportable by telephone to the local health officer. This
   change would allow for detection of a time-related cluster of cases
   secondary to a bioterrorist release of this agent up to 7 days sooner
   than under the present reporting requirement. Detection of a
   time-cluster of cases with none of the established exposure risks for
   acquiring tularemia would raise a "red flag" to epidemiologists that a
   possible bioterrorist aerosol release of the tularemia bacillus had
   occurred. Physicians could then be alerted so that patients with signs
   and symptoms of the typhoidal pattern of the disease could be more
   promptly diagnosed and treated with appropriate life-saving
   antibiotics. The time gained with immediate reporting would also enable
   and speed any criminal investigation of the event. In the absence of a
   bioterrorist introduction of tularemia, no undue burden would be
   imposed on health care providers by the immediate reporting
   requirements, as only a few cases are reported each year. The only
   alternative to not making tularemia immediately reportable is to
   maintain the status quo, but that would only delay recognition of a
   possible bioterrorist release of tularemia, its accurate diagnosis, and
   the appropriate antibiotic treatment of victims. Needless suffering and
   deaths would result. 4. Occurrence of Any Unusual Disease: "Occurrence
   of Any Unusual Disease" was revised and translocated from CCR §2502 to
   CCR §2500(j) in 1996 (Register 96, No. 5). The intent of the regulation
   was to capture reports about possibly significant diseases that are
   rare, emerging, or apparently new that might be caused by a
   transmissible agent or toxin. The reporting urgency status was set at
   within 7 days of diagnosis by mail, telephone, or electronic
   transmission (FAX). There is a strong likelihood that the rapid
   advances in biotechnology will be utilized by bioterrorists to create
   genetically engineered agents that are more lethal and easier to
   weaponize.28 Recently at the Russian Federation Center for Applied
   Microbiology at Oblensk, where weaponized anthrax was formerly
   produced, a group published a paper in the British journal Vaccine
   describing a genetically altered strain of anthrax that is resistant to
   the antibodies produced by standard anthrax vaccine.10,29 A weaponized
   form of this strain could render the standard anthrax vaccine useless.
   Moreover, further recombinant genetic research on anthrax could create
   a strain resistant to the antibiotics used to treat anthrax. Such a
   weaponized strain, resistant to both vaccine and antibiotics, would be
   devastating. Genetic engineering of other bacteria or viruses could
   also create deadly pathogens with unusual clinical presentations for
   which no diagnostic tests existed. These would truly be "Unusual
   Diseases" that would need immediate reporting. 31 R-58-00E 10/17/01
   This regulation makes the reporting rubric, "occurrence of any unusual
   disease," immediately reportable by telephone to the local health
   officer. Prompt identification of a new pathogen, or an established one
   that has been genetically modified to enhance its disease-causing
   properties, is essential for its rapid characterization and eventual
   control. The only alternative to this proposed regulation is
   maintenance of the status quo, which would hamper and delay disease
   investigators in their efforts to cope with a newly introduced and
   unusual disease of uncertain cause. In §2500, changes without
   regulatory effect were made to update and/or correct the authority and
   reference notes. 17 CCR 2501. Investigation of a Reported Case, Unusual
   Disease, or Outbreak of Disease. No changes are made to this section.
   17 CCR 2502. Reports by Local Health Officer to State Department of
   Health Services. 17 CCR 2502(a). Summary Reports. No changes are made
   to this section. 17 CCR 2502(b). Individual Case and Outbreak Reports.
   Pursuant to Health and Safety Code §100180, §100275, §100325, §100330
   and §120140, this regulation makes specific to local health authorities
   those reportable diseases listed in §2500 that require an individual
   case report to be submitted to the Department for epidemiological
   analysis. Such information is necessary for the Department to
   effectively monitor disease trends and implement disease control
   actions in response to outbreaks. This regulation adds smallpox, viral
   hemorrhagic fevers, and deaths due to varicella (chickenpox) to the
   list of diseases that local health officers are required to report as
   individual case reports. Smallpox and viral hemorrhagic fevers are
   added to this section because CDC considers them the most likely and
   dangerous agents that could be employed by bioterrorists. Varicella
   deaths are added because deaths due to the hemorrhagic forms of
   smallpox may be easily misdiagnosed as deaths from severe 32 R-58-00E
   10/17/01 and/or hemorrhagic chickenpox (varicella) by U.S. physicians
   as virtually no U.S. physicians have ever seen a case of ordinary
   smallpox, let alone the rarer hemorrhagic forms. Smallpox, viral
   hemorrhagic fevers, and varicella deaths join the potential
   bioterrorist agents already listed in this section (anthrax, botulism,
   brucellosis, plague, and tularemia). A grammatical error has been
   corrected per Rule 100 in the sentence, "The Department or CDC have has
   prepared forms that may be used for many of the diseases requiring
   individual case reports." The only alternative to these additions is to
   maintain the status quo, which would hinder and delay the Department
   and local health authorities in detecting and controlling an outbreak
   of smallpox or viral hemorrhagic fever perpetrated by bioterrorists. 17
   CCR 2502(c). Immediate Reports This section defines for local health
   officers those communicable diseases that the Department has designated
   as particular public health emergencies and requires local health
   officers to make immediate telephonic notification to the Director of
   all such cases and suspect cases. This regulation adds brucellosis,
   smallpox (variola), tularemia, varicella deaths, viral hemorrhagic
   fevers, occurrence of any unusual disease, and outbreaks of any disease
   to the existing list of diseases in this section that local health
   officers must report immediately by telephone to the Director. These 7
   diseases or conditions join anthrax, botulism, and plague, the other 3
   high-risk bioterrorism threats, previously listed in §2502(c) because
   of their longstanding public health importance. Two non-substantive
   changes are made to the regulation to alphabetize the listing of the
   diseases. Dengue is moved from its former position after "diphtheria"
   to its new location following "cholera." Rabies maintains its position
   after "plague" but is now noted as "rabies (human only)." This
   regulation is necessary to ensure that the Department is notified at
   the earliest possible moment of the occurrence of these diseases in
   order to assist local health offic
