http://www.dtsc.ca.gov/HazardousWaste/index.html


      Welcome to California California Home Wednesday, January 30, 2002


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                   Home
                   Toxics Questions?
                   Public Notices
                   Calendar
                   Laws, Regulations, and Policies
                   Site Cleanup
                   Managing Hazardous Waste
                   Pollution Prevention
                   Science and Technology
                   News Releases
                   Publications and Forms
                   Employment
                   How to Contact DTSC
                   Department of Toxic Substances Control



   Department of Toxic Substances Control




        __________ search
   ( )  My CA (*)   This Site
           Search Tips


   DTSC: Managing Hazardous Waste

   Managing Hazardous Waste

             CLICK HERE FOR UPDATES ON THE 2001 BIENNIAL REPORT

   Click on one of the links below to go directly to a specific topic:
   Hazardous Waste Facilities
   Hazardous Waste Recyclers
   Compliance and Enforcement
   Hazardous Waste Transporters
   Hazardous Waste Generators
   Certified Unified Program Agencies (CUPA)
   Forms and Reports


    Hazardous Waste Facilities

     * Hazardous Waste Management Project Documents  DTSC posts on its web
       site key documents related to entities that manage hazardous waste.
       Click on the link for web-available information on entities that
       handle hazardous waste (generators; transporters; facilities
       permitted with Resource Conservation and Recovery (RCRA) permits or
       standardized permits; and other authorizations and notifications).
       If you can't find the facility or other entity that you're looking
       for, call our Public and Business Liaisons at 800-728-6942, or
       800-72TOXIC. They can direct you to a Public Participation
       Specialist or suggest where you might find more information.
     * Fact Sheet: The Public's Role During the Permit Process
     * Fact Sheet: Hazardous Waste Facility Permits
     * Part A Application - (on the U.S. EPA web site)
     * Part B Application
     * Permit Applicant Handbook
     * Permit Completion Checklist
     * California Commercial Offsite Hazardous Waste Management Facilities
       permitted by DTSC (31KB, PDF)
     * RCRA Facilities
     * Standardized Permit Facilities

     * Standardized Permit Fact Sheet

     Tiered Permit Facilities
     * On-Site Tiered Permitting Flow Chart

     Facilities Operating Under Variance Back to Top of Page


    Hazardous Waste Recyclers

     * Recycling Interpretive Letters


    Compliance and Enforcement

   The Hazardous Waste Management Program, Statewide Compliance Division
   (SCD) monitors hazardous waste transfer, storage, treatment and
   disposal facilities for illegal activity; including electronic manifest
   surveillance and monitoring of registered hazardous waste haulers; and
   takes appropriate enforcement action against hazardous waste handlers
   that violate hazardous waste requirements found through routine
   inspections, complaint investigations, and focused enforcement
   initiatives. SCD also provides compliance assistance. More about
   Compliance and Enforcement...
     * Enforcement Cases


    Hazardous Waste Transporters

   To operate in California, all hazardous waste transporters must be
   registered with the Department of Toxic Substances Control and meet
   operating and manifesting requirements. DTSC's Hazardous Waste
   Management Program has available a searchable registered transporter
   database, fact sheets, and information on the new Consolidated
   Manifesting procedure that takes effect on January 1, 2002. More about
   Hazardous Waste Transporters...
   Back to Top of Page


    Hazardous Waste Generators

     * Generator Guidance
     * Guidance for Jewelry Manufacturers  Click on the link for fact
       sheets providing general information about managing hazardous
       wastes in the jewelry manufacturing industry, as well as
       information about specific waste streams typically generated by
       those who manufacture jewelry. These fact sheets are currently
       available in English. Spanish, Armenian, and Vietnamese versions
       will be available soon.


    Certified Unified Program Agencies (CUPA)

   The State Regulatory Programs Division (SRPD) oversees the technical
   implementation of the state's Unified Program--a consolidation of six
   environmental programs at the local level, and conducts triennial
   reviews of Unified Program agencies to ensure their programs are
   consistent statewide, conform to standards, and deliver quality
   environmental protection at the local level.
   More about CUPA ...


    Forms and Reports

   Includes Biennial and Annual Facility Reports information.

   Link to California's Home Page Back to Top of Page Back to DTSC's Home
                 Page Link to Governor Gray Davis' Home Page

   Cal/EPA | Air Resources Board | California Integrated Waste Management
                 Board | Department of Pesticide Regulation
       Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment | State Water
                           Resources Control Board
            Conditions of Use | Privacy Policy | E-mail Webmaster
             © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor.
     TM/2001 Hollywood Chamber of Commerce licensed by Global Icons, Los
                   Angeles, CA 90034. All Rights Reserved.
