http://www.kids.gov/k_homework.htm




                               [smlsearch.gif]
                                   Search
    "" Logo image linking to FirstGov for Kids. Logo image linking to the
                     Federal Consumer Information Center
   Arts - Careers - Computers - Environment - Fighting Crime - Fun Stuff -
         Geography - Global Village - Government - Health - History
    Homework - Money - Music - Plants and Animals - Recreation - Safety -
                  Science and Math - Space - Transportation
                               Separator image
     Image of girl at a desk doing homework Homework Help Confused by a
     computer question? Stumped on a science question? Heartburn over a
      history question? Here are some great links to help you with your
             homework - this may even help you finish it faster!
                               Separator image

                              Government Sites
               (these sites are not maintained by kids.gov *)
   Item Afterschool.gov Kid's Page - Your connection to federal resources
        that support children and youth during out-of-school hours.
    Item American Memory - Visit the digital library and learn all about
                       American history and culture.
    Item Ask Joan of Art - Do you have a question about American art and
    don't know how to find the answer? Art information specialists at the
    Smithsonian American Art Museum, using print and electronic reference
                    sources, will help you get started.
       Item Ben's Guide to US Government for Kids - This site provides
       learning tools for K-12 students, parents, and teachers. These
       resources will teach how our government works, and much more.
     Item Create a Graph - Try your hand at creating some and see if it
   helps explain what you are trying to show. Try using homework problems,
   things you have a special interest in, or just make up some numbers of
                                 your own!
      Item Encyclopedia Smithsonian - Encyclopedia Smithsonian features
    answers to frequently asked questions about the Smithsonian and links
         to Smithsonian resources on subjects from Art to Zoology.
   Item Energy Quest - Megawatts of info and fun await! Read a story, try
   a science project, learn about renewable resources, play with puzzles,
       meet super scientists, and lots more on this neat site from the
                       California Energy Commission.
   Item Fact Finder Kids' Corner - Learn about the U.S. Census, get facts
            about your state, and have fun with quiz questions.
   Item Federal Resources for Educational Excellence - The President asked
    Federal agencies to determine what "resources you can make available
   that would enrich the Internet as a tool for teaching and learning. In
   response, more than 30 Federal agencies formed a working group to make
    hundreds of federally supported education resources available at this
                                 web site.
     Item Law-4-Kids - Here is an introduction to questions you may have
                          about our legal system.
      Item NCES Students' Classroom - As part of the U.S. Department of
   Education, the National Center for Education Statistics (NCES) has made
        a page for students that includes CRUNCH, an online 'zine, a
         multi-media playhouse, and a "Find Your Library" section.
     Item Today In History - The Library of Congress began a day-by-day
    listing of historical events. Search the archive for the day of your
                                  choice.

                             Organization Sites
               (these sites are not maintained by kids.gov *)
      Item Figure This! - Have you been alive for one million minutes?
   Investigate math challenges like this which include hints, answers, and
        ways to test them out. Designed for kids and their families.
   Item Global Schoolhouse - This great site has fun sections like Project
     Registy (more than 700 online collaborative projects, organized by
   topic, grade, and project date), GeoGame (helping students learn about
    our world, its maps, and its people), and Field Trips (students share
        their discoveries during real-life field trips, while distant
                         classrooms follow along).
     Item Internet Public Library - Youth Division - The Internet Public
    Library (IPL), is a public service organization and learning/teaching
    environment at the University of Michigan School of Information. This
   reference site was created specifically for kids and contains hundreds
    of links to fascinating information grouped by subject area. A great
                               place to surf.
   Item MathMastery - Even if you're already on your summer vacation, this
     fun math site will make you want to keep your brain sharp! Try the
               CyberChallenges or the Daily Brains problems.
    Item PBS Kids - Did you know? - An online space for kids to interact,
    learn and play with their favorite PBS characters! PBS Kids producers
     works closely with educational advisors when developing content for
                                 this site.
        Item Scholastic - This site has a number of games, books, fun
   activities, lesson plans and classroom activities, resources and more.
    Item Stately Knowledge - Need to know the capital of Alabama? Want to
      know which hockey teams are in California? How about the size of
   Montana? These web pages will help you find out the basic facts of any
               state in the Union, including Washington, D.C.
     Item The WHY Files - The Why Files cover issues of science, health,
    environment and technology from a unique perspective. Using news and
      current events as a springboard to explore science and the larger
    issues it raises, we hope to show science as a human enterprise and a
                        way of looking at the world.

                               Education Sites
               (these sites are not maintained by kids.gov *)
   Item Ask Dr. Math (Elementary Grades) - Ask Dr. Math is a question and
      answer service for math students and their teachers. A searchable
      archive is available by level and topic, as well as summaries of
                        Frequently Asked Questions.
    Item Kids Click! Web Search for Kids from Librarians - KidsClick! was
   created by a group of librarians at the Ramapo Catskill Library System,
      as a logical step in addressing concerns about the role of public
   libraries in guiding their young users to valuable and age appropriate
                                 web sites.
   Item Virtual Reference Desk - The Virtual Reference Desk (VRD) can help
       you find information and answers to your questions about school
          subjects, fascinating facts, research topics, and more!

                              Commercial Sites
               (these sites are not maintained by kids.gov *)
    Item A+ Math - Come to this neat site to have fun with math! You can
    make your own flashcards, play Matho and Hidden Picture in the games
     room, use the homework helper tools to check solutions, or even get
                      worksheets for offline practice.
   Item AAA Math - Choose your grade level and check out the basic skills,
       activities, and challenge games for K-8. Math concepts are also
                            explained in detail.
   Item Air Force Crossroads for Teens and Youth - This Air Force website
   has tons to offer both kids and teenagers alike. From sports to arts to
   video games, you will find hours worth of information and entertainment
                  that will keep you coming back for more.
     Item Ask Jeeves for Kids - Ask Jeeves for Kids allows you to ask a
    question in plain English and, after interacting with you to confirm
     the question, Ask Jeeves for Kids takes you to one and only one web
                      site that answers your question.
   Item BJ Pinchbeck's Homework Helper - History - Site that contain many
         links to General, American, and Ancient History websites.
    Item Brainpop.com - BrainPOP's unique, award-winning Health, Science
     and Technology (HS&T) content is based on original, animated movies
       created to explain the human body and the world around us in an
                  engaging, interactive journey for kids.
   Item Bunsen Bob's Science Hunt - Includes tons of science fair project
   ideas, tips for creating successful projects, information on how judges
   think and what they want to know, advice for your parents, and so much
                                   more!
    Item Coolmath - Explore this amusement park of mathematics. Have fun
   with interactive activities and games for kids like Lemonade Stand and
       Arithmattack! There's even stuff for parents and teachers too.
   Item Discovery School - Information on a variety of topics presented in
                               a fun manner.
       Item Education Place - Kids Place - Free games, activities, and
     resources for students studying math, reading, social studies, and
                                  science.
       Item Education World - This site reviews and links to loads of
            informational sites on a variety of school subjects.
       Item Inventors Homework Helper - Look up a certain inventor or
                     invention by name or by timeframe.
   Item Kids Post - Read articles about current events and entertainment,
      get Brain Food for homework help, and have fun with games, polls,
           online discussions, and more from The Washington Post.
   Item Lissa Explains it All - Lissa Explains it All is colorful and fun
   approach to learning HTML especially for kids (and the young at heart).
    Item Lycos Homework Zone - This not only has information on different
   subjects like history and math, but it also has a Book Adventure, Mind
                         Games, and a Kids Library.
     Item Netstate.Com - This fun site has more than the symbols, flags,
      seals, emblems, and famous people of each state. Find interesting
    trivia, comparisons, and the 50 state designs for U.S. quarters too!
      Item Quia Mathematics - Here is a fun Website that can help K-12
        students practice math. There are tons of activities, such as
     multiplication, decimals, fractions, and trigonometry; you learn by
    using virtual flash cards (Java optional), word searches, games, and
                               mini quizzes.
     Item Science Fair Central - Get great ideas and tips for your next
                     science fair or homework project.
    Item StudyWeb - Huge site that contains links to all kinds of school
                                 subjects.
    Item StudyWeb - Links for Learning - This has everything divided into
     categories. The categories are sorted according to the approximate
           appropriate grade level, making it easy for everyone.
       Item Transportation Wonderland - Has a lot of stories and other
                  activities to help with reading skills.
      Item Whatis?com - The IT-Specific Encyclopedia - Whatis.comr is a
     knowledge exploration tool about information technology, especially
     about the Internet and computers. It contains over 2,000 individual
   encyclopedic definition/topics and a number of quick-reference pages.
   Item WordCentral.com - Fun dictionary site where you can look up words,
                 get a word of the day to learn, and more.
                               Separator image
    About this site - Sitemap - Contact Us - Kid's Privacy - Disclaimer -
                                 Link Policy
                               Separator image
