http://www.education.nasa.gov/events.html

   NASA

   Return to NASA Education Home

   Search

   Site Map

   Comments and Information

   NASA Privacy Statement

   NASA special programs and events
     * INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION WEEK (IEW)
       - November 12-16, 2001
       NASA Joins the U.S. Department of State and the U.S. Department of
       Education for the second annual celebration of International
       Education Week (IEW). During this week, schools are encouraged to
       highlight the role of education in preparing students for a global
       society.
       Perhaps the best example of international collaboration is the
       International Space Station (ISS). Beyond the engineering
       challenges of creating a space station, each crew has to address
       language and cultural barriers to work effectively as a team to
       complete their project successfully.
       The public is invited to participate in the international
       celebration by exploring the ISS special events, educational
       materials, and opportunities offered from a specially created NASA
       IEW 2001 website.
     * GLOBAL SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY WEEK (GSTW),
       - May 6-12, 2001
       In recognition of Global Science and Technology Week (GSTW), May
       6-12, NASA coordinated an electronic linkage campaign designed to
       provide the public with multiple opportunities and methods to
       explore specific NASA science ventures that have been in the news.
       A special web page was created from the NASA Home Page and contains
       a sampling of some of the electronic resources and web activities
       that were organized to emphasize the importance of math and science
       education and to take advantage of current newsmakers to highlight
       the many ways that NASA science and technology impacts the daily
       lives of all citizens.
       Join NASA in a week where "Science Has No Boundaries".

              NASA Education Program | NASA Home | NASA Centers
        NASA Strategic Enterprises | NASA Center Education Web Sites
