http://d3d.fsl.noaa.gov/symposium/jimhayes_paper.pdf

   J5.2 APPLYING D3D IN AN OPERATIONAL ENVIRONMENT John W. Cannon and
   James C. Hayes NOAA/National Weather Service Forecast Office Gray,
   Maine Joshua Watson NOAA/National Weather Service Eastern Region
   Headquarters Bohemia, New York 1. INTRODUCTION operational setting,
   access to the D2D data tree in AWIPS was necessary. It is important to
   note that D2D is not The Forecast System Laboratory (FSL) Display 3-
   required to run D3D. Dimensions workstation application (D3D) allows
   forecasters to view model data in a multi-dimensional Access to
   real-time data necessitated adding the D3D interactive display. D3D,
   based on the University of workstation to the AWIPS Local Area Network
   (LAN). Wisconsin's Vis5D software, supplements Advanced Other options,
   such as moving data to the workstation via Weather Interactive
   Processing System (AWIPS) 2-D the Local Data Acquisition and
   Dissemination computer display capabilities available to forecasters.
   Large (LDAD), were dismissed as too taxing on the AWIPS volumes of data
   can be rapidly assimilated with an LAN. After receiving permission from
   the AWIPS Security increased temporal and multi-dimensional
   understanding Office, the D3D workstation was added to the AWIPS of how
   meteorological processes interact. LAN. During Spring 2001, the NWS
   forecast office in Gray, ME 2.3 Training the Staff worked in
   cooperation with the NWS Eastern Region Headquarters and FSL as a D3D
   workstation test site. The Initially, the D3D workstation was located
   away from the goal of this project is to determine operational
   strengths forecast floor. This was done to facilitate staff training.
   and limitations of the workstation through input from the Training
   began with one-on-one sessions, performed by a hydrometeorological
   staff. forecaster who attended the WFO-Advanced RT99 exercise (Szoke et
   al. 2001) in November, 1999. During 2. INTRODUCING D3D INTO OPERATIONS
   the training session, each element of the software was reviewed in
   detail, and possible real-time applications were There were several
   aspects to consider introducing D3D discussed. into forecast
   operations. The hardware needed to be procured, access to a real-time
   data feed needed to be After the one-on-one training, each forecaster
   was asked obtained, and the staff needed to be trained, both in to
   complete a series of job sheets, each focusing on a software interface
   knobology and techniques application. specific aspect of the software.
   The job sheets, based on those used in the RT99 exercise, helped
   reinforce the 2.1 Obtaining the Hardware points brought out in the
   one-on-one training. As part of the test, the Scientific Services
   Division (SSD) Once the staff was trained on D3D, the workstation was
   of ERH obtained a PC for the forecast office in Gray on relocated to
   the operations area, where the staff began which to run the D3D
   workstation. The Dell® PC contains using the software in a real-time
   setting. dual Pentium III processors. While the D3D workstation
   software does not explicitly use two processors, the Linux 3.
   DETERMINING THE ROLE OF D3D IN OPERATIONS operating system will attempt
   to use the second processor, allowing D3D use utilize the first
   processor almost As is the case with any new software package or
   forecast exclusively, thereby increasing performance. technique, it is
   important to determine whether it adds to or detracts from the forecast
   process. In this case, it is Due to the significant amount of software
   rendering difficult to objectively determine the impact of the required
   by the D3D program, a 3D accelerated video card software. with 32 MB of
   RAM was also included. Thus, the workstation as delivered contains
   considerably more To subjectively assess the impact of D3D in
   operations, computing power than an typical AWIPS workstation.
   forecasters were asked to complete an end-of-shift questionnaire.
   Modeled after the questionnaires 2.2 Obtaining Access to Real-Time Data
   administered during the RT99 exercise, forecasters were asked about the
   relevance of each element of the D3D The D3D software, as delivered by
   FSL, was configured to software, and how it could be used if included
   in future display case study data. A case study was included in the
   AWIPS builds. In addition, due to the beta status of the original
   software package distribution. Since the test was software, questions
   concerning software performance intended to gauge the utility of the
   D3D workstation in an were included. The results of the questionnaires
   can then be used as input to the D3D developers at FSL. 4.2 Using
   Trajectories 4. USE OF D3D: EXAMPLES Use of trajectories in forecast
   operations has been limited to plotting single points on a
   two-dimensional surface. Perhaps the best way to demonstrate the
   utility of D3D is The third dimension was simulated by changing the
   values to present two examples where the capability of D3D, as of
   predetermined fields for each point. a more thorough diagnostic tool
   than D2D alone, is demonstrated. Forecast trajectories in D3D
   explicitly show the three- dimensional aspects of trajectories, and
   allow the 4.1 Using Isosurfaces forecaster to determine which fields to
   display. Examination of the 0000 UTC 03 October 2001 AVN The 0000 UTC
   27 September 2001 Eta model was model forecast cycle in D2D showed
   strengthening warm forecasting upper-level ridging to build southeast
   across air advection over eastern Ontario and western Quebec, Quebec
   and northern New England. Rapid clearing was in advance of a shortwave
   moving eastward across observed to be occurring in conjunction with the
   building western Ontario. Precipitation associated with this feature
   ridge. Forecasters at Gray, Maine, were interested to was forecast to
   develop across central and southern know if the rapid clearing would
   continue into their forecast Quebec between 1800 UTC 03 October and
   0000 UTC area, as well as the origin of the drier air. 04 October 2001,
   affecting mainly southeast Quebec and northern Maine. Trajectories were
   constructed with starting points over central Quebec . The trajectories
   had starting points Further examination of the processes involved in
   creating ranging between 300 mb and 850 mb. Colored by relative the
   precipitation was performed using D3D. This humidity, the trajectories
   clearly showed the drying that examination allowed forecasters at WFO
   Gray, Maine, to occurred as the air parcels descended from the upper
   get a much better idea of where and when the maximum levels towards the
   surface. precipitation could be expected. Looping through the model
   forecasts using multiple Employing an isosurface of vorticity
   (associated with the isosurfaces of relative humidity and the
   trajectories also approaching short wave) and isosurfaces of
   temperature showed the approaching airmass drying with time, as the (5
   and 10 degrees Celsius) allowed the forecaster to get trajectories
   reached further into southern New England. a better appreciation for
   the depth of the approaching Thus forecasters were able to determine
   that the arriving shortwave and associated warm advection. airmass
   would provide rapid clearing, as well as contain air parcels that
   originated in the upper troposphere. Finally, isosurfaces of vertical
   velocity were added. Looping through the model output showed a maximum
   in 5. REFERENCES depth of vertical velocity isosurface at the
   intersection of the maximum depth of vorticity and temperature Szoke,
   E.J., U.H. Grote, P.C. Kucera, P.T isosurfaces. Not surprisingly, the
   forecast maximum McCaslin, P.A. McDonald, and W.F. Roberts,
   precipitation amounts and timing coincided with the 2001: D3D: A
   Potential 3D Visualization Tool occurrence of the maximum depth of
   vertical velocity. for the National Weather Service. Preprints,
   International Conference on Interactive The benefit of the D3D data
   interrogation in this case Information and Processing Systems (IIPS)
   for enabled forecasters to identify the feature with the most
   Meteorology, Oceanography and Hydrology, vertical depth. This feature
   would be responsible for a Albuquerque, NM, Amer. Meteor. Soc. majority
   of the resultant precipitation over the Gray, Maine
   http://d3d.fsl.noaa.gov/ams01/paper/D3D_for_the_ forecast area. Other
   similar features were observed, but NWS.html none possessed the same
   magnitude of depth. This is important because the "traditional" model
   forecast interrogation (D2D) usually involves an examination of data on
   single pressure or potential temperature fields or at single data
   points. While multiple, seemingly identical, features may be observed
   on a surface, such as vorticity on the 500-mb surface, one would have
   trouble reconciling which of the vorticity maximums will likely have
   the most effect on the sensible weather at the surface. As documented
   in this case, the vorticity advection, coupled with the temperature
   advection, produced numerous areas of upward vertical velocity. The
   three-dimensional area with the largest atmospheric depth had the most
   effect on the sensible weather at the surface.
