http://www.orleanscdc.gov/map.htm

   CDC Index:

   CDC Home

   City Court

   Civil Sheriff

   Clerk of Court

   Conveyance Ofc

   Courts & Sources

   Court Crier

   Duty Judge

   Evictions

   Filing

   Filing Fees

   Floor Plan

   Forms

   General Info

   Holidays

   Judges

   Jury Info

   Legal Interest

   Map

   Mortgage Ofc

   Notarial Archives

   Remote Access

   Who to Contact

   Search Site

                                  CDC logo

                          CIVIL DISTRICT COURT MAP

                             How do I get there?

                                 [line9.gif]

                             DRIVING DIRECTIONS

                               From the North
                                From the East
                                From the West
                               From the South

                                 [line9.gif]

          MapBlast! Map!
            Brought to you by MapBlast!  (Click on map to navigate)

                    Look at a floor plan of the building

                                 [line9.gif]

                            DRIVING DIRECTIONS TO
                            Civil District Court
                           New Orleans, Louisiana

                               From the NORTH:

     Travel on Interstate Highway 10 (I-10) to New Orleans business
     district, and on to the Slidell split. Exit (to your left) at the
     Poydras Street exit. The Civil Courts Building is on the left-hand
     side at the corner of Poydras and Loyola, which is the first
     intersection at which the streets in both directions are divided by
     medians. Parking is available in the surrounding area. See the
     parking map below.

                            Return to Top of Page

                               From the EAST:

     Travel on Interstate Highway 10 (I-10) to New Orleans business
     district, past the French Quarter exit (Orleans). Exit (to your
     right) at the Superdome/Canal exit. At the bottom of the ramp, turn
     right onto Cleveland Street. Travel to the dead end of Cleveland at
     Elk Place/Loyola Avenue. Turn right, and travel two (2) blocks to
     Perdido Street. The Civil Courts Building is on the right-hand side
     at the corner of Loyola and Perdido. You will see the main entrance
     to the building. Parking is available in the surrounding area. See
     the parking map below.

                            Return to Top of Page

                               From the WEST:

     (Same directions as from the North) Travel on Interstate Highway 10
     (I-10) to New Orleans business district, and on to the Slidell
     split. Exit (to your left) at the Poydras Street exit. The Civil
     Courts Building is on the left-hand side at the corner of Poydras
     and Loyola, which is the first intersection at which the streets in
     both directions are divided by medians. Parking is available in the
     surrounding area. See the parking map below.

                            Return to Top of Page

                               From the SOUTH:

     Travel on Interstate Highway 10 (I-10) to New Orleans business
     district. Cross over the Greater New Orleans Bridge (Crescent City
     Connection -- toll bridge, $1.00 toll for cars). Exit (to your
     right) at theO'Keefe Street exit. Travel through the intersection at
     the bottom of the ramp onto O'Keefe Street. Travel through three (3)
     traffic lights (at Julia, Girod and Poydras Streets), make a left
     turn at the next corner (Perdido Street). At the second corner/light
     (Loyola Avenue) you will be facing the front entrance of the Civil
     Courts Building across the street. Parking is available in the
     surrounding area. See the parking map below.

                                 [line9.gif]

                             VIEW THE STREET MAP

                            Return to Top of Page


    Copyright © 1997-2002 Civil District Court for the Parish of Orleans
    http://www.orleanscdc.gov/
