http://cogme.gov/links.htm

   Council on Graduate Medical Education

   Publications

   Meetings

   News & Events

   About COGME

   Members & Staff

   Useful Links

   Site Index

   Home

     Resources on the Internet

     Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education
     The Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education lists all
     accredited providers and details the process of accreditation.

     Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education
     The Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education is
     responsible for the accreditation residency training programs within
     the United States.

     American Academy of Family Physicians
     The American Academy of Family Physicians (AAFP) is a national,
     non-profit medical association of more than 88,000 members (family
     physicians, family practice residents, and medical students).

     American Academy of Pediatrics
     Committed to the attainment of optimal physical, mental, and social
     health and well being for all infants, children, adolescents, and
     young adults.

     American Association of Health Plans
     The American Association of Health Plans (AAHP) represents more than
     1,000 HMOs, PPOs, UROs and other network based plans. AAHP's member
     companies are dedicated to a philosophy of health care that puts the
     patient first; together, they care for more than 100 million
     Americans nationwide.

     American Board of Medical Specialities
     The American Board of Medical Specialties (ABMS) is the umbrella
     organization for the 24 approved medical specialty boards in the
     United States. Established in 1933, the ABMS serves to coordinate
     the activities of its Member Boards and to provide information to
     the public, the government, the profession and its Members
     concerning issues involving specialization and certification in
     medicine.

     American College of International Physicians
     The college is organized exclusively for educational, scientific,
     research and charitable purposes.

     American College of Physicians
     Includes Annals of Internal Medicine, ACP Journal Club, and
     Evidence-Based Medicine.(Other content restricted to members.)

     American Medical Association - Resident Physician Section
     Hello and welcome to the electronic home of the American Medical
     Association's Resident and Fellow Section. Our goal for this web
     page is to serve physicians in training and to make communications a
     two-way street. Please join me in our effort to communicate by
     sharing your views and talents.

     American Medical Student Association
     The American Medical Student Association (AMSA), with nearly a
     half-century history of medical student activism, is the oldest and
     largest independent association of physicians-in-training in the
     United States.

     American Medical Women's Association
     The American Medical Women's Association (AMWA) is an organization
     of 10,000 women physicians and medical students dedicated to serving
     as the unique voice for women's health and the advancement of women
     in medicine.

     Association of American Medical Colleges
     The mission of the Association of American Medical Colleges is to
     improve the health of the public by enhancing the effectiveness of
     academic medicine.

     Association for Health Services Research
     The Association for Health Services Research is the only national
     membership organization devoted to the promotion of research focused
     on the delivery, quality and financing of the United States health
     care system.

     Committee of Interns and Residents
     Committee of Interns and Residents is the oldest and largest union
     of resident physicians in the U.S., with 9,000 members in hospitals
     throughout the country.

     CDC- Health US
     Health, United States, 1998 with Socioeconomic Status and Health
     Chartbook

     Dept of Commerce- U.S. Census Bureau
     Census Bureau Mission. To be the preeminent collector and provider
     of timely, relevant, and quality data about the people and economy
     of the United States.

     Education Commission for FMGs
     The Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates (ECFMGSM),
     through its program of certification, assesses the readiness of
     graduates of foreign medical schools to enter residency or
     fellowship programs in the United States that are accredited by the
     Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME).

     Federation of State Medical Boards
     The Federation of State Medical Boards is composed of 68 member
     boards whose primary responsibilities and obligations are to protect
     the public through the regulation of physicians and other health
     care providers.

     Health Care Financing Administration
     Welcome to the Health Care Financing Administration (HCFA), the
     federal agency that administers the Medicare, Medicaid and Child
     Health Insurance Programs.

     Institute of Medicine
     The mission of the Institute of Medicine is to advance and
     disseminate scientific knowledge to improve human health. The
     Institute provides objective, timely, authoritative information and
     advice concerning health and science policy to government, the
     corporate sector, the professions and the public.

     Library of Congress
     The Library's mission is to make its resources available and useful
     to the Congress and the American people and to sustain and preserve
     a universal collection of knowledge and creativity for future
     generations.

     Medicare Payment Advisory Commission
     The Medicare Payment Advisory Commission (MedPAC) is an independent
     federal body that advises the U.S. Congress on issues affecting the
     Medicare program. It was established by the Balanced Budget Act of
     1997 (P.L. 105-33), which merged the Prospective Payment Assessment
     Commission (ProPAC) and the Physician Payment Review Commission
     (PPRC).

     National Academy of State Health Policy
     (NASHP) is dedicated to excellence in state health policy and
     practice. Through this website and the organization's many other
     activities, NASHP works to disseminate information designed to
     assist states in the development of practical, innovative solutions
     to complex health policy issues.

     National Advisory Council on Nurse Education and Practice
     Health Resources and Services Administration, Division of Nursing

     National Association of Childrens Hospitals
     The National Association of Children's Hospitals (N.A.C.H.) is a
     nonprofit trade association of more than 100 children's hospitals
     across the country, including freestanding acute care children's
     hospitals, children's hospitals organized within larger hospitals,
     and freestanding children's specialty and rehabilitation hospitals.

     National Board of Medical Examiners
     The central mission of the National Board of Medical Examiners (NBME
     ) is to prepare and administer qualifying examinations, either
     independently or jointly with other organizations, of such high
     quality that legal agencies governing the practice of medicine
     within each state may in their discretion grant a license without
     further examination for those who have completed successfully such
     examinations.

     National Conference of State Legislatures
     Our Mission: Improving the quality and effectiveness of state
     legislatures. Fostering interstate communication and cooperation.
     Ensuring legislatures a strong, cohesive voice in the federal
     system.

     National Consortium of Residents, Inc. (NCR)
     NCR strives to engage resident physician leaders in building new
     visions for graduate medical education and for health care. The NCR
     seeks to define and advance issues common to all residents.

     National Health Policy Forum
     The National Health Policy Forum (NHPF) is a bipartisan education
     and information exchange program primarily serving federal
     legislative and executive agency staff working in health care and
     related areas. Its goal is to foster more informed government
     decision making by promoting broader interaction among opinion
     leaders in the public and the private sectors.

     National Hispanic Medical Assn
     The National Hispanic Medical Association was organized in 1994 to
     address the interests and concerns of 26,000 licensed physicians and
     1,800 full-time Hispanic medical faculty dedicated to teaching
     medical and health services research.

     National Medical Association
     The nation's oldest and largest professional, educational and
     scientific organization representing the interests of
     African-American physicians and promoting optimum health for
     African-American and medically underserved populations.

     Office of Minority Health Resource Center
     OMH-RC maintains minority health databases as well as scientific
     reports, journals, and documents. Spanish-speaking information
     specialists are also available to conduct customized searches of its
     databases and library to access information on minority health
     programs, organizations, and funding sources.

     Partnerships for Quality Education
     Partnerships for Quality Education (PQE) was launched in 1996 with
     an $8.3 million grant from The Pew Charitable Trusts. The goal was
     to help residency training programs and managed care organizations
     collaborate on primary care resident education.

     Thomas
     Legislative Information on the Internet

     Undergraduate Medical Education for the 21st Century
     The Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), U.S. Public
     Health Service, has approved the participation of eighteen medical
     schools in the Undergraduate Medical Education for the 21st Century
     (UME-21) project, administered by the American Association of
     Colleges of Osteopathic Medicine (AACOM).


     | Publications | Meetings | News & Events | About COGME | Members &
                  Staff | Useful Links | Site Index | Home
            _____________________________________________________

                       Last Updated September 17, 2001

          Contact Comments@hrsa.gov with site problems or comments.

                        Bureau of Health Professions
                 Health Resources & Services Administration
                    U.S. Dept. of Health & Human Services
                     US Dept.of Health & Human Services
