http://www.cahwnet.gov


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                              Featured Sites
                              Our Customers
                              Internet Services



   California Health & Human
             Services Agency Data Center



    __________ search
           (*)   My CA


   California Health & Human Services Network

   Welcome to the California Health & Human Services Internet Domain
   (CAHWNET.GOV). This domain is housed and maintained by the California
   Health and Human Services Agency Data Center to help provide the public
   with up-to-date services. The California Health & Human Services Agency
   Data Center is always striving to make our services the best that they
   can be.

   Below is a list of list of featured sites. You may also view all of our
   customers, as well as our service offerings, by selecting the links to
   the right of this page.

          The California Architects Board (formerly known as the
          California Board of Architectural Examiners) was created in 1901
          by the California Legislature to protect the health, safety, and
          welfare of the public through the regulation of the practice of
          architecture in California.

          - California Architects Board

   California Health and Human Services Agency
          The Health and Human Services Agency administers state and
          federal programs for health care, social services, public
          assistance, job training and rehabilitation.

          - California Health & Human Services Agency

   Employment Development Department
          The Employment Development Department is a multifaceted
          organization that provides quality services under the Job
          Service, Unemployment Insurance and Disability Insurance
          programs.

          - Employment Development Department

                             Back to Top of Page
    © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
