http://www.usda.gov/news/releases/2001/10/0198.htm

                               [image002.jpg]

   Release No. 0198.01

Kevin Herglotz (202) 720-4623


   USDA APPOINTS MIKE NERUDA AS DEPUTY UNDER SCRETARY FOR RURAL
   DEVELOPMENT


   WASHINGTON, Oct. 12, 2001--Agriculture Secretary Ann M. Veneman today
   announced the appointment of Michael E. Neruda as the Deputy Under
   Secretary for Rural Development.


               “I’m extremely pleased with the experience that Mike brings
   to the USDA team,” said Veneman.  “He will be an asset to the
   Department as it strategically plans rural development policy for the
   new century.”


   Neruda, a native of rural Nebraska, brings extensive knowledge of
   agricultural and management issues to USDA as a result of his many
   years of service for the U.S. Congress and USDA. During his years of
   congressional service, he worked for a number of U.S. Senators and
   Members of Congress and served as the staff director for the House
   Committee on Agriculture’s Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities,
   Resource Conservation and Credit.  Neruda also served during the
   previous Bush Administration as the Executive Assistant to then
   Agriculture Secretary Edward Madigan where he provided direction and
   guidance on field structure and management issues


   Neruda, a Captain in the U.S. Navy Reserve, received the Bronze Star
   for his service on active duty during Operation Desert Storm.  After
   the war he was chosen to return to the USA with General Norman
   Schwarzkopf to manage all aspects of the General’s participation in
   public events.  He is a father of two children, Michael and Stephanie,
   and holds a bachelor of science degree in general agriculture from the
   University of Nebraska-Lincoln and a master of arts degree in public
   administration from the University of Oklahoma. Neruda currently
   resides in Bethesda, Md.


   USDA Rural Development serves as the lead federal entity for rural
   development needs, and administers program assistance through three
   agencies: Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service,
   and Rural Utilities Service. Further information on USDA Rural
   Development programs can be obtained by visiting USDA's web site at
   http://www.rurdev.usda.gov.


                                      #
