http://insitu.jpl.nasa.gov/neptune.html


   Center for In Situ Exploration and Sample Return

   Home Line Sitemap topnav-spacer Overview Roadmap Science Technology Go


   Top corner
   News Flashes
   Team In Situ
   NEPTUNE Project
   Speaker Series
   Newsletter
   Library
   Conferences

   content-spacer

                             The Neptune Project

   Neptune Project The Northeast Pacific Time-series Undersea Networked
   Experiment (NEPTUNE)

   The NEPTUNE project is a collaborative effort by the University of
   Washington (UW), the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute (WHOI), the
   Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute (MBARI), the Jet Propulsion
   Laboratory (JPL), and Canada's Institute for Pacific Ocean Science and
   Technology (IPOST). The scientific and engineering research and
   development for NEPTUNE is being carried out mainly by oceanographic
   research institutes and universities. JPL is contributing project
   management expertise and system engineering and power system expertise
   to the project.

   The NEPTUNE Project seeks to address the question: "How can we study
   the essential and interactive processes that make up the dynamic
   earth-ocean system, over spatial scales of microns to hundreds of
   kilometers, and temporal scales from seconds to decades?" NEPTUNE will
   address this problem by establishing a linked array of undersea
   observatories on the Juan de Fuca plate located in the northeastern
   Pacific Ocean. Fiber-optic/power cable will connect land-based
   scientists, students, decision makers, and the public to distributed
   sensors and sensor networks above, on, and beneath the seafloor. The
   motivation behind NEPTUNE's scientific and educational components,
   technical considerations, and implementation is discussed in the
   NEPTUNE Feasibility Study titled "Real-Time, Long-Term Ocean & Earth
   Studies at the Scale of a Tectonic Plate" that was prepared for the
   National Oceanographic Partnership Program (NOPP) in June 2000.

   Some of the scientific topics that motivate NEPTUNE include studies of
   cross-margin particulate flux, seismology and geodynamics, seafloor
   hydrology and biogeochemistry, ridge-crest processes, subduction zone
   processes (fluid venting and gas hydrates), deep-sea ecology, and water
   column processes. Research on the deep hot biosphere is just one
   example of the kind of study that links together all the scientific
   topics. There are strong intellectual and societal drivers for
   implementing NEPTUNE.

   The NEPTUNE infrastructure, consisting of fiber-optic/power cable and
   junction boxes on the seafloor, will provide large amounts of power
   (kilowatts) and an Internet communications link (gigabits/second) at
   distributed junction box nodes. Connected to these nodes will be
   sensors and sensor networks, some of which constitute "community
   experiments" while others are for individual investigators. The
   information management system brings together all the data to enable
   the linkages and connections between the various processes to be
   studied in detail by an extended community of scientists, students, and
   the public. The NEPTUNE approach also holds implications for the
   exploration of oceans elsewhere in our solar system. The Feasibility
   Study demonstrates that NEPTUNE is technically feasible and can be
   implemented at an affordable price.

   The NEPTUNE concept is new to the ocean and earth science communities
   and will require new ways of thinking about how to do research from a
   technical, as well as programmatic, point of view. We must accept this
   challenge if we are to continue to make progress in understanding our
   world.

   Please click on the NEPTUNE logo at the top of this page to visit the
   project's website. There you will find detailed information about the
   Project's Science Overview, the Observatory infrastructure, and the
   exciting education and outreach programs that the NEPTUNE partners are
   planning.
   leftnav-bottom

   Last Updated: 15 August 2001
