http://www.cami.jccbi.gov/aam-400/programs.pdf

   FAA TRAINING PROGRAMS IN AVIATION MEDICINE Aeromedical Education
   Division Civil Aeromedical Institute FAA Office of Aviation Medicine
   The Aeromedical Education Division of the Civil issued medical
   certification. To properly discharge Aeromedical Institute (CAMI)
   offers several aero- the duties associated with this responsibility,
   AMEs medical training programs for Aviation Medical must have detailed
   knowledge and understanding Examiners (AMEs), civil aviation pilots,
   and oth- of the FAA rules, regulations, policies, and proce- ers in the
   civil aviation community. These training dures related to the medical
   standards and the cer- programs include: Basic Aviation Medical Exam-
   tification process. iner Seminars, Theme Aviation Medical Examiner
   Seminars, Multimedia Aviation Medical Examiner Basic Aviation Medical
   Examiner Seminar Refresher Course (MAMERC), Clinical Aerospace
   Physiology Review for Aviation Medical Examin- This one-week seminar is
   offered 3-4 times per year ers Course (CAPAME), Aviation Physiology at
   the FAA Civil Aeromedical Institute (CAMI) in Course, Global Survival
   Course, and the FAA In- Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. Completion of this
   ternational Exchange Visitor Program. seminar is one of the mandatory
   requirements for designation as an AME for the FAA. This seminar
   AVIATION MEDICAL EXAMINER is designed to: Familiarize new AMEs with the
   FAA TRAINING PROGRAMS medical certification program and their responsi-
   bilities in this program. Recognize the basis for dis- The Federal
   Aviation Administration has a volun- qualification of an airman with a
   medical problem tary force of approximately 5,300 physicians des- and
   the conditions necessitating deferral or denial ignated to perform
   duties as Aviation Medical Ex- as outlined in Federal Aviation
   Regulations. Un- aminers (AMEs). These AMEs are located in the derstand
   and be able to explain to an airman the private sector, Federal
   agencies (Air Force, Navy, denial process to include steps necessary
   for certi- Army, NASA, Coast Guard, others) and in 93 coun- fication
   appeal rights. Enable AMEs to become the tries around the world. AMEs
   are given authority local authority in aviation medicine, and as a re-
   to perform physical examinations of U.S. airmen source to assist
   medical colleagues in determining to determine their qualifications for
   the issuance who may be able to fly safely as a patient or air- of a
   medical certificate as required under Part 67 man. This seminar
   complies with ICAO Interna- of the Code of Federal Regulations. In
   addition to tional Standards on Personnel Licensing, Annex 1 providing
   an essential service to the aviation popu- to the Convention on
   International Aviation, No. lation, AMEs have the responsibility to
   ensure that 1.2.4.4. "Contracting states shall designate medi- only
   those applicants who are physically and men- cal examiners, qualified
   and licensed in the prac- tally fit to perform flying duties safely
   will be tice of medicine, to conduct medical examinations 1 of fitness
   of applicants for the issue or renewal of Multimedia Aviation Medical
   Examiner the licenses or ratings...", and No. 1.2.4.4.1 "Medi-
   Refresher Course (MAMERC) cal examiners shall have had, or shall
   receive, train- ing in aviation medicine..." Another option to comply
   with the mandatory AME refresher training requirement is to complete
   Medical Certification Standards and MAMERC. This course can be used as
   a substitute Procedures Training (MCSPT) for Theme AME Seminar
   attendance on alternate 3-year cycles, which extends the time between
   Completion of this training is one of the manda- seminar attendance to
   6 years and reduces AME tory requirements for designation as an AME for
   travel expenses and time away from the office. The the FAA. AME
   applicants must complete this train- MAMERC is a computer-based
   training course ing as a pre-requisite for attendance to a Basic AME
   (also available in correspondence version) designed Seminar. A staff
   member from the AME's office is to evaluate and enhance the quality of
   airman medi- also required to complete this training prior to the cal
   certification decisions made by AMEs. The AME's designation and
   subsequently every 3 years. MAMERC evaluates, instructs, and tests AMEs
   on MCSPT is a computer-based course (also available their knowledge of
   medical certification standards in correspondence version) that was
   designed to and how they apply such knowledge to make ap- familiarize
   AMEs and their staffs with the admin- propriate aeromedical
   certification decisions. For istrative aspects of the medical
   certification pro- the first time in the history of the FAA AME pro-
   gram, and to prevent/reduce AME errors in the pro- gram a training
   course was designed to evaluate, cessing of medical certification
   documentation that instruct, and test AMEs on their medical decision-
   are time-consuming and costly to the FAA. making skills regarding
   airmen fitness to fly. AMEs not only have to demonstrate their
   knowledge of Theme Aviation Medical medical certification standards,
   but how they ap- Examiner Seminars ply such knowledge to make
   appropriate aeromedi- cal certification decisions. The course includes
   a To maintain their designation, AMEs are required videotape containing
   30 scenarios that portray to complete refresher training every 3 years.
   One AMEs, Aeromedical Certification Division person- alternative to
   comply with this training requirement nel, Regional Flight Surgeons,
   and consulting phy- is to attend a 2 ½ day theme AME seminar. The
   sicians performing their various duties in the air- seminars are
   offered in 6 different locations across man medical certification
   process. After viewing the U.S. every year. The first day of the
   seminar is each scenario, AMEs are required to complete a completely
   devoted to a particular medical theme. pre-test that evaluates their
   knowledge of medical Available themes are: 1) Cardiology, 2) Neurology,
   certification standards and their aeromedical deci- Neuropsychology,
   and Psychiatry, 3) Ophthalmol- sion-making skills. Those AMEs who
   successfully ogy, ENT, and Endocrinology and 4) Aviation complete the
   pre-test may reduce total training time Physiology and Human Factors.
   These seminars are to three or four hours. AMEs who are not as profi-
   designed to provide the latest medical and techni- cient are provided
   with a more detailed, self-paced, cal information and clinical
   techniques in various interactive instruction designed for maximum
   medical fields and specialties, to improve the pro- learning
   efficiency. Furthermore, the MAMERC ficiency of AMEs in their medical
   practice. Im- provides an effective quality assurance and qual- prove
   the AME's knowledge, techniques and skills ity improvement tool for the
   Aeromedical Certifi- in medically evaluating airmen. This is accom-
   cation Program. plished by instructing AMEs in those medical spe-
   cialties and behavioral sciences that will enable them to assess the
   airman's ability to operate an aircraft with maximum mental and
   physical proficiency. 2 Clinical Aerospace Physiology Review for AIRMEN
   TRAINING PROGRAMS Aviation Medical Examiners Course (CAPAME) Airmen
   training programs are designed to promote aeromedical knowledge and
   safety among the ap- This computer-based course (also available in cor-
   proximately 600,000 civil aviation pilots in the U.S. respondence
   version) was designed to enable AMEs to recognize the hazards of pilot
   exposure to self- Aviation Physiology Course imposed and environmental
   stress factors during the operation of an aircraft, that may lead to
   im- Physiological training for pilots was introduced in pairment,
   incapacitation, or death. This course fa- the military in 1942 to
   prevent and/or reduce the miliarizes AMEs with the physiological
   effects re- number of incidents, accidents, and fatalities re- sulting
   from the interaction between humans, the sulting from pilot exposure to
   the hostile environ- aerospace physical environment, and the aircraft.
   mental conditions encountered during flight. The objective of this
   course is to enable AMEs to recognize unsafe conditions and/or
   practices dur- Pilots who are knowledgeable about aeromedical ing the
   operation of an aircraft that may lead to the facts are certainly
   better prepared to deal with un- physiological impairment and/or
   incapacitation of expected and/or expected inflight events such as:
   pilots. AMEs can increase their knowledge of aero- 1) loss of cabin
   pressure (slow or rapid) leading to space physiology and improve their
   ability to as- hypoxia, trapped gas problems, or decompression sist
   airmen who experience aviation-related medi- sickness, 2) exposure to
   an unfamiliar motion en- cal problems. In addition, AMEs must possess
   the vironment leading to spatial disorientation, 3) ex- necessary
   knowledge in aerospace physiology to posure to acceleration forces (Gs)
   leading to gray- provide appropriate advice to civil aviation pilots
   out, black-out, or even unconsciousness (G-LOC), regarding the impact
   of these aviation-related stress 4) exposure to noise, vibration, or
   thermal stress factors. The course includes a videotape with 30 leading
   to impaired performance, and 5) exposure scenarios portraying airmen
   who have been af- to self-imposed stresses which may lead to, and/or
   fected by a variety of problems including hypoxia, aggravate, any of
   the above mentioned inflight hyperventilation, decompression sickness,
   trapped events. gases, acceleration exposure, noise exposure, vi-
   bration exposure, laser exposure, spatial disorien- The U.S. Code of
   Federal Regulations (CFR), Title tation, airsickness, carbon monoxide
   poisoning, 14, Part 61.31 (f)(2)(i), indicates that no person heat
   stress, self-imposed stress, etc. After viewing may act as pilot in
   command of a pressurized air- each scenario, AMEs are required to
   complete a plane that has a service ceiling or maximum oper- pre-test
   that evaluates their knowledge of medical ating altitude, whichever is
   lower, above 25,000 certification standards and their aeromedical deci-
   feet MSL unless that person has completed ground sion-making skills.
   training that includes instruction on respiration; effects, symptoms,
   and causes of hypoxia and any Advanced Aerospace Medicine Multimedia
   other high altitude sicknesses; duration of con- Course (AAMMC)
   sciousness without supplemental oxygen; effects of prolonged usage of
   supplemental oxygen; causes Aerospace medicine is a very dynamic
   scientific and effects of gas expansion and gas bubble for- discipline
   that must keep pace with not only the mations; preventive measures for
   eliminating gas rapid advances in medicine in general, but also
   expansion, gas bubble formations, and high alti- unique aerospace
   medical issues resulting from the tude sicknesses; physical phenomena
   and incidents accelerated introduction of new aerospace tech- of
   decompression; and any other physiological as- nologies. Maintaining
   currency in civil aerospace pects of high altitude flight. medicine
   presents a challenge for all physicians who are involved in the
   day-to-day operational The objective of the FAA Aviation Physiology
   aeromedical support of civil aviation. FAA physi- Course is to
   familiarize pilots with the physiologi- cians as well as AMEs are the
   target populations cal and psychological stresses of flight including
   for this new multimedia course that is currently the effects of
   self-imposed stress (illegal and legal under development. However, this
   course will me drug use, alcohol consumption, smoking, fatigue, made
   available to anybody who is interested. 3 inadequate nutrition,
   sedentary lifestyle, excessive The Aviation Physiology Course also
   includes a caffeine consumption, etc.) and their impact on practical
   demonstration of spatial disorientation aviation safety. using a
   General Aviation Spatial Disorientation Demonstrator (GYRO) or the
   Virtual Reality This course includes practical demonstrations of
   Spatial Disorientation Demonstrator (VRSDD). rapid decompression (8 to
   18K feet), hypoxia (25K The critical importance of this type of
   practical feet), and night vision, using the safest and most
   demonstration is evidenced by aircraft accident in- technologically
   advanced training altitude chamber vestigation reports indicating that
   inflight spatial (Fig. 1) available in the U.S. today disorientation is
   a causal or contributing factor in about 10% of all general aviation
   accidents. Fur- thermore, it has been reported that up to 90% of the
   total number of general aviation accidents in- volving inflight spatial
   disorientation are fatal. The GYRO (Fig. 2) is a device that provides
   360 degree continuous yaw motion as well as + or - 15 degree pitch and
   30 degree roll which, in conjunc- tion with a computerized imaging
   system, results in a realistic simulation of flight. The GYRO pro-
   vides civil aviation pilots, aviation medical exam- iners, and FAA
   flight crews with the opportunity to experience vestibular and visual
   illusions (spa- tial disorientation) that occur during IFR conditions
   in an inherently safe environment. The programmed flight in the GYRO
   does not require an instructor - only an external safety observer. The
   pilot receives Figure 1. Altitude Chamber a 2-min orientation and then
   takes the controls. The 6-min. flight progresses from VFR, with
   "out-the- window" scenes on a CRT, to IFR conditions. CAMI has the only
   operational altitude chambers (training and research) in the U.S. that
   meet the current safety standards in the pressure vessel in- dustry to
   ensure the protection of occupants, op- erators, and maintenance staff.
   This requires that the design, fabrication, testing, and inspections of
   the chamber meet the following standards: 1) American Society of
   Mechanical Engineers, (ASME) ASME/ANSI, PVHO-1 "Safety Standards for
   Pressure Vessels for Human Occupancy", 2) ASME, "Boiler and Pressure
   Vessel Code". Sec- tion VIII, Division I, "Rules for Construction of
   Pressure Vessels", Section II, "Material Specifica- tions", and Section
   IX, "Welding and Brazing Qualifications", 3) National Fire Protection
   Asso- ciation, (NFPA), 70, National Electrical Code, (NEC) National
   Fire Protection Association, (NFPA), 99B, Hypobaric Facilities. Figure
   2. GYRO 4 safely fly under these conditions. This device pro- vides the
   practical means to convince VFR rated pi- lots to stay out of IFR
   conditions, and increases aware- ness among IFR rated pilots that they
   are not imper- vious to the effects of spatial disorientation simply
   because they hold an IFR rating. Global Survival Course The Global
   Survival Course provides the neces- sary knowledge and skills for
   coping with various common survival scenarios including desert, arc-
   tic, and water environments following an emer- gency aircraft landing,
   ditching, or a crash. Prac- tice sessions are conducted using a thermal
   cham- ber, a ditching tank, and an emergency evacuation aircraft
   simulator. In addition, this course teaches how Figure 3. VRSDD to
   easily assemble and use a personal survival kit. The VRSDD (Fig. 3) is
   a one-of-a-kind prototype The thermal chamber (Fig. 5) is used to
   practice that uses a powerful computer with terrain and air- survival
   techniques and procedures in a cold craft database and a Head Mounted
   Display (-20°F), windy (15-20 mph), and dark (simulated (HMD). This
   visual system is coupled with a 360 night) environment. degree
   continuous yaw motion-platform and allows for a very realistic
   demonstration of the effects of spatial disorientation during flight.
   The key differ- ence between the VRSDD and other spatial disori-
   entation devices is that it immerses the pilot in a real time
   3-dimensional space. The VRSDD uti- lizes high resolution 3-dimensional
   imagery to cre- ate a flight environment which is "virtually" real. The
   user has a real time interaction with the vir- tual environment by
   becoming part of it and by being able to manipulate/control it. Virtual
   reality is an effective, efficient, and inherently safe tech- nology
   that can be used to simulate logistically impractical, expensive, or
   even dangerous real world settings (i.e., aviation and space environ-
   Figure 4. Fire Starting Demonstration ments, medical procedures, etc.).
   The VRSDD is being used by civil aviation pilots, aviation medical
   examiners, and FAA flight crews participating in Aviation Physiology
   training courses offered at CAMI. It is also being used in support of
   the National Accident Prevention Program through- out the U.S. It
   provides civil aviation pilots with the opportunity to experience, in
   an inherently safe envi- ronment, certain vestibular illusions that
   occur dur- ing IFR conditions. The VRSDD provides a practi- cal and
   highly convincing demonstration of the hu- man limitations to maintain
   spatial orientation dur- ing IFR conditions, as well as emphasizing the
   im- portance of relying on cockpit instrumentation to Figure 5. Thermal
   Chamber 5 The ditching tank (Fig. 6) is used to practice tech- The
   emergency evacuation simulator (Fig. 7) consists niques and procedures
   for emergency egress from of a section of fuselage of a passenger
   aircraft that is a Cessna Sabreliner or a Beechcraft King Air; as
   elevated (using hydraulic jacks) and then filled with well as water
   survival techniques, the use of flota- non-toxic smoke (glycerin) to
   provide a practical and tion devices, and rescue procedures (using a
   heli- very realistic simulation of an emergency evacuation copter
   hoist). The water temperature in the ditch- scenario due to smoke in
   the cabin. ing tank is maintained around 80 °F. Figure 7. Emergency
   Evacuation Simulator Figure 6. Ditching Tank 6 Aviation Physiology
   Video Course standards, policies, and procedures with profession- als
   in foreign countries who are involved in the The objective of this
   course is to familiarize civil organization and development of their
   own civil aviation pilots with the physiological effects of ex-
   aviation programs. posure to flight stress factors and self-imposed
   stress, as well as the appropriate preventive and/or FAA International
   Exchange protective measures. This distance education course Visitor
   Program can be made available to every civil aviation pilot who
   requests a copy, and to anybody else inter- The FAA Civil Aeromedical
   Institute supports in- ested in the promotion of aviation safety.
   Topics ternational programs that promote interaction be- covered in
   this video course include: physics of tween aviation medicine
   professionals, enable ex- the atmosphere, respiration and circulation,
   hy- change of scientific information, and promote FAA's poxia,
   hyperventilation, trapped gases, decompres- leading role in civil
   aviation medicine worldwide. sion sickness, oxygen equipment, cabin
   pressuriza- tion, motion sickness, fitness for flight, spatial dis- One
   such program is the International Exchange orientation, self imposed
   stress, thermal stress, fa- Visitor Program, which allows qualified
   special- tigue, vision in aviation, noise and vibration, ac- ists from
   foreign civil aviation organizations to celeration exposure. The first
   part of this video enter the U.S. to conduct studies and/or exchange
   course is nearing completion. information and expertise at FAA
   facilities and at a minimum cost to the agency. The main objective
   Global Survival Video Course of this program is to promote global
   aviation safety through international cooperation activities, pro- The
   objective of this course is to familiarize civil motion of FAA policies
   and procedures and of U.S. aviation pilots with the basic survival
   methods and standards and equipment, and avoidance of unnec- techniques
   to increase their chances of survival essary duplication of research
   efforts. following an emergency aircraft landing, ditching, or a crash.
   Topics covered in this video course in- Participants in this program:
   1) learn the functions clude: will to survive, cold land survival, hot
   land and responsibilities of the FAA Office of Aviation survival, water
   survival, jungle survival, survival Medicine as they relate to the
   promotion of avia- medicine, survival signaling, survival kits. This
   tion safety, 2) participate in the day-to-day work video course is
   under development. activities at CAMI, 3) share their specialized
   knowledge and skills with FAA's specialists in sup- Human Factors in
   General Aviation port of various operational programs, and 4) re-
   Operations Video Course ceive the benefits of interacting with FAA
   profes- sional and technical personnel at a leading civil This video
   course has been funded and will be de- aviation medicine institute
   veloped in the near future. Aeromedical Publications OTHER AEROMEDICAL
   EDUCATION SERVICES High quality publications are produced to fulfill
   the diverse aeromedical information needs of FAA International Outreach
   Program personnel, AMEs, civil aviation pilots, pilot schools, and
   others in the civil aviation commu- CAMI supports foreign requests for
   assistance in nity interested in the promotion of safety. civil
   aviation medicine and aviation human factors. The support provided
   includes: participating in the The Federal Air Surgeon's Medical
   Bulletin is a design, development, implementation and/or evalu-
   quarterly publication that features the following ation of
   international training activities in aviation sections: 1) The Federal
   Air Surgeon's Column - medicine; presenting formal lectures;
   facilitating Updates on Office of Aviation Medicine's pro- discussions;
   and providing technical advise and grams, goals, objectives, policies,
   and procedures information. These international activities help as
   articulated by the Federal Air Surgeon, 2) Aero- promote aviation
   safety by discussing FAA medical medical Certification Cases -
   Discussion of special 7 aeromedical certification cases involving
   pilots or research conducted by the FAA Office of Aviation air traffic
   controllers, 3) Aviation Medicine Re- Medicine. To date 811 technical
   reports have been search Update - Description of aeromedical and
   published on a wide range of subjects from Angu- human resources
   research accomplishments of rel- lar Acceleration to Workload Effects
   on Complex evance to aviation safety, 4) Incapacitated Pilot
   Performance. Tales - Discussion of actual pilot incapacitation's, the
   outcomes, and the lessons learned. Descrip- Aeromedical Library
   Services tion of civil aviation incidents and accidents where pilot
   incapacitation/impaired performance played CAMI has one of the best
   libraries in the world a significant role in the occurrence of such
   events, specialized in aviation medicine and human fac- 5) Aviation
   Medical Examiner Program News - tors. Library services to CAMI and
   Office of Avia- AME education programs updates. Profiles of tion
   Medicine patrons include 1) interlibrary loans AMEs and their
   accomplishments in support of the through membership in two automated
   networks civil aviation community. Letters and articles from that
   provide access to the collections of approxi- AMEs (opinions,
   suggestions, experiences, etc.). mately 29,000 participating libraries;
   2) literature Updates on the administrative aspects of the AME searches
   using numerous online databases and CD- program, 6) Aviation Physiology
   Update - Discus- ROM products; 3) reference services; 4) table-of- sion
   of aerospace physiology and human factors contents service from 200+
   hardcopy journals and issues that have an impact on civil aviation
   opera- electronic sources; and 5) acquisition and catalog- tions, 7)
   Office of Aviation Medicine News - Rel- ing of books, journals, and
   other types of informa- evant news items from the perspective of AAM
   tion materials. The special collection, which fo- personnel from
   headquarters, regions, centers, and cuses on aviation medicine and
   aviation human the Civil Aeromedical Institute, and 8) Meetings
   factors, is networked with several other libraries Calendar -
   Information about upcoming national so that the unique materials may be
   shared. These and international scientific events (conferences,
   materials include 5,800 books, 200+ current jour- meetings, symposia,
   courses, etc.) in the field of nal titles, 12,000 cataloged technical
   reports, a aviation medicine and its allied disciplines. basic
   reference collection, multimedia CBI pro- grams, and numerous CD-ROM
   titles. Medical Facts for Pilots are short brochures de- signed to
   provide essential information to civil For additional information about
   any of the above aviation pilots regarding potential aeromedical
   mentioned training programs and services please hazards, and how to
   prevent or cope with them to contact: ensure flight safety. Currently
   available titles in- clude: Alcohol and Flying, Altitude Decompression
   Dr. Melchor J. Antuñano Sickness, Disorientation, Hearing and Noise in
   Manager, Aeromedical Education Division Aviation, Hypoxia, Laser Eye
   Surgery, Over The FAA Civil Aeromedical Institute Counter Medications
   and Flying, Pilot Vision, Seat FAA, MMAC, CAMI, AAM-400 Belts and
   Shoulder Harnesses: Smart Protection in P.O. Box 25082, Small
   Airplanes, Smoke. Oklahoma City, OK 73125 Phone #: (405)954-6206 FAA
   Office of Aviation Medicine Technical Re- FAX #: (405)954-8016 ports
   are publications used to disseminate the re- e-mail: sults of
   aeromedical and aviation human factors
   melchor_j_antunano@mmacmail.jccbi.gov 8 9 10
