http://maphost.dfg.ca.gov/USGS_Topo.htm


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                            Homepages: DFG / ITB
                            ITB GIS Service Unit
                            [spacer.gif]


                               GIS Information



                               What is a GIS?
                               View a GIS Demo
                               GIS Glossary
                               DFG GIS Staff



                                ITB GIS Units



                Spill Prevention and Response (OSPR)
                Central Valley Bay Delta Branch (CVBDB)
                Marine Region

                Wildlife and Inland Fisheries Division (WIFD)

                [bullet2.gif] Fisheries Program
                [bullet2.gif] Land and Facilities
                [bullet2.gif] Wildlife Programs



                             Internal GIS Links



               Wildlife & Habitat Data Analysis Branch (WHDAB)
               Maphost



                             External GIS Links



        California Geospatial Information Library
        California Environmental Resources Evaluation System (CERES)



   Department of Fish and Game Information Technology Branch



                                                            __________ search
                                                               (*)  My CA


     MapHost


                   California Department of Fish and Game (DFG)
      Spatial Data Resources and Global Positioning System (GPS) Information

               USGS Topographic Map Images (Digital Raster Graphics)

      This document reviews 3 options for DFG employees to acquire digitally
      scanned and georeferenced versions of USGS topographic maps (also known
      as Digital Raster Graphic or "DRG" images).  DRG images can be viewed
      with many GIS and imaging software programs.  Various GIS-related
      software utilities for working with DRG images and other spatial data
      are available to download from MapHost's homepage.

      Statewide sets of DRG images are available in 3 scales (levels of
      detail) based on the source USGS topographic maps.  The images are also
      available in either untrimmed (with map collars) or trimmed (map
      collars removed) formats.  Untrimmed DRG images are useful as they
      contain all the map collar information in the image (such as tic marks,
      map dates, and documentation).  Trimmed DRG images provide seamless map
      display for cartographic purposes.

      1:24,000-scale (24K) / 7.5-minute series DRG images
         Cover small areas with high detail
         Click here to view sample untrimmed and trimmed 24K DRG images
         Click here to download a GIS-format 24K DRG index shapefile and
      metadata
         Click here for important information about recently updated 24K DRG
      images

      1:100,000-scale (100K) / 30 by 60-minute series DRG images
         Cover medium-sized areas with medium detail
         Click here to view sample untrimmed and trimmed 100K DRG images
         Click here to download a GIS-format 100K DRG index shapefile and
      metadata

      1:250,000-scale (250K) / 1 by 2-degree series DRG images
         Cover large areas with coarse detail
         Click here to view sample untrimmed and trimmed 250K DRG images
         Click here to download a GIS-format 250K DRG index shapefile and
      metadata

      Option #1 - Have the DRG images delivered to you on CD-ROM

      Through a data copying service in Sacramento, DFG employees can order
      DRG images and have them delivered on CD-ROM.  Please review the
      following information and determine the particular scales, CD numbers,
      and formats (untrimmed or trimmed) that you need.  Then contact Will
      Patterson (916-323-1484, wpatters@dfg.ca.gov) for ordering
      instructions.

      Available in Albers Projection-NAD27 Datum (DFG standard):

      24K DRG images  (TEMPORARILY  UNAVAILABLE  TO  ORDER)
         Each statewide set (untrimmed or trimmed) consists of 80 CDs
         CD number assignments are identical for the untrimmed and trimmed
      sets
         Click here to view a statewide map of 24K DRG CD numbers

      100K DRG images
         Each statewide set (untrimmed or trimmed) consists of 5 CDs
         CD number assignments are identical for the untrimmed and trimmed
      sets
         Click here to view a statewide map of 100K DRG CD numbers

      250K DRG images
         Each statewide set (untrimmed or trimmed) consists of 1 CD
      Every order includes a CD containing index shapefiles and metadata for
      each of the 3 DRG image series (24K, 100K, 250K).

      Available in UTM Projection-NAD27 or NAD83 Datum:

      All 3 scales of UTM image products (24K, 100K, 250K) are available on
      one set of Enhanced Digital Raster Graphic (DRGE) CD-ROMs.  A DRGE is a
      trimmed and enhanced version of a regular DRG.  Georeferencing world
      files are provided for each image for both NAD27 and NAD83 datums.  The
      images are stored by degree block in zip files.  The statewide set
      consists of 17 CDs.
      Click here to view a statewide map of DRGE CD numbers

      Option #2 - Download free individual DRG images from the Internet

      This GIS Data Depot web site has the following DRG products for
      California:
        * Untrimmed Albers-NAD27 24K images (entire state)
        * Untrimmed UTM-NAD27 100K images (entire state)
        * Untrimmed UTM-NAD27 250K images (entire state)

      http://www.gisdatadepot.com
      http://ceres.ca.gov/geo_area/quads.html   (download 24K DRG images by
      county via the State of California CERES web site)

      Option #3 - Other DRG-related products

      Trimmed Albers-NAD27 250K DRG image mosaics covering each DFG Region
      are available to DFG employees on the Spatial Data Framework CD-ROMs or
      one can access these images from the California Spatial Information
      Library (CaSIL) DRG download page.

                                 Return to MapHost


      2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
