http://sdelta.water.ca.gov/web_pg/rel_lnks.htm

                                [header.GIF]
     [sdip.GIF] [yllwbar.gif]

                   Long-term Solutions Temporary Measures

   | Home | Library | Documents | Studies | Staff | Links | Glossary |
                                [yllwbar.gif]

                                Related Links
                       DWR DWR, California Water Page
   The California Department of Water Resources is a part of The Resources
   Agency, an organization which reports directly to the Governor's Office
   in the Executive Branch of California State Government. The mission of
    the Department of Water Resources is to manage the water resources of
    California in cooperation with other agencies, to benefit the State's
     people, and to protect, restore, and enhance the natural and human
                                environments.
               OSP Office of the State Water Project Planning
    The Office of the State Water Project Planning is one of the several
   divisions in the Department of Water Resources. The Interim South Delta
     Program is a subsection under the Office of the State Water Project
   Planning. The mission of the Office of the State Water Project Planning
     is to facilitate management of California's water resources through
    careful planning, investigation and development of the State's water
                                 resources.
                       CALFED CALFED Bay-Delta Program
    The mission of the CALFED Bay-Delta Program is to develop a long-term
     comprehensive plan that will restore ecological health and improve
        water management for beneficial uses of the Bay-Delta System.
                      DOE Division of Engineering (DOE)
        Our Mission is to provide timely, cost-effective, and quality
     engineering services to our clients and to conserve and enhance the
      natural resources of California. DOE serves a variety of clients
     including other DWR divisions, California water contractors, other
     state agencies and federal agencies. As designers of the California
      State Water Project, the Division has unique historical expertise
    designing and constructing dams, canals, tunnels, pipelines, pumping
     plants, power plants, fish protection facilities; and in performing
       geotechnical and structural analysis, construction inspection,
       construction administration, hydrologic and hydraulic studies.
                              Modeling Modeling
   The Delta Modeling Section is responsible for providing the Department
     of Water Resources and others with long-term information about the
    Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta, by using historical data and performing
   computer modeling studies.  The Section is located in the Office of SWP
                     Planning, Modeling Support Branch.

          Other Links Other Links (State, Federal, Non-Government)
