http://www.nacic.gov/pubs/online/nc_trans.html


   NCIX Home


                            News and Developments

                          Products and Publications

                                   Events

                                    Links

                         Freedom Of Information Act

                                 About NCIX

                                 Contact Us

         Ribbon in remembrance of the events of September 11th 2001



                                 Search_____

                                 Go!



               National Counterintelligence inTransition 2000

   A year ago, the Secretary of Defense, Director of the Federal Bureau of
   Investigation, and the Director of Central Intelligence established a
   Special Review Process to examine how well the national
   counterintelligence community is positioned to meet the CI challenges
   of the 21^st Century.

   The process revealed that to effectively deal with the new CI threat
   environment and the realities of a global, interconnected, information
   age, the CI community must be transposed from a largely reactive state
   to a modern, innovative program that is much more proactive.

   The National Security Council is currently coordinating a Presidential
   Decision Directive that reflects the recommendations for reform put
   forth by the review group. The hallmark of the new National CI System
   will be its interaction with policymakers and the private sector on CI
   issues, ensuring that the CI community is informed by and contributes
   to the implementation of national policies and strategies.

   As envisioned, responsibility for national counterintelligence will be
   vested in a Board of Directors, chaired by the Director, FBI, and
   composed of the Deputy Secretary of Defense, the Deputy Director of
   Central Intelligence, and a senior representative from the Department
   of Justice. The centerpiece of the national CI system will be the
   National Counterintelligence Executive and a supporting organization
   that will carry out the below-listed functions as well as absorb many
   of the functions currently performed by the National
   Counterintelligence Center.

   On behalf of the Board, the Executive will serve as the leader of
   national-level CI. The principal activities of the successor
   organization will include identifying those critical national assets
   that must be protected by CI; formulating a National CI Strategy;
   overseeing and coordinating the production of strategic CI analysis;
   evaluating and assisting in the integration of CI budget and resource
   plans of the community, communicating to the Board the adequacy of
   these plans to meet the objectives and priorities of the National CI
   Strategy; evaluating the communitys effectiveness in implementing the
   Strategy; identifying national CI collection gaps; and coordinating
   other national-level CI activities.

   Updates on the progress of the creation of the new National CI System,
   the selection and appointment of the National CI Executive, and the
   stand-up of the supporting organization will be disseminated as they
   become available.


     Employment

               Notification Service

                                    Privacy Notice
