http://sdp.cit.nih.gov/information/advisory.asp


   Skip Over Navigation Links
   Center for Information Technology Software Distribution Project
     Antivirus Home Page
   Contact Us
   Questions or Comments
   Disclaimers

      Information
   [1x1space.gif]
                  SDP Description
                  Contact Lookup
                  OEM Support
                  (Logon Required)
                  SPD Advisory Committee
      Open Agreements
   [1x1space.gif]
                  Absolute Description
                  Adobe Description
                  BindView Description
                  Macromedia Description
      Catalogs
   [1x1space.gif]
                  Abobe Catalog
                  Macromedia Catalog
      Software
   [1x1space.gif]
                  Downloads



   SDP Advisory Committee

   NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH
   CENTER FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
   SOFTWARE DISTRIBUTION PROJECT ADVISORY COMMITTEE
   CHARTER

   Purpose
   The NIH Software Distribution Project Advisory Committee (SDPAC) was
   established by the NIH Information Technology Management Committee
   (ITMC) upon the advice of the SDP IT Investment Review Board (ITIRB),
   and at the request of the SDP Program Manager (PM). The SDPAC is an
   advisory group to the SDP PM on software licensing requirements and
   issues, as they impact the mission of the NIH and its Institutes and
   Centers (ICs). The SDPAC's purpose is to (1) review NIH and IC software
   license and technical support requirements, (2) make recommendations on
   acquisition of volume software licenses and support, (3) review SDP
   programmatic approach and provide advice to the PM regarding specific
   IC requirements, and (4) provide program representation to the ICs, and
   the ITMC.

   Background
   The July 2000 report of the SDP ITIRB made 6 specific recommendations,
   including the creation of the SDPAC. The ITIRB, composed of ITMC
   representatives, was appointed to develop specific recommendations
   designed to ensure that the SDP provides an acceptable, mission-related
   function as well as an acceptable return on investment.

   Function
   As an advisory group to the SDP PM, the SDPAC will:
    1. Advise the PM on:
         A. IC functional requirements for software licenses and support;
         B. the priority of SDP projects in support of the NIH and IC
            Missions;
         C. proposed funding plans and financial strategies in the
            operation of NIH SDP;
         D. development of, and adherence to IT standards, policies, and
            procedures for NIH;
    2. Communicate information about the SDPAC's activities to the NIH
       community; and
    3. Assist the SDP ITIRB in its continued fiscal review of the SDP.

   Structure
   Membership: The SDPAC will be composed of
    1. Chair: The Chair is selected annually by a majority vote of the
       SDPAC members.
    2. Senior and Operational level IT representatives in the following
       areas:
          + Administrative
          + Scientific
          + Clinical
          + Extramural
       Members may provide representation from multiple areas for an IC.
    3. Program Manager, NIH SDP: The Program Manager is a non-voting
       member

   Membership criteria: SDPAC members are senior and operational level
   managers who will provide an IC perspective on software licensing
   issues. The ICs ITMC representatives will select members. Membership
   will be limited to principals only, without designation of alternates.
   However, observing members may attend when the principal is unable to.
   Observing members may participate in discussion only after requesting,
   and receiving recognition of the Chair. Under no circumstance may an
   observing member participate in SDPAC voting.

   Quorum: A quorum for conducting business and making recommendations
   will consist of a simple majority of principal members.

   Terms: The ITMC will be asked to review membership annually. Member may
   serve for up to 3 consecutive terms.

   Roles and Responsibilities
   Chair:
   1) Conduct SDPAC meetings
   2) Report SDPAC recommendations to the ITMC and senior IC management
   officials

   Members:
   1) Attend meetings as scheduled and participate in deliberations
   2) Determine when formal reports are to be provided to the ITMC.

   Meetings
   The SDPAC will meet on a quarterly basis. The Chair may also call
   meetings at other times, as needed. Meeting participation will be
   limited to principal or observing members and, at the Chair's
   discretion, to selected attendees or guests.

   SDPAC members will review this charter annually to ensure that it
   continues to define an appropriate mission and effective structure for
   advising the SDP PM. This charter can be modified through a majority
   vote of the SDP principals.

   Contact TASC for assistance or call
   301.59.Go.CIT (V) 301.496.8294 (TDD)

   Questions or Comments | Disclaimers
   National Institutes of Health Center for Information Technology
   National Institutes of Health
   Bethesda, Maryland 20892
   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
   -
