http://engdir.msfc.nasa.gov/ed40.html

                   NASA - Marshall Space Flight Center, Huntsville AL


      ED Header

   begin navigation
   ED01 " "
   " "      " "
   ED10 " "
   " "
   ED20 " "
   " "
   ED30 " "
   " "
   ED40 " "
   " "
   NCAM " "
   " "
   SEE  " "
   " "
   STDS " "
   " "
   Home " "
   " "



   Engineering Systems Department
   left line " " right line

   The Engineering Systems Department performs systems-related engineering
   services and support functions for a variety of customers across a
   broad range of NASA programs and projects. Primary functions include
   systems engineering support; configuration and data management; and
   environments definition and analysis.

   The Department conducts system-level analyses in a number of discipline
   areas, including Systems Modeling and Simulations; Radio Frequency (RF)
   Communications System Analysis; Supportability and Logistics
   Engineering; Mass Properties; Kinematics Analysis; Integrated
   Schematics Development; and Human Engineering & Analysis.

   In collaboration with the U.S. Army Aviation and Missile Command, the
   Department has developed the Army-NASA Virtual Innovations Laboratory
   (ANVIL), a research and development facility that applies virtual
   reality technologies to human modeling and design
   visualization/analysis. Virtual reality provides an impressive human
   interface to complex simulations allowing evaluators to interact with
   design concepts (and with each other) in novel ways.

   The Department provides comprehensive configuration and data management
   (CDM) services, including policy and procedures development, data
   requirements management, engineering drawing checking, documentation
   release functions, and automated CDM system development/maintenance.
   Direct CDM support is provided to programs and projects to ensure
   Configuration Items have been through a systematic process of
   identification, control, tracking, and verification.

   A variety of environments definition, analysis, and modeling functions
   are performed in the areas of electromagnetic environmental effects
   (including electromagnetic interference testing); space environments;
   and terrestrial/planetary environments. These functions encompass a
   multitude of engineering analyses and activities required to assure the
   successful operation of spacecraft and payloads in these different
   environments.

   The Department also manages the NASA Technical Standards Program for
   the agency, and leads Advanced Engineering Initiative and Intelligent
   Synthesis Environment activities for MSFC.

Links to ED40 Department Website:

   http://esd.msfc.nasa.gov/

Links to ED 40 Group Level Websites:

    Engineering Services, ED41
    Systems Engineering Support, ED42
    Configuration & Data Mgt, ED43
    Environments, ED44

   ED graphic identifier



                                               Virtual Reality
                                       Electronmagnetic Compatibility
                                       Configuration & Data Managemenr
