http://www.cde.ca.gov/psaa/api/yeartwo/base/apigdeb.pdf

   P a r e n t G u i d e J a n u a r y 2 0 0 1 t o t h e 2000 Pub ct lic A
   Schools Similar Schools Ranks Accountability b a s e d o n t h e
   Academic Performance Index In January 2001, public schools throughout
   California Similar Schools Ranks received their second Academic
   Performance Index (API) Base reports. The API is the cornerstone of the
   Public The API reports include a "similar schools rank." This Schools
   Accountability Act (PSAA) of 1999. It measures the information shows
   where a school ranks on a scale of 110, academic performance and
   progress of schools. Annual compared with 100 other schools with
   similar demographic growth targets for future academic improvement are
   deter- characteristics. California public schools serve students with
   mined for schools based on the API. Schools that reach their many
   different backgrounds and needs. As a result, schools annual targets
   will be rewarded. Schools that do not meet face different educational
   challenges. The similar schools ranks their targets will be eligible
   for interventions or subject to for 2000 allow schools to look at their
   academic performance sanctions. compared to other schools with some of
   the same opportuni- ties and challenges. The comparison of similar
   schools is 2000 API Base Reports required by the PSAA and provides
   additional information about schools beyond that provided by APIs and
   statewide The API Base for the 20002001 API Reporting Cycle was ranks.
   Similar schools ranks are not used to establish eligibility based on
   results of the Stanford 9 achievement test, given in for awards or
   interventions provided by the PSAA. spring 2000 as part of the state's
   Standardized Testing and Reporting (STAR) program. The 2000 API Base
   report for Several school demographic characteristics form the basis
   for each school shows: determining the similar schools comparisons.
   Page 2 of this * 2000 API Base score guide provides a complete listing
   of the demographic charac- * 2000 statewide rank teristics used. * 2000
   rank compared to 100 other schools with similar demographic
   characteristics (similar schools ranks) Looking Ahead - * 20002001 API
   growth target for the school and for significant groups of students in
   the school The 20002001 API Growth Report * School demographic
   characteristics In the fall of 2001, schools will receive their
   20002001 The API score is on a scale of 2001000. The statewide and API
   Growth reports. These reports will include the similar schools ranks
   are on a scale of 110. The API reports following information for each
   school: can be accessed through the California Department of Education
   (CDE) website at http://api.cde.ca.gov. * 20002001 school growth (2001
   API Growth score minus 2000 API Base score) * 20002001 growth for
   significant groups of students in the school * information on whether
   growth targets were met 1 Prepared by the Policy and Evaluation
   Division, California Department of Education Questions and Answers
   about the Similar Schools Ranks in the 2000 API Report What is the
   PSAA? annually rank all public schools in California based on the The
   PSAA is designed to measure the academic improvement API. The similar
   schools rank compares a school's academic of California public schools,
   reward those schools that meet achievement on the API with other
   schools that have similar their improvement goals, and help those
   schools that do not demographic characteristics. meet their goals. A
   key part of the PSAA is the Academic Performance Index (API) report.
   Schools received their 2000 What is the purpose of comparing similar
   API Base reports in January 2001. schools in the API report? California
   public schools serve groups of students with What is the API? different
   backgrounds and needs. As a result, schools face The API measures the
   performance and progress of a school. It different educational
   challenges and opportunities. For this is a numeric index or scale that
   ranges from a low of 200 to a reason, it is helpful to provide
   information about a school's high of 1000. The state has set 800 as the
   API score that academic achievement as it compares to similar schools.
   schools should strive to meet. Schools that fall short of the target
   will be required to meet annual growth targets until the How are the
   similar schools ranks used? statewide target of 800 is reached. Schools
   that already meet or The similar schools ranks can be used in at least
   two ways. exceed the statewide target of 800 should continue working to
   First, schools can use this information as a reference point for
   improve the academic performance of all their students. judging their
   academic achievement against other schools facing similar challenges.
   Second, schools may improve their What are the similar schools ranks?
   academic performance by studying what similar schools with The Public
   Schools Accountability Act (PSAA) of 1999 higher rankings are doing.
   Similar schools ranks are not used [Education Code Section 52056(a)]
   requires the state to in any way as the basis for awards. Demographic
   Characteristics Used to Identify Similar Schools The PSAA law requires
   that the following school demographic characteristics, or factors, be
   used to identify the similar schools: School Demographic
   Characteristics How Characteristics Are Determined Pupil mobility % of
   students who first attended the school in the current year Pupil
   ethnicity % of students in the school in each of these ethnic
   categories: * American Indian or Alaska Native * Hispanic or Latino *
   Asian * African American not Hispanic * Pacific Islander * White not
   Hispanic * Filipino Pupil socioeconomic status Average of all parent
   educational level responses for the school % of students in the school
   that participated in the free or reduced price lunch program Percentage
   of teachers who are fully % of teachers in the school who are fully
   credentialed credentialed Percentage of teachers who hold emergency %
   of teachers in the school who hold emergency permits credentials
   Percentage of pupils who are English language % of students in the
   school who are classified as English language learners learners Average
   class size per grade level Average class size at the school for each
   grade level: * K3 * 46 * Core academic courses in departmentalized
   programs Whether the schools operate multi-track year- Schools are
   categorized as either operating or not operating multi-track year-
   round educational programs round educational programs 2 Pub ct lic A
   Schools Accountability What sources were used to collect the demo- How
   can I find out which schools are in the graphic data for the 2000
   similar schools comparison group for my student's school? ranks? The
   list of the 100 schools included in each school's similar The
   demographic data for the similar schools ranks came from schools
   comparison group can be accessed through the CDE several sources,
   including the 2000 administration of the web site at
   http://api.cde.ca.gov. Standardized Testing and Reporting (STAR)
   program, the 1999 California Basic Educational Data System (CBEDS) and
   Another school in the district has similar stu- the 2000 STAR
   Apportionment Information Report. dents and almost exactly the same API
   score but a different "similar schools" rank. How can How were the 2000
   similar schools ranks that be? calculated? Even if schools appear quite
   similar, they may differ with Several steps were used to calculate the
   2000 similar schools respect to some measured characteristics. Small
   differences in ranks. First, schools were divided into grade level
   categories two school's demographic characteristics and SCIs can result
   (elementary, middle, and high schools). Then, a School in very
   different groups of similar schools. If one school's Characteristics
   Index (SCI), or composite of the school's comparison group has a
   different range of API scores than the demographic characteristics, was
   calculated for each school. other school, the two schools' ranks may
   differ. Next, a comparison group of 100 similar schools was formed,
   based on similar SCIs. Last, the similar schools rank for each Will the
   comparison group for my student's school was generated. This ranking
   was based on the school's school remain the same from year to year? API
   compared with the APIs of other similar schools in the In January 2001,
   your school received a 2000 similar schools comparison group. rank
   which compared the school's 2000 API level to a group of 100 similar
   schools. What is the SCI and how is it calculated? The SCI combines the
   demographic characteristics of a school. In January 2002, your school
   will receive a 2001 similar It is calculated through a statistical
   procedure that produces a schools rank which will compare its 2001 API
   level to a new single index based on all of the factors included.
   Schools with group of 100 similar schools. SCIs that are close in
   numerical value face similar educational challenges and opportunities.
   If our school's API score remains the same next year, will its
   statewide rank be the same as Do all 100 schools in the same similar
   schools 2000? rank have the same demographic Your rank will not
   necessarily be the same next year, even if characteristics? your API
   score remains the same. Your rank may go up or Each school is unique;
   therefore, it is impossible to find similar down, depending on how the
   rest of the schools in the state schools that match in every way. In
   order to form large enough perform. This is because your statewide rank
   is a comparison groups of similar schools for meaningful ranks, the
   procedure with other schools in the state. used for each SCI allows for
   some differences between schools. How is a school's socioeconomic
   status How were the similar schools ranks determined measured? for
   2000? Socioeconomic status is based on the school's average parent A
   comparison group for each school was formed by placing the education
   level and percent of student participation in the free school's SCI as
   the median or mid-point (middle) and taking or reduced price lunch
   program. The source for parent the 50 schools with SCIs just above and
   the 50 just below. The education level and free or reduced price lunch
   program is the 100 schools in the comparison group were sorted
   according to demographics section of the STAR answer document. their
   2000 API and divided into 10 equal sized groups (deciles). The API of
   the school was then compared to the APIs of the schools in its group.
   The school was assigned a decile rank based on this comparison, and
   that is the rank shown on the report. 3 Pub ct lic A Schools
   Accountability Is a school penalized in any way if the parent How can
   the similar schools rank for my educational level is not reported for
   all stu- student's school be raised? dents? The SCI, from which the
   group of similar schools is deter- Although there is no penalty for not
   providing parent educa- mined, is designed to reflect demographic
   characteristics not tional levels, a school should do its best to
   obtain complete under a school's control. The school should focus on
   ways to information so that its similar schools rank can be as accurate
   raise its API by improving instruction and student achieve- as
   possible. Reliable parent educational level information is ment. These
   efforts will help improve the academic growth of helpful in producing
   the most appropriate similar schools the school and its API. group for
   your school. Where can parents go for more information? How can
   elementary school children, as young Parents should direct their
   questions about the API or the as second graders, be expected to report
   their PSAA or plans for improving the school's academic perfor-
   parents' educational level? mance to the principal or other school
   administrators. Schools Parent educational level information is
   provided by the school also will be asking parents to become actively
   involved in the and district. The method of collecting these data
   varies across improvement process. Further information about the PSAA
   the state, but schools and districts should ensure that the and API can
   be accessed through the CDE website at http:// information is as
   accurate as possible. Young children are not www.cde.ca.gov/psaa.
   expected to provide this information unassisted. The similar schools
   rank for my student's school is higher (about the same, lower) than its
   state- wide rank. How should that be interpreted? These ranks are
   calculated in completely different ways and are not related. The
   statewide API rank compares your school to many schools statewide. The
   similar schools rank compares your school to 100 schools like yours.
   Description of Similar Schools Ranks The similar schools ranks compare
   an individual school's API to the 100 schools in its comparison group.
   Schools are ranked in ten equal groups (deciles) from the lowest (one)
   to the highest (ten). A description of the similar schools ranks
   follows: Rank Description This school's API is: 9 or 10 Well above
   average for elementary, middle, or high schools with similar
   characteristics 7 or 8 Above average for elementary, middle, or high
   schools with similar characteristics 5 or 6 About average for
   elementary, middle, or high schools with similar characteristics 3 or 4
   Below average for elementary, middle, or high schools with similar
   characteristics 1 or 2 Well below average for elementary, middle, or
   high schools with similar characteristics 4
