http://baltimore.fbi.gov/contact/fo/balt/organize.htm

                 Organized Crime/Drug Investigation Program

   The Baltimore Division of the FBI conducts investigations involving
   multi-jurisdictional, international criminal organizations and criminal
   enterprises that are involved in traditional and non-traditional
   organized crime and drug trafficking. These investigations are
   long-term, complex investigations that utilize the most sophisticated
   and innovative operations. These efforts culminate in developing a
   prosecutable case against individuals and organizations who engage in
   some of the most serious criminal offenses threatening our communities.

   The FBI views organized crime groups and drug trafficking organizations
   as criminal enterprises or criminal businesses. Investigative efforts
   are taken to identify any and all profits and assets from the criminal
   enterprise and seize them. If the profits of the criminal enterprise
   can be eliminated the criminal enterprise may be hurt. The FBI also
   identifies the leaders and hierarchy of a criminal organization and
   target them for intense investigation. If the leader of a criminal
   enterprise can be eliminated the criminal organization will become
   leader-less and will be vulnerable.

                        ORGANIZED CRIME (OC) PROGRAM

   The FBI Baltimore's Organized Crime program targets organizations
   involved in traditional and non-traditional organized crime activities.
   These activities would include murder, burglary, arson, loan-sharking,
   extortion, bribery, illegal gambling, and illegal possession of stolen
   interstate property. Traditional organized crime groups would include
   groups such as La Costra Nostra (LCN). Non-traditional organized crime
   groups would include Russian, Asian, and Nigerian groups. FBI Baltimore
   has centered recent organized crime investigations on Russian, Asian,
   and Greek organized crime groups that are operating within the FBI
   Baltimore Division.

                                DRUG PROGRAM

   The FBI National Strategy in Drug investigations identifies major drug
   problems facing the United States and develops proactive programs that
   seek to diminish the most significant drug trafficking threats. The FBI
   Baltimore conducts Drug investigations that also identify the most
   significant drug trafficking threats to communities in the Baltimore
   Division. The goal of these Drug investigations is to disrupt and
   dismantle these drug trafficking organizations.. The Baltimore Drug
   program coordinates its investigative efforts with other local, state,
   and federal investigative agencies. Many Drug investigations are
   conducted through task forces such as the Organized Crime Drug
   Enforcement Task Force (OCDETF), and the High Intensity Drug
   Trafficking Area Task Force (HIDTA).

   [Regional Resident Agencies] [Domestic Terrorism Program] [Civil Rights
                    Program] [White Collar Crime Program]

      [Environmental Crimes] [Violent Crimes & Major Offenders Program]
                   [National Foreign Intelligence Program]

    [Organized Crime and Drug Investigations] [Applicant Program & Career
                 Opportunities] [Community Outreach Program]

                            [Baltimore Home Page]
