http://www.ecs.noaa.gov/privacystmt.htm

   [USEMAP:ECStextPageTop1.gif]
   [USEMAP:textPageTop2.gif]












     Facilities Office
     FIMS Web Site


     [spacer.gif]
     NOAA ECS Web Site Privacy Statement

     This statement establishes how NOAA ECS will use information we gather
     about you from your visit to our website. The privacy of our customers
     is of utmost importance to us.

     If you visit a NOAA ECS site...

     1. To read or download information:

     We may collect and store information for statistical purposes. For
     example, we may count the number of visitors to the different sections
     of our site to help us make them more useful to visitors. Similar
     information is gathered for anonymous ftp, remote account login, or for
     other comparable types of connections.

     2. To send us an E-mail:

     By sending us an electronic mail message, you may be sending us
     personal information (e.g., name, address, E-mail address), as in an
     official FOIA request. We may store the name and address of the
     requester in order to respond to the request or to otherwise resolve
     the subject matter of your E-mail.

     3. To register:

     Other information which may be collected at these sites through
     questionnaires, feedback forms, or other means, enable us to determine
     a visitor's interests, with the goal of providing better service to our
     customers.

     We want to be very clear: regardless of the information being
     transmitted to NOAA ECS, we will protect all such information
     consistent with applicable law.

     4. Cookies:

     This site uses no "cookies."

     NOAA ECS Website Disclaimer Statement

     Thank you for visiting this NOAA ECS web site. NOAA ECS may provide
     links to web pages which are not part of the NOAA ECS web family. These
     sites are not under NOAA ECS control, and NOAA ECS is not responsible
     for the information or links you may find there. NOAA ECS is providing
     these links only as a convenience. The presence of these links on any
     NOAA ECS website is not intended to imply NOAA ECS endorsement of that
     site, but to provide a convenient link to relevant sites which are
     managed by other organizations, companies, or individuals.
     The pages on this website have been reviewed and revised to be
     accessible to individuals with disabilities in accordance with
     provisions of Section 508 of the Workforce Investment Act and the
     Americans with Disabilities Act. If you are having a problem accessing
     a NOAA ECS website please let us know and we will work to ensure
     accessibility. If you have any difficulty viewing any page with
     adaptive technology, use the feedback form to let us know.



   [textPageBottom.gif]

   [awmmenupath.gif]
