http://www.doi.gov/news/01072002.html

                       U.S. Department of the Interior

                              [news_header.jpg]


   Office of the Secretary
                                       Contact: Mark Pfeifle

   For Immediate Release:
                                   202-208-6416

   January 4, 2002


                  Secretary Norton Appoints Paul Hoffman as

         Deputy Assistant Secretary for Fish and Wildlife and Parks


   (WASHINGTON) – Interior Secretary Gale Norton today appointed Paul
   Hoffman, a life-long outdoorsman, a skilled consensus-builder and the
   executive director of the Cody Country Chamber of Commerce in Cody,
   Wyoming, to be deputy assistant secretary of the Interior for fish and
   wildlife and parks. In this position, Hoffman will help oversee two
   Interior agencies, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the National
   Park Service


   “Paul Hoffman has a long and impressive record as a Wyoming community
   leader and conservationist,” Norton said. “He is an avid outdoorsman
   who has worked to improve the conservation and the recreational
   benefits of parks and other natural areas in Wyoming.”


   Hoffman joined the Cody Country Chamber of Commerce in 1990 after
   working as state director for then-U.S. Representative Dick Cheney from
   1985 to 1989. During that time, he helped initiate the bipartisan
   effort to designate Clarks Fork of the Yellowstone River as Wyoming’s
   first wild and scenic river.


   In 1984, Hoffman co-founded the Park County Resouce Council, now known
   as the Northwest Wyoming Resouce Council, a grassroots group dedicated
   to protecting the environment of Northwest Wyoming, including
   Yellowstone National Park.


   Hoffman lives in Cody with his wife, Lisa Ann, a daughter, Desiree, and
   a son, Fritz. He recieved a bachelor degree in economics and biology at
   the University of California at San Diego, Revelle College. He is an
   avid hunter, angler, horseman and skier.


   Craig Manson, a California Superior Court judge and former general
   counsel of the California Department of Fish and Game, has been
   nominated to be assistant secretary of fish and wildlife and parks and
   is awaiting Senate confirmation. Hoffman will not require Senate
   confirmation.


                                 – DOI –



    You can get to the Department of the Interior from here

    You can also view the index of press releases

    U.S. Department of the Interior, Washington, DC, USA
