http://wwwflag.wr.usgs.gov/USGSFlag/menu/new.html

   USGS

   There is a non-tables version of this page.

   USGS National Biology Geology Mapping Water Flagstaff Field Center Ask
   USGS Search USGS

   Return to Flagstaff Main Page
             U. S. Geological Survey
   Flagstaff Field Center


   What's New Index Write Us People Other Sites



   Space Science and Mission Support
   Water
   Earth Geology
   Biological Resources
   Grand Canyon Monitoring and Research Center

   Field Center Overview
   Education and Outreach
   Products, Software and Data
   Images
   sandbar

What's New

   sandbar

   August 30, 2001 Updated
          Planetary Nomenclature - The names of features (craters,
          mountains, valleys, etc.) on many of the other bodies in the
          solar system as approved by the International Astronomical
          Union.

   July 27, 2001 new in yellow starburst
          San Francisco Volcanic Field. This Fact Sheet provides an
          overview of the history of the volcanic field and the basic
          volcano types. It also includes a really nice DEM of the entire
          volcanic field which stretches from Williams across Flagstaff
          and east beyond Sunset Crater to Grand Falls.

   July 20, 2001 new in yellow starburst
          Laboratory Spectroscopy of Dust Coatings and Shocked Minerals
          This page includes research results and data produced as part of
          a NASA-funded project to explore the spectra of experimentally
          shocked minerals and dust coatings on rock substrates.

   May 31, 2001
          Remote Sensing Applications to Coral Reef Environments - Whether
          you're interested in coral reef research, remote sensing, image
          processing, or just want to see beautiful imagery of the coast
          of Moloka'i, come visit our site.

   May 31, 2001
          MAP-A-PLANET - Create custom-made image maps of Mars, Earth's
          Moon, Venus, or Jupiter's Moon Callisto.

   May 18, 2001
          Lunar Orbiter Digitization Project - This site presents the
          results of a Pilot Project to digitize and process Lunar Orbiter
          data.

   May 18, 2001 Updated
          Planetary Nomenclature - The names of features (craters,
          mountains, valleys, etc.) on many of the other bodies in the
          solar system as approved by the International Astronomical
          Union.

   April 25, 2001 Updated
          Jupiter Satellites - Voyager and Galileo Global Mosaics -
          Controlled mosaics of four of the Jovian satellites now using
          Galileo data as well as Voyager I and Voyager II data. Developed
          for use by the Galileo project.

   March 26, 2001
          U.S.G.S. Planetary GIS Web Server - Planetary Interactive
          G.I.S.-on-the-Web Analyzable Database PIGWAD - Layers in Motion

   What's New 1998
          The What's New page for the year of 1998.

   What's New 1997
          The What's New page for the year of 1997.

   What's New 1996
          The What's New page for the year of 1996.

   sandbar
   URL: http://wwwflag.wr.usgs.gov/USGSFlag/menu/new.html .


    United States Geological Survey, 2255 N Gemini Drive, Flagstaff,
    Arizona 86001


   Contact: (webmaster@flagmail.wr.usgs.gov)
   Last updated: September 12, 2001
   USGS Accessibility
   USGS Privacy Statement
   FirstGov: Your first click to the U.S. Goverment
