http://www.irs.ustreas.gov/irs/news/0,,i1%3d42%26articleId%3d78857,00.html

                Internal Revenue Service The Digital Daily
         Skip past Top Nav Bar Home |   Tax Stats  |   About IRS  |
    Careers  |   FOIA  |   The Newsroom  |   Accessibility  |   Site Map
                           |   Español  |   Help


                      Search
                          ______________ Go
                      Forms Finder
                          ______________ Go
                            Search Help


                      Contents
                      Skip past Left Nav Bar What's Hot
                      News Releases
                      IRS - The Basics
                      IRS Guidance
                      Media Contacts
                      Facts & Figures
                      Problem Alerts
                      Graphic Center
                      Around the Nation
                      e-News Service

                      Resources
                                       e-file
                      Forms and Publications
                      Where to File
                      Contact My Local Office
                      FAQs
                      Taxpayer Advocate

                      Topics
                      Current Filing Season Tips
                      Scams / Consumer Alerts
                      Criminal Investigations
                      IRS Modernization
                      Tax Shelters
                      Disaster Relief
                      Advance Payment Info
                      Freedom of Information


                             Home  > The Newsroom


                         The Newsroom [1x1-grey.gif]



   e-file Options



                           2002 IRS E-FILE OPTIONS
                 FOR FILING AND PAYING TAXES ELECTRONICALLY

   “Options” is the keyword for IRS e-file in 2002  – options for filing,
   options for paying and options for getting a refund quickly. An
   ever-expanding number of Americans are choosing e-file options that let
   them easily file a tax return, pay a balance due, get an extension of
   time to file or make estimated tax payments without sending any paper
   to the Internal Revenue Service.

   More than 40 million Americans chose IRS e-file options in 2001 -- 13.6
   percent more than the year before.  The IRS expects more than 46
   million e-filers in 2002, as more and more taxpayers who file through a
   computer or a telephone look for these benefits:
     * Faster refunds: Direct Deposit can speed refunds to e-filers in as
       few as 10 days.  Most e-file refunds are issued and mailed within
       three weeks.
     * More accurate returns: IRS computers quickly and automatically
       check for errors or other missing information, making e-filed
       returns more accurate and reducing the chance of getting an error
       letter from the IRS.
     * Quick electronic confirmation: Computer e-filers receive an
       acknowledgment that the IRS has received their returns.  Callers
       using TeleFile receive a confirmation number while they’re still on
       the phone, letting them know that the TeleFile system has accepted
       their return.
     * Delete the Paperwork -- Electronic signatures: Taxpayers can create
       their own Personal Identification Number (PIN) and file a
       completely paperless return using their tax preparation software or
       tax professional.  There is nothing to mail to the IRS.
     * Easy payment options: E-filers with a balance due can schedule an
       electronic funds withdrawal from their bank account, or pay with a
       credit card.
     * Federal/State e-filing: Taxpayers in 37 states and the District of
       Columbia can e-file their federal and state tax returns in one
       transmission to the IRS.  The IRS forwards the state data to the
       appropriate state tax agency.  In 2001, more than 15.2 million
       taxpayers filed federal-state electronic returns in Alabama,
       Arizona, Arkansas, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Georgia,
       Hawaii, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky,
       Louisiana, Maryland, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana,
       Nebraska, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, North
       Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South
       Carolina, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, West Virginia, Wisconsin and the
       District of Columbia.

   E-FILE OPTIONS

   Using an Authorized Provider

   Computer filing through an authorized provider has been the core of
   e-filing since its debut in 1986. Using this method, tax professionals
   send clients’ returns electronically to the IRS.  Some prepare their
   client’s return and send them, others take returns prepared by their
   clients, enter the data, then send it to the IRS.
     * Authorized providers filed 28.9 million returns in 2001, a 14.9
       percent increase.

   Using a Personal Computer

   Taxpayers with a computer, a modem or internet access, and tax
   preparation software can e-file their tax returns from home any time,
   day or night. To do so, a taxpayer sends a completed, electronic tax
   return to a transmitter.  The transmitter converts the file to an
   IRS-approved format, and then sends the converted return file to the
   IRS.  Within 48 hours, the IRS notifies the taxpayer through the
   transmitter whether or not the return is accepted.
     * In 2001, more than 6.8 million taxpayers – an increase of 36
       percent – e-filed their returns from home.

   The IRS Web site at www.irs.gov has a list of companies offering online
   filing software, as well as direct links to firms with low- or no-cost
   e-filing options.

   E-Filing By Phone

   For those who are eligible, TeleFile, the IRS file-by-phone system, is
   the easiest way to file a return.
     * In 2001, 4.4 million people used TeleFile instead of filling out
       Form 1040EZ.

   Potentially eligible TeleFile users get a special tax package from the
   IRS that invites them to file their taxes quickly and easily by phone.
   Instead of tax forms, the package has a worksheet that, when completed,
   becomes the taxpayer’s TeleFile Tax Record.  This record includes a
   Customer Service Number that serves as an electronic signature.  The
   package also contains a checklist the taxpayer uses to ensure their
   eligibility.  Then, all the taxpayer does is fill out the worksheet
   call the toll-free number, and follow the step-by-step instructions.

   TeleFilers can take advantage of Direct Deposit for a refund, or
   authorize an electronic funds withdrawal to pay taxes, by entering
   their checking or savings account number.  Refunds arrive in half the
   time it takes for a paper return.  For an electronic funds withdrawal,
   the taxpayer decides when the money is taken from their account, so
   they can file their return early and pay later by the April 15, 2002,
   deadline.

   Extension of Time to File by Phone

   Anyone who filed a tax return last year can use the phone to request an
   automatic extension of time – to August 15, 2002 – to file his or her
   tax return.  This system will operate from March 1 to April 15, at
   1-888-796-1074.  Form 4868, Application for Automatic Extension of Time
   To File U.S. Individual Income Tax Return, has details on required
   information and explains how to pay a balance by phone.

   Telephone filers get a confirmation number at the conclusion of their
   call, telling them that their return or extension request has been
   accepted.

   Federal/State TeleFile: Taxpayers in seven states can e-file both their
   federal and state returns with a single phone call to the IRS TeleFile
   number.  Oregon, West Virginia and Maryland, are new this year, joining
   Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky and Oklahoma. Only taxpayers who receive
   both federal and state TeleFile packages can use the combined TeleFile
   system.
     * In 2001, 219,805 taxpayers filed their state and federal tax
       returns with a single phone call.

   ELECTRONIC SIGNATURES – SELF-SELECT PERSONAL IDENTIFICATION NUMBERS

   Paperless filing using a self-selected personal identification number,
   or PIN, is easy and it’s available to most taxpayers who file
   electronically. For those who use a self-select PIN, there's nothing to
   sign and nothing to mail – not even Forms W-2. Paperless filing is
   available to those who prepare their own returns using tax preparation
   software or those who use a tax professional.  On a joint return, two
   PINs are required, acting as electronic signatures for both people.

   The self-select PIN program started in 2001.

   Using a personal computer: Using tax preparation software, an income
   tax return is completed, and when prompted, the taxpayer enters a
   five-digit PIN, that serves as an electronic signature.  The taxpayer
   can chose any combination of five numbers except five zeros.  To
   authenticate the taxpayer’s identity, the software asks for the
   taxpayer’s Adjusted Gross Income (AGI) from last year’s tax return.
   The taxpayer then enters their date of birth.  Software packages may
   vary, however, and particular packages should be consulted for more
   details about the self-select PIN.

   Using an electronic return preparer: Those using a tax professional can
   sign their return electronically by completing an e-file signature
   worksheet.  The worksheet authorizes an electronic return preparer to
   enter a taxpayer’s PIN as a signature.
     * 4,759,963 taxpayers asked their return preparers to input their
       self-select PIN in 2001.
     * 4,293,085 taxpayers used self-select PINs using their personal
       computer in 2001.

   E-PAYMENT OPTIONS

   There are two ways to pay taxes electronically--by authorizing an
   electronic funds withdrawal from a checking or savings account, or by
   using a credit card.  E-payments can be used to:


     * pay taxes owed on a 2001 income tax return;
     * to pay projected tax due when requesting an automatic extension of
       time to file; or
     * to pay an estimated tax payment for Tax Year 2002 when e-filing a
       return.

   The IRS has entered into partnerships with private industry, including
   credit card processors and tax preparation software developers, to make
   these electronic payment options available.
     * More than 640,000 people paid their federal taxes by electronic
       funds withdrawal or credit card during 2001.

   Electronic Funds Withdrawal

   Electronic funds withdrawal is free and the taxpayer decides when the
   tax payment is withdrawn from their account. Electronic funds
   withdrawal is only available to those who e-file, either by computer or
   by phone. A taxpayer may file early and schedule the withdrawal as late
   as April 15, 2002. For returns filed after April 15, the payment is
   effective on the filing date.

   A 2002 estimated tax payment can be made through electronic funds
   withdrawal only when filing a 2001 tax return via computer, whether or
   not there is a balance due on the return. The estimated tax payment may
   be the one due in April, June or September. Only one estimated tax
   payment can be made through electronic funds withdrawal. This payment
   cannot be made by phone.
     * 363,602 taxpayers paid their taxes through electronic funds
       withdrawal, an increase of 53 percent.

   Credit Card Payments

   Taxpayers can make credit card payments through tax software, by phone,
   or via the Internet
     * In 2001, 284,811 taxpayers paid by credit card, an increase of 31
       percent.

   The IRS does not set or collect any fees for credit card payments, but
   the private sector companies the IRS has authorized to process these
   payments do impose convenience fees. The tax payment sent to the U.S.
   Treasury and the convenience fee is listed separately on the
   cardholder's credit card statement.

   Some tax software developers offer integrated e-file and e-pay
   combinations for those who want to pay a balance due with a credit
   card. The software transmits both the electronic tax return and the
   credit card information to the company, which forwards the tax data to
   the IRS and the credit card data to a payment processor.

   The IRS has authorized two companies to accept credit card charges from
   both electronic and paper filers: Official Payments Corporation and
   PhoneCharge, Inc. Each company has its own fee schedule and each offers
   both phone and Internet payment services. Anyone may use these services
   to charge taxes to an American Express, Discover Card, or MasterCard
   account. A person can file early and wait until April to make the
   credit card charge.

   The "e-file" section of the IRS Web site  – www.irs.gov   – has more
   information about IRS e-file, the self-select PIN, private sector
   partnerships and electronic payments.

        IRS Privacy and Security Policy | Contact Us | ©2001 IRS.gov
