http://spb1.spb.ca.gov/spblaw/mcginnis.pdf

   Department of Health Services v. Superior Court of Sacramento County,
   No. C034163 (Cal.App. Dist.3 11/29/2001) IN THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE
   STATE OF CALIFORNIA THIRD APPELLATE DISTRICT (Sacramento) No. C034163
   2001.CA.0002712 November 29, 2001 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH SERVICES,
   PETITIONER, v. THE SUPERIOR COURT OF SACRAMENTO COUNTY, RESPONDENT;
   THERESA V. MCGINNIS, REAL PARTY IN INTEREST. ORIGINAL PROCEEDINGS in
   mandate. John R. Lewis, Judge. Petition denied. (Super.Ct.No.
   98AS02085) Bill Lockyer, Attorney General, Davis S. Chaney, Senior
   Assistant Attorney General, James M. Schiavenza, Lead Supervising
   Deputy Attorney General, Jacob Appelsmith, Supervising Deputy Attorney
   General, Barbara A.Morris and Nina Thompson, Deputies Attorney General,
   for Petitioner. No appearance for Respondent. Quackenbush &
   Quackenbush, William C.Quackenbush, Christopher H. Whelan for Real
   Party in Interest. The opinion of the court was delivered by: Hull, J.
   CERTIFIED FOR PUBLICATION *fn1 In two companion cases, Burlington
   Industries v. Ellerth (1998) 524 U.S. 742 [141 L.Ed.2d 633]
   (Burlington) and Faragher v. City of Boca Raton (1998) 524 U.S. 775
   [141 L.Ed.2d 662] (Faragher), the United States Supreme Court outlined
   a defense available to an employer sued for sexual harassment under 42
   U.S.C. § 2000e-2, subdivision (a) (hereafter Title VII). Specifically,
   if the offending conduct is committed by a supervisor, and if no
   tangible employment action is taken against the employee, the employer
   may defend against liability or damages by demonstrating that (1) the
   employer exercised reasonable care to prevent and promptly correct
   sexually harassing behavior, and (2) the plaintiff employee
   unreasonably failed to take advantage of the corrective or preventive
   opportunities provided by the employer or otherwise failed to avoid
   harm. (Burlington, supra, 524 U.S. at pp. 764-765 [141 L.Ed.2d at p.
   655]; Faragher, supra, 524 U.S. at pp. 807-808 [141 L.Ed.2d at pp.
   688-689].) 1 In this case, petitioner Department of Health Services
   (DHS) seeks a determination that the Burlington/Faragher defense is
   equally available in cases brought under the California Fair Employment
   and Housing Act (FEHA). (Gov. Code, § 12900 et seq.; further
   undesignated statutory references are to the Government Code). Because
   FEHA is distinguishable from Title VII in several critical respects, we
   conclude this defense is inapplicable to state claims. Facts and
   Procedural History Theresa McGinnis worked at DHS under the supervision
   of Cary Hall. According to McGinnis's complaint, Hall sexually harassed
   her over an extended period of time, beginning in mid-1995. Hall's
   conduct ranged from inappropriate comments to physically touching
   McGinnis. McGinnis confided in a co-worker, but did not report Hall's
   behavior to management until November 1997. When she brought the matter
   to the attention of Hall's second-line supervisor, the supervisor
   reported the allegations to the DHS, Office of Civil Rights. That
   office investigated the matter, and concluded Hall had violated the DHS
   policy against sexual harassment. Disciplinary action was commenced
   against Hall, and he ultimately retired. McGinnis filed a complaint
   against Hall and DHS that alleged causes of action for sexual
   harassment and sex discrimination. DHS moved for summary judgment or
   summary adjudication, arguing in part that the Burlington/Faragher
   defense applied. DHS had developed and circulated an employee manual
   describing its policy against sexual harassment and its complaint
   procedure. DHS noted it had also provided sexual harassment training
   programs for its employees, which McGinnis attended. Invoking the
   Burlington/Faragher defense, DHS argued that, since (1) no adverse
   action had been taken against McGinnis, (2) it had developed a
   comprehensive policy and program to prevent and combat sexual
   harassment, and (3) McGinnis had not availed herself of those measures
   in a timely manner, it should not be held vicariously liable for Hall's
   harassing conduct. McGinnis responded that the Burlington/Faragher
   defense available in Title VII cases should not be judicially grafted
   onto cases brought under FEHA. She asserted this conclusion was
   mandated by the significant differences between the two statutory
   schemes. The trial court denied DHS's motion for summary judgment, and
   denied summary adjudication on the causes of action for sexual
   harassment and sex discrimination. Noting these two claims appeared to
   be 2 duplicative, the court ruled: "[DHS] here seeks to assert an
   affirmative defense' articulated for application in Title VII actions
   by the U.S. Supreme Court in Faragher and Burlington. The parties agree
   that no California appellate decision has considered the principle
   under California law. The Supreme Court's reasoning in the respondeat
   superior setting of Title VII is persuasive. At least in the absence of
   appellate authority, the application of that same reasoning to a FEHA
   harassment claim, grounded in strict liability against the employer, is
   a policy decision best left for the legislature. Therefore, the Court
   will not apply Faragher and Burlington to this case." DHS filed a
   petition for writ of mandate, prohibition, or other appropriate relief,
   essentially seeking a declaration that the Burlington/Faragher defense
   in fact applies to FEHA cases. DHS asserts the trial court should be
   ordered to apply the elements of this defense and reconsider its denial
   of the summary judgment motion. Even if summary judgment is again
   denied, DHS asserts, the applicability of the defense will be relevant
   in devising jury instructions. We issued an alternative writ of mandate
   to determine whether the Burlington/Faragher defense applies to actions
   brought under FEHA. We consider that now. Discussion Under Title VII,
   it is an unlawful employment practice for an employer "to fail or
   refuse to hire or to discharge any individual, or otherwise to
   discriminate against any individual with respect to his compensation,
   terms, conditions, or privileges of employment, because of such
   individual's race, color, religion, sex, or national origin . . . ."
   (42 U.S.C. § 2000e-2, subd. (a)(1).) Sexual harassment is not expressly
   mentioned in the statute. However, the Guidelines of the Equal
   Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) and federal case law recognize
   sexual harassment as a type of sex discrimination and a violation of
   Title VII. (29 C.F.R. § 1604.11 (2000); Meritor Savings Bank v. Vinson
   (1986) 477 U.S. 57, 66 [91 L.Ed.2d 49, 59]). Sexual harassment may take
   one of two forms. In quid pro quo harassment cases, an employer demands
   sexual favors from an employee in exchange for a job benefit. In
   hostile work environment cases, severe or pervasive harassment so
   alters the terms or conditions of employment as to be actionable.
   (Hicks v. Gates Rubber Co. (10th Cir. 1987) 833 F.2d 1406, 1413.) In
   Burlington, supra, 524 U.S. 742 [141 L.Ed.2d 633] a hostile work
   environment case, the Supreme Court analyzed the circumstances under 3
   which an employer might be held vicariously liable for a supervisor's
   harassing conduct. The court noted that, under Title VII, the term
   employer is defined as including agents, and Congress had directed
   courts to interpret Title VII in accordance with agency principles.
   (524 U.S. at p. 754 [141 L.Ed.2d at p. 648].) The Supreme Court
   reviewed those principles, and noted that "the general rule is that
   sexual harassment by a supervisor is not conduct within the scope of
   employment." (Id. at. p. 757 [141 L.Ed.2d at p. 650.) However, the
   court continued, under the Restatement Second of Agency, section
   219(2), scope of employment is not the only test for imposing vicarious
   liability. (Burlington, supra, 524 U.S. at p. 758 [141 L.Ed.2d at p.
   650].) For example, liability may be imposed when an agent is the alter
   ego of the employer, or when the conduct violates a non-delegable duty
   of the employer, but the court found neither of these situations
   applicable in Burlington. (Id. at. p. 758 [141 L.Ed.2d at p. 651].) The
   court instead focused its attention on another basis for liability,
   that is, those instances when a servant is aided in accomplishing the
   tort by the existence of the agency relation. (Id. at pp. 758-760 [141
   L.Ed.2d at pp. 651-652.) The court held that, when a supervisor makes a
   tangible employment decision, i.e., one that "constitutes a significant
   change in employment status, such as hiring, firing, failing to
   promote, reassignment with significantly different responsibilities, or
   a decision causing a significant change in benefits" (Burlington,
   supra, 524 U.S. at p. 761 [141 L.Ed.2d at pp. 652-653]), the imposition
   of vicarious liability may be appropriate (id. at pp. 762-763 [141
   L.Ed.2d at p. 653]). "Tangible employment actions fall within the
   special province of the supervisor. The supervisor has been empowered
   by the company as a distinct class of agent to make economic decisions
   affecting other employees under his or her control." (Id. at p. 762
   [141 L.Ed.2d at p. 653].) Thus, "a tangible employment action taken by
   the supervisor becomes for Title VII purposes the act of the employer."
   (524 U.S. at p. 762 [141 L.Ed.2d at p. 653].) However, when no tangible
   employment action is taken, the situation is less clear. The Supreme
   Court noted: "Title VII is designed to encourage the creation of
   antiharassment policies and effective grievance mechanisms. Were
   employer liability to depend in part on an employer's effort to create
   such procedures, it would effect Congress' intention to promote
   conciliation rather than litigation in the Title VII context
   [citation], and the . . . policy of encouraging the development of
   grievance procedures. [Citations.] To the extent limiting employer
   liability could encourage employees to report harassing conduct before
   it becomes severe or pervasive, it would also serve Title VII's
   deterrent purpose." (Burlington, supra, 524 U.S. at p. 764 [141 L.Ed.2d
   at p. 654].) 4 The court concluded: "In order to accommodate the agency
   principles of vicarious liability for harm caused by misuse of
   supervisory authority, as well as Title VII's equally basic policies of
   encouraging forethought by employers and saving action by objecting
   employees, we adopt the following holding in this case and in Faragher
   . . . . [¶] An employer is subject to vicarious liability to a
   victimized employee for an actionable hostile environment created by a
   supervisor with immediate (or successively higher) authority over the
   employee. When no tangible employment action is taken, a defending
   employer may raise an affirmative defense to liability or damages,
   subject to proof by a preponderance of the evidence, [citation]. The
   defense comprises two necessary elements: (a) that the employer
   exercised reasonable care to prevent and correct promptly any sexually
   harassing behavior, and (b) that the plaintiff employee unreasonably
   failed to take advantage of any preventive or corrective opportunities
   provided by the employer or to avoid harm otherwise. While proof that
   an employer had promulgated an antiharassment policy with complaint
   procedure is not necessary in every instance as a matter of law, the
   need for a stated policy suitable to the employment circumstances may
   appropriately be addressed in any case when litigating the first
   element of the defense. And while proof that an employee failed to
   fulfill the corresponding obligation of reasonable care to avoid harm
   is not limited to showing any unreasonable failure to use any complaint
   procedure provided by the employer, a demonstration of such failure
   will normally suffice to satisfy the employer's burden under the second
   element of the defense. No affirmative defense is available, however,
   when the supervisor's harassment culminates in a tangible employment
   action, such as discharge, demotion, or undesirable reassignment."
   (Burlington, supra, 524 U.S. at pp. 764-765 [141 L.Ed.2d at p. 655];
   see also Faragher, supra, 524 U.S. at pp. 807-808 [141 L.Ed.2d at pp.
   688-689].) The question before us is whether this defense is limited to
   actions brought under Title VII, or whether it may also be raised in
   claims brought under FEHA. DHS emphasizes that California courts often
   look to federal decisions in interpreting analogous provisions of FEHA,
   and it urges us to follow that practice here. "Although the wording of
   [FEHA] and [T]itle VII of the Federal Civil Rights Act of 1964
   [citation] differs in some particulars, the antidiscriminatory
   objectives and the overriding public policy purposes are identical and
   we refer to those federal decisions where appropriate." (County of
   Alameda v. Fair Employment & Housing Com. (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 499,
   504, italics added.) In other words, to the extent the two statutory
   schemes are analogous, reference to federal case law is proper; where
   state law differs, however, federal interpretations of Title VII are
   not relevant. (See Romano v. Rockwell Internat., Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th
   479, 5 498-499; Page v. Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 1206,
   1215-1216; Johnson Controls, Inc. v. Fair Employment & Housing Com.
   (1990) 218 Cal.App.3d 517, 539-540; Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula
   Hospital (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 590, 606.) We therefore turn first to a
   review of pertinent FEHA provisions. Section 12920 declares it to be
   the public policy of the state to protect the rights of all persons to
   seek and hold employment without discrimination on account of sex or
   other protected classifications. The Legislature recognized that
   discrimination foments strife, deprives the state of the fullest
   utilization of its capacities, and adversely affects the interest of
   employees, employers and the public. (Ibid.) FEHA was intended "to
   provide effective remedies" to eliminate these discriminatory practices
   (ibid.), and it is to be liberally construed to effectuate its
   purposes. (§ 12993, subd. (a).) Unlike Title VII, FEHA explicitly
   mentions harassment as an unlawful employment practice. In what is now
   section 12940, subdivision (j), FEHA prohibits an employer from
   harassing an employee because of sex, and the statute expressly states
   that "harassment because of sex" includes sexual harassment. (§ 12940,
   subd. (j)(4)(C)). The reach of this provision is broad: Unlike other
   FEHA provisions, which define "employer" as a person regularly
   employing five or more people, the antiharassment provisions apply to
   an employer of one or more. (Compare § 12940, subd. (j)(4)(A) with §
   12926, subd. (d).) Other provisions further emphasize the Legislature's
   clear intent to eliminate harassment in the workplace. In its 1984
   amendments to FEHA, the Legislature declared: "It is the existing
   policy of the State of California . . . that procedures be established
   by which allegations of prohibited harassment and discrimination may be
   filed, timely and efficiently investigated, and fairly adjudicated, and
   that agencies and employers be required to establish affirmative
   programs which include prompt and remedial internal procedures and
   monitoring so that worksites will be maintained free from prohibited
   harassment and discrimination by their agents, administrators, and
   supervisors, as well as by their nonsupervisors and clientele." (Stats.
   1984, ch. 1754, § 1, pp. 6403-6404.)Section 12940, subdivision (j)(1)
   furthers this intent by providing in relevant part: "Harassment of an
   employee . . . by an employee other than an agent or supervisor shall
   be unlawful if the entity, or its agents or supervisors, knows or
   should have known of this conduct and fails to take immediate and
   appropriate corrective action. An entity shall take all reasonable
   steps to prevent harassment from occurring. Loss of tangible job
   benefits shall not be necessary in order to establish harassment." 6
   These principles are also reflected in the Guidelines of the Fair
   Employment and Housing Commission (FEHC) (further references to
   Guidelines are to title 2 of the California Code of Regulations), the
   administrative agency responsible for the administration of FEHA. Those
   Guidelines provide that "[s]exual harassment is unlawful . . . and
   includes verbal, physical, and visual harassment, as well as unwanted
   sexual advances." (Guidelines, § 7291.1, subd. (f)(1); see also
   Guidelines, § 7287.6, subd. (b).) A review of FEHA demonstrates another
   distinction between state and federal law, a distinction that is
   critical to the case before us. While Title VII does not explicitly
   address the question of employer liability for supervisor harassment,
   FEHA does. As noted previously, section 12940, subdivision (j)(1)
   provides in relevant part: "Harassment of an employee . . . by an
   employee other than an agent or supervisor shall be unlawful if the
   entity, or its agents or supervisors, knows or should have known of
   this conduct and fails to take immediate and appropriate corrective
   action." (Italics added.) Thus, harassment by a nonsupervisory
   co-worker is unlawful only if the employer knew, or should have known,
   of the harassment and failed to correct it. No such limitation exists
   for harassment by a supervisor or agent. Under rules of statutory
   construction, expressio unius est exclusio alterius -- the expression
   of one thing is the exclusion of another. (In re Michael G. (1988) 44
   Cal.3d 283, 291; People v. Rowland (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 61, 66; see
   generally 2A Singer, Statutes and Statutory Construction (6th ed. 2000,
   § 47:23.) The quoted language from section 12940, subdivision (j)(1)
   clearly indicates that, while an employer's knowledge and action may be
   relevant in assessing employer liability for harassment by a
   nonsupervisory employee, these factors are irrelevant when determining
   employer liability for harassment by a supervisor. Courts,
   administrative agencies, and commentators have consistently interpreted
   section 12940, subdivision (j)(1) in this manner. "By providing
   harassment of an employee by an employee other than an agent or
   supervisor shall be unlawful only if the employer knows or should have
   known of the harassment and fails to intervene, section 12940 reflects
   that harassment by a supervisor is unlawful regardless of whether the
   employer knows or should have known and fails to intervene."
   (Kelly-Zurian v. Wohl Shoe Co. (1994) 22 Cal.App.4th 397, 415, original
   italics.) 7 Similarly, in Doe v. Capital Cities (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th
   1038, the court commented that "characterizing the employment status of
   the harasser is very significant." (Id. at p. 1046.) "[A]n employer's
   liability under [FEHA] for an act of sexual harassment committed by a
   supervisor or agent is broader than the liability created by the common
   law principle of respondeat superior . . . ." (Id. at p. 1048, original
   italics.) Section 12940 "has been interpreted to mean that the employer
   is strictly liable for the harassing actions of its supervisors and
   agents [citations], but that the employer is only liable for harassment
   by a co-worker if the employer knew or should have known of the conduct
   and failed to take immediate corrective action." (Id. at p. 1046.) The
   court in Murillo v. Rite Stuff Foods, Inc. (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 833
   stated: "The FEHA offers greater protection and relief to employees
   than does [T]itle VII. An employer is strictly liable for damages an
   employee incurs as a result of a supervisor's or agent's sexual
   harassment." (Id. at p. 842.) The Supreme Court recently made a similar
   observation in Carrisales v. Department of Corrections (1999) 21
   Cal.4th 1132, albeit in dicta, when it noted section 12940 "makes the
   employer strictly liable for harassment by an agent or supervisor, but
   liable for harassment by others only if the employer fails to take
   immediate and appropriate action when reasonably made aware of the
   conduct." (Carrisales v. Department of Corrections, supra, at pp.
   1136-1137.) Other state and federal cases have also noted that the
   language of section 12940 imposes what has come to be referred to as
   strict liability in this context on employers for harassment by a
   supervisor, that is liability imposed on an employer, even though the
   employer did not know, and did not have reason to know, of the
   supervisor's conduct (e.g., Weeks v. Baker & McKenzie (1998) 63
   Cal.App.4th 1128, 1146; Fiol v. Doellstedt (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1318,
   1327, 1328; Pereira v. Schlage Electronics (N.D. Cal. 1995) 902 F.Supp.
   1095, 1102). FEHC guidelines reflect the same principles. Guidelines,
   section 7287.6, subdivision (b)(2) provides: "Harassment of an . . .
   employee by an employer or other covered entity, its agents or
   supervisors is unlawful." Subdivision (3) continues: "Harassment of an
   . . . employee by an employee other than those listed in subsection
   (b)(2) above is unlawful if the employer or other covered entity, its
   agents or supervisors knows of such conduct and fails to take immediate
   and appropriate corrective action." (Italics added.) We recognize that
   DHS questions the continuing viability of several FEHC cases that found
   employers strictly liable for the harassment 8 of supervisors. FEHC
   cases are irrelevant to our analysis because it is not FEHC cases, but
   FEHA and appellate case law construing that act that imposes liability
   on an employer for a supervisor's harassing conduct. We note also that
   commentators reviewing FEHA have instructed: "An employer is strictly
   liable under [FEHA] for its agent's or supervisor's acts of sexual
   harassment against an employee or applicant. . . . (by stating that
   harassment by employee other than an agent or supervisor' is unlawful
   only if employer knows or should have known of harassment and failed to
   correct it, FEHA makes it clear that employer is strictly liable for
   harassment by supervisor). . . . Strict liability applies regardless of
   the type of sexual harassment, i.e., whether it is quid pro quo or
   hostile environment harassment. [¶] The employer's strict liability
   arises from FEHA regardless of the employer's own lack of knowledge or
   its attempts to remedy the situation, e.g., by publishing a policy
   against sexual harassment." (1 Wrongful Employment Termination Practice
   (Cont.Ed.Bar 2d ed. 1997), Sexual Harassment, § 3.21, pp. 110-111; see
   also Lindemann & Kadue, Sexual Harassment in Employment Law (1992) Fair
   Employment Practices Statutes, pp. 324-325, and 1997 supp., pp.
   112-114.) This interpretation is consistent with legislative intent.
   (See People v. Rowland, supra, 75 Cal.App.4th at p. 66.) Legislative
   materials relating to recent amendments to FEHA continue to reflect the
   Legislature's intent to make both employers and employees liable for
   harassment. For example, after the Supreme Court held in Carrisales v.
   Department of Corrections, supra, 21 Cal.4th 1132, that a
   nonsupervisory harassing employee could not be held personally liable
   for his or her conduct under FEHA, the Legislature added section 12940,
   subdivision (j)(3) to clarify that "[a]n employee . . . is personally
   liable for any harassment prohibited by this section that is
   perpetrated by the employee, regardless of whether the employer or
   covered entity knows or should have known of the conduct and fails to
   take immediate and appropriate corrective action." (Stats. 2000, ch.
   1049, § 7.5.) Though the Legislature added individual liability for
   employees to section 12940, it did not eliminate or alter liability for
   employers. Committee reports uniformly indicate this legislation was
   prompted by the belief that "employer liability alone is not a
   sufficient deterrent to harassment in the workplace," and that "the
   individual doing the harassing should be one of the parties held liable
   for the conduct." (Sen. Rules Com., Off. of Sen. Floor Analysis, 3d
   reading analysis of Assem. Bill No. 1856 (1999-2000 Reg. Sess.) as
   amended Apr. 4, 2000, par. 5; Sen. Jud. Com, Analysis of Assem. Bill
   No. 1856 (1999-2000 Reg. Sess.) as amended Apr. 4, 2000, par. 1; Assem.
   3d Reading Analysis of Assem. Bill No. 1856 (1999-2000 Reg. Sess.) as
   amended Apr. 4, 2000.) The analysis quoted the bill's author as saying:
   "It seems only logical, and indeed fair, that 9 this law should impose
   liability on those persons directly responsible for harassment as well
   as on employers." (Sen. Jud. Com., Analysis of Assem. Bill No. 1856
   (1999-2000 Reg. Sess.) as amended Apr. 4, 2000, par. 4, italics added.)
   Opponents argued that employer liability alone was a sufficient
   deterrent. (Sen. Rules Com., Off. of Sen. Floor Analysis, 3d reading
   analysis of Assem. Bill No. 1856 (1999-2000 Reg. Sess.) as amended Apr.
   4, 2000, par. 5; Sen. Jud. Com, Analysis of Assem. Bill No. 1856
   (1999-2000 Reg. Sess.) as amended Apr. 4, 2000, par. 3.) California law
   exhibits a clear intent to hold employers strictly liable for the
   harassing conduct of supervisory employees, even though the employer
   did not know, and did not have reason to know, of the supervisor's
   conduct, and essentially makes the obligation to provide a
   harassment-free workplace the non-delegable obligation of the employer.
   The jurisprudence relating to employer liability for harassment by a
   supervisor under FEHA has developed differently from that under Title
   VII. Permitting the Burlington/Faragher defense to be applied to FEHA
   cases would undermine the clear language of section 12940, subdivision
   (j)(1) and legislative intent. DHS raises other arguments, which cannot
   withstand careful analysis. In an effort to open the door to the
   Burlington/Faragher defense, DHS questions the use of the term "strict
   liability" in this setting, asserting this phrase is generally
   restricted to products liability cases involving ultrahazardous
   activities. Regardless of the manner in which the term "strict
   liability" is used in other substantive areas of the law, it has come
   to be used in the area of employment law to connote liability imposed
   on an employer, even where the employer did not know, and did not have
   reason to know, of a supervisor's conduct. Properly understood, the
   term means nothing less and nothing more. While its use here may not
   square with the meaning of the terms as it is used in products
   liability law, DHS's apparent argument that the door somehow is opened
   to the Burlington/Faragher defense simply because the term "strict
   liability" is not a perfect fit between or among this and other areas
   of the law cannot be sustained. In a similar vein, DHS cites Fisher v.
   San Pedro Peninsula Hospital, supra, 214 Cal.App.3d at pages 608-609,
   footnote 6, and asserts that, despite the "strict liability" label,
   defenses are in fact available to an employer. DHS suggest then that,
   where defenses are available, there can be no strict liability. Again,
   however, that argument overlooks the manner in which the term has been
   used in employment law. Further, the question in Fisher was whether the
   harasser was an employee or independent contractor. Although the court
   stated that whether the harasser "is an independent contractor is an
   affirmative defense which must be asserted and proved by [the employer]
   at the time of trial" (ibid.), it is not a defense in the sense of the
   Burlington/Faragher defense. The issue raised 10 in Fisher was whether
   the elements of a harassment claim could be met, namely, was the
   harasser an employee and, therefore, within the ambit of FEHA, or was
   he an independent contractor and outside its purview.
   Burlington/Faragher, on the other hand, assumes that the predicate
   elements of a claim are met, but permits a defense to exempt an
   employer from liability anyway. It is well established that "in the
   construction of a statute the judiciary must simply ascertain and
   declare what is in terms and in substance contained therein, and may
   not insert thoughts that have been omitted or omit thoughts that have
   been inserted. [Citation.] A court may not rewrite the statute
   [citation], nor insert words in a statute under the guise of
   interpretation [citation], nor enlarge the plain provisions of a law
   [citations]." (Richardson v. City of San Diego (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d
   648, 650; accord, Edgar O. v. Superior Court (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 13,
   18; Berhanu v. Metzger (1992) 12 Cal.App.4th 445, 448; Johnston v.
   Department of Personnel Administration (1987) 191 Cal.App.3d 1218,
   1223.) Here, because FEHA differs from Title VII in its treatment of
   employer liability for harassment by supervisors, and because courts
   and the Legislature have reaffirmed that California law holds employers
   "strictly liable" for such harassment, we find it inappropriate to rely
   on federal decisions and import the Burlington/Faragher defense into
   state law. (See Romano v. Rockwell Internat., Inc., supra, 14 Cal.4th
   at pp. 498-499; Page v. Superior Court, supra, 31 Cal.App.4th at pp.
   1215-1216.) While strong policy reasons may exist for permitting a
   Burlington/Faragher defense in harassment actions, there are also
   strong countervailing concerns. On the one hand, the defense may
   encourage employers to create antiharassment policies and effective
   mechanisms to combat harassment in the workplace. (Burlington, supra,
   524 U.S. at p. 764 [141 L.Ed.2d at p. 654].) And it places what may be
   an appropriate burden on the employee to report harassment promptly and
   avoid the consequences that may result if the harassment becomes more
   severe and pervasive. (Ibid.) On the other hand, holding employers
   strictly liable for harassment by supervisors gives greater assurance
   that the victim will be compensated, and those costs may be more easily
   and appropriately borne by the employer rather than the harasser. (See
   Farmers Ins. Group v. County of Santa Clara (1995) 11 Cal.4th 992,
   1016.) Holding the employer automatically liable increases the
   likelihood that the employer will provide adequate training for its
   supervisors, and then monitor its supervisory staff to ensure that
   harassment policies are followed. A bright line rule also avoids
   litigation over whether a "tangible 11 employment action" was taken
   against the complaining employee. Holding both the offending supervisor
   and the employer liable "is consistent with the Legislature's intent to
   provide effective remedies which will eliminate such discriminatory
   practices.'" (Matthews v. Superior Court (1995) 34 Cal.App.4th 598,
   606.) Given these differing policy considerations, any decision to make
   the Burlington/Faragher defense applicable to FEHA claims is one that
   should be made by the Legislature, not the judiciary. (Fiol v.
   Doellstedt, supra, 50 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1329-1330; Strickland v.
   Foster (1985) 165 Cal.App.3d 114, 119.) DHS argues that failing to
   apply Burlington/Faragher to state claims would result in employers
   being held to different standards under state and federal law.
   Different standards between these two bodies of law may be onerous, but
   this fact does not render the law inherently unworkable. DHS also
   asserts this variance in the law means that California employees will
   have no duty to report harassment before it escalates. That may be a
   concern for the Legislature, but it cannot be one of ours, especially
   where the Guidelines provide that, while an employee who has been
   harassed by a co-employee should inform the employer of the harassment,
   "an employee's failure to give such notice is not an affirmative
   defense." (Guidelines, section 7287.6, subd. (b)(4).) Courts elsewhere
   have found Burlington/Faragher inapplicable to state claims. For
   example, the Michigan Supreme Court concluded that, because state
   statutes specifically made sexual harassment a form of unlawful
   discrimination, and because state case law had developed its own
   approach to determining employer vicarious liability for sexual
   harassment, the Burlington/Faragher defense should not be applied to
   state claims. (Chambers v. Trettco, Inc. (Mich. 2000) 614 N.W.2d 910,
   912, 914-919.) In Pollock v. Wetterau Food Distribution Group
   (Mo.Ct.App. 1999) 11 S.W.3d 754, the Missouri Court of Appeals noted
   that state regulations unambiguously made employers strictly liable for
   harassment by supervisors. (Id. at p. 767.) The state agency clearly
   intended that no affirmative defenses be available in cases of
   supervisory harassment and, consequently, the court refused to permit
   the Burlington/Faragher defense in state claims. (Pollock v. Wetterau
   Food Distribution Groupat, at pp. 767-768.) Similarly, in Myrick v. GTE
   Main Street, Inc. (D.Mass. 1999) 73 F.Supp.2d 94, the court concluded
   the Burlington/Faragher defense was 12 contrary to Massachusetts law,
   which provided that an employer was vicariously liable for the
   harassment by a supervisor and had no reasonable care defense. (Id. at
   pp. 97-98.) Illinois courts reached the same conclusion. In Board of
   Directors, Green Hills Country Club v. Illinois Human Rights Commission
   (Ill.App.Ct. 1987) 514 N.E.2d 1227, the court construed a state statute
   virtually identical to California provisions, which made it a civil
   rights violation for an employer, employee or agent of any employer to
   engage in sexual harassment, " provided[] that an employer shall be
   responsible for sexual harassment of the employer's employees by
   nonemployees or nonmanagerial or nonsupervisory employees only if the
   employer becomes aware of the conduct and fails to take reasonable
   corrective measures.'" (Id. at p. 1230.) The court ruled this language
   imposed strict liability on employers "for sexual harassment of their
   employees by supervisor personnel regardless of whether the employer
   knew of such conduct . . . ." (Id. at pp. 1230-1231; see also Geise v.
   Phoenix Company of Chicago, Inc. (Ill. 1994) 639 N.E.2d 1273, 1277.)
   Consequently, a later state court decision concluded that the
   Burlington/Faragher defense was inapplicable to Illinois claims.
   "Unlike Title VII, under which employers are not always automatically
   liable for sexual harassment, in Illinois the [state law] imposes
   strict liability on the employer regardless of whether the employer
   knew of the offending conduct." (Webb v. Lustig (Ill.Ct.App. 1998) 700
   N.E.2d 220, 227.) In contrast, states that have found
   Burlington/Faragher applicable to state law claims have done so because
   the state provisions were consistent with Title VII. (E.g., Parker v.
   Warren County Utility District (Tenn. 1999) 2 S.W.3d 170, 171, 172, 176
   [state law expressly to be construed in manner consistent with Title
   VII]; Bartkowiak v. Quantum Chemical Corporation (Tex.Ct.App. 2000) 35
   S.W.3d 103, 108-109 [state provisions to be construed in conformity
   with federal act].) This abbreviated review demonstrates that the
   Burlington/Faragher defense is appropriately applied to state law
   claims only if state law is consistent with Title VII. For the reasons
   explained, that is not the situation in California, and judicial
   importation of the defense into FEHA cases is inappropriate. We are
   aware that the Ninth Circuit recently predicted that California courts
   would reach a different conclusion. In Kohler v. Inter-Tel Technologies
   (9th Cir. 2001) 244 F.3d 1167, the court reviewed FEHA and Title VII
   provisions, and noted that FEHA requires employers to take reasonable
   steps to prevent harassment, a provision the court found provided "an
   even stronger basis for applying the federal affirmative defense than
   does Title VII itself." (Id. at pp. 1173-1174.) The court 13 also noted
   that, because the definitions of "employer" are identical under FEHA
   and Title VII, the agency analysis utilized in Burlington/Faragher was
   equally applicable to FEHA claims. (Id. at p. 1174.) The court
   summarized: "[T]he plain statutory language and the policies underlying
   FEHA support the application of the federal affirmative defense to
   cases of supervisory harassment arising under FEHA where no tangible
   employment action was taken. Thus, there is no reason for us to believe
   that the California Supreme Court would deviate in this instance from
   its usual practice of construing FEHA in conformity with Title VII."
   (Id. at p. 1176.) The Kohler court then discounted arguments that
   California courts imposed strict liability on employers for harassment
   by supervisors. The court noted that, under both the state and federal
   statutes, "a plaintiff may present a prima facie case of an employer's
   liability for a supervisor's sexual harassment without demonstrating
   that the employer was otherwise at fault. The only distinction is that
   the United States Supreme Court refers to this form of respondeat
   superior as vicarious liability' and California's intermediate
   appellate courts call it strict liability.' [¶] The confusion may lie
   in courts' tendency to interchange the terms vicarious liability' and
   strict liability' in the employment context." (244 F.3d at p. 1177.)
   The court concluded: "[T]he California courts that state an employer is
   strictly liable' for supervisory harassment use that term to indicate
   that an employer is liable for the conduct of his agent. The mere fact
   the California courts use a strict liability' label rather than a
   vicarious liability' label for the same theory of liability does not
   persuade us that the California Supreme Court would decline to adopt an
   affirmative defense to a FEHA workplace harassment action." (Id. at p.
   1178.) We do not agree. The Kohler analysis fails to give appropriate
   consideration to the fact that section 12940, subdivision (j)(1) sets
   forth a limitation on employer liability only in the case of harassment
   by nonsupervisory employees. Unlike Kohler, we do not believe
   California courts utilize the term "strict liability" as a synonym for
   "vicarious liability." State courts know the difference between these
   concepts. As one court succinctly summarized: "The case and statutory
   authority set forth three clear rules. First, . . . a supervisor who
   personally engages in sexually harassing conduct is personally liable
   under the FEHA. Second, . . . if the supervisor participates in the
   sexual harassment or substantially assists or encourages continued
   harassment, the supervisor is personally liable under the FEHA as an
   aider and abettor of the harasser. Third, under the FEHA, the employer
   is vicariously and strictly liable for sexual harassment by a
   supervisor." (Fiol v. Doellstedt, supra, 50 Cal.App.4th at p. 1327,
   italics added.) 14 Kohler notes that in Reno v. Baird (1998) 18 Cal.4th
   640, a case involving individual liability in a discrimination context,
   the California Supreme Court stated it was "express[ing] no opinion on
   the scope of employer liability under the FEHA for either
   discrimination or harassment." (Id. at p. 658, italics omitted.)
   Significantly, however, Kohler fails to recognize that the California
   Supreme Court gave such an opinion, albeit in dicta, in Carrisales v.
   Department of Corrections, supra, 21 Cal.4th at pages 1136-1137, when
   it echoed the rulings of the Courts of Appeal: "Section 12940[,
   subdivision (j)(1)] makes the employer strictly liable for harassment
   by an agent or supervisor, but liable for harassment by others only if
   the employer fails to take immediate and appropriate corrective action
   when reasonably made aware of the conduct." Because Carrisales had not
   been decided at the time of its petition, DHS also emphasizes that Reno
   v. Baird left this question open. Given the California Supreme Court's
   subsequent statement in Carrisales, however, Reno is not particularly
   useful to this case. And even if we were to ignore the Carrisales
   comments as dicta and treat the matter as unresolved by the state
   Supreme Court, the strength of the statutory and case law discussed
   would compel us to the same conclusion. California courts recognize
   that FEHA and Title VII differ in their treatment of employer liability
   for supervisory harassment. They also understand the policy
   implications involved, the statutory distinctions between FEHA and
   Title VII, and the Legislature's intent. "[T]he FEHA provides that an
   employer is strictly liable for the harassment of an employee by an
   agent or supervisor, while the employer is only liable for harassment
   of an employee by nonagents or nonsupervisors if the employer, its
   agents or supervisors know or should know of the harassing conduct and
   the employer fails to take immediate and appropriate corrective
   action." (Fiol v. Doellstedt, supra, 50 Cal.App.4th at p. 1328.) There
   is no confusion in state law on this point. In sum, under FEHA and
   California case law, employers are strictly liable for the harassing
   conduct of supervisors, even though the employer did not know, and did
   not have reason to know, of the conduct. While DHS advances sound
   policy reasons for incorporating the Burlington/Faragher defense into
   state law, we recognize strong countervailing policies also exist.
   Under these circumstances, resolution of this question is best left to
   the Legislature, not the courts. 15 Disposition Petition denied. The
   alternative writ of mandate, having served its purpose, is discharged.
   Real party in interest Theresa V. McGinnis shall receive her costs on
   appeal. We concur: MORRISON, Acting P.J. CALLAHAN, J. Opinion Footnotes
   *fn1 Pursuant to California Rules of Court, rules 976(b) and 976.2,
   this opinion is certified for publication. 16
