http://resourcescommittee.house.gov/press/2001/2001_0726parkshearingonpilotpeak.htm

   blue bar
   NEWS from
   Congressman James V. Hansen, (1^st District - Utah)
   Chairman, Committee on Resources; U.S. House of Representatives;
   1324 Longworth House Office Building; Washington, D.C. 20515-6201;
   202-225-2761
   Website address: http://resourcescommittee.house.gov/
   blue bar
   FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
   Contact: Marnie Funk (Marnie.Funk@mail.house.gov) or
   Michael Correia (Michael.Correia@mail.house.gov)
   (202) 226-9019
   July 26, 2001

           Dept. of Interior and U.S. Air Force Officials Support
               Designation of Utah Pilot Range Wilderness Area
              Bill Designates Wilderness Area in northern Utah

   Washington, D.C. The Subcommittee on National Parks, Recreation and
   Public Lands today heard testimony from federal and Utah state
   officials in support of H.R. 2488. The bill will designate nearly
   24,000 acres of land in Utahs Pilot Mountain Range as a wilderness
   area.

   The Pilot Mountain Range, with its peak rising over 10,700 feet, is
   located in the West Desert, approximately 115 miles northwest of Salt
   Lake City, along the Utah and Nevada border. H.R. 2488, introduced by
   Committee Chairman James V. Hansen, would assure that the designation
   is consistent with the national security mission of the U.S. Air Force
   by permitting military flights over the Pilot Range.

   Department of the Air Force Colonel Thomas Larkin, Director of the Utah
   Test and Training Range, testified in support of the bill. He said,
   "This proposed legislation ensures that designation of the Pilot Range
   Wilderness does not adversely affect our ability to conduct realistic
   training and testing operations. The proposed wilderness bill is an
   excellent example of how that military range operations and wilderness
   areas can be compatible."

   House Resources Chairman James V. Hansen's statement:
   "This bill is saying its time we start looking at wilderness on a site
       by site basis, not as a war of acreage. It says we should find the
       areas we can agree qualify as wilderness. It says we dont have to
       continue with this I win, you lose mentality. We have made every
       effort to take in the most reasonable boundaries, excluding the
       human intrusion as much as possible. This bill includes twice as
       many wilderness acres as did H.R. 1500, the bill supported by the
       Southern Utah Wilderness Alliance just two years ago.
       "For a long time, the history of wilderness designation has
       amounted to a lot of talk and little action. People argue, people
       posture, and nothing gets done. This bill represents a change.
       Indeed, designating the Pilot Peak range as wilderness truly stands
       as a breakthrough. The Pilot Peak bill shows that wilderness
       designation can be a win for everyone. I hope the passage of this
       bill will be a sign of things to come."

     For more information, please check the House Committee on Resources
              Home Page at http://resourcescommittee.house.gov

                                    # # #
