http://www.usitc.gov/delivery.htm

   Skip to content

   Site Map |  Search |  Publications |  Investigations |  Dockets |
             Information Center |  About the USITC |  Home

   U.S. International Trade Commission

                          DELIVERY & PICK-UP POLICY

   Deliveries for ITC offices and employees may be delivered ONLY to the
   ITC mailroom (room 119) or the Office of the Secretary (room 112). This
   encompasses all deliveries (packages, documents, or any other
   materials).

   Materials to be picked up from the ITC must be picked up from the
   mailroom (room 119) or the Office of the Secretary (room 112),
   whichever is appropriate.

   Couriers, messengers, and all other persons delivering or picking up
   packages and documents for ITC offices and employees must first report
   to the security desk in the main lobby of the ITC building (500 E
   Street SW, Washington, DC). Couriers, messengers, and other delivery
   persons must present a picture ID, sign a visitor log, and wear a
   visitor badge in order to enter the ITC. Packages and luggage are
   subject to search at the security desk. Once sign-in procedures are
   completed, the guards will direct the delivery person to the mailroom
   or the Office of the Secretary, as appropriate.

   When the agency is closed (prior to 8:45 a.m. and after 5:15 p.m.
   Monday through Friday, and on weekends, holidays, and other days on
   which the agency is closed), the guard on duty will advise the delivery
   person as to whether and where packages or documents may be left.
   Deliveries to or pickups from the Office of the Secretary can only be
   made during the Commission's normal business-day operating hours (8:45
   a.m. - 5:15 p.m., Monday through Friday).

   Questions concerning this policy should be directed to Jonathan Brown,
   ITC Security Officer, at 202-205-2745.


                         webmaster@usitc.gov

                                            Home Page

   Page last modified--
   March 22, 2000
