http://www.bls.gov/itc/home.htm

  Skip Navigation Links
  International Technical Cooperation                          BLS-DOL  DOL Logo
  BLS Home • Programs & Surveys • Topics A-Z • Glossary • What's New


   The International Labor Statistics Center of the U.S. Bureau of Labor
   Statistics (BLS) strengthens statistical development around the world
   through technical cooperation, seminars, and customized training
   programs. For over 50 years BLS has assisted statistical organizations
   throughout the world in the collection, processing, analysis,
   dissemination, and use of labor statistics. Fees are charged for
   seminars, customized training programs, and consultants. Short-term
   international visitors are welcome at BLS, free of charge.
     * General Overview
     * Scheduled Seminars
     * Customized Programs
     * International Visitors
     * Program Costs
     * How to Apply

     * Training Application Form
     * Training Payment Agreement Form

     Related Links

     Frequently Asked Questions

     Contact Us
                                                                         Top
   General Overview:

   The Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) is the largest labor statistics
   organization in the world and has provided international training since
   1945. Each year, the BLS International Labor Statistics Center conducts
   seminars of 4 to 6 weeks duration at its training facilities in
   Washington, D.C. In addition to the annual international seminars, the
   Center organizes visits to the BLS for over 300 international visitors
   each year.

   The seminars bring together statisticians, economists, analysts, and
   other data users from countries all over the world. Each seminar is
   designed to strengthen the participants' ability to collect and analyze
   economic and labor statistics. Each seminar includes a field trip, as
   well as lectures, discussions, and workshops.

   In addition to the scheduled seminars, customized programs in labor
   statistics can be arranged. Customized programs can be scheduled
   between seminars, for participants attending more than one program, or
   at any other time of the year.

   The language of instruction for both seminars and customized programs
   is English, and a reading knowledge of English is desirable. If
   necessary, simultaneous interpretation services may be arranged for an
   approximate cost of $550 per day.

   In addition to its Washington-based training, BLS can conduct seminars
   overseas on request. Such seminars can be held either for a single
   country or for several countries in the same region. BLS also makes
   available technical experts to serve overseas, at the request of
   individual governments or international organizations.
                                                                         Top
   Scheduled Seminars:

   The Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) international training seminar
   descriptions include the seminar dates and duration, cost, target
   audience, objectives, and program overview.
   Scheduled 2002 Seminars
     * Measuring Employment and Unemployment (6 weeks)
       April 15 - May 24, 2002
     * Labor Market Information (5 weeks)
       April 22 - May 24, 2002
     * Managing Information Technology (4 weeks)
       May 28 - June 21, 2002
     * Measuring Compensation (4 weeks)
       May 28 - June 21, 2002
     * Economic Indicators (5 weeks)
       June 24 - July 26, 2002
     * Constructing Price Indexes (6 weeks)
       July 15 - August 23, 2002
     * Measuring Productivity (4 weeks)
       July 29 - August 23, 2002
     * Projecting Tomorrow's Workforce Needs (5 weeks)
       August 12 - September 13, 2002
     * Analyzing Labor Statistics (4 weeks)
       October 28 - November 22, 2002
     * Managing Statistical Programs (2 weeks)
       October 28 - November 8, 2002
     * Training of Trainers (3 days)
       Offered after most seminars

                                                                         Top
   Customized Programs:

   Customized programs at BLS

   In addition to scheduled seminars, the International Labor Statistics
   Center (ILSC) may arrange customized programs upon request on any topic
   related to labor statistics for individual participants or small
   groups. For example, customized programs have been conducted on
   occupational safety and health statistics, managing statistical
   programs, and sampling methodology. Such programs may range in duration
   from 1 week to a month or longer. The content of each program is
   individually designed to meet the needs of the participant(s), and may
   include attendance at selected seminar sessions, consultations with
   subject matter specialists, or partipation in or design of research
   projects to provide practical experience in the subject area.
   Customized programs may include field trips to other U.S. cities.

   Customized programs also may be arranged for the periods before or
   after a scheduled seminar for participants enrolled in the seminar
   program. The cost of each program depends upon program duration, the
   amount of domestic travel required, and any additional administrative
   costs incurred.

   Overseas seminars

   The Bureau of Labor Statistics may hold overseas seminars on selected
   topics in labor statistics for participants from a particular country
   or region. Most overseas seminars are from 2 to 4 weeks in duration.

   The cost of overseas seminars depends upon the number of instructors
   required, the duration of the seminar, travel and per diem costs, and
   cost of simultaneous interpretation and translation of materials (if
   needed). Where a number of participants from one country or region need
   training in the same subject area, an overseas seminar may be
   cost-effective. Because of the lead-time that is required to plan an
   overseas seminar, requests for such programs should be submitted to the
   International Labor Statistics Center at least 6 months in advance of
   the desired starting date.

   Consultations

   BLS also makes available technical experts to serve as consultants. The
   cost of these services includes the expert's salary and benefits for
   the duration of the consultation, airfare, lodging, meals, and other
   expenses, as well as an administrative fee. Requests for technical
   experts should include a clear statement of the purpose of the
   consultation.
                                                                         Top
   International Visitors:

   International visitors

   Short-term international visitors are welcome at BLS, free of charge.
   The International Labor Statistics Center organizes visits to BLS for
   more than 300 persons each year. Visits are arranged for individuals,
   as well as for groups of all sizes. Visitors include economists,
   statisticians, researchers, analysts, managers, academics, trade union
   representatives, business leaders, and journalists.

   A typical visit lasts about two hours. Meetings are conducted in
   English. Non-English speaking visitors should bring their own
   interpreter. Every visit is unique and is organized to meet the needs
   and interests of the visitor(s).

   How to request a visit

   Requests for visits to BLS should be made as far in advance as
   possible, and include the following information:
     * Preferred dates and time of visit to the BLS;
     * Number of participants and their names;
     * Names of interpreters, when applicable;
     * Topic(s) of interest (as detailed as possible);
     * Mention of any previous visits;

   Requests for customized programs, overseas seminars, consultations, and
   visits may be made by letter, telephone, fax, or e-mail

   Security procedures

   Everyone is required to enter the Bureau of Labor Statistics through
   the First Street, NE entrance (between Massachusetts Avenue and G
   Street, NE) across from Union Station. Everyone is required to show
   photo identification, such as a passport, to gain entry into BLS. After
   verification, visitors will be screened with X-ray and metal detection
   equipment. Cameras are prohibited inside BLS.
                                                                         Top
   Program Costs:

      2002 International Training Program Costs

      The table below shows the total tuition costs for each seminar to be
      paid to the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) by the sponsor of each
      seminar participant. These tuition costs do not include the cost of
      simultaneous language interpretation (which also is paid to the Bureau
      of Labor Statistics if required). This table also does not include the
      allowances that should be paid directly to the participant including
      allowances for housing and meals, books, and health insurance; nor does
      it include the cost of international travel.


                  Seminar               Tuition Payable to BLS

   Measuring Employment and Unemployment
                                                $7,300

   Labor Market Information
                                                $6,225

   Managing Information Technology
                                                $5,150

   Measuring Compensation
                                                $5,150

   Economic Indicators
                                                $6,225

   Constructing Price Indexes
                                                $7,300

   Measuring Productivity
                                                $5,150

   Projecting Tomorrow's Workforce Needs
                                                $6,225

   Analyzing Labor Statistics
                                                $5,150

   Managing Statistical Programs
                                                $2,350

   Training of Trainers

                                        $645

                                                                         Top
   How to Apply:

   Applications may be sent by letter, fax, or e-mail to:
   Elizabeth A. Taylor, Director
   International Labor Statistics Center
   Bureau of Labor Statistics
   Room 2190
   2 Massachusetts Avenue, NE
   Washington, DC 20212-0001
   Telephone: (202) 691-5666
   Fax: (202) 691-7900
   E-Mail: itcinfo@bls.gov

   To apply for BLS seminars and programs, please complete a training
   application and a training payment agreement. Both forms are required
   to complete your application.

   Applications should include participant's name, position, name and
   address of employer, seminar(s) to be attended, and name and address of
   sponsor. All applications must include a complete mailing address and,
   if possible, telephone and fax numbers.

   Payment for tuition, in U.S. dollars, is due before or upon the
   trainee's arrival at the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). Payment may
   be made by check or credit card. BLS accepts MasterCard and VISA.
   Payment cannot be made by wire transfer to a BLS bank account. Tuition
   does not include the allowances necessary for housing, meals, and
   medical insurance. Do not include money in tuition payments to BLS that
   should be paid directly to the trainee for such allowances.

   BLS will reply to applications by fax or e-mail. In some cases, replies
   will be faxed to the U.S. Embassy in the participant's home country,
   whereupon an embassy official will contact either the applicant or the
   nominating organization.

   Financial sponsor must complete, sign, and return the Training Payment
   Agreement to BLS to finalize enrollment.

   Training Application
   Training Payment Agreement
                                                                         Top
   Related Links:

   Other Useful Links
     * Washington, D.C. Area Airports

     * Reagan National and Dulles International Airports
     * Baltimore Washington International Airport

     Weather for Washington, D.C.

     Washington, DC Metro Subway

     U.S. Census Bureau International Programs Center



                            People are asking...

                1. Where can I stay while I attend training?

       2. What ground transportation is available from area airports?

                   3. How can I get to BLS from my hotel?

                        4. What is the weather like?

                   5. How much money will I need each day?
                                      MAIL ICON Send us your question


   Privacy & Security Statement • Accessibility Information

                                   Search: ____________________ Search Now
                                                           Advanced Search
   U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics
   International Labor Statistics Center
   Suite 2190
   2 Massachusetts Avenue, NE
   Washington, DC 20212-0001

                                               URL: http://www.bls.gov/ITC
                                                     Phone: (202) 691-5666
                                                       Fax: (202) 691-7900
                                            ITC questions: itcinfo@bls.gov
                              Technical (web) questions: webmaster@bls.gov
                                          Other comments: feedback@bls.gov
