http://matheson.house.gov/issues2.cfm?id=941

   [LINK]-matheson Web Site Top Banner- Click here to skip to page content

   News Let's Talk Services Answers District Kid's Zone
   background image

    The Photo Gallery | Issues | Events in Washington | Biography | Press
                           Releases | Site Index |



     Utah Downwinders Win Payments, Not IOUs


     Washington D.C.Rep. Jim Matheson said the passage of the Defense
     Authorization Bill is a victory for thousands of sick Utahns who
     were wrongly exposed to atomic fallout by the U.S. government
     decades ago but who havent received compensation since the trust
     fund paying claims ran out of money last year

      As of July, more than 435 people whose RECA (Radiation Exposure
     Compensation Act) claims had been approved had instead received IOUs
     from the Justice Department.  Many died holding the IOUs and others
     are extremely ill.

      Matheson fought for $84 million that was included in the House
     version of a supplemental appropriations bill, later adopted by the
     Senate and signed by President Bush. Those funds began going out to
     IOU-holders in late October.  But at that time there were 3,200
     additional claims pending, with more expected.

      Since February, I have pushed for  a bill I cosponsored that would
     make funding permanent, rather than a year-to-year process that kept
     people in limbo, said Matheson.  After waiting so long for the
     government to acknowledge the injustice, the IOUs added insult to
     injury for victims and their families and that situation is totally
     unnecessary.

     Matheson said a similar provision to making funding permanent was
     included in a Senate bill proposed by Sen. Orrin Hatch and Sen. Pete
     Domenici of New Mexico.  The Defense Authorization measure now goes
     to the President for his signature.










                       Send To Printer Email to Friend

     Official Seal

                          This is an official Web site of the
                         United States House of Representatives.

                Congressman Jim Matheson, U.S. House of Representatives

         410 Cannon HOB

      Washington, DC 20515

     Phone - (202) 225-3011

                           125 State Street, Rm.2311

                           Salt Lake City, UT 84138

                            Phone - (801) 524-4394

   News |
   Let's Talk  |  Services  |  Answers  |  District |  Kid's Zone
   | Privacy Policy | Site Index  | Search
