http://www.belmont.gov/news/pedecoyres.htm

                                [Image64.gif]
                                [Image65.gif]

Press Release
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
December 13, 2001

                                                                                    CONTACT:
                                                                   Sergeant Patrick Halleran
                                                                              (650) 595-7400

                   Pedestrian Decoy Enforcement a Success

   Belmont, CA --

   The Belmont Police Department, with assistance from the Redwood City &
   Millbrae Police, conducted a Pedestrian Decoy Event on Ralston Ave., on
   Wednesday, December 12, 2001 between 1:00 PM and 4:00 PM in the area of
   the Carlmont Shopping Center.

   Police personnel in plain clothes were used to cross Ralston Ave. in
   marked crosswalks, while motorcycle officers observed for pedestrian
   right of way violations. Motorists failing to yield the right of way to
   the pedestrian were stopped. A total of 69 enforcement stops were made,
   with 61 citations issued and 8 warnings given. The fine for violating a
   pedestrian right of way in a crosswalk is $103. Passing another
   vehicle, which has stopped for a pedestrian in a crosswalk, carries a
   fine of $270.

   "The event met its objective, which was to raise drivers’ awareness of
   their responsibility to stop for pedestrians in marked crosswalks,"
   explained Sergeant Patrick Halleran of the Belmont Police Department.
   "The Carlmont Shopping Center area was chosen due to numerous
   complaints regarding this problem from merchants and neighborhood
   residents."

   The Belmont Police Department will carry out enforcement of pedestrian
   right of way violations on a continuous basis and will work with both
   the Redwood City Police Department and the Millbrae Police Department
   on pedestrian decoy events in their respective cities.


                                    # # #
