http://mosaic.larc.nasa.gov/reports/reports.htm

                                 LaRC Center


                 skip left nav NASA logo
                               Reports and Publications page
                               Home
                 Freedom of Information Act



   skip top nav About Us Research News and Events Education Images
   Business with LaRC Reports and Publications Site Index

   Reports and Publications

   Communicating Knowledge

      Langley Research Center communicates the knowledge gained through
      research and development programs to industry, academia and the public.

   NASA Scientific and Technical Information (STI) Program

      The NASA Scientific and Technical Information (STI) is dedicated to the
      advancement of aeronautics and space science. The STI Program acquires,
      processes, archives, announces and disseminates NASA's internal STI and
      provides access to worldwide STI of critical importance to NASA and the
      Nation. NASA STI products include:
        * Scientific and Technical Aerospace Reports (STAR)
        * Selected Current Awareness Notices (SCAN)
        * AGARD Reports
        * The NASA Thesaurus, the technology transfer publication
        * Spinoff, and the STI Database (such as the searchable databases
          ReconSelect and ReconPlus).

   Publication Servers

      The Langley Fact Sheet Server contains fact sheets, information
      summaries, lithographs and other publications about many of NASA
      Langley's research programs. Users can browse Langley's publications or
      search NASA-wide for hundreds of other electronic publications on NASA
      programs.
      The Langley Technical Report Server (LTRS) contains formal reports
      published by Langley researchers. Users can browse or search
      bibliographic information as well as retrieve the related abstracts and
      full text of the reports. Most reports are stored in compressed
      Postscript format or PDF format.
      The NASA Technical Report Server (NTRS) contains formal reports
      published by NASA researchers. This service allows users to search the
      many abstract and technical report servers maintained by various NASA
      centers and programs.
      The report server for the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics
      provides scanned NACA reports authored by researchers from all NACA
      sites. NACA was the predecessor organization to NASA, active from
      1917-1958. Reports are available in GIF and PDF formats.
   manditory area for keeping the table dimensions
   Research Section Aeronautics Earth Science Space Technology Structures
                                                               and Materials

   Privacy Statement | Feedback | Freedom of Information Act | 2003
   Centennial of Flight | Researcher News online | Language Assistance
   Plan (LAP)
   NASA Responsible Official: Cheryl Cleghorn | Page Curator: Bob Allen |
   Date Last Updated: 01/29/2002
