http://menendez.house.gov/leadership/

   Congressman Robert Menendez
   Bob Speaks Out
   Congressional Leadership
   Menendez Record
   Talk to Bob
   Constituent Services
   Photo Album
   Kids Section
   Report to the People

                                 What's New

                                           CONGRESSMAN BOB MENENDEZ

                     Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus
                               107TH CONGRESS

   Congressman Bob Menendez has made a career of taking on the tough
   challenges facing the 13th Congressional District of New Jersey -- and
   finding ways to turn those challenges into solutions and successes for
   the people who elect him. The residents of the 13th District have
   rewarded him by sending him to the House of Representatives five times,
   most recently with almost 80 percent of the vote.

   Congressman Menendez's work to improve public education and expand
   economic opportunities have been recognized nationally by his
   colleagues in Congress. In 1998, in a three-way race, the Democratic
   Members of the House of Representatives elected him Vice Chairman of
   the Democratic Caucus, making Bob Menendez the first New Jerseyan to
   hold the post, the first Hispanic ever elected to a leadership position
   in Congress, and the highest-ranking Hispanic in Congress today.
   Because of his successful leadership, he was re-elected Democratic Vice
   Chairman in 2000 -- without opposition.

   And as we enter into a new era in America, after the terrorist attacks
   of September 11th, Congressman Menendez is again taking on a national
   leadership role as Chairman of the House Democratic Task Force on
   Homeland Security. Working with the Task Force, Congressman Menendez
   introduced the Bioterrorism Protection Act (BioPAct) to ensure our
   nation has the resources and tools it needs to contain, respond to,
   and, most importantly, prevent acts of bioterror. His Task Force is now
   working on another comprehensive plan to make our nation more secure --
   from protecting our borders, to improving Intelligence, to increasing
   air and rail travel security, to keeping weapons of mass destruction
   out of the hands of our enemies.

   Bob Menendez has spent his life in public service taking on tough
   challenges on behalf of the people. He began his career fighting
   successfully to change an appointed school board to an elected school
   board in Union City, New Jersey. After spearheading the initiative that
   turned around the City's schools -- increasing graduation rates,
   attendance, and student performance -- the City's residents elected him
   as their Mayor. Today, he serves as the Chairman of the Democratic Task
   Force on Education, where he has led the movement to bring education
   reform to the nation, fighting to make all schools more accountable to
   parents, winning funding to attract and train new qualified teachers,
   and authoring legislation to add counselors and to modernize our aging
   schools, including wiring them for the information age.

   As a Member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee ,
   Menendez has worked to create a climate of smart growth -- creating new
   opportunities for commerce and job-creation, while making sure we
   protect our environment through good planning and fair regulation. The
   Congressman fought for and won the funding to modernize the Port of New
   York and New Jersey, which serves as a center for shipping and
   commerce. That modernization has been instrumental in bringing the
   benefits of international trade back home to New Jersey. It also helped
   stave off an effort by a Canadian port to cut into our national
   shipping business.

   But his work on building a 21st Century infrastructure hasn't stopped
   there.

   Congressman Menendez won the resources to build a "seamless transit
   system" for the region, including ferry service between Weehawken and
   Manhattan, the Hudson-Bergen Light Rail system, and links between local
   transit, train service, and Newark Airport. That plan is now a model
   for smart urban transportation development, fostering cleaner air
   through the use of mass transit, and revitalizing Northern New Jersey's
   hard-pressed cities, bringing in new commerce, jobs, housing, and
   economic development.

   That work has also helped create an economic climate that is attracting
   many firms with well-paying jobs to move their offices to the
   burgeoning financial district along and near the District's Hudson
   River Waterfront -- firms like Charles Schwab, Chase, Goldman Sachs,
   Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, and Paine Webber.

   Congressman Menendez is currently a lead co-sponsor of legislation to
   reduce the often unseen, government-imposed fees levied on investors
   when they trade stocks. These fees take a bite out of the profits of
   everything from pension funds to mutual funds, places where working
   families are increasingly putting their life's savings.

   Internationally, Bob Menendez is a vocal advocate for human rights. For
   his tireless work in this area, he was awarded the 1998 Ellis Island
   Medal of Honor. He currently serves as the Ranking Democratic Member of
   the Western Hemisphere Subcommittee of the House International
   Relations Committee, and fights to open up new markets in Central and
   South America for New Jersey's businesses.

   Always putting good ideas and working together above politics as usual,
   Bob Menendez sees all this work as part of a larger vision: to create a
   safe and secure 13th District, State, and nation with a world class
   education system, well-paying jobs, economic growth, and a 21st Century
   infrastructure to support the increase in population and commerce. His
   success in leading efforts in each of these areas has often been his
   ability to explain how they are all parts of a larger vision -- a
   vision that he is committed to turn into a reality for every citizen in
   his home district, with no family left without opportunity.

   Also a former State Assemblyman and State Senator -- where he was the
   author of New Jersey's landmark bias crime law, and New Jersey's
   telecommunications reform act -- and an attorney in private practice,
   Congressman Menendez received his B.A. from St. Peter's College in
   Jersey City, and his law degree from Rutgers University. The son of
   Cuban immigrants, he was raised in Union City, where he still lives
   today with his wife, Jane, an educator. The couple has two children,
   Alicia and Robert.

                    [Democratic Caucus] [Hispanic Caucus]
