http://www.nyed.uscourts.gov/General_Information/Courthouse_Locations/Groundbreaking/groundbreaking.html

   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]
   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]
   [bench1.jpg]
   [scales2.jpg]
   [pbanner1.jpg]
   [cjc1.jpg]

   [clearpixel.gif]
                    Groundbreaking


   [clearpixel.gif]

                    Home
                    General Information
                    Local Documents
                    Jury Service
                    Court Calendar
                    CM/ECF
                    Decisions of Interest
                    Cases of Interest
                    Notices
                    Help
                    System Status
                    What's New
                    Search this Site
                    FTP Site
                    Other NYED Sites
                    Links
                    Disclaimer
                    Security & Privacy

   [clearpixel.gif]

   Brooklyn Federal Court Project, February 7, 2000

   [Line.gif]

      PROGRAM
      Master of Ceremonies
      THOMAS J. RYAN
      Regional Administrator
      U.S. General Services Administration
      Presentation of Colors
      FEDERAL PROTECTIVE SERVICE
      U.S. General Services Administration
      Singing of the Star Spangled Banner
      LORIANNE CHARLES
      Invocation
      CANON ALONZO C. PRUITT
      Episcopal Dean of Central Brooklyn
      Welcome
      HONORABLE HOWARD GOLDEN
      President of the Borough of Brooklyn
      Remarks
      HONORABLE ED TOWNS
      United States Representative form the
      Tenth District of the State of New York
      HONORABLE LORETTA E. LYNCH
      United States Attorney
      Eastern District of New York
      HONORABLE CHARLES P. SIFTON
      Chief Judge
      United States District Court
      Eastern District of New York
      HONORABLE DAVID J. BARRAM
      Administrator
      U.S. General Services Administration
      HONORABLE DANIEL PATRICK MOYNIHAN
      United States Senator
      from the State of New York
      Closing Prayer
      RABBI JOSEPH POTASNIK
      Congregation Mount Sinai


   [Line.gif]

   THE BUILDINGS

   [photo1.jpg]

   NEW U.S. COURTHOUSE
   The new Federal Courthouse will be located in the Civic Center of
   downtown Brooklyn, visible from the Brooklyn Bridge, the Manhattan
   Bridge, lower Manhattan and surrounding neighborhoods. It will be
   constructed on the site if the former Emanuel Cellar building was razed
   in 1998.
   The project is comprised of three architectural elements: the 6-story
   existing courthouse; a 6-story connecting entry hall, which includes
   the main building entrance, lobby and cross-building connectors; and
   the new courthouse, a 14-story, limestone-clad tower. The combined
   building elements will function as the new court complex.
   [photo2.jpg] The new $222 million building will ultimately house 16
   District courtrooms, nine Magistrate courtrooms and 29 judges'
   chambers. The building will open in 2002 with 12 District Courtrooms,
   for Magistrate courtrooms, one Arraignment courtroom and 17 judges'
   chambers. To provide for both current needs and beyond, areas to be
   occupied by future courtrooms and chambers will initially house the
   U.S. Probation Department, which will be relocated from the building,
   as additional court space is needed. The courtrooms and chambers are
   arranged in a collegial layout with a single chambers floor located
   between two court floors. This layout reduces the size if the
   floorplate, creating a more tapered building profile. The smaller
   Magistrate floors, located in the upper tower, allow the building to be
   setback at the top. The Courthouse will also house a U.S. Court of
   Appeals Library, offices for the District Court Clerk, the Pretrial
   Services Agency and the U.S. Marshals Service. The building will
   include a food service facility and a Jury Assembly area, as well a
   below ground parking.
   Designed by HLW International L.L.P and Cesar Pelli and Associates


      U.S. POST OFFICE AND COURTHOUSE
      [photo3.jpg] To renew its former commanding presence in the civic life
      of Brooklyn, approximately 85,000 square feet of space are being deftly
      inserted into the National Historic Landmark General Post Office, and
      the interior of the existing space will be completely renovated.
      Originally completed in 1892, and significantly expanded in 1933, this
      Romanesque Revival building will serve as a Federal Courthouse and Post
      Office. By building into portions of the interior courtyard of the1933
      addition, this $161 million project will provide a spacious new
      mezzanine, four new courtrooms on the second and third floors,
      and40,000 square feet of efficient office space on the upper floors
      that will house the U.S. Attorney's office. The U.S. Postal Service
      will occupy newly renovated space in order to continue to provide
      retail sales of postal products and mail delivery service to the
      downtown community.
      [photo4.jpg] Significant historic elements are being restored while new
      elements are being carefully integrated into the historic fabric to
      introduce maximum natural light. Original wood and marble are being
      cleaned and restored and original paint colors and patterns are being
      replicated. To determine the original paint colors, successive layers
      of paint are being removed in a series of test "windows" until the
      original surf-ace is revealed. A new monumental flight of steps, scaled
      to the existing building and overlooking a block-long public park, will
      connect the building's three entrances to the street.
      Designed by R.M. Kliment & Frances Halsband Architects


   [Line.gif]

   ABOUT THE BUILDERS

   THE OWNER
   The US. General Services Administration was created in 1949 as a
   centralized Federal procurement and property management agency whose
   primary objective was to save taxpayers' money. It has evolved from a
   mandatory supplier of space and supplies for Federal civilian agencies
   to a non-mandatory provider of competitively priced quality office
   space, commercial products and professional, state-of-the-art services
   to the civilian and military workforce.

   PROGRAM/CONSTRUCTION MANAGER
   URS and O'Brien-Kreitzberg, in joint venture, are providing Program and
   Construction Management services for the Project. URS provides a full
   range of construction and program management, planning, architectural
   and engineering design services worldwide. The firm is ranked among the
   largest and most successful architectural and engineering firms in the
   nation as fisted in Engineering News Record. O'Brien-Kreitzberg is one
   of the nation's oldest and largest construction management firms and is
   ranked by ENR as the largest program/construction management firm in
   the country.

   GENERAL CONTRACTOR
   Jones-GM0 combines the resources of Crow/Jones Construction Company,
   founded in 1840, with those of GMO International the construction
   management firm created by Gene McGovern in 1993, and Knightsbridge
   Interiors, GMO's interiors construction division. Jones-GM0 is part of
   J.A- Jones Inc., a major construction company headquartered in
   Charlotte, North Carolina with more than 1,700 personnel.

   THE ARCHITECTS
   HLW International LLP is a full service architectural and engineering
   firm established in 1885. HLW, has produced a broad range of projects,
   including numerous government buildings, research facilities, high-rise
   commercial and residential projects, graphic and broadcast media, and
   corporate interiors.
   Cesar Pelli & Associates is a full service architectural practice. The
   American Institute of Architects awarded the firm its 1989 Firm Award,
   the highest honor the Institute bestows on a firm for consistently
   distinguished architecture. Cesar Pelli received the Gold Medal from
   the AIA in 1995, the highest honor that the AIA can bestow on an
   individual.
   R.M. Kliment & Frances Halsband Architects is a woman-owned partnership
   founded in New York City in 1972. The firm has received 39 design
   awards, including the 1997 Architecture Firm Award from the American
   Institute of Architects; the 1998 Medal of Honor from the New York
   Chapter AIA, the highest honor the Chapter bestows on a firm, also for
   distinguished architecture; and four National AIA Honor Awards for
   Excellence in Architectural Design.



   [Line.gif]
      Photos from the Ceremony


   [01.jpg]
      THOMAS J. RYAN


   [07.jpg]
      HONORABLE HOWARD GOLDEN


   [02.jpg]
      HONORABLE ED TOWNS


   [03.jpg]
      HONORABLE DAVID J. BARRAM
      HONORABLE CHARLES P. SIFTON
      HONORABLE LORETTA E. LYNCH


   [04.jpg]
      HONORABLE LORETTA E. LYNCH


   [05.jpg]
      HONORABLE CHARLES P. SIFTON


   [06.jpg]
      HONORABLE DAVID J. BARRAM


   [09.jpg]
      HONORABLE DANIEL PATRICK MOYNIHAN


   [10.jpg]
      RABBI JOSEPH POTASNIK
   [clearpixel.gif]

                    Home Search this Site Disclaimer Security & Privacy Help

        Copyright © 1997-2001 U.S. District Court - Eastern New York
                       Last Modified December 07, 2001
