http://enews.lbl.gov/Science-Articles/Archive/NS-phase-transitions.html


   Date

                                   January 14, 2002

                                              Date

   [pixel.gif] Berkeley Lab Science Beat Berkeley Lab Science Beat

   [pixel.gif] [bullet.gif] Phase Transitions in Atomic Nuclei
                            Contact: Lynn Yarris, lcyarris@lbl.gov


      Berkeley Lab Science Beat
      [pixel.gif]
      Lab website index
      [pixel.gif]
      Lawrence Berkeley National Lab home page
      [pixel.gif]

   Search Lab science articles archive

   ____________ Search Lab science articles archive
   [pixel.gif]

   Scientists at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory believe they have
   solved a mystery concerning atomic nuclei that's persisted for several
   decades. Taking a new approach to the analysis of existing experimental
   data, the researchers found the strongest evidence to date that atomic
   nuclei can be made to undergo a "phase transition" and change from a
   liquid to a vapor state.

   "The question has been whether the nucleus can be treated as a liquid
   drop, for which we can generate a phase diagram showing its transition
   from a liquid to a vapor," says Luciano Moretto, a chemist and coleader
   of this study. "We've shown the answer to this question is yes."


                         [XBD200112-02459-01.jpg]
      The team that uncovered nuclear phase changes: (from left, front)
   Luciano Moretto and Larry Phair, (back) Dimitry Breus, Gordon Wozniak,
                              and Jim Elliott

   The findings of the study were reported in the January 14, 2002, issue
   of Physical Review Letters. In addition to Moretto, Berkeley Lab
   authors were Gordon Wozniak, the study's coleader, and James Elliott
   and Larry Phair, all with the Nuclear Science Division. Nine authors
   were also cited from the ISiS Collaboration led by Vic Viola of Indiana
   University.

   Understanding the nature of matter requires knowing the boundary
   between its different phases, and how it changes from one phase to
   another. For example, imagine trying to understand the nature of water
   without knowing that under the right conditions it can be transformed
   into ice or steam. To understand the nature of atomic nuclei,
   scientists have long treated the nuclei as tiny drops of liquid, for
   which the physical properties and behaviors have been
   well-characterized.

   If this "liquid drop model" is accurate, scientists believed that under
   the right conditions — such as in the fireballs of particle accelerator
   collisions — the protons and neutrons inside an atomic nucleus should
   behave like ordinary molecules, and the nuclei should change from
   liquid to vapor phases. However, until now no one has been able to
   demonstrate that such a transition occurs.


                                                              [nuclei.jpg]
        [pixel.gif] Schematic diagram of the collision stages in reactions
    between a 5 GeV hydrogen ion and a gold nucleus: in the initial stage,
          heat is deposited in the nucleus, accompanied by the knockout of
     several fast particles. The hot nucleus then thermalizes and expands,
   eventually undergoing a "soft explosion," or multifragmentation. During
     this process, the nucleus acts like a molecule that is going from the
    liquid to the vapor state. (Image courtsey of Vic Viola, University of
                                                                  Indiana.

   "One problem is that the nuclear matter inside atomic nuclei consists
   of only scores of neutrons and protons compared to the 10-to-the-24th
   molecules in a glass of ordinary liquid," says Wozniak. "Furthermore,
   in order to observe nuclei change from liquid to vapor, temperatures of
   nearly one hundred billion degrees Celsius are required. No container
   is available, and the vaporization must occur in vacuum."
   The Berkeley Lab scientists succeeded where others before them had not,
   by departing the beaten nuclear science path of identifying critical
   components, caloric curves, and negative heat capacities.

   "We borrowed from the materials scientists and treated the multiple
   fragments of nuclei emerging from relativistic heavy ion collisions as
   aggregates or clusters of molecules," says Phair.

   Treating the fragments of nuclei as clusters of matter brings into play
   mesoscopic (intermediate scale) physics, sufficiently well understood
   to generate a nuclear liquid-to-vapor phase diagram. When the Berkeley
   Lab researchers did this, they produced a curve that matched the
   predictions of theoretical models.

   "It was the signature we were looking for," Phair says, "a curve that
   describes the process by which excited nuclei undergo a liquid-to-vapor
   phase transition."

   The Berkeley researchers worked with data from two major experiments,
   the ISiS (Indiana Silicon Sphere) collaboration experiments of 1997,
   and the EOS (Equation of State) collaboration experiments of 1990-1992.
   The ISiS experiments involved the multifragmentation of gold nuclei,
   and the EOS studies involved multifragmentation of gold, lanthanum, and
   krypton.

   "Recent experiments have made advances towards proving that nuclei
   undergo a liquid-to-vapor phase transition, but these efforts suffered
   from incomplete knowledge of the location of the nuclear fluid in
   density/pressure space," says Moretto. "By taking a cluster approach to
   the data, measurements of the nuclear fluid's location in
   density/pressure space could be made. More importantly, a phase diagram
   of finite-charge nuclear matter could be mapped."

   Says Elliott, "We analyzed both the ISiS and EOS data sets in order to
   survey an experimentally based Mason-Dixon line between nuclear liquid
   and gas on a pressure-versus-temperature plot. This represents the
   first experimental measurement of any phase diagram not bound together
   by electromagnetic forces."

   With their phase diagram, the Berkeley Lab researchers say that, given
   the size of the fragmented nuclei and the energy that was used to
   fragment them, they can predict the temperatures and pressures under
   which the nuclei will change from the liquid to the vapor phase.

   As with materials scientists, the next step for nuclear scientists will
   be to determine how the properties of atomic nuclei clusters compare to
   the properties of bulk nuclear matter.

   Says Elliott, "The resemblance of the alien form of nuclear matter we
   mapped in our phase diagram to the ubiquitous bulk nuclear matter
   supported by electromagnetic forces is highly significant. It could
   mean that the behavior of matter is determined by its form rather than
   by the origin of the force that holds it together."

   Additional information:

     * More about nuclear phase changes in Physical Review Letters
     * More about ISiS, the Indiana Silicon Sphere experiment
     * More about EOS, the Equation of State collaboraton
