http://www.ferc.gov/previousnews.htm

   [skip.jpg] = = = = = =

                                 [ibtnd.jpg]

   Industries Icons

                  The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
       Search Link Graphic E-Filing Link Graphic Records & Information
   Management System Link Graphic Commission Issuance Posting System Link
              Graphic = Site Map Link Graphic Home Link Graphic


   Previous What's New Items

       D.C. Regulator Named to Head New FERC Office of State Relations. Read
                                  More [pdf, 11K]

          Chairman Announces New Secretary For FERC. Read More [pdf, 9K]

        Notice of Technical Conference and Agenda for the Northeast Energy
       Infrastructure Conference Docket No. AD02-6-000 has been issued. Find
                                     out more.

         Market Design & Structure Conference January 22 & 23. Read More.

       The Commission adopts a proposed protective order and non-disclosure
      certificate filed by Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. and
                    KeySpan Corporation. Read more. [pdf, 27K]

          Commission to consider revising rules on public availability of
        critical energy infrastructure information. Read more. [pdf, 58K] |
                             Press Release [pdf, 12K]

            Commission grants rehearing and orders compliance filing in
        RP00-390-002, Granite State Gas Transmission, Inc. Read more. [pdf,
                                       35K]

       Commission finds that Nornew's proposal will serve public interest by
       providing natural gas supply and transportation service to Jamestown
                            BPU. Read more. [pdf, 114K]

          The Commission issues Certificates, NGA Section 3 Authority and
      Presidential Permit in North Baja Pipeline case. Read more. [pdf, 49K]

        Commission seeks comments on whether to change environmental plans,
                   construction/ mitigation procedures [pdf, 8K]

       FERC Orders Con Ed and Keyspan Energy To File Information For Use In
            Millennium Pipeline Settlement Talks. Read More [pdf, 14K]

      Notice of Technical Conference on January 22 and 23, 2002 on gaining a
       mutual understanding of similarities and differences between various
       market designs and to allow participants to provide further detail on
                           market operations. [pdf, 7K]

        Notice of Technical Conference and Agenda for the Northeast Energy
         Infrastructure Conference Docket No. AD02-6-000 has been issued.
                                  Find out more.

       Notice Delaying Effective Date of Mitigation and Announcing Technical
               Conference regarding AEP Power Marketing, Inc.,et al.
                               Read More [pdf, 8K].

               Commission Paves Way For Optimally Sized Midwest RTO.
                                     Read More
                             Press Release [pdf, 26K]

        In a broad rehearing order that addresses a number of wide-ranging
         issues related to California and the western energy markets, the
       Commission generally reaffirmed its key earlier decisions on pricing
                 and price mitigation measures. Order [pdf, 420K].

               Discussion Items at the Dec. 19th Commission Meeting.

       The Commission will hold a conference on energy infrastructure issues
          on the Northeastern states on Thursday, January 31, 2002 at the
        Helmsley Park Lane Hotel, 36 Central Park South, New York City, New
                               York. Find out more.

       The Commission request views from State Commissioners on RTOs in the
                          Northeast. Read more [pdf, 10K]

       Commission Announces New, Interim Generation Market Power Screen and
                      Mitigation Policy [Read More: pdf, 82K]

       Commission Announces New, Interim Generation Market Power Screen and
                           Mitigation Policy [pdf, 24K]

       Commission Proposes To Revise Market-Based Rate Tariffs, Establishes
                    Refund Effective Date [Read More: pdf, 11K]

       Commission: California ISO Must Stop Preferential Treatment For State
                           Agency [Read More: pdf, 10K]

           Discussion Papers  from the November 20th Commission Meeting

         Order Granting Motion To Compel Return Of Protected Material And
      Requiring Southern California Edison Company To Show Cause - Docket No.
                              RP00-241-000 [pdf, 29K]

      Transcript of the November 2 Seattle Infrastructure Conference - Docket
                            No. AD01-2-000 [pdf, 643K]

      Order Announcing the Establishment of State-Federal Regional Panels to
         Address RTO Issues, Modifying the Application of Rule 2201 in the
            Captioned Dockets, and Clarifying Order No. 607 [pdf, 20K]

              Discussion Papers from November 7th Commission Meeting

       Electricity Market Design and Structure - Order Providing Guidance on
                  Continued Processing of RTO Filings. [pdf, 18K]

                Commission to Facilitate Generator Interconnection
          As a first step, FERC will issue an advanced notice of proposed
          rulemaking to develop and adopt a a national standard electric
           interconnection agreement between transmission providers and
                                    generators.

        Notice Regarding Mail Delivery at FERC issued October 26, 2001 Read
                                       More.

      Commission Reiterates Commitment to Monitor Pipeline OFO Activity FERC
       wants to ensure that pipelines maintain reliable service with minimal
                       use of operational flow orders. [pdf]

      Discussion Papers for Commission Meeting on October 24, 2001 Read More.

      Discussion Papers for Commission Meeting on October 11, 2001 Read More.

       Chief Law Judge Recommends Dismissing El Paso Complaints in RP00-241
      Judge finds no evidence that El Paso Pipeline and El Paso Merchant used
      market power to drive up natural gas prices at California border. [pdf]

                    RTO Workshops & Conferences are announced.

            Making Markets Work - A Revised Agency Strategic Plan [pdf]

         A forum on ethics issues with the public is scheduled. Read more.

                      Market Based Rate Options Paper [pdf].

        Discussion Papers for Commission Meeting on September 26, 2001 Read
                                       More.

         Recommendations and Proposed Findings of Fact Puget Sound Energy,
                issued September 25, 2001. Read more [pdf (720kb)].

                International EAP Workshop - Postponed. Read more.

      The Administrative Law Judge Mediator's Report has been filed with the
        Commission. This report details the formation of a single Regional
       Transmission Organization ("RTO") for the Northeastern United States.
       This report also includes the "Business Plan for the Development and
       Implementation of a Single Regional Transmission Organization for the
                     Northeastern United States" . Read more.

          Statement of Policy on Extraordinary Expenditures Necessary to
                   Safeguard National Energy Supplies (PL01-6).
                                Press Release [pdf]

               Chairman Announces New FERC Ethics Mandate. Read More

       Chairman Wood Announces Key Appointments at Federal Energy Regulatory
                                    Commission
                                       [pdf]

       Chief Judge Wagner extends the date for the filing of reply briefs to
         September 14, 2001, and encourages the parties to settle, in the
                   proceedings in Docket No. RP00-241. Read More

      Accounting and Reporting for Certain Types of Financial Instruments and
                                Hedging Activities
                                     Read More

         Equation error found in Chapter 11 - Arch Dams of the Engineering
       Guidelines. Replace section 11-5.6.2 with this updated version [pdf]

        Chairman Hébert to leave the Commission after guiding FERC through
                         historic period. Read More [pdf]

      Request for Information (RFI) on Information Research, Publishing, and
                              Printing for the Public
                   Adobe (pdf) | WordPerfect (wpd) | Word (doc)

       As of August 17, 2001, FERC's old website will no longer be available
                        as a separate site Read More [pdf]

      Commissioners Wood and Brownell to attend meeting at California Energy
                 Comm. on Monday, June 25, 2001 [read more (pdf)]

              Commission receives 1,000th Paperless Electronic Filing
                                 [read more (pdf)]

      Commission Extends California Price Mitigation Plan for Spot Markets to
                  All Hours, All States in Entire Western Region
        [read more (pdf)] Need information about FERC?  www.ferc.gov [pdf]
      After about a three month trial period, the FERC officially invited the
       public to begin using its new internet web site at www.ferc.gov. The
       site's name change and new design are in the spirit of e-Government.
       The new site reflects the Commission's continuous efforts to make it
      easier and faster for users to find information and understand what the
                          Commission's work is all about.

              FERC: The First 100 Days Under the Bush Administration
      [pdf] The Commission cited numerous accomplishments in dealing with the
          California/Western Energy Markets, Electricity and Natural Gas
      Transmission, Hydroelectric Licensing and its overall case processing.

               FERC Staff Issues Hydropower Report to Congress [pdf]
         Pursuant to Section 603 of the Energy Act of 2000, the Commission
           conducted a comprehensive review of policies, procedures, and
       regulations for the licensing of hydroelectric projects to determine
      how to reduce the cost and time of obtaining a license.  The report was
          sent to Congress on May 8, 2001.  Read the entire report [pdf]

             Commission expedites additional gas service to Southwest
        FERC approved El Paso Natural Gas Company's proposal to convert to
       natural gas an estimated 785 miles of existing crude oil transmission
        pipeline.  The $154 million project will provide an additional 230
          million cubic feet of natural gas service to California and the
                         Southwest. Read the entire order

       Commission Establishes Prospective Mitigation and Monitoring Plan for
                       California Wholesale Electric Markets
      The Commission today announced a plan designed to bring price relief to
        the dysfunctional California electric market, provide greater price
          certainty to buyers and sellers of electric power, and promote
            conservation while encouraging investment in generation and
                        transmission. Read the entire order

      Commission Accepts Outline of Broad Western RTO, ITC; Notes Importance
                       of Interrelated Western Energy Market
      The Commission Today accepted as a "first step" key parts of a proposal
        for a broad regional transmission organization (RTO) that will span
        eight western states.  Today's order also accepts a proposal for an
          independent transmission company (ITC) within the RTO structure
                        (RT01-15-000).Read the entire order

                   Court Backs FERC on California Market Issues
      The Ninth Circuit supported the Commission's decision to terminate the
       California Power Exchange's tariff and rate schedules as necessary to
        facilitate forward contracting by the investor-owned utilities free
      from "the chilling effect" produced by the California Public Utilities
      Commission's continuing reliance on the PX spot markets for determining
            what prices were prudent to pay for purchasing electricity.

         Commission give quick approval to rush natural gas to California
      On April 6, 2001, FERC issued a certificate to Kern River Transmission
      Co. authorizing the construction of facilities need to deliver 135,000
       Mcf per day of natural gas to California.  The certificate comes only
       three weeks after the company filed its application.  Read the entire
                                      order.

          Commission to hold Conference on Western Energy Issues in Boise
      FERC has invited representatives from the 11Western states to attend a
                                   conference to
           discuss price volatility in the West and related matters. The
                              conference will be held
        Tuesday, April 10, 2001 at the Holiday Inn Boise Airport in Boise,
                                       Idaho

       Commission Issues Show Cause Order, Launches Non-public Investigation
                         of Two California Power Marketers
       The Commission directed Williams Energy Market & Trading Company and
      AES Southland, Inc. to explain why the power marketing companies should
        not be found to have violated the Federal Power Act by engaging in
       actions that inflated electric power prices in the California market
         and potentially compromising the reliability of the transmission
                network. Read the entire order and the attachment.

        FERC Acts to Remove Obstacles & Expedite Energy Supplies to Western
                                      Markets
      The Commission today announced a series of across-the-board regulatory
      actions designed to bring more economic and reliable energy supplies to
        the stressed California and Western energy markets. Read the entire
                                      order.

                  Gridsouth Transco Provisionally Approved
    On March 14, 2001, the Commission gave a provisional go ahead for the
        first regional transmission organization (RTO) located in the
             southeastern United States. Read the entire order.

                    FERC Rejects Southern's RTO Proposal
     The Commission today rejected two key elements of Southern Company
   Services, Inc.'s proposed Regional Transmission Organization (RTO) and
    encouraged the company to explore joining neighboring utilities in an
                RTO for the Southeast. Read the entire order.




   Disclaimers - Privacy & Security Statement - Freedom of Information Act
                            - Enforcement Hotline
                  Content Master - Web Master - Home - Top

                          Updated: January 29, 2002
