http://www.ogp.noaa.gov/aboutogp/spotlight/gcc/01_02.htm

                                  NOAA LOGO

                                 [lisa.gif]
                             Global Carbon Cycle
                               Program manager
                                Lisa Dilling

                         [USEMAP:office_titlec.gif]


        Carbon Cycle Science Breakthroughs. . . . at NOAA and Beyond

   Carbon is the backbone of life on earth, from the food that sustains us
   to the energy that fuels the world economies. In the form of carbon
   dioxide and methane in the atmosphere, it is also an important
   regulator of the earth's climate as a major contributor to the
   planetary greenhouse effect. A small active fraction of the Earth's
   large carbon reservoirs exchanges naturally between the ocean,
   atmosphere and land (Figure 1). While the climate is directly affected
   by atmospheric concentrations of greenhouse gases, we must also
   understand how carbon cycles among these active reservoirs if we hope
   to be able to predict future atmospheric greenhouse gas concentrations
   accurately.


    Figure 1. Major fluxes of carbon among the mobile reservoirs of land,
   ocean, and atmosphere (after A U. S. Carbon Cycle Science Plan). Figure
    1. Major fluxes of carbon among the mobile reservoirs of land, ocean,
          and atmosphere (after A U. S. Carbon Cycle Science Plan).

   Carbon dioxide (CO2) and methane (CH4) concentrations have been
   increasing in the atmosphere since 1850 and are now higher than they
   have been for more than 400,000 years, primarily as a result of human
   use of fossil fuels and land clearing. Of the total emissions to the
   atmosphere, only about 50% remains in the atmosphere. The land and
   oceans absorb the other 50% by processes known as "sinks". Quantifying
   and reconciling these sinks with the remaining concentrations in the
   atmosphere has been and remains a major challenge, although recent
   advances have been made understanding the continental U.S. land sink
   through NOAA-supported research (see below**).

   A complete understanding of all the processes involved in the carbon
   cycle is still lacking, especially on land. Natural sources and sinks
   in the land and ocean are highly variable (Figure 2). As we do not yet
   fully understand the direct causes of this variability it is difficult
   to produce reliableforecasts of how they will change in the future. The
   coupled dynamics of carbon in the land, ocean, and atmosphere could
   have a dramatic impact on future atmospheric CO2, and therefore climate

     Figure 2. The response of the atmospheric CO2 growth rate to fossil
   fuel emissions is partially dictated by how the ocean and land take up
        CO2 from the atmosphere (Tans). Figure 2. The response of the
      atmospheric CO2 growth rate to fossil fuel emissions is partially
     dictated by how the ocean and land take up CO2 from the atmosphere
                                   (Tans).

   Recognizing the integrated nature of the carbon cycle, 6 federal
   agencies (DOE, NASA, NSF, NOAA, USDA, and USGS) are coordinating their
   individual carbon cycle research programs to address common research
   goals outlined in A U.S. Carbon Cycle Science Plan. See
   http://www.carboncyclescience.gov for more information.

   The main objective for NOAA's Global Carbon Cycle research program is
   to improve our ability to predict the fate of anthropogenic CO2 and
   future atmospheric CO2 concentrations using a combination of global
   observations, process-oriented field studies, and modeling. There are
   three major goals:
    1. Quantifying spatial patterns and variability of carbon sources and
       sinks at global to regional scales;
    2. Documenting the fate of anthropogenic CO2 in the atmosphere and
       oceans; and
    3. Improving future climate predictions by incorporating a dynamic
       understanding of the carbon cycle into models.

   Highlights of currently funded research:
   The Cooperative Air Sampling Network (Figure 3) and a global
   climatology based on ocean data (Figure 4) are key tools to monitor CO2
   concentrations in the global atmosphere and document sources and sinks
   for carbon. Several modeling groups use these data to calculate global
   sources and sinks at the broad continental scale.

   Figure 3. The NOAA CMDL Cooperative Air Sampling Network (Tans). Figure
          3. The NOAA CMDL Cooperative Air Sampling Network (Tans).
     Figure 4. Mean annual air-sea fluxes of CO2. "Warm" colors indicate
   release of CO2 from the ocean to the atmosphere; "cool" colors indicate
      uptake, or "sink" regions (Takahashi et al. 1999). Figure 4. Mean
     annual air-sea fluxes of CO2. "Warm" colors indicate release of CO2
     from the ocean to the atmosphere; "cool" colors indicate uptake, or
                   "sink" regions (Takahashi et al. 1999).

   Research suggests that land masses in the Northern Hemisphere (North
   America, Eurasia) are a net sink for excess CO2 in the atmosphere.
   However, quantifying this sink over continents is a major challenge
   because of the complex covarying signals of CO2 exchange over the land.
   A major program combining field observations, modeling, and data
   assimilation seeks to test and build the next generation of
   observational tools to quantify sources and sinks at regional scales
   over North America and adjacent ocean basins. This program is the first
   effort to be collaboratively managed by the Carbon Cycle Interagency
   Working Group. For more see: www.carboncyclescience.gov. NOAA hopes to
   support this effort through atmospheric observations over the land and
   ocean, surface carbon measurements in adjacent ocean basins, and
   innovative data assimilation and modeling techniques.

   NOAA also funds process research to improve the quality of our
   observations and to be able to use data more accurately at global to
   regional scales. One example of this research is the GCC's focus on
   air-sea exchange, currently a major source of uncertainity in
   quantifying ocean uptake at regional scales. NOAA and NSF are
   supporting a coordinated field campaign (Gas Ex 2001) studying the
   complex physical, chemical, and biological forcing functions of CO2
   air-sea exchange in the equatorial Pacific (Figure 5).

    Figure 5. Deployment of experimental equipment to measure air-sea gas
         exchange in the Equatorial Pacific. Figure 5. Deployment of
        experimental equipment to measure air-sea gas exchange in the
                             Equatorial Pacific.

   Once the CO2 enters the surface ocean, its fate is further dependent
   upon physics, chemistry, and biology in the ocean interior. Quantifying
   ocean interior inventories of total dissolved CO2 and the anthropogenic
   CO2 is very difficult on a global scale. NOAA and NSF are coordinating
   a repeat ocean survey of some of the major survey lines sampled as part
   of the Joint Global Ocean Flux Study and the World Ocean Circulation
   Experiment (Figure 6). These interdisciplinary surveys will be jointly
   sponsored by the CLIVAR program (Climate Variability). Details at
   www.aoml.noaa.gov/ocd/repeathydro

     Figure 6. Proposed ocean interior survey lines. Black lines are the
   proposed U.S. lines, black and white lines are committed international
    lines, and gray lines are additional lines proposed for CLIVAR (Feely
     and Sabine). Figure 6. Proposed ocean interior survey lines. Black
   lines are the proposed U.S. lines, black and white lines are committed
    international lines, and gray lines are additional lines proposed for
                         CLIVAR (Feely and Sabine).

   Finally, model development is required to project future concentrations
   of CO2 in the atmosphere, to aid in planning optimal sampling networks,
   and to narrow uncertainty in model disagreements, including the role of
   oceanic CO2 uptake (Figure 7).

       Figure 7. Model results for oceanic CO2 uptake (OCMIP, courtesy
          Caldeira). Figure 7. Scenarios for future atmospheric CO2
   concentrations depend on accurate model representations of future ocean
     uptake. Models show wide variations in their representations of the
                     future (OCMIP, courtesy Caldeira).

   NOAA will endeavor to reduce these uncertainties through the
   development of coupled models that evaluate carbon fluxes, identify key
   processes and predict future atmospheric CO2 concentrations. Such
   innovative research can assist in designing operational observational
   systems, and bring dynamic understanding of the carbon cycle to be
   incorporated into improved climate forecasting products.
   NOAA now has a call for proposals in the Global Carbon Cycle program
   for FY2002. For more details, see:
   http://www.ogp.noaa.gov/mpe/gcc/index.htm.

   **Research results in the carbon cycle were touted as a runner-up "2001
   Breakthrough of the Year" by Science magazine. "Carbon Consensus.
   Researchers who had been puzzling over how much carbon dioxide is
   absorbed by U.S. forests and fields have finally reconciled their
   conflicting results. The outcome will help hone estimates of how much
   the planet may warm in future years..." (to read entire article see
   http://www.sciencemag.org or Science, 294:2447.). The lead article that
   is mentioned was initiated by a workshop funded by NOAA/OGP (and led by
   a P.I. at the NOAA/OGP-funded Carbon Modeling Consortium-- Steve
   Pacala).

                            Return to What's New

                      Visit the Global Carbon Home Page


              OGP  Home | Search OGP | Site Index | What's New

              About OGP |  Programs  |  Library   |  Grants
