http://www.epa.gov/epahome/headline4_012502.htm

   Skip common site navigation and headers
   United States Environmental Protection Agency
   EPA Newsroom

      Recent Additions | Contact Us | Print Version Search: __________ Search
      Advanced Search
   Begin Hierarchical Links EPA Home > EPA Newsroom > EPA Announces New
   Initiative to Protect and Preserve Americas Waterways End Hierarchical
   Links



   EPA Newsroom
   Browse EPA Topics
   Laws & Regulations
   Where You Live
   Information Sources
   Educational Resources
   About EPA
   Programs
   Business Opportunities
   Jobs
   Recursos en Español
   EPA's Explorer's Club for Kids


EPA Announces New Initiative to Protect and Preserve Americas Waterways

   January 25, 2002

   Photo of a bottom of a watershed overlooking the missisippi river
   President Bush will include $21 million in his 2003 budget for a new
   EPA initiative to protect, preserve, and restore waterways across the
   country. This effort was announced by EPA Administrator Christie
   Whitman during a visit to the Minnesota Valley National Wildlife Refuge
   in the Minneapolis/St. Paul area.

   The Administrator announced as part of this community–based initiative,
   EPA will target up to 20 of this country’s most highly-valued
   watersheds for grants. EPA will be working cooperatively with state
   governors, tribes and other interested parties on this initiative. This
   program will also support local communities in their efforts to expand
   and improve existing protection measures with tools, training and
   technical assistance.

   “As we mark the 30th anniversary of the Clean Water Act this year, we
   have much to celebrate and many challenges left to face with regard to
   our nation’s water resources,” Whitman said. “I have heard a watershed
   defined as "communities connected by water," a good reminder that we
   all live downstream from someone. I am proud to say that the Bush
   Administration needs no reminding of that fact.

   “President Bush understands the importance of watershed protection and
   he is taking action to make America’s waterways cleaner and healthier
   for the families that enjoy them,” Whitman continued. “In his 2003
   budget, President Bush has included $21 million for a new EPA
   initiative to copy successful approaches and techniques to protect
   highly valued watershed resources throughout the country. With the
   President’s commitment to watershed protection, I am confident that we
   can preserve and protect our precious waterways for future
   generations.”

   Whitman noted that the program “recognizes the important role that
   states and local communities have in helping to achieve our common
   goals, by giving them the power to do what works.”

   Water quality problems including habitat loss and alteration, nutrient
   enrichment, pathogens, and invasive species continue to harm watersheds
   nationwide. These problems prevent our resources from meeting water
   quality goals and deprive the public of economic, recreation, and
   drinking water opportunities. The problems are complex and require
   local assessment, involvement and commitment. This investment will
   capitalize on the lessons learned from existing community-based
   protection efforts. Information on the watershed program is available
   at http://www.epa.gov/owow/watershed/.

   This page originally created: Friday, January 25, 2002

                     Begin Site Footer

   EPA Home | Privacy and Security Notice | Contact Us
