http://www.ne.nrcs.usda.gov/nrd/lower_republican_nrd.asp

   Lower Republican NRD

   Home NE Photo Gallery Hot Topics and News Directory N R D ' s RC&D
   Helpful Links Technical Resources Programs and Services Career
   Opportunities Volunteer

Lower Republican NRD image      LOWER REPUBLICAN NRD

   Office Information

   James Miller
   District Conservationist
                           707 North Kennedy
                           P.O. Box 410
                           Alma, NE 68920-0410
                                              Phone: (308) 928-2089
                                              Fax: (308) 928-3159

     Directory for Lower Republican NRD

     District Conservationist Biographical Sketch

     Resource Needs and Concerns

     NRCS Role in addressing the LRNRD and Local work group Priorities

     Primary Programs and Services

     Republican Tribs EQIP Priority Area

   District Conservationist Biographical Sketch

   Jim Miller
   District Conservationist
   Lower Republican NRD

   1969 Graduate of Cambridge High School

   1969-1975 Served in the U.S. Navy

   1979 Graduated from University of Nebraska Lincoln (UNL) with a
   Bachelors of Science Degree in Agriculture.

   1980 - Upon graduation I began my career in the SCS in David City. I
   served the people of Butler County as a Soil Conservationist.

   1983 - Transferred to Madison where I served the people in Madison
   County as the District Conservationist.

   1983 - Transferred to Alma where I serve the people of Harlan County. I
   direct the operations and supervise the NRCS employees located in
   Furnas, Harlan, Franklin and Webster County offices.


   Resource Needs and Concerns

   A diversity of resource needs and concerns exist and have been
   identified by local leaders within the Lower Republican Natural
   Resources District (LRNRD). These concerns include:
     * Water quality concerns associated with high nitrates levels in the
       groundwater
     * Soil erosion control on cropland
     * Grazingland health
     * Quality and quantity of wildlife
     * Forestry resources in the district
     * Irrigation systems

   NRCS Role in addressing the LRNRD and Local work group Priorities

   Priorities are divided between irrigation water management, soil
   erosion control, and grazingland health issues.
     * Groundwater nitrate level reduction
     * Soil erosion control on cropland
     * Improving grazingland health
     * Improving the quality and quantity of wildlife habitat in the LRNRD

   NRCS is the primary source of technical assistance to address the
   priorities identified by the LRNRD Board of Directors and the Local
   Work Group.

   Primary Programs and Services

   NRCS utilizes the following programs on a routine basis to address the
   resource concerns and needs identified by the LRNRD Board of Directors
   and the Local Work Group:
     * EQIP, CRP, NSWCP, WILD NEBRASKA and various local LRNRD programs

   Republican Tribs EQIP Priority Area

   The project area is about 519,500 acres in size and is located in
   Gosper, Furnas, Phelps, and Harlan Counties. Furnas and Harlan Counties
   are located in the LRNRD. The land use is 50% grazingland, 40% dry
   cropland, and 10% irrigated cropland. The primary resource concerns are
   grazingland health, erosion control on dry cropland and irrigation and
   nutrient management on irrigated cropland. The objective of this
   project is to improve water quality delivered to the Republican River.
   This project is a coordinated effort to provide incentive payments,
   cost share incentive, educational and technical assistance to producers
   who implement or install conservation practices. This will result in
   reduced soil erosion, improved grazingland health, reduced flooding,
   and reduced nitrate and pesticide loads in the surface waters.


   [blue_bar.gif]
   Partner Links: NRCS | USDA | NACD | FSA | RD | FS | CSREES
   [blue_bar.gif]

   United States Department of Agriculture
   Natural Resources Conservation Service
   Nebraska State Office
   100 Centennial Mall North, Room 152
   Lincoln, NE 68508
   Webmaster
