http://www.usfa.fema.gov/cipc/


   USFA Seal
   About USFA
   Press Releases
   Fatality Notices
   Staff Directory
   Employment

   Fire Academy
   Data Center
   NFF Memorial

   Fire Safety
   Kids' Page
   Wildfire
   Arson Prevention
   EMS
   HazMat
   NFIRS

   Publications
   Hotel-Motel List
   Federal Fire News
   Grants
   Alerts
   LRC Catalog
   State Contacts

      Critical Information Protection Center Banner Image


   USFA Critical Infrastructure Protection
   Information Center

      CIPC INFOGRAMS

      CIP BULLETIN

      WHAT IS CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROTECTION?

      Critical Infrastructure Protection (CIP) pertains to the proactive
      activities for protecting physical and cyber systems so vital to the
      operations of the United States that their incapacity or destruction
      will seriously weaken national security, economic stability, or public
      safety. CIP methods and resources deter or prevent attacks against
      critical infrastructures by people (e.g., terrorists, other criminals,
      hackers, etc.), by nature (e.g., hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes,
      floods, etc.), and by HazMat accidents involving nuclear, biological,
      or chemical substances.

      WHAT ARE CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURES?

      Critical infrastructures of the emergency services are those physical
      and cyber assets that are essential for the accomplishment of missions
      affecting life and property. They are the people, things, or systems
      that will seriously degrade or prevent survivability and mission
      success if not intact and operational. Some examples of critical
      infrastructures for the fire and emergency medical services are:
        * Firefighters and paramedics.
        * Fire and EMS stations, apparatus, and communications.
        * Public Safety Answering Points (or 9-1-1 Communications Centers).
        * Computer-aided dispatch and computer networks.
        * Pumping stations and water reservoirs for major urban areas.
        * Major roads and highways serving large population areas.
        * Bridges and tunnels serving large population areas.

      WHY DOES CIPIC PROMOTE A PROCESS APPROACH?

      Community leaders, including those of emergency first responders, have
      the responsibility to decide what infrastructures must be protected
      from attacks by people, nature, or HazMat accidents. The reality that
      resources (i.e., time, money, personnel, and material) are scarce
      tremendously complicates their decision-making. How then, does one
      determine the fewest indispensable infrastructures to receive the
      application of these scarce resources? The CIPIC recommends the
      implementation of the CIP process.

      The CIP process is an analytical model or template to guide the
      systematic protection of critical infrastructures. More basically, it
      is a reliable decision sequence that assists leaders in ultimately
      determining exactly what really needs protection. As a time-efficient
      and resource-restrained practice, the process ensures the protection of
      only those infrastructures upon which survivability and mission success
      depend.

      WHAT IS THE CIP PROCESS?

      Critical infrastructure protection is preferably accomplished through
      the application of a systematic, analytical process that can be fully
      integrated into all department plans and operations. The process is a
      methodology that will efficiently enhance security and make a favorable
      difference if repeatedly implemented by department leaders. It consists
      of the following five steps:
        * Identifying critical infrastructures essential for the
          accomplishment of department missions (e.g., fire suppression, EMS,
          HazMat, search and rescue, extrication, etc.).
        * Determining the threat against those infrastructures.
        * Analyzing the vulnerabilities of threatened infrastructures.
        * Assessing risk of the degradation or loss of a critical
          infrastructure.
        * Applying countermeasures where risk is unacceptable.

      WHAT IS THE PURPOSE OF THE CIPIC?

      The primary activity of the CIPIC is to disseminate information to
      bolster the infrastructure protection efforts of emergency first
      responders throughout the nation. To accomplish this, the CIPIC
      routinely performs the following major tasks:
        * Research current physical and cyber protection issues relevant to
          the emergency services community.
        * Disseminate quality CIP information via INFOGRAMs posted on an
          informative website (www.usfa.fema.gov/cipc).
        * Provide consultative assistance to encourage the practice of the
          CIP process.
        * Operate an information center responsive to CIP information needs
          of the leaders and managers of emergency first responders.
        * Prepare CIP instructional materials for use in education and
          training settings.

               Critical Infrastructure Protection Information Center
                             16825 South Seton Avenue
                               Emmitsburg, MD 21727
                                   301-447-1325
                                 usfacipc@fema.gov
                              www.usfa.fema.gov/cipc

         [ search | help | links | feedback | e-mail lists | home ]


    Last Updated: December 27, 2001

   FOOTER: UNITED STATES FIRE ADMINISTRATION
