http://www.carb.nist.gov/graduate.html

           [http:logo.jpg] Graduate Research Opportunities at the
                Center for Advanced Research in Biotechnology

   [http:crystals.jpg] [http:map.jpg] [http:subtilisin.jpg]

   The Center for Advanced Research in Biotechnology (CARB) is a joint
   venture of the University of Maryland, the National Institute of
   Standards and Technology (NIST), and Montgomery County that provides a
   unique enviorment for collaborative research among academic,
   government, and industry scientists.

   The CARB faculty, consisting of scientists from the University of
   Maryland and NIST, conduct basic research programs at the frontiers of
   structural and physical biochemistry and molecular biology. Located on
   the new Shady Grove campus of the University of Maryland in Rockville,
   CARB lies in the heart of Maryland's growing biotechnology community
   and is near all the major University of Maryland research campuses as
   well at the National Institutes of Health and NIST. CARB's modern
   research facility contains well-equpped laboratories with
   state-of-the-art instrumentation in the areas of molecular biology,
   X-ray crystallography, NMR spectroscopy, CD, calorimetry, and computing
   science. CARB provides an exceptional enviornment for training graduate
   students and postdoctoral fellows in fields critical to the future of
   biotechnology.

   Current faculty research interest include the following areas:
     * Engineering protein folding and stability (P. Bryan)
     * Assembly and control of activity of regulatory proteins using
       molecular biology and physical biochemistry (E. Eisenstein)
     * Physical chemistry of the structure and function of biological
       macromolecules (M. Gilson)
     * X-ray crystallography of biological macromolecules (G. Gilliland,
       O. Herzberg)
     * Computational studies of protein folding and functions (J. Moult)
     * Structural and dynamical studies of proteins and nucleic acids
       using NMR spectroscopy (J. Orban, J.P. Marino)
     * Mechanisms of enzyme specificity and catalytic power (J. Stivers)
     * Computational studies of the evolution of genes, proteins, and
       genomes (A. Stoltzfus)
     * Structural immunology, structure specificity of antibody-antigen
       complexes (R. Mariuzza)
     * Static and dynamic properties of membrane protein structure (K.
       Ridge)
     * Thermodynamics of protein-ligand interactions and protein stability
       in solution using microcalorimetry (F. Schwarz)
     * Computational chemistry applied to enzyme mechanisms and molecular
       interactions (M. Krauss)

   For further information see CARB Research Highlights.

   SUPPORT:
   Enrollment and support are available through the Molecular and Cell
   Biology program of the University of Maryland system and other joint
   programs with the University of Maryland System campuses.

   APPLICATIONS AND INFORMATION:
   Applications and information may be obtained from:
   Dr. John Orban
   CARB
   9600 Gudelsky Drive
   Rockville, MD 20850
   Phone: (301) 738-6272

   Please send comments to:
   webmaster-carb@nist.gov.
