http://www.cstl.nist.gov/staffacc.htm

   CSTL Banner - CSTL provides the chemical measurement infrastructure to
   enhance U.S. industry's productivity and competitiveness; assure equity
   in trade; and improve public health, safety, and environmental quality.




                              Staff Recognition

   Our Staff is CSTL's greatest resource. We are proud of all of them and
   their accomplishments, both at work and in their communities. In
   FY2000, the following were formally recognized for their achievements.

                                Neil Alderoty

   Neil Alderoty (CSTL Senior Management Advisor) was awarded the
   Department of Commerce Silver Medal as part of a group recognized for
   "their efforts in managing and preparing the financial statements for
   NIST and over half of the Department of Commerce leading to the
   Department receiving its first clean audit opinion."

                              Richard Cavicchi

   Richard E. Cavicchi ( Process Measurements Division) was awarded the
   Department of Commerce Bronze Medal for his "pioneering efforts in
   silicon micro-machined, thin-film sensor array technology for detection
   and measurement of gases."

                                   Pam Chu

   Pamela M. Chu (Analytical Chemistry Division) was awarded the
   Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers (PECASE).
   She was cited for "developing chemical measurement methods and
   standards needed by American industry for measuring air pollutants from
   automobile exhaust gases and chemical process plants."

                              Yolanda Davidson

   Yolanda Davidson (Analytical Chemistry Division) CSTL Graduate Fellow,
   received her Ph.D. degree. Her dissertation research, "Immobilization
   of Enzymes on Porous Silica for the Micro-Digestion of Oligonucleotides
   with Analysis by CE," was completed under Prof. Steven A. Soper of
   Louisiana State University.

                                Miral Dizdar

   Miral Dizdar (Biotechnology Division) was awarded an honorary doctorate
   degree from the Ludwik Rydgier Medical University in Bydgoszcz, Poland
   for "his pioneering work on mechanisms and measurement of oxidative DNA
   damage and its cellular repair." Miral is the first chemist and the
   third scientist to ever receive this honor from Rydgier University.
   Jeanice Brown Thomas, David L. Duewer, Margaret Kline and Katherine
   Sharpless
   Jeanice Brown Thomas, David L. Duewer, Margaret C. Kline, Katherine E.
   Sharpless and Kenneth T. Gary (deceased) (Analytical Chemistry and
   Biotechnology Divisions) were awarded the 2000 Youden Award in
   Interlaboratory Testing by the American Statistical Association for a
   paper entitled "Micronutrients Measurement Quality Assurance Program:
   Helping Participants Use Interlaboratory Comparison Exercise Results to
   Improve Their Long-term Measurement Performance," published in
   Analytical Chemistry (vol. 71, p. 1870).

                                Mike Epstein

   Michael S. Epstein, Laboratory Office, received the Distinguished
   Service Award of the Society for Applied Spectroscopy (SAS) for his
   long-time service to the Society. He has served as the SAS treasurer
   and newsletter editor.

   Bob Greenberg, Dick Lindstrom and David Simons
   Robert R. Greenberg, Richard M. Lindstrom, and David Simons (Analytical
   Chemistry, and Surface and Microanalysis Science Divisions) received
   the Chemical Science and Technology Laboratory (CSTL) Technical
   Achievement Award for their work in "Instrumental Neutron Activation
   Analysis for Certification of Ion-Implanted Arsenic in Silicon".

                                MIckey Haynes

   William M. Haynes (Physical and Chemical Properties Division) was
   elected a Fellow of the American Physical Society in recognition of his
   technical contributions and leadership in the development of a
   world-class research program on the properties of fluids and fluid
   mixtures.

                                Aaron Johnson

   Aaron Johnson (Process Measurements Division) CSTL Graduate Fellow,
   received his Ph.D. degree. His dissertation research, "Numerical
   Characterization of the Discharge Coefficient in Critical Nozzles," was
   completed under Professor Charles L. Merkle of Penn State University.

                                  Bill Koch

   William F. Koch (CSTL Deputy Director) was elected a Fellow of the
   National Academy of Clinical Biochemistry by the Board of Directors for
   outstanding contributions to the field of clinical biochemistry and for
   distinguished achievements in research, education and service.

                                 Mike Kurylo

   Michael J. Kurylo (Physical and Chemical Properties Division) received
   the NOAA Environmental Hero Award for "efforts to protect and preserve
   our Nation's environment." This award cited, among numerous
   accomplishments, efforts in promoting standards and intercomparisons
   and involvement in studies of the kinetics of important atmospheric
   reactions.

   Mike Moldover and Bobby Berg
   Michael R. Moldover and R. F. Berg (Process Measurements Division) were
   selected by the Director of NASA's Glenn Research Center to receive
   this year's Lewis Distinguished Publication Award. The paper was
   entitled "Equilibration near the liquid-vapor critical point in
   microgravity," Phys. Rev. E, vol. 57.

                                Greg Poirier

   Gregory E. Poirier (deceased) (Process Measurements Division) was
   selected as the NIST Sigma Xi Young Investigator of the Year 2000
   acknowledging his groundbreaking studies of self-assembled monolayers
   using scanning tunneling microscopy.

                                  Ken Pratt

   Kenneth W. Pratt Jr. (Analytical Chemistry Division) was awarded the
   Department of Commerce Bronze Medal, in recognition of his "outstanding
   fundamental and applied research in the areas of pH and electrolytic
   conductivity."

                                Fred Schwarz

   Frederick P. Schwarz (Biotechnology Division) received the Department
   of Commerce Bronze Medal Award for his "fundamental research using
   biological calorimetry to investigate the energetic basis for stability
   and specificity of macromolecular recognition processes."

                              Hratch Semerjian

   Hratch Semerjian (CSTL Director) was elected to the National Academy of
   Engineering for "developing powerful laser diagnostics of flames, and
   for providing measurement methods, standards, and data to the chemical
   and biochemical industry."

                                 Jan Sengers

   Jan V. Sengers (Physical and Chemical Properties Division) received the
   award of Honorary Fellow of the International Association for the
   Properties of Water and Steam for "effectively organizing and directing
   international efforts in research on the thermophysical properties of
   water and steam in the critical region and transport properties in the
   entire fluid region."

                                 John Sieber

   John R. Sieber (Analytical Chemistry Division) received an Award of
   Appreciation from ASTM Committee D02 on Petroleum Products and
   Lubricants.

                                Steven Stein

   Steven E. Stein (Physical and Chemical Properties Division) received
   the 1999 ANACHEM award from the Association of Analytical Chemists.

   <font face="Arial, Helvetica, sans-serif"><b>Becky A. Stevenson, Gary
   R. Hardin, and William M. Haynes</b></font>
   Becky A. Stevenson, Gary R. Hardin, and William M. Haynes (Physical and
   Chemical Properties Division) received Certificates of Recognition from
   the American Society for Mechanical Engineers for their contributions
   to the Fourteenth Symposium on Thermophysical Properties.

                                 Mike Welch

   Michael J. Welch (Analytical Chemistry Division) received the NIST
   Technology Services (TS) Measurement Services Award for his "efforts in
   healthcare related Standard Reference Materials."

   Created: 2 Feb 2001
   Last update: 1 March 2001

   Return to the CSTL News Archive
