http://www.cpc.ncep.noaa.gov/products/expert_assessment/seasonal_drought.html


    Climate Prediction Center Banner

    Skip Navigation Links


    HOME
    Expert Assessments
    Drought Assessment

                  United States Seasonal Drought Outlook
              United States Seasonal Drought Outlook Graphic

    Latest Seasonal Assessment - The long-term drought situation should
    continue to gradually improve across the Northwest, although some
    water shortages may persist. Abundant rain and snow during October
    to December gave way to drier conditions during the first half of
    January, causing some snow pack to diminish. However, a wetter
    pattern appears likely to resume shortly. Severe to extreme drought
    persists in Montana and Wyoming, where precipitation has been mostly
    below normal this season, allowing long-term deficits to continue.
    Drought will not end in either state soon, but seasonal rain and
    snow should gradually improve conditions by spring. Elsewhere, dry
    conditions have developed over Arizona. Although expanded drought is
    not forecast at this time for the Southwest, it should be noted that
    the latest official seasonal outlook for February-April calls for
    enhanced risk of above-normal temperatures and below-normal
    precipitation for the region. Drought continues in eastern New
    Mexico and west Texas, extending northward into Kansas. In Kansas,
    the beginning of the dry spell dates back to the hot month of July,
    when Wichita, for example, saw temperatures reach 100 degrees F on
    17 days. Since July 1, Wichita has recorded only 53% of normal
    precipitation. The new seasonal drought outlook calls for drought to
    persist across the region. A recent drying trend extending northward
    and eastward into Nebraska, Iowa, and Missouri should be monitored,
    as there are no indications for significant short-term improvement.
    Drought persists along the Eastern Seaboard from Georgia to Maine. A
    recent coastal snowstorm brought some relief to New England, but far
    more precipitation is needed across most of the drought area.
    Forecasts suggest that some relief is likely by spring for most of
    the East Coast, although water shortages are unlikely to end in the
    next few months. Improvement is less likely from southern Georgia
    into southern South Carolina, where forecasts indicate below- normal
    rainfall and above-normal temperatures during February-April. Some
    significant short- term relief, however, is expected for the
    Southeast in the next 2 weeks.

    The National Weather Service seeks to improve customer service by
    identifying and understanding customer needs. If you use the Drought
    Outlook routinely for decision-making and are interested in working
    with us, please click here to provide us with contact information.


          Publication of the web team, Climate Prediction Center.
    Last Updated: 1/18/02
