http://www.compliance.gov/images/our3.pdf

   OFFICE OF COMPLIANCE LA 200, John Adams Building, 110 Second Street,
   S.E. Washington, D.C. 20540-1999 SARA J. OURSLER, ) Complainant, )) v.
   ) Case No. 98-SN-24 (CV, FM, RP) ) THE OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES )
   SENATE SERGEANT AT ARMS, ) Employing Office. ) Before the Board of
   Directors: Glen D. Nager, Chair; James N. Adler; Jerry M. Hunter;
   Virginia A. Seitz, Members DECISION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board
   has before it a Petition for a Writ of Mandamus of the Office of the
   United States Senate Sergeant at Arms ("SAA") concerning the refusal of
   the Hearing Officer to dismiss the above-referenced matter. The Board
   has carefully reviewed the petition, the materials filed in support of
   it, and the materials filed in opposition to it. The Board has also
   carefully reviewed the pertinent orders of the Hearing Officer. Based
   on this review, the Board denies the petition. It is settled that "a
   writ of mandamus is an extraordinary remedy, to be reserved for
   extraordinary situations . . . ." Gulfstream Aerospace Corp. v.
   Mayacamus Corp., 485 U.S. 271, 289 (1988) (internal citations omitted).
   Specifically, under the law of the judicial circuit to which we are
   accountable, "[t]he Petitioner has the burden of establishing that its
   right to the issuance of the writ is clear and indisputable, and that
   it lacks adequate alternative means to obtain the relief sought." In re
   Regents of Univ. of Cal., 101 F.3d 1386, 1387 (Fed. Cir. 1996)
   (internal citation omitted), cert. denied sub nom. Genentech, Inc. v.
   Regents of Univ. of Cal. , 117 S. Ct. 1484 (1997). A writ may properly
   issue "only when there has been a clear abuse of discretion or
   usurpation of judicial authority . . . ." id., and even then the grant
   of the petition is a matter for sound discretion, see Kerr v. United
   States Dist. Court, 426 U.S. 394, 403 (1976). In the case of a
   jurisdictional ruling, among other things, the challenged action must
   be "so plainly wrong as to indicate failure to comprehend or refusal to
   be guided by unambiguous provisions of a statute or settled common law
   doctrine. If a rational and substantial legal argument can be made in
   support of the questionable jurisdictional ruling, the case is not
   appropriate for mandamus . . . ." Formica Corp v. Lefkowitz, 590 F.2d
   915, 921, (C.C.P.A.), cert. denied, 442 U.S. 917 (1979) (quoting
   American Airlines, Inc. v. Forman, 204 F.2d 230, 232 (3d. Cir.), cert.
   denied, 346 U.S. 806 (1953)); accord In re Cordis Corp., 769 F.2d 733,
   737 (Fed. Cir. 1985). Under these standards, it is plain that there is
   no cause here for the issuance of a writ. The Hearing Officer has
   written a thoughtful explication of his reasons for retaining
   jurisdiction over this matter; and, while we have no occasion at this
   time to address further the substance of the underlying jurisdictional
   dispute, the Hearing Officer's reasons are self-evidently anything but
   irrational or insubstantial. Moreover, our conclusion that "rational
   and substantial legal argument[s]" can be made in support of the
   jurisdictional conclusion reached by the Hearing Officer is buttressed
   both by the substantive arguments advanced on behalf of the Executive
   Director of the Office of Compliance, an officer with significant and
   explicit statutory responsibilities under the Congressional
   Accountability Act ("CAA"), and by the decision of the Executive
   Director to file an amicus brief in order to bring to the attention of
   the Hearing Officer the importance of the issues here to the
   enforcement of the CAA. In addition, because a writ of mandamus is
   addressed to the sound discretion of the Board, we find it significant
   that the Hearing Officer relied at least in part on current procedural
   rules that were expressly approved by this Board. Finally, it appears
   that the matters of concern to the SAA can be adequately protected on
   appeal. See Alaska v. United States, 64 F.3d 1352 (9th Cir. 1995);
   Pullman Constr. Indus. v. United States, 23 F.3d 1166 (7th Cir. 1994).
   The CAA contemplates a streamlined, expeditious administrative dispute
   resolution process. The Hearing Officer's orders reflect a concern with
   the delay resulting from the barrage of motions already filed by the
   SAA. While there is undoubtedly a role in this process for appropriate
   writs, the expedited dispute resolution process contemplated by the CAA
   would be further frustrated by the granting of this petition for a writ
   of mandamus. For the forgoing reasons, the Board declines to exercise
   its discretion to issue a writ of mandamus. The petition is DENIED.1 1
   The Board also has before it the Motion of the Office of the United
   States Senate Sergeant at Arms to Disqualify the General Counsel of the
   Office of Compliance From Advising or Representing the Board of
   Directors for the Office of Compliance in Their Consideration of the
   SAA's Petition for Writ of Mandamus. Since the General Counsel has not
   sought nor been asked to play any such role, and since he has not done
   so, the motion is denied as moot. 2
