http://www.ffiec.gov/press.htm

   Skip Repetitive Links Federal Financial Institutions Examination
   Council Logo linking back to the home page.



      Site Index

                                            Search

                                                  Disclaimer

                                                            Privacy Policy


   What's New
   About the FFIEC
   Press Releases
   Reports
   Reporting Forms
   Handbooks & Catalogues
   Enforcement Actions
   and Orders
   On-line Information Systems


   Other FFIEC Sites
   Examiner Education Office
   Appraisal Subcommittee
   HMDA
   CRA


   Press Releases - Recent Releases (Full-Text)

            Recent Releases (Full-Text)    |    Archive Summaries
        Summary of FFIEC Statements Published in the Federal Register
                               (1979-current)

   December 14, 2001
   The September 30, 2001 Uniform Bank Performance Report (UBPR) now being
   distributed to all insured commercial banks and Federal Deposit
   Insurance Corporation - Insured Savings Banks (FDIC-ISB) is now
   available for sale to the public.

   September 13, 2001
   The June 30, 2001 Uniform Bank Performance Report (UBPR) now being
   distributed to all insured commercial banks and Federal Deposit
   Insurance Corporation - Insured Savings Banks (FDIC-ISB) is now
   available for sale to the public.

   August 8, 2001
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) today
   released guidance on the risks and risk management controls necessary
   to authenticate the identity of customers accessing electronic
   financial services.

   July 27, 2001
   The March 31, 2001 Uniform Bank Performance Report (UBPR) now being
   distributed to all insured commercial banks and Federal Deposit
   Insurance Corporation - Insured Savings Banks (FDIC-ISB) is now
   available for sale to the public.

   July 26, 2001
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) today
   announced the availability of data on small business, small farm, and
   community development lending reported by commercial banks and thrifts.
   From the data reported, the FFIEC prepares a disclosure statement, in
   electronic form, for each reporting commercial bank and savings
   association. The FFIEC also prepares aggregate reports for each of the
   metropolitan statistical areas and each of the nonmetropolitan counties
   in the United States and its territories.

   July 26, 2001
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) today
   announced the availability of data for the year 2000 regarding mortgage
   lending transactions at 7,713 financial institutions covered by the
   Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA) in metropolitan statistical areas
   (MSAs) throughout the nation. These data include disclosure statements
   for each financial institution, aggregate data for each metropolitan
   area, and nationwide summary statistics regarding lending patterns.

   July 6, 2001
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council today issued a
   Policy Statement on Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses (ALLL)
   Methodologies and Documentation for Banks and Savings Institutions.

   May 2, 2001
   The State Liaison Committee of the Federal Financial Institutions
   Examination Council has elected Nicholas J. Ketcha Jr. as its Chairman
   for the term beginning May 1, 2001 and expiring April 30, 2002.

   April 17, 2001
   Donna A. Tanoue, Chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation,
   was elected Chairman of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination
   Council for a two-year term beginning April 1.

   April 2, 2001
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC)
   announces the location and date for its 2001 Risk Management Planning
   Seminar.

   March 9, 2001
   The December 31, 2000 Uniform Bank Performance Report (UBPR) which is
   being distributed to all insured commercial banks and Federal Deposit
   Insurance Corporation - Insured Savings Banks (FDIC-ISB) is now
   available for sale to the public.

   February 28, 2001
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) issued a
   statement today regarding a major revision of Article 9 of the Uniform
   Commercial Code (UCC) and its effect on financial institutions.

   January 29, 2001
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) today
   announced the publication of "A Guide to CRA Data Collection and
   Reporting" (the CRA Data Guide) on the FFIEC's website.
   (www.ffiec.gov/cra).

   December 15, 2000
   The September 30, 2000 Uniform Bank Performance Report (UBPR) now being
   distributed to all insured commercial banks and Federal Deposit
   Insurance Corporation - Insured Savings Banks (FDIC-ISB) is now
   available for sale to the public.

   November 28, 2000
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council issued guidance
   today on financial institutions' management of risk arising from
   technology services supplied by outside firms.

   November 2, 2000
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) today
   announced that it has approved revisions to the reporting requirements
   for the Reports of Condition and Income (Call Report) for 2001.

   September 19, 2000
   The June 30, 2000 Uniform Bank Performance Report (UBPR) now being
   distributed to all insured commercial banks and Federal Deposit
   Insurance Corporation - Insured Savings Banks (FDIC-ISB) is now
   available for sale to the public.

   September 7, 2000
   The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Federal Reserve Board,
   Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and Office of Thrift
   Supervision are jointly requesting comment on a proposed Policy
   Statement on Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses (ALLL) Methodologies
   and Documentation for Banks and Savings Institutions.

   August 11, 2000
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) today
   announced the availability of data on small business, small farm, and
   community development lending reported by commercial banks and savings
   associations (including savings banks and savings and loan
   associations) under the Community Reinvestment Act regulations.

   August 08, 2000
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) today
   announced the availability of data about 1999 mortgage lending activity
   in metropolitan statistical areas (MSAs) and rural areas throughout the
   nation and also released nationwide summary statistics regarding
   lending patterns.

   July 19, 2000
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC)
   announced today the availability of data on 1999 mortgage lending
   transactions at individual lenders in metropolitan statistical areas
   (MSAs) throughout the nation. These data, in the form of disclosure
   statements, are available from the 7,833 lenders covered by the Home
   Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA).

   June 15, 2000
   The FFIEC announces the distribution of the March 31, 2000 Uniform Bank
   Performance Report (UBPR) now being distributed to all insured
   commercial banks and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation - Insured
   Savings Banks (FDIC-ISB) is now available for sale to the public.

   June 12, 2000
   Federal bank and thrift regulators today issued a revised policy to
   guide institutions when they classify or write off delinquent retail
   loans and lines of credit.

   May 30, 2000
   The State Liaison Committee of the Federal Financial Institutions
   Examination Council has re-elected G. Edward Leary as its Chairman for
   the term beginning May 1, 2000 and expiring April 30, 200l.

   May 01, 2000
   The FFIEC announced that Uniform Bank Performance Reports (UBPR) are
   now available in electronic format through the FFIEC website at
   www.ffiec.gov in the Information Services section. The financial
   information available spans 5 years and includes 20 consecutive
   quarters of data.

   April 19, 2000
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council announced today
   the appointments of Nicholas J. Ketcha Jr., Director of the Division of
   Banking in the New Jersey Department of Banking and Insurance, and
   Steven D. Bridges, Commissioner of the Department of Banking and
   Finance for the State of Georgia, to the Council's State Liaison
   Committee.

   March 21, 2000
   Through the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC),
   Bank, thrift, and credit union regulators issued today a Year 2000
   Lessons Learned document discussing lessons learned from the
   preparation for the Year 2000 date change, and urged financial
   institutions to incorporate the knowledge gained from that experience
   into future project and technology risk management.

   March 10, 2000
   The FFIEC announces the distribution of the December 31, 1999, Uniform
   Bank Performance Report (UBPR) to all insured commercial banks and
   Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation - Insured Savings Banks
   (FDIC-ISB), and its availability for sale to the public.

   March 3, 2000
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC)
   announces the location and date for its 2000 Risk Management Planning
   Seminar.

   January 18, 2000
   Federal banking agencies today issued an advisory letter about the
   practice of some financial institutions not reporting customer credit
   lines or high credit balances to credit bureaus.

   January 03, 2000
   On the first day of the Year 2000, the nation's banks, thrifts and
   credit unions are conducting business as usual, federal regulators
   said. No significant disruptions resulting from the century date change
   have been detected, the regulators added.

   December 10, 1999
   The September 30, 1999, Uniform Bank Performance Report (UBPR) is now
   being distributed to all insured commercial banks and Federal Deposit
   Insurance Corporation - Insured Savings Banks (FDIC-ISB), and is
   available for sale to the public. For the most part the formats for the
   commercial banks and the FDIC-ISB are identical, however, the FDIC-ISB
   have their own unique UBPR peer groupings.

   November 19, 1999
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) today
   issued an advisory to financial institutions concerning information
   security precautions during the century rollover period. Today's
   statement serves as a reminder of the FFIEC's previously issued
   guidance regarding the importance of maintaining an effective security
   program.

   September 15, 1999
   The June 30, 1999, Uniform Bank Performance Report (UBPR) is now being
   distributed to all insured commercial banks and Federal Deposit
   Insurance Corporation - Insured Savings Banks (FDIC-ISB), and is
   available for sale to the public. For the most part the formats for the
   commercial banks and the FDIC-ISBs are identical, however, the FDIC-ISB
   has their own unique UBPR peer groupings.

   August 02, 1999
   Federal bank, thrift, and credit union regulators announced today that
   99% of federally insured financial institutions have completed testing
   of critical systems for Year 2000 readiness.

   July 29, 1999
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) today
   announced the availability of data about 1998 mortgage lending activity
   in metropolitan areas and released analyses of nationwide summary
   statistics regarding lending patterns. The nationwide summary
   statistics are attached to this release; the following provides a
   general overview.

   July 29, 1999
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) today
   announced the availability of data on small business, small farm, and
   community development lending reported by commercial banks and savings
   associations (including savings banks and savings and loan
   associations) under the Community Reinvestment Act regulations.

   July 16, 1999
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC)
   announced today the availability of data on 1998 mortgage lending
   transactions at individual institutions in metropolitan areas
   throughout the nation. These data, in the form of disclosure
   statements, are available from the 7,837 lenders covered by the Home
   Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA).

   July 15, 1999
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC)
   announced today the release of a new CD-ROM software product, the 1999
   FFIEC Census Data CD-ROM, designed to help banks and thrifts comply
   with the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) and the Home Mortgage
   Disclosure Act (HMDA).

   July 6, 1999
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) today
   issued guidance urging financial institutions to review their fraud
   prevention programs to ensure that they are protecting themselves and
   their customers from Year-2000 related fraud.

   June 14, 1999
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC)
   announces the location and date for its 1999 Risk Management Planning
   seminar.

   June 11, 1999
   The March 31, 1999, Uniform Bank Performance Report (UBPR) is now being
   distributed to all insured commercial banks and Federal Deposit
   Insurance Corporation - Insured Savings Banks (FDIC-ISB), and is
   available for sale to the public. For the most part the formats for the
   commercial banks and the FDIC-ISBs are identical, however, the FDIC-ISB
   has their own unique UBPR peer groupings.

   May 26, 1999
   The State Liaison Committee of the Federal Financial Institutions
   Examination Council has elected G. Edward Leary as its Chairman. Mr.
   Leary is the Commissioner of the Department of Financial Institutions
   for the State of Utah with supervisory responsibility over banks,
   credit unions, industrial loan corporations, savings & loans, trust
   companies, depository institution holding companies, money
   transmitters, loan production offices, independent escrow agents,
   residential mortgage lenders, brokers and servicers.

   May 6, 1999
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) today
   issued additional answers to three frequently asked questions on Year
   2000 contingency planning. The FFIEC Q&A on Contingency Planning
   clarifies expectations concerning the completion of the validation
   phase of business resumption contingency planning by June 30, 1999,
   documentation requirements, and the role of "event planning" in the
   development of business resumption contingency plans.

   May 3, 1999
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) today
   announced the release of "Interagency Community Reinvestment Act
   Questions and Answers." The document, which is published in today's
   Federal Register, is available on the FFIEC's web site at:
   http://www.ffiec.gov/cra/qnadoc.htm.

   April 30, 1999
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council announced today
   the appointment by the National Association of State Credit Union
   Supervisors of James E. Forney, Iowa Superintendent of Credit Unions,
   to the Council's State Liaison Committee. He will replace Idaho
   Director of Finance Gavin M. Gee, whose terms has expired. Director Gee
   has served continuously since 1993. The Council is also announcing that
   the American Council of State Savings Supervisors has re-appointed
   Texas Savings and Loan Commissioner James L. Pledger to a second
   two-year term.

   March 19, 1999
   The December 31, 1998, Uniform Bank Performance Report (UBPR) is now
   being distributed to all insured commercial banks and Federal Deposit
   Insurance Corporation - Insured Savings Banks (FDIC-ISB), and is
   available for sale to the public. For the most part the formats for the
   commercial banks and the FDIC-ISBs are identical, however, the FDIC-ISB
   has their own unique UBPR peer groupings.

   February 17, 1999
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) today
   issued guidance to assist financial institutions with customer
   communications on the Year 2000. The Year 2000 Customer Communications
   Outline attached to the press release addresses key elements that a
   financial institution may wish to incorporate into its customer
   communication statements.

   February 10, 1999
   Federal financial institution regulators today announced they have
   updated and expanded policies for classifying delinquent retail
   credits. The Uniform Retail Credit Classification and Account
   Management Policy published in today's Federal Register updates and
   expands the classification policy for retail credit loans that was
   issued in 1980.

   January 5, 1999
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) today
   announced the release of core Interagency Fair Lending Examination
   Procedures (PDF) (with Appendix (PDF)) which establish a uniform set of
   procedures to be used by each of the FFIEC member agencies in their
   examinations for compliance with the broad, nondiscriminatory
   requirements of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and the Fair Housing
   Act.

   December 18, 1998
   The September 30, 1998 Uniform Bank Performance Report (UBPR) is now
   being distributed to all insured commercial banks and Federal Deposit
   Insurance Corporation - Insured Savings Banks (FDIC-ISB), and is
   available for sale to the public. For the most part the formats for the
   commercial banks and the FDIC-ISB's are identical; however, the
   FDIC-ISB has their own unique UBPR peer groupings.

   December 11, 1998
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) today
   issued answers to frequently asked questions on Year 2000 contingency
   planning. The FFIEC Q&A on Contingency Planning document clarifies
   expectations for completing remediation and business resumption
   contingency plans and it supplements previous FFIEC Year 2000 guidance.

   December 7, 1998
   Acting Comptroller of the Currency Julie L. Williams, Chairman of the
   Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, announced today the
   appointment of Keith J. Todd as Executive Secretary of the Council. Mr.
   Todd most recently served as the Council's Assistant Executive
   Secretary.

   November 5, 1998
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council announced today
   that its Washington, DC office will be relocating effective November
   9th, 1998.

   October 7, 1998
   The Task Force on Supervision, acting under delegated authority from
   the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC),
   announced today that it has approved an updated Uniform Interagency
   Trust Rating System (UITRS), and is recommending that FFIEC member
   agencies adopt and implement the updated rating system effective
   January 1, 1999.

   September 23, 1998
   The June 30, 1998 Uniform Bank Performance Report (UBPR) is now being
   distributed to all insured commercial banks and Federal Deposit
   Insurance Corporation - Insured Savings Banks (FDIC-ISB), and is
   available for sale to the public. For the most part the formats for the
   commercial banks and the FDIC-ISB's are identical, however, the
   FDIC-ISB has their own unique UBPR peer groupings.

   August 31, 1998
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) today
   issued Guidance on the Year 2000 that addresses commonly asked
   questions of concern to financial institutions and their service
   providers and software vendors. (Questions and Answers Concerning FFIEC
   Year 2000 Policy)

   August 28, 1998
   The FFIEC has added a new CRA Rating Search function to its Internet
   site http://www.ffiec.gov/cracf/crarating/main.cfm.

   August 24, 1998
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) today
   announced the availability of data on small business, small farm, and
   community development lending reported by commercial banks and savings
   associations (including savings banks and savings and loan
   associations) pursuant to the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA).

   August 6, 1998
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) today
   announced the availability of data about 1997 mortgage lending activity
   in metropolitan areas and released analyses of nationwide summary
   statistics regarding lending patterns.

   August 3, 1998
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC)
   announces the location and date for its 1998 Risk Management Planning
   seminar.

   July 15, 1998
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) has
   issued industry guidance on the consumer regulatory implications of
   emerging electronic banking technologies.

   July 14, 1998
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC)
   announced today the availability of data on 1997 mortgage lending
   transactions at individual institutions in metropolitan areas
   throughout the nation. These data, in the form of disclosure
   statements, are available from the 7,925 lenders covered by the Home
   Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA).

   July 8, 1998
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council's Task Force on
   Supervision today issued an updated work program for conducting Year
   2000 examinations in all Federally supervised banks, savings
   associations and credit unions, as well as service providers and
   certain software vendors supporting these financial institutions.

   July 6, 1998
   Federal bank regulators today issued proposals for retail credit
   classification policies and asked for public comments on two time-frame
   options for classifying retail loans. The policies would guide banks
   and bank regulators in classifying a consumer loan that is not being
   repaid under its original terms.

   July 6, 1998
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) issued a
   customer brochure on the Year 2000 date change. The brochure, entitled
   The Year 2000 Date Change, answers eight commonly asked questions
   concerning the effect of the Year 2000 date change. The brochure is
   also available on the Internet site of the Federal Financial
   Institutions Examination Council and the Federal Deposit Insurance
   Corporation.

   June 12, 1998
   The March 31, 1998 Uniform Bank Performance Report (UBPR) is now being
   distributed to all insured commercial banks and Federal Deposit
   Insurance Corporation - Insured Savings Banks (FDIC-ISB), and is
   available for sale to the public. For the most part the formats for the
   commercial banks and the FDIC-ISB's are identical, however, the
   FDIC-ISB has their own unique UBPR peer groupings.

   June 1, 1998
   The State Liaison Committee of the Federal Financial Institutions
   Examination Council has elected Thomas J. Curry as its Chairman. Mr.
   Curry is the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks with supervisory
   responsibility over state-chartered trust companies, savings banks,
   cooperative banks, credit unions, and credit licensees.

   May 1, 1998
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council announced today
   the appointment of Bill C. Houston, Tennessee Commissioner of Financial
   Institutions, and the re-appointment of Thomas J. Curry, Massachusetts
   Commissioner of Banks, to the Council's State Liaison Committee.

   April 23, 1998
   Today, federal depository institution regulatory agencies, acting
   jointly through the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
   (FFIEC), published the Supervisory Policy Statement on Investment
   Securities and End-User Derivatives Activities (1998 Statement). The
   1998 Statement provides guidance on sound practices for managing the
   risks of investment activities, with a particular emphasis on market
   risk (primarily interest rate risk).

   April 10, 1998
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) today
   issued guidance for financial institutions on testing for Year 2000
   readiness.

   March 17, 1998
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) today
   issued additional guidance for financial institutions on risks they
   face due to the Year 2000 date change -- risk from service providers
   and software vendors and from institutions' customers. Today's guidance
   follows previous FFIEC Year 2000 statements on project management and
   business risk.

   March 13, 1998
   The December 31, 1997 Uniform Bank Performance Report (UBPR) is now
   being distributed to all insured commercial banks and Federal Deposit
   Insurance Corporation - Insured Savings Banks (FDIC-ISB) and, is
   available for sale to the public.

   February 12, 1998
   The Federal Financial Institution Examination Council (FFIEC) has made
   available the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) Aggregate Reports for
   1996 through its world wide web site. This web site allows the public
   to retrieve and print aggregated small business and small farm loan
   data, and data on community development lending for an entire MSA or
   non-MSA area.

   December 17, 1997
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) issues
   guidance on Year 2000 business enterprise risk.

   December 12, 1997
   The Uniform Bank Performance Report (UBPR) by the Federal Financial
   Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC). It is now being distributed
   to all insured commercial banks and Federal Deposit Insurance
   Corporation - Insured Savings Banks (FDIC-ISB) and, is available for
   sale to the public.

   October 22, 1997
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC)
   announces the locations and dates for its 1998 Risk Management Planning
   Seminars.

   October 16, 1997
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC)
   announced today it will hold a one-day conference to examine the
   current regulatory capital framework in todays evolving financial
   services environment. The conference is scheduled for December 12,
   1997, in Washington, D.C.

   October 6, 1997
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) today
   announced an update of "Interagency Questions and Answers Regarding
   Community Reinvestment," its comprehensive interpretive document on the
   Community Reinvestment Act (CRA).

   October 3, 1997
   Today, federal depository institution regulatory agencies published for
   industry comment, proposed revisions to their supervisory guidelines
   for investment securities and end-user derivatives activities. The
   regulators, acting jointly through the Federal Financial Institutions
   Examination Council (FFIEC), are seeking comment on a set of sound
   practices that focus on the risk management of investment activities,
   with a particular emphasis on market risk (primarily interest rate
   risk).

   September 30, 1997
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) today
   announced the availability of data on small business, small farm, and
   community development lending reported by large commercial banks and
   savings associations (savings banks and savings and loan associations)
   subject to the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA).

   August 4, 1997
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) today
   announced the release of analyses of nationwide summary statistics
   regarding lending patterns on 1996 mortgage lending activity in
   metropolitan areas. The data reflect lending activity for more than
   9,300 institutions covered by the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA)
   that reported data to member agencies of the FFIEC.

   July 03, 1997
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC)
   announced today the availability of data on 1996 mortgage lending
   transactions at individual institutions in metropolitan areas
   throughout the nation. These data, in the form of disclosure
   statements, are available from the more than 9,300 lenders covered by
   the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA).

   May 15, 1997
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC)
   announces the location and date for its final 1997 Risk Management
   Planning Seminar.

   May 5, 1997
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council's Task Force on
   Supervision today issued an Interagency Statement for the banking
   industry and federal examiners, intended to focus their attention on
   the critical issues financial institutions need to address quickly to
   resolve Year 2000 computer problems and avoid major service
   disruptions.

   September 19, 1996
   The Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) is
   pleased to announce the publication of the 1996 FFIEC Information
   Systems Examination Handbook (Handbook). This interagency publication
   was sponsored by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System,
   Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, National Credit Union
   Administration, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and the
   Office of Thrift Supervision.


   -HOME-

   Note: Many of the documents available on-line are in Adobe Portable
   Document Format (PDF). Please visit our PDF help page for more
   information.

   Maintained by the FFIEC. All suggestions regarding this site may be
   forwarded via e-mail to ffiec-suggest@frb.gov.
   Last update: 12/17/2001 10:21 AM
