http://www-lblnet.lbl.gov/LBLnet/Non-lbl-Domains.htm



       LBLnet Services Group Domain Name Service


       Non-lbl.gov Domain Name Support       arrowsgn.wmf (1878 bytes)


         General Description and Rationale


   Since the mid 1990s, requests for non-lbl.gov domain name support has
   provided the LBLnet Services Group with impetus to create a service in
   support of such domain names; primarily for individual research
   projects. Though the rational to create these unique domains differs
   between research projects there are legitimate reasons to support these
   domains--an example is given for clarity.

   A common need for and application of these domain names is for web
   services that may differ radically from project to project. However,
   because each researcher has the common need to communicate his or her
   scientific efforts and perhaps experimental results, the web is the
   perfect medium to convey this information. Nevertheless, it is often
   difficult to obtain specific information through web searches.
   Accordingly some researchers have found it advantageous to use unique
   web domain names to ease this problem. Using names such as
   particleadventure.org is thought to simplify and help to identify the
   project being published on the web as opposed to
   particleadventure.lbl.gov. Further, such web sites often contain
   information collected from disparate collaborating groups. Furthermore,
   "lbl.gov" may inappropriately imply the project is an LBNL only
   research project.

   Issues Involving Support
   Over the long term unique, project related domain names are considered
   ephemeral as research projects and the associated collaborators come
   and go. These project oriented web sites are not considered analogous
   to a general laboratory web site because while the research occurring
   at a national laboratory may change; it’s the laboratory web site will
   remain. It is the contents of the web site that will change and that is
   dynamic. Thus, unlike the laboratory web site, it is expected that
   these unique project specific domain names—for a web site in this
   case--will come and go. Therefore, renewal and deletion of assigned
   domain names must be administered.

   The maintenance of domain names requires bi-annual payments to Network
   Solutions (the INTERNIC) and domain name systems (computer systems)
   require ongoing maintenance. Additionally, some effort is required to
   verify the ongoing need for the web site and administration will be
   necessary to keep contacts and other information current.

   General Support Policy
   Providing this service is intended to support research projects at LBNL
   and is expected to provide value to laboratory as well as the project
   requesting the domain name. Though the effort required to provide such
   services is not expected to be significant, superfluous domain name
   requests will not be honored. Requests made must be presented in
   writing (see below) and approved by the either the project principle
   investigator or a division or department head. Additionally, an account
   number must be supplied for the support effort and charges by the
   Network Systems Corporation. LBNL accounts that are closed without
   notification may result in the deletion the domain name.

   Charges
   The current charges levied by the Network Solutions (the INTERNIC) will
   be applied to the requesting clients account number by recharge.
   Additionally, charges for the effort required to fulfil the request
   will be included. Once the domain name has been established an ongoing
   monthly charge will occur against the requesting client’s account. This
   charge is intended to cover all effort and equipment maintenance
   involved in support the non-lbl.gov domain. The following details these
   charges:
     * Submission of Domain Name Request and Activation -- $200
     * Monthly Maintenance Charge -- $10
     * Domain Name Host Name Requests -- $0
     * Domain name deletion -- $0

   Who to Contact
   To request support for a non-lbl.gov domain name please send your
   request to, ip-request@lbl.gov, including the information noted above.
   Your request will be considered and you will be contacted within 3
   business days. The time from the request to activation of a new domain
   name is dependent upon the response time of the commercial INTERNET
   service provider "Network Solutions" and is beyond our direct control.
   Thus, if a request is urgent, no guarantee can be given on the domain
   activation timing.

   For question or comments please contact lblnet@lbl.gov or call x4559.

                           LBNL Logo
   Last Edited By: Ted G. Sopher Jr.
                 On: 9 December 1999
           Copyright © & Disclaimer
