http://www.pin.ed.gov/pin_services.htm


   Skip the navigation bars

   U.S. Department of Education Seal
 PIN Home PIN Request and Information Change Internet Access Security
                                                                      Contact Us
   PIN Request and Information Logo
   Apply for PIN
   Change PIN
   Check PIN Status
   Request a PIN be Mailed
   Change PIN Mailing Address
   PIN FAQs

Where Can I Use the PIN?

   You can use your PIN at these U.S. Department of Education Web sites:
     * FAFSA on the Web: Access and complete your Renewal Free Application
       for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and submit corrections to your
       processed FAFSA. You may also use your PIN to electronically sign
       your submitted FAFSA or obtain a copy of your processed FAFSA
       information.
     * The National Student Loan Data System Web site: View a history of
       the federal student financial aid you have received.
     * Direct Loan Origination: Use your PIN to access Direct Loan
       Entrance Counseling. You may complete Entrance Counseling over the
       Web and have the results sent to your school of choice
       electronically.
     * The Direct Loan Servicing: Use your PIN to access Direct Loan Exit
       Counseling. Use your PIN to get up-to-date account information,
       loan balances, and payoff information. Use our online repayment
       calculator to help you forecast repayment of your loan and contact
       our customer service staff by e-mail.
     * The Direct Loan Consolidation Web site: Your PIN will enable you to
       track the processing status of your online Consolidation Loan
       application throughout the entire consolidation process from
       application receipt to booking with Direct Loan Servicing.
     * You may also E-sign your Federal Direct or Federal Family Education
       Loan (FFEL) Master Promissory Note.
     * students.gov is the U.S. Government-wide initiative to deliver
       electronic, Web-based services from government agencies and
       organizations to postsecondary students. We are taking a lead on
       this initiative and are developing and testing services related to
       Web-based student financial aid.
     * Funding Your Educationis an introductory publication for students
       not yet enrolled in a postsecondary school, provides general
       information about the U.S. Department of Education's federal
       student financial aid programs and how to apply for them.
