http://www.oig.dol.gov/public/reports/sar/sar2001b.pdf

   This report is dedicated to the workers who lost their lives on
   September 11, 2001. United States Department of Labor Office of
   Inspector General Semiannual Report to the Congress April 1,
   2001September 30, 2001 Volume 46 Inspector General's Message It is an
   honor to transmit to the Secretary and the Congress the 46th Semiannual
   Report of the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) Office of Inspector
   General (OIG). During the period of April 1 through September 30, 2001,
   the OIG continued to direct its audit, evaluation, and investigation
   resources to activities that support its goals of effecting positive
   change and reducing vulnerabilities in departmental programs and
   operations, producing a positive return on invested resources, and
   providing quality services to stakeholders. Our work is intended to
   assist the Department in its efforts to improve the economic prospects
   of the unemployed and underemployed; protect the lives, health, and
   rights of workers; provide appropriate benefits to injured or
   unemployed workers; and ensure accountability over taxpayer dollars
   invested in departmental programs. The work of the OIG during this
   period resulted in $40 million in costs that were questioned or
   recommended be put to better use; over $35.2 million in investigative
   recoveries, restitutions, fines, and penalties; 182 indictments; and
   109 convictions. Through our oversight work, we provided information to
   the Department that one of the major programs for providing employment
   and training services to welfare recipients falls short in placing
   individuals in lasting unsubsidized employment. We also audited
   programs that assist workers who lose their jobs because of trade
   policies to obtain employment at suitable wages. We found that these
   programs only did so for 34% of the participants we reviewed. In
   addition, we identified ways that the Department can further protect
   miners from accidents and ways that the Department can protect its
   information technology systems from intrusions. From an investigative
   perspective, we found that worker benefits programs remain vulnerable
   to fraud and continued our proactive support of the government's
   efforts to combat labor racketeering, union corruption, and organized
   crime activity. Illustrative of our work in this area is the conviction
   of a former labor union official for his role in a multimillion-dollar
   fraud scheme involving several Chicago-based union pension plans and a
   labor organization. In addition to the work highlighted above, we are
   continuing to work with the Department to resolve any previously
   identified management issues or areas of concern. My staff and I look
   forward to continuing to work constructively with the Secretary and the
   DOL team to further our common goal of ensuring the effectiveness,
   efficiency, and integrity of the programs that serve and protect the
   American workforce. Gordon S. Heddell Inspector General Table of
   Contents Selected Statistics
   .......................................................................
   ............................................ 2 Significant Concerns
   .......................................................................
   ........................................ 3 Employment and Training
   Welfare-to-Work Program
   .......................................................................
   ........................... 13 Workforce Investment Act
   .......................................................................
   ........................... 17 Trade Programs
   .......................................................................
   .......................................... 18 America's Career Kit
   .......................................................................
   ................................... 20 Job Corps Program
   .......................................................................
   ..................................... 21 Foreign Labor Certification
   Programs
   .......................................................................
   ......... 22 Worker Benefits Programs Unemployment Insurance Program
   .......................................................................
   ............ 27 Office of Workers' Compensation Programs
   ......................................................................
   30 Medical Provider Fraud
   .......................................................................
   .......................... 30 Claimant Fraud
   .......................................................................
   ...................................... 32 Worker Safety, Health, and
   Workplace Rights Occupational Safety and Health Administration
   ................................................................. 37
   Mine Safety and Health Administration
   .......................................................................
   ....... 39 Davis-Bacon Act
   .......................................................................
   ......................................... 40 Departmental Management
   Information Technology
   .......................................................................
   .............................. 43 Audit Resolution
   .......................................................................
   .......................................... 45 Labor Racketeering
   Benefit Plan Investigations
   .......................................................................
   .......................... 49 Internal Union Investigations
   .......................................................................
   ....................... 53 Labor-Management Investigations
   .......................................................................
   .............. 55 Worker Exploitation
   .......................................................................
   ..................................... 56 Legislative Recommendations
   .......................................................................
   ...................... 57 Appendix
   .......................................................................
   ......................................................... 63 Semiannual
   Report to the Congress 1 April 1, 2001September 30, 2001 Selected
   Statistics of the OIG for the Period April 1, 2001September 30, 2001
   Total Questioned Costs
   .............................................................. $39.5
   million Investigative Recoveries, Cost Efficiencies, Restitutions,
   Fines/ Penalties, Forfeitures, and Civil Monetary Action
   .................. $35.2 million Dollars Resolved
   .......................................................................
   ... $9.4 million Allowed
   .......................................................................
   ............. $4.7 million Disallowed
   .......................................................................
   ........ $4.7 million Recommendations That Funds Be Put to Better Use
   .......................$503,930 Audit Reports Issued
   .......................................................................
   ........... 38 Evaluation Reports Issued
   .......................................................................
   ..... 3 Cases Opened
   .......................................................................
   ....................243 Cases Closed
   .......................................................................
   .................... 222 Cases Referred for Prosecution
   ............................................................... 185
   Cases Referred for Administrative/Civil Action
   ........................................... 12 Indictments
   .......................................................................
   ........................ 182 Convictions
   .......................................................................
   ........................ 109 Debarments
   .......................................................................
   ......................... 28 Note: The OIG conducts criminal
   investigations of individuals that can lead to prosecutions
   ("convictions") by criminal complaints, warrants, informations,
   indictments, or pretrial diversion agreements. Successful prosecutions
   may carry sentences such as fines, restitutions, forfeitures, or other
   monetary penalties. The OIG financial accomplishments, which include
   administrative and civil actions, are further detailed and defined in
   the appendix of this report. Improving Program Results Significant
   Concerns Significant Concerns The OIG works with the Department and
   Congress to provide information and assistance in achieving efficient
   and effective management of DOL programs. Our primary goals are to
   ensure that information provided will be useful in their management or
   oversight of the Department and to focus agency attention on
   mission-critical management problems and focus action to resolve them.
   The OIG has identified the following areas that we consider to be
   vulnerable to mismanagement, error, fraud, waste, or abuse.
   Effectiveness of the Employment and Training Programs After three
   decades the Department continues to face challenges in effectively
   administering a number of key employment and training programs. Recent
   OIG audits of programs designed to provide services to the
   hardest-to-serve populations, as well as audits of programs designed to
   serve skilled individuals who lose their jobs as a result of plant
   closings, demonstrate the Department's difficulty in this critical
   area. Welfare-to-Work Program: A recent audit disclosed that the
   Welfare- to-Work (WtW) competitive grant program, which is designed to
   provide services to the hardest-to-serve populations, falls short of
   keeping individuals in lasting unsubsidized employment. For example,
   our work disclosed that only 25% of our sample of 765 participants were
   continuously employed for more than six months. We also found that the
   numbers of competitive grant participants reported as placed in
   unsubsidized full-time and part-time employment were overstated by 27%
   and 43%, respectively. This example illustrates the challenges faced by
   the Employment and Training Administration (ETA) in obtaining quality
   performance data from its state partners. It is imperative that the
   Department move quickly to finalize WtW performance data collection and
   reporting requirements to achieve consistency, comparability, and
   accuracy of the data used to assess this $3 billion program's
   effectiveness. Dislocated Worker Program: The OIG remains concerned
   about the extent to which the Department's Dislocated Worker program,
   funded at nearly $1.6 billion, is providing retraining and support
   services to eligible dislocated workers. An OIG audit report found
   that, in 35% of the cases in our sample, program participants were
   ineligible or documentation was insufficient to establish their
   eligibility. We also raised concerns that the program's allocation
   process may not distribute funds to areas where they are most needed
   and that the Department needs to develop and provide further guidance
   in these areas. 4 Semiannual Report to the Congress April 1,
   2001September 30, 2001 Significant Concerns Trade Programs: Another
   example involves the Department's Trade programs, which are designed to
   assist individuals who have become unemployed or whose earnings have
   been reduced as a result of increased imports to return to suitable
   employment (i.e., work of an equal to or higher than skill level than
   the former employment that pays at least 80% of the former wage). A
   recent audit of the Trade programs found that only 34% of program
   participants found suitable employment and that the programs' unified
   reporting system was incomplete and contained inaccurate data. These
   examples highlight our concerns about the efficient and effective
   administration of the critical programs designed to assist unemployed
   or underemployed American workers. Financial Performance One of the
   Administration's five government-wide goals is improved financial
   performance. The Department has made great strides in financial
   reporting and has received clean audit opinions on its financial
   statements since FY 1997. However, DOL continues to face significant
   challenges in producing timely financial information that can be used
   in the day-to-day management of the Department. Therefore, the
   Department needs to change its focus from financial statement
   preparation to proactive management of its financial records. Financial
   events and transactions need to be recorded when they occur rather than
   at year-end. Key to this is vesting the necessary authority in the
   chief financial officer to provide direct oversight of all financial
   management operations of the various DOL agencies. Historically, the
   chief financial officer has not had this authority. Accountability:
   Budget and Performance Integration A major goal of the Administration
   is the integration of budget and performance to ensure that the
   government is results-oriented and guided by performance rather than
   process. Key to this is the Department's success in capitalizing on a
   number of statutory initiatives designed to improve the quality of
   program and cost data that serve as the basis for determining the
   results achieved by Federal programs and operations. With the passage
   of the Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA), Congress created
   a management process whereby Federal agencies develop strategic plans,
   articulate program goals, allocate Federal resources to meet desired
   performance levels, and measure and report program results. The quality
   and accessibility of such data, including data reported by entities
   below the Federal level, Semiannual Report to the Congress 5 April 1,
   2001September 30, 2001 Significant Concerns are of critical importance
   to the Department's GPRA reporting. Similarly, the Federal Accounting
   Standards Advisory Board's Statement of Federal Financial Accounting
   Standard Number 4, which became effective in FY 1998, is aimed at
   providing reliable and timely accounting for the full cost of Federal
   programs and activities. Quality of Program Data: The Department is
   limited in its ability to access and control the quality of program
   results data used to determine the attainment of its strategic plan
   goals. This includes difficulties associated with ensuring the quality
   of the myriad data provided by states and other sources below the
   Federal level, where 90% of the Department's budget is actually spent.
   Recent OIG audits of the WtW, Dislocated Worker, and Trade Act programs
   continue to disclose high error rates in performance data reported to
   the Department by its state partners. The errors affect performance
   measures, including participants' wages, training activities, and
   successes in obtaining jobs, that serve as key indicators in
   determining the outcomes and success of the program. ETA has initiated
   a data validation project to create more precise programming
   specifications and standards for use in validating data quality in
   Welfare- to-Work, Workforce Investment Act (WIA), and other programs
   administered by ETA. Ensuring the reliability of data reported by
   states is also a problem for the Veterans' Employment and Training
   Services (VETS), which operates most of its programs through the State
   Workforce Agencies. The OIG has been working closely with VETS to
   address this issue and also to improve data capacity, the quality of
   the agency's performance measures, and the timeliness of reporting.
   Data Limitations: Two important tenets of GPRA are that agencies must
   evaluate program effectiveness and validate performance data. In the
   employment and training area, it is particularly important to know
   whether programs have resulted in individuals becoming self-sufficient
   by obtaining long-term unsubsidized employment at livable wages. Two
   important tools that may be used to this end are Unemployment Insurance
   and Social Security Administration wage records of individual program
   participants. However, the Department is limited in its ability to
   obtain such data for program evaluation and validation purposes. To
   enhance its ability to conduct program evaluation and validation in
   this and other equally important areas, the Department needs to have
   statutory authority to easily obtain and utilize these types of
   records. This legislative need is further discussed in the Legislative
   Recommendations section of this report. Managerial Cost Accounting:
   Once performance data are determined to be reliable, managerial cost
   accounting, which matches cost information with program results, is the
   next step in managing for results. 6 Semiannual Report to the Congress
   April 1, 2001September 30, 2001 Significant Concerns During FY 1999,
   the Department began implementing the managerial cost accounting (MCA)
   standard through agency pilot programs. It was planned that the
   low-level structures developed in the pilot studies would ultimately be
   aggregated to result in an integrated agency-wide MCA system. However,
   the Department recently abandoned this "bottom-up" approach and is
   presently focusing on initiating a "top-down" alternative approach to
   the implementation of managerial cost accounting. This new effort will
   be defined by desegregating high-level agency activities into their
   components. The OIG will review the revised departmental MCA
   implementation plans and specific agency or program implementation
   efforts and will continue our internal cost accounting efforts. It is
   vitally important that DOL ensure that performance and cost information
   generated are accurate, accessible and auditable in order for DOL's
   GPRA reporting to be credible. Security of Pension Assets The security
   of pension assets is a priority of the Department and of the OIG. This
   includes ensuring that weaknesses, vulnerabilities, and criminal
   activity are identified and addressed. One area of concern involves
   private pension plans, which serve as an attractive target for
   organized crime elements, corrupt pension plan officials, and
   individuals who influence the investment activity of pension assets.
   Labor racketeering investigations of pension plan monies that are
   jointly administered by labor union representatives and management
   representatives (Taft-Hartley plans) have elevated the OIG's concern
   over the security of the assets in this segment of the pension plan
   universe. OIG pension plan investigations have uncovered multi-million
   dollar fraud enterprises by financial and investment service providers.
   These investigations continue to reveal abuses by sophisticated
   investment advisors and pension plan administrators who have the
   opportunity and ability to structure complex financial schemes to
   conceal their criminal activity. The OIG is concerned about abuses by
   financial investment service providers because of the potential for
   multi-million dollar losses, since they typically provide investment or
   financial advice for more than one plan. Based on recent investigative
   results and the fact that service providers typically control the
   investment of hundreds of millions of dollars of pension funds, the OIG
   has identified this area of the pension arena as especially vulnerable
   to organized crime activity and abuse. Semiannual Report to the
   Congress 7 April 1, 2001September 30, 2001 Significant Concerns
   Protection of Worker Benefits Funds The Department administers several
   programs and statutes designed to provide and protect the benefits of
   workers. Protection of such benefits is critically important because
   they affect the lives of millions of workers and retirees and involve
   billions of taxpayer dollars. The OIG has identified serious
   vulnerabilities within three of the Department's major worker benefits
   programs: the Unemployment Insurance (UI), Federal Employees'
   Compensation, and Black Lung Benefits programs. Of particular concern
   to the OIG is the UI program, which was recently cited as one of the
   top 10 worst managed programs in government. As with any multi-billion
   dollar benefits payment program, there are those who benefit from the
   UI program illegally. Through oversight of this program, we have
   identified a number of schemes used to defraud the program including
   fraudulent employer schemes, internal embezzlement schemes, fraudulent
   interstate claims, and the fraudulent collection of UI benefits by
   illegal aliens and others through the use of counterfeit or unissued
   Social Security numbers. Further, our investigations have disclosed
   that the ability to file electronic and mail claims has presented
   individuals with the opportunity to defraud multiple states from a
   single location. The OIG is very concerned about the continued
   proliferation of these types of schemes against the UI program, as they
   have resulted in substantial losses to the UI Trust Fund. We believe
   that there is a need for increased training of state employees in fraud
   detection techniques, improved internal program controls, and improved
   enforcement. In addition, systemic weaknesses pose problems for the UI
   system, including loss of contributions due to the inability of states
   to search for hidden wages paid by employers who misclassify workers as
   independent contractors, employers who fail to report all wages paid,
   or employers who misrepresent their claims experience. Information
   Technology and Electronic Government Challenges One of the
   Administration's goals is the expansion of electronic government. This
   presents challenges for the Department in ensuring the security of its
   information technology (IT) assets, the seamless implementation of its
   new IT architecture, and the integrity of its benefits program in an
   electronic government environment. Security of IT Assets: DOL currently
   operates 67 mission-critical information systems. The Department relies
   on these critical information systems to monitor and analyze the
   nation's labor market and economic activities, manage workforce
   services, and protect and compensate American workers. Recent OIG
   audits revealed specific vulnerabilities in computer security and
   protection of assets. Further, the Department is implementing new IT
   architecture and is modernizing its IT systems. Although the Department
   has been proactive in moving to correct 8 Semiannual Report to the
   Congress April 1, 2001September 30, 2001 Significant Concerns
   weaknesses as they are identified, the Department needs to be more
   vigilant and to secure its major systems against threats and loss of
   assets. This requires a chief information officer (CIO) with sufficient
   authority and organizational independence from other agencies within
   the Department. Currently, the CIO is also responsible for numerous
   administrative functions of the Department that may either divert
   attention from or conflict with the IT responsibilities. Program
   Integrity in an Electronic Environment: The Department of Labor and its
   program partners, like many organizations, are moving from a paper
   environment to an electronic one for the delivery of services,
   benefits, and program administration. The use of automated procedures
   and Internet communications has the potential to broaden the range of
   services, increase hours of operation, and reduce administrative costs.
   However, this move also brings a new and increased risk of misuse,
   fraud, and monetary loss. This has been evidenced in recent OIG
   casework in worker benefits programs. Therefore, to ensure program
   integrity, the Department must assess the risks involved and utilize a
   comprehensive, integrated approach of oversight and enforcement. The
   OIG is also adapting its audit plan to assist the Department in
   addressing the challenges it faces in this new environment. For
   example, State Workforce Agencies are currently upgrading and
   modernizing their operations to offer customers telephone and Internet
   access to selected services. These services include UI claims filing,
   employer registration, employer wage and tax reporting, and appeals
   filing. The OIG will conduct audits in four to seven states in FY 2002
   to determine the effectiveness of system security. Rapid Expansion of
   the Bureau of International Labor Affairs Program The Bureau of
   International Labor Affairs (ILAB) assists in formulating international
   economic, trade, and immigration policies affecting American workers.
   ILAB is also responsible for spotlighting significant international
   child labor issues and contributing to the development and
   implementation of U.S. policy on international child labor. The
   increasing concern over child labor issues resulted, in part, in an
   almost sevenfold increase in ILAB's appropriations during the last two
   fiscal years. However, the OIG's evaluation and audit work raised
   concerns over ILAB's management structure, managerial controls over
   grant programs, program results, evaluation methods, and the roles and
   responsibilities of individual staff to account for this increased
   level of funding adequately. Now that ILAB has had a year to operate an
   expanded program, we intend to look at how effective the agency has
   been in addressing our previous concerns. Semiannual Report to the
   Congress 9 April 1, 2001September 30, 2001 Enhancing Opportunities for
   America's Workforce Employment and Training The Department of Labor
   provides assistance to those new to the labor force and those wishing
   to improve their potential to achieve success in today's job market.
   The Department provides opportunities for individuals to obtain the
   skills necessary to succeed in the global economy, close the employment
   gap for out-of-school youth, and increase long-term jobs for people as
   they move from welfare to work. The OIG works to optimize the use of
   funds appropriated for training and employment programs by enhancing
   program performance and accountability. This includes providing
   oversight to ensure the overall efficiency and effectiveness of DOL's
   progress in moving welfare recipients away from public assistance and
   into training, jobs, and self-sufficiency. Employment and Training
   Welfare-to-Work Program The purpose of the Welfare-to-Work (WtW)
   program is to prepare hard- to-employ long-term welfare recipients and
   other eligible individuals for, and place them into, lasting
   unsubsidized employment. WtW activities should be grounded in the
   "work-first" philosophy of the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families
   program established under the Personal Responsibility and Work
   Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996, the legislative centerpiece of
   welfare reform. In FYs 1998 and 1999, $3 billion was authorized for WtW
   grants and approximately $700 million of this amount was awarded to
   grantees selected through a competitive grant process carried out in
   three separate rounds, with the remainder distributed by formula to the
   states. The competitive grants were intended to develop innovative
   approaches to serve the targeted population. Welfare-to-Work
   Competitive Grant Program Falls Short of Meeting Program Objectives The
   OIG performed an audit to assess the effectiveness of the WtW
   competitive grant program. Our audit scope included performance data
   reported by 19 randomly selected first- and second-round competitive
   grantees as of September 30, 2000. In addition, we analyzed employment
   and earnings outcomes obtained for a random sample of 765 participants
   served by the 19 grantees we audited. Among our findings were the
   following: * The program falls short of keeping individuals in lasting
   unsubsidized employment. For example, only 25% of our sample of 765
   participants were continuously employed for more than six months. At
   the time of our audit, the grantees did not know the current employment
   status of 25% of the employed participants in our sample. * Program
   data were not reliable. We found significant errors in data that
   contributed to ETA's computed WtW performance measures. Specifically,
   from our sample, we projected that the numbers of competitive grant
   participants reported as placed in unsubsidized full-time and part-time
   employment were overstated by 27% and 43%, respectively. We also
   projected that the number of participants reported as retained six
   months in unsubsidized employment was overstated by 86%. We further
   found that 13 of the 17 sample grantees that reported earnings gains to
   ETA used improper and unsupportable methodologies to compute the
   Semiannual Report to the Congress 13 April 1, 2001September 30, 2001
   Employment and Training Welfare-to-Work Program measure and that 11
   grantees reported earnings gains on a cumulative rather than
   quarter-by-quarter basis, contrary to reporting instructions. *
   Grantees in our sample did not report consistent and accurate
   performance data. * While ETA had made numerous efforts to train
   grantees concerning the reporting requirements, ETA's monitoring visits
   did not include attempts to verify the accuracy and completeness of
   reported performance data. * WtW evaluation studies (current and
   planned) will not provide ETA with the information necessary to
   determine which innovative approaches or interventions worked and which
   did not. The evaluations measure only specific grantee operations,
   which may not necessarily reflect the WtW competitive grant program as
   a whole. To improve services to those participants served by WtW
   grantees and provide a solid foundation for evaluating the WtW
   competitive grant program, we recommend that ETA: * require grantees to
   follow up with participants in unsubsidized employment to determine
   whether additional services are needed to ensure employment retention;
   * conduct data validation reviews at the grantee level to ensure that
   the performance data being reported are accurate and complete; and *
   work with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to reexamine
   the current approach being used to evaluate the WtW competitive grant
   program. We recommend that a national evaluation be designed to assess
   the innovative approaches being used to move welfare recipients from
   welfare dependency to economic self-sufficiency. In the response to our
   report, ETA agreed with and stated that it will implement each of the
   reported recommendations. (OA Report No. 03- 01-007-03-386, issued
   September 28, 2001) Common Problems Found in WtW Grants In addition to
   the national-level audit of competitive grant performance data, the OIG
   performed audits of discrete WtW grants. The OIG has issued two reports
   on the results of postaward surveys of 47 competitive WtW grantees (OA
   Report Nos. 05-99-008-03-386, issued March 24, 1999, and
   05-99-020-03-386, issued September 20, 1999). 14 Semiannual Report to
   the Congress April 1, 2001September 30, 2001 Employment and Training
   Welfare-to-Work Program While we determined that the competitive
   grantees overall possessed adequate delivery capability, we found
   financial and program vulnerabilities. Financial vulnerabilities
   included weaknesses in internal controls over cost limitations,
   management information systems, cash management, and financial and
   programmatic reporting. These vulnerabilities, if not corrected, could
   result in millions of dollars of wasteful spending. Program
   vulnerabilities included inadequate agreements with Temporary
   Assistance for Needy Families agencies and subrecipients, insufficient
   eligibility procedures, lack of written policies and procedures, and
   noncompliance with minimum wage requirements and the WtW's "work-first"
   focus. These vulnerabilities, if not corrected, could impair the
   ability of grantees to move hard-to- employ welfare recipients into
   unsubsidized jobs and economic self- sufficiency. We followed up the
   surveys with financial and compliance audits of three WtW grantees
   (DePaul University [Illinois]; Indianapolis Private Industry Council
   [Indiana]; and Chicago Housing Authority [Illinois]) to determine
   participant eligibility and the allowability of costs claimed. Each
   report contained questioned costs because of ineligible participants
   and inadequate support for grant expenditures, and collectively we
   questioned $247,110. Other findings included the following: *
   Participants were misclassified in the database, which inaccurately
   skewed subcategories of expenditures and participants (but not the
   totals). * The two Illinois grantees needed to obtain sufficient
   eligibility evidence from the Illinois Department of Human Services for
   their WtW participants. * Two grantees lacked a system to classify
   expenditures as required by the WtW legislation, and the third grantee
   did not follow its cost allocation plan to allocate expenditures to the
   required classifications. * Two grantees did not report consistent and
   accurate financial and performance data on the financial status reports
   they submitted to ETA. Grantee officials generally concurred with our
   findings and identified actions they have taken or plan to implement to
   address our recommendations. (OA Report Nos. 05-01-003-03-386, issued
   July 27, 2001; 05-01-004-03-386, issued September 24, 2001; and 05-
   01-005-03-386, issued September 25, 2001) Semiannual Report to the
   Congress 15 April 1, 2001September 30, 2001 Employment and Training
   Welfare-to-Work Program $3.3 Million Welfare-to-Work Contract
   Terminated by DOL Based on the results of an OIG investigation, ETA
   terminated a $3.3 million contract with Mississippi Action for
   Community Education (MACE) on May 31, 2001. On April 26, 2001, MACE's
   president and CEO was indicted on 14 charges of false statements and
   theft concerning programs receiving Federal funds. ETA awarded MACE a
   $3.3 million WtW grant in September 1999 to train and employ
   participants in the construction of pre-engineered homes. The
   investigation revealed that program participants were utilized to
   construct a fence at the president's personal residence using funds
   drawn from a DOL account. ETA subsequently examined MACE's records and
   found significant programmatic and financial problems. This is a joint
   investigation with the Corporation for National and Community Services.
   Former Finance Director for Nonprofit Corporation Charged in
   Connecticut On September 5, 2001, the former finance director of a
   nonprofit corporation that provides services to low-income families and
   another individual who owned several printing companies were indicted
   on state charges of larceny and conspiracy for misusing WtW grant
   funds. The nonprofit was awarded a WtW grant of nearly $3 million in
   January 1999 to provide services to 1,200 welfare recipients through
   January 2002. The investigation revealed that between 1996 and 2001,
   the nonprofit corporation fraudulently paid over $1 million (of which
   over $47,000 was WtW grant monies) for nonexistent supplies and
   services through invoices approved by the finance director. In turn,
   the printing company owner kicked back at least $235,000 to the
   director. This is a joint effort with the Department of Housing and
   Urban Development OIG and the Connecticut State's Attorney's Office. 16
   Semiannual Report to the Congress April 1, 2001September 30, 2001
   Employment and Training Workforce Investment Act The Workforce
   Investment Act (WIA) became effective on July 1, 2000. The system WIA
   established is intended to be customer-focused, in order to give
   American workers access to information and tools they need to manage
   their careers, and to help U.S. companies find skilled workers.
   Questioned Costs and Weak Internal Control Identified in Role Models
   America Under a special provision in WIA, ETA awarded a 2-year, $10
   million WIA grant to Role Models America, Inc. (RMA), to provide
   education, training, and other services in a residential setting to
   out-of-school youth facing serious barriers to employment. The RMA
   curriculum, which is intended to serve out-of-school youth from all
   over the nation, includes vocational training and secondary school
   course work leading to a high school diploma and possibly to higher
   education. Mentors, academic tutors, and counselors serve as role
   models for the students. The OIG performed a financial and compliance
   audit of the costs claimed by RMA from June 2000 (grant commencement)
   through March 2001. For the audit period, RMA reported $6.65 million in
   grant costs to ETA. Based on our audit, we were able to accept only
   $4.33 million of this amount. RMA was unable to support $2.05 million
   in purported cost accruals that were not recorded in its books. We
   questioned $262,000 in costs that were not allowable under the grant.
   We determined that serious internal control problems existed with RMA's
   accounting system and that it maintained excessive cash balances. The
   most significant issue noted was $2.05 million in claimed costs that
   were not supported by RMA's general ledger. On further inquiry, RMA was
   unable to provide any documentation to support these claimed costs. We
   questioned $262,000 because the charges were personal expenses of RMA's
   president and CEO, were for services that did not benefit the grant, or
   were not properly supported. Types of questioned costs included
   mortgage payments, salary expenses, repayment of loans, rental
   payments, furniture, and others. Further, we determined that while RMA
   had an average of approximately $23,000 to $85,000 in cash expenditures
   every three days, the grantee maintained an excessive daily Federal
   cash balance that ranged from $400,000 to more than $1.5 million. RMA
   did not agree with the majority of the OIG findings and claimed that it
   had been authorized to treat the costs in the manner it did. We
   recommended that ETA recover the improper expenditures to the grant,
   seek documentation from RMA to support the unsupported questioned
   costs, and take steps to ensure the adequacy of RMA's accounting
   system. (OA Report No. 21-01-200-03-390, issued September 27, 2001)
   Semiannual Report to the Congress 17 April 1, 2001September 30, 2001
   Employment and Training Trade Programs For nearly 40 years, Federal
   programs to assist workers affected by foreign trade policies have been
   a key component of Federal domestic initiatives. The 1974 Trade
   Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program was designed to assist individuals
   who become unemployed or whose earnings are reduced as a result of
   increased imports. The program's goal is to return them to suitable
   employment (work of an equal to or higher than skill level than the
   former employment that pays at least 80% of the former wage). The
   purpose of a companion program, the 1993 North American Free Trade
   AgreementTransitional Adjustment Assistance (NAFTA-TAA) program, is to
   help those who have lost their employment or whose earnings have been
   reduced as a result of trade with Canada or Mexico. TAA and NAFTA-TAA
   are collectively called the Trade programs. These programs offer
   eligible participants identical trade readjustment allowances,
   training, and job search and relocation allowances. States were
   provided $369 million in FY 1999 for training, job search, relocation,
   and monetary allowances. Trade Programs Produce Mixed Results and
   Reported Data Are Not Reliable The OIG audited the Trade programs FY
   1999 performance by examining the results of the programs for over 700
   participants in 16 states. Generally, program participants' training
   needs were adequately assessed, as 91% received some training and 72%
   found jobs when they left the program. Also, those participants who
   received training fared somewhat better than those who did not.
   However, the programs were less effective in helping participants
   recover their wages. For example, we found that: * only 34% of program
   participants found suitable employment (work of an equal to or higher
   than skill level than the former employment that pays at least 80% of
   the former wage); and * only 22% of the program participants obtained
   program-assisted suitable employment (i.e., found suitable employment
   and either credited the Trade programs with helping them find their
   jobs or were determined by the OIG to be employed in training-related
   occupations). While many factors contributed to the low suitable
   employment placement rate, some of which were out of the control of the
   service providers, the OIG believes that greater emphasis by the
   service 18 Semiannual Report to the Congress April 1, 2001September 30,
   2001 Employment and Training Trade Programs providers on employment
   outcomes, post-program follow-up, and program evaluation could have
   produced better results. The OIG also audited the Trade programs'
   unified reporting system and found that it was incomplete and contained
   inaccurate data. The recording of information in the reporting system
   often bore little relationship to what had occurred in the programs,
   was generally viewed as a troublesome imposition, and was often
   ignored. It is particularly noteworthy that the central program
   weakness found through this audit, the lack of useful information on
   the program's effectiveness, had been identified as a major problem in
   a 1993 OIG audit report of the TAA program. (OA Report No.
   05-93-008-03-330) We recommended that ETA increase its monitoring of
   the accuracy of reported participant data and ensure that state program
   goals are translated to the local level and that states have clear,
   uniform program termination procedures as their trade adjustment
   activities are an integral part of their program evaluation and
   monitoring systems. In response, ETA stated that it will continue to
   work with states to ensure that local administrators are aware of
   program expectations. It also stated that improvements in program
   evaluation and monitoring will be implemented in FY 2002 through the
   use of a new program review guide. ETA also believes that refinements
   to its recently implemented participant reporting system, which it
   plans to operate in-house, should address the concerns with the
   accuracy and completeness of data. ETA disagreed with our application
   of suitable employment as a measure of the programs' success. Although
   ETA adopted a wage replacement performance goal for the Trade programs
   in FY 2000 and has applied one each year since, it argued that the
   concept of suitable employment was intended as only one of several
   criteria to be used in decisions concerning an individual participant's
   training and income support benefits. ETA believes that its
   wage-replacement goal, which is calculated on the average of all
   program participants' wages, is a more appropriate measure of program
   performance. (OA Report No. 04-01- 009-03-330, issued September 26,
   2001) Semiannual Report to the Congress 19 April 1, 2001September 30,
   2001 Employment and Training America's Career Kit America's Career Kit
   (ACK) is an Internet-based comprehensive resource for Americans needing
   job search assistance, career guidance, salary data, and training and
   educational resources. Since 1997, ACK has received total DOL funding
   of $116.5 million, including $42.5 million for the current program
   year. America's Career Kit Needs to be Focused on Program Outcomes and
   the Needs of Stakeholders The OIG evaluated ETA's development and
   implementation of ACK. Our evaluation of ACK focused on issues related
   to America's Job Bank, ACK's most widely used tool. We determined that
   the overall effectiveness of the Job Bank is difficult to assess
   because the current performance measure does not capture all aspects of
   Job Bank performance. The Job Bank's only performance standard for PY
   1999 was a 1% increase in the number of jobs posted on the web site. We
   recommended that in order to fully assess the performance of the Job
   Bank, ETA consider measuring usage (web site utilization) and utility
   (to what degree the web site aids individuals in finding employment).
   The current performance measures address program outputs rather than
   program outcomes. ETA has conducted a study of employer satisfaction,
   but job seeker customer service has received significantly less
   attention. As job seekers are at the center of the purpose of the Job
   Bank, we recommend that ETA devote significant effort to analyzing job
   seeker satisfaction. Moreover, the current version of the Job Bank
   needs to further address the compliance needs of three equal employment
   opportunity agencies in the Department of Labor's Office of Federal
   Contract Compliance Programs, the Civil Rights Center, and the
   Veterans' Employment and Training Service. ETA generally agreed with
   our recommendations. (OCIE Report No. 2E-03-390-0002, issued September
   27, 2001) 20 Semiannual Report to the Congress April 1, 2001September
   30, 2001 Employment and Training Job Corps Program Job Corps was
   established in 1964 and is presently authorized under Title I, Subtitle
   C of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998. The overall purpose of the
   program is to provide economically disadvantaged youth with the
   opportunity to become more responsible and employable citizens. With
   annual funding of over $1 billion, Job Corps is the largest Federal
   youth employment and training program and serves approximately 70,000
   youths a year. Operations of the program are carried out at 118
   residential facilities that provide a comprehensive and intensive array
   of academic training, vocational training, job placement, and support
   services to at- risk youths and young adults. Former Job Corps Employee
   Receives Six Years in Prison for Theft Kenneth Wilson, a former Joliet
   Job Corps Center employee, was sentenced on September 4, 2001, to six
   years in prison following his guilty plea to charges of unlawful use of
   a credit card. The investigation revealed that Wilson took and used a
   government-issued credit card when he left his position at the center.
   Also indicted during this period were his wife and a friend on state
   charges of unlawful use of a credit card (the friend was also indicted
   on charges of forgery). The investigation revealed that Wilson, his
   wife, and the friend had allegedly used the credit card to purchase
   pre-paid debit cards to buy food and other items, totaling about
   $5,000. This investigation is a joint effort with the Government
   Services Administration (GSA) OIG and the Naperville, Illinois, Police
   Department. U.S. v. Wilson, et al. (State of Illinois) Semiannual
   Report to the Congress 21 April 1, 2001September 30, 2001 Employment
   and Training Foreign Labor Certification Programs The Department of
   Labor's foreign labor certification programs are designed to provide
   employers access to foreign workers in specialty occupations or in
   areas in which there is a shortage of American workers. The program is
   supposed to ensure that the admission of aliens to work in the United
   States on a permanent or temporary basis does not adversely affect the
   job opportunities, wages, and working conditions of American workers or
   legal resident aliens. The H-1B Visa Specialty Workers program is
   intended to allow U.S. businesses to compete in a global market in
   order to respond to rapid advances in technology. It requires employers
   who intend to employ foreign specialty-occupation workers temporarily
   to file labor condition applications with the Department stating that
   appropriate wage rates will be paid and workplace guidelines followed.
   Proper worker documentation must accompany these applications before a
   visa is issued. Under current law, the Department is required to
   certify applications unless it determines the applications to be
   "incomplete or obviously inaccurate." OIG audits and investigations
   have shown that the individuals allowed into the United States under
   this program often lack the specialized skills necessary for meeting
   the requirements for H-1B visas. The OIG continues to identify fraud in
   the foreign labor certification programs, with the majority of cases
   involving the H-1B temporary work visa program. These cases involve
   fraudulent petitions that are filed with DOL on behalf of fictitious
   companies and corporations, individuals who file petitions using the
   names of legitimate companies and corporations without their knowledge
   or permission, and immigration attorneys and labor brokers who collect
   fees and file fraudulent applications on behalf of aliens. California
   Landlord Sentenced to Eight Years and Ordered to Pay $2 Million in
   Restitution Lakireddy Reddy, of Berkeley, California, was sentenced on
   June 19, 2001, to eight years in prison, was ordered to register with
   the State of California as a sex offender, and was required to pay $2
   million in restitution to seven young girls whom he victimized. Reddy
   pled guilty in March 2001 to charges of conspiracy to bring aliens into
   the United 22 Semiannual Report to the Congress April 1, 2001September
   30, 2001 Employment and Training Foreign Labor Certification Programs
   States illegally, aiding and abetting, transportation of a minor in
   foreign commerce for illegal sexual activity, and making a false
   statement on a tax return. The investigation revealed that Reddy, other
   family members, and other individuals had carried out a widespread
   conspiracy since 1986 to bring at least 25 Indian nationals, including
   young females for Reddy's sexual services and cheap labor, into the
   United States through fraudulent abuse of the H-1B visa program. This
   was a joint investigation with the Immigration and Naturalization
   Service (INS), the FBI, the IRS Criminal Investigations Division (CID),
   and the City of Berkeley Police Department. U.S. v. Reddy, et al. (N.D.
   California) Visa Fraud Ringleader Sentenced to One Year in Prison and
   Ordered to Pay over $270,000 in Restitution On April 20, 2001, Matahom
   "Pearl" Scully, a former immigration consultant in San Francisco,
   California, was sentenced to a year in prison and was ordered to pay
   over $270,000 in restitution. The sentencing followed her guilty plea
   in connection with her involvement in a visa fraud scheme with Los
   Angeles attorney Mae Galvez-Lanton, who had previously been sentenced
   on June 19, 2001, to three years' probation and ordered to pay a $9,000
   fine. In addition, on April 10, 2001, Scully's co-conspirator, Danny
   Reyes, controller of Golden State Health Care, a California firm
   specializing in convalescent care, was sentenced to two years'
   probation after cooperating with the investigation. Over a three-year
   period, Scully and Reyes filed hundreds of fraudulent petitions for
   Filipino aliens seeking admission to the United States through the H-1B
   visa program. The H-1B program is intended to bring in highly skilled
   foreign workers for jobs for which no Americans are available. Instead,
   Scully and Reyes placed the foreign workers in low- skilled, low-paying
   jobs, such as janitors, certified nursing assistants, and maintenance
   staff. This was a joint investigation with the INS and the Department
   of State. U.S. v. Scully, et al. (N.D. California) Texas Company CEO
   Pleads Guilty in Visa Fraud Scheme On September 5, 2001, Heyn Naude,
   CEO of Brexicom, Inc., of Austin, Texas, pled guilty to charges of
   conspiracy, visa fraud, and making false statements. The investigation
   revealed that from July 2000 to March 2001, Naude filed 42 H-1B visa
   petitions on behalf of South African information technology
   professionals, claiming that Brexicom would hire the visa applicants as
   systems analysts, earning $42,000 Semiannual Report to the Congress 23
   April 1, 2001September 30, 2001 Employment and Training Foreign Labor
   Certification Programs per year. The investigation disclosed that Naude
   falsified information on the forms he submitted to DOL and the INS,
   because Brexicom had no jobs available for applicants when they entered
   the country. Once the applicants arrived in the United States, they
   were instructed by Naude to find their own jobs through Internet web
   sites, yet he had charged each applicant between $850 and $2,330 to
   process the H-1B visa application. This investigation was conducted
   jointly with the INS. U.S. v. Naude (W.D. Texas) Company Officials
   Sentenced for Hiring Illegal Aliens On August 24, 2001, Construction
   Personnel, Inc. (CPI), a Tennessee- based asbestos abatement company,
   company president Roy Weaver, company vice president Ron Goodwin, and
   an employee, Tina Voiles, were sentenced following their guilty pleas
   to charges of conspiracy, immigration violations, wire fraud, and money
   laundering. Voiles received a year's probation after pleading guilty to
   an immigration violation. Goodwin was sentenced to a year in jail, and
   CPI and Weaver each received three years' probation and fines.
   Collectively, the company and its officials were ordered to pay over
   $328,000 in restitution. The investigation showed that over a 2-year
   period, CPI hired 3,000 workers, 40% of whom were illegal immigrants.
   CPI provided the illegal aliens with falsified identification and
   certifications of training to enable them to work for construction
   contractors, and CPI was paid nearly $4 million for the work of the
   aliens. This investigation was conducted with the Tennessee and
   Colorado Environmental Crimes Task Force, the INS, the Defense Criminal
   Investigative Service, EPA's Criminal Investigative Division and OIG,
   the IRS, and the FBI. U.S. v. Goodwin, et al. (E.D. Tennessee) 24
   Semiannual Report to the Congress April 1, 2001September 30, 2001
   Promoting the Economic Security of Workers and Families Worker Benefits
   Programs The Department of Labor is responsible for protecting workers'
   hours, wages, and other conditions when they are on the job, providing
   unemployment and compensation benefits when workers are unable to work,
   and expanding, enhancing, and protecting workers' pensions, healthcare,
   and other benefits. The Department carries out programs to ensure
   compliance with minimum-wage and overtime requirements; to enable
   working Americans to be economically secure when they retire; to
   provide more pensions for women and employees of small businesses; to
   provide better access to healthcare; and to facilitate community
   readjustment in those areas suffering from economic change by
   shortening periods of unemployment and increasing full-time jobs and
   wage replacement. Under this goal, the OIG assists the Department in
   effectively administering and safeguarding Federal employee benefits
   programs (e.g., unemployment insurance and disability compensation
   benefits programs) and in overseeing the nation's pension system.
   Moreover, through our investigative efforts, we protect the integrity
   of programs by identifying and causing the termination of fraudulent
   claims and billings by ineligible recipients and medical providers.
   Worker Benefits Programs Unemployment Insurance Program Enacted over 60
   years ago as a Federal-state partnership, the Unemployment Insurance
   (UI) program is the Department's largest income maintenance program.
   This multibillion-dollar program assists individuals who have lost
   their jobs through no fault of their own. While the framework of the
   program is determined by Federal law, the benefits for individuals are
   dependent on state law and are administered by State Workforce Agencies
   (SWAs) in 53 jurisdictions covering the 50 states, the District of
   Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands under the oversight
   of ETA. During this reporting period, we completed a number of audits
   and investigations that called attention to systemic weaknesses and
   unallowable costs claimed in the UI system. The OIG continues to expand
   its investigative efforts to detect and investigate fictitious or
   fraudulent employer schemes used to defraud the UI program. In recent
   years, the program has suffered losses in the millions of dollars as a
   result of these types of schemes. As a result, the integrity of the UI
   program was cited by Congress as one of the ten worst management issues
   in government. Highlighed below are some of our accomplishments in this
   area. OIG Recommends Recovery of $9.8 Million from Maryland Department
   of Labor, Licensing, and Regulation In the prior semiannual period, the
   OIG recommended that DOL recover over $1.3 million from the Maryland
   Department of Labor, Licensing, and Regulation (DLLR) related to DLLR
   central service costs it charged to DOL grants. The current audit of
   DLLR is related to indirect costs it charged to DOL grants. The OIG
   conducted an audit of the Maryland DLLR to determine whether the
   indirect costs charged to DOL grants administered by DLLR for the
   period July 1995 through June 2000 were allocable and allowable. Our
   audit found that although OMB Circular No. A-87 expressly requires that
   indirect costs be allocated to cost objectives on the basis of relative
   benefits received, DLLR failed to comply with this requirement. We
   determined that for the 5-year period ended June 30, 2000, DLLR billed
   and received a total of $50,523,999 in indirect costs from DOL while,
   for this period, its actual allowable indirect costs properly allocable
   to DOL grant awards on the basis of relative benefits received totaled
   only $40,690,940. In short, DLLR overcharged DOL grant awards a total
   of $9,833,059 in indirect costs during this 5-year period ended June
   30, 2000. Semiannual Report to the Congress 27 April 1, 2001September
   30, 2001 Worker Benefits Programs Unemployment Insurance Program We
   recommended that DOL recover the $9.8 million in questioned indirect
   costs and direct DLLR to develop and implement internal control
   policies and procedures to ensure that its indirect cost rate proposals
   fully comply with the Federal cost principles mandated by OMB Circular
   No. A-87. The Maryland DLLR disagreed with the OIG findings and
   recommendations. (OA Report No. 03-01-006-03-315, issued September 21,
   2001) OIG Questions Expenditure of $2.3 Million of Grant Funds During
   FYs 1998 and 1999, ETA awarded grants totaling $255 million to SWAs
   specifically to make their automated Employment Service and
   Unemployment Insurance (UI) systems Y2K compliant. As part of a series
   of audits conducted in this area, the OIG reviewed SWA grant
   expenditures in four states to ensure that Y2K grant funds were spent
   for intended purposes, in conformity with the grant agreements and
   applicable Federal requirements. Our audit disclosed that the four SWAs
   did not always comply with requirements governing use of the grant
   funds and, as a result, we questioned $2,313,251 during this reporting
   period. The following chart shows the amounts questioned during this
   reporting period: Funds Awarded Amounts Questioned California
   $11,266,110 $ 848,963 Montana 6,309,069 132,743 Ohio 13,329,257
   1,085,283 Pennsylvania 11,786,862 246,262 Total $42,691,298 $2,313,251
   Significant questioned costs and related issues include: * $1,006,520
   of base-funded salaries and related allocations that were improperly
   charged to the grants; * $758,442 in system enhancements that were not
   related to the grants; * $366,761 in maintenance agreements and routine
   supplies that were not related to the grants; and * $73,736 in costs
   incurred prior to the start of the grants. In addition to recommending
   that ETA recover the questioned costs, we also recommended that the
   Pennsylvania SWA return $459,198 in grant funds remaining after the
   termination of its grant. The four SWAs disagreed with our audit
   findings, stating that their interpretation of ETA's guidance permitted
   a greater degree of funding flexibility in the use of the grant monies.
   (OA Report Nos. 04-01-005-03-315, issued August 22, 2001;
   04-01-010-03-315, issued September 17, 2001; 04-01-006-03- 315, issued
   September 21, 2001; and 04-01-008-03-315, issued September 21, 2001) 28
   Semiannual Report to the Congress April 1, 2001September 30, 2001
   Worker Benefits Unemployment Insurance Program Programs Woman Pleads
   Guilty in Multi-State Fraud Scheme Theresa Freeman pled guilty on July
   17, 2001, to mail fraud charges in connection with a multi-state
   fictitious employer scheme that she had operated since 1994. She
   conducted her scheme in South Carolina, Florida, Hawaii, Connecticut,
   and New York. The OIG investigation found that she had devised the
   scheme to obtain UI monies by establishing employer accounts for two
   false and fictitious businesses with the South Carolina Employment
   Security Commission (SCESC). She then applied for UI benefits in the
   names of fictitious employees and opened bank accounts using a
   fictitious name to deposit proceeds from SCESC unemployment
   compensation checks paid out to the fictitious employees. Freeman
   fraudulently obtained approximately $68,600 in UI benefits. U.S. v.
   Freeman (D. South Carolina) Arkansas Man Pleads Guilty in Fictitious
   Employer Scheme On June 22, 2001, Randy Vanhorn, of Jonesboro,
   Arkansas, was sentenced to nearly six years in prison and three years'
   probation and was ordered to pay $44,000 in restitution after having
   been found guilty on charges of mail fraud and money laundering in
   November 2000. He was also sentenced to an additional 10 months in
   prison, to run consecutively, for violating probation and was ordered
   to pay more than $9,000 in restitution relating to a previous
   conviction. The OIG investigation disclosed that from May 1999 to
   February 2000, Vanhorn conducted a fictitious employer scheme in and
   around the Jonesboro, Arkansas area by using aliases to create two
   fictitious companies to file fraudulent reports and create records for
   14 fictitious employees. This was a joint investigation with the U.S.
   Postal Inspection Service and the Social Security Administration (SSA)
   OIG. U.S. v. Vanhorn (E.D. Arkansas) Chicago Woman and Son Indicted for
   $350,000 in UI Fraud On May 31, 2001, a Chicago-area woman and her son
   were indicted on multiple counts of mail fraud for allegedly devising a
   scheme to defraud the Illinois Department of Employment Security (IDES)
   from January 1993 until September 1999. Using various names, they
   created five fictitious companies and posed as claimants to obtain UI
   benefits from IDES. As a result of this scheme, IDES issued hundreds of
   unemployment checks totaling nearly $350,000 to more than 35 fictitious
   claimants. This investigation is a joint effort with IDES and the U.S.
   Postal Inspection Service. Semiannual Report to the Congress 29 April
   1, 2001September 30, 2001 Worker Benefits Programs Office of Workers'
   Compensation Programs The OIG continues to investigate claimants and
   medical service providers who defraud the healthcare programs
   administered by DOL's Office of Workers' Compensation Programs (OWCP).
   OWCP administers four major disability compensation programs: the
   Energy Employees' Occupational Illness Compensation program, the
   Federal Employees' Compensation program, the Black Lung Benefits
   program, and the Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation program.
   These programs provide wage replacement benefits, medical treatment,
   vocational rehabilitation, and other benefits to certain workers who
   experience work-related injury or occupational disease or to their
   dependents. ESA Changes Black Lung Benefits Program's Oxycontin Payment
   Policy On June 15, 2001, the Black Lung Benefits program changed its
   payment policy for Oxycontin, a prescription drug that has been linked
   to a number of deaths in southwest Virginia. The change resulted from
   the Black Lung Benefits program's review of Oxycontin prescription
   usage and collaborative efforts and discussion with the OIG. Following
   the Black Lung Benefits program's review of Oxycontin prescription
   charges, the program asked the OIG to investigate allegations of
   excessive charges for Oxycontin prescriptions on a Black Lung Benefits
   program recipient's account. The ensuing investigation determined that
   the Black Lung Benefits recipient's son had been submitting claims for
   prescriptions for the drug on behalf of his father's Black Lung
   Benefits account. However, the investigation revealed that the son was
   then selling the drugs. The Black Lung Benefits program change now
   requires documentation from physicians to verify that the pain
   medication is for treatment of pneumoconiosis (also known as black lung
   disease). Medical Provider Fraud Fraud by service providers is
   generally perpetrated by submitting claims for services or goods not
   provided or delivered, billing for treatment not related to the
   approved medical condition or disability, double-billing, upcoding
   (billing under a more expensive treatment service code than that for
   the treatment actually provided), or unbundling (breaking one service
   into several services with separate charge codes) to fraudulently
   obtain personal financial gain. 30 Semiannual Report to the Congress
   April 1, 2001September 30, 2001 Worker Benefits Programs Office of
   Workers' Compensation Programs Virginia Doctor Found Guilty of
   Illegally Dispensing Narcotics On May 25, 2001, Dr. Franklin Sutherland
   of Grundy, Virginia, was found guilty on 427 counts of dispensing
   schedule II and III narcotics (including Oxycontin) without a
   legitimate medical purpose. As Dr. Sutherland was a large-volume
   provider of medical services through the Federal Black Lung Benefits
   program, many of the illegally prescribed drugs went to Black Lung
   claimants. This investigation is part of a continuing OIG probe into
   Black Lung medical provider fraud in rural Virginia with the Virginia
   State Police, the FBI, the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), the
   IRS CID, the Department of Health and Human Services OIG, the Virginia
   Department of Health Professions, and the Virginia and West Virginia
   Medicaid Fraud Control Units. U.S. v. Sutherland (W.D. Virginia) Former
   West Virginia Hospital Administrator Sentenced to Eight Years in Prison
   On April 23, 2001, C. David Morrison, former Logan General Hospital
   administrator, was sentenced to eight years in prison and five years'
   probation. He was also ordered to make restitution in the amount of
   $375,000 and to pay over $15,000 in fines. Also sentenced for his part
   in the embezzlement scheme was Morrison's partner, Donald Cabell, who
   received six months' home confinement and three years' probation. He
   was also ordered to pay nearly $350,000 in restitution and to liquidate
   all corporate and personal assets to pay the restitution. The
   investigation revealed that Morrison and Cabell had embezzled over
   $636,000 from the hospital and diverted over $4.5 million from
   employees' payroll taxes to finance business ventures through their
   for- profit company, American Development Corporation. As a result of
   the fraud, this rural Appalachian hospital, which provided services to
   Medicare, Medicaid, and Black Lung Benefits recipients, was forced into
   bankruptcy. This investigation was a joint effort with the IRS CID, the
   West Virginia Medicaid Fraud Control Unit, and the West Virginia State
   Police. U.S. v. Morrison, U.S. v. Cabell (S.D. West Virginia) Virginia
   Doctors Indicted in Racketeering Drug Conspiracy On July 25, 2001, a
   husband and wife (both physicians) who owned and operated a clinic in
   Oakwood, Virginia, were indicted on over 140 violations, including
   racketeering, conspiracy, money laundering, Semiannual Report to the
   Congress 31 April 1, 2001September 30, 2001 Worker Benefits Programs
   Office of Workers' Compensation Programs receiving kickbacks,
   unlawfully dispensing prescription drugs, and mail fraud. The
   investigation alleges that from 1987 through 2000, the two physicians
   allegedly: * defrauded the Black Lung Benefits program by billing more
   than $1.1 million for unnecessary medical services; * defrauded
   Medicare of more than $100,000 by using false diagnoses on claims; *
   wrote checks and made withdrawals of more than $3.5 million from the
   proceeds of the fraud scheme; * received kickbacks from the co-located
   pharmacy for directing patients to the pharmacy to fill their
   prescriptions; and * dispensed schedule II and III narcotics (including
   Oxycontin) without legitimate medical purposes. In 1989, the Black Lung
   Benefits program declined to pay medical billings submitted by the
   husband following the Black Lung Benefits program's review of his
   billings and his criminal conviction for selling certificates of
   medical necessity. His wife, however, obtained her own provider status
   and continued to treat her husband's patients. The investigation was
   conducted by a task force comprised of the IRS CID, the DOL OIG, the
   Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) OIG, the Virginia State
   Police, the Virginia Department of Health Professions, the Virginia
   Attorney General's Medicaid Fraud Control Unit, the FBI, and the DEA's
   Drug Diversion Unit. Physician Sentenced in Tennessee to Two Years in
   Prison and Ordered to Pay over $220,000 On August 24, 2001, Dr. John
   Campa was sentenced to two years' imprisonment followed by three years'
   probation and was ordered to pay over $220,000 in restitution and fees.
   The sentencing followed Campa's guilty plea to 77 counts of mail fraud,
   healthcare fraud, making false statements by billing for supplies not
   used, and upcoding. Total fraud in the case is conservatively estimated
   in excess of $850,000 over a three- year period, with losses to OWCP,
   other Federal compensation programs, and private insurance companies.
   The OIG participated in this investigation with the Tennessee Valley
   Authority OIG, the Defense Criminal Investigative Service, the Special
   Investigations Unit-Blue Cross/Blue Shield, and the HHS OIG. U.S. v.
   Campa (E.D. Tennessee) Claimant Fraud Claimant fraud involves the
   concealment or false reporting of employment and income by an
   individual who continues to receive program benefits or services. In
   the FECA program alone, over $2 billion in medical and 32 Semiannual
   Report to the Congress April 1, 2001September 30, 2001 Worker Benefits
   Programs Office of Workers' Compensation Programs death benefits and
   wage loss compensation were paid from July 1, 1999, to June 30, 2000,
   with more than 53% of these benefits paid to injured employees of the
   U.S. Postal Service, the Department of the Navy, and the Department of
   the Army. The OIG continues to work joint cases with other Federal
   investigative agencies and instruct them on how to conduct FECA
   investigations more efficiently and effectively. This has been
   especially true, most recently, with Department of Defense criminal
   investigative units from the U.S. Army and Navy. It is important to
   note that the removal of a single fraudulent claimant from Federal
   benefit rolls creates, on average, a $300,000 to $500,000 savings for
   the government. North Carolina Carpenter Ordered to Pay over $338,000
   for Defrauding FECA Program Dorman S. Poythress, a former civilian
   carpenter for the Marine Corps Air Station at Cherry Point, North
   Carolina, was sentenced to a year in prison and three years' probation
   and was ordered to pay over $338,000 in restitution. A FECA recipient
   since December 1972, Poythress falsely reported annually that he was
   unable to work and that he was not working when, in fact, he had been
   working as a contractor in a home repair business since 1974. The
   investigation was conducted jointly with the Marine Corps, the IRS
   Criminal Investigative Division, and the Naval Criminal Investigative
   Service at the Marine Corps Air Station at Cherry Point, North
   Carolina. U.S. v. Poythress (E.D. North Carolina) Arkansas Couple
   Sentenced to Pay over $200,000 John Rankin, a former FECA recipient,
   and his wife, Laura Rankin, a former recipient of Social Security
   disability benefits, were sentenced on August 20, 2001, for defrauding
   the FECA and Social Security programs. The Rankins each received a
   sentence that included six months' home detention and 18 months'
   probation. Moreover, they were ordered to pay restitution in the
   amounts of over $95,000 and $113,000, respectively. John Rankin claimed
   he had injured his back in 1990. He worked until July 1994, when he
   left his job with the Army Corps of Engineers and began receiving
   workers' compensation benefits. During this time, Laura Rankin filed
   for and began receiving Social Security disability benefits and
   submitted documentation indicating that she was also unemployed. This
   joint DOL OIG, SSA OIG, and Corps of Engineers investigation revealed
   that from approximately 1996 to 1999, John and Laura Rankin owned and
   operated a home-building business in Ozark, Arkansas. U.S. v. Rankin
   (W.D. Arkansas) Semiannual Report to the Congress 33 April 1,
   2001September 30, 2001 Worker Benefits Programs Office of Workers'
   Compensation Programs Former Defense Department Truck Driver to Pay
   over $102,000 FECA recipient Michael Streath was sentenced on April 3
