http://www.rtc.wa.gov/studies.htm

   [rtcbanner.gif]

                                Planning Studies

  I-5 HOV Operational Study

     The I-5 HOV Corridor Operational Study investigated the feasibility
     and operations of a bi-state HOV facility in the I-5 corridor. The
     Study was conducted in two phases. The first phase analyzed and
     identified a range of feasible HOV lane configurations for detailed
     operational analysis. While Phase I examined several configurations,
     the key to this portion of the study was an assessment on the
     feasibility of a reversible lane across the Interstate Bridge that
     will allow new HOV capacity without reducing general purpose
     capacity. The second phase of the study was the development of an
     HOV implementation plan. Phase II included a micro traffic
     operational analysis, the development and design of an HOV lane
     configuration in the I-5 corridor, an estimate of capital and
     operating costs, and a public information program, including a Clark
     County transportation survey.

     The Final Report (PDF), published in April 2000, is 100 pages and
     the download is 1.7Mb. The I-5 High-Occupancy Vehicle Operational
     Study Executive Summary with Technical Advisory Committee Findings
     (HTML) is also available online. The study concluded with a
     recommendation to implement a southbound high occupancy vehicle lane
     in the corridor during the morning commute period in conjunction
     with the I-5 widening construction project. The Vancouver HOV Lane
     Project is scheduled to open in Fall 2001.

  I-205 Corridor Study

     There has been much discussion over the past few years about the
     transportation problems in the I-205 corridor from the Glenn Jackson
     Bridge north to 83rd Avenue. Congestion on both I-205 and local
     streets, long traffic lines at interchanges, accidents, and access
     for local business are some of the problems that have been
     increasing in recent years. RTC and WSDOT are working together with
     the City of Vancouver, Clark County, and C-TRAN, on the I-205
     Corridor Study.

  SR-35 Columbia River Bridge Feasibility Study

     The SR-35 Columbia River Bridge Feasibility Study is the result of a
     local grass roots effort by a wide range of individuals who are
     interested in the near and distant future of the White
     Salmon/Bingen, Washington and Hood River, Oregon region. The desired
     outcomes of the feasibility study are:
     * an increased understanding of the current and future river crossing
       conditions and needs,
     * agreement on short term status and recommendations, and
     * local consensus and momentum to work toward long term crossing
       solutions.

  Affiliated Studies

     Listed below are studies related to local transportation issues,
     being conducted by agencies other than RTC.

       * I-5/I-205 North Corridor Study, WSDOT
       * I-5 HOV Test Study, ODOT

                                              [logo-i5north.gif] [diamonds2.gif]

  More...

     RTC has completed numerous studies over the years. Some that have
     been presented here on our web site are now archived and will remain
     for your viewing. Visit the Archived Studies page to see summaries,
     and the Final Reports page for downloadable documents.

   Send mail to webmaster@rtc.wa.gov with questions or comments about this
                                  web site.
     Copyright ©1992-2002, Regional Transportation Council, All Rights
                                  Reserved.
                 This page was last updated August 01, 2001.
