http://etl-web.jpl.nasa.gov/Off-lab/etl_off_lab_chklst.htm

   [jplred.gif]    ETL OFF-LAB CHECKLIST FOR DYNAMICS TESTING


   This checklist is intended as an aid to the Project Engineer to help
   prepare for off-lab testing while our facility is being upgraded.  It
   is quite important that the Project Engineer advises the ETL scheduler
   as to the firm dates of testing at least 1 week in advance in order for
   the ETL to arrange for the outside test.  During the upgrade your
   contact is: Patrick Collins @ ext. 4-2011.  We will make all possible
   efforts to accommodate our customers during the upgrade process, but we
   must have advance notice of any change at least 1 week before the
   scheduled start date of your test.

   Please note that Aerojet has now become Northrop Grumman


    1. A detailed test plan with instrumentation requirements 10 days in
       advance of your test must be submitted to the ETL.  An electronic
       version is highly preferred.
    2. Everyone that will be going to Northrop Grumman MUST fill out a
       "Security Request Form" and fax it to: Pam Solis at  Northrop
       Grumman, (626) 812-1835 A.S.A.P.  This includes flight techs, Q.A.,
       requirements engineer, and anyone who must access the outside
       facility.  Please include the project and test article name on a
       cover page to help Northrop Grumman track who should be at their
       facility.  An electronic version of this form (in MS Word) is
       available by clicking on the "Security Request Form" link above.
       Instructions for filling out the form are here.  Required 1 week in
       advance.
    3. Vibration fixtures need to be reviewed at least 1 week in advance.
       Most fixtures that have been designed for our facility will fit at
       the outside facility.  A "fit check" of your test article to the
       vibration fixture is required at least 1 week in advance.
    4. Mounting hardware for the test article.  Pretend you're on a
       camping trip in the middle of the desert and no hardware, other
       than what you brought, is available.
    5. Tools required for mounting of the test article, connector tools,
       any tools you may need. Northrop Grumman & NTS will provide for
       mounting of vibration plates only to their system.   Make sure that
       tools that require calibration are in date.
    6. Safety Survey information can be found here.  Courtesy of Dennis
       Ross.
    7. As always, the project must also bring any other required items
       such as gloves, wrist straps, wrist strap tester, smocks, hats,
       anti-static plastic (smoke colored) to cover the slip table, etc.

   The Project Engineer is responsible for all transportation arrangements
   for the hardware, any G.S.E., tools, etc.

   As always, Flight Hardware tests must comply with DMIE document #
   55833, "Spacecraft System Dynamic and Static Testing, Rev. 0", which
   can be found at: http://dmie.jpl.nasa.gov/cgi/doc-gw.pl?DocID=55833
   All fixtures must comply with DMIE document # 35515, "Evaluation &
   Acceptance of Dynamics Test Fixtures Used in Vibration & Shock Environ
   Tests, Rev. D", which can be found at:
   http://dmie.jpl.nasa.gov/cgi/doc-gw.pl?DocID=35515
   Other pertinent documents (including these) can be found on the ETL web
   site: http://etl-web Scroll down to "Internal Links" and click on the
   "DMIE Documents" button.

   Vibration fixture hole patterns are here

   Directions and map to Northrop Grumman

   This page was updated on:
   Wednesday, November 07, 2001 04:02 PM
