http://astrobiology.arc.nasa.gov/news/expandnews.cfm?id=1223

   [spacer.gif]
   [spacer.gif]

   NASA Ames Research Center
   [nav_left.gif]
   Latest News
   Roadmap
   Science Goals
   Technologies
   Missions
   Workshops
   Education
   Public Engagement
   Astrobiology Institute
   Our Web Awards
   Media Center
   Related Links
   Public Policy
   Questions
   References
   Search
   Biology at NASA
   Contacts
   top navigation image
   [spacer.gif]
   [spacer.gif]
   [spacer.gif]
   [spacer.gif]
   [spacer.gif]


   Astrobiology: Latest News
   bbb

         Jan 28 2002 | SCIENCE
         The Great Dying

         The Permian-Triassic (P-T) extinction 250 million years ago was the
         most severe of several mass extinctions in Earth history. Over 90
         percent of species in the oceans were wiped out, along with 70 percent
         of species on land, making the P-T far worse than the famous
         Cretacious-Tertiary extinction, which ended the reign of the dinosaurs.

         Scientists have proposed several possible causes of the P-T extinction.
         To identify the culprit, NASA researchers led expeditions to rocky
         areas in Hungary, Japan and China where the geologic boundary between
         the Permian and Triassic periods is exposed. The team examined
         fullerenessoccer-ball-shaped carbon molecules also known as
         "buckyballs"taken from the boundary region of the rock. Trapped inside
         the cage-like fullerenes were helium-3 and argon-36 atoms, isotopes
         much more common in space than on Earth. The findings are evidence that
         an asteroid or comet struck the Earth at the time of the P-T
         extinction.

         But other factors may have contributed to the catastrophe. A massive
         volcanic fissure in what is now Siberia discharged a million and a half
         times more lava than Mt. St. Helens did in 1980. What's more, the
         continents had drifted together to form the supercontinent Pangea,
         thereby altering global climate patterns. Life on Earth was already
         under assualt; the impact from space may have simply been the straw
         that broke the camel's back. Understanding how events originating in
         space affect life on Earth is a significant focus of astrobiology.

More on this story

   Full text of original item from NASA, Jan 28, 2002

   Feb 26, 2001 (NASA Astrobiology Institute)
   Asteroid or Comet Triggered Largest Mass Extinction

   Feb 23, 2001 (NPR)
   Audio: NASA astrobiologists Michael Meyer and Luann Becker discuss the
   findings
   Requires RealPlayer plug-in.

Related news stories

   Sep 06, 2001 | SCIENCE
   Asteroid or Comet Caused Earth's Largest Mass Extinction
   (Space.com) - Scientists working in China have have unearthed
   additional evidence that the Permian-Triassic extinction was triggered
   by an asteroid or comet impact.

   The preceding news links are provided as a public service for
   interested users. The views and claims expressed in external internet
   sites are not necessarily those of NASA.
   [spacer.gif]

                            Questions? Comments?

                         Responsible NASA Official:
                              Kathleen Connell

                          Designed and Curated by:
                           Symtech Corp. and NASA

   [spacer.gif]
