http://www.familysupportcenter.maricopa.gov/ties.html

    Family Support Center
    Clerk of the Superior Court in Maricopa County
    Family Ties and Knots


      Articles  Ties & Knots Tying Up a Plan   Dads     Moms     Videos
                           Acknowledgements  Home

                         [Shoes.gif] Ties and Knots

   Just like a child’s shoelaces, families have ties and knots.

   It happens. Sometimes families are neatly tied together and things run
   smoothly. Other times, the family finds itself in knots, which can be
   tough to work out.

   Parents who divorce have a choice. Tiesor knots. For things to work
   more comfortably and effectively for the children, Moms and Dads need
   to commit to a new set of ties co-parenting. After separation or
   divorce, parents need to learn how to tie things up neatly with a
   comprehensive parenting plan. Spelling out agreements can reduce
   misunderstanding and potential conflict.

   "Tying up a plan" means anticipating problems and working them out.
   This could include discussion of specific issues like sharing time and
   making decisions about the child’s education, developmental activities,
   health care, religious upbringing and other needs. Negotiating an
   agreement that is fair and viable for the family through a "mediation"
   process is an excellent way to avert the typical knots caused when
   there is no plan and ultimately ongoing dispute.

   A thoughtful parenting plan creates a more favorable climate for
   re-negotiation when circumstances change for either parent, or for the
   child.

   Working out the knots is difficult and time-consuming, but certainly
   more so when parents are in a hurry. When something unexpected arises
   at the last minute, chances for resolution are slim for parents who are
   at odds. Opportunities can be lost if the parents’ relationship is in
   knots, and life gets a lot more complicated.

   If working out the knots is a priority for the parents, problems occur
   less and less often. Or at least, the problems are new onesand not the
   same ones year after year. So, what will it be? Ties? Or knots?

   [shim.gif] [fsctop.gif]
