http://www.kids.gov/k_music.htm




                               [smlsearch.gif]
                                   Search
    "" Logo image linking to FirstGov for Kids. Logo image linking to the
                     Federal Consumer Information Center
   Arts - Careers - Computers - Environment - Fighting Crime - Fun Stuff -
         Geography - Global Village - Government - Health - History
    Homework - Money - Music - Plants and Animals - Recreation - Safety -
                  Science and Math - Space - Transportation
                               Separator image
   Image of woman playing a saxophone Music Do you ever wonder where your
     favorite band would be without music? They would be on stage, with
   microphones, in front of hundreds of people, without a clue. Learn how
     "note"-able music is in our society by clicking on the links below.
                               Separator image

                              Government Sites
               (these sites are not maintained by kids.gov *)
     Item America's Stories - See, Hear and Sing - Watch a movie, hear a
                   song, play a tune from America's past.
      Item American Music Collections - The American Music Collections
        document this country's diverse popular music and performance
   traditions. The strength of these collections is the music of the late
     nineteenth through the twentieth centuries including Big Band jazz,
         Gospel and African American sacred music, and folk music.
     Item Kids' Castle - This Smithsonian site has information to kids'
     questions on sports, history, the arts, travel, science and air and
                       space, all with great photos.
       Item Sing-Along with National Institute of Environmental Health
       Sciences - NIEHS has included this sing-along section to teach
                 environmental health science through song.
     Item Sound Site - Close your eyes, open your ears, and explore the
       world of sound! This neat site has audio clips, activities, and
              discussions about composition to help you learn.
   Item The Music of Sound - Neanderthal Jam - You could learn a lot from
     old musical instruments. We're not talking about a pawnshop full of
   rusted saxophones and busted guitars, but about partly fossilized bones
          with holes that look suspiciously like wind instruments.
    Item The Music Room - The Museum also explores history through dozens
                    of musical performances every year.

                             Organization Sites
               (these sites are not maintained by kids.gov *)
      Item Children's Music Web - This site has plenty of fun stuff - a
     concert calendar, radio list, and the "Children's Music Gazette".
   Item I Hear America Singing - Have you ever thought about how American
    songs developed? This PBS site has a timeline covering the history of
   American concert song as well as information on the writers, composers,
                artists, and movements that left their mark.
    Item Internet Cello Society - Ever wonder what that doohickey on your
       cello is really called? Find out with this picture guide to the
                                instrument.
    Item Jazz Kids - Check out this fun newspaper for kids featuring news
            and reviews, kids' writing, games, trivia, and more!
    Item Musically Inclined - Put on your headphones and get tuned in to
    the details of music on this site. Visit the virtual library to study
   the history of music, music theory, musicians, and more. Go interactive
   and name that tune, take an instrument test, and find your seat in the
                               concert hall!
   Item New York Philharmonic Kidzone - Meet composers and members of the
       orchestra, check out the Insider's Guide, explore all kinds of
   instruments, invent one of your own, and so much more on this dazzling
                                   site!
      Item Playmusic - A cool site for kids from the American Symphony
    Orchestra League. Learn all about classical music and the instruments
                               that make it.

                               Education Sites
               (these sites are not maintained by kids.gov *)
    Item Instrument Encyclopedia! - The purpose of this site is to allow
    you to explore the diversity and creativity of musical traditions as
        you browse our gallery or search for a favorite instrument.
    Item Musical Instrument Encyclopedia - What does a didgeridoo do? See
     popular musical instruments, play their music, or have fun learning
                            about their origins.

                              Commercial Sites
               (these sites are not maintained by kids.gov *)
   Item Kididdles - MoJo is a singin', swingin' music mouse-chine! She'll
       be happy to take you on a guided tour of her Musical Mouseum.
   Item Study Web - Links for Learning - Music - Huge site with many links
   to sources of information on composers, instruments, and musical forms.
   Item Young Composers - This site allows young composers to share their
                music and to talk to other young musicians.
                               Separator image
    About this site - Sitemap - Contact Us - Kid's Privacy - Disclaimer -
                                 Link Policy
                               Separator image
