http://www-fbsc.ncifcrf.gov/director.html

       Welcome video from Director Stanley K. Burt Director's Welcome

                               ABCC Home Page

   Hello, I'm Stan Burt, director of the ABCC and on behalf of the entire
   staff, I'd like to welcome you to the National Cancer Institute's
   Advanced Biomedical Computing Center.
   The National Institutes of Health and the National Cancer Institute
   have identified high performance computing as an important area for
   biological research. Thus, the ABCC was established in 1986 by the
   National Cancer Institute to provide a high performance computing and
   user-friendly environment for biomedical research. Unlike some other
   high performance centers, the ABCC only supports research directed
   toward biological problems, thus making it somewhat unique.
   We are proud to be supporting research in such grand challenge areas
   such as deciphering the human genome, understanding structure-function
   relations of biological molecules, and development of therapeutics for
   numerous diseases, especially AIDS and cancer.
   We provide a heterogeneous computer environment in order to let
   researchers match their specific problem needs to the appropriate
   platform. We also maintain a current suite of programs ranging from
   bioinformatics to molecular dynamics to quantum chemistry. Our staff
   consists of experts in computers, networking, bioinformatics and
   computational chemistry. Such an integrated staff is here to help you
   with getting your computational problem up and running and for any
   technical assistance you may need.
   Our mission is to be a national resource for computational problems for
   both intramural and extramural users. Time on our computers is awarded
   by a Time Allocation Committee, headed by Dr. Jacob V. Maizel,
   Laboratory Chief of the Laboratory of Experimental and Computational
   Biology.
   We have included on our web site some of the projects and achievements
   that have been carried out at the ABCC, We know that you will enjoy
   reading about some of these research projects. You will certainly get a
   better idea of our center and how scientists are using high performance
   computers to better understand basic biological and disease-related
   phenomena.
   I hope that what you see on this site will encourage you to visit us or
   apply for use of our resources. Please feel free to contact us if you
   have questions of need assistance.
