http://www.skillsnetwork.gov/topics.cfm?ID=63


   Welcome

   Meet
   the Skills
   Network

   Find Your State

   Home

   [logo2.jpg]

   Measuring Progress

   work together



   What you measure is what you get. Here are models, resources and
   guidelines for identifying outcomes, benchmarks and systems of
   measurement.


   Accountability in an Age of Devolution, By Con Hogan

   Organizing at the community level around broad outcomes and specific
   indicators of social well-being will result in improved conditions.
   Traditional approaches by federal and state governments are not
   effective at the community level. Communities are uniquely able to
   mobilize people and organizations to improve outcomes.

   American Productivity & Quality Center

   The American Productivity & Quality Center (APQC) is a world-renowned
   resource for process and performance improvement for organizations of
   all sizes across all industries. APQC boasts a distinguished list of
   achievements that includes providing private-sector input for the first
   White House Conference on Productivity, spearheading the creation and
   design of the Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award in 1987, and
   jointly administering the award for its first three years.

   Community/Federal Information Partnership

   A presentation by Dr. Mark Schaefer, U.S. Department of Interior, on a
   Community/Federal Information Partnership that aims to advance the
   National Spatial Data Infrastructure. The slides contain information on
   GIS and Community Demonstration Projects, including Baltimore, MD, and
   San Diego, CA.

   Contra Costa County, CA Children's Report Card

   The Report Card functions as a powerful communication tool to inform
   citizens, service providers and government about the status of Contra
   Costa children, families and communities: a "history" lesson through
   its growing body of baseline information; a "snapshot" of present
   circumstances; and a "prediction" of future progress toward "turning
   the curve" on indicators which align with broad community outcomes for
   children and families.

   ERSI Library of GIS links

   Starting here, you can visit interesting GIS application sites, gather
   helpful information from other ESRI users and connect with GIS people
   in your area.

   Institute on Education and the Economy

   The Institute on Education and the Economy (IEE) is an
   interdisciplinary policy research center that focuses its attention on
   the interaction between education and the economy. The Institute
   analyzes the relationship between changes in the economy and the need
   to for a fundamental rethinking of our educational system. A new way of
   looking at accountability in our educational system. IEE conducts a
   rigorous program of research and policy analysis and provides
   intellectual leadership on the implications of changes in the economy
   and labor markets for all levels of our education and training systems.

   Iowa Data & Indicators

   A model for local/state partnerships using specific social and economic
   indicators, including poverty guidelines and employment levels.

   Midwest Research Institute Outcome Indicators Management

   Midwest Research Institute (MRI) has developed a proprietary software
   system, CIRES, that establishes a new standard of ease for working with
   outcome indicators data sets. CIRES (Computerized Indicator Retrieval
   and Evaluation System) is a Windows-based program that makes it
   possible for analysts to quickly retrieve data and produce tables,
   graphs, and maps with the click of a button.

   Missouri Show Me Results Strategic Plan

   "Show Me Results," Missouris results-driven strategic plan to improve
   outcomes in social services for children.

   National Association of Counties (NACo) - Information Technology

   NACo's Information Technology projects assist counties in the
   development of services and projects related to information technology,
   information systems and technical standards as well as providing
   resources to additional information and technology vendors. Curent NACo
   Information Technology projects include GIS.

   National Neighborhood Indicator Partnership

   The National Neighborhood Indicators Partnership (NNIP) is a
   collaborative effort by the Urban Institute and local partners to
   further the development and use of neighborhood-level information
   systems in local policymaking and community building.

   National States Geographic Information Council (NSGIC)

   NSGIC is an organization of States committed to efficient and effective
   government through the prudent adoption of information technology. The
   NSGIC membership includes nationally and internationally recognized
   experts in geographic information systems (GIS), and data and
   information technology policy. This site includes State contacts,
   conference information, and useful state and federal links.

   Outcome Measurement Resource Network

   The Resource Network's purpose is to provide United Way of America's
   and other organizations' outcome measurement resources and learnings.

   School Improvement in Maryland

   This Web site has been created to help schools analyze their state
   assessment data and guide them in making data-based instructional
   decisions that would support improved performance for all students.

   Simply Better!

   A public-private learning network on continuous improvement for
   workforce organizations. Look here for tools, programs, guidebooks.

   Stateline.org / Education

   Discusses education in all 50 states. Such topics include, high
   accountability standards, per pupil spending, top state priorities and
   also gives the user the ability to compare states against one anther
   using education data.

   The Georgia Academy

   This organization is an example of promising practices that enhance the
   competency, skills and knowledge of service providing professionals
   that produce measurable results.

   Tools for Community Design and Decision-Making

   The U.S. Department of Energy has compiled a list of computer-based and
   non-technical visioning, design, and planning tools that can aid
   community groups in planning healthy sustainable communities. The Tools
   Matrix is comprised of technical and non-technical tools such as
   Geographic Information System (GIS) programs, predictive models, impact
   analysis programs, community visioning programs, interactive Internet
   community networks, information resources, and group consensus building
   tools.

   U. S. Department of Labor's WIA Training Modules

   Official training modules including WIA overview, governance,
   comprehensive services, customer satisfaction and measurement.

   Vermont Communities Count: Using Results to Strengthen Services for
   Families and Children (1999)

   Written by Con Hogan, former Secretary of the Vermont Agency of Human
   Services, this report supplies background on Vermont's partnership
   initative, explains how these community partnerships work, and outlines
   the state's progress on using results-based accountability. (NOTE:
   Adobe Acrobat Reader is required to view this report.)

   WIA Performance Measures

   U. S. Department of Labor's technical guidance on core and customer
   satsifaction measures

   Women and the IT Revolution

   This website outlines a two year study on the role of Women in the IT
   profession and education system and recommends strategies at curbing
   the IT gender disparity.

   Workforce Excellence Network

   Public-private partnership, sponsored by the U. S. Department of Labor,
   to promote continuous quality improvement in the workforce investment
   system.

   Text Only | Admin | Talk With Us | Privacy Statement | Home
