http://www1.usatrade.gov/website/website.nsf/WebBySubj/Main_PressRelease012302

   Export.gov Logo

                   U. S. Commercial Service
                  About Press Release 012302

                             Find Int'l Partners

                               Market Research

                                Trade Events

                           Consulting and Advocacy

                               Trade Resources


      U.S. Commercial Service Logo

    Quick Reference
    About Us
    Employment
    Press Room
    Special Initiatives
    Contact Us
    BuyUSA Sites

   Find an Office Near You: _____ [BUTTON Input] (not implemented)__
   Enter Zip Code
   Logo for the E-Marketplace: BuyUSA

                                PRESS RELEASE

   CONTACT:

   Candy Hansen, Director
   The Export Center
   Tel: 559.323.4689
   Fax: 559.323.4811
   E-Mail: info@exportcenter.net

   Eduardo Torres, Director
   Fresno U.S. Export Assistance Center
   Tel: 559.325.1619
   Fax: 559.325.1647
   E-Mail: eduardo.torres@mail.doc.gov


   Fresno Export Center Receives Presidential Award; Local Company Honored
                            for First-Time Export

                                [Image64.gif]

   December 12, 2001, Fresno, California--Exports mean growth for U.S.
   businesses and the nation's economy. That's the message from U.S.
   Department of Commerce Deputy Assistant Secretary Bruce W. Blakeman,
   who today presented the President’s "E" Award for Excellence in
   Exporting to The Export Center at The Training Institute of the State
   Center Community College District in recognition of its outstanding
   achievement in facilitating exports from area companies. Chancellor
   Judith Redwine and Candy Hansen accepted the award on behalf of the
   Center. With only ten 2001 recipients, this award is the nation’s
   highest honor for achievement in exporting.

   Since its establishment in 1989, The Export Center has facilitated well
   over $230 million in export sales. Including sales from trade shows the
   export actions total rises to $400 million. The Center provided export
   counseling and technical assistance to 1,700 companies, responded to
   over 20,000 exporting inquiries, and conducted 345 training seminars,
   conferences and workshops for 9,050 clients.

   Deputy Assistant Secretary Blakeman also honored San Jose company
   BioMed Diagnostics, Inc., which recently made its first export sale,
   with the U.S. Commercial Service's Export Achievement Certificate.
   Since 1989, the company has manufactured and marketed "gold standard"
   in vitro diagnostic products for the detection of infectious diseases
   and fungi in the human clinical, veterinary, and industrial markets.
   BioMed Diagnostics recently signed a distributor in Milan, Italy.

   Established by an Executive Order of the President in 1961, the "E"
   Award is managed by the Commerce Department's U.S. Commercial Service,
   an export promotion agency with a worldwide network of offices,
   including one in Fresno. The "E" Award for Export Services recognizes
   organizations like The Export Center that assist exporting efforts.

   Deputy Assistant Secretary Blakeman directs 350 U.S.-based trade
   specialists. In 2001, he said, the U.S. Commercial Service helped U.S
   businesses generate export sales worth more than $34 billion.
   "Ninety-five percent of the world’s consumers live outside the U.S.,"
   said Blakeman. "And because the world’s consumers appreciate the
   quality of American-made products, our companies enjoy a competitive
   advantage in many countries." Although there are around 23 million
   small and medium-sized businesses in the U.S., Commerce Department
   officials say that only about 1% export. "Our job is to explain the
   benefits of exporting, identify best markets, and find qualified
   buyers," Blakeman added.

   For more information about The Export Center, visit
   www.exportcenter.net. For more information about BioMed Diagnostics,
   visit www.biomed1.com. To learn more about the U.S. Commercial Service
   or the "E" Award program, visit www.buyusa.com.

                        Privacy Statement | Site Map
      BuyUSA | International Trade Administration | U.S. Department of
                                  Commerce
