http://carstad.gsfc.nasa.gov/Topics/cbrsc.htm

                  CHESAPEAKE BAY REMOTE SENSING CONSORTIUM

                             Under Construction

     This page is under construction and is being updated continuously.
                More useful information will be coming soon.

   The Chesapeake Bay Remote Sensing Consortium (CBRSC) is being proposed
   to provide airborne remote sensing services and remote sensing
   technology and applications development for projects related to the
   Chesapeake Bay.  The CBRSC would be a "mini" or precursor CARSTAD.  The
   CBRSC would provide airborne remote sensing services only when they are
   not commercially available.  When the services are commercially
   available, the CBRSC will help members of the consortium locate them
   and arrange for their use.  For specialized airborne remote sensing
   requirements, the CBRSC would either find an organization with the
   capability to develop a new remote sensing capability, or seek to
   develop that capability in-house.

   This page will eventually have a detailed description of a proposed
   consortium for airborne remote sensing of the Chesapeake Bay.  You can
   read the proposed Plan for the CBRSC.  These pages also contain general
   information pertaining to all aspects of study of the Chesapeake Bay.


   Potential Partners (including logos)    Potential Partners (text only)
   Contains a list of organizations currently doing research on the
   Chesapeake bay who might benefit from the services of the CBRSC.

   Links
   Contains links to pages with useful information about the Chesapeake
   Bay that is related to functions of the CBRSC.

   Articles and General Information
   Contains articles, or links to articles, and general information about
   the Chesapeake bay pertinent to CBRSC activities.

   Applications
   Contains a list of potential remote sensing applications related to the
   Chesapeake Bay

   For resources currently available to set up the CBRSC please see: John
   Bolton's Remote Sensing Laboratory Resources

   For John Bolton's CV, please see: John Bolton's Experience


                              CARSTAD Home Page

            This page was last updated Friday, December 14, 2001
