http://chemdata.nist.gov/mass-spc/Srch_v1.7/index.html

                         NIST MS Search Upgrade Page

   MS SEARCH SOFTWARE UPGRADE FOR USE WITH THE NIST/EPA/NIH MASS SPECTRAL
   LIBRARY

        Version 2.0 Upgrade    Version 1.7 Upgrade   Other Information

   This is page is for software updates only.  The NIST 98 library is not
   included in this download.  A demo of version 2.0 with a sample library
   is now available.  AMDIS (Automated Mass Spectral Deconvolution and
   Identification System) can be downloaded separately.

   VERSION 2.0 UPGRADE

   This upgrade installs version 2.0 of the NIST MS Search Program.  This
   upgrade will not replace your NIST MS Search Program v 1.6 or 1.7, but
   it will upgrade any previously distributed version 2.0 files.  Please
   refer to readme_v20.txt included in the zip file below for more
   details.

   UPGRADE INSTRUCTIONS:  Detailed instructions are included in
   readme_v20.txt in the zip file.  Please read this document before
   downloading the complete zip file.  For this upgrade to work properly,
   it is important that the MS Search Program is not open when the files
   are extracted.

                           v17down.gif (769 bytes)


   WHAT IS NEW IN VERSION 2.0 (released March 2000).

   32 Bit Program  The NIST MS Search v2.0 is a true 32 bit application
   and thus requires Windows NT 4.0, 95, 98, Me or 2000.

   Structure Searching  The search program will now find all data based on
   its structural similarity. The searching can be done with either data
   from the NIST MS library, a user MS library or from a structure drawn
   in most chemical drawing packages. To enable structure search in user
   libraries use strdbld.exe to create and update structure indexing.

   User Library Structures  Present since version 1.6, but possibly new to
   some of the users.

   Overall User Interface  The user interface should be easier to use and
   more conformant with normal Windows conventions.

   Compare Views  There are a number of new ways that to visually compare
   two spectra.

   Drag and Drop  Data can be dragged and dropped between windows.

   Direct interaction with a number of chemical drawing packages  For
   details see "How to send a drawing to a structure drawing program".


   VERSION 1.7 UPGRADE

   This upgrade converts version 1.6 of the Search program to version 1.7.
   This package only includes the files necessary for this upgrade.  To
   upgrade from earlier versions (version 1.5 and earlier) please contact
   NIST Standard Reference Data.

   UPGRADE INSTRUCTIONS:  Download the zip file and extract the program
   files into the same folder as version 1.6 (it is usually named NIST98).
   Note that this procedure overwrites several file. For this to work
   properly, it is important that the MS Search Program is not open when
   the files are extracted.

                           v17down.gif (769 bytes)

   WHAT IS NEW IN VERSION 1.7 (released November 1999).

   Incremental Name Search in User Libraries  User Libraries can now be
   searched with incremental names in the Incremental Name Search window.
   Choose the library you want to search from the Libraries drop down list
   box.

   Full Support of Synonyms  Chemical name synonyms are now included in
   the User Libraries. The synonyms in User Libraries are fully searchable
   both in the Incremental Name Search and in the Name in User Library
   search (full synonym name only). Older libraries (created prior to
   v.1.7) must first have user library names indexed by Update User
   Library Names in the Tools Menu.

   m/z Corrections  When spectral files are imported, m/z corrections can
   be made to transform non-integer m/z values into integer m/z values.
   The NIST/EPA/NIH Mass Spectral Library contains only spectra with
   'normalized' integer m/z, non-integer m/z values must be rounded to
   integer m/z values for proper library searching.  Imported m/z  values
   can be multiplied by some factor (e.g., for correct rounding
   compensating for mass defects) and/ or have a constant added/subtracted
   (e.g., to correct for mass offsets).  Since mass defect depends on
   elemental formula rather than molecular weight, this approximation will
   begin to fail at sufficiently high molecular weights (above 1000
   daltons).

   More Pre-Search options  When searching a user spectrum the pre-search
   may be turned off. This can improve the match quality of spectra that
   have only a small degree of similarity to the submitted spectrum. Also,
   if the molecular weight of the target is known in advance, a MW
   pre-search may be chosen rather than the default option chosen in the
   Identity Search or Similarity Search. The MW pre-search is not a new
   feature, but the control has a new appearance.

   Additional improvements
     * Faster User Libraries building
     * Faster spectral import from text files
     * Editing/importing that used to take minutes now takes just seconds
       with v.1.7.
     * Input spectra can contain up to 10,000 peaks. However, only the
       most significant 800 peaks are retained.
     * Long file names are recognized in the locator files (e.g.
       autoimp.msd) used with instrument data systems for automatic
       importing spectral data under MS Windows 95/98 or NT.
     * Software to convert JCAMP files to the NIST library format.  This
       software for 32 bit operating systems also converts ChemStation,
       .MSP, and .SDF formats to the NIST library format.  Synonyms and
       chemical structures in the original library are included in the
       converted NIST library format.  [library.gif]


   Instrument Specific Information

   ChemStation Information

   Third Party Compatibility Issues

   Other Information

   Overheads from Presentations
