http://mewg.cap.gov/html/the_civil_air_patrol_story.html


   [clearpixel.gif]                           [clearpixel.gif]
                    Picture

                    Maine Wing
                    Cadet Programs
                    Command Staff
                    Liaison Office
                    The Civil Air Patrol Story
                    Maine Wing Squadrons
                    Links

   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]
   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]
   The Civil Air Patrol Story
   Picture

   BIRTH OF CAP

   Civil Air Patrol was conceived in the late 1930s by legendary New
   Jersey aviation advocate Gill Robb Wilson, who foresaw aviation's role
   in war and general  aviation's potential to supplement America's
   unprepared military. Wilson, then aviation editor of The New York
   Herald Tribune and later NJ Aeronautics Commissioner, first sold the
   idea to New Jersey's governor, who created a statewide organization.
   Wilson then convinced New York mayor (and National Civil Defense Chief)
   Fiorello La Guardia of the need for a civilian air defense
   organization. The new Civil Air Patrol was born on December 1, 1941,
   just days before the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor.

   The CAP insignia, a red three-bladed propeller in the Civil Defense
   white-triangle-in-blue-circle, began appearing on private aircraft
   everywhere. (The red markings were later deleted for aircraft in combat
   areas to prevent confusion with enemy insignia.) CAP initially planned
   only on liaison flying and interdiction of infiltrators on the East
   Coast and the southern border, but CAP's mission grew when German
   submarines began to prey on American ships.

   COASTAL PATROL

   America entered the war with meager maritime defenses on the East
   Coast. Gasoline and oil shortages grew and vital war supplies for
   Europe were nearly choked  off as enemy subs operated with
   impunityoften within sight of the beach. Tankers and freighters were
   going to the bottom in record numbers. While the American military
   frantically geared up to meet the threat,  ships were torpedoed in the
   mouth of the Connecticut River and in the Saint Lawrence. One surfaced
   sub actually motored right into outer New York harbor on January 15,
   navigating by reference to a New York City tourist map and visible
   landmarks like the Ferris wheel at Coney Island. Subs could blast their
   prey at night as targets became silhouetted against still brightly lit
   coastal resorts. Usually unopposed, they could attack on the surface
   using deck guns to conserve torpedoes. Even years later, New Jersey
   teens termed their secluded romantic interludes on the beach, "Watching
   The Submarine Races."

   As tankers burned, Philadelphia-based Sun Oil (Sunoco), along with
   other concerned companies, established a "Tanker Protection Fund" to
   establish  civilian coastal patrol bases until government financial
   support caught up. Volunteers came from everywhere and within months,
   some 40,000 signed up, ranging from over-age World War I fliers to
   aviation heroes and Hollywood celebrities.

   CAP pilots provided their own airplanes and equipment, and often
   couldn't cover expenses on their $8 per flying-day government pay,
   which often arrived two  months late. Civic organizations across the
   nation chipped in with "Sink-a-Sub Clubs," staging fund raisers for
   Coastal Patrol.

   The military required an initial 90-day trial in early 1942 to prove
   civilians could do the job, so Coastal Patrol began as an experiment at
   the three "hot spots" of the submarine bloodbath: Atlantic City, New
   Jersey; Rehoboth Beach, Delaware; and Lantana, Florida. Flying up to
   200 miles offshore were pilots whose previous overwater experience had
   been crossing the wide part of the Delaware River from below Wilmington
   over to the South Jersey side. They wore military uniforms and "U.S."
   insignia so they would be prisoners of war if captured, not  shot as
   guerrillas.

   Atlantic City's initial flight was out only 15 minutes when it spotted
   its first torpedoed tanker and started coordinating rescue efforts. The
   presence of CAP raised tanker crew morale during the war and was even
   credited with convincing torpedoed tankermen to accept another
   assignment back at sea. A CAP crew first interrupted a sub attack on a
   flight out of Rehoboth Beach, saving a tanker off Cape May, New Jersey.
   Since radio calls for military bombers were often unproductive, unarmed
   CAP fliers dived in mock attacks to force subs to break and run.

   Many CAP aviators earned membership in the "Duck Club" for their
   numerous engine failures and subsequent ditchings at sea. Radio calls
   to CAP's  communications network, if made in time on weak one-watt
   sets, brought CAP twin-engine Grumman Widgeon amphibians to the rescue.
   The first Air Medals of World War II presented in person by President
   Roosevelt went to CAP pilots Eddie Edwards and Hugh Sharp for one such
   rescue, which saved one of two crewmembers down in a bitterly cold
   wintertime ditching. Edwards had to perch on the Widgeon's wing to
   counterbalance the loss  of the opposite pontoon, ripped away in the
   rescuers' landing. A half-frozen Edwards clung there for 11 hours as
   the unflyable Widgeon was water taxied all night to shore.

   CAP planes got bombs and depth charges after a crew watched in vain as
   a grounded sub off Cape Canaveral, Florida, escaped before the military
   arrived. CAP  Coastal Patrol flew 24 million miles, found 173 subs,
   attacked 57, hit 10 and sank two. By Presidential Executive Order, CAP
   became an auxiliary of the Army Air Forces on April 29, 1943. The
   military had resisted  "those country-club pilots" and their "toy
   planes," but 21 CAP Coastal Patrol bases from Maine to Texas had soon
   deterred close-in submarine operations. By August 31, 1943, it was time
   for  Coastal Patrol to stand down. A German commander later confirmed
   that coastal U-boat operations were withdrawn "because of those damned
   little red and yellow airplanes."

   OTHER WARTIME MISSIONS

   CAP went on to target towing operations, courier service for the Army,
   liaison and cargo flights between war plants, Southern Border patrol
   against enemy infiltrators crossing from Mexico, and air search and
   rescue. Non-flying CAP members guarded airfields and trained a rapidly
   growing corps of CAP cadets. CAP searched for many military planes that
   had gone down on training or ferry missions around the United States.
   After a B-24 crash landed one winter atop Mount Baldy near Taos, New
   Mexico, a CAP Taylorcraft made six successful landings at 12,800 feet
   to deliver survival rations and recover crucial equipment. Nevada CAP
   actually had its own cavalry of sorts, conducting ground rescue
   operations in rough territory on horseback, including 24 mounts
   transferred from the Army's now-obsolete Cavalry at Ft. Riley, Kansas.

   Inland operations were typified by the flying of Liaison Pilot Bill
   "Pappy" Madsen, operations officer for the "Mountain Boys" flying from
   Peterson Field in Colorado Springs, Colorado. CAP's operations in the
   Rockies actually pioneered many routes and mountain flying concepts
   still in use today. Colorado-based courier pilots operated 100
   scheduled  flights a day over 50 routes, carrying 3.5 million pounds of
   cargo to military bases in 17 states. Seven courier pilots died in the
   mountains of the West, with a like number perishing in the East on
   flights between war plants.

   Women were actively recruited by CAP. In addition to support duties at
   Coastal Patrol bases, women pilots flew inland liaison, forest fire
   patrol and other missions. By war's end, women made up 20 percent of
   the Civil Air Patrol. These women were not immune to duty's dangers.
   Margaret Bartholomew, commander of the Cincinnati courier station, was
   lost in the western  Pennsylvania mountains after departing
   Williamsport, unaware of a surprise storm ahead. Departing just as new
   weather information reached Williamsport, Bartholomew did not hear the
   tower's desperate attempts to  recall her flight.

   In all, Civil Air Patrol flew a half-million hours during World War II
   and 64 CAP aviators lost their lives.

   CAP's role after the war was much in question, and it was widely
   expected to fade away along with most other wartime institutions. But
   military and political leaders rose to praise CAP's unusual commitment
   and accomplishment. At a special dinner in Washington, DC in March,
   1946, President Harry Truman, Speaker of the House Sam Rayburn, and no
   less than 300 members of  Congress and 50 AAF generals gathered to
   praise its work. President Truman later signed a bill granting CAP a
   national charter, placing the organization in a unique status similar
   to the American Red Cross. The United States Air Force was created as
   an independent armed service in September, 1947, and the Civil Air
   Patrol was permanently designated as its official auxiliary the
   following year.

   THE PEACETIME CAP

   Since air search and rescue had been one of CAP's primary missions
   during the war, it was obvious there was no other organization with the
   equipment and training to continue this vital job in the post-war
   years. Even though there were plenty of military aircraft available,
   they cost far too much to operate and flew too fast for accurate
   spotting of downed planes and personnel. Military pilots were expensive
   to train as well, and mission requirements limited their availability
   for search and rescue work. Civil Air Patrol, with its proven record of
   volunteer service using light aircraft, was put to work.

   By 1954, CAP was flying over 50 percent of the search and rescue hours
   flown in the country and according to the Air Force Air Rescue Service,
   was saving the  country $46 million a year--the cost equal to the
   military and flight pay of the 12,000 fliers that would have been
   needed to fly the missions had CAP not been available.

   In October 1954, Navy pilot Joe Meder became one of the many crash
   survivors who owe their lives to CAP. Flying at night at 40,000 feet in
   stormy skies, he was forced to eject from his burning Banshee jet
   fighter. Falling almost 30,000 feet as he wrestled with his ejection
   seat, he was able to separate from it and get his parachute open, only
   to have it rip and begin to lose air. He slammed into the ground,
   breaking both ankles and numerous other bones, and puncturing a lung.
   He crawled 150 feet before collapsing in a rain drenched bean field.
   Nearing death, Meder was spotted at first light by CAP pilots Vince
   Causmaker and John Zonge who were part of a two-state air and ground
   search team.

   When floods ravaged Kentucky, Virginia and West Virginia in 1957, CAP
   ground, air and radio teams swung into action. CAP planes flew vital
   serum and vaccines  to forward areas unreachable by heavier military
   aircraft. Ground teams helped in the evacuation of cities and towns. In
   the Hazard, Kentucky area, the CAP radio net handled most of the
   traffic for the emergency agencies, coordinated the activities of Army
   rescue helicopters, controlled CAP activities in the area, and
   broadcast weather advisories from the U.S. Weather Bureau.

   By the 1960s and `70s, CAP was logging over 75 percent of the search
   and rescue hours flown each year. The burgeoning civil aircraft fleet
   was the primary impetus for the continued need for a growing CAP
   organization, but the CAP's parent organization, the U.S. Air Force,
   sometimes had to use Civil Air Patrol's search and rescue skills as
   well. When an F-111  fighter-bomber went down in the southwest, CAP
   members from six states were called up in a 15 day search and rescue
   operation. CAP pilots flew over 80 percent of the 1,400 sorties flown.

   On May 18, 1980, Mt. St. Helens in Washington exploded, devastating
   approximately 150 square miles and triggering massive mud flows, floods
   and ashfalls.  When the county sheriff asked the Civil Air Patrol for
   help, CAP members were quickly on the scene, establishing a 24 hour
   headquarters, plotting leads, aiding search and rescue missions, and
   updating weather  advisories. CAP teams assisted in several out-lying
   command centers and worked in ash cleanup crews.

   Next page of the CAP Story

              Sign our Guestbook             View our Guestbook

                    Webmaster: Colonel Craig R Treadwell

                  Last Modified on Friday, August 30, 2001
