http://deepimpact.jpl.nasa.gov

   [USEMAP:top-navbar-test.jpg]

   Artist's Rendering of Comet Tempel 1 DEEP IMPACT - First Look Inside a
   Comet
   Artist's Rendering of Comet Tempel 1
   DEEP IMPACT - First Look Inside a Comet home search sitemap frequently
   asked questions contact us DEEP IMPACT - First Look Inside a Comet
   Artist's Rendering of Comet Tempel 1 A Partnership of: University of
   Maryland, Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of
   Technology, Ball Aerospace & Technologies Corporation
   Artist's Rendering of Comet Tempel 1

   contents:
   MISSION: See how the mission works and meet the team
   SCIENCE: All about comets, mission science objectives and more
   TECHNOLOGY: About the spacecraft, systems and launch vehicle
   GALLERY: Images, videos and more
   EDUCATION: Standards based activities and opportunities
   DISCOVERY ZONE: Fun for you and your community
   PRESS: News and resources
   [navbar-l1-fade.jpg]

   An encounter with a comet!

   Check out new activities for educators!

   Deep Impact will be the first mission to make a spectacular football
   field-sized crater seven stories deep on a speeding comet. Dramatic
   images from both the flyby spacecraft and the impactor will be sent
   back to distant Earth as data in near-real time. These first-ever views
   beneath a comet's surface and other instrument readings will provide
   clues to the formation of the solar system. Amateur astronomers, some
   already tracking the comet, will offer the public a first-hand look at
   this incredible July 2005 encounter.
   Features
   Feature: Deep Impact goes to Tempel 1! Feature: See how our mission
   flies Small Telescope Science Program: Real images of Comet Tempel 1
   Deep Impact goes to Tempel 1! Speaking of impacts... Small Telescope
   Science Program: Real images of Comet Tempel 1

   Jet Propulsion Laboratory
   University of Maryland
   Ball Corporation

   NASA Office of Space Science
   Solar System Exploration Discovery Program
   Small Bodies Missions
   Web Curator: Maura Rountree-Brown
   Webmaster: David Martin
   Last Updated: 23-Jan-2002
   Questions? Contact Maura Rountree-Brown.
   Privacy Statement
