http://www.eldercare.gov

   U.S. Administration on Aging About Eldercare Locator National Aging
   Network Eldercare Search
   Eldercare Locator -- Find Community Assistance for Seniors
   Thanks for visiting the site!

   Eldercare Locator Home | HHS Home

    You are here: Eldercare Locator Home Page
   Eldercare Search

   Elder person
   The Eldercare Locator is an important place to go for resources.

                                   Welcome

   Since 1991, the Eldercare Locator, a nationwide toll-free service, has
   helped older adults and their caregivers find local services for
   seniors. The U.S. Administration on Aging is now pleased to make part
   of this service available on-line so that consumers can easily link to
   the information and referral (I&R) services of their state and area
   agencies on aging. These I&R programs can help you identify appropriate
   services in the area where you or your family member resides.

   If you want more specific references, however, call the Eldercare
   Locator to speak to an Information Specialist who has access to a
   database of more than 4,800 entries. The toll-free Eldercare Locator
   service operates Monday through Friday, 9:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m., Eastern
   time, and can be reached at 1-800-677-1116. For more information on the
   Eldercare Locator, please click on the About the Eldercare Locator
   page.

   To begin your online search, enter your state and zip code.

                              Updated: 11/16/01


       Select state and enter zip code
           [state]  Zip Code: _____
                    submit
   Need Help Finding Zip Codes? Click Here.

   Links to Other Resources

   Caregiver Resources
   arrow  Caregiver Internet Resources
   arrow  Alzheimer's Information

   Aging Resources
   arrow  AoA Website
   arrow  FirstGov for Seniors
   arrow  Long Term Care Ombudsmen Programs
   arrow  National Aging Information Center
   arrow  The National Center on Elder Abuse

    Call the Eldercare Locator at 1-800-677-1116

   Contact Info | Access Statement | Privacy
   Notice | FOIA | Disclaimer | Help
