http://vote98.ss.ca.gov

   California Secretary of State
   1998 General Election - November 3, 1998


   Voter Guide  |   Campaign Finance  |   Late Contributions  |   Election
   Returns  |   Feedback


   Bill Jones Photo Thank you for taking the time to visit the official
   web site for California's 1998 General Election to be held November 3,
   1998. I am pleased to again provide the on-line Voter Information Guide
   and Ballot Pamphlet for California voters to use as we all prepare to
   cast our ballots in this year's election.

   On election day, remember to check back with this site after the polls
   close when we will be posting LIVE returns as they come in from around
   the state.

   And don't forget -- you must be registered to vote by October 5, 1998
   to be able to cast your ballot on November 3.

   I hope to see you all at the polls,

   Bill Jones Signature
   Voter Information Guide and Ballot Pamphlet
   Includes the Certified List of Candidates and the Judicial Information
   Guide. This is California's official source of information for
   statewide candidates and ballot measures - the electronic version of
   the printed Voter Information Guide that is mailed to all registered
   voters.
   Campaign Finance on the Internet
   Recent legislation will require most campaigns in the 2000 elections to
   file their contribution and expenditure reports electronically so that
   the information can be published on the Internet. For this election,
   Secretary of State Bill Jones has invited candidates to participate in
   a voluntarily electronic filing pilot project. Of the more than 326
   candidates for office statewide, 31 have agreed to participate.
   Late Contribution Reports on the Internet
   Which candidates are receiving the most contributions in the last days
   before the election? During the final sixteen days before an election
   candidates are required to disclose contributions of $1,000 or more
   within 24 hours. Once again, Secretary of State Bill Jones will be
   posting those disclosures on this web site. Secretary Jones first
   posted this last minute contribution data on the secretary of state's
   web site during the June, 1998 election, building on an earlier effort
   put forth by the California Voter Foundation for the 1996 general
   election.
   Live Election Returns
   The political observer's favorite site. This is where you will be able
   to see live returns from all around California after the polls close on
   November 3. During the June Primary, our Primary98 site received almost
   2 million visits in a 24-hour period!
   Find Your Polling Place
   A list of links to county web sites where you can find out where to
   vote.
   California Secretary of State Elections Division
   Need to register to vote? Have questions about the election process?
   Want to review voter registration statistics or research historical
   voter turnout data? The Secretary of State's Elections Division web
   page has all you need -- and more.
   California Secretary of State Poltical Reform Division
   The Secretary of State's Political Reform Division receives candidate
   and initiative contribution disclosure reports and publishes summaries
   of campaign finance data. Check here for summaries of past election
   campaign finance data.

   This service is provided with assistance from...

   Digital logo

   Compaq
   DIGITAL Products and Services

   Technical services, consulting and support.
   500Mz 64-bit Alpha servers.


   Cisco logo

   Cisco Systems

   Networking products and services,
   Local Director load balancers,
   Catalyst 5505 Ethernet switches


   ELI logo

   Electric Lightwave, Inc.

   10 Megabit/second Internet connectivity
