http://www.la.nrcs.usda.gov


   Severe erosion site improved with grassed waterway conservation measure
   Louisiana - USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service Is conservation
   worth it? You bet it is!

                       louisiana gif.GIF (2888 bytes)
      Every day, NRCS keeps its commitment to protecting and conserving
                natural resources on America's private lands.


   [ISMAP:row_of_vert_grn_buttons_7-27-01.gif]-Click on area of interest
   Send mail to the Louisiana WebmasterPlease send us your comments
   regarding this web site.

              Louisiana map with links to USDA Service Centers
                              Donald W. Gohmert
                            State Conservationist
                           3737 Government Street
                            Alexandria, LA 71303
                            Phone: (318) 473-7751
                          Fax:      (318) 473-7682

   Coming Soon . . . Click here for more information on a new database of
                             Louisiana's plants.
   Of Special Interest - Click Category for More Information

   Check out these new publications: Click here to view these publications

   and review Louisiana's:
   Business Plan
   Performance Plan

    The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) prohibits discrimination in
    all its programs and activities on the basis of race, color, national
    origin, gender, religion, age, disability, political beliefs, sexual
    orientation, and marital or family status. (Not all prohibited bases
        apply to all programs.) Persons with disabilities who require
    alternative means for communication of program information (Braille,
    large print, audiotape, etc.) should contact USDA's TARGET Center at
                        202-720-2600 (voice and TDD).

   To file a complaint of discrimination, write USDA, Director, Office of
      Civil Rights, Room 326W, Whitten Building, 14th and Independence
   Avenue, SW, Washington, DC 20250-9410 or call (202) 720-5964 (voice or
          TDD). USDA is an equal opportunity provider and employer.


   Government System Usage Policy
   This information service operates on a U.S. Government computer system.
   This system is monitored to ensure proper operation, to verify the
   functioning of applicable security features, and for other like
   purposes. Anyone using this system expressly consents to such
   monitoring and is advised that if such monitoring reveals evidence of
   possible criminal activity, system personnel may provide the evidence
   of such activity to law enforcement officials. Unauthorized attempts to
   upload or change information; to defeat or circumvent security
   features; or to utilize this system for other than its intended
   purposes are prohibited.
