http://www.parks.wa.gov


   Return to Washington State Park's Home Page Updated 1-01-2002

   Home
   Reservations
   Park Information
   Rental Places
   Activities
   Agency Information
   ADA Recreation
   Site Map & Search


Washington State Parks and Recreation Commission

   Youre a click away from all youll need to plan a visit to one – or all
   – of Washingtons splendid state parks. From sandy coastal beaches and
   sheltered Puget Sound islands to sun-baked lakes and lava flows east of
   the Cascade Mountains, few states can match the powerful natural beauty
   of Washington.
   Washingtons many state parks offer every sort of outdoor recreation,
   from traditional camping, hiking, cross-country skiing and boating to
   windsurfing and rockclimbing. They also protect and preserve important
   places from our past. Theres no end to what youll discover –
   prehistoric rock paintings, weathered pioneer homesteads, a string of
   coastal forts from the turn of the 20th century – in Washington state
   parks.
    What Youll Find on this Site

   Reservations
   How to reserve campsites and group facilities in Washington State
   Parks.
   Park Information Seals at marine parks
   Fact-packed listings for each of Washingtons 125 State Parks. Allows
   you to search for parks by name, by features or by geographical region.
   Rental Places
   Details on State Parks' unique rental facilities, including vacation
   houses, a conference center and a lodge, cabins, yurts, platform tents
   and environmental learning centers. You'll be pleasantly surprised with
   the variety of overnight and day-use business and leisure facilities
   available for rent in beautiful park settings across the state!
   Boating Program
   A practical resource for making the most of boating in Washington
   state, including moorage permits available for purchase online. You'll
   also find moorage and pumpout information and locations, boating and
   safety regulations, answers to frequently-asked questions and important
   boating hyperlinks.
   Winter Recreation
   Everything you'll need to know to take advantage of Washington's great
   winter recreation opportunities, including a list of Sno-Park locations
   and permit vendors.
   Agency Information
   A behind-the-scenes look at the Washington State Parks and Recreation
   Commission. Includes a history of the park system, budget information,
   volunteer/employment opportunities and who to contact for more
   information on just about any subject concerning Washington State
   Parks.
   Accessible Outdoor Recreation Guide
   A comprehensive list of Washington state's outdoor recreation sites
   compliant with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and managed by
   State Parks, the state departments of Natural Resources and Fish and
   Wildlife, and the U.S. Forest Service.
   Help and Frequently Asked Questions
   Answers to questions most frequently asked of State Parks information
   specialists.

    Facts and Figures

   Washington boasts one of the largest and busiest state park systems in
   the United States. It ranks sixth among all 50 states in number of
   areas managed, fourth in day-use attendance and eighth in number of
   overnight visitors served. At the same time, due to budget constraints,
   it ranks 47th in state dollars spent per park visitor – 78 cents in
   Washington compared to a nationwide average of $1.96.
     * Total number of developed parks: 125
     * Total acreage: 260,000
     * Total annual visitors: more than 46 million
     * Marine parks: 21
     * Picnic area tables: 5,000
     * Individual campsites: 8,013
     * Group campsites: 1,073
     * Interpretive centers: 13
     * Historic buildings: 608


     * Miles of hiking trails: 642.6
     * Miles of horse trails: 112.9
     * Miles of cross-country ski trails: 300
     * Miles of snowmobile trails: 3,000
     * Miles of wheelchair-accessible trails: 18.9
     * Designated swim beaches: 35
     * Underwater (scuba) areas: 11
     * Ski lifts: 5


   Parking fee put on hold


    Online Reservations!

   Make a reservation at one of Washington state parks now.


    Current Information

   Special offers, public issues and new developments in Washington State
   Parks.

   Beacon Rock
    Best-Kept Secrets

   Tips for exploring one of Washington's "undiscovered" parks, with a
   different park featured each month.


    Vacation Houses

   Year-round historic accommodations in beautiful outdoor settings.

   Marmot at Lake Chelan
    Pass Program

   Passes and permits available to visitors to Washington state parks.

    Regulations

   Rules and regulations governing activities in Washington state parks.

    Fees

   Fees paid by visitors are used exclusively to support our State Parks
   system.

   Kayaking State park waterways
   Camping at Lake Sylvia
   Winter Recreation

   Copyright © 2002 Washington State Parks
   Please review our privacy policy.
   Contact us.
   Return to Washington State Park's Home Page

   Home Page | Reservations | Park Information | Rental Places

   Activities  | Agency Information | ADA Recreation

   Site Map & Search
   Washington State Government Information & Services
