http://primary98.ss.ca.gov

   California Secretary of State
               1998 Primary Election - June 2, 1998
   The November 1998 General Election site is at Vote98.ss.ca.gov


   Voter Guide / Ballot Pamphlet  |  Election Returns  |  Late
   Contribution Reports


   Bill Jones Photo Thank you for taking the time to visit the official
   web site for California's first ever Open Primary election to be held
   June 2, 1998. I am pleased to provide this on-line ballot pamphlet and
   voter information guide once again for California voters to use as we
   all prepare to cast our ballots in this year's primary.

   After the polls close on election night, remember to check back with
   this site where we will post LIVE returns as they are available from
   across the state.

   And don't forget -- you must be registered to vote by May 4, 1998, to
   be able to cast your ballot on June 2.

   I hope to see you all at the polls,

   Bill Jones Signature
   Find Your Polling Place
   A list of links to county web sites where you can find out where to
   vote.
   Voter Information Guide and Ballot Pamphlet
   Includes the Certified List of Candidates. This is California's
   official source of information for statewide candidates and ballot
   measures - the electronic version of the printed Voter Information
   Guide that is mailed to all registered voters.
   California Secretary of State Elections Division
   Need to register to vote? Have questions about the new Open Primary?
   Want to review voter registration statistics or research historical
   voter turnout data? The Secretary of State's Elections Division web
   page has all you need -- and more.
   Campaign Finance Disclosure
   The Secretary of State's Political Reform Division receives candidate
   and initiative contribution disclosure reports and publishes summaries
   of campaign finance data. Check here for summaries of past election
   campaign finance data.
   Live Election Night Returns on June 2, 1998
   The political observer's favorite site. This is where you will be able
   to see live returns from all across California after the polls close on
   June 2. In November of 1996, this site received more than 1 million
   visits in a 24-hour period!
   Late Contribution Reports on the Internet
   Which candidates are receiving the most contributions in the last days
   before the election? During the final sixteen days before an election
   candidates are required to disclose contributions of $1,000 or more
   within 24 hours. For the first time this June, Secretary of State Bill
   Jones will be converting those paper documents into an electronic form
   for posting on this web site.

   This service operates with assistance from...

   Wyle logo

   Wyle Electronics

   Digital Alphaservers


   Digital logo

   Digital Equipment Corporation

   Technical services, consulting and support


   ELI logo

   Electric Lightwave, Inc.

   10 Megabit/second Internet connectivity
