http://earth.jsc.nasa.gov

                      Earth from Space Earth from Space
                                 Search by:


   The NASA Space Shuttle Earth Observations Photography database of over
   400,000 images is a national treasure.

   We are publishing these selected photos and related captions on the
   Internet to provide a glimpse of this national treasure to the public.
   This database was compiled by our staff to illustrate some very
   interesting Earth features and processes, including cities as seen by
   our Astronauts from space.

   Earth from Space provides several ways to search the selected images.
   Each image is available in three resolutions and includes a cataloging
   data and a caption. However, this site contains only a small selection
   of the best of our Earth photography. The complete database of NASA's
   Earth imagery is available at the Gateway to Astronaut Photography of
   Earth, which contains more than 400,000 images.

   The information contained in this collection is for informational
   purposes only and does not constitute official NASA positions or
   statements. We plan to update the database as new information becomes
   available. We encourage you to send us your feedback.

                                Clickable Map
                                   Cities
                              Earth Landscapes
                          Earth-Human Interactions
                            Distinctive Features
                           Hurricanes and Weather
                           Earth's Water Habitats
                             Geographic Regions
                            Technical Search Page
                              Earth from Space

               Announcements Announcements       Announcements


                                 Announcements...

               Announcements Announcements       Announcements


              image: NASA Logo


                              How to Purchase Prints and Slides

                              Frequently Asked Questions

                              Additional NASA Imagery Web Sites

                              Credits


 NASA Human
Space Flight    NASA
             Home Page      NASA
                       Photo Gallery    JSC
                                     Home Page    JSC Digital
                                               Image Collection Earth Sciences &
                                                                Image Analysis
                              Responsibilities:
    Content Provider: Kamlesh P. Lulla Ph.D. Chief, Earth Sciences Branch
                    Responsible NASA Official: Scott Norr
                           Curator: James McAlpin
                           Last Update: 01/22/2002
                         JSC Web Pages Legal Notices
