http://learn.jpl.nasa.gov


   Jet Propulsion Laboratory Home Page - Education Gateway

JPL Home Page Earth Solar System Stars and Galaxies Technology Search
                                                                      __________

   Images and Videos News Missions Events Kids Education Scientists and
                                                         Engineers     About JPL


   [white_space_over_menu.gif]
   [spacer.gif]      [education_search.gif]
                [spacer.gif]                      [spacer.gif]
                Closed Triangle Educators
                Dot             Students
                Dot             Informal Education
                Dot             Educator Resource
                                   Center
                Dot             Team Competitions
                Dot             About JPL
                                   Education
                Dot             NASA Education
                                   Links
                Dot             Friends
   [white_space_between.gif] [welcome_to_JPL_ed_gateway.gif]
   Galileo
   [io_1012_120.jpg] The Galileo Space Craft has long completed its
   primary mission and is now preparing for its Swan Song. It flew by the
   volcanic moon Io today which has placed it on a collision course with
   Jupiter in 2003.
   The Galileo flight team at JPL aimed the orbiter to skim just 100
   kilometers (62 miles) above Io's multicolored surface at 9:09 a.m. EST
   on Jan. 17. "The reason we're going so close is to put Galileo on a
   ballistic trajectory for impact into Jupiter in September 2003,"
   Theilig said. Video [video_icon.gif]
   While approaching Jupiter's moon Io on Thursday, during the seventh
   year of its mission around Jupiter, NASA's Galileo spacecraft placed
   itself into standby mode, awaiting further commands from Earth.
   "We're not totally surprised, because Galileo has already outlived
   expectations and we know that it might encounter additional
   difficulties from the high-radiation environment on this flyby," said
   Dr. Eilene Theilig, Galileo project manager at JPL. "Galileo has
   already lasted more than four years past its original mission and has
   survived three-and-a-half times the radiation it was designed to
   withstand, so it's not unexpected that this flyby would be interrupted
   by a problem."
   One can almost hear Scottie from NASA engineering complaining, "But
   Captain, it wasn't designed for this type of punishment!"
   The Galileo Mission has compiled a great deal of fun and interesting
   curriculum support materials about Jupiter and the mission.
   Jupiter will be at opposition this month (opposite the Sun in our sky),
   which means it will be at its biggest and brightest, dominating the
   constellation Gemini the Twins.
   http://www.astro.indiana.edu/news/startrak.html
   (posted Jan. 18)

   Near miss!
   An asteroid that could pulverize a country zipped close by the Earth on
   Monday, only weeks after astronomers first noticed the big space
   boulder heading in our direction. The Near Earth Object brightened
   enough for even simple telescopes to spot just before it raced past our
   planet on Monday. Fortunately, asteroids this size collide with Earth
   only at average intervals of about 20,000 - 30,000 years. However,
   something as big as YB5 comes as close as this roughly annually.
   For some great educational materials on "small bodies" in our Solar
   System, check out the Stardust Educator Guide.
   (posted Jan. 18)

   9th Annual Great Moonbuggy Race
   Moonbuggy Race participants, 2001 Registration deadline approaches for
   NASA's 9th Annual Great Moonbuggy Race for high school and college
   students eager to try their design, building and athletic skills in the
   9th Annual Great Moonbuggy Race. The sign-up deadline is near, teams
   must be registered for the race by Feb. 1.
   The event, sponsored by NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center in
   Huntsville, Ala., is scheduled for April 12-13 at the U.S. Space &
   Rocket Center in Huntsville.
   For more information about participating in the Great Moonbuggy Race,
   contact Bradford at: (256) 544-5920 or e-mail:
   Durlean.Bradford@msfc.nasa.gov.
   (posted Jan. 18)

   National Congress on Aviation and Space Education
   Aerospace Education Civil Air Patrol logo Attendees will have the
   opportunity to interact with world and national aviation record
   setters, space award recipiants and 2002 International Aviation Art
   Contest winners at this unique event. Attendance to this reception is
   limited and invitations will be extended to people who register early
   for the conference. We hope you will join us for this unforgettable
   experience! This 35th Annual National Congress on Aviation and Space
   Education promises to be one of the best, with such speakers as:
     * Former astronaut Robert "Hoot" Gibson
     * SR-71 pilot Marta Bohn-Meyer
     * Aerospace pioneer A. Scott Crossfield
     * Other invited speakers include First Lady Laura Bush, Secretary of
       Education Rod Paige, Teacher-Astonaut Barbara Morgan and Aviation
       Pioneer Chuck Yeager

   This conference is sponsored by the Civil Air Patrol and other partners
   including NASA. Each year the offer is open to the LA area to Airlift
   educators to the conference for free! The catch is that you have to get
   enough people to sign-up.
   If you would like more information please contact:
   STEVE WILLIAMS
   Director of Aerospace Education
   Pacific Region, Civil Air Patrol
   SteveW@beale.af.mil
   (posted Jan. 18)
   Past Stories
   [highlight_of_week.gif]
   spacer
   Tis the Season for Robots!
   Robot traversing cliff JPL is the lead center for robotic exploration
   of the Solar System. JPL is also a lead center for robotics in the
   classroom. You can learn more about our robotic explorers at the JPL
   Robotics and Rovers site or the feature story called "Researchers Toy
   with New Rover Designs". There are many pictures and videos here of JPL
   robots.
   FIRST Robotics Competition
   FIRST Robotics Competition, 2001 JPL also sponsors many robotic
   educational activities as well. For high school roboticists, the FIRST
   Robotics competition's kickoff events will be happening this weekend.
   The webcast, via NASA TV, can be viewed on the Internet or via
   satellite. You can find more information at the Robotics Education
   Project website. JPL is also hosting a remote kickoff event. You can
   find out more information on the remote information site.
   Botball
   Botball participants Botball is another NASA sponsored robotics
   competition for high school and middle school students. Registration
   for this years competition is still available. Simply go to the
   registration page and fill in the requested information.
   We are also developing a middle school program and elementary school
   robotics program for Southern California Schools. The curriculum
   program is being developed to provide students with an exciting and
   educational unit in mathematics and science using the Mars Exploration
   Rover as a theme. If you are interested in participating in these pilot
   programs please email us and tell us your name (teacher's name), school
   address, and email contact and we will send you more details.
   Past Highlights
   Privacy FAQ Feedback Site Map
