http://casper.jpl.nasa.gov

   [jpllogo.gif] Projects: CASPER, Planning and Scheduling, Artificial
   Intelligence Group [Nasalogo.gif]

   nothing

   artificial intelligence group [_line.gif] planning and scheduling
   [_line.gif] machine learning systems [_line.gif] jpl [_line.gif]
   caltech [_line.gif] nasa

   [dot.gif] [earth.gif]
   nothing
   background description impact technology status significance problem
   sponsors moreinfo publications the team contacts

   Background top

   [casper_pic.gif]

   An autonomous spacecraft must balance long-term and short-term
   considerations. It must perform purposeful activities that ensure
   long-term science and engineering goals are achieved and ensure that it
   maintains positive resource margins. This requires planning in advance
   to avoid a series of shortsighted decisions that can lead to failure.
   However, it must also respond in a timely fashion to a somewhat dynamic
   and unpredictable environment. Thus, spacecraft plans must often be
   modified due to fortuitous events such as early completion of
   observations and setbacks such as failure to acquire a guidestar for a
   science observation.

   CASPER (Continuous Activity Scheduling Planning Execution and
   Replanning) uses iterative repair to support continuous modification
   and updating of a current working plan in light of changing operating
   context.
   AI Technology top
     * Planning and Scheduling
     * Planning and Execution
     * Replanning

   Problem top

   Traditional batch oriented models of planning have shortcomings for
   spacecraft control. Constructing a plan from scratch can be a
   computationally intensive process and onboard computational resources
   are typically quite limited, so that it still may require considerable
   time to generate a new operations plan. As a data point, the planner
   for the Remote Agent Experiment (RAX) flying on-board the New
   Millennium Deep Space One mission takes approximately 4 hours to
   produce a 3 day operations plan. RAX is running on a 25 MHz RAD 6000
   flight processor and uses roughly 25% of the CPU processing power.
   While this is a significant improvement over waiting for ground
   intervention, making the planning process even more responsive (e.g.,
   on a time scale of seconds) to changes in the operations context, would
   increase the overall time for which the spacecraft has a consistent
   plan. As long as a consistent plan exists, the spacecraft can keep busy
   working on the requested goals.
   Impact top

   Making the planner more timely in its responses has a number of
   benefits:
     * The planner can be more responsive to unexpected (i.e.,
       unmodelable) changes in the environment that would manifest
       themselves as updates on the execution status of activities as well
       as monitored state and resource values.
     * The planner can reduce reliance on predictive models (e.g.,
       inevitable modeling errors), since it will be updating its plans
       continually.
     * Fault protection and execution layers need to worry about
       controlling the spacecraft over a shorter time horizon (as the
       planner will replan within a shorter time span).

   Status top

       CASPER is being used in a range of projects including autonomous
       spacecraft, autonomous rovers, ground communications station
       automation, and uninhabited aerial vehicles.
       Applications:

     * Autonomous Spacecraft - 3CS
     * Autonomous Spacecraft - TS-21
     * Rover Sequence Generation
     * Distributed Rovers
     * CLEaR (Closed Loop Execution and Recovery)

     ASPEN and CASPER are currently available for external licensing.
   Click here for more information.

   Description top

   To achieve a higher level of responsiveness in a dynamic planning
   situation, we utilize a continuous planning approach and have
   implemented a system called CASPER (for Continuous Activity Scheduling
   Planning Execution and Replanning). Rather than considering planning a
   batch process in which a planner is presented with goals and an initial
   state, the planner has a current goal set, a plan, a current state, and
   a model of the expected future state. At any time an incremental update
   to the goals or current state may update the current state of the plan
   and thereby invoke the planner process. This update may be an
   unexpected event or simply time progressing forward. The planner is
   then responsible for maintaining a consistent, satisficing plan with
   the most current information. This current plan and projection is the
   planner's estimation as to what it expects to happen in the world if
   things go as expected. However, since things rarely go exactly as
   expected, the planner stands ready to continually modify the plan.
   Current iterative repair planning techniques enable incremental changes
   to the goals and the initial state or plan and then iteratively resolve
   any conflicts in the plan. After each update, its effects will be
   propagated through the current projections, conflicts identified, and
   the plan updated (e.g., plan repair algorithms invoked).

   Significance top

   CASPER enables faster response to changing environments than a
   traditional batch-oriented planning approach.

   More Information top

     * ASPEN home page

   Publications top

   Please Note:
   This material is provided for your personal use only and may not be
   retransmitted or redistributed without permission in writing from the
   paper's publisher and/or author. You may not upload this material to
   any public server, on-line service, network, or bulletin board without
   prior written permission from the publisher and/or author. You may not
   make copies for any commercial purpose. This material is not public
   domain. Reproduction or storage of materials retrieved from this web
   site are subject to the U.S. Copyright Act of 1976, Title 17 U.S.C.

   S. Chien, R. Knight, A. Stechert, R. Sherwood, and G. Rabideau, "Using
   Iterative Repair to Increase the Responsiveness of Planning and
   Scheduling for Autonomous Spacecraft," IJCAI99 Workshop on Scheduling
   and Planning meet Real-time Monitoring in a Dynamic and Uncertain
   World, Stockholm, Sweden, August 1999. (PostScript) (PDF)

   S. Chien, R. Knight, A. Stechert, R. Sherwood, G. Rabideau, "Integrated
   Planning and Execution for Autonomous Spacecraft," Proceedings of the
   IEEE Aerospace Conference (IAC), Aspen, CO, March 1999. (PDF)

   T. Estlin, G. Rabideau, D. Mutz and, S. Chien, "Using Continuous
   Planning Techniques to Coordinate Multiple Rovers," IJCAI99 Workshop on
   Scheduling and Planning meet Real-time Monitoring in a Dynamic and
   Uncertain World, Stockholm, Sweden, August 1999. (PostScript) (PDF)

   G. Rabideau, R. Knight, S. Chien, A. Fukunaga, A. Govindjee, "Iterative
   Repair Planning for Spacecraft Operations in the ASPEN System,"
   International Symposium on Artificial Intelligence Robotics and
   Automation in Space (ISAIRAS), Noordwijk, The Netherlands, June 1999.
   (PostScript) (PDF)

   Contacts top

   ASPEN Project Contact:
   Dr. Steve Chien, AI Group,
   Steve.Chien@jpl.nasa.gov, (818) 393-5320

   JPL Technical Contact:
   Dr. Steve Chien, AI Group,
   Steve.Chien@jpl.nasa.gov, (818) 393-5320

   JPL Program Contact:
   Dave Atkinson, Autonomy Program

   ASPEN Licensing Information:
   Click here for more info

   The Project Team top

   Dr. Steve Chien
   Steve.Chien@jpl.nasa.gov, (818) 393-5320

   Russell Knight
   Russell.Knight@jpl.nasa.gov

   Gregg Rabideau
   Gregg.Rabideau@jpl.nasa.gov

   Robert Sherwood
   Robert.Sherwood@jpl.nasa.gov

   Darren Mutz
   Darren.Mutz@jpl.nasa.gov
   Forest Fisher
   Forest Fisher@jpl.nasa.gov

   Tara Estlin
   Tara.Estlin@jpl.nasa.gov

   Sponsors top

   Sponsored By:
   NASA Code SM
   Autonomy program, Dave Atkinson (JPL) managing.
   Telecommunications and Mission Operations Technology (TMOT)
   Peter Shames, Managing
   Also Sponsored By:
   Directors Research Discretionary Fund,
   Jet Propulsion Laboratory,
   California Institute of Technology

   [jpllogo.gif] Questions: www@@www-aig.jpl.nasa.gov
