http://rarediseases.info.nih.gov

   Office of Rare Diseases, National Insitutes of Health emblem of
   person's outline rising from a DNA strand

                           Office of Rare Diseases

   Skip Navigation Links
   Link goes to ORD home Follow link to Site Index Link goes to Help and
   more
   Follow link for Rare Diseases Info Link to Research and Clinical Trials
   Info Link to Patient Support Groups
   Link to Patient Travel and Lodging Info Follow for Genetics Info Link
   to Research Resources
   Link to News, Events, Archives Follow to NIH Home

   Welcome to the website of the Office of Rare Diseases (ORD). Here you
   can find information on more than 6000 rare diseases, including current
   research, publications from scientific and medical journals, completed
   research, ongoing studies, and patient support groups.
   (URL: http://rarediseases.info.nih.gov/)

   The Office of Rare Diseases (ORD) is making every effort to ensure that
   the information available on this Web site is accessible to everyone.
   New pages added after June 2001 are currently accessible to readers who
   use special adaptive equipment to access the Web. ORD is continuing in
   its efforts to make existing pages accessible as well.

   Home Follow link to Site Index Help, etc.
   The Home Page of the ORD website. You are here right now. Lists
   everything on the ORD website for quick access to your selection.
   Provides search tips, strategies and how to contact the ORD.

   Info Trials Support
   Provides information on rare diseases and conditions. Provides
   information on research studies including the Rare Diseases Clinical
   Research Database (RDCRD). Links to information from voluntary health
   organizations.

   Travel Genetics Resources
   Provides information on lodging and patient travel to research and
   treatment sites. Includes information on genetic testing, genetic
   counselors and counseling centers. Links to information useful to
   research investigators.

   News, etc.
   NIH Home
   Progress in rare disease research, special reports and calendar of
   events.
   Links to NIH Home page and provides a search engine for all of NIH.
   (http://www.nih.gov)

          |  ORD Home  |   Site Index  |   Help and More  |
   Rare Diseases Information  |   Research and Clinical Trials   |
   Patient Support Groups  |   Patient Travel and Lodging   |
   Genetics Information  |   Research Resources  |
   News, Events, Reports and Archives   |   Help  |
   Search Strategies  |   Contacting Us  |   Disclaimer  |
   Accessibility  | NIH Home  |
