http://www.bxa.doc.gov/FOIA/Default.htm

   Link to Main Content for our visually impaired users

   Go to BXA Home Page What's New on the BXA Web Site Conduct a full text
                         Search of the BXA Web site

                                                        BXA Header Graphic

   You are here: BXA Home > FOIA Home

   Index of Documents

   FOIA Background

   Submitting a FOIA Request

   Submitting a FOIA Appeal

   Location of BXA's Electronic Reading Room

   Legal Authority

                            BXA FOIA Reading Room

   BXA has put the documents contained in its "Publicly Available Records
   Inspection Facility" (Reading Room) on the Internet. Most of the items
   date from 1996 to the present. They are in a searchable PDF format and
       require an Adobe Acrobat 3.0 reader to view. This reader can be
                     downloaded at no cost to the user.

                               FOIA Background

   The Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) was originally enacted in 1966 to
   allow any person the right to request access to federal agency records
      maintained by agencies within the executive branch of the Federal
    Government. Agencies are required to disclose records upon a written
   request except for those records that are protected from disclosure by
     any of nine FOIA exemptions. This right of access is enforceable in
      U.S. courts. Since its enactment the FOIA statue has been amended
                               several times.

       Recent amendments to the Electronic Freedom of Information Act
    Amendments of 1996 (E-FOIA) provide for electronic access to records
    including those found in the BXA FOIA Reading Room. To save both time
   and money, please browse through our Web site for information which is
   currently available in our E-FOIA Reading Room before submitting a FOIA
                                  request.

                          Submitting a FOIA Request

          * A FOIA request must be made in writing and must provide a
        "reasonable description" of the records you are seeking. If your
       request is vague or too broad, we will ask you to be more specific
                which will delay the processing of your request;
          * State that the records are requested under the Freedom of
                                Information Act;
     * Include a daytime telephone number in case we need to contact you;
     * State your willingness to pay the applicable fees or to pay fees up
        to a certain dollar amount, or state that you are willing to pay
       fees, or provide a justification to support a fee waiver under the
                                      FOIA;
         * You may fax or mail -- but not email-- your request Mailing
                                    address:
                          Freedom of Information Officer
                      Room 6881 Bureau of Export Administration
                             U.S. Department of Commerce
                                 Washington, DC 20230
                                  FAX: 202-482-0326
     * Fees 15CFR Part 4--Public Information--Sec. 4.9 fees FOIA requests
                          are assigned fee categories:
                            1. Commercial use requests;
         2. Educational and noncommercial scientific institution requests;
                       3. Representation of the news media;
                              4. All other requesters
     * Fee Limits: Requesters may set a limit on the amount that they are
       willing to pay. If it is anticipated, at any point, that fees will
         exceed the fee limit set by the requester. BXA will contact the
              requester if possible to resolve the matter quickly.

     * Federal agencies are required to respond to FOIA requests within 20
                                  working days.

            If you should have questions concerning your request
                             call 202-482-0500.

                          Submitting a FOIA Appeal

       FOIA requesters may appeal an agency's decision not to provide
    information within 30 days of the date of the denial letter from the
           agency. Appeals should state the following information:
     * the reasons why the requested information should be released under
                                  the Act; and
                       * why the denial may be in error.

   FOIA requesters shall include with the letter of appeal copies of their
   original requests and the responses to the request, clearly marking the
     letters and the outside envelopes, "FOIA Appeal." Appeals should be
                         made to: following address:

     U.S. Department of Commerce
     Assistant General Counsel for Administration, Room 5898-C
     14th Street and Constitution Ave., NW
     Washington, DC 20230

                  Location of BXA's Electronic Reading Room

   This component does not maintain a separate public inspection facility.
    Requesters should first view records located in BXA's Electronic FOIA
     Reading Room. If the records sought cannot be located at this site,
                         please call (202) 482-0500.

                       Publicly Available Information

                       Go to Library Table of Contents

                               Legal Authority

    Title 15 Code of Federal Regulation--Commerce and Foreign Trade, Part
                            4--Public Information

    For more detailed information, see the Department of Justice Text on
       the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and the Privacy Act (PA).

    For additional general type information on how to use the FOIA see; A
   Citizen's Guide on Using the Freedom of Information Act and the Privacy
       Act of 1974 to Request Government Records. This publication is
     available at Federal Depository Libraries, the Government Printing
        Office, or you can access it through the GPO Access Web site.
