http://cio.ost.dot.gov/privacy/index.html

   CIO- Chief Information Officer for the DOT

   CIO- Chief Information Officer for the DOT Corner Image Link to DOT

   Home About Us Contact Us Site Map




   topics

   arrow IT Security
   arrow E-Government
   arrow Capital Planning
   arrow Enterprise Architecture
   arrow Operations
   arrow Strategic Planning
         & Policy
   arrow DOT CIO Council

   search

                               _______________
                                   Search
                               Advanced Search
                               firstgov button


   Policy Statement

         UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION PRIVACY AND DISCLAIMER
                                      NOTICE

      PRIVACY NOTICE

      We collect no personal information about you when you visit our website
      unless you choose to provide this information to us. However, we
      collect and store certain information automatically. Here is how we
      handle information about your visit to our website.

      What We Collect and Store Automatically

      If you do nothing during your visit but browse through the website,
      read pages, or download information, we will gather and store certain
      information about your visit automatically. This information does not
      identify you personally. We automatically collect and store only the
      following information about your visit:
    1. The Internet domain (for example, "xcompany.com" if you use a
       private Internet access account, or "yourschool.edu" if you connect
       from a university's domain) and IP address (an IP address is a
       number that is automatically assigned to your computer whenever you
       are surfing the Web) from which you access our website;
    2. The type of browser and operating system used to access our site;
    3. The date and time you access our site;
    4. The pages you visit; and
    5. If you linked to our website from another website, the address of
       that website.

   We use the information we collect to count the number and type of
   visitors to the different pages on our site, and to help us make our
   site more useful to visitors like you.

   Cookies

   These pages use session cookies or their equivalent to temporarily
   store information about your visit and to track transactions while you
   are online. Session cookies expire automatically after you leave the
   site and the information is discarded and non-retrievable.

   Persistent cookies - sometimes used to track user activity over
   multiple sessions and/or web sites - are not used on this site.

   If You Send Us E-mail

   You may choose to provide us with personal information, as in e-mail
   with a comment or question. We use the information to improve our
   service to you or to respond to your request. Sometimes we forward your
   e-mail to other government employees who may be better able to help
   you. Except for authorized law enforcement investigations, we do not
   share our e-mail with any other outside organizations.

   Links to Other Sites

   Our website has many links to our partners, especially other federal
   agencies. In a few cases we link to private organizations. When you
   link to another site, you are no longer on our site and are subject to
   the privacy policy of the new site.

   DISCLAIMER AND LIABILITY NOTICE

   This website and the information it contains are provided as a public
   service by the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT). This system is
   monitored to ensure proper operation, to verify the functioning of
   applicable security features, and for comparable purposes. Anyone using
   this system expressly consents to such monitoring. Unauthorized
   attempts to modify any information stored on this system, to defeat or
   circumvent security features, or to utilize this system for other than
   its intended purposes are prohibited and may result in criminal
   prosecution.

   Restriction of Liability

   The DOT makes no claims, promises or guarantees about the accuracy,
   completeness, or adequacy of the contents of this website and expressly
   disclaims liability for errors and omissions in the contents of this
   website. No warranty of any kind, implied, expressed or statutory,
   including but not limited to the warranties of non-infringement of
   third party rights, title, merchantability, fitness for a particular
   purpose and freedom from computer virus, is given with respect to the
   contents of this website or its hyperlinks to other Internet resources.
   Reference in this website to any specific commercial products,
   processes, or services, or the use of any trade, firm or corporation
   name is for the information and convenience of the public, and does not
   constitute endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by DOT.

   Ownership

   Information presented on this website is considered public information
   and may be distributed or copied. DOT shall have the unlimited right to
   use for any purpose, free of any change, all information submitted to
   DOT via this site except those submissions made under separate legal
   contract. DOT shall be free to use, for any purpose, any ideas,
   concepts, or techniques contained in information provided to DOT
   through this site.

   Top of Page


   Home | IT Security | E-Government | Capital Planning | Architecture |
                    Operations | Policies | CIO Council
             About Us | CIO Activities | Contact Us | Site Map

                  U.S. DOT Privacy Notice and Disclaimer
