http://www.dpa.ca.gov/general/pretaxparking.shtm


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                      DPA Home
                      Labor Relations
                      Benefits
                      Training and Consultant Services
                      Personnel Policies
                      Job & Salary Information
                      Working Families
                      Excluded Employees
                      Savings Plus Program



                              Related Resources



                            Contracts
                            Bargaining Updates
                            Bargaining Process
                            California State Seal


   Department of Personnel Administration - graphic of negotiations


        __________ search
   ( )  My CA   (*)   This Site
   Link to Negotiation Status Update
   Pre-Tax Parking
   January 1, 2002Many State employees already pay for parking via pre-tax
   payroll deductions. However, for a limited number of State employees,
   this option was not available until this year. The following
   information and enrollment forms are being provided for employees who
   are eligible for this new payroll deduction plan. If you are uncertain
   about your eligibility, or have other questions about pre-tax parking,
   please contact your departments Personnel/Payroll Office. How the new
   parking payroll deduction works
   (If you already have a payroll deduction for parking, this information
   does not apply to you.) Employees who sign up for this plan specify an
   amount to be deducted from their paycheck, pre-tax, subject to the
   limitations outlined below. This money is deposited in a special
   reimbursement account. The employee submits a reimbursement claim with
   parking receipts to receive payments from this account. Claims are
   processed by a third-party administrator.
   Maximum deduction amount Up to $185/month for qualified parking may be
   deducted pre-tax, which means the deducted amount is not subject to
   federal, state, or Social Security taxes. (If your qualified parking
   costs exceed $185/month, you may pay the additional amount using an
   after-tax payroll deduction.) These limits, set by the federal Internal
   Revenue Code (IRC), apply to the 2002 tax year. The IRC defines
   "qualified parking" as follows:
   on or near the employers business premises at a location from which the
       employee commutes to work by carpool, commuter highway vehicle,
       mass transit facilities, transportation provided by any person in
       the business of transporting persons for compensation or hire, or
       by any other means.

   Parking on or near property used by the employee for a residential
   purpose is
   not qualified parking. Eligibility This payroll deduction plan is
   available for any State employee who meets all of the following
   criteria:

     drives a personal vehicle to work;

     pays for parking in a paid facility providing a receipt;

     does not have parking available in a General Services parking lot
   (ie, State-owned or leased lot) or a department-administered State
   parking lot; and

     does not currently participate in any other payroll deduction plan
   for parking. Enrollment and Claims Process DPA 682 - Account Enrollment
   (word | PDF)
   DPA 681 - Account Claim (word | PDF) Here are the steps to set up a
   pre-tax reimbursement account for parking: 1. Complete and submit an
   enrollment form (DPA form 682).
   2. Pay for your qualified parking (defined above).
   3. Get receipt(s) for each paid parking expenditure for the month
   (e.g., monthly receipt or multiple daily receipts for the month).
   4. Complete and submit a reimbursement claim form (DPA form 681),
   including applicable receipt(s). Your signature on the claim form
   attests that the reimbursement is for qualified parking and that you
   meet the eligibility criteria. Once your pre-tax parking deductions are
   established, they continue without interruption until terminated or
   changed by you. At the end of the tax year, the State Controllers
   Office (SCO) will report your taxable income as usual and exclude from
   gross taxable income the amount of your qualified pre-tax parking
   deductions. Sample timeline for new parking deductions January 1, 2002
   -- Employee completes DPA form 682 (enrollment) and submits it to
   his/her personnel/payroll office. (Documents forwarded to SCO by
   January 10 will be processed for January pay period.) January 31 --
   Employee deduction appears on paycheck for January pay period. Employee
   begins saving receipts for February parking. In accordance with federal
   IRC requirements, the payroll deduction must occur prior to the parking
   being paid and the receipt issued. For this purpose, the master payroll
   date is the effective date of the deduction. February 28 -- Employee
   completes DPA form 681 (reimbursement claim) and submits it to ASI (the
   third-party administrator) for parking paid and receipted in the month
   of February. Copies of receipts must be attached to the form. March 10
   -- ASI processes reimbursement claims for February parking and
   transmits the payment data to SCO. March 10-March 31 -- SCO issues
   employees reimbursement check for February parking.

                             Back to Top of Page
    © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
