http://www.lsc.gov/WEBSITEDOCS/BSTJCrpt.pdf

   Building State Justice Communities America's Partner for Equal Justice
   A State Planning Report from the Legal Services Corporation March 2001
   TABLE OF CONTENTS Executive
   Summary................................................................
   .............i I. Introduction
   .......................................................................
   ............. 1 II. Planning In Selected
   States........................................................... 4
   California
   .......................................................................
   ................... 7
   Colorado...............................................................
   ...........................11
   Florida................................................................
   .............................15
   Illinois...............................................................
   ...............................19
   Indiana................................................................
   .............................23
   Maine..................................................................
   .............................28 Maryland
   .......................................................................
   ..................31 Minnesota
   .......................................................................
   .................34
   Missouri...............................................................
   ............................38 New Hampshire
   .......................................................................
   ........41 New
   Jersey.................................................................
   ......................44 Ohio
   .......................................................................
   ..........................48
   Oregon.................................................................
   ............................53 Pennsylvania
   .......................................................................
   ............56 South Carolina
   .......................................................................
   .........60 Utah
   .......................................................................
   ..........................63
   Washington.............................................................
   .........................66 West
   Virginia...............................................................
   ....................71 III. Lessons From Successful State
   Planning.................................73 A. Broad Lessons
   .......................................................................
   .73 B. Models and Initiatives
   ............................................................76 For more
   information, please contact: Robert Gross Senior Program Counsel for
   State Planning (202) 336-8856; grossr@lsc.gov With Production
   Assistance from: Lou Castro Executive Summary Building State Justice
   Communities examines state planning in 18 states. It reports on changes
   in legal services delivery that each state has made since the Legal
   Services Corporation issued its call for state planning six years ago,
   with its first Program Letter on the subject. Many of these changes
   involved retooling of existing systems. All improved access to justice
   for low-income people, strengthened the quality of the legal services
   delivered by programs and forged new and deeper bonds among stakeholder
   partners in each state's civil justice community. Almost none were
   easy; almost none were risk-free. They are presented here as examples
   of how some states responded to LSC's call to recipients and others in
   the civil justice community to expand their vision from "what's best
   for the clients in my service area" to "what's best for clients
   throughout the state." Specifically, Program Letters 98-1 and 98-6 as
   well as the more recent 2000-7 challenged grantees to * Investigate the
   strengths and weaknesses of and resources available to individual
   programs as well as the overall strengths and weaknesses of and
   resources available to the state's legal services "system;" * Assess
   the needs of the communities served by the programs and the overall
   "system;" * Anticipate changes and trends that will most likely affect
   civil legal services programs in coming years; and * Devise a plan of
   action, on a statewide basis, to address the identified needs of low-
   income persons in the present while ensuring that the civil legal needs
   of future generations of low-income persons can be efficiently and
   effectively addressed. Recognizing that each state has individual
   challenges and opportunities, history and culture, this report
   highlights similarities of experience in states that made critical
   advances in developing a vibrant civil justice community. These 18
   states are engaged in a process. They realize that planning is not
   finished with the production of a State Plan. Their task is to develop,
   pursue and continually refine strategies for building and maintaining
   comprehensive, integrated, statewide civil legal justice delivery
   systems. They undertake this responsibility in collaboration with
   others, understanding that LSC recipients do not act alone just as
   client needs are often more complex than a simple legal issue. Their
   successes include: * Obtaining or significantly expanding state funding
   for legal services; * Establishing systems for coordinating advocacy
   and training among programs; * Making the court system more responsive
   and accessible to low-income and pro se litigants; -i- * Reconfiguring
   programs within a state to strengthen coordination, access and
   services; * Establishing structures to more creatively involve the
   private bar in the delivery of civil legal assistance; * Creating and
   executing a statewide technology plan to improve access and enhance
   delivery; * Developing a statewide coordinated intake system; and *
   Expanding the number of stakeholders within a state committed to the
   concept of equal justice. These 18 states are by no means the only ones
   that have made progress. Others could have been included as well. The
   states in this report were selected because, while they represent a
   range of local circumstances, resources and background, each has a
   broad vision for justice and the passion and commitment needed to
   achieve it. They have pursued innovative strategies at the risk of
   failure and acknowledged that their civil legal delivery systems need
   both regular review and adjustment, if not significant change. Building
   State Justice Communities contains some broad lessons learned from
   their experience: * There is no single model for building a state
   justice community. * People within a state must feel the need to and
   some urgency for changing the legal services delivery system. *
   Building and maintaining a state justice community is an ongoing
   process. * A firm grounding in shared values and a shared vision will
   increase the likelihood of success. * Planning initiatives must be
   based upon a structured and principled determination of the needs of
   client communities. * Strong leadership is required for positive
   change. * Planning and implementation require staffing and support. *
   Involving an experienced planning consultant in the initial phases of
   launching a process and developing a plan can be valuable, particularly
   where difficult issues involving institutional relationships are
   present. * Building a state justice community is demanding and involves
   real cost. * If a state is going to successfully create a state justice
   community, someone has to be responsible for it. * The creation of
   state justice communities will be successful only if there is
   encouragement and legitimization of constructive dissatisfaction. *
   State planning will fail unless there is acceptance of and
   encouragement for the risks inherent in experimentation and innovation.
   * The successful state planning initiative requires open communication.
   * A state planning initiative takes time, a commitment to forego issues
   of turf and personal interests and a supportive reward system. *
   Significant investments in state justice communities will be far
   outweighed by the results--increased access and expanded services for
   low-income people and the intangible benefit of realizing the ideal of
   equal justice for all. -ii- Organizations are like elephants -- slow to
   change James A. Belasco I. Introduction Over the last ten years, many
   civil legal services leaders, stakeholders, program directors and
   managers throughout the United States began to wonder whether the civil
   legal services delivery structure that had been in place for a quarter
   of a century was positioned to meets its many future challenges.
   Funding was declining or stagnant, many people in leadership positions
   were weary after years of fighting for survival, demand for the
   delivery of quality legal services was increasing, staff were
   questioning their work environments and their personal goals,
   technology was fundamentally changing the practice of law, and society
   was growing increasingly inhospitable to the needs of poor people. The
   legal services delivery system, created in another time and place,
   didn't seem to be working in the ways that we--stakeholders, staff,
   clients--expected it to work. And although we were proud of our
   collective past, many of us had serious doubts as to whether the
   delivery system that we had created, and that had performed well for us
   and for our clients for the past twenty years, was the most effective
   and efficient delivery system for the difficult and challenging times
   ahead. Programs and program directors responded to these concerns in
   different ways. Some pursued strategic planning initiatives. Others
   engaged in aggressive resource development, pursued alternative methods
   of providing legal services to clients, reconfigured their
   organizations, or, in some instances, took their skills and talents
   elsewhere. And, unfortunately, too many of us did nothing. In 1995 and
   again in 1998, the Legal Services Corporation recognized that legal
   services programs were going to have to change the method and manner in
   which they conducted their business if they were going to remain viable
   and responsive to the needs of low income persons. Moreover, LSC wanted
   to encourage all programs to pursue some semblance of planning. LSC,
   therefore, required its grantees to begin to examine, on a statewide
   level, how all grantees in a particular state would serve in the
   present, and plan to serve in the future, the civil legal needs of
   low-income persons. In 1995, LSC's state planning initiative was
   primarily focused on how grantees would work together to address
   funding shortfalls and to respond to the 1995-96 restrictions. In 1998,
   LSC Program Letters 98-1 and 98-6 broadened the scope of the state
   planning initiative, asking grantees to determine how they could expand
   services and ensure that all clients received similar levels of
   assistance regardless of their location in the state or other factors
   such as language, disability or political popularity. In essence, these
   two Program Letters asked grantees to expand their horizons from
   "what's best for the clients in my service area" to "what's best for
   clients throughout the state." Programs were requested to develop plans
   to coordinate and integrate their work in seven important
   areas--enhancing client access and efficiency in delivering high
   quality legal assistance; using technology to expand access and enhance
   -1- services; promoting client self-help and preventive legal education
   and advice; coordinating legal work and training; collaborating with
   the private bar; expanding resources to support legal services; and
   designing a system configuration that enhances client services, reduces
   barriers and operates efficiently and effectively. LSC's grantees were
   asked to: * Investigate the strengths and weaknesses of and resources
   available to individual programs as well as the overall strengths and
   weaknesses of and resources available to the state's legal services
   "system;" * Assess the needs of the communities served by the programs
   and the overall "system;" * Anticipate changes and trends that will
   most likely affect civil legal services programs in coming years; and *
   Devise a plan of action, on a statewide basis, to address the
   identified needs of low income persons in the present while ensuring
   that the civil legal needs of future generations of low-income persons
   can be efficiently and effectively addressed. A handful of states
   answered LSC's call to action. They consolidated programs to increase
   efficiency and deploy resources more effectively; they took advantage
   of technology advances to improve intake systems; they expanded the
   network of stakeholders to increase the support and guidance available
   to service providers. Their successes inspired LSC and other national
   organizations to a deeper involvement in state planning and higher
   expectations for all states. In January 2000, the LSC Board of
   Directors approved LSC's 5-year Strategic Direction Plan. This document
   commits LSC to dramatically expand the impact of legal services
   programs throughout the nation by improving access to legal services
   among eligible persons while enhancing the quality of the services
   delivered. The Plan highlights LSC's State Planning Initiative as the
   primary strategy for achieving these goals. In December 2000, LSC
   issued its third program letter on state planning. Program Letter
   2000-7 renewed LSC's challenge to its grantees to actively engage in
   assessing their delivery practices and policies and the allocation of
   their legal services dollars. Program Letter 2000-7 makes clear that
   the state planning initiative will continue to be LSC's highest
   priority. What does LSC mean when it talks about state planning? It has
   often been pointed out that the term state planning does not capture
   the full scope of the activities that are included in the process as it
   is playing out across the country. Developing a plan is only the
   beginning of an ongoing effort that includes implementation of the
   plan's initiatives, continuous outreach to new partners, regular
   assessment of progress toward goals, and modifications of the plan as
   circumstances change. Because these elements are all included in the
   concept of strategic planning, as it is currently understood in
   management practice, one advantage of the term state planning is that
   it emphasizes that what is involved is strategic planning for state
   equal justice communities. -2- Developing structures and processes for
   building and maintaining comprehensive, integrated, statewide civil
   legal assistance delivery systems may define the process more
   accurately but it is certainly a mouthful. Building state justice
   communities captures the concepts of partnership and shared
   responsibility that are involved, but may under-emphasize the ultimate
   goal to which the building of the community is directed--the creation
   and maintenance of a system capable of providing equal justice for
   low-income people. In the end, actions do speak louder than words. It
   doesn't really matter if we talk about state planning or state justice
   communities or world- class delivery systems or the creation of
   comprehensive, integrated and coordinated legal services delivery
   systems. It just matters that we do it. In this Report, however, the
   term state planning should be understood in its broadest sense, as
   inclusive of all these concepts and various structures, processes, and
   individual initiatives described in the following sections. One final
   thought. Although state planning is LSC's highest priority and we have
   put considerable resources into it over the last three years, LSC did
   not embark upon this journey alone. As we proceeded with state planning
   activities, our national partners also introduced projects targeted to
   the same goals--the creation in every state of a "state justice
   community" collaborating on the creation and maintenance of a civil
   legal assistance system fully responsive to the needs of low-income
   people. Among these initiatives we would like to specifically recognize
   are the joint ABA-NLADA SPAN (State Planning Assistance Network)
   project, and the joint NLADA-CLASP Project for the Future of Equal
   Justice. On the state level, IOLTA--based funders including but not
   limited to IOLTA programs in Ohio, Florida, Pennsylvania, Texas,
   Virginia, New York, New Jersey and Michigan--have also been a key force
   in state planning. This Report describes progress that the legal
   services community has made in the six years since LSC issued its first
   Program Letter on the subject. It identifies some lessons gleaned from
   these achievements, describes the growth in selected states toward
   building a justice community capable of responding to the full range of
   civil legal needs of low-income people (Part II), and identifies some
   lessons that have emerged from successful or promising planning
   processes, as well as the particular structures and strategies that
   these states have employed (Part III). We acknowledge the hard work of
   building state justice communities and salute all those who have rolled
   up their sleeves to take part in this exciting effort. We believe this
   report demonstrates there is a big payoff for clients--which, after
   all, is what it is all about. -3- II. Planning In Selected States Over
   the past six years, many states have developed a range of initiatives
   aimed at expanding access and improving services to clients. Their
   achievements, like the planning processes they have followed, have
   varied according to local circumstances, challenges, and opportunities.
   As expected, one size truly does not fit all. However, there have been
   important similarities in terms of successes. These include: *
   Obtaining or significantly expanding state funding for legal services;
   * Establishing systems for coordinating advocacy and training among
   programs; * Making the court system more responsive and accessible to
   low-income and pro se litigants; * Reconfiguring programs within a
   state to strengthen coordination, access, and services; * Establishing
   structures to more creatively involve the private bar in the delivery
   of civil legal assistance; * Creating and executing a statewide
   technology plan to improve access and enhance delivery; * Developing a
   statewide coordinated intake system; and * Expanding the number of
   stakeholders within a state committed to the concept of equal justice.
   This section describes the progress that has taken place in 18 selected
   states toward building state justice communities capable of responding
   to the civil legal needs of their low-income residents. These states
   are at different stages in the planning process. In a few states, a
   fully developed state justice community is in place and its
   accomplishments are paying off in terms of expanded and improved
   services to clients. Some states have developed key justice community
   institutions whose significant improvements in the structure of civil
   legal assistance in their state position them to make real changes for
   clients. Some states are still in an early phase: they have developed a
   plan that shows real promise and are just beginning to build the
   structures and launch the initiatives to implement it. The states
   described here are by no means the only ones that have made progress.
   Others could have been included as well. Some states, such as
   Connecticut, Vermont, and Hawaii, made major changes in their delivery
   systems in 1995 and 1996 and are working diligently to realize the full
   potential of those systems. Others, such as New York, Texas, and North
   Carolina, are engaged in promising efforts to overcome particular
   challenges associated with their size and diversity. Still
   others--Kentucky, Wisconsin, Louisiana-- while relatively slow to
   embrace the concept of state planning have, within the past year, made
   significant progress in addressing issues of access and quality in
   their states. -4- What we hope to demonstrate in describing what has
   been achieved in these selected states is both their differences and
   their similarities, the range of different processes, structures, and
   strategies that have led to their successes, and the basic commonalties
   that underlie them in terms of vision, inclusiveness, leadership and
   commitment. Each of the states described in this section provides
   insights and lessons that can be of benefit to others. -5- California
   Del Norte Modoc Siskiyou Humboldt Shasta Trinity Lassen 2001 Tehama
   Plumas Butte Glenn Sierra Mendocino Yuba Nevada LakeColusa Sutter
   Placer El Dorado Yolo Alpine Sonoma Napa Amador Sacramento Solano
   Calaveras Marin Tuolumne Mono Contra Cos Sta an Joaquin San Fr A anci
   lam sco eda Stanislaus Mariposa San Mateo Madera Santa Clara Merced
   Santa Cruz Fresno San Benito Inyo Monterey Tulare Kings San Luis Obispo
   Kern Bay Area Legal Aid San Bernardino Santa Barbara California Indian
   Legal Services Ventura Legal Services of Northern California Los
   Angeles California Rural Legal Assistance Central California Legal
   Services Orange Riverside Greater Bakersfield Legal Assistance Legal
   Aid Foundation of Los Angeles Legal Aid Society of Orange County San
   Diego Imperial San Fernando Valley Neighborhood Legal Services Inland
   Counties Legal Services Legal Aid Society of San Diego Del Norte Modoc
   Siskiyou Humboldt Shasta Trinity 1998 Lassen Tehama Plumas Butte Glenn
   Sierra Mendocino Yuba Nevada Colusa Lake Sutter Placer El Dorado Yolo
   Alpine Sonoma Napa Amador Sacramento Solano Calaveras Marin Mono
   Tuolumne Contra CS o a s n Jo ta aquin San FranAcilam scoeda Stanislaus
   Mariposa San Mateo LAS of Alameda County Madera Santa Clara Merced
   California Indian LS Santa Cruz LS of Northern Calif Fresno Inyo
   California Rural San Benito Monterey Contra Costa Tulare Kings Redwood
   LA Central California Greater Bakersfield San Luis Obispo Kern Legal
   Aid Foundtn of LA North Bay San Bernardino Santa Barbara Central Coast
   Ventura Orange County Inland Counties Los Angeles LAS of San Diego
   Orange Riverside SF Neighborhood LA LAS of San Mateo Channel Counties
   San Diego Imperial Community LS LAF Of Long Beach San Fernando Valley
   LS -6- California In 1998, California in recognition of the state's
   size, diversity and complexity asked LSC to allow it to first develop
   regional plans for the creation of "regional" justice communities. LSC
   approved this proposal and in October received regional plans from five
   regions. The current configuration and planning successes in each of
   these regions are described below: The Northern Region. Since April
   1999, as the result of program mergers, Legal Services of Northern
   California has been the sole LSC-funded provider for the entire region,
   with nine offices covering 23 counties. This region has made
   significant progress in developing a comprehensive, integrated delivery
   system to provide high-quality services to clients throughout northern
   California. In addition to instituting a program- wide Regional Counsel
   advocate support/case review system, which emphasizes collaboration and
   co-counseling on common issues throughout the whole region, LSNC is
   coordinating and advancing a region-wide advocacy agenda in welfare to
   work and housing and economic development. This region has also
   developed additional resources for region-wide initiatives, such as a
   $120,000 three-year grant from the Rockefeller Foundation to increase
   the capacities of three community-based organizations. The Bay Area.
   The Bay Area was one of three geographical areas in the United States
   involuntarily reconfigured by LSC. On January 1, 2000 Bay Area Legal
   Aid ("Bay Legal") became the only LSC-funded program for all seven
   counties in the San Francisco area. The new program, headquartered in
   Oakland, was the result of a merger between San Francisco Neighborhood
   Legal Assistance (SFNLAF), Community Legal Services in San Jose, and
   Legal Foundation of Contra Costa. In FY 2000, Bay Legal was the
   recipient of a $175,235 LSC Technology Initiative Grant. This grant
   will enable Bay Legal advocates and clients throughout the region to
   use networked computer terminals to easily access forms and
   information. In its first year, Bay Legal also successfully conducted a
   region-wide "Campaign for Justice" fundraising effort which brought in
   significant funds to all of its offices. The Central California Region.
   Five LSC-funded programs previously served the central California
   region. Today, the region is served by three LSC-funded providers--
   California Rural Legal Assistance (CRLA), Central California Legal
   Services (CCLS) and Greater Bakersfield Legal Assistance (GBLA). These
   three programs created the California Rural Justice Consortium, a
   planning entity dedicated to the vision of a seamless justice system in
   the region. The Consortium is working on issues throughout the region,
   including the legal problems of migrant sheepherders and health and
   environmental issues affecting rural clients. In order to address the
   access barriers that face rural and isolated communities and enhance
   communication between and among the three programs, the programs have
   developed highly sophisticated video-conferencing capability. The three
   programs have also agreed to allow and encourage staff members to move
   freely among the three programs in order to respond to clients needs
   most effectively. -7- The Los Angeles Basin. As a result of the merger
   between the Legal Aid Foundation of Long Beach and the Legal Aid
   Foundation of Los Angeles, there are now three programs serving this
   region. The programs have hired a Joint Advocacy Coordinator who staffs
   the Joint Advocacy Project to respond to major issues that cut across
   program lines and can be addressed most effectively by advocates from
   multiple programs. One of the first projects jointly pursued by the LA
   Basin programs will address the diverse languages spoken by Asian
   client population. Under a grant from the Open Society Institute, the
   programs contracted with the Asian Pacific American Legal Center of
   Southern California to provide centralized intake for Asian clients who
   do not speak English. If the clients require extended service or
   representation, their cases are then matched with staff of any of the
   three programs depending on the specific language capabilities of each
   program. Through this project the LA Basin has found a way to serve
   Asian clients who do not speak English. The programs are also poised to
   make a major investment in technology to expand the delivery of legal
   services. The I-CAN project, funded initially by an LSC technology
   initiative grant, was developed by the Legal Aid Society of Orange
   County (LASOC) to help "pro per" clients fill out Judicial Council
   forms in family law matters. Future plans includes replicating I-CAN
   throughout the region and locating kiosks at libraries that can be used
   by clients for on-line filings of certain legal matters. The Southern
   Region . The two programs in this region, the Legal Aid Society of San
   Diego and Inland Counties Legal Services, were relatively late in
   region-wide planning. Recently, these two programs have committed to an
   agenda of specific collaborative projects, including joint technology
   consultations, joint efforts by the two Boards of Directors in areas of
   mutual interest, joint economic development projects, and assistance in
   developing intake systems. Both programs are recipients of
   "partnership" grants to run projects to help Spanish-speaking "pro per"
   clients in their respective county courthouses. Both are also active
   participants in other statewide initiatives. For example, Inland and
   San Diego have both partnered with CRLA to respond to migrant clients
   needs in the Coachella and Imperial valleys. However, significant
   integration and planning work remains to be done in this area of the
   state. State Activities. LSC's 1998 call for state planning coincided
   with an active period within California's justice community. The Access
   to Justice Commission was created in 1996 as a coordinating body to
   seek support for legal services programs and develop strategies to
   address the severe lack of access to justice that had been identified
   earlier by a State Bar-sponsored blue ribbon study group. The
   membership of the Commission consisted of representatives from the
   bench and bar, including many long-term supporters of legal services,
   academics, and business, labor and religious leaders, as well as
   representatives of the provider community. The first priority of the
   Commission was resource development and the Commission led a sustained
   effort in the California legislature to obtain state funds to support
   the provision of civil legal services to low- income persons. In 1999,
   California appropriated, for the first time, $10 million for legal
   services. The same amount was appropriated in FY 2000. A 50% increase
   to $15 million is expected for 2001. -8- The Commission's second
   priority was the improvement of access to the courts for "pro per"
   litigants. The Commission and planners dedicated 10% of the state
   appropriation for civil legal services to fund innovative projects that
   partner legal services providers and the courts to assist low-income
   self-represented litigants. With support from LSC's Technology
   Initiative Grants, LSC-funded programs are leaders and active
   participants in California's plan to utilize technology to expand
   access and improve legal services delivery. Other promising technology
   initiatives include the CalJustice Technology Project of the Public
   Interest Clearinghouse, which focuses on increasing client access to
   the judicial system through the development of an artificial
   intelligence-based tool to help advocates quickly spot issues in and
   strategize about cases. The state has also recently adopted statewide
   priorities for connectivity and communication, developed minimum
   technology standards and created mechanisms to share best practices.
   Other statewide non-technology initiatives include: * Inter-program and
   inter-region collaborative projects to develop new substantive
   expertise and new programs to respond to changes in policy and law
   impacting upon low-income clients; * A system of advocacy training and
   litigation support through a network of support centers in the areas of
   health, youth, housing, and economic development; * The development of
   standards and assessment tools tovaluate the support centers. -9-
   Colorado Sedgwick Logan Jackson Larimer Moffat Phillips Weld Routt
   Morgan Grand Boulder Washington Yuma Rio Blanco Adams Gilpin Garfield
   Clear Creek Denver Summit Arapahoe Eagle Jefferson Douglas Kit Carson
   Lake Elbert Pitkin Park Lincoln Mesa Delta Teller El Paso Cheyenne
   Chaffee Gunnison Fremont Kiowa Montrose Crowley Ouray Pueblo Saguache
   Custer San Miguel Otero Bent Prowers San Juan Dolores Hinsdale Mineral
   Huerfano Rio Grande Alamosa Las Animas Montezuma La Plata Costilla Baca
   Archuleta Conejos 2001 Colorado Legal Services Sedgwick Logan Jackson
   Moffat Larimer Phillips Weld Routt Morgan Grand Boulder Washington Yuma
   Rio Blanco Adams Gilpin Garfield Clear Creek Denver Summit Arapahoe
   Eagle Jefferson Douglas Kit Carson Lake Elbert Pitkin Park Lincoln Mesa
   Delta Teller El Paso Cheyenne Chaffee Gunnison Fremont Kiowa Montrose
   Crowley Ouray Saguache Pueblo Custer San Miguel Otero Bent Prowers San
   Juan Dolores Hinsdale Mineral Huerfano Rio Grande Alamosa Las Animas
   Montezuma La Plata Costilla Baca Archuleta Conejos Legal Aid Society of
   Metropolitan Denver Colorado Rural Legal Services 1998 Pikes
   Peak/Arkansas River Legal Aid -10- Colorado State planning in Colorado
   began in 1995 with the formation of the Statewide Legal Services
   Planning Group. Represented in the Group were LSC-funded programs, the
   organized bar, the judiciary, both law schools in the state, eligible
   clients, the Colorado Lawyers Trust Account Foundation (the state=s
   IOLTA program), the Legal Aid Foundation (the statewide fundraising arm
   for Colorado=s federally-funded legal services programs) providers of
   specialized legal services and other groups interested in the provision
   of legal assistance to low-income people. Early planning efforts
   focused on development of additional resources, expansion of pro bono
   assistance and support from the private bar and ensuring effective
   delivery of services by the federally funded programs. Initial efforts
   addressed a variety of internal issues including training and support,
   increased use of technology, more efficient and uniform intake and the
   provision of legal advice and brief service, and meeting the needs of
   particularly vulnerable populations including migrants, Native
   Americans, non-English speaking persons, immigrants and disabled and
   institutionalized individuals. Progress was made on a number of issues
   important to the legal services community, but despite signs of chronic
   weakness in two programs, the 4-program LSC structure was left intact.
   During LSC's 1996 competition, the service area of one of these
   programs was awarded to an adjacent program. The other received limited
   funding, and ultimately was provided a very short grant. Together with
   LSC's 1998 Program Letters, this decision provided the impetus for more
   serious discussion of program configuration which resulted in the
   formation of a single statewide program, Colorado Legal Services,
   effective October 1, 1999. The formation of a single statewide program
   was adopted to breathe life into a single program that will provide
   meaningful access to high quality legal services, in the pursuit of
   justice for as many low-income people throughout Colorado as possible.@
   This vision became a touchstone for decisions as to program governance,
   delivery issues, including office staffing, support, training,
   technology, and increased access to high quality legal advice, brief
   service and more extensive legal representation. During the
   consolidation process, the Legal Services Corporation technical
   assistance grants enabled the program to utilize the services of a
   skilled consultant and facilitator to move the process to conclusion,
   to send program staff to visit and observe other programs with well
   respected and technologically sophisticated centralized intake systems,
   to bring experts to the program to help design a transition to
   statewide administrative and personnel systems, and helped fund the
   statewide staff meeting which launched and celebrated the new statewide
   program. The goals of the single statewide program included
   establishing uniform standards for high quality legal representation,
   increased administrative efficiency and the provision of more
   effective, accurate and helpful brief service and advice, increased
   -11- training, technical assistance and support for all staff, but
   particularly for casehandlers in small remote rural offices, and
   significantly increased access for more low-income Coloradans in need
   of service. Many of these goals have been met and others continue as
   work in progress. Initiatives that CLS has undertaken to improve and
   expand services to clients on a statewide basis included: * The
   establishment of statewide priorities that pay particular attention to
   the needs of rural, hard-to-reach areas; * Increased training and
   advocacy support throughout the state; * Detailed plans to initiate a
   Client Access Plan which will feature a highlycentralized
   telephone-based intake system; * Vastly upgraded technological
   equipment, Internet access and computer capability; * A new case
   information system that will provide improved information about
   numerous aspects of the provision of legal assistance to the low-income
   community throughout the state; * Casehandlers standards to be used as
   benchmarks by staff in the representation of all program clients.
   Successful efforts have also been made to expand resources necessary
   for the delivery of civil legal assistance to the indigent. Other
   efforts focus on how to increase pro bono representation of both
   eligible clients and potential clients in need of service provided by
   the federally funded statewide program, and to locate providers for
   services that may not be available from the recipient of LSC funds.
   Increases in resource for civil legal assistance have included: *
   Significantly expanded giving by law firms and lawyers to the Legal Aid
   Foundation of Colorado since 1995; * After many years of effort, State
   General Assembly appropriated funds in 1999 ($250,000) to serve the
   civil needs of victims of domestic and family violence and $400,000 in
   fiscal year 2000. The coordinated and focused efforts of the State
   Planning Group have also brought major positive changes to pro bono
   activities throughout the state including: * The Colorado Supreme Court
   revised Rule 6.1 of the Colorado Rules of Professional Conduct,
   effective January 1, 2000, to provide an aspirational goal that every
   lawyer provide not less than 50 hours per year of pro bono services
   each year; * The Colorado Supreme Court amended the Code of Judicial
   Conduct to more clearly specify that judges may engage in activities to
   encourage lawyers to perform pro bono service; * The Colorado Bar
   Association=s Board of Governors in May, 2000 approved a set of
   guidelines to encourage pro bono service by government and public
   attorneys; -12- * A thorough review and revision of its Private
   Attorney Involvement activities by CLS to further encourage pro bono
   participation throughout the State; * Efforts by CLS to maximize local
   pro bono participation while further coordinating statewide technical
   assistance and legal support provided to attorneys who participate in
   pro bono programs as well as increased recognition of volunteer lawyers
   at both the local and state level. The relationship between LSC-funded
   providers and their partners in the state justice community in Colorado
   has always been positive. The consolidation of the federally-funded
   programs into a single statewide entity has provided the opportunity
   for increased communication and collaboration throughout the state both
   within legal services and between legal services providers and their
   allies in the private bar, client and local communities and with other
   key constituencies. It is expected that continued planning and
   concerted effort will result in higher quality service provided more
   uniformly throughout the state, and that clients in increasing numbers
   will be the beneficiaries of a more thoughtful and better coordinated
   state justice community in Colorado. -13- Florida Holmes Jackson
   Okaloosa Escambia Santa Rosa Walton Washington Gadsden Nassau Leon
   Madison Hamilton Calhoun Jefferson Baker Duval Bay Liberty Columbia
   Wakulla Suwannee Lafayette Taylor Union Gulf Bradford Clay Saint Johns
   Franklin Gilchrist Alachua Dixie Putnam Flagler Levy Marion Volusia
   Citrus Lake Seminole Sumter Hernando Orange Pasco Brevard Polk Osceola
   Pinella H s illsborough Indian River Hardee Manatee Highland
   Oskeechobee Saint Lucie Sarasota De Soto Martin Glades Charlotte Three
   Rivers LS Palm Beach Jacksonville LA LS of North Florida Lee Hendry
   Central Florida LS LA S of Broward County Collier Broward Florida Rural
   LS Withlacoochee LS LS of Greater Miami Northwest Florida LS Dade Bay
   LS Monroe Greater Orlando LS Gulfcoast LS -14- Florida Florida planning
   efforts began in 1991 with The Florida Bar and Florida Bar Foundation's
   Joint Commission on the Delivery of Legal Assistance study and report.
   Its recommendation to increase pro bono engagement was addressed in
   1993 when the Florida Supreme Court mandated pro bono reporting for
   Florida Bar members. Recommendations contained in the 1991 plan also
   resulted in the institution of tri-annual peer reviews for all Florida
   Bar Foundation (Foundation) funded programs, including the state's
   twelve LSC organizations. Recommendations that programs improve
   technology capacities were addressed in large part by a revolving loan
   fund, established by the Foundation, that enabled LSC programs and
   other IOTA recipients to purchase needed computer and related
   technology. In 1996, the state's "companion system" was created to
   serve clients whom LSC-funded organizations could not represent. More
   recently, and in response to LSC's state planning letters, planning
   moved to a new level when the directors of Florida's largest legal
   services programs held a retreat to consider how to improve civil legal
   assistance in the state. A Technical Assistance Grant from LSC, matched
   by a grant from The Florida Bar Foundation, enabled the directors to
   retain the services of a consultant who has continued to guide the
   planning process. At the retreat, the 21 directors examined changes in
   client needs and the practice of law over the past ten years. They
   asked themselves what accomplishments they and their staff were most
   proud of, and how they could expand these achievements. They considered
   ways in which the 33 civil legal services programs in the state
   (including the 12 LSC entities) should expand partnerships to ensure
   that low-income Floridians had access to a full array of the highest
   quality legal services possible. They realized that significant change
   in the service delivery system was needed because of the increasing
   complexity of the practice of law, the number of legal services
   providers in the state, the restrictions on LSC recipients and, most
   important, changes in laws and programs affecting clients. It became
   clear that restructuring Florida's delivery system could increase the
   work that made staff most proud and brought clients the best services.
   The directors developed the concept of "statewide, client-centered,
   energetic, affirmative advocacy" as a key value against which to
   measure all proposals for change. Its elements were identified as: *
   Shared responsibility for the statewide delivery system * Collaborative
   attitudes on the part of advocates and programs * Strategic thinking
   about the most effective way to achieve results for clients * Advocacy
   skills needed to provide effective, high-quality services * Client
   centered provision of services * Ongoing self-assessment A survey was
   sent to all staff at the 33 nonprofit civil legal services asking them
   to describe how they could become (or maintain themselves as)
   energetic, affirmative -15- advocates, as well as what support they
   might require and how collaborative efforts in the state could meet
   those needs. There were 273 responses from 25 programs. The results
   were reported to the equal justice community and posted on the Florida
   Legal Services website, www.floridalegal.org. The initial planning
   effort sparked by the 21 program directors grew to become a broadly
   inclusive structure. Participants represent key stakeholders including
   funders, bar leaders, judges, advocates and clients, among others. Its
   principal components are: Oversight Committee. Consisting of
   representatives of the Board of Governors of the Florida State Bar and
   The Florida Bar Foundation, the statewide Standing Committee on Pro
   Bono Legal Services, the Project Directors Association, Florida Legal
   Services, the judiciary, and clients, this group guides the planning
   process, seeks input from stakeholders, establishes a timeline and
   gives final approval of the state plan. Action Committees. Charged with
   exploring problems and opportunities in the areas identified in the
   project director retreat and the advocacy survey, these committees
   focus on Resource Development, Vision, Technology,
   Legislative/Administrative Advocacy, Client Access, Collaboration, and
   Training and Technical Assistance. Each committee developed measurable
   goals with estimated dates for completion. Close to 80 individuals
   serve on the committees. Coordinating Committee. Composed of the Chairs
   of the Action Committees, this body considered the recommendations of
   the Action Committees and integrated them into a draft state plan.
   Project Directors' Association. Consisting of the Executive Directors
   of the state's 33 nonprofit civil legal services programs, this group
   has responsibility for ensuring implementation at the program level.
   After circulation for comment to all stakeholders, including county
   governments (the third largest source of legal services funding in the
   state), local pro bono committees, local bar associations and Area
   Agencies on Aging, the Oversight Committee released the draft plan for
   public comment in late December 2000. A final version was adopted at
   the end of February 2001. The 2001 State Plan divides the state into
   six regions, and highlights a regional approach in its collaboration
   and configuration strategies. Each region houses LSC and other
   nonprofit civil legal services providers bound together by a commitment
   to collaborate. Programs in each region will sign an "enforceable
   agreement" enunciating the specific activities each organization will
   undertake. In January 2001, LSC asked the Florida planners to more
   carefully explore whether the current configuration of LSC and non-LSC
   funded programs is one that will best advance their goals. LSC
   requested that the planners seriously consider the advantages of having
   one LSC-funded program anchor each of the six regions identified in the
   plan. -16- Programs have already moved to carry out some of the Plan's
   recommendations. All 33 programs receiving Foundation funds have
   jointly hired a statewide resource director. The Foundation, along with
   The Florida State Bar and several law firms, have provided funds to
   hire a statewide pro bono development director. Planners are seeking
   funds to improve the statewide website and expand internet access to
   community education materials beyond the current community education
   site for immigrant advocacy organizations. Other initiatives include a
   statewide Child Support Task Force and a statewide Emma Lazarus
   Project. Regionwide efforts are also underway. In one region, three LSC
   programs have established a regional intake system, funded by an LSC
   Technology Initiative Grant, with a second planned for another region,
   to be developed in 2001. A region-wide community economic development
   initiative housed at an LSC program provides expertise and other
   resources to all IOTA recipients a third region. A regional Special
   Educational Advisory Project (involving four programs) to do outreach
   and advocacy for children, and a regional Team Child Project on joint
   advocacy between legal services programs and public defender offices
   for youth entering the juvenile justice system have also been
   established. The Florida Bar Foundation, which gives substantial
   funding to the state's 33 nonprofit civil legal services organizations,
   has pledged to annually evaluate each of its recipients on their state
   planning work as well as their contribution to the regional effort.
   Regional efforts will be a critical component of the Foundation's
   tri-annual on-site peer review of each program. Thus, programs will be
   measured not only on their individual contributions to regional and
   state planning, but also on the quality of their region's
   accomplishments. The Foundation anticipates that this approach to
   evaluations will help maintain the productive pace of the past years'
   planning and emphasize the importance of joint endeavors. Furthermore,
   planning leaders have indicated that configuration is a priority for
   planners in 2001, and have developed committees and strategies to
   address this critical issue. -17- Illinois Jo Daviess
   StephensonWinnebag Booone McHenry Lake 2001 Carroll Ogle De Kalb Kane
   Du PageCook Whiteside Lee Kendall Rock Island Will Henry Bureau La
   Salle Grundy Mercer Putnam Kankakee Stark Marshall Knox HendersonWarren
   Livingston Woodford Iroquois Peoria Ford Tazewell McLean McDonough
   Hancock Fulton Mason De Witt Schuyler Logan Champaign Vermilion Menard
   Piatt Adams Brown Cass Macon Douglas Sangamon Morgan Edgar Pike Scott
   Christian Moultrie Coles Shelby Greene Clark Cumberland Macoupin
   Montgomery CalhounJersey Effingham Jasper Crawford Fayette Bond Madison
   Clay RichlandLawrence Marion Clinton Saint Clair Wayne Edwards Wabash
   Washington Monroe Jefferson Perry Hamilton White Randolph Franklin
   Jackson Williamson Saline Gallatin Hardin Union Johnson Land of Lincoln
   Legal Assistance Foundation Pope Prairie State Legal Services Alexander
   Pulaski Massac Legal Assistance Foundation of Metropolitan Chicago West
   Central Illinois Legal Assistance Jo Daviess StephensonWinnebag B o
   oone McHenry Lake 1998 Carroll Ogle Cook County De Kalb Kane Du Page
   Served by two programs Whiteside Cook Lee Rock Island Kendall Will
   Henry Bureau La Salle Grundy Mercer Putnam Kankakee Stark Marshall Knox
   HendersonWarren Livingston Woodford Iroquois Peoria Ford Tazewell
   McLean Hancock McDonough Fulton Mason De Witt Schuyler Logan Champaign
   Vermilion Menard Piatt Adams Brown Cass Macon Sangamon Douglas Morgan
   Edgar Pike Scott Christian Moultrie Coles Shelby Greene Clark
   Cumberland Macoupin Montgomery CalhounJersey Effingham Jasper Crawford
   Fayette Bond Madison Clay RichlandLawrence Marion Clinton Saint Clair
   Wayne Edwards Wabash Washington Monroe Jefferson Perry Hamilton White
   Randolph Franklin Jackson Saline Williamson Gallatin Land of Lincoln
   Legal Assistance Foundation Prairie State Legal Services Hardin Union
   Johnson Cook County Legal Assistance Foundation Pope West Central
   Illinois Legal Assistance Alexander Pulaski Massac Legal Assistance
   Foundation of Metropolitan Chicago -18- Illinois The LSC-funded
   programs in Illinois have a long history of working together on joint
   projects, state support and other matters. In 1996, in response to
   LSC's first program letter, the programs requested that the Illinois
   State Bar Association and the Chicago Bar Association join them in the
   planning process. In April 1997, under the authority of these bar
   associations, the Illinois Equal Justice Project was established. The
   mission of the Illinois Equal Justice Project included: protecting the
   integrity and accessibility of the legal system for all Illinois
   residents; educating individuals, families and groups about the
   self-help process within the judicial system; and promoting cost-
   effective legal services for low income individuals and families. The
   Equal Justice Project brought together a very diverse group of
   individuals including representatives of the low-income client
   community, social service agencies, government agencies, civil legal
   services organizations, religious communities, the judiciary, lawyers
   and cultural organizations to address the need for comprehensive cost-
   effective legal services in the State of Illinois. The project was
   governed by a Steering Committee. In addition, three working groups
   were created: Non-Adjudicatory Problem Solving; User Friendly Pro Se
   Adjudication; and Legal Service Delivery System. The Project adopted
   six guiding principles: * Equal justice is a basic right, which is
   fundamental to our democracy. Thus, the integrity of our country, our
   state and our justice system depends on protecting and enforcing the
   rights of all people on an equal basis; * Illinois residents must be
   educated to protect their legal rights and accept their legal
   responsibilities. They must also have information about self-help
   processes and available remedies; * The justice system must work with
   social services, government agencies and community leaders to promote
   holistic, multi-disciplinary approaches to preventing and resolving
   legal difficulties; * Since demand for services continues to increase,
   legal aid programs must be supported in avoiding duplication,
   maximizing coordination and promoting effective use of existing and
   emerging technologies; * Legitimate political discourse requires
   constructive alternatives. Attacks on the current system, often based
   on misleading anecdotes, have failed to enlighten participants or
   improve services to the public; and * The organizations and
   institutions, which comprise our justice system, are largely local.
   Equal justice is an integral part of the general public welfare and
   funding equal justice is a fundamental obligation of state and county
   government. Each working group met several times to develop
   recommendations for changes to the legal services delivery system. The
   recommendations were adopted by the Chicago and Illinois State Bar
   Associations, and, along with an appendix of existing and proposed
   implementation measures, submitted to the Governor, the Illinois
   General Assembly, the Illinois Supreme Court, local governments, state
   agencies, legal services -19- programs, bar associations and individual
   lawyers. The focus was on creating a true system of equal justice in
   Illinois. (The report also recognized work that had already begun among
   all legal services programs with the establishment of a Statewide Legal
   Services Delivery and Technology Working Group, which was meeting to
   share information on the use of technology.) As part of the goals
   developed by the Equal Justice Project, the Chicago and Illinois State
   Bar Associations agreed to support the introduction of the Illinois
   Equal Justice Act in the Illinois General Assembly. The bill failed in
   the 1997-98 session but passed the following year. Although stripped of
   any funding mechanism, the bill authorized the establishment the
   Illinois Equal Justice Foundation to receive and distribute any money
   appropriated by the legislature. Finally, in the 1999-2000 session,
   $500,000 was appropriated. While less than the $1,000,000 sought by the
   governor, it is a start. In June 1999, LSC commented upon the Illinois
   State Plan and implementation to date. In its feedback letter, LSC
   noted that it was "impressed with the steps you have taken and will
   continue to take under this plan to develop an integrated and
   comprehensive delivery system that is designed to meet the present as
   well as the future needs of low-income person within your state."
   However, LSC also asked the planners to reopen their consideration of
   the configuration of the LSC-funded programs believing that "a thorough
   review of this plan leads to the almost inescapable conclusion that
   while reconfiguration may not be a front-burner issue within this
   state, there is merit to seriously exploring reconfiguration of the
   five LSC-funded programs into three." LSC also suggested that the
   planners develop ways to involve more clients and community
   representatives in the planning process and develop plans to expand
   their funding base. Reconsideration of the configuration of the LSC
   programs has led to decisions to consolidate the five organizations. In
   2001, final reconfiguration of the LSC-funded delivery system will be
   completed, leaving three programs--Prairie State Legal Services, Land
   of Lincoln Legal Assistance Foundation, and the Legal Assistance
   Foundation of Metropolitan Chicago. The programs have also followed LSC
   and the Equal Justice Project recommendations to consider more
   streamlined and cooperative ways of operating. While Illinois initially
   had five federally funded legal services programs, planners identified
   another twenty-two programs that were providing legal services to the
   economically disadvantaged. Many of these programs were small and most
   operated within Cook County. In November 1999, the first- ever meeting
   of all of these programs was held. The Legal Services Corporation
   provided funding for two facilitators and lodging and meal costs were
   paid for by the Lawyers Trust Fund of Illinois. The programs met for
   two days to plan areas of need and cooperation. Working groups were
   established to coordinate training statewide, to focus on the
   establishment of a statewide website and to continue coordination and
   sharing in technology matters. -20- The programs continue to explore
   avenues for improving services to clients. With funding from the
   Lawyers Trust Fund of Illinois, the Technology Working Group and
   representatives from CARPLS (the Chicago-based hotline and referral
   services), Legal Assistance Foundation of Metropolitan Chicago, Prairie
   State Legal Services and Land of Lincoln Legal Assistance Foundation
   have formed a "Best Practices" group. These individuals have visited
   one another's programs as well as four additional model
   hotline/telephone intake systems around the country. As they have
   observed better, more efficient and more innovative ways of doing
   business, new procedures have been adopted. In cooperation with IIT
   Kent College of Law, legal services programs are also involved in
   establishing a Technology Center for Law and the Public Interest. This
   will be a single database that will have three portals for three
   separate interest groups including a portal for clients that would
   provide them access to client community legal education materials and
   self-help legal materials. (This would expand upon materials that are
   currently available from Southern Illinois Self-Help Center and the
   Illinois legal services website.) A second portal would provide
   information and video streaming training for pro bono attorneys. The
   final portal would provide access for legal services staff to training
   materials, discussion groups, legal research and other matters. The
   twelve partners in this collaboration have recently signed agreements
   specifying the duties of each partner. The site will be located at
   IIT-Kent College of Law. The Illinois Equal Justice Foundation has
   recently made its first grants from money appropriated by the Illinois
   General Assembly. Because of the limited money available, the first
   grants were restricted to funding for civil legal services and
   hotlines. Later this year, the Foundation will initiate a study to
   evaluate the most effective way in which pro bono can be encouraged and
   supported. At the present time, Illinois has a Pro Bono Center whose
   function is to work with the organized bar and legal services programs
   in encouraging participation in existing pro bono programs as well as
   to help develop new pro bono programs in Illinois. The focus of the
   study will be to determine what changes need to be made in the existing
   structure to allow the Center to effectively meet its mission or,
   alternatively, to recommend a new structure. This study will be funded
   by an LSC technical assistance grant and will be coordinated with an
   ABA peer study. -21- Indiana Lagrange Steuben Elkhart Saint Joseph
   LaPorte Lake Porter Noble De Kalb Marshall Starke Kosciusko 2001
   Whitley Allen Fulton Jasper Pulaski Newton Wabas H h untington Miami
   Wells Adams White Cass Benton Carroll Grant Howard Blackford Jay
   Tippecanoe Warren Clinton Tipton Delaware Fountain Madison Randolph
   Montgomery Boone Hamilton Henry Vermillion Wayne Hancock Parke
   Hendricks Marion Putnam Fayette Rush Union Shelby Morgan Johnson Vigo
   Clay Franklin Owen Decatur Brown Bartholomew Monroe Ripley Dearborn
   Sullivan Greene Jennings Ohio Jackson Lawrence Switzerland Jefferson
   Daviess Knox Martin Scott Washington Orange Clark Pike Dubois Gibson
   Crawford Floyd Harrison Warrick Perry Posey Vanderburgh Spencer Indiana
   Legal Services Lagrange Steub
