http://www.tfhrc.gov/structur/structre.htm

   Skip Repetitive Links. Turner-Fairbank Highway Research Center.
   Menu.

   menu bar.

     Structures Research

     When traveling over bridges and highway ramps, we all take for
     granted that these structures will hold. That confidence - exhibited
     nationwide - comes from the application of the reliable research
     done by our Structures research.
     ............................

     Bridge Asset Management means what it sounds like. We need to manage
     our structural assets well. We need to find better ways to
     accurately assess our huge inventory of bridges and know what kind
     of condition they are in. And we can. For example, using
     non-destructive evaluation (NDE) techniques and equipment, we can
     now use laser radar to assess a bridge’s structural condition. It’s
     more accurate, less destructive, and faster. Inspectors no longer
     have to chip away at a crack in order to find out how deep it goes.
     A major step forward!
     ............................

     High-Performance Materials are being used in many States now to
     build stronger, more durable bridges and roads. The high-performance
     team at TFHRC investigates the use of steel, concrete, and
     composites to this end.
     ............................

     Engineering Applications encompasses a variety of topics. For
     example how do you protect a bridge from corrosion? Or how do you
     reduce the damage caused by natural hazards? We’re doing our best to
     protect our bridges from that stuff we all love to see in the
     movies, but truly do not want to experience—earthquakes, gale-force
     winds, torrential rains and flooding, you name it!
     ............................




   More Information.

   View the Publications.
   Check out the Structures research related  publications & articles.
   NEW PUBLICATIONS:
   New Item! New Editions of FHWA Primary References on Stream Stability,
   Scour, and Countermeasures Distributed Get the Adobe Acrobat Reader.
   from July R&T Transporter. (PDF file)

   States Achieve Safety & Savings with Rapid Deployment for Bridge
   Painting from July Focus.

   Full Scale Curved Girder Bridge Test Continues Get the Adobe Acrobat
   Reader.
   from June R&T Transporter. (PDF file)

   Related Research.
   BRIDGES:
   Aerodynamics Laboratory

   Automated Geotechnical Information and Design System

   Bridge Management Information Systems (BMIS) Laboratory

   Hydraulics and Hydrology

   Non-Destructive Evaluation (NDE) Validation Center

   Paint & Corrosion Laboratory

   CONCRETE:
   Concrete Laboratory

   Fiber Reinforced Concrete Subject Indices

   High Performance Concrete Website

   Plain and Structural Concrete Subject Indices

   STRUCTURES:
   Geotechnical Laboratory and Geotechnical Research Team

   Structures Laboratory

   Other Links.
   FHWA's Infrastructure Core Business Unit
   ....................



      What's New | About TFHRC | Our Products | Our Research | Support
                                  Services
    Library | Periodicals | Other Resources | Site Map | Search | Privacy
                              Notice | Feedback
                        TFHRC Home | FHWA | U.S. DOT

                 http://www.tfhrc.gov/structur/structre.htm
