http://www.pay.gov/WhatisPaygov.htm

 Pay gov    Pay gov

         What is Pay gov
         How does it work Benefits Getting Started

         What is Pay.gov?

         Pay.gov is a portal and transaction engine created by the U.S.
         Department of the Treasury’s Financial Management Service(FMS). Pay.gov
         offers a package of electronic financial services to assist agencies.
         Pay.gov consists of four services:
          1. Collections—Enabling end-users to authorize collections over the
             Internet
          2. Forms submittals and bill presentment—Accepting agency forms
             submitted by end-users over the Internet and presenting agency
             bills to end-users over the Internet
          3. Authentication—Establishing the identity of Internet end-users
          4. Agency reporting—Providing necessary information back to agencies
             about transactions

         How do these four services work?

         Collections:

         For collections, Pay.gov will accept electronic authorizations for
         Automated Clearing House (ACH) debit entries. The system will
         complement and eventually will incorporate existing services for credit
         and check card transactions initiated over the Internet.
         Form submittals and bill presentment:

         FMS will convert an agency’s forms into electronic documents that may
         be submitted by the public to Pay.gov. The forms will consist of Web
         pages hosted on Pay.gov, machine-readable Extensible Markup Language
         (XML) documents for business-to-government (B2G) transactions, and even
         applications for Internet-enabled mobile telephones and portable
         digital assistants (PDAs), as requested by agencies. FMS will also
         offer the service of displaying on Pay.gov the bills that an end-user
         may owe to an agency. In addition, FMS will forward bill presentment
         information to leading bill presentment providers and integrate with
         end-user systems, when requested by an agency.
         Authentication:

         FMS will offer several authentication services. One will rely upon
         personal information provided at the time of transaction. Another will
         be a system that uses passwords issued online or by mail. These systems
         can be invoked by agency Web sites as well as by Pay.gov. In addition,
         FMS will work with agencies to find ways to authenticate end-users by
         use of agency records. FMS will also offer more sophisticated
         authentication services involving digital certificates and biometrics
         on an agency-by-agency basis.
         Agency reporting:

         FMS will provide agencies with a unified reporting mechanism by which
         agencies will be able to obtain detailed information about forms
         accepted by Pay.gov, plus information about collections that are
         processed through Pay.gov. Eventually, FMS will fold in reporting
         streams from other Treasury financial systems. FMS will integrate these
         reports with agency systems to the extent desired by the agency.
         Back to top
         Download Executive Summary
