http://www.efsec.wa.gov/paralegal.pdf

   EMPLYOMENT OPPORTUNITY Washington State Energy Facility Site Evaluation
   Council Paralegal 2  College Career Master's Graduate The Department of
   Community, Trade, and Economic Development (CTED) is recruiting to fill
   a permanent, full time, Paralegal 2, position #0929, with the Energy
   Facility Energy Council Site (EFSEC) unit. The position has been
   designated as in-training, and will be fill at the College Career
   Master's Graduate - Business & Finance level, range 42, ($2526 - $3215
   per month). After six months of successful completion of the
   in-training period, the incumbent will automatically advance to the
   Paralegal 2 level, range 46 ($2775 - $3549). For information concerning
   the duties and responsibilities of the position, please contact Allen
   Fiksdal at (360) 956-2152. For information concerning the minimum
   qualifications, please contact Anna Varadian at (360) 725-2654.
   Desirable qualifications: Law degree; or * Experience or knowledge of
   legal research and analysis of case fact situations for legal issues
   identification and development of legal strategy; or * Experience in
   /or knowledge of adjudicative proceedings, settlement negotiations;
   management of documents, exhibits, and courtroom aids for trials or
   adjudicative proceedings. College Career Master's Graduate - Master's
   level Minimum Qualifications: A Master's degree involving major study
   in business or public administration or allied field such as:
   accounting, marketing, commerce, finance, business administration,
   statistics, economics, etc. College or university students, including
   state employees, who are enrolled and scheduled to complete their
   Master's degree requirements within 12 months may apply. The degree
   must be achieved, however, prior to appointment. In order to be
   considered for this position, your name must be on the College Career
   Master's Graduate (Business & Finance) register. Interested candidates
   may apply to get their name on the register by completing the following
   documents: state application http://hr.dop.wa.gov/forms/stateapp.doc
   test questionnaire: http://hr.dop.wa.gov/forms/crpexamform.doc
   Interested applicants may send their application and test questionnaire
   to the following address no later than February 28, 2002: Anna
   Varadian, Human Resource Consultant Department of Community, Trade and
   Economic Development PO Box 42525 Olympia, WA 98504-2525 Email address:
   annav@cted.wa.gov Additional information on the College Recruitment
   Program may be obtained by contacting Department of Personnel's
   website: http://hr.dop.wa.gov/forms/crpexamform.doc Applicants needing
   assistance or alternative formats in the process may call (360)
   725-2650 or TDD at (360) 753-7427.
