http://www.itds.treas.gov/itdsovr.html

   Link Directly to Content

                    Site Map Home FOIA Mail Legal Notices





   ITDS Pilot

   Harmonized Tariff Schedule

   Importing/Exporting Resources

   ITDS In The News

   Contacts


   spacer    blue Line
          ITDS Logo ITDS Background

                                  blue Line

   The International Trade Data System (ITDS) is a federal government
   information technology initiative (Initiative IT06) of the National
   Performance Review. The goal of the initiative is to implement an
   integrated government-wide system for the electronic collection, use,
   and dissemination of international trade data. The ITDS was chartered
   in September of 1995 under then Vice President Gore's memorandum,
   "Implementing the International Trade Data System" (September 15,
   1995), and was reaffirmed in the Government Information Technology
   Services Board report, "Access America: Reengineering Through
   Information Technology" (February 1997).

   Initially, a special project office for the ITDS system was established
   under the Secretary of the Treasury. On November 17, 1999, the ITDS
   office and its functions and support were transferred to the Customs
   Service where it is now part of the Office of Information and
   Technology. A multi-agency board of directors, currently chaired by a
   representative of the U.S. International Trade Commission, guides the
   ITDS project.

   The ITDS system will facilitate information processing for businesses
   and the over 100 federal agencies involved in international trade.
   While Customs current automated processing system, the Automated
   Commercial System (ACS), is designed to accommodate the needs of some
   federal agencies, ITDS will be designed to accommodate all agencies
   that need international trade data, including those agencies not
   serviced by the current ACS system.

   When importing or exporting, trade participants (traders) are required
   to submit information to appropriate trade agencies to enable agencies
   to determine, for example, the legal admissibility of imported
   merchandise, the duty applicable to imported merchandise, the safe or
   unsafe condition of a truck intended to be used on U.S. highways, or
   whether food products are safe for consumption. Currently, traders are
   required to provide this information to each individual trade agency
   using a variety of different automated systems, a multitude of paper
   forms, or a combination of systems and forms. The United Nations
   Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) has estimated that
   submission of redundant information and preparation of documentation is
   equal to 4 - 6% of the cost of the merchandise.

   With ITDS, traders will submit standard electronic data for imports or
   exports only once to ITDS. Then, ITDS will distribute this standard
   data to the pertinent federal agencies that have an interest in the
   transaction for their selectivity and risk assessment. The ITDS will
   provide each agency only information that is relevant to its mission.
   Thus, the ITDS system will serve as a government data collection and
   distribution facility, a "single window" system through which
   information necessary to trade transactions can flow efficiently from
   traders to agencies. Requirements that force traders to submit
   redundant information to multiple federal agencies will be eliminated.
   The ITDS system will support the processes of multiple agencies,
   including data collection, processing, use, dissemination, and storage.
   In addition to assisting federal government agencies in the processing
   of import and export transactions, ITDS will provide the framework to
   collect information on behalf of those agencies and will enable Customs
   to more effectively assist them in enforcing laws and regulations
   relating to international trade.

   Development of ITDS will be coordinated with the development of the
   Customs Automated Commercial Environment (ACE), the broader Customs
   Modernization effort, and the current and future requirements of other
   agencies' processing systems.
