http://www.fossil.energy.gov/techline/tl_gasstorage_sel1.shtml

   DOE Fossil Energy Web Site

   -
    Ribbon - Support for U.S. Response to Terrorism
                                                   -
                                                    SUPPORT
                                                    FOR FREEDOM'S
                                                    RESPONSE

   SEARCH THIS SITE
   -

   - Fossil Energy Web Site - - -
   - -   Electric Power R&D | Oil/Gas R&D | Fuels R&D | Oil Reserves |
   Electricity Regulation | Gas Regulation
   -
   - - - - -


                  [spacer.gif]
   -              HOME PAGE
   [arrow_on.gif] NEWS
   -              BUSINESS
   -              BUDGET
   -              R&D PROJECTS
   -              PUBLICATIONS
   -              EVENTS/REMARKS
   -              INTERNATIONAL
   -              FOR STUDENTS

   Register for E-Mail Alerts

   - ABOUT US
   - HOW TO
     CONTACT US
   - PRIVACY &
     SECURITY
   - INDEX

   -
    News and Progress Reports from the Office of Fossil Energy
                                                              - -
   -
   -

                        Printer-Friendly Version   Printer-Friendly Version
    October 3, 2001
    -
    Energy Department Looking to Expand Approaches for Storing Natural Gas
    Four New Projects to Examine Hydrates, Salt Caverns, Innovative Rock
    Storage Methods

    Morgantown, WV - The amount of natural gas needed to fuel new electric
    power plants projected to be built in the next 20 years is likely to
    outstrip existing pipeline capacity making natural gas storage an
    increasingly important element of the Nation's energy infrastructure.

    To prepare for the day when natural gas may need to be stored in a
    variety of different settings for example, as hydrates in aboveground
    tanks, or in chilled form in refrigerated rock caverns, or in salt
    formations miles away from the Nation's coastline the U.S. Department
    of Energy has selected four projects to study these innovative gas
    storage methods.

    Valued at more than $2.5 million, these cost-shared projects are
    expected to expand the geographic locations around the country where
    natural gas could be stored, making the U.S. gas delivery system more
    responsive to consumer needs.

    Today, more than 400 underground rock or salt formations or depleted
    reservoirs serve as storage reservoirs for natural gas. These gas
    storage sites are heavily clustered in and near major eastern and
    midcontinent markets. Many regions, however, such as the South Atlantic
    and Pacific Northwest, do not have the right geology for conventional
    gas storage in underground formations. Even where suitable geology
    exists, some existing conventional storage does not meet the
    requirements of end users.

    To help industry expand the Nation's gas storage system, the Energy
    Department's Strategic Center for Natural Gas part of the National
    Energy Technology Laboratory is preparing to award research contracts
    to:
      * New York State Museum, Albany, NY, which proposes to use
        sophisticated geologic reservoir techniques to develop a systematic
        "blueprint" for removing and disposing of salt water (brine)
        produced when caverns are developed in areas remote to ocean
        disposal. Brine disposal is the primary barrier to using salt
        caverns for natural gas storage sites in many regions of the U.S.
        Emphasis is on identifying potential reservoirs that can accept
        large volumes of brineand maintain acceptable environmental
        levelsnear salt deposits that have the potential for gas storage
        cavern development in the Northeast.
        Project cost: $629,645; DOE share: $484,427; participant share:
        $145,218;
        Project duration: two years
        Project contact: Dr. Langhorne Smith, (518) 473-6262
        Public Abstract [submitted by proposer]
      * CAES Development Co., LLC, Houston, TX, which plans to conduct a
        proof-of-concept study to establish the potential for full-scale
        deployment and commercialization of a previously developed DOE
        technology, known as Refrigerated-Mined Rock Cavern Technology
        (RMRCT). The RMRCT concept involves mining deep openings in
        crystalline rocks to store chilled and compressed natural gas in
        areas without conventional gas storage options. Chilling the gas
        means more gas can be stored in the space available, and mining
        costs can be reduced. The project will use a compressed air energy
        storage facility being built in Norton, Ohio, to test how hard
        rocks react to pressure changes. Because conditions at the air
        storage facility would be similar to those at an RMRCT facility,
        the proposed work is directly applicable to understanding the
        physical nature of the technology.
        Project cost: $560,018; DOE share: $354,918; participant share:
        $205,100
        Project duration: 2 years
        Project contact: Michael J. McGill, (281) 378-9032
        Public Abstract [submitted by proposer]
      * Mississippi State University, Mississippi State, MS, which will
        demonstrate a gas-hydrate storage process for safe, aboveground
        natural gas storage that operates at moderate pressures and
        temperatures. Hydrates are ice-like formations with a molecular
        structure that holds large volumes of gas. The proposed work will
        design, assemble and demonstrate, at proof-of-concept scale, a
        gas-hydrate laboratory process that pressurizes a surfactant and
        water solution to grow gas-laden, self-packing hydrates on metal.
        Previously supported DOE research shows a test cell could be packed
        with gas hydrates containing about 86 percent of their maximum
        theoretical storage capacity in less than three hours. This project
        will scale up that work using a 20-gallon cylindrical tank,
        aluminum plates and a surfactant-water solution to grow the
        hydrates.
        Project cost: $1.21 million; DOE share: $834,600; participant
        share: $379,091
        Project duration: 4 years
        Project contact: Rudy E. Rogers, (662) 325-5106
        Public Abstract [submitted by proposer]
      * Clemson University, Clemson, SC, which will assess the costs of
        creating gas storage capacity within underground carbonate rocks by
        using hydraulic fracturing and acid dissolution. The project
        focuses on developing a case study of a limestone formation near
        major pipelines and gas markets by establishing preliminary
        specifications for the technology, modeling the limestone
        dissolution process and storage field performance, and preparing an
        economic analysis. If successful, the project could be applied to
        the Northeast, Midwest, Western states and several other regions in
        the country where carbonate formations are widespread.
        Project cost: $1.36 million; DOE share: $647,194; participant
        share: $718,581
        Project duration: 3 years
        Project contact: Michael Strickland, (864) 656-6444
        Public Abstract [submitted by proposer]

                              - End of Techline -

    Technical contact: Gary P. Sames, DOE National Energy Technology
    Laboratory, 412/386-5067, e-mail sames@netl.doe.gov
                                                                           -
                                                                           -
                                                                            -

                                                       Back to Top of Page
   -
   -
     Read More About...
   -
      -  DOE's Gas Storage
             R&D Program
    -
   -
   -
     Quick Search
   -
    _______________ Search Techlines
   -
     Other Search Options
   -
      -  By Techline Topic
      -  By Year
      -  By This Year Only
    -
   -
   -
     More DOE News
   -
      -  DOE-wide News
      -  Main DOE Site
    -
                      -
                       Connect to Main DOE Web Site
                                                   -
   -

   This site is maintained by the Office of Fossil Energy, U.S. Department
   of Energy, Washington, DC, 20585
   General e-mail: fewebmaster@hq.doe.gov | Technical questions about web
   site: fewebsupport@hq.doe.gov
   For disabled users: If you have difficulty accessing this page, please
   call (202) 586-6503.
