http://materials.pnl.gov/news.htm

                         |Security and Privacy Statement|

                       Pacific Northwest National Laboratory


   Awards



   Awards & Recognition


   PNNL Research Wins Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and
   Engineers

      rotating2new.gif (19923 bytes)     rotating2new.gif (19923 bytes)
   rotating2new.gif (19923 bytes)     rotating2new.gif (19923 bytes)

   [bullet1.gif] Dr. Mari Lou Balmer, of the EMSL Interfacial and
   Processing Science directorate and the PNNL Material Resources
   organization is a recipient of a 1998 Presidential Early Career Award
   for Scientists and Engineers. This award followed her selection for a
   1998 DOE Energy Research Young Scientist Award. Her research has
   focused on two important environmental areas: 1) the study of new
   catalytic processes that can be used to reduce air pollutants emitted
   in automobile exhaust and 2) the study of novel materials that can be
   used to selectively isolate radioactive materials (specifically cesium
   and strontium) from large volumes of extremely hazardous waste stored
   at DOE sites around the United States. The DOE and Presidential Awards
   are in recognition of Dr. Balmer's seminal contributions to advancing
   scientific knowledge in these two important areas. The awards ceremony
   wasa held in Washington, D.C., on February 10.

R&D 100 Awards

   [bullet1.gif] Glycine-Nitrate - 1992
   A novel, fast, energy efficient process which produces homogeneous and
   phase pure powders by means of the combustion of aqueous solutions
   containing metal nitrate precursors (oxidizers) and organic complexants
   typified by glycine (fuel). The combustion process is initiated by
   heating to 200° where autoignition occurs producing fine oxide powders
   in a few minutes. The process has been refined based upon the
   high-energy combustion principles used in the development of
   propellants and pyrotechnics.

   [bullet1.gif] Self-Assembled Monolayers on Mesoporous Supports (SAMMS)
   - 1998
   SAMMS  is a new class of materials that can remove metals and
   radionuclides from aqueous and organic liquids and gaseous streams.
   SAMMS integrates mesoporous ceramics technology, first created by Mobil
   Oil Corporation, with an innnovative method for attaching
   "monolayers"--single layers of densely packed molecules--to the pore
   suraces throughout the tiny grains of ceramic material.  The molecules
   are custom designed to seek out mercury, lead, chromium and other
   metals.  Available in powder or bead forms, SAMMS has potential
   applications in soil and water cleanup at sites where mercury
   contamination is prevalent, as well as industrial waste water treatment
   and metal recovery.  Jun Liu, Glex Fryxell, Li-Qiong Wang, Meiling
   Gong, and former staff member Xiangdong Feng and Mobil researchers.

   [bullet1.gif] Liquid Multilayer/Polymer Multilayer Processes for Vacuum
   Deposition of Polymer Films - 1996
   These processes enable vacuum deposition of smooth, continuous polymer
   layers on flexible surfaces. The layers can be extremely thin.
   Commercialization of LML / PML will result in easier manufacturing and
   higher quality for products such as lightweight and rechargeable
   lithium polymer batteries used in cell phones, laptop computers and
   other electronics.  Developers are John Affinito, Mark E. Gross, and
   Terje Skotheim.


                                [divider.gif]

FLC Awards

   [bullet1.gif] Vacuuum Process for Manufacturing Lithium Polymer
                 Batteries - 1996
                 Developers are John Affinito, Mark Gross, and Laura Silva


                                [divider.gif]




      Home Feedback Site Map Search

   Send mail to wendy@pnl.gov with questions or comments about this web site.
   Copyright © 1998 Materials Sciences
   Last modified: February 06, 2001
