http://international.fhwa.dot.gov/tmpl.cfm?title=about


   about
   separator
   programs
   separator
   programs
   separator
   publications
   separator
   meetings
   separator
   international web sites
   separator
   U.S. web sites
   separator
   search
   separator
   what s new
   separator


   DOT logo about
   about

   spacer

   Advancing U.S. & Global Transportation

   Vision

   The Federal Highway Administration's Office of International Programs
   works to improve the technological and institutional base of highway
   transportation system performance and program delivery in the United
   States and abroad.

   Our programs:

   [bullet-b.gif] enable domestic partners to gain easier access to
   technology, information, and markets beyond U.S. borders.
   [bullet-b.gif] facilitate international partners' access to information
   and contacts in the U.S. public and private sectors, and provide better
   access to U.S. technology and practices for developing countries and
   countries in transition.

   Partners

   Our customers and partners include:

   [bullet-b.gif] the public and private-sector U.S. highway
   transportation community, including State and local departments of
   transportation, transportation industry associations and their
   memberships, and academic institutions;
   [bullet-b.gif] U.S. Congress, and other agencies and departments of the
   Executive Branch of the U.S. government;
   [bullet-b.gif] international public and private-sector highway
   transportation organizations;
   [bullet-b.gif] international technical, financing, and development
   agencies.

   Mission

   The Office of International Programs coordinates FHWA's international
   activities. As part of the Office of Policy, it implements programs and
   recommends policies consistent with U.S. government domestic and
   foreign policy objectives.

   We serve our partners by:
   [bullet-b.gif] being the leading organization for identifying and
   capitalizing on international opportunities of benefit to the FHWA and
   the U.S. highway transportation community;
   [bullet-b.gif] undertaking programs that will meet the highest priority
   international needs of the FHWA in the areas of policy recommendation
   and implementation, planning, environment, design, construction,
   operations, intelligent transportation systems, maintenance, safety,
   and economic competitiveness;
   [bullet-b.gif] helping developing countries and countries in transition
   improve their highway transportation systems, institutions, and program
   delivery.

   Legislative Authority

   Section 506 of Title 23 U.S.C. gives the Federal Highway Administration
   the authority to:

   "...engage in activities to inform the domestic highway community of
   technological innovations in foreign countries that could significantly
   improve highway transport in the United States, to promote U.S. highway
   transportation expertise, goods, and services in foreign countries to
   increase transfers of U.S. highway transportation technology to foreign
   countries..."

   Coordinating U.S. International Road Activities

   The Office of International Programs organizes the FHWA's official
   participation and promotes U.S. interests in selected international
   highway-related organizations, conferences and trade shows. FHWA also
   cooperates on international activities with its U.S. partners,
   including the American Association of State Highway Transportation
   Officials and the National Cooperative Highway Research Program.

   The Office of International Programs represents FHWA and its partners
   interests on North American transportation coordination issues. It
   promotes the United States highway transportation community's
   objectives through participation in international organizations and
   their operating committees, including:
   [bullet-b.gif] The Pan American Institute of Highways
   [bullet-b.gif] The World Road Association (PIARC)
   [bullet-b.gif] The Organization for Economic Cooperation and
                  Development
   [bullet-b.gif] The International Road Federation
   [bullet-b.gif] The Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation forum.

   spacer
   Contact Link
