http://www-supernova.lbl.gov/public/papers/press196.html

                               [teal-rule.gif]

Discovery of Most Distant Supernovas -- Indicators of the Fate of the
Universe

   [small-logo.gif]

January 16, 1996

   Lynn Yarris, LCYarris@LBL.gov

                               [teal-rule.gif]

   With their discovery of the most distant supernovas (exploding stars)
   ever observed, an international scientific team led by researchers with
   the Ernest Orlando Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory may be on the
   verge of learning the ultimate fate of our universe. The work is being
   presented today at the American Astronomical Society meeting in San
   Antonio, TX.

   In all, 18 supernovas were discovered by the brilliant light of their
   self-destruction: a supernova explosion can be brighter than the entire
   galaxy of billions of stars in which it is born. Eleven of them,
   including several of the most distant known stars, were found at the
   end of November within one 48 hour period. This record number of
   discoveries at record distances is dramatic proof of the technique
   developed at the Berkeley Lab to make deep space supernova discoveries
   possible, and eventually even routine.

   The supernovas were found in galaxies ranging from four to seven
   billion light years away. (A light year is the distance light can
   travel in a single year -- approximately 6 trillion miles.) This means
   that the furthest of these explosions took place billions of years
   before our own solar system was formed, halfway back to the beginning
   of the universe. Only now is the light reaching Earth.

   The discoveries were made as part of the "Supernova Cosmology Project"
   which is headed by Saul Perlmutter, an astrophysicist in the Berkeley
   Lab's Physics Division. The goal of the project is to measure the
   universe's "deceleration" -- the rate at which the known continual
   expansion of the universe is slowing down. At stake is an understanding
   of the way the universe will end: having begun expanding with the Big
   Bang, will it continue to expand forever, becoming ever more cold and
   empty, or will it slow to a halt, turn around, and eventually contract
   to a fiery dense finale -- a Big Crunch.

   "Distant supernovas provide natural milemarkers useful in determining
   these trends in the cosmic expansion," says Perlmutter. The redshift of
   the distant supernovas -- a shift in the colors of their spectra's
   features -- tells how much the universe has expanded during the
   billions of years that the light has travelled from the supernova to
   our telescopes here on Earth. If this total amount of expansion is more
   than expected from the current expansion rate -- called the "Hubble
   constant" -- then the universe must have been expanding faster in the
   past and be slowing down. And if it is slowing enough, it will
   eventually come to a halt and start to contract.

   Conversely, the project could discover that the expansion is actually
   accelerating. This scenario has recently been proposed by a number of
   scientists, as a solution to discrepancies between the ages of the
   oldest stars and the recent measurements of the Hubble constant.

   Today's presentation at the AAS meeting, based on their first seven
   supernova discoveries, already provides intriguing hints of
   deceleration. Perlmutter and his colleagues on the Supernova Cosmology
   Project are now tracking the brightness of the recently discovered
   supernovas. Once these observations have been completed, the first
   determination of the deceleration of the universe will follow shortly.
   As the project continues to discover supernovas over the next few
   years, the accuracy of the measurement will continue to improve.

   The measurement technique is based on the fact that most of the distant
   supernovas are classified as "Type Ia," the brightest type of
   supernova. "Type Ia supernovas can serve as a measurement of distance
   because they can be calibrated as a standard candle with a known
   brightness," says Perlmutter. "By measuring the light reaching us from
   a distant Type Ia supernova and comparing this to the known brightness
   of similar supernovas in nearby galaxies, we can calculate the
   supernova's distance from earth."

   The technique used to discover the 11 recent supernovas of 1995 is the
   same that was used by the Supernova Cosmology Project team to discover
   the seven supernovas of 1994 and 1993. An ultrasensitive electronic
   camera attached to a telescope is used to photograph thousands of
   deep-space galaxies at the time of a new moon. A second set of images
   of those same galaxies is taken at the same telescope just before the
   next new moon. Using some of the most powerful desktop computers, the
   two sets of images are compared and light from the older image is
   subtracted from new image light to reveal the appearance of supernovas.

   "A Type Ia supernova can shine almost as brightly as an entire galaxy,
   but only for about a month before it becomes too faint for even the
   largest telescopes to observe," says Gerson Goldhaber, a Berkeley Lab
   and University of California, Berkeley professor and one of the key
   members of the project. "For the purpose of measuring distances, it is
   important that we are discovering Type Ia supernovas just before or at
   their brightest moments."

   The experiment has only recently become possible, since it depends on
   the advances in light-detectors, computers, and the Internet, which
   ties together the most important ingredients: astronomers using the
   newest and largest telescopes around the world. All of the recent
   supernovas were sighted on the Cerro Tololo Inter-American Observatory
   4-meter (158-inch) telescope in Chile, the largest in the southern
   hemisphere. Brightness measurements of the supernovas were collected by
   Di Harmor, Daryl Willmark, and Dave Silva at the recently commissioned
   WIYN telescope on Kitt Peak, AZ, by Heidi Newberg at the recently
   commissioned ARC telescope, at Apache Point, NM, by Richard McMahon,
   Mike Irwin, Ariel Goobar, and Dave Carter at the 4-meter and 2.5-meter
   telescopes on the Canary Islands (off Africa), and by Warrick Couch and
   Richard Ellis at the Anglo-Australian 4-meter telescope in Australia.
   It was the world's largest telescope, the Keck 10-meter (400-inch)
   Telescope in Hawaii, that provided the observing power to identify the
   supernova spectra -- observations made with University of California,
   Berkeley astronomers Alex Filippenko, Aaron Barth, and Berkeley Lab's
   Isobel Hook. The Keck Ten Meter Telescope was designed at the Berkeley
   Lab specifically for the observation of faint distant objects such as
   these supernovas.

   An unusual aspect of this project is that high-school students around
   the country can participate over the Internet in the search for
   supernovas, sharing the data with the researchers as it is collected at
   the telescopes. The students use simplified analysis software developed
   by the educational arm of the Berkeley Lab team, called the "Hands-On
   Universe" program. In principle, the students could find the supernovas
   before the scientists do. So far, schools in Chicago and Massachusetts
   are beginning to work with these data, in the pilot stages of this
   novel coordination of education and forefront research.

   The Central Bureau for Astronomical Telegrams sent an International
   Astronomical Union telegram on December 6 announcing the recent
   supernova discoveries to observers around the world. The participants
   in the discoveries listed on the telegram were: S. Perlmutter, S.
   Deustua, G. Goldhaber, D. Groom, I. Hook, A. Kim, M. Kim, J. Lee, J.
   Melbourne, C. Pennypacker, and I. Small, Lawrence Berkeley Lab. and the
   Center for Particle Astrophysics; A. Goobar, Univ. of Stockholm; R.
   Pain, CNRS, Paris; R. Ellis and R. McMahon, Inst. of Astronomy,
   Cambridge; and B. Boyle, P. Bunclark, D. Carter, and M. Irwin, Royal
   Greenwich Obs.; with A. V. Filippenko and A. Barth (Univ. of
   California, Berkeley) at the Keck telescope; W. Couch (Univ. of N.S.W.)
   and M. Dopita and J. Mould (Mt. Stromlo and Siding Spring Obs.) at the
   Siding Spring 2.3-m telescope; H. Newberg (Fermi National Accelerator
   Lab.) and D. York (Univ. of Chicago); D. Harmor, D. Willmark, and D.
   Silva at the WIYN telescope; and A. Walker, at CTIO.

   The Supernova Cosmology Project is jointly sponsored by Berkeley Lab
   and the National Science Foundation's Center for Particle Astrophysics
   at the University of California, Berkeley. The project is also
   affiliated with the new Institute for Nuclear and Particle Astrophysics
   at the Berkeley Lab.

   The Berkeley Lab is a U.S. Department of Energy national laboratory
   located in Berkeley, California. It conducts unclassified scientific
   research and is managed by the University of California.

   For More Information: contact Dr. Saul Perlmutter (510) 486-5203
