http://access.usgs.gov/prog_priorities.html

   USGS
   Place-Based Studies Program

   Chesapeake Bay program priorities
   Greater Yellowstone program priorities
   Mojave Desert program priorities
   Platte River program priorities
   Salton Sea program priorities
   San Francisco Bay program priorities
   South Florida program priorities

   Back to PBS Home

                      USGS Place-Based Studies Program

                             Program Priorities
                              November 30, 1999

   We shall not cease from exploration
       And the end of all our exploring
       Will be to arrive at where we started
       And to know the place for the first time.
                                  T. S. Elliot
              _________________________________________________

                        Program Priorities - Synopsis

     "The complex nature of natural ecosystems, and the increasingly
     complex nature of human stresses and demands on ecosystems, means
     that simple and narrowly focussed approaches are not sufficient to
     penetrate modern environmental problems."

     Enhancing Integrated Science, Workshop Report,
     Ecological Society of America and Geological Society of America

        The U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) is the principal center for
    scientific investigations within the U.S. Department of the Interior
       (DOI). Although it does not manage or regulate public lands or
    activities, the USGS, through its various programs, provides data and
    analyses that are responsive to the needs of Federal, State and local
    agencies, and other resource management and policymaking partners and
      clients (stakeholders). One of these programs is the Place-Based
     Studies Program (PBS), formerly the Ecosystem Program or Integrated
   Natural Resource Science Program, which was established by the USGS in
                           fiscal year (FY) 1995.


   Map showing distribution of PBS study areas within Bailey's Ecoregions
   Figure 1. PBS is actively involved in many of the county's major
   ecoregion divisions (sensu Bailey, et al (1993)). Most major domains
   and divisions are represented, although there are no study areas in the
   Polar domain, the Dry Savanna/Steppe, the temperate rainforest of the
   Pacific coast, the boreal forest or the Sub-tropical Semi-Desert Steppe
   (figure 1).^2

   The Program is concentrated in selected study areas. Activities in San
   Francisco Bay and south Florida began in 1995. Chesapeake Bay was added
   in FY 1996, and Platte River, Greater Yellowstone, and Mojave Desert in
   FY 1998. The existing USGS work in Salton Sea will be incorporated into
     the program in FY 2000. Programs in each study area are expected to
     last approximately five years, but additional follow-up studies or
    monitoring may extend the timeframe. Additional ecosystem study areas
                     are added as funding levels permit.

    The fundamental scientific goals of the program are to elucidate the
       interactions between ecosystem stresses and responses. Improved
    societal understanding of the structure and function of ecosystems is
      needed to improve our stewardship of the nation's environment and
   natural resources. The objective of the Program is to provide relevant,
          high-quality, impartial scientific information to enable
      resource-management agencies that require an improved scientific
      information base to make informed planning decisions and to help
    resolve and prevent resource-management conflicts. The information is
       designed to have a direct, significant, and immediate impact on
   management and policy decisions. The Program draws upon a diverse pool
     of scientific expertise primarily resident in the USGS. Integrated,
    inter-disciplinary teams link information on physical, chemical, and
   biological responses to environmental and resource management involving
   water, minerals, land, fish and wildlife. Such information has transfer
         value for similar situations in other geographic locations.



      Ecosystem management is a collaborative approach to natural and
      cultural resource management that integrates scientific knowledge of
      ecological relationships with resource stewardship pratices for the
      goal of sustainable ecological, cultural, and socioeconomic systems.

      (National Park Service)

    This approach enables the USGS to solve longstanding problems in new,
      more comprehensive ways and to explain more fully the interactive
                  nature of resources and the environment.

    The PBS establishes priorities by soliciting stakeholder input. Input
   at the regional level helps to ensure that the form and content of the
    information provided in each ecosystem are relevant and timely to our
    partners. Input is gathered through formal and informal interactions
    with local and regional coordination groups, sponsorship of workshops
   and meetings with Federal, State and local agencies to discuss program
        components, study design and results. At the National level,
     representatives of relevant Federal agencies within the DOI Science
     Board and the Ecosystem Advisory Committee provide guidance to the
                                  Program.

                               Back to the Top
              _________________________________________________

             PROGRAM RATIONALE, GOALS, AND SCIENTIFIC FOUNDATION

                             Societal Rationale

   The costs of restoration can be large, both for physical environmental
     alterations, and for forgone use of land and water resources. These
       economic realities demand effective environmental solutions and
       efficient resource use. Scientific information helps to ensure



   "The administration's initiatives to implement ecosystem management
   governmentwide face several significant barriers. For example, although
   ecosystem management will require reliance on ecological and
   socioeconomic data, the available data, collected independently by
   various agencies for various purposes, are often noncomparable and
   insufficient, and scientific understanding of ecosystem is far from
   complete... Furthermore, there is still much uncertainty about how
   ecosystems function--uncertainty that contributes to strong differences
   in the interpretation of scientific evidence."^1

   (GAO report on Ecosystem management)

       that future plans have realistic expectations for restoration,
   structures under construction are optimally managed, and managers have
     the tools to predict outcomes of possible restoration actions. The
    essence of many, if not most, ecosystem issues is competition for and
    conflict over the use of resources such as water, minerals, and land,
      when their use causes degradation and (or) threatens other uses.
    Improved scientific understanding of ecological processes and systems
        can help managers circumvent potential problems by predicting
      environmental and resource changes that result from environmental
                                  stresses.

     Resolution of resource management issues often requires information
      from diverse scientific disciplines that are at the heart of USGS
   capabilities and responsibilities. Under PBS, the teams that are formed
   to integrate the scientific disciplines bring a diversity of scientific
    skills to solve the complex, multifaceted environmental problems that
     are characteristic of major environmental debates. These teams face
    similar challenges across the country - defining historical ecosystem
   changes, designing monitoring programs for restoration and management,
    developing decision support systems (and science that supports those
   systems) that can be used to predict the effects of management actions.
     Scientifically derived relationships are needed to relate different
                          types of ecosystem data.

      Regional environmental resource issues in many ecosystems are at
    critical decision- making junctures. In south Florida, a restoration
   costing $11 billion to $15 billion will be based in part on scientific
     predictions of the probable effects of restoration actions. In San
    Francisco Bay, multimillion-dollar modifications of wetlands and the
        water management system require multidisciplinary scientific
    information. In Chesapeake Bay, implementation of changes in land use
     practices requires information on the effects of those practices on
   nutrient and sediment loading into Chesapeake Bay. The primary audience
     for the technical information is intended to be managers and their
   scientific support staff, but the public is also becoming increasingly
    able to use the data resources that are available over the Internet.
   The time may come when private landowners will approach the management
        of their own land with a degree of sophistication that rivals
                        experienced agency managers.

                            Goals and Objectives

     The goal of the Program is to enable resource managers to use sound
    science as a basis for informed planning decisions and resolution and
      prevention of resource-management problems. The objectives of the
                               Program are to:
     * Provide high-quality, impartial, and timely scientific information
       that can be accepted and used by all sides of resource-management
       and environmental issues;
     * Be responsive to the needs of Federal, State, and local agencies
       and other ecosystem stakeholders by providing timely, relevant
       information from the broad diversity of disciplines within the
       USGS; and
     * Develop multi- and inter-disciplinary and interdivisional
       approaches to ecosystem science.

                          The Scientific Foundation

   Scientists seeking to define predictive relationships within ecosystems
    face a high degree of uncertainty and troubling lack of information.
    The National Academy of Sciences has described the limitations of the
              current state of science related to restoration.

     "Even where general trends, such as wildlife population declines or
     changing stream quality, are clear, scientists are often unable to
     determine the impact of a specific action on those trends with any
     precision (or even whether the trends are a consequence of previous
     human actions or are natural). Problems of cumulative effects, lack
     of site-specific ecological knowledge, and the natural variability
     of ecological systems conspire to add substantial uncertainty to
     almost all uses of scientific knowledge in environmental
     decision-making. As a consequence, we must place as much emphasis
     today on techniques and policies for coping with uncertainty as we
     do on efforts to reduce that uncertainty."^3

       The Committee on Global Change Research identified "Scientific
    Questions"^4, answers to which are critically needed to move forward
    the state-ofñthe-art. These issues are the foundation for scientific
                   activities within Place-Based Studies.
     * What are the interactions of changing land use, climate, nutrient
       and toxic inputs, and hydrology on ecosystems and their ability to
       produce goods and services?
     * What are the required data sets, theory and models needed to
       understand the regional coupling of physical and chemical climate,
       land use, and ecosystems?
     * How do changes to terrestrial and hydrological systems alter
       coastal marine [and freshwater] systems?
     * Are there critical (keystone) species governing large-scale
       ecosystem function, and can we identify what species could become
       keystone under changing environmental conditions?

        The Interdisciplinary Framework - The PBS niche is to provide
                                 integrated,



   Paleoecological information from Biscayne Bay has shown that
   seagrasses, once thought to be keystone species, have only flourished
   in the last hundred years. Prior to that, Biscayne Bay was not saline
   enough to support them. Based on these new data, managers must decide
   if they want to manage the system to return to fresher water and less
   seagrass, or manage for more saline conditions that are more similar to
   what residents are used to.

       interdisciplinary information on the ecological framework that
          underlies environmental responses. Taken as a whole, the
     interdisciplinary framework allows the Program to approach complex
   problems in comprehensive ways. Individually, each discipline provides
       parts of the lens through which the environment can be seen and
     understood. This understanding will improve management of "places"
   within the Place-Based Studies Program, and in similar environments and
                      problems throughout the country.

     * Geologic and paleontological information set the climatologic,
       morphologic and geochemical bounds for the ecosystem. Historical
       climatic variability drives fluctuations in the water regime, which
       affects such things as plant tolerances, nutrient dynamics, and
       geochemical processes. Climate and geology control geomorphic
       processes, which shape topography and landforms. Geologic
       signatures can be found in the geochemistry of streams and terminal
       lakes, in soil type, sediment particle characteristics and in the
       plants and animals that depend on them.
     * Water distribution controls habitat for biota, and the
       geomorphology of river systems. Water use drives economic
       prosperity and powers the natural productivity of ecosystems. It is
       a critical resource for humans and the heart of many resource
       management conflicts.
     * Biological response is the critical endpoint for measuring success
       or failure of ecosystem restoration actions. It is closely tied to
       human well being, the economy and to our quality of life. Many
       endangered species, the trust responsibilities for the Department
       of the Interior, are central pillars of the resolve to restore and
       manage ecosystems.
     * Scientific integration of spatial data help scientists and managers
       understand the connections between diverse factors driving change.
       When integration is successful, the whole is greater than the sum
       of its parts. By working with related information from several
       disciplines, scientists can improve the state-of-the-science in
       interpreting environmental processes, and thus their service to
       those who manage our natural resources.

   Cross-disciplinary Programmatic Elements ñCertain Programmatic elements
    are shared across all of the "places" within PBS, because many of the
    problems encountered in managing environmental resources are similar
   across the country. In each of the "places", USGS information helps to
    set goals for management and restoration, helps to determine criteria
     and measure management success, improves understanding of ecosystem
    processes and status, and improves the modeling capability to predict
   the outcome of management strategies. The Program provides information
     in forms that are of maximum utility to resource and environmental
        managers, landowners and the general public. Setting Goals -
   Information on historic environmental conditions and natural variation
    is the first step to developing attainable and relevant goals for the
     future. Understanding how the region functioned before disturbance
   provides a framework for understanding what has been sustainable in the
      past under natural climatic variability. It is often difficult to
     distinguish between natural climatic variability and the effects of
    human activities. Ecosystem history can also provide clues as to the
   pitfalls of proceeding along certain paths in the future. Documentation
             of landscape change also helps scientists determine



    Data from hydrographic and topographic surveys from the 1850s to the
    1990s, in combination with data on historical trends in sediment metal
    contamination in San Francisco Bay, have helped predict contaminant
    levels that might occur in dredged or newly exposed sediments.

   why the environment responds to change the way it does, because causal
    factors are sometimes buried in sediments, soils (e.g., contaminants)
          or the biological community (e.g., remnant populations).

   Success Criteria - Selection of success criteria for restoration should
     be closely tied to goal setting. Commonly these are easily measured
   metrics that relate closely to societal goals, e.g., a healthy fishery,
      adequate water, etc. Success criteria are part of the monitoring
             strategy for achieving success for the restoration.

    Ecosystem Processes and modeling - Effective predictive tools, either
      conceptual or mathematical, combine information on environmental
   conditions with understanding of the underlying processes that control
    the response of natural or stressed systems. Though modeling has made
        much progress in the last 20 years, predictive capability in
    multi-stressor systems, such as implications of interactions between
    dissolved organic carbon, contaminants and microbial communities for
      contaminant exposure; community level effects of contaminants and
    sediments; the roles of geology, geochemistry and land use change in
     shaping animal and plant communities; and natural and anthropogenic
     factors that alter resistance and resilience of different types of
                landscapes, lags behind the needs of society.

    Scientific Issues - The Program seeks to improve the understanding of
      structure and function of ecosystems by examining the causes and
   interactions between ecosystem stresses and responses. These stressors
    can be the direct result of human activities such as competition for
     and utilization of water, land, energy, harvested species or other
     major resources, or an incidental result of other human activities,
     such as transportation, waste assimilation, and dumping of ballast
   water. Some problems, like climate change, are global in nature and are
       not amenable to local solutions, unless those solutions involve
   shifting goals to accommodate changing conditions. Others problems may
   be locally caused and remediated yet are present throughout the region
   or nation. For instance, the problems caused by water withdrawal in the
     Platte River are similar in many locations throughout the semiarid
                                    West.

      These ultimate causes of environmental problems - climate change,
        competition for resources, waste assimilation, and incidental
    activities - are factors in a manageable list of stressors that focus
   the science on what is needed for restoration. Each of these causes can
     lead to disruptions of community dynamics, species imbalances, and
    ultimately threaten and endanger species viability. All are issues in
    PBS Study Areas. These issues are a part of the programmatic purview,
     as agents of ecosystem change. Each location has issues that are of
   major importance and others that are relevant but not major foci of the
                             program (Table 1).

     Table showing issues that are of major importance in each PBS Study
                                    Area
                 Table 1. Issues: Agents of Ecosystem Change
     * Climate change and variability - Important in setting goals for
       restoration, and for distinguishing between human and climatic
       impacts
     * Land use change drives habitat loss, fragmentation and degradation,
       causing disruption of surficial deposits, loss of soil and sediment
       stabilizing mechanisms, erosion, resuspension, and sedimentary
       imbalances. This topic covers many kinds of problems, including
       off-road vehicle use, road building, fire suppression, and
       urbanization.
     * Competition for and utilization of resources - Water, land, energy,
       and harvested species is at the heart of many restoration efforts.
       Hydrologic alteration includes channelization, water withdrawal,
       levee construction, in- stream flow changes, aquifer storage,
       floods and droughts. It leads to changes in sediment transport and
       channel morphology and is frequently caused by resource competition
       or land use change. Climate change can exacerbate or moderate the
       effects of hydrologic alteration.
     * Assimilation of wastes - Inputs of contaminants, nutrients and
       sewage cause altered biogeochemical cycling, ecological imbalances,
       disease and toxic effects. Waste assimilation is one of the many
       services that humans expect from the environment, and excesses in
       chemical and nutrient contamination resulting from non-point source
       and end of pipe releases are a primary cause of environmental
       degradation.
     * Incidental activities such as transportation, and dumping of
       ballast water sometimes introduce or exacerbate invasions of
       nonnative species and spread disease.

   Ecosystem Services --Natural ecosystems benefit human societies in many
   ways. Ecosystems produce a diversity of goods, such as seafood, fodder,
      and timber, which represent an important part of the economy. In
   addition, natural ecosystems perform fundamental life-support services,
    such as purifying air and water, detoxifying and decomposing wastes,
     regulating climate, regenerating soil fertility, and producing and
      maintaining biodiversity. These functions are worth trillions of
    dollars annually to the agricultural, pharmaceutical, and industrial
   sectors. However, since most are not traded in economic markets they do
     not have prices that could signal changes in their supply. Economic
     development that destroys habitats and impairs services can create
       costs in the long term to humanity that may greatly exceed the
     short-term economic benefits attributed to such development. Today,
    growing impacts of human activities imperil the delivery of ecosystem
   services. Ecosystem services operate on such a grand scale and in such
    intricate and little-explored ways that most could not be replaced by
   technology. Scientific information will help society to understand how
      to balance sustaining ecosystem services and pursuing the worthy
                  short-term goals of economic development.

                               Back to the Top
              _________________________________________________

                             PROGRAM PRIORITIES

     Using sound science as a basis for informed planning decisions and
   resolution and prevention of resource-management problems requires that
   the scientific scope of the Place-Based Studies Program include all of
      these issues. In each place, a different combination of issues is
      important. All of the issues are represented in the program. The
    opportunity for providing science for restoration is present in areas
     where restoration has become an important focus of management. The
       selection of sites for the program is driven by the presence of
    restoration activities and the priority given to those activities at
      the Departmental level. Currently, activities are based in South
   Florida, San Francisco Bay, Chesapeake Bay, Greater Yellowstone, Mojave
   Desert, Platte River, and Salton Sea (to be brought into the program as
      part of the budget restructure of FY 2000). If the USGS budget is
   augmented as requested in the President's FY 2000 budget, activities in
   the Great Lakes will begin. Many of the issues under investigation are
      also problems in other regions of the country, and the scientific
      acumen gained or approach successfully used in one study area is
        applicable to similar locations to those within the Program.

                       Program Direction and Evolution

    Program Staging - In each study area, scientific activities follow a
    similar path. The primary components of ecosystem studies are problem
    definition, database development, measurement of important ecosystem
     attributes (such as flows, populations, elevation and stratigraphy)
   ecosystem history, process studies, modeling, and monitoring. Appendix
      A provides details on the planned activities in each study area.

     * The impetus to restore an area (and thus selection as a study area)
       usually follows formal or informal monitoring that indicates that
       the area needs management attention. A monitoring program that is
       directed towards specific restoration success criteria should be
       implemented in the early phases of the restoration action, or
       before restoration begins, so that change can be detected.
       Monitoring of restoration success is phased in and modified as
       information on ecosystem processes becomes better known, and the
       scientific opinion coalesces around reliable and informative
       metrics.
     * Database and web- related activities are most intense in the early
       years of these programs because the accumulation of available
       information forms a springboard for further study of processes.
     * Measurement of ecosystem attributes is needed at the beginning to
       ensure that models are based on accurate data. Depending on the
       quantity, quality, and types of information available, modeling may
       be delayed.
     * Process studies provide the fundamental understanding of the
       linkage between ecosystem components and are the basis for
       modeling. As monitoring results become available, further studies
       are needed to understand how processes have changed.
     * Models formalize the predictive capability in useable tools. As
       more is learned about the processes governing ecosystem
       interactions, as the system itself changes in response to
       management, models must be refined to incorporate new
       understanding.
     * Ecosystem history provides a scale against which to measure the
       relative impacts of human alteration, sea level rise and climate
       change.

                  Program Priorities for Each Study Area ñ

    (See Appendix A for timelines and Appendix B for GPRA documentation)

                 SOUTH FLORIDA STUDY AREA (Begun In FY 1995)

                           [South Florida website]



   Issues - In the last 100 years, requirements for water supply and flood
   protection for urban areas and agriculture have resulted in
   construction of an extensive canal system and prompt drainage of water
   into the Atlantic Ocean rather than seasonal seepage through the
   Everglades and into Florida Bay. Water diversions and excessive
   nutrients and mercury within the Everglades have decimated bird
   populations and driven the Florida panther to the brink of extinction.
   In Florida Bay, declines in seagrasses result in decreasing water
   clarity and declining fish populations. The South Florida Ecosystem
   Restoration Task Force is drawing up plans for restoring the Everglades
   and Florida Bay. Like many areas, national and regional monitoring
   programs and local stakeholders provided most of the original
   indications that the Everglades and Florida Bay were in trouble.

      The USGS Place-Based Studies Program in South Florida The program
      encompasses data, ecological and hydrologic processes and models,
     information integration and synthesis, and tools to make scientific
     information available to Federal and State agencies and the public.
     Ecosystem and hydrologic models are used to evaluate the effects on
    species and habitats of restoration actions. Predictive capability of
   these models draws upon process studies and data from many disciplinary
      and interdisciplinary areas. Much of the research on hydrologic,
    cartographic and geologic, biological / ecological issues relevant to
    DOI's research role in South Florida ecosystem restoration reflects a
   strong collaborative program between the USGS and the NPS through DOI's
               Critical Ecosystems Studies Initiative (CESI).

                              Program Elements

        USGS provides extensive scientific information to inform the
                                restoration.
    1. Comprehensive regional scale monitoring information is important to
       track restoration trends. Studies related to development of success
       criteria will be augmented in coordination with the Corps of
       Engineers, the National Park Service and the South Florida Water
       Management District. Hydrologic monitoring of the southern and
       southwest coasts of the Everglades will continue to supply data for
       model development. USGS provides information on sustainability of
       restoration targets, success criteria, and the methods for
       determining whether success has been achieved.
    2. The database and Internet access system, known as SOFIA (South
       Florida Information Access), will continue to distribute USGS
       information electronically and expand by providing the same
       capabilities for data from Fish and Wildlife Service and National
       Park Service. Database efforts will continue to incorporate
       existing and new datasets, and continue the information framework
       for South Florida.
    3. USGS builds ecological and hydrologic models that include USGS
       information on hydrology, biology, geology, and other land
       characteristics. At the present time, funding is augmented through
       the Critical Ecosystem Studies Initiative of the National Park
       Service. Data and an extensive understanding of the processes that
       govern the interactions between biological, physical and chemical
       components are used in predictive models. Hydrologic and ecological
       models, under construction by USGS and others, use USGS hydrologic,
       ecological, geophysical, geologic, cartographic, bathymetric,
       biological and paleontological information to establish salinity
       yardsticks to measure restoration success, to predict where water
       will flow under different scenarios, and to assess its potential
       impact on the biota. These predictive models will help the USACE
       redesign the flow through the Everglades to restore Everglades bird
       populations and natural ecological dynamics in Florida Bay, while
       ensuring that the urban and agricultural areas have sufficient
       water to maintain their economy.
          + ATLSS is a system of interlocking models that use hydrologic
            information and land characteristics to predict responses of
            critical species to hydrologic modifications. Ecological and
            landscape models will be developed for additional species and
            ecosystem zones. Scientific studies related to responses to
            ecosystem stressors such as environmental contaminants will be
            begun and the information incorporated into models in
            following years (FY 2000-2005).
          + The Southern Inland Coastal System (SICS) model will be
            expanded to include Everglades National Park. It incorporates
            USGS process-level information on vegetative resistance to
            flow, wind effects, and evapotranspiration, and USGS data on
            elevation, and flows. The SICS model will ultimately include
            the mangrove fringe, Biscayne Bay, Everglades National Park,
            and the urban corridor. Efforts will be reduced when the
            studies in the enlarged area are completed (FY 2002
            timeframe).
          + Coarse-scale (400 m), high-accuracy elevation data collection
            for Shark River Slough, Big Cypress, western mangroves and
            west of the Park Road will be continued into FY 2000 and
            complete by FY 2001. Collection of fine-scale elevation-data
            using advanced techniques will provide information on high
            priority areas, such as the newly acquired preserve lands.
    4. Aquifer Storage and Recovery (ASR) activities are expected to
       increase in response to needs for "Getting the Water Right".
       Groundwater studies related to ASR will start in FY 2000 and
       continue for 3-5 years. The Program expects to redirect significant
       resources to this activity in the future, but it is anticipated
       that an additional million dollars in FY 2000, possibly with
       budgetary support from the U. S. Army Corps of Engineers, will be
       needed to start up this activity.
    5. Estuarine and Bay Studies in Biscayne Bay and Florida Bay have
       sought to understand the linkage between the hydrologic, ecological
       and historic changes. These studies will be integrated in FY 2000
       and continue for a few more years.
    6. Geochemistry studies will continue to provide process-level
       information on the impacts of hydrologic and nutrient changes. Much
       of the work to date provided the fundamental science regarding
       regional processes. Geochemical work in the future will assess the
       potential effects (e.g., enhanced methylation rate of mercury) of
       restoration in actions in particular geographic areas. For example,
       it will help managers decide how to manage planned stormwater
       treatment and nutrient removal areas in the north so that they
       don't exacerbate the problem of mercury in the foodchain. Funding
       may be augmented through the Critical Ecosystem Studies Initiative
       of the National Park Service. The Environmental Protection Agency
       partially funded this work in FY 1998 and 1999.
    7. Much of the ecosystem history work in the Everglades, Florida Bay.
       Biscayne Bay will be completed in the next few years, although work
       in the Bays may continue into FY 2002.

      In the first few years, the program in South Florida focussed on
    research and data collection. The programmatic emphasis on synthesis
   (integration of science and enhancement of the electronic availability)
     will be largely complete by the end of FY 2001. The synthesis will
    integrate the accumulated scientific knowledge and understanding from
   USGS studies, help to chart the future scientific direction of the USGS
        program, and contribute to interagency synthesis activities.

   After FY 2001, several programmatic changes will take place in response
    to needs for science to support the evolving restoration. As the NPS
    Critical Ecosystem Studies Initiative funds diminish there will be a
   gradual shift toward biological studies, especially studies related to
    contaminants. Studies that enhance our understanding of the linkages
       between biological and physical parameters will be emphasized.

                    Integration with other USGS Programs

      Activities in the South Florida are also supported by Hydrologic
     Research and Development, the National Cooperative Geologic Mapping
     Program, the Federal-State Cooperative Water Program, the National
       Water Quality Assessment Program, the National Mapping Program-
     Geographic Research and Applications, Ground-Water Resources, Toxic
     Substances Hydrology, Water Data Collection and Management, and the
                 Biological Research and Monitoring Program.

                               Back to the Top

               SAN FRANCISCO BAY STUDY AREA (Begun in FY 1995)

                         [San Francisco Bay website]



   Issues - Historical destruction of wetland habitats, diversion of
   freshwater for irrigation and drinking water supplies, introduction of
   exotic species, and contamination from urban, agricultural and
   industrial sources have all contributed to declines in populations of
   fish and wildlife in San Francisco Bay estuary.

                                   Program

     Initiated in FY 1995, the Program has supported research studies on
   flow dynamics, distribution and biological effects of contaminants, and
         sedimentary and population-level effects related to wetland
    restoration. Funding from the Program has allowed for the development
    of new tools and procedures to make existing and new information more
   widely available via the Internet. The FY 1999 restructuring of the San
     Francisco Bay- Delta study into two new integrated program elements
    will continue into FY 2003, with a possible decline in funding in the
   final year. The two projects address some of the key components of the
   mission of the CALFED (the major ecosystem management stakeholder group
    for the San Francisco Bay/Delta issues): to restore ecosystem health
      and improve water management for beneficial uses of the Bay-Delta
                                  system".

     * Studies of the hydrological, ecological attributes and functioning,
       and use by resident plant, invertebrate, fish, and waterbird
       communities of a key non-tidal wetland habitat (salt evaporation
       ponds) prior to an important decision regarding their possible
       conversion/restoration to tidal wetland habitat. Augmentation of
       the bathymetric components of this project would be a useful
       addition if funds were available.
     * Studies of the interactions between water flow, salinity,
       bathymetry, sediment and pollutant (pesticides and metals)
       transport, and effects on populations of resident species. The
       understanding gained in this component will be tested in San Pablo
       Bay in the future (2002 timeframe) in conjunction with an ongoing
       study of contaminant exposure and effect on waterfowl in San Pablo
       Bay, if funds are available.

                    Integration with other USGS Programs

    Activities in the South Florida are also supported by the Hydrologic
     Research and Development, the National Mapping Program- Geographic
   Research and Applications, Water Data Collection and Management, Toxic
    Substances Hydrology, the Biological Research and Monitoring Program,
      the National Water Quality Assessment Program, the Federal-State
   Cooperative Water Program, The Coastal and Marine Program, the National
    Cooperative Geologic Mapping Program, The National Park Service, the
      U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the South Florida Water Management
     District, Florida Department of Environmental Protection and other
                            cooperating agencies.

                CHESAPEAKE BAY STUDY AREA (Begun in FY 1996)

                          [Chesapeake Bay website]



   Issues - In Chesapeake Bay, the Nation's largest estuary, excessive
   nutrients have caused periods of hypoxia (insufficient dissolved oxygen
   to support living resources). The high levels of nutrients, and
   associated sediment loads and algal blooms also decrease water clarity,
   which is largely responsible for the decline in submerged aquatic
   vegetation (SAV).

                                   Program

     The objectives of the U. S. Geological Survey (USGS) Chesapeake Bay
                           Ecosystem program are:
     * Determine the response of water-quality and selected living
       resources of the Bay watershed and estuary to changes in nutrient
       inputs and climatic variability;
     * Better define and evaluate the natural and anthropogenic controls
       on water quality and living resource response; and
     * Provide resource managers with the management implications of the
       above scientific findings so they may evaluate the effectiveness of
       different nutrient-reduction strategies.

     A critical aspect of the program is the analysis of history of Bay
    ecology. The Chesapeake region has seen 300 years of human activity -
       clearing land for agriculture, changing agricultural practices,
   reforestation, and urbanization, for which we have good documentation.
      As State and Federal managers try to put in place best management
   practices, one of the best ways of determining the potential effects of
   the land use actions is to examine the sedimentary record in this area.
    Many of the efforts in Chesapeake Bay will be coming to a close in FY
      2001. Priorities in Chesapeake Bay are expected to shift to put a
     greater emphasis on contaminants and sediments. The program may be
      given the option of refocusing efforts into new areas in FY 2001.

                    Integration with other USGS Programs

      Activities in the Chesapeake Bay are supported by the Hydrologic
     Research and Development, the National Cooperative Geologic Mapping
     Program, the Federal-State Cooperative Water Program, the National
     Mapping Program- Geographic Research and Applications, the National
   Water Quality Assessment Program, Water Data Collection and Management,
     Ground-Water Resources, and the Biological Research and Monitoring
                                  Program.

                          STUDIES BEGUN IN FY 1998

   Studies in Greater Yellowstone, Mojave Desert, and Platte River were at
    pilot stages in FY 1999. Augmented funding has been requested for FY
    2000. The programs were designed to last approximately five years at
   the $1.5-2.0 million level, with efforts spread out over a longer time
   frame at lower funding levels. Current pilot funding levels are in the
                     $500-$700K range for these studies.

                 MOJAVE DESERT STUDY AREA (Begun in FY 1998)

                           [Mojave Desert website]



   Issues - Encompassing six military bases, four national park units, and
   considerable Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and other Federal lands,
   the Mojave Desert is home to a rapidly growing population of well over
   a million people. The desert also is home to active and abandoned
   mines, off-road recreation areas, and waste disposal sites. Crossed by
   a web of utility corridors and aqueducts that sustain southern
   California cities and provide local road access, the most remote area
   of the desert lies within three miles of a road. Estimating the effects
   of continued population growth and increased resource use in the region
   is difficult given the limited knowledge of biological diversity,
   mineral wealth, and surface- and ground-water hydrology. The desert is
   dynamically linked to global climate that modulates seasonal and annual
   weather patterns, which influence floods, droughts, wildfires, and
   water availability. Human activities, such as grazing animals,
   off-highway vehicle use, construction, mining, urban expansion, waste
   disposal, recreational uses, and water withdrawal, and natural
   processes influenced by man, such as fire and invasive species, have
   increased the vulnerability of the desert environment to soil erosion
   and ultimately habitat degradation.

                                   Program

     The Mojave Desert Ecosystem Science Program is an interdisciplinary
      study of vulnerability and recoverability of land to natural and
    human-induced disturbances characterized by soil compaction, wind or
     water erosion, or disruption of water flow. The ultimate goal is to
   provide a deeper understanding of arid-land ecosystems that helps land
   managers devise policies that allow human use of the desert while also
   protecting its vulnerable resources. It aims to accomplish this goal by
    studying selected sites in detail and extrapolating the attributes of
     those areas to the whole of the Mojave. The program provides direct
       assistance to land-management agencies in using these data and
    interpretations in geographic information systems (GIS). At the base
      level of funding, a model of vulnerability of lands in the Mojave
     Desert to wind erosion will be completed by the end of FY2004. This
   model will be demonstrated within the framework of a prototype decision
    support system that allows desert managers to forecast capability the
    anticipated consequences of alternative land use decisions by the end
   of FY 2005. The first soil compaction model will be refined to forecast
   plant coverage rates and speciation of recovering sites. These products
    will be measured on the basis of how well they meet the requirements
     for usage in land use decision making by desert managers and their
      staffs. Augmented funding in FY 2000, would allow the program to
   include formulation of a monitoring plan for the Mojave, incorporate a
    greater range of habitat types, include vertebrate response to roads,
     and move the date of completion from FY 2005 to FY 2004. Additional
       augmentation in FY 2001 would be used to ad invasive plants and
   vertebrate responses to urbanization and move up the completion date to
    FY 2003. Studies of the Mojave will have applicability to restoration
                  activities in other arid-land ecosystems

                              Task Description

     During FY98, the first year of study, investigations were begun at
     three sites with varying histories. During FY99 investigations were
   extended to the Nevada Test Site and to a transect through Joshua Trees
      National Park and 29 Palms Marine Corps Base. These studies will
   continue and be extended to include approximately 12-15 sites over the
     life of the program. If the program expands, remote sensing will be
          investigated for its potential to extend local landscape
   characterization to larger areas or to obtain specific variables (like
      soil particle size). Existing studies on ecosystem dynamics, fire
        history and ecology, invasive species, climatic variability,
     soil-moisture budgets, human population impacts, and similar topics
    affecting disturbance and recovery of desert lands will be examined,
      synthesized, and published as a series of review papers. Specific
   studies will be undertaken to examine biological and physical processes
      acting at the surface, including identifying thresholds of change
    controlled by these processes. The insights gained from these studies
    will form the scientific framework necessary to develop vulnerability
        and recoverability models for desert ecosystems. Multi-scale
      integration of data and methods for displaying vulnerability and
     recoverability indices and estimating error ranges will be critical
   components of the effort. The objective is to provide information to a
   decision support system that uses scientific findings from the program
    to help land managers look at ecosystem health yesterday, today, and
                                  tomorrow.

    Throughout the life of the program, data, interpretations, and models
   will be made available to desert land managers and other clients in an
   expeditious fashion. Important program findings will be interpreted and
       made available to the general public through both print and web
      publications to enhance popular understanding and appreciation of
      desert ecosystems and USGS science. Scientists will publish their
    results in the peer reviewed scientific literature and present their
                    findings at appropriate conferences.

   The Mojave project captures the spirit of the DMG and NPR by taking on
    the challenge of using the integrated scientific capabilities of the
         USGS to determine which desert lands are most vulnerable to
    disturbance, what the effects of that disturbance is likely to be on
    the biota, and what recovery rates are anticipated. The project works
   directly with the DMG Science and Data Management Team, which provides
                          oversight of the project.

                    Integration with other USGS Programs

     Hydrologic Research and Development, National Cooperative Geologic
     Mapping Program, Earth Surface Dynamics, National Mapping Program -
    Geographic Research and Applications, and the Biological Research and
            Monitoring Program support activities in the Mojave.

               GREATER YELLOWSTONE STUDY AREA (Begun FY 1998)

                        [Greater Yellowstone website]



   Issues - The greater Yellowstone ecosystem contains natural phenomena
   that are unique on our continent: migrating herds of wildlife,
   indigenous predators, and geothermal features associated with one of
   the largest dormant volcanic areas in North America. Human and wildlife
   activities in the Greater Yellowstone are often structured around its
   unique geologic features: the ancient volcano caldera and the
   associated geothermal features. An ever-increasing number of people
   live and recreate in this landscape. Humans have fragmented the
   landscape by physically altering the habitat and changing vegetative
   characteristics. Roadbuilding, hunting, trapping, and the diverse
   management strategies of different agencies compound the impacts of
   fragmentation. Long-range planning for wildlife and human activities in
   the greater Yellowstone depends on understanding the influence of human
   activities on wildlife, and the cascading interactions among wildlife
   and their physical and biological habitat.

          The Greater Yellowstone Initiative (GYI) is designed to:
     * Improve understanding of the uses of habitat by wildlife and
       humans,
     * Develop information resources that are consistent across management
       units,
     * Improve knowledge about ecological resources and regional
       biophysical processes
     * Improve knowledge of ecological effects of population growth and
       economic development
     * Apply scientific knowledge and advanced information systems to
       decision making

       Augmentation of the GYI effort is needed in several areas. The
    development of the decision support system would be greatly enhanced
     with additional effort in the areas of database development, model
    construction, socioeconomics and fieldwork to supply information for
   wildlife habitat use. Models for additional species would allow better
    interpretation of the interaction among species and prediction of the
     effects of habitat modification on a more diverse group of species.
    Socioeconomic factors are an important driver of land use change and
   information on these factors will provide the foundation for predictive
                                   models.

                    Integration with other USGS Programs

   Activities in the Yellowstone are supported by the National Cooperative
     Geologic Mapping Program, Geographic Research and Applications, the
    National Water Quality Assessment Program and the Biological Research
    and Monitoring Program. The Minerals Program has an ongoing study of
                mineralization processes in Yellowstone Lake.

                 PLATTE RIVER STUDY AREA (Begun in FY 1998)

                           [Platte River website]



    Issues - The Platte River is an internationally significant staging
    area for migratory water birds of the Central Flyway and critical
    habitat for the whooping crane. The landscape has been transformed by
    major reservoirs and water diversion projects, which have changed the
    river channel and adjacent wet meadows. These changes were brought on
    by irrigation and power development that is critically important to
    sustain the economic base of the area.

                  The objectives of the USGS study are to:
     * Increase access to information on Platte River ecology, historical
       spatial information, and hydrology; and
     * Assess the impact of restoration activities by describing the
       interactions between fluvial geomorphology and biological system
       health, through studies involving relations between wet meadows,
       migratory bird habitat and health, vegetation, sediment transport,
       river hydraulics, and restoration actions.

   The Platte River Program has been kept at the pilot level (many people
      making introductory efforts) because of lack of funds for several
    years. Additional field efforts are needed to improve sediment model
   reliability, to relate species habitat requirements to physical habitat
   attributes, and to improve understanding of the effects of restoration
    actions. These efforts will require an additional $1M to move beyond
                              the pilot stage.

                    Integration with other USGS Programs

   Activities in the Platte River are supported by the Hydrologic Research
   and Development, the Energy Resources Program, Geographic Research and
      Applications, and the Biological Research and Monitoring Program.

                        SALTON SEA (Begun in FY 1999)



   Issues - The Salton Basin is a highly productive ecosystem with
   tremendous importance to the migration, wintering, and breeding for
   many water birds in the Pacific Flyway birds. The decline of wetlands
   on western flyway during this century makes the Salton Sea much more
   crucial for many birds. Since the Sea's accidental formation early in
   this century, salinity and nutrient levels have increased dramatically
   because, as a terminal lake, incoming irrigation drainwater evaporates
   under the intense heat of the desert. Although it continues to be
   important for wildlife, wildlife diseases appear to be increasing, and
   the economic and recreational benefits from hunting, fishing and
   tourism have declined. The focus of the effort is currently largely
   biological, with a primary emphasis on fish and wildlife diseases.

   Additional efforts are needed to supply information on the physical and
   geochemical framework that biota depend on. Ultimately, this ecosystem
   should be brought to the $2M level. The first step towards that goal is
   the development and integration of geochemical components with existing
   biological components. ($400K)

Integration with other USGS Programs

   The Biological Research and Monitoring Program support activities in
   the Salton Sea.

                               Back to the Top
              _________________________________________________

                                  RESOURCES

             Opportunities for Interprogram Cooperative Efforts

   The Program is currently at $15 Million with inputs from other programs
   within the USGS. However, PBS relies heavily on the resources and
   skills of single discipline programs in formulating interdisciplinary
   teams. Each discipline provides critical information that is used in
   managing an ecosystem. Geologic and paleontological information set the
   climatologic, morphologic and geochemical bounds for the ecosystem.
   Historical climatic variability drives fluctuations in the water
   regime, which affects such things as plant tolerances, nutrient
   dynamics, and geochemical processes. Geology and geomorphic processes
   control topography and landform, another essential element of climate.
   Geologic signatures can be found in the geochemistry of streams and
   terminal lakes, in soil type, sediment particle size and in the plants
   and animals that depend on them. Water distribution controls habitat
   for biota, and the geomorphology of river systems. It drives economic
   prosperity and powers the natural productivity of ecosystems.
   Biological responses are the critical endpoint for measuring success or
   failure of ecosystem restoration actions. They are critical to human
   wellbeing, economy and to our quality of life. Many endangered species,
   the trust responsibilities for the Department of the Interior, are
   central pillars of the resolve to restore and manage ecosystems. The
   diversity of disciplines demonstrates that the whole is greater than
   the sum of its parts, and that by working with related information from
   several disciplines, scientists can improve their interpretation of
   their own data.

Personnel Needs

   The program requires scientific expertise in database management,
   construction of web pages, fish and wildlife ecology with expertise in
   each biome (marine, estuarine, riverine, lacustrine, terrestrial,
   montaine, grassland, wetland, desert, upland, tropical, eastern
   deciduous, etc) taxonomy, paleoecology (expertise in pollen,
   geochemical dating, stable isotope chemistry, invertebrates),
   cartography, remote sensing, geochemistry, ecology, sedimentary
   geology, structural geology, environmental toxicology, fate and
   transport of organic and inorganic chemicals, glacial geology,
   hydrology, water quality, water and sediment chemistry, and other
   disciplines within the USGS.

   ^1Government Accounting Office.1994. Ecosystem Management, Additional
   Actions needed to adequately test a promising approach. B256275
   GAO/RCED-94-111. 87pp.
   ^2Bailey, Robert G.; Avers, Peter E.; King, Thomas; McNab, W. Henry,
   eds. 1994. Ecoregions and subregions of the United States
   (map).Washington, DC; U.S. Geological Survey. Scale 1:7,500,000;
   colored. Accompanied by a supplementary table of map unit descriptions
   compiled and edited by McNab, W. Henry, and Bailey, Robert G. Prepared
   for the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Forest Service.
   ^3Reid, Walter V. 1996. Status of ecological knowledge related to
   policy decision-making needs in the area of biodiversity and ecosystems
   in the United States. Pages 327-344 in: linking Science and Technology
   to Society's Environmental Goals. National Academy of Sciences Press
   554 pp.
   ^4Global Environmental Change, Research Pathways for the next decade.
   1998. National Research Council. National Academy Press



              * Download Appendix A (Microsoft Word file, 79 Kb)
              * Download Appendix B (Microsoft Word file, 239 Kb)

                               Back to the Top

     U.S. Department of the Interior, U.S. Geological Survey, Center for
   Coastal Geology
   This page is: http://access.usgs.gov/prog_priorities.html
   Comments and suggestions? Contact: Heather Henkel - Webmaster
   Last updated: 30 November, 1999 @ 06:28 PM (KP)
