http://www.hpc.ncep.noaa.gov/HPCjob.htm

          Job Opening in the Hydrometeorological Prediction Center

                              Camp Springs, MD

   The HPC has an opening for a GS-12/13 meteorologist. The successful
   candidate will join a team of 28 other meteorologists that have daily
   responsibilities for issuing analyses and forecasts covering a wide
   range of meteorological phenomena. Please see the HPC Web Page at:
   http://www.hpc.ncep.noaa.gov/     for specifics of HPC's products and
   services.

   The NWS mission is focused on the saving of life and property and to
   enhance the national economy. The NWS is preparing to retool its
   product suite to better meet this mission directive. The HPC, over the
   next few years, will be heavily involved in this retooling. HPCs role
   will be to collaborate with National Weather Service forecast offices
   throughout the U.S, to produce a coherent, and value added set of
   digital forecast products that will represent the best digital forecast
   database available to NWS partners and customers. The HPC has an
   exciting role to play in how this database is generated. Its role as a
   Center of Excellence in medium range forecasting, quantitative
   precipitation forecasting, flash flooding, winter weather, and its
   knowledge of numerical model characteristics and performance, will make
   it one of the premier locations of employment for a meteorologist.

   In addition to the routine products seen on the HPC web page, HPC is
   also involved in other challenging forecast problems. HPC is the backup
   for the Hurricane Center. In this role, HPC produces forecast tracks of
   all tropical storms west of 65W longitude. HPC also assumes
   responsibility for briefings with FEMA once tropical systems move
   inland over the CONUS since they may cause massive flooding as was seen
   with Allison this summer. HPC also continues to issue storm summaries
   as a continuation of what the Hurricane Center had been issuing until
   the system no longer poses a threat of flooding.

   HPC is often called upon by the administration to provide specialized
   forecasts that can not be done by a local forecast office. In the
   recent past this had included helping forecast smoke intrusions into
   the US from the massive fires in Central America back in 1998. It also
   recently included providing or facilitating with other WFOs, forecasts
   to the President's Chief of Staff, of weather impacts to the recovery
   efforts in New York and Washington D.C. after September 11^th.

   HPC has a first class media center that is used to brief national media
   on many different types of weather events across the US. These are
   events that encompass many individual WFOs and as such, national media
   comes to a national center for information. You might have noticed HPC
   personnel on the national news talking about summer heat, winter cold,
   snowstorms etc.

   HPC also works very closely with EMC model developers. HPC is closely
   involved with evaluating the next-generation versions of the
   operational models such as the ETA and AVN. Special access is made for
   HPC to obtain these gridded fields in close to normal operational time
   frames so forecasters can assess the added value of the modifications
   made.

   Being a forecaster in the HPC will be an exciting and challenging
   position. For further information please call David Reynolds at
   301-763-8000 x7317 or email at david.reynolds@noaa.gov. The vacancy
   announcement can be accessed at:     http://www.jobs.doc.gov/
