http://ma.water.usgs.gov/welcome.htm

   Link to USGS home page

   Search



   Home

   Site Index







   News | Water Data | Stream Stats | Basins | Projects | Publications |
                              Outreach | Info

   WELCOME MESSAGE FROM DISTRICT CHIEF

   The U.S. Geological Survey was established by Congress in 1879 to
   provide the Nation with reliable information to describe and understand
   the Earth. Today, this information is used to:

   minimize loss of life and property from natural disasters;

   manage water, biological, energy, and mineral resources;

   enhance and protect the quality of life;

   and contribute to wise economic and physical development.

   The USGS is the Nation’s largest earth- and life-science agency and has
   the primary responsibility within the Federal government for mapping
   the Nation, assessing its geologic resources and hazards, understanding
   its natural biological resources, and providing hydrologic information
   for appraising the Nation’s water resources.

   The USGS has been collecting basic hydrologic data and conducting
   interpretive investigations of the water resources of Massachusetts and
   Rhode Island’s since the early 1900s. These efforts provide policy
   makers, managers, scientists, and the general public with the
   information needed to understand and make decisions about the natural
   resources of Massachusetts and Rhode Island.

   The Massachusetts-Rhode Island District of the U.S. Geological Survey
   currently consists of 76 staff members at two locations (Northborough,
   MA and Providence, RI), all of whom contribute to water resources
   studies. In conducting its mission of describing the water resources of
   the Nation, the USGS Massachusetts-Rhode Island staff work with 34
   cooperating local, State, and other Federal agencies with common
   interests in water resources.

   The Massachusetts-Rhode Island District of the USGS primarily addresses
   water issues that include: flooding; surface- and ground-water quality;
   the occurrence, distribution, quantity, and movement of surface water
   and ground water; the chemical and biological quality of surface and
   ground water; contamination of surface water and ground water by
   hazardous waste; and the impacts of urbanization on water quantity and
   quality.

   I hope that you find the information on the following pages to be
   helpful, interesting and informative. If you have any comments or
   suggestions on how the pages could be improved to better serve your
   needs, please feel free to contact the Massachusetts-Rhode Island
   District Webmaster at  webmaster@ma.water.usgs.gov.

   Thank you.

   Wayne H. Sonntag

   District Chief

   Massachusetts-Rhode Island District

   Water Resources Division

   U.S. Geological Survey


                                                             Maintainer:
                         webmaster@ma.water.usgs.gov

                                         Last modified:  Thursday,
   December 27, 2001

                                             URL:
   http://ma.water.usgs.gov/welcome.htm


                                             Privacy Statement
   Disclaimer   Accessibility
