http://exams.spb.ca.gov/btr/index.htm

                  Business Taxes Representative Examination

    Welcome to the Board of Equalization's Business Taxes Representative
    Internet Examination, prepared by the California State Personnel Board.

   Please read all of the information carefully.

   This examination is for the Business Taxes Representative
   classification.

   You MUST review the entire examination bulletin before taking the
   examination!

   Click here To review the bulletin, including job duties and minimum
   qualifications for the job classification, and be sure that you meet
   the minimum qualifications before proceeding with the examination.

   The examination consists entirely of a questionnaire which is an
   evaluation of your education, experience and knowledge. You will be
   given instructions on how to complete the process as you proceed
   through the examination. The education, experience and knowledge based
   examination is weighted 100%, and will be used to determine your final
   score and rank. It is important that you fill out the examination
   completely and accurately.

   YOUR RESPONSES ARE SUBJECT TO VERIFICATION. You will be asked to
   provide transcripts and/or documentation necessary to verify your
   responses in this examination.

IMPORTANT!!

    The Business Taxes Representative examination system will be shut down every
    Tuesday at 8:00 AM, Pacific Standard/Daylight Time for processing and
    maintenance. DO NOT begin the examination process after 6:00 AM on Tuesdays
    or you might not be able to complete the examination prior to our shutting
    down the system. The system will be restarted and will be available again
    each Tuesday after 4:00 PM, Pacific Standard/Daylight Time.

   Before attempting to complete this examination process on the Internet,
   it is strongly recommended that you review the sample examination
   elements below, which contain exactly the same questions that are asked
   on the real examination, to familiarize yourself with the questions and
   rating scales. You may want to print the questions and prepare your
   answers in advance. There are no questions on this examination which
   will require you to research your educational history or other
   documents. When you are completely satisfied with your responses, log
   onto the Internet and complete the examination on-line.

   You may review the entire examination by clicking on each segment
   below. These are exact copies of the real examination. Do NOT submit
   these documents in the mail as an attempt to take the examination. You
   must take the examination using the Internet process. Browse to the end
   of this page to continue to the official examination.

   General Instructions
   Internet Test Page
   Statistical Information
   Application Form
   Education Questions
   Life Experience Questions
   Analytical Skills Questions
   Collection Skills Questions
   Communication Skills - Verbal Questions
   Communication Skills - Written Questions
   Interpersonal Skills Questions
   Numeric Skills Questions
   Personal Computer Skills Questions
   Preferences and Experience Questions

   DO NOT ATTEMPT TO TAKE THE EXAMINATION FOR PRACTICE. YOU ARE ALLOWED
   ONE ATTEMPT TO TAKE THE EXAMINATION. Once you begin the exam, you will
   be required to finish it in one session. Except as stated in the
   Internet section of the examination, failure to complete the
   examination in one session is cause for disqualification.

   Please be aware that placement on the eligibility list does not
   guarantee that you will be interviewed or selected for a job opening.
   All successful candidates will be placed on the eligibility lists in
   one of six ranks.

   There are more candidates on the eligibility lists than there will be
   job openings. Due to the size of the eligibility lists, candidates for
   interviews may be selected at random. If you are contacted for an
   interview, you may be asked to demonstrate your readiness for a job.
   This may include conducting skills assessments. Additionally, you will
   be asked to provide verification of your Internet Examination
   responses. Once you have attained placement on the eligibility list(s),
   you will remain eligible for a job appointment for 12 months. If, after
   12 months of list eligibility, you have not been selected for a job
   opening, you will be required to retake and successfully pass the
   examination. If you do not retake and successfully pass the
   examination, you will not be considered for future job openings.

   If you are unsuccessful in this examination, you will be allowed to
   retake it six (6) months from the date you received your examination
   results. This will provide you an opportunity to update any training,
   education, or experience you may have acquired since first competing in
   the examination.

   If you are a current State of California Civil Service employee, you
   should contact your departmental personnel office before accessing the
   examination on State equipment and/or time to determine your
   department's policy, as your department may not allow use of State
   equipment and time to take this examination.

   There are some general requirements for employment with the State of
   California, and some general information which you should read. Click
   Here to review the General Employment Information.

   If you have read the examination bulletin, including the job
   description and required knowledge and abilities, determined that you
   meet the minimum qualifications, and are ready to start the
   examination, Click Here to continue.
