http://www.state.gov/r/pa/rls/5968.htm

    globe                                             U.S. Department of State
          lines
                                   Home contact us FOIA Privacy Notice Archive

          About the State Department Press and Public Affairs Travel and Living
          Abroad
          Countries and Regions International Topics and Issues History,
          Education and Culture
          Business Center Other Services Employment

   [Print Friendly Version]


        United Against Terrorism
        Released by the Bureau of Public Affairs

        horizontal bar of flags


   President Bush and Secretary Powell in front of flags of the world "As
   long as the United States of America is determined and strong, this
   will not be an age of terror; this will be an age of liberty, here and
   across the world."
   —President George W. Bush (September 20, 2001)
   "The events of September 11 brought home to us in tragic fashion the
   global reach of terrorists in today's world.  The lesson is clear:  To
   defeat terrorists, we must identify them, we must find them, and we
   must seize them wherever they are in the world doing their evil deeds
   or plotting new evil deeds."
   —Secretary of State Colin Powell (October 10, 2001)
        Fighting Terrorism on Many Fronts
        The war on terrorism is being fought on many fronts through diplomatic,
        military, financial, intelligence, investigative and law enforcement
        actions. Citizens from more than 80 countries were killed or injured in
        the September 11 terrorist attacks in the U.S.  In an unprecedented
        coalition effort, nations from around the world have joined with the
        U.S. in the fight against terrorism.  The  22 "Most Wanted" suspected
        terrorists have been identified as part of the worldwide assault on
        terror.

        Diplomatic Actions
          * The United Nations Security Council unanimously enacted a binding
       resolution requiring all member countries to pursue terrorists and
       those who support them, including financial support systems.
     * Nineteen NATO nations invoked Article V declaring an attack on one
       as an attack on all.
     * The OAS invoked the Rio Treaty, obligating signatories to consider
       an attack against any member as an attack against all.

   Military Actions
     * The U.S. military launched attacks on al Qaeda training camps and
       Taliban military installations in Afghanistan starting on October
       7, 2001.

   Humanitarian Actions
     * The U.S. is the leading donor of humanitarian aid to the Afghan
       people, allocating more than $500 million in assistance in 2001.
     * During military operations, the U.S. is continuing air drops of
       food and other humanitarian relief supplies for the Afghan people.
     * President Bush has asked all U.S.  children to help by contributing
       $1 to America's Fund for Afghan Children.

   Financial Actions
     * The United States and other nations have frozen millions of dollars
       in assets belonging to the Taliban, Usama bin Laden and the al
       Qaeda network.
     * Over 150 countries have joined the effort to disrupt terrorist
       assets.

   Law Enforcement/Investigative Actions
     * Counterterrorist operations have been intensified with more than
       200 intelligence and security services worldwide.
     * The State Department's Rewards for Justice Program
       (www.dssrewards.net) is offering up to $25 million for information
       leading to the arrest or conviction of those who have committed or
       are planning acts of international  terrorism.

   U.S. Counterterrorism Policy

     * Make no concessions to terrorists and strike no deals.
     * Bring terrorists to justice for their crimes.
     * Isolate and apply pressure on countries that sponsor terrorism to
       force them to change their behavior.
     * Bolster the counterterrorism capabilities of those countries that
       work with the U.S. and require assistance.

   International Response
   British Prime Minister Tony Blair: "This is not a battle between the
   United States of America and terrorism, but between the free and
   democratic world and terrorism.  We, therefore, here in Britain stand
   shoulder to shoulder with our American friends in this hour of tragedy,
   and we, like them, will not rest until this evil is driven from our
   world."

   Egyptian Minister of Foreign Affairs Ahmed Maher:  "We are cooperating
   with the United States in many ways...We believe that the United
   States, as the government of a country that believes in law and
   justice, will act on the basis of a case -- a good case -- and I am
   sure they have a good case -- against the culprits who committed this
   horrible crime of September 11."

   Indian External Affairs Minister Jaswant Singh: "We continue to hold
   that September 11 was an assault on freedom, on civilization, on
   democracy...and we stand shoulder to shoulder with the international
   community and the United States of America in our battle against this
   global menace."

   Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi:  "In the fight against
   terrorism and in the effort to assist the victims, the people of all
   nations of the world, including the United States, must combine their
   efforts in cooperation."

   Kyrgyz President Askar Akayev:  "It is imperative to strengthen
   international cooperation in combating this global evil without
   frontiers and nationalities in order to prevent the repetition of what
   has happened."

   Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo:  "Terrorism and terrorists must
   never be given comfort.  The spirit of democracy must never be downcast
   but must be buoyed up and made unconquerable."

   Organization of American States Secretary General Cesar Gaviria: "Our
   governments will not hesitate to do whatever is necessary to bring to
   justice the perpetrators, organizers and sponsors, and to punish them
   with the full weight of the law. Impunity is not an option."

   Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf:  "Concerted international effort
   is needed to fight terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. The
   carnage in New York and Washington has raised this struggle to a new
   level. Pakistan has been extending cooperation to international efforts
   to combat terrorism in the past and will continue to do so. All
   countries must join hands in this common cause."

   Russian President Vladimir Putin: "The series of barbaric terrorist
   acts, directed against innocent people, has evoked our anger and
   indignation...There is no doubt that such inhuman actions cannot be
   left unpunished. The whole international community must rally in the
   fight against terrorism."

   UN Secretary General Kofi Annan: "We are in a moral struggle to fight
   an evil that is anathema to all faiths. Every state and every people
   has a part to play. This was an attack on humanity, and humanity must
   respond to it as one."

   For Further Information:
   www.state.gov
   www.whitehouse.gov
   www.dssrewards.net
   firstgov.gov
   www.defenselink.mil
   www.usaid.gov
   www.libertyunites.org
   www.un.org
   horizontal bar of flags
   Released on November 7, 2001
   This site is managed by the Bureau of Public Affairs, U.S. Department
   of State. External links to other Internet sites should not be
   construed as an endorsement of the views contained therein.
