http://resourcescommittee.house.gov/press/2001/2001_0802safeactpasseshouse.htm

   blue bar
   NEWS from
   Congressman James V. Hansen, (1^st District - Utah)
   Chairman, Committee on Resources; U.S. House of Representatives;
   1324 Longworth House Office Building; Washington, D.C. 20515-6201;
   202-225-2761
   Website address: http://resourcescommittee.house.gov/
   blue bar
   FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
   Contact: Marnie Funk (Marnie.Funk@mail.house.gov) or
   Michael Correia (Michael.Correia@mail.house.gov)
   (202) 226-9019
   August 2, 2001

            Chairman Hansen Hails Final Passage of SAFE Act 2001
        House acts to ensure America a future of abundant energy, new
                                efficiencies,
                conservation and more clean, renewable fuels

   Washington, D.C. House Resources Chairman James V. Hansen early
   Thursday morning hailed the passage of SAFE Act of 2001 as a strong
   bipartisan stand for a sound national energy policy that ensures
   abundant supplies of diverse fuels, greater conservation efforts, new
   energy efficiencies and a growing reliance on clean, renewable fuels.

   Chairman Hansen's statement:
   "This victory was long-fought and hard-won. Five committees and their
       staffs put in months of hard work. Unions recognized early that
       this bill would create more than 700,000 new jobs. They have done
       yeomens work in building bipartisan support for this bill.
       "Early this morning, we accomplished the goal we set for ourselves.
       Two hundred-forty members of the House voted for Americas energy
       future, Americas national security and Americas economic future.
       They cast a vote for American consumers, a vote for American
       workers, a vote for American technology and a vote for our
       environment.
       "This bill is as close to a win-win as any legislation Ive seen.
       More production of proven fuels. More renewables. More research.
       More conservation. Better use of technology. Rigorous protections
       for our air, water, land and wildlife. Its all there. Its an energy
       bill for today and an energy foundation for decades to come."

     For more information, please check the House Committee on Resources
              Home Page at http://resourcescommittee.house.gov

                                    # # #
