http://www.fms.treas.gov/news/factsheets/e-tax.html

   FMS Masthead and Navigation Bar

   About FMS | News| Fact Sheets

   FACT SHEET

All-Electronic Taxes

   Updated January 30, 2002

   Thanks to two Treasury bureaus-the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and
   the Financial Management Service (FMS)--three electronic ways to file
   and pay 2001 taxes and get your tax refund are now available to
   American taxpayers. These methods, when used together, cut a
   significant amount of taxpayer time. There is E-File for filing and
   paying taxes by credit card or ACH debit; the Electronic Federal Tax
   Payment System (EFTPS) for paying taxes via electronic transmission,
   such as Internet or telephone; and Direct Deposit for sending your tax
   refund directly to your bank account.

   E-file

   E-file was first offered nationwide in 1990. During last year's filing
   season, approximately 40.2 million people used e-file to file tax
   returns and to make single, one-time payments. This year, IRS expects
   the number of e-filers to grow to more than 45 million. With e-file,
   payments can be made using credit cards or by Automated Clearinghouse
   (ACH) debit from your account. Credit card providers charge a fee for
   this process, but there is no fee involved in ACH debit payments. The
   ACH debit option allows the taxpayer the convenience of scheduling a
   payment in advance and then having that payment withdrawn automatically
   from a bank account on the designated date. Last tax season, there was
   a 13.6 percent increase of e-filers over the previous year.

   E-pay: Electronic Federal Tax Payment System (EFTPS)

   EFTPS was originally introduced in 1996, but in September 2001, FMS and
   IRS launched a new Internet application, EFTPS-On-Line at www.eftps.gov
   Exit FMS , which allows individuals and businesses to pay Federal taxes
   using Internet technology. Earlier electronic methods, which are still
   available today, allowed taxpayers to make federal tax deposits using
   PC software or the telephone. EFTPS-On-Line continues to provide the
   many conveniences of the earlier options, such as 24/7 anytime anywhere
   service, as well as some added features. These features include:
   instant, printable acknowledgement for documenting each transaction;
   the ability to schedule advance payments; and access to payment
   history.

   Currently, there are more than 3.5 million taxpayers enrolled in EFTPS,
   with nearly 37,500 enrolled in the on-line version. Each year, more
   than $1.6 trillion is collected through EFTPS, with Internet payment
   accounting for more than $7.7 billion of that total. EFTPS-On-Line
   offers convenience, security and safety to those taxpayers owing
   quarterly estimated tax payments, and individual taxpayers as well.
   Funds are electronically withdrawn from the taxpayer's account as
   instructed and approved on-line. The taxpayer receives a payment
   confirmation documenting each transaction, which helps in record
   keeping.

   E-refund: Direct Deposit

   Available for more than 25 years, Direct Deposit has a proven track
   record of being safe, reliable and convenient. Since the Debt
   Collection Improvement Act of 1996 (DCIA) was signed into law, Treasury
   has aggressively promoted Direct Deposit of Federal recurring payments.
   A portion of the DCIA, called Electronic Funds Transfer '99 (EFT '99),
   mandated electronic transfer of federal payments, but did not include
   tax refunds in that requirement. Nevertheless, when Treasury first
   began its efforts to promote Direct Deposit over paper checks, it also
   included Direct Deposit of tax refunds in those efforts. Since 1995,
   there has been a 350 percent increase in the number of taxpayers
   choosing Direct Deposit. Last filing season, nearly 34 million people
   chose to have their tax refund deposited directly into their bank
   accounts.

   Electronic vs. Paper

   Many factors beyond our control-weather conditions, natural disasters,
   and transportation glitches-- can affect prompt delivery of paper tax
   documents, including your tax refund check. Recently, many people have
   been concerned about timely mail delivery of their payments to
   creditors. Some are rethinking the way they are conducting their
   personal financial business and switching to electronic methods of
   payment. Going all-electronic gives peace of mind that those payments
   and your tax refund are going where they need to go and getting there
   on time.

   Additionally, paper checks can be lost in the mail, or stolen. In
   Fiscal Year 2001, Treasury received nearly 1.5 million claims for lost
   or stolen checks. Checks totaling nearly $65 million were forged and
   cashed by financial institutions, and checks totaling nearly $11
   million were altered or counterfeited. Why take the chance that this
   could happen to you, when a safer, more dependable way-Direct
   Deposit-is available?

   Another advantage of electronic payment is the amount of time is takes
   to fix a problem, should your payment be lost, stolen, misdirected. In
   the case of paper checks, it takes about three weeks to issue a
   replacement check. This could definitely add to the amount of waiting
   time to get your tax refund payment in hand. Why take risks, when you
   can receive your tax refund in a safer, more convenient and faster way?

   Go Electronic-It's the Best Way to Go!

   File your taxes using e-file; pay your taxes using EFTPS; and choose
   Direct Deposit for your refund. It will cut your wait in half! *

   *Note: Even if you insist on filing your taxes the old-fashioned paper
   way, choose to get your refund sent directly to your account by opting
   Direct Deposit. It will still cut a week or so from that wait!
