http://www.rspa.dot.gov/admin.html

   [rspainner_Admin.jpg]



   Ellen G. Engleman
   Administrator
   Research & Special Programs Administration
   U.S. Department of Transportation

      President George W. Bush nominated Ellen G. Engleman as Administrator
      of the Research and Special Programs Administration (RSPA) of the
      Department of Transportation. Confirmed by the Senate, she was sworn in
      on September 25, 2001.

      Administrator Engleman leads RSPA in ensuring the safety and security
      of the American people for the Department of Transportation through its
      focus on key research, development, education, training, regulations
      and enforcement for the transportation of hazardous materials; on
      America's energy infrastructure of liquid and gas pipelines; and on
      emergency transportation in times of civil or natural disasters.

      With nearly 20 years of experience in public and governmental affairs,
      public policy and administration, she is a business leader, attorney
      and accredited public relations professional.

      She was most recently president and chief executive officer of
      Electricore, Inc., an Indiana-based non-profit consortium for research
      and development of advanced transportation and energy technologies
      through federal private/public partnerships. Over six years, she led
      the consortium's expansion to participation by major U.S. automotive
      manufacturers, large and small businesses in 17 states and over 25
      universities, and to federal R&D partnerships of $160 million involving
      more than 70 projects.

      Miss Engleman devoted humanitarian service as a board member and
      director of corporate and government affairs for Direct Relief
      International, the nation's oldest non-sectarian medical relief agency.
      Her work increased in-kind medical donations by nearly 100%, and
      resulted in successful medical relief programs in more than 100
      countries. Founder of the Vitamin Angel alliance, her programs
      addressed nutritional needs of women and children on four continents.

      She was a public affairs executive for GTE, with responsibilities for
      federal and state telecommunications public policy and corporate
      communications in a ten-state region.

      Fulfilling a personal goal, she was commissioned as an officer in the
      U.S. Naval Reserve in 2000, and serves in a Naval Reserve unit
      supporting the Chief of Naval Information in the Pentagon.

      Miss Engleman graduated from Kennedy School of Government at Harvard
      University in 1993 with a Master's in Public Administration. She was
      awarded a J.D. from the Indiana University School of Law in 1987, and
      admitted to Bar in the State of Indiana, and Northern and Southern
      Federal Courts. She graduated from Indiana University in 1983 with a
      B.A. in English and Communications. She holds APR accreditation of the
      Public Relations Society of America.

                                   Return
