http://www.centerofexcellence.gov/text/main.html


                        CEIT
   Center of Excellence for Information Technology

    Introduction     Upcoming Events   Take a Tour Training Search
   IT Applications Showcase Experience    Staff     Survey

     Introduction

   "The kind of government we'll have as we begin the next century will be
   a government where all Americans have the opportunity to get services
   electronically and where, aided by technology, the productivity of
   government operations will be soaring."
   -- Vice President Al Gore

   Welcome to the Center of Excellence for Information Technology's (CEIT)
   website. The Center focuses on proven information technology (IT) best
   practices in both the public and private sectors. It supports the
   direction and the spirit of Vice President Al Gore's Access America
   Plan.
   The CEIT serves as a clearinghouse for best practices in information
   technology applications with initial IT applications demonstrating the
   strategic use of web-enabled technologies to perform a wide range of
   business processes. Included are such business processes as on-line
   training, procurement, acquisition, electronic commerce, human
   resources management, employee self-services, and many other
   applications.

   The site will continually showcase a dynamic display of
   state-of-the-art IT applications. As Best Practices are identified,
   this site will share the news with you.
   We appreciate the interest and support shown by our industry and
   government partners. Congratulations to the award winning
   demonstrations showcased at the Virtual Government '99 & '00
   Conferences.
   We encourage your continued, active participation in the CEIT. The
   value of the Center lies in its ability to facilitate the sharing of IT
   success stories in the public and private sectors and to demonstrate
   the benefits of using technology to operate an electronic government.
   The Center of Excellence for Information Technology welcomes your
   input.
   James J. Flyzik
   Co-Champion
   Center of Excellence for Information Technology [transparent.gif]
   Sandra N. Bates
   Co-Champion
   Center of Excellence for Information Technology
