http://warner.senate.gov/services/services.htm

   Inspecting Southwest Virginia Flood Damage Warner Main Page Banner
   Warner Main Page Banner


   About the Senator Link
   Legislation Link
   Press Office Link
   Services Link
   Accomplishments Link
   Tourism Link
   Kids Link
   Contact Link
   Contact the Senator

   [casework_i.gif] [tour_i.gif] [academy_i.gif] [flagrequest_i.gif]
   [grants_i.gif] [internships_i.gif]

   HOW CAN I HELP YOU?

   My job as your Senator is to make our Government work for you. My staff
   and I spend many hours each day working to ensure this happens. The
   information provided below is to acquaint you with the services
   available to you through my office.

   SOLVING PROBLEMS WITH FEDERAL AGENCIES

   My office has several staff members dedicated to helping you resolve
   individual problems you may be experiencing with a FEDERAL agency. My
   staff and I can help you determine if you have a federal, state or
   local issue. If a federal issue, we can help you facilitate resolution.
   I also have included some helpful state and local telephone numbers on
   this page.

   VISITING WASHINGTON D.C.

   Find out what tours are available to you and your family while visiting
   Washington, D.C. I have also included some of the wonderful tourist
   attractions in the Commonwealth of Virginia.

   SEEKING U.S. SERVICE ACADEMY NOMINATIONS

   Each year I am privileged to have the opportunity to nominate
   outstanding young Virginians to the U.S. Military Academy at West
   Point, the U.S. Naval Academy, the U.S. Air Force Academy and the U.S.
   Merchant Marine Academy. My Service Academy Nomination packet is
   available on this website or by sending a request to my Washington
   office.

   REQUESTING A U.S. FLAG

   Please visit this page if you are interested in purchasing a flag that
   has been flown over the United States Capitol.

   FEDERAL GRANTS

   I am frequently asked what federal grants are available and how to
   apply for them. If you or your organization are interested in applying
   for federal grants or are looking for sources of funding, please visit
   this page.

   INTERNSHIPS AND THE SENATE PAGE PROGRAM

   My office is honored to have several fine young Virginians working as
   interns in my Washington, D.C. office as well as the district offices
   located in Roanoke, Richmond, Abingdon and Norfolk. If you are
   interested in applying for an internship, my intern application is
   available on this page. Information on the Senate Page Program is also
   available.

                  About the Senator  ·  Legislation  ·  Press
        Office  ·  Services  ·  Accomplishments  ·  Tourism  ·  Kid's
                                Page  ·  Contact
