http://rrdjazz.nist.gov/whatwedo.html

   NIST Center for Neutron Research

   Home Science Instruments Experiments Proposals SiteMap

                          Introduction to the NCNR

                         Center for Neutron Research

     Modern technological society is dependent upon increasingly
     sophisticated use of materials, many of whose attributes are
     dictated by their sub-microscopic structural and dynamical
     properties. A wide range of scientific techniques, of which many
     types of scattering (for example, x-rays, light, electrons, neutrons
     ) are arguably the most important, provide knowledge of these
     properties. Of these probes, neutrons are perhaps least familiar,
     but they provide important advantages for many types of
     measurements.

     Neutrons, as prepared for use at modern sources, are moving at
     speeds comparable to those of atoms moving at room temperature, thus
     providing the ability to probe dynamical behavior. At the same time,
     neutrons are well matched to measurements at length scales ranging
     from the distances between atoms to the size of biological or
     polymer macro-molecules. Neutrons are sensitive to the magnetic
     properties of atoms and molecules, allowing study of the underlying
     magnetic properties of materials. They also scatter quite
     differently from normal hydrogen atoms than they do from heavy
     hydrogen (deuterium), allowing selective study of individual regions
     of molecular systems. Finally, neutrons interact only weakly with
     materials, providing the opportunity to study samples in different
     environments more easily (at high pressures, in shear, in reaction
     vessels, etc.), and making them a non-destructive probe. These
     favorable properties are offset by the relative weakness of the best
     neutron sources compared to x-ray or electron sources, and by the
     relatively large facilities required to produce neutrons. As a
     result, major neutron sources are operated as national user
     facilities to which researchers come from all over the United States
     (and abroad) to perform small-scale science using the special
     measurement capabilities provided.

     In addition to scattering measurements, neutrons can be used to
     probe the atomic composition of materials by means of capture and
     resultant radioactive decay.The characteristics of the decay act as
     “fingerprints” for particular atomic nuclei, allowing studies of
     environmental samples for pollutants (e.g., heavy metals),
     characterization of Standard Reference Materials, and many other
     essential measurements. While the scattering and capture users of
     neutrons are little concerned with understanding the inherent
     properties of the neutron, there are important areas in physics that
     can be explored by carefully measuring fundamental neutron behavior.
     Examples include the lifetime of the free neutron, an important
     quantity in the theory of astrophysics; the beta decay process of
     the neutron, the details of which are stringent tests of nuclear
     theory; and the effects of various external influences such as
     gravity or magnetic fields on neutrons.

     The NCNR utilizes neutrons to provide facilities, including the
     Nation's only internationally competitive cold neutron facility, for
     all of the above types of measurements to a national user community.
     There are approximately 35 stations that can provide neutrons for
     experiments. At the present time 27 of these are in active use, of
     which 6 provide high neutron flux positions in the react for
     irradiation, and 21 are beam facilities. A schematic layout of the
     beam facilities and brief descriptions of available instrumentation
     are given below. More complete descriptions can be found at NCNR
     Instrumentation.

     These facilities are operated both to serve NIST mission needs and
     as a national facility, with many different modes of access. Some
     instrumentation was built years ago, and is not suited to general
     user access; however, time is available for collaborative research.
     NIST has recently built new instrumentation ( FANS, DCS, USANS), and
     reserves 13% of available time for mission needs with the balance to
     general users. In other cases, instrumentation was built and is
     operated by Participating Research Teams (PRT); PRT members have
     access to 75% of available time, with the balance available to
     general users. In a special case, NIST and the National Science
     Foundation established the Center for High Resolution Neutron
     Scattering at the NCNR, with a 30 m Small Angle Scattering (SANS)
     instrument, a cold neutron triple axis spectrometer, and the neutron
     perfect crystal SANS commissioned this year. For these facilities,
     most time is available for general users. While most access is for
     research, whose results are freely available to the general public,
     proprietary research can be performed under full cost recovery. Each
     year, approximately 1600 researchers (persons who participated in
     experiments at the facility, but did not necessarily come here) from
     all areas of the country, from industry, academe, and government use
     the facility for measurements not otherwise possible. The research
     covers a broad spectrum of disciplines, including chemistry,
     physics, biology, materials science, and engineering.
     Last modified 10-January-2002
