http://www.e-commerce.ca.gov/6_summary.html


   Home
   Preface
   Introduction
   Taxes
   Privacy
   Caveat Emptor
   California
   Annex
   Summary
   Contact Council
   Download Report


   Home
   Preface
   Introduction
   Taxes
   Privacy
   Caveat Emptor
   California
   Annex
   Summary
   Contact Council
   Download Report


   Home
   Preface
   Introduction
   Taxes
   Privacy
   Caveat Emptor
   California
   Annex
   Summary
   Contact Council
   Download Report


   Home
   Preface
   Introduction
   Taxes
   Privacy
   Caveat Emptor
   California
   Annex
   Summary
   Contact Council
   Download Report


   Home
   Preface
   Introduction
   Taxes
   Privacy
   Caveat Emptor
   California
   Annex
   Summary
   Contact Council
   Download Report



                     "If I'm so empowered, why do I need you?"
            Defining Government's Role in Internet Electronic Commerce
        __________________________________________________________________

                         Summary of Recommendations

                             TAX RECOMMENDATIONS

     1 Governments at the local, state, and national levels when
   considering the application of existing and proposed tax laws to
   electronic commerce should abide by basic tax principles: Neutrality,
   the lowest rates on the broadest base, transparency, and ease of
   implementation for taxpayers.

     2 State and national governments should rationalize and harmonize
   rules for income, property, and consumption taxes to reduce (i)
   government and private sector compliance costs, and (ii) the likelihood
   that economic activities will be taxed more than once. A coordinated
   effort will help produce clarity, certainty, and neutrality and can
   reduce overlapping taxes and conflicting requirements, which in turn
   will promote the expansion of e-commerce. For example, if an agreement
   can be reached among the states that sales tax jurisdiction will not be
   asserted merely on the basis of where a server is located the position
   taken by the California Board of Equalization then there will be one
   less basis on which two states might try to tax one transaction twice.

     3 A streamlined tax system should be devised for mail order,
   telemarketing, television home shopping, and e-commerce retail sales of
   goods. The system would allow the states into which physical goods are
   shipped to require the seller to collect and remit sales and use taxes.
   This will require federal legislation, preferably based on a plan
   devised by state and local governments working with the Advisory
   Commission on Electronic Commerce that has been created by the Internet
   Tax Freedom Act. The new system should include, among other elements,
   the following

     * A low-cost system for implementation such as a unified set of
       definitions for determining which goods are taxable, and a single
       point of tax reporting and remittance in each state for retailers.
     * A low-cost system for compliance such as requiring that any audit
       that is performed be done at the state level (that is, explicitly
       not at the county or tax district level), accommodating the
       possibility of consolidated multi-state tax audits, and providing a
       safe-harbor rule for good faith compliance in the collection of
       sales taxes that only permits prospective remedies that carry no
       penalties.
     * An agreement that authoritatively establishes that sales taxes will
       be collected by the merchant on behalf of the "destination" state
       to which the goods are shipped.
     * A comprehensive approach that applies to all interstate sales and
       shipments of tangible goods including mail order sales, telephone
       sales, and cable TV "home shopping" sales, as well as Internet
       e-commerce. Unless all forms of interstate sales of tangibles are
       covered, the principle of tax neutrality will not be served for
       tangibles.

     4 The status quo should be maintained for taxing the interstate sale
   of intangibles and provision of services. In other words, the proposed
   federal legislation that would authorize states to require sales tax
   collections by out-of-state sellers would apply only to the sale of
   tangible products. This approach recognizes that effectively collecting
   taxes on intangibles and services would be inherently difficult because
   even the most conscientious merchant will not know for certain where
   his or her "goods" are being electronically "shipped". After all, to
   paraphrase a famous Internet aphorism: On the Internet, no one knows
   you're a German Shepherd, a Chinese Shar-pei, or the mutt next-door.

     5 The California Board of Equalization, which administers the sales
   tax laws, should periodically consider whether sales and electronic
   delivery of software, music, books, magazines, and other such goods
   (which are non-taxable under current law) have become so significant
   that sales of such products in tangible form should also be made
   nontaxable. For example, if software delivered electronically captures
   more than 35 percent of the market, the principle of tax neutrality as
   well as equity for consumers and among sellers would support
   elimination of sales taxes on so-called "shrink wrapped" software that
   is delivered in a physical medium, such as a CD-ROM. The Board should
   report to the Governor and the Legislature its findings about the
   on-line distribution channel as it develops, recommending tax
   reductions as appropriate to achieve comparable tax treatment between
   the digital and physical markets.

     6 Once a new system for taxation of interstate sales is in place,
   California and each other state that levies a sales tax should review
   the tax-base-broadening revenue impact of the new system and consider
   reducing its sales tax rate. For example, states could lower the rate
   such that there is no net increase in aggregate sales tax revenues.
   While the Council is not recommending that a state adopt any particular
   rate, we do draw attention to the tax principles at issue, specifically
   that the best tax policy embodies a broad base and low rates. Since a
   law allowing a state to collect sales taxes on interstate sales helps
   that state meet the base-broadening goal, the state should also strive
   for the second goal lower rates.

                           PRIVACY RECOMMENDATIONS

     1 Companies engaged in e-commerce sellers, advertisers, portals,
   Internet service providers, software companies, and others should
   continue promoting broad industry implementation of good privacy
   practices, as well as educating consumers about steps they can take to
   achieve their desired level of on-line privacy.

     2 Government should work with industry to promote an annual "National
   Internet Privacy Day" to help consumers achieve the level of privacy
   they want for themselves and their families as they use the Internet to
   communicate, learn, and shop. The first years event will be held in
   early 1999. Members of the Council who operate Internet portal sites,
   along with other portal site operators, Internet service providers
   (ISPs), and other companies offering e-mail services will be asked to
   send an e-mail to each customer (but not those who have asked to be
   left alone) outlining ways in which they can protect their on-line
   privacy. Links will be provided to websites where consumers can find
   out additional information about privacy policies, as well as tips on
   privacy protection. Consumers will be provided information about ways
   to customize the software they use to read e-mail in order to filter
   out unsolicited commercial e-mail, or "spam", how to find free and
   commercial software products to control personal information accessible
   to websites they visit, and how to protect the privacy of children who
   send and receive information over the Internet. Government at all
   levels can participate by posting links on their web pages to these
   information sites.

     3 All on-line businesses should disclose (a) what information its
   website collects about those who visit, (b) how that information is
   used by the website operator, (c) whether it is made available to other
   affiliated or non-affiliated companies and under what conditions
   restricting use and further dissemination, and (d) what general steps
   are taken to protect the information from unauthorized access (i.e.,
   hacking). As more and more businesses post informative privacy notices,
   a consumer will be able to choose whether to patronize a website with a
   posted privacy policy that meets his needs versus a site with a
   less-restrictive policy or none at all. The Federal Trade Commission
   should continue to work with companies, industry associations, and
   consumer groups to promote good privacy practices and disclosure to
   consumers as well as developing model terms from which website
   operators could choose and upon which they could build their privacy
   policies. Model terms would help ensure that consumers clearly
   understand a websites privacy policies. Additionally, since the FTC has
   made clear that it will move against websites that do not meet the
   terms of whatever privacy notice is posted, model terms would help
   website operators avoid inadvertent conflicts between their posted
   policies and their actual data practices.

     4 Following Californias lead in passing Internet anti-junk-mail
   legislation^1, Congress should pass a bill that requires unsolicited
   commercial e-mail ("spam") to be labeled as an advertisement, to
   include information that accurately indicates the sender's return
   e-mail address, and to provide an e-mail address for sending a request
   to be removed from the mailing list used to send the e-mail.
   Additionally, Congress should pass legislation that requires anyone
   sending unsolicited commercial e-mail to accurately indicate the
   e-mails origin and that prohibits someone from making use of a mail
   server unless authorized to do so. For example, one of the new
   California laws requires senders of unsolicited commercial e-mail to
   place "ADV:" at the start of the subject line, while the subject line
   of any commercial e-mail intended for adults must start with
   "ADV:ADLT".

     5 Congress and appropriate federal agencies, working with consumer
   groups and interested industries, should consider how Internet-focused
   privacy initiatives those already taken, being contemplated, and being
   recommended by this Council might be applied to channels of commerce in
   the off-line world. Whether businesses are collecting data on-line or
   off-line (for example, product warranty cards, sweepstakes forms, and
   buyers clubs), or are marketing on-line or off-line (that is,
   telemarketing and direct mail), comparable standards could eliminate
   concerns about discrimination between industries that is. dealing with
   "privacy", not simply "Internet privacy." Regardless of any action
   government might take, we urge the off-line industries to review the
   data practices we are recommending and consider implementing them by
   their own initiative.

     6 The federal government should overhaul its current restrictions on
   the export of encryption technology, taking fully into account actual
   foreign availability of comparable technologies. For example, Netscapes
   Internet browser and e-mail application "Communicator" that
   incorporates 128-bit encryption technology may not be exported from the
   US to foreign consumers. Yet, using any of the popular Internet search
   engines, it takes only a few minutes to find foreign-based websites
   from which one can obtain free add-on software independently developed
   by foreign software developers that will augment Communicator so that
   it will have 128-bit encryption capabilities. This fact should justify
   eliminating the current ban on exporting the 128-bit version of
   Communicator, and a truly rigorous foreign availability review of
   encryption technology would support substantially broader deregulation.

                     CONSUMER PROTECTION RECOMMENDATIONS

   The "self-regulatory" model that is being discussed as an adjunct or
   alternative to government regulation generally describes businesses
   acting responsibly and industry associations providing "quality labels"
   and, if needed, private enforcement. However, "self-regulation" can
   also describe the approach that consumers should take that is,
   consumers "self-regulating" by learning about a seller before deciding
   to buy. This has been happening.

   Additionally, the Council has been pleased to see that state consumer
   protection agencies, working with the Federal Trade Commission and
   other federal law enforcement agencies, have deployed resources to
   fight Internet fraud. This is not to say that the challenges of
   operating in the digital world will be easily met. Undoubtedly,
   adjustments in operating methods will be necessary. And, when buyers
   and sellers may be separated by thousands of miles and even
   international borders, some problems will require international
   agreements, while others may be intractable. Additional resources may
   be justified to fund enforcement efforts. However, all indications to
   date suggest that state and federal enforcement agencies are determined
   to respond to consumers needs. Therefore, we have no specific
   recommendations to make in this area.

                         CALIFORNIA RECOMMENDATIONS

     1 California should continue its realistic approach to Internet
   regulation building on its record of moving quickly and responsibly to
   help e-commerce businesses and consumers in the Internet world.
   Already, California has enacted laws establishing open-technology
   guidelines for digital signatures^2, blocking discriminatory Internet
   taxes^3, outlawing Internet junk-mail (so-called "spam")^4, requiring
   state websites to post privacy notices^5, and extending the protections
   of general mail-order consumer rules to Internet sales^6. An example of
   Californias realistic approach is its recognition that some state
   legislative initiatives deal with Internet matters that ultimately can
   best be handled at the federal level; for example, recent state
   anti-spam legislation contains an explicit self-destruct provision
   triggered by enactment of comparable federal legislation. Normally, a
   state law only becomes inoperative if it is struck down by a court or
   is repealed.

     2 California should commence an industry-specific and agency-specific
   review of existing regulations to ensure that they do not discriminate
   against Internet-based businesses. This review should be carried out
   through a dialogue between the regulators and the regulated with full
   access and opportunities for input provided to interested consumers and
   its purpose should be to determine which regulations, or which parts of
   certain regulations, are no longer meaningful when applied to the
   online conduct of the business affected. Based on anecdotal evidence,
   it seems unlikely that a review of existing laws and regulations will
   require extensive resources, because it appears that relatively few
   existing state laws specifically impinge on e-commerce beyond the
   State's regulation of professionals. Therefore, reviews can generally
   be based on requests. Nevertheless, agencies should make it clear to
   the business community and the general public that they are open to
   input and will respond quickly.

     3 Government agencies in California should expand their use of the
   Internet to provide information to the public, and they should devise
   and deploy applications that allow individuals and businesses to submit
   documents and receive responses via the Internet with appropriate
   attention to privacy and security concerns. It should be emphasized
   that governments deployment of transaction-capable e-commerce offers
   particularly great promise to small businesses, for whom the proverbial
   "government red tape" is more than an annoyance it is very costly.

     4 California should continue to fund programs aggressively that
   expand the integrated use of, and access to, information technology
   throughout California's education system. As made clear by numerous
   expert study commissions, education is a building block of a sound
   economy, and this is especially true for high-tech businesses.

     5 California government websites should be rated for content, and
   carry appropriate electronic markings, under existing and developing
   content rating systems. Otherwise, children whose websurfing is being
   protected by filtering software may be blocked from accessing
   appropriate on-line government resources.

     6 State regulatory bodies should consider if interstate agreements
   combined with home-state licensing and discipline of certain businesses
   and professionals could effectively replace the current model in which
   each state requires licensing and performs its own enforcement. If
   California does not act, businesses and professionals licensed in other
   states such as attorneys and accountants will nevertheless make
   increasing use of the Internet to solicit business from, and perform
   services for, Californians. Under current regulatory schemes, they may
   well provide services to Californians without practical oversight or
   redress in California or their home states. If it is essential that a
   certain business or profession be regulated, then all of its
   practitioners providing services to Californians should operate under
   the same oversight system.
   ____________________________

   ^1 AB 1629,
   http://www.leginfo.ca.gov/pub/bill/asm/ab_1601-1650/ab_1629_bill_980928
   _chaptered.html; AB 1676
   http://www.leginfo.ca.gov/pub/bill/asm/ab_1651-1700/ab_1676_bill_980928
   _chaptered.html
   ^2 California Government Code, Section 16.5,
   http://www.ss.ca.gov/digsig/code165.htm; California Digital Signature
   Regulations, Final Text Approved By Office of Administrative Law on
   June 12, 1998, http://www.ss.ca.gov/digsig/regulations.htm.
   ^3 AB 1614,
   http://www.leginfo.ca.gov/pub/bill/asm/ab_1601-1650/ab_1614_bill_980824
   _chaptered.html
   ^4 See note 1, above.
   ^5 SB 1386,
   http://www.leginfo.ca.gov/pub/97-98/bill/sen/sb_1351-1400/sb_1386_bill_
   19980911_chaptered.html
   ^6 California Business and Professions Code, section 17538 (1996)
