http://cox.house.gov/press/releases/2002/01100loral.htm

                               [frameban.jpg]



                                                       Return to Home Page

                                                            About Rep. Cox
                                               Legislative Accomplishments
                                                            News and Views
                                                       Contacting Rep. Cox
                                                           At Your Service
                                                The House Policy Committee
                                                         The 47th District
                                              Rep. Cox's Television Report

   [en00500_.gif]-Submit
   Photo Gallery

                               [redcross.gif]
   The latest information on the War on Terrorism.
   [flagone.jpg] Order a Flag

                        Congress of the United States
                          House of Representatives
                            Washington, DC 20515
    Statement of U.S. Reps. Christopher Cox (R-CA) and Norm Dicks (D-WA)

                         Statement on Loral Penalty

   WASHINGTON (Thursday, January 10, 2002)--Rep. Christopher Cox (R-CA)
   and Rep. Norm Dicks (D-WA), the Chairman and Ranking Member of the
   House Select Committee on U.S. National Security and
   Military/Commercial Concerns with the People’s Republic of China,
   released the following statement in connection with the announcement of
   the record $14 million civil penalty imposed on Loral Space &
   Communications:

   We applaud the U.S. government’s decision to impose a record-high fine
   on Loral Space & Communications in connection with its transfer of
   sensitive technology to the People’s Republic of China. Loral’s actions
   constituted a serious breach of U.S. export controls.

   The unanimous and bipartisan report of the House Select Committee on
   U.S. National Security that extensively investigated this matter
   concluded that Loral “showed the PRC how to improve the design and
   reliability of the guidance system used in the PRC’s newest Long March
   rocket.” That advice, moreover, “may also be useful for design and
   improved reliability of elements of future PRC ballistic missiles.”

   The Select Committee also found unanimously that Loral acted without
   the legally required license for these technology transfers to the PRC,
   even though the corporation “knew that a license was required.”

   Loral, the investigation concluded, “deliberately acted without the
   legally required license, and violated U.S. export control laws.”

   This is the highest penalty ever paid under the Arms Export Control
   Act. The unprecedented magnitude of the fine imposed upon Loral
   pursuant to the settlement agreement is appropriate, given Loral’s 64
   alleged violations of the Arms Export Control Act and the International
   Traffic in Arms Regulations. The fine is nearly seven times the penalty
   assessed when China National Aero Technology Import and Export
   Corporation diverted McDonnell-Douglas machine tools to a PRC military
   factory.

   This steep fine and sobering result is another reminder that
   effectively preventing weapons proliferation requires vigilant
   enforcement of export controls on military technology. In a world where
   the United States is increasingly vulnerable to international
   terrorism, this is a challenge that Congress and the Administration
   must continue to meet with vigor.

                                    # # #

   Summary of Select Committee Findings Re: Loral and Hughes

   Details of Select Committee Investigation Re: Loral [Chapter 6 of
   Select Committee Report]
