http://www.cdva.ca.gov/calvet/eft.asp


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




   CDVA Home
   About us
   Cal-Vet Home Loans
   Veterans Homes
   Veterans Services
   Women Veterans
   Veterans Memorial
   Vets License Plates
   California Veterans Board
   Homes for Sale
   News from CDVA
   Employment Opportunities
   Links to Other Sites
   Site Map
   CDVA Seal and Link to CDVA Home Page



   Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT)
   Questions & Answers



   __________ search
      (*)  My CA


   Cal-Vet Loans


                  What do I need to do to sign up for EFT?
    It's simple. Just complete an application form, attach a voided check
   if you want the payment withdrawn from your checking account or provide
   the savings account number and the routing/American Banker Association
       number (ABA#) if you want the money withdrawn from your savings
                    account, and mail the information to:
    CDVA, Attn: Contract Services Unit, P. O. Box 942895, Sacramento, CA
                                 94295-0001.

      Do I need to fill out two separate applications if I have a Home
                              Improvement Loan?
    No, just enter the contract numbers for both your basic Cal-Vet Loan
                 and your Home Improvement Loan on the form.

   If I fill out the application, will I automatically be included in the
                                  program?
    No. Your account will be reviewed to determine that it is in current
      standing (not delinquent). If so, you will be sent a notification
    telling you that your application has been accepted, and when the EFT
    will become effective. You must continue to send your check until you
                receive notice of the effective date of EFT.

        Can I return the voided check and application to you by fax?
           No. We require original signatures on the application.

    If I sign up for EFT, will I continue to receive monthly statements?
    Yes, you will continue to receive monthly statements showing monthly
   account activity. However, you will not have to send in a check unless
        you want to pay an additional amount towards your principal.

       What if I want to make additional payment against my principal?
    You would need to send in a check for the amount with your statement
    stub, and include a note that the funds are to be applied towards the
                                 principal.

          When will the payment be withdrawn from my bank account?
   The payment will be withdrawn from your account on or about the 5th of
    each month. If the 5th occurs on a holiday or weekend, the withdrawal
             will occur on the first business day after the 5th.

                Once I sign up, how do I get off the program?
        Send in a written request to both Cal-Vet and your financial
                                institution.

          Can the Department cancel the EFT without my permission?
   Yes. The Department may automatically cancel your participation in the
       program if two consecutive payments are returned by your bank.

             Is there a monthly fee I must pay for this service?
    No. However, there may be fees charged if there are no funds at your
                        bank to cover the withdrawal.

                  Who should I contact if I have question?
    Contact the CDVA Contract Services Unit at 1-800-952-5626, or e-mail
                        them at loanserv@cdva.ca.gov.

                             Back to Top of Page
      2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
