http://courts.phila.gov/pdf/regs/2001/pjgcr2001-03.pdf

   FIRST JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA IN THE COURT OF COMMON PLEAS OF
   PHILADELPHIA COUNTY PRESIDENT JUDGE GENERAL COURT REGULATION NO.
   2001-03 In Re: Adoption of Philadelphia Rule of Civil Procedure No.
   7109.1 O R D E R AND NOW, this 16th day of November, 2001, the Board of
   Judges of Philadelphia County having voted at the Board of Judges'
   meeting held on November 15, 2001 to adopt Philadelphia Rule of Civil
   Procedure 7109.1, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Philadelphia Rule of Civil
   Procedure 7109.1, attached hereto, is adopted effective January 1,
   2002. This General Court Regulation is issued in accordance with
   Pa.R.Civ.P. No. 205.4, and shall become effective January 1, 2002. As
   required, the original General Court Regulation shall be filed with the
   Prothonotary in a Docket maintained for General Court Regulations
   issued by the President Judge of the Court of Common Pleas of
   Philadelphia County, and copies shall be submitted the Administrative
   Office of Pennsylvania Courts, the Legislative Reference Bureau and the
   Civil Procedural Rules Committee. Copies of the Order shall also be
   submitted to American Lawyer Media, The Legal Intelligencer, Jenkins
   Memorial Law Library, and the Law Library for the First Judicial
   District. /s/ FREDERICA A. MASSIAH-JACKSON
   _________________________________ FREDERICA A. MASSIAH-JACKSON
   PRESIDENT JUDGE, COURT OF COMMON PLEAS OF PHILADELPHIA COUNTY
   Phila.R.Civ.P.No. 7109.1 Electronic Filing of Mental Health
   Applications or Petitions (1) General Rule. (A) Except as otherwise
   provided by subsection (B) of this rule, parties shall file legal
   papers, including original process, with the Prothonotary by means of
   electronic filing in any civil mental health matter filed pursuant to
   the Mental Health Procedures Act of 1976, as amended, and the within
   rule. (B) Notwithstanding subsection (A), appeals to appellate courts
   filed from orders issued by the Court pursuant to Petitions for Review
   of certification orders issued by Mental Health Review Officers cannot
   be filed electronically, but must be filed with the Prothonotary in a
   paper format. (C) The filing party shall maintain the original paper
   copy of any legal paper that is electronically filed and shall file the
   original with the Prothonotary if requested pursuant to Pa.R.C.P. No.
   205.4(b)(2)(ii). (D) The Prothonotary shall not maintain a paper file
   of any legal papers filed electronically pursuant to this rule. (2)
   File Date. Acceptance By Prothonotary. The Prothonotary shall provide
   electronic access at all times; however, legal papers submitted
   electronically shall be deemed "filed" after they are reviewed and
   accepted by the Prothonotary. Electronically filed document will be
   reviewed and accepted for filing during normal business hours only. The
   Prothonotary shall electronically provide a filing status message to
   the filing party setting forth the "filed" date and time. Note A filing
   party accepts the risk that a document filed by means of electronic
   filing may not be properly or timely filed with the Prothonotary. See
   Pa.R.C.P. No. 205.4(e)(2). (3) Scheduling of Hearing. Upon filing of
   the application or petition, a hearing shall be scheduled consistent
   with the dictates of the Mental Health Procedures Act. (4) Service of
   Pleading and Scheduling Order. After the application or petition is
   verified and accepted and a hearing date scheduled, the Prothonotary
   shall notify all parties that the application was filed and is
   available, and further that a scheduling order was entered. This
   notification shall constitute service of the application or petition on
   all parties, and service of the scheduling order as required by
   Pa.R.C.P. No. 236. (5) Orders. Upon conclusion of the hearing, the
   Mental Health Review Officer shall enter an appropriate order
   electronically. An electronic copy of the order shall be e- mailed or
   made available electronically to all parties through the Mental Health
   Electronic Filing System. Participation in the Electronic Filing System
   and the electronic availability of the orders as provided herein shall
   constitute compliance with Pa.R.C.P. No. 236. (6) Website. The
   Prothonotary's web site, and the Mental Health System, may be found at
   the following website address: http://courts.phila.gov, or at such
   other site as may be designated from time to time. The Prothonotary
   shall provide electronic access at all times; however, the
   electronically filed document will be reviewed and accepted for filing
   during normal business hours only. The time and date of the filing and
   receipt shall be as set forth above. (7) Authorized Users. The Civil
   Mental Health Electronic Filing System shall be accessible to attorneys
   and other parties with the prior approval of the Prothonotary. An
   appropriate user name and password will be provided, and specific
   software may also be required. (8) Fees. The Prothonotary shall impose
   an automation fee of $5.00 per Mental Health Application or Petition
   filed, together with any other requisite filing fees. All Petitions and
   Applications not filed with the Prothonotary electronically after the
   implementation date of this rule shall be subject to both the
   automation fee and the requisite filing fee. The President Judge may
   waive all or any portion of the filing fee and automation fee. The
   funds generated by the automation fee shall be set aside by the
   Prothonotary and remitted monthly to the First Judicial District's
   Procurement Unit, and shall be used for, but not limited to, the
   development, training, implementation and maintenance of the electronic
   filing system for the Philadelphia Court of Common Pleas. The procedure
   for payment of the fees and costs of the Prothonotary shall be set
   forth on the Prothonotary's web site. Adopted by the Board of Judges of
   the Court of Common Pleas of Philadelphia County on November 15, 2001.
   Effective January 1, 2002.
