http://www.eldercare.gov/about.asp

   U.S. Administration on Aging About Eldercare Locator National Aging
   Network Eldercare Search
   Eldercare Locator -- Find Community Assistance for Seniors

   Thanks for visiting the site!

   Eldercare Locator Home | HHS Home

    You are here: Eldercare Locator Home Page > About Eldercare Locator
   Eldercare Search
   Elder person
   If you don't know where to start, the Eldercare Locator is the place to
   go

                              About Eldercare Locator

      The Eldercare Locator is a national toll-free directory assistance
      public service of the U.S. Administration on Aging that helps people
      locate aging services in every community throughout the United States.
      The primary goal of the service is to promote awareness of and improve
      access to state, area agency and local community aging programs and
      services. Since its inception in 1991, more than 660,000 calls been
      received from families, friends, caregivers, aging professionals and
      older persons seeking direction on where to begin to look for aging
      services and programs.

      The Eldercare Locator is absolutely FREE. There is no charge to use the
      service, and there is no charge for the information. Individuals
      calling this service or using the website have access to state and
      local information & referral service providers identified for every ZIP
      code in the country. Individuals calling the Eldercare Locator can
      connect to more extensive information sources for a variety of services
      including:


   Alzheimer's hotlines        Home delivered meals
      Transportation             Legal assistance
     Housing options    Adult day care and respite services
   Home health services      Long term care ombudsman

      The Eldercare Locator is administered by the National Association of
      Area Agencies on Aging (www.n4a.org) in cooperation with the National
      Association of State Units on Aging (www.nasua.org)

                Contacting the Eldercare Locator -- (800) 677-1116

      Normal Operations:  Call the Eldercare Locator toll free by dialing
      1(800) 677-1116. Monday thru Friday 9:00AM to 8:00PM(ET). For calls
      after normal hours of operation: After hours, a message recorder is
      available for the caller to leave a name and a telephone number._Calls
      will be returned the next business day.

      For TDD/TTY service:  Access the relay service at (202) 855-1234._ (To
      reach a live operator, dial (202) 855-1000.) Note: This is not a toll
      free call._ Instruct the Relay Operator to ask the Information
      Specialist to return the Relay Call.

      From outside the United States:  Dial Biospherics at (301) 419-3900._
      When the operator answers ("Biospherics"), ask for Ms. Dalgewicz. Note:
      This is not a toll free call.

                                 Updated: 11/16/01


       Select state and enter zip code
           [state]  Zip Code: _____
                    submit
   Need Help Finding Zip Codes? Click Here.

   Links to Other Resources

   Caregiver Resources
   arrow  Caregiver Internet Resources
   arrow  Alzheimer's Information

   Aging Resources
   arrow  AoA Website
   arrow  FirstGov for Seniors
   arrow  Long Term Care Ombudsmen Programs
   arrow  National Aging Information Center
   arrow  The National Center on Elder Abuse

    Call the Eldercare Locator at 1-800-677-1116

   Contact Info | Access Statement | Privacy
   Notice | FOIA | Disclaimer | Help
