http://mosaic.larc.nasa.gov/education/education.htm

                              Learning at LaRC


                   skip left nav NASA Logo
                                 Education Page
                                 Office of Education
                                 Office of Human Resources
                                 Kids Corner
                                 Home
                   Freedom of Information Act



   skip top nav About Us Research News and Events Education Images
   Business with LaRC Reports and Publications Site Index

   Education

   Enlightening Inquisitive Minds

      We involve the educational community in our endeavors to inspire
      America's students, create learning opportunities and enlighten
      inquisitive minds and communicate widely the content, relevancy and
      excitement of NASA's missions and discoveries to inspire and to
      increase understanding and the broad application of science and
      technology. -- NASA Strategic Plan
      NASA Langley is working to promote excellence in education by
      supporting science, mathematics, and technology education programs and
      activities for both students and teachers. NASA Langley's programs
      emphasize aeronautics, atmospheric sciences and space transportation
      technology. These activities and programs are designed to increase the
      awareness of the impact of science, mathematics, and technology on the
      quality of life in the 21st century, with the ultimate goal of
      stimulating interest in science and mathematics fields.

   Office of Education Programs

      The Office of Education offers a wide variety of programs for students
      and teachers at the elementary, secondary, undergraduate, graduate, and
      postdoctoral levels of study. At the K-12 level, many activities and
      resources are available for students and teachers, including the
      educational broadcast series, the NASA "Why?" Files and NASA CONNECT.
      At the undergraduate, graduate, and postdoctoral levels, The Office of
      Education offers numerous internships and fellowships for students and
      professors interested in research pertaining to Langley Research
      Center. To find out more about these and other programs available
      through NASA Langley, please visit the Office of Education web site by
      clicking on the link above.

   Office of Human Resources Programs

      The Langley Research Center Cooperative Education (Co-op) Program is
      designed to provide study-related work experience for 2 and 4-year
      college students who are pursuing degrees in fields related to Langley
      research. Through the program, Langley Research Center drives to
      acquaint students with its programs and to expand their academic
      training through work experience with NASA personnel. To learn more
      about the cooperative education programs, please visit the Office of
      Human Resources web site by clicking on the link above.
      The Volunteer Service Program is for college or university students
      interested in performing an internship without pay at Langley Research
      Center. For more information contact Gael Mohan Hawkins, Special
      Programs Coordinator at (757) 864-2527.

   Office of Equal Opportunity Programs

      Under a grant from NASA, three Historically Black Colleges and
      Universities participate in the NASA Scholars Program: Spelman
      College's "WISE" (Women in Science and Engineering) Program, Morehouse
      College's "Project SPACE" (Strategic Preparedness Advancing Careers in
      Engineering), and Florida A & M University's "IMAGE Program"
      (Increasing Minority Access to Graduate Engineering). The primary goal
      of the scholars program is to give high achieving students an
      opportunity to pursue undergraduate studies in engineering,
      mathematics, and the physical sciences. Students selected for the above
      programs receive scholarship awards up to five years to cover the cost
      of their undergraduate education and must participate annually in a
      ten-week paid summer internship at a NASA installation. Criteria for
      selection include: acceptance at one of the above colleges as entering
      freshmen, achieving a minimum score of 1000 on the SAT or a minimum
      score of 26 on the ACT, a minimum grade point average of 3.00, and a
      demonstrated interest in engineering, mathematics, and/or the physical
      sciences. For more information, contact Langley Research Center's
      Office of Equal Opportunity Programs at (757) 864-3289.
      Please feel free to explore the education sites available through other
      NASA Centers
   manditory area for keeping the table dimensions
   Research Section Aeronautics Earth Science Space Technology Structures
                                                               and Materials

   Privacy Statement | Feedback | Freedom of Information Act | 2003
   Centennial of Flight | Researcher News online | Language Assistance
   Plan (LAP)
   NASA Responsible Official: Cheryl Cleghorn | Page Curator: Bob Allen |
   Date Last Updated: 01/29/2002
