http://www.aac.va.gov/FAQs.htm


   Graphic - Default AAC Navigation Banner Image [Computer Monitor, CD] .
                                 AAC Home
                                 About Us
                                 Services
                                 Benefits
                                   FAQs
                                Contact Us
                              Austin, TX Info
                              Human Resources
                                   AACES
                                AAC Intranet
   (For Current  VA Customers)
                           Information Technology
   Conference (ITC)

                         Privacy/Security Statement
                        Freedom of Information Act
                                Disclaimer

            Graphic - VA Enterprise Centers - Participating Site
                       Graphic - Veterans Affairs Seal


   [Austin_star_banner_1.jpg]
Animated Graphic - Waving United States Flag

                                                                Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)

   Browse through our Frequently Asked Questions for more information on
   our services. If you have additional questions that are not listed,
   please contact us and we will be happy to assist you.

   What is meant by the term "franchise fund" and do Austin Automation
   Center (AAC) customers benefit from receiving IT-related services from
   AAC, a franchise fund?

     Franchise Funds were established in Government to promote
     competition and to reduce the cost of providing common
     administrative support services. Authorized under the Government
     Management Reform Act of 1994, the AAC is one of six VA Enterprise
     Centers offering common administrative services on a fee-for-service
     basis. No appropriated funding is provided franchise fund
     organizations, so the success of the AAC depends on our ability to
     fully recover costs from customer revenue, satisfy customer
     requirements, and to expand our customer base.

   How can AAC customers be certain they receive "best-value" IT solutions
   from AAC?

     AAC management believes that its customers should expect no less
     from AAC than the highest quality products and services at the most
     economical costs. Because of this commitment, AAC contracts with an
     industry professional performance measurement firm (usually every
     other year) to compare the cost efficiency and performance of AAC
     with similar data centers, public and private. Results of the FY
     1998 performance measurement assessment placed AACs competitive
     posture within the top third of commercial data centers with similar
     profiles. Comments from previous benchmarking studies are offered
     below

     * "...well-managed data center" - KPMG Best Data Center study
     * "...most efficient of data centers analyzed" - FEDSIM study
     * "...competitively postured" - Gartner
     * "...AAC's business model offers benefits over private sector
       providers" - KPMG AIP Assessment

   Does the AAC offer multiple processing platforms?

     We provide multiple platform options from stand alone workstations
     to large-capacity, redundant, clustered servers.

   Im interested in finding out more about AAC products and services. How
   can I get additional information?

     For more information about the AAC, please contact us at
     512.326.6014 or via email at dvac@mail.va.gov.

   With the current emphasis on government data security, how can I be
   sure that my data will be securely housed at the AAC?

     The AAC offers its customers "Total Information Assurance." All our
     data and applications are stored on secure servers in a secure
     environment using the latest intrusion detection systems and other
     security safeguards. Certified security professionals support our
     operations and security is regularly reviewed by a variety of
     recognized commercial and Federal information security specialists.

   How long has the AAC been in operation?

     The AAC has been the VAs corporate data center for about 35 years.
     Since entering the franchise fund pilot program in FY 1996, the AAC
     has expanded its business within the VA and other Federal agencies,
     including General Accounting Office, Federal Highway Administration
     and the National Archives and Records Administration.

   I work for a state/local government organization. Can we take advantage
   of the AACs services?

     Unfortunately, the AAC only services Federal clients.

   What is the VAs Information Technology Conference (ITC)? When is it
   held and am I eligible to attend?

     The ITC is the VAs premier information technology conference. It is
     held in Austin, Texas in August. The conference is open to all VA
     employees and Austin Automation Center customers. Detailed
     information is also available on AAC's intranet at vaww.va.gov/itc.
     Potential exhibitors may direct questions to
     bjfarabaugh.austin@vba.va.gov. General ITC questions may be directed
     to vaitc@mail.va.gov.

   I am a current customer of the AAC. I have forgotten/misplaced my
   Austin user id and/or password. Where can I get help?

     Please call or email the AAC customer support center (help desk) for
     assistance. They are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week at
     512.326.6780 or ahd@mail.va.gov.

   I am a current customer of the AAC. Where can I find specific
   information regarding an application run at the Center?

     The AAC maintains a large number of application intranet Web sites
     at vaww.aac.va.gov. Click on "site map" then "application sites" to
     find the application you are looking for. A current online version
     of the AAC Customer Information Guide may be accessed and downloaded
     from the AAC's intranet Web site.  The document provides information
     about the AAC's business and technical environment along with a
     description of customer applications processed at the AAC, the
     application points-of-contact, and respective phone numbers.  The
     AAC also offers comprehensive technical support at 512.326.6780 or
     ahd@mail.va.gov.

   What kind of training does the AAC offer for new users?

     Through the AACs intranet, AAC customers can access online training
     for S/390 tools, including signing on to timesharing, job control
     language, and performing file transfers (FTP). This training is
     available at vaww.aac.va.gov/operations/austin_info.asp. The AAC
     occasionally offers SAS training. Please visit
     vaww.aac.va.gov/sastraining/ for more information. The AAC customer
     support center (help desk) is also a great source of information.
     They are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week at 512.326.6780 or
     ahd@mail.va.gov.

   How can I find out about employment opportunities at the AAC?

     For employment and benefit information, please visit the Human
     Resources section of this site. In addition to traditional job
     openings, the HR pages explain the AACs student career program,
     where college and graduate students can work part time at the AAC
     while completing their degrees.

   Reviewed/Updated:
   December 11, 2001

       AAC Home   |  About the AAC  |  Benefits |  Services |  Contact
                             Us |  Austin TX Info
          Human Resources  |  AACES  |  AAC Intranet  |  Information
                            Technology Conference
          VA Enterprise Centers |  Privacy & Security  |  Freedom of
                        Information Act  |  Disclaimer
