http://www.nysb.uscourts.gov/pdf/Manhattan_summons.pdf

   United States Bankruptcy Court Southern District of New York In re
   Bankruptcy Case No. Debtor(s) Plaintiff(s) Adversary Proceeding No.
   Defendant(s) SUMMONS AND NOTICE OF PRETRIAL CONFERENCE IN AN ADVERSARY
   PROCEEDING YOU ARE SUMMONED and required to submit a motion or answer
   to the complaint which is attached to this summons to the clerk of the
   bankruptcy court within 30 days after the date of issuance of this
   summons, except that the United States and its offices and agencies
   shall submit a motion or answer to the complaint within 35 days, to:
   United States Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York One
   Bowling Green New York, New York 10004-1408 Page 1 of 4 At the same
   time, you must also serve a copy of the motion or answer upon the
   plaintiff's attorney. Name and Address of Plaintiff's Attorney: If you
   make a motion, your time to answer is governed by Bankruptcy Rule 7012.
   YOU ARE NOTIFIED that a pretrial conference of the proceeding commenced
   by the filing of the complaint will be held at the following time and
   place: United States Bankruptcy Court Room: Southern District of New
   York One Bowling Green New York, NY 10004-1408 Date and Time: IF YOU
   FAIL TO RESPOND TO THIS SUMMONS, YOUR FAILURE WILL BE DEEMED TO BE YOUR
   CONSENT TO ENTRY OF A JUDGMENT BY THE BANKRUPTCY COURT AND JUDGMENT BY
   DEFAULT MAY BE TAKEN AGAINST YOU FOR THE RELIEF DEMANDED IN THE
   COMPLAINT. /s/ Clerk of the Bankruptcy Court By: /s/ Date Deputy Clerk
   Page 2 of 4 CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE I, , certify that I am, and at all
   times during the service (name) of process was, not less than 18 years
   of age and not a party to the matter concerning which service of
   process was made. I further certify that the service of this summons
   and a copy of the complaint was made by: (date) Mail service: Regular,
   first class United States mail, postage fully prepaid, addressed to:
   Personal Service: By leaving the process with defendant or with an
   officer or agent of defendant at: Residence Service: By leaving the
   process with the following adult at: Publication: The defendant was
   served as follows: [Describe briefly] State Law: The defendant was
   served pursuant to the laws of the State of as follows: [Describe
   briefly] (name of state) Under penalty of perjury, I declare that the
   foregoing is true and correct. /s/ Date Signature Print Name Business
   Address City State Zip Page 3 of 4 NOTICE OF ELECTRONIC FILING
   PROCEDURE Case Name: Case Number: Date Filed: This adversary proceeding
   is docketed exclusively on the Court's Electronic Case Filing System.
   The system can be accessed via the Internet utilizing an attorney
   password. In compliance with Federal Rule of Civil Procedure Rule 11
   and in accordance with Local Bankruptcy Rule 9011-1, the attorney's
   password shall constitute the signature of the attorney. An original
   signed copy of the filing shall be maintained in the attorney's files.
   A chamber's copy of all filed documents is required and all parties
   with legal representation must file documents in accordance with the
   following: 1. The requirements for filing, viewing and retrieving case
   documents are: A personal computer running a standard platform such as
   Windows, Windows 95 or Macintosh; an Internet provider, Netscape
   Navigator software version 3.0 or higher and Adobe Exchange software to
   convert documents from a word processor format to a portable document
   format (PDF). The URL address is www.nysb.uscourts.gov and a password
   is needed to file documents on the system. If you are unable to comply
   with this requirement, then 2. You must submit documents on a diskette
   using PDF format. Adobe software provides this format. Further
   instruction may be found in Adobe's manual. Use a separate diskette for
   each filing. Submit the diskette in an envelope with the case name,
   case number, type and title of document, and the file name on the
   outside of the envelope. If you are unable to comply with this
   requirement, or requirement number 1, then 3. You must submit your
   documents on a diskette using one of the following formats: Word,
   WordPerfect, or DOS text (ASCII). If you are unable to comply with this
   requirement, or requirements 1 or 2, then 4. You must submit an
   affidavit of your inability to file in either of the above formats. You
   may then file conventionally on unstapled, unbound, single-sided paper.
   Include your affidavit with each filing. Guidelines for filing an
   adversary proceeding online and Step by Step Guides may be found on the
   court's home page at www.nysb.uscourts.gov and can be accessed without
   a password. For assistance, call (212) 668-2870 ext. 3522 or ext. 3920.
   To schedule training, call ext. 3580, Monday - Friday, 8:30 a.m. - 5:00
   p.m. New York time. Page 4 of 4
