http://atmos.jpl.nasa.gov/oms/board.htm


                                [brd_ttl.gif]

   This story board documents the chronology of events that occurred
   during a flight of the NASA Observations of the Middle Stratosphere
   (OMS) remote sensing payload on 8 July 1997 from Ft. Wainwright Army
   Base, Fairbanks, Alaska. Our goal is to deliver the payload to 90,000
   ft (about 17 miles) altitude so that the spectrometers can acquire data
   during sunrise of the following morning. These spectral measurements
   are used to infer the concentration vs. height of nearly two dozen
   stratospheric gases, including ozone.
   Most importantly, we must return the instruments safely to the ground
   since they are "one of a kind" research tools.
   The balloon launch and landing are carried out by personnel from the
   National Scientific Balloon Facility, based in Palestine, Texas.
   The total elapsed time between the first photograph and the landing
   shots was about 16 hours.


   crane.jpg (135467 bytes) Balloon gondola prior to flight. The
   gondola holds three scientific instruments: the JPL-MkIV infrared
   spectrometer, the JPL-in situ ozone photometer, and a ultra-violet
   spectrometer built by the Atmospheric Environment Service of Canada.
   The weight of the gondola and instruments is 1700 lbs. The
   high-tech, cardboard "crash pads" used to cushion the landing are
   visible on the bottom corners of the payload.  Ballast, used to
   adjust rates of descent and/or to keep the payload at constant float
   altitude, is contained in the device hanging bottom center from the
   payload.

   Photograph Taken By: Geoff Toon


   chase_plane.jpg (394084 bytes) Inflation of the balloon. A lot of
   helium is needed to deliver the 1700 lb payload to an altitude of
   90,000 ft. Although the helium bubble looks modestly sized at the
   ground, it expands to a sphere about 300 ft diameter (e.g, the size
   of a football field) in the sparse air of the stratosphere. The
   "reconnaissance plane" used to terminate the balloon flight is
   visible in the foreground.

   Photograph Taken By: Ross J. Salawitch


   release.jpg (315664 bytes) A moment before release. Proper layout
   direction of the helium bubble is critical for successful launch, so
   that prevailing winds will carry the bubble over the crane. The few
   seconds between untethering of the bubble and the release of the
   payload from the came are extremely tense.  Meteorologists on the
   NSBF staff determine the layout direction and whether local weather
   conditions are safe for launch.

   Photograph Taken By: Phil DeCola


   clouds.jpg (303592 bytes) Into the clouds. The OMS payload begins
   its ascent, through low lying clouds. This picture was taken about
   30 to 60 seconds after  release.  This is an unusual picture, as
   most launches occur on clear days.  The parachute that will deploy
   on descent is visible between the payload and the helium bubble.


   Photograph Taken By: Ross J. Salawitch


   trailer.jpg (456441 bytes) In the trailer. Scientists monitor the
   progress of the flight, and control their  instruments, via radio
   links. From right to left, Jean-Francois Blavier, Geoffrey C. Toon,
   and Bhaswar Sen of JPL at the controls of the MkIV Fourier Transform
   Infrared Spectrometer.


   Photograph Taken By: Ross J. Salawitch


   monitor.jpg (615549 bytes) Ozone monitor. The display shows the
   concentration of ozone (blue) and temperature (yellow) versus
   altitude. A characteristic temperature inversion (e.g., increasing
   temperature with rising altitude) is visible at the bottom of the
   stratosphere, precisely where the concentration of ozone begins to
   rise. This temperature inversion keeps stratospheric air isolated,
   or "stratified", from lower lying tropospheric air. These
   measurements were acquired during ascent by the JPL in situ ozone
   photometer and transmitted to the ground during flight (this
   photograph was taken while the balloon was at its "float altitude").

   Photograph Taken By: Ross J. Salawitch


   night.jpg (545113 bytes) Balloon at night. The high altitude balloon
   has an eerie appearance at midnight over Fairbanks. At
   mid-latitudes, the curvature of the Earth leads to a few minute time
   difference between sunset at the ground and sunset at 90,000 ft. At
   high latitudes during summer, the sun shines directly on objects at
   90,000 ft throughout the night because the Sun only drops a few
   degrees below the horizon (in other words, the balloon is high
   enough to "see the Sun" over the curvature of the Earth). The
   balloon was clearly visible to the naked eye, as an object larger
   than a planet but smaller than the  moon. This photograph was taken
   using a 200 mm lens and is comparable to the view from high-powered
   binoculars. Despite a lot of publicity prior to the balloon flight,
   the Fairbanks police received a number of calls reporting UFO
   sightings.

   Photograph Taken By: Ross J. Salawitch


   tear.jpg (224601 bytes) Termination. The balloon flight is
   terminated once scientific data have been obtained, or if the
   payload drifts towards either populated regions, large bodies of
   water, or in this case a mountain range. Although electronic means
   are used to track the payload, a reconnaissance plane is used for
   visual confirmation of the location. The flight is terminated by a
   command that initiates a small detonation, causing a cord to rip the
   mylar skin of the balloon. This rare photograph , taken from the
   airplane at about 15,000 ft altitude, shows the balloon just after
   the termination command was issued. The helium leaks out of the
   balloon rather slowly because the surrounding stratospheric air is
   at low pressure, about a factor of 50 less than the pressure at the
   ground (e.g., the surrounding air is doing little to "push" the
   helium out of the balloon).

   Photograph Taken By: Dean Peterson

   Click here to see our back up plan for bringing the balloon back to
   ground.



   chute0.jpg (285380 bytes) Initial descent. During initial descent,
   the parachute provides little resistance because the air pressure is
   too sparse. The descent rate is monitored closely by NSBF personnel.
   The mood is extremely tense during this stage of descent. Everyone
   awaits successful deployment of the parachute, which is revealed by
   a rapid drop in the fall rate once the balloon enters the lower
   atmosphere. This photograph shows the parachute before it has
   encountered sufficient air pressure to provide resistance to the
   fall.
   Photograph Taken By: Dean Peterson


   chute1.jpg (256483 bytes) Chute is open. A great sigh of relief
   occurrs when the parachute is known to have opened, as revealed to
   personnel on the ground by a sharp drop in the payload's rate of
   fall. The pilot and passenger of the reconnaissance plane had this
   view of the parachute as the payload descended through Earth's
   middle troposphere (about 20,000 ft altitude).


   Photograph Taken By: Dean Peterson


   chute2.jpg (674848 bytes) Almost down. The final phase of descent,
   showing the parachute and payload against the backdrop of the
   Alaskan Brooks Range mountains.  This particular flight was
   terminated a few minutes before final scientific data acquisition
   because the payload was approaching this mountain range, which would
   have complicated payload recovery.


   Photograph Taken By: Dean Peterson


   landing.jpg (795100 bytes) Landing zone. The reconnaissance plane
   watches the payload until it hits ground, assuring successful
   completion of the flight and noting surrounding landmarks for a
   helicopter that will ferry the payload, parachute, and balloon skin
   back to base. Note how close the payload landed to a nearby pond,
   which would have greatly complicated the recovery. The lush forest
   is typical of Alaskan summer, characterized by long periods of
   daylight, intermittent rain, and, for the summer of 1997, extremely
   warm conditions (highs in the mid-90s). There are many lakes in
   Alaska, so obtaining a "dry landing" is somewhat a matter of chance.

   Photograph Taken By: Dean Peterson


   upright.jpg (452628 bytes) Upright, intact, and dry. The gondola has
   landed upright, intact, and dry! Note the cardboard "crash pads"
   that have worked flawlessly to cushion the final impact. The gondola
   was returned to Ft. Wainwright Army Base by helicopter, and
   eventually to JPL via truck. The closed "window" on the gondola had
   been open during flight, one of several ports used to acquire
   scientific data. Subsequent examination of the payload showed no
   damage from impact. The parachute will be repacked and reused.

   Photograph Taken By: Geoff Toon


   Author: Ross J. Salawitch
   Page Design: Aaron B. Milam
