http://www.oar.noaa.gov/atmosphere/

                             NOAA Research logo

                               skip navigation
                         Atmosphere * Climate * Oceans
             Organization * Education * Newsroom * Search * Home
            Where Science Comes to Life...   Atmospheric Research
                                 hurricanes
                   thunderstorms and tornadoes, lightning
                      precipitation, hail, flash floods
                                winter storms
                                solar storms
                         air quality, air pollution
                            theoretical modeling
   forecast tools development, AWIPS, WDSS, models, algorithm development
     atmospheric data collection, radar, satellite, mobile laboratories,
           buoys, wind profilers Aeronomy Laboratory Thunderstorm
                          Air Resources Laboratory
            Atlantic Oceanographic and Meteorological Laboratory
                Climate Monitoring and Diagnostics Laboratory
                     Environmental Technology Laboratory
                         Forecast Systems Laboratory
                    Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory
                      National Severe Storms Laboratory
                   Pacific Marine Environmental Laboratory
                          Space Environment Center
                                   spacer


    [You are receiving this message because your browser does not support
     Java Script or you have Java Scripts disabled in your browser. The
    table below is provided as an alternative for display of information
    that would normally be seen on your monitor when you click on a topic
               or move your mouse over an organization link.]

                       AL   ARL AOML CMDL  ETL  FSL GFDL NSSL PMEL  SEC
        HURRICANES               Y         Y         Y    Y
       THUNDERSTORMS
      & TORNADOES                          Y    Y    Y
       PRECIPITATION        Y    Y         Y    Y    Y    Y    Y    Y
       WINTER STORMS                       Y    Y    Y    Y    Y
       SOLAR STORMS                                                 Y
        AIR QUALITY    Y    Y         Y    Y
        THEORETICAL
      MODELING         Y    Y    Y         Y    Y    Y    Y    Y    Y

      FORECAST TOOLS
      & DEVELOPMENT
                       Y    Y    Y              Y    Y    Y    Y
        ATMOSPHERIC
      DATA COLLECTION  Y    Y    Y    Y    Y    Y         Y    Y    Y

   P eople have been observing the weather for thousands of years. Yet
   little was understood about the complex atmospheric phenomena that
   create weather until fairly recently. Every day, NOAA scientists and
   their research partners are expanding the atmospheric body of
   knowledge, shedding new light on the processes that contribute to the
   worlds weather and developing new tools for predicting it. No one can
   prevent the weather, but greater understanding of it can help save
   lives and property throughout the world.

   NOAA Research organizations conduct basic and applied research on the
   upper and lower atmosphere as well as the space environment. Their
   findings form the basis for NOAAs contributions to major national and
   international environmental programs and agreements. For instance, the
   recent National Weather Service modernization is making use of NOAA
   research as evidenced by improvements in numerical modeling,
   information received from satellites and Doppler weather radars
   (NEXRAD) and sophisticated weather warning and display systems, all
   leading to improved severe weather forecasts and warnings.

   Other research programs focus on observation and study of the chemical
   and physical processes of the atmosphere, detecting the effects of
   pollution on those processes and monitoring and forecasting the
   phenomena affecting the Sun-Earth environment.

   Defying Benjamin Franklins statement that everyone complains about the
   weather but no one does anything about it, NOAA scientists are
   revolutionizing our understanding of the restless ocean of air
   surrounding our planet.

   blueline
   atmosphere | climate | oceans
   organization | education | newsroom | search | home
