http://crapo.senate.gov/pressreleases/2001/December/pr12112001.htm

   [USEMAP:flag_front_page_contents.jpg]

                                 [crapo.gif]

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

                                                                 CONTACTS:      Susan Wheeler

                                                                               (202) 224-5150
December 11, 2001

                                                                              Lindsay Nothern

                                                                               (208) 334-1776

                PROCEDURAL VOTE TABLES CRAPO DAIRY AMENDMENT

      Efforts continue to remove national dairy program from Farm Bill


   Washington, DC - An amendment proposed by Idaho Senator Mike Crapo to
   strike the national dairy program was narrowly defeated on a procedural
   vote in the U.S. Senate this afternoon. However, Crapo is working to
   bring up the issue again before final consideration of the S. 1731, the
   Farm Bill. The Senate voted 51 to 47 to table Crapo's amendment, which
   would have removed the newly created subsidy program for the dairy
   industry and replaced it with a study on the impacts of federal dairy
   policy on farmers and consumers.

   After the debate, Crapo said, "The proposed national dairy program is
   nothing more than a new government subsidy. It takes a relatively
   healthy domestic industry and forces $2 billion in government spending
   that will reduce overall farm income. Floor debate is continuing over
   the Farm Bill, and we will continue to explore other options to reduce
   or eliminate the program as it is currently proposed."

   In describing the detrimental effects of the bill during floor debate,
   Crapo used the example of nonfat dry milk, which is currently being
   purchased by the federal government under a price support program. The
   USDA purchased over 20 million pounds just last week bringing its
   inventories to 65 million pounds--nearly a year's worth of U.S.
   production and far more than the USDA can use over the next several
   years. Crapo said, "The increased supply and decreased prices that will
   result from this proposal will lead to more government purchases and
   more cost to the taxpayer. What will happen when the $2 billion is
   expended? Market prices will be down due to a glut, and producers will
   actually need these payments in the future. A dependency will have been
   created, making our producers reliant on federal payments leading to a
   vicious cycle or more payments in the future and increased debates in
   Congress about whether to continue a subsidy program that we didn't
   need to establish in the first place."

                                    # # #

      This page was updated on 01/07/2002 .  Contact Webmaster with any
                           comments or suggestions
