http://tvdg10.phy.bnl.gov/IntroToTVDG.html

              Introduction to the Tandem Van de Graaff Facility

   Welcome to the Tandem Van de Graaff Facility at Brookhaven National
   Laboratory! The purpose of the attached information is to aid you in
   conducting your work in a safe and productive manner. A list of contact
   persons is included at the end of this document. Please keep it handy
   and refer to it as needed.

   Two Tandem Van de Graaff (TVDG) Accelerators and associated support
   equipment are contained in Building 901A. This building also contains
   offices for the personnel of the Tandem Operations Group, a group
   within the Collider Accelerator (C-A) Department.  The Advanced
   Accelerator Group, a group within the Physics Department, also has
   office and laboratory space in the building. The unique safety and
   administrative concerns relating to the operation of the accelerators
   have made it advantageous to have a safety organization, safety
   policies and regulations that are specific to Building 901A and the
   associated TTB (Tandem to Booster) tunnel and power supply houses
   (Buildings 907, 908, 909 and 941).  All building occupants, regardless
   of whether they are associated with the accelerators, are subject to
   these regulations.

   Please familiarize yourself with the procedures contained in this
   document that are applicable to the location and your type of work. You
   will also find additional information and updates on our web page
   http://www.tvdg.bnl.gov/index.html that also has links to the C-A and
   other BNL information. We hope your stay at Brookhaven is a safe and
   productive one!

   James Alessi, Group Leader, Operations and Development

                             Safety Information

   The policy of the Laboratory is to protect the environment and to
   provide a safe and healthy workplace for all employees, guests,
   visitors, and contractors. As a new member of, or visitor to, the
   Tandem Van de Graaff, you should be aware that there are safety
   procedures that must be followed. These policies are outlined in the
   Employees' Handbook, the BNL ES&H Standards the C-A Operations
   Procedure Manual (OPM),. Copies of the latter two documents are
   available in the Tandem Control Room and in the Department Library.

   Safety Organization

   The responsibilities of the people in the department safety
   organization are detailed below.  The individuals currently holding
   these titles are listed at the end of this document. The Tandem Van de
   Graaff Directory for Building 901A and the C-A Directory, included at
   the end of this document, identifies the individuals who have ES&H
   (Environmental Safety and Health) responsibilities within this
   building. Should you have any safety related questions or be uncertain
   as to whether your project requires review by the Department ES&H
   Committee, please contact your Group Leader, the Department ES&H
   Coordinators, the Tandem Advisory Committee or any member of the
   Department ES&H Committee.

   The C-A Department Associate Chairman for Safety oversees and reviews
       all aspects of safety in the Department.
       The C-A Department Safety Section Head oversees Health
       Physics/Industrial Hygiene, Documentation and Training, Quality
       Assurance, Safety Engineering, Safety Systems, and Environmental
       Waste Management.
       The Department Environmental Safety & Health Committee provides
       assistance and advice on safety. This Committee is comprised of the
       membership of the following C-A Safety Committees and others as
       designated by the Department Chairman: Radiation Safety,
       Experimental Safety Review, Accelerator Systems Safety Review,
       ALARA (As Low As Reasonably Achievable), Safety Inspection, and C-A
       ES&H Services Representative.
       Group Leaders advise the ES&H Committee of new projects or
       potential problem areas which could require a safety review. Group
       Leaders have the responsibility to inform the Committee of any
       hazardous equipment or chemicals brought to the Laboratory by their
       collaborators. It is the responsibility of employees and guests to
       advise their Group Leader of the need for this equipment/chemical
       before bringing it on site.
       ES&H Coordinators  The Department ES&H Coordinators provide liaison
       between the ES&H Services and Occupational Medicine Divisions and
       the Department Chairman. The coordinators are responsible for
       implementing safety policy and procedures and ensuring that the
       Department is in compliance with Laboratory and DOE policy as well
       as with county and state regulations.
       The Tandem Advisory Committee provides advice to the Group Leader
       and Tandem personnel on all safety issues, conducts a monthly
       meeting where safety issues are discussed, tracked and brought to
       resolution.

   Training
   You are required to attend all training applicable to your work at the
   Laboratory. All BNL employees and guests are required to attend General
   Employees Training (GET) before they begin work. Hazard Communication
   (HazCom) Training is required for all C-A Department employees and
   guests whose work is not strictly confined to offices. Users of the
   Tandem Facility receive a site-specific training that includes site
   wide and local emergency signals and procedures. Hazard Communication
   Training is also required for employees and guests of other departments
   who work in laboratories and shops in Building 901A. Your supervisor,
   based on your job responsibilities, sets additional training
   requirements.  Specific BNL Certification is required for entrance or
   work in radiation or radiation controlled areas and for operation of
   cranes, forklifts and machine shop equipment. Some laser and electrical
   work also requires specific training. The Department Training
   Coordinator or the Training Office (Room A-128 in Building 911A) can
   provide you with additional information about training.

   You can access your training record at
   http://www2.sep.bnl.gov/esh_train/dbquery.htm. You can see a schedule
   and register for courses at http://www.esh.bnl.gov/ESH_Training/ or by
   calling x4151.

   Quality Assurance
   Experimental work in the C-A Department involves all aspects of the
   Quality Assurance (QA) Program.  The QA responsibilities of managers of
   Department activities, (i.e. group leaders, experiment spokespeople,
   chief engineers) consist primarily of determining what QA procedures
   apply and maintaining documentation on the execution of those
   procedures. The Department Designated Quality Assurance Representative
   (DQAR) provides assistance with QA related issues.

   Building Access and Security
   All exterior doors to Building 901A are kept locked except between
   8:30am and 5:00pm on regular work days.  After hours, accelerator
   operators will respond to the doorbell at the main entrance when they
   are present in the building.  Personnel who require access to the
   building after hours may be issued keys.  Exterior doors to the
   building should NEVER be blocked open to allow access.  Anyone who
   finds doors blocked open after hours should close them and inform the
   Building Manager or the Operator-in-charge.

   Many signs provide information about building rules and hazards.
   Individuals are expected to comply with the instructions on all signs.
   Anyone who cannot read and understand signs must be escorted while in
   the building. Individuals who might require assistance in responding to
   emergency alarms or to instructions from the building PA system should
   notify the Operator-in-Charge in the Control Room upon initial entry to
   the building.

   Safety-Related Signs
   Individuals are responsible for posting temporary, non-radiological,
   safety-related signs in their work areas whenever training, supervisory
   instruction or common sense indicates that such posting is necessary.
   Temporary signs should be signed and dated or some other means of
   determining the reason for and origin of the posting should be
   provided.

   Individuals are responsible for obeying all signs.  If an individual
   believes that an area has been posted unnecessarily, the ES&H
   Coordinator should be informed.  The ES&H Coordinator should then
   evaluate the need for the sign and may remove it if it is found to be
   inappropriate.

   Use of Equipment
   Operation of some equipment requires training by Tandem Operations
   Group personnel. Equipment and the individual responsible for in-house
   training is listed below.

         Equipment

                                     Responsible Individual

         Machine shop                Pete Heilig pheilig@bnl.gov
         Overhead cranes             Harry Hacker  haccobra@bnl.gov
         Forklift                    Hans Abendroth  hansa@bnl.gov
         SEU Facility                Vladimir Zajic  vzajic@bnl.gov
         Whatman Nuclepore Facility  Mike Zarcone  zarcone@bnl.gov

   Additional training by ES&H Services may also be necessary. Each Target
   Room and Laboratory  is posted with the type of work that can be
   performed in that area. Depending on the level of training and
   permission, a person may be authorized to perform specific work or may
   be limited to observing work that is carried on. The types of training
   for different groups in 901A are listed below.

   Authorized Worker Training

   Users Required GERT or Radiological Worker I or II
   As Needed Electrical Safety I, Compressed Gas, Hazard Communications,
   Activation, Laser, Lockout/Tagout
   Tandem
   Personnel Required Radiological Worker I or II
   As Needed Electrical Safety I, Lockout/Tagout, Crane, Fork Lift,
   Compressed Gas, Cryogenic Safety,  Hazard Communications, Activation,
   Contamination, C-A Working Hot, Laser, Confined Space
   Other BNL
   Personnel Required GERT or Radiological Worker I or II
   As Needed  Specific for type of work

   Two-Man Rule
   There are many areas of the building that may have potentially
   hazardous conditions present, such as rotating machinery, electrical
   shock hazard, radiation hazard or the presence of insulating gas
   (asphyxiation hazard).  These areas include the Accelerator Rooms,
   Target Rooms 1, 2, 3, and 4, the Mechanical Equipment Room, the
   Electrical Equipment Room (except for the office area), Lab. 0, Lab 2,
   the Ion Source Lab and the Basement Equipment Room.  When working alone
   in one of these areas, especially during hours other than the normal
   workday, another person, preferably one of the operations staff, should
   be notified of your presence in the area.  This person should again be
   notified on completion of the work.  If for any reason there should be
   only one person in the building, he or she will under no circumstances
   enter the areas listed above.

   There are also accelerator-related procedures that require the presence
   of one or more additional people.  The Operations Supervisor is
   responsible for training the Operations staff in these procedures.

   There are other situations for which BNL ES&H regulations require the
   presence of additional personnel.  The BNL ES&H Standard should be
   consulted and followed whenever hazardous work is to be performed.

   Training Office
   The Tandem Operations Personnel handle local training for Users and
   other visitors. Those requiring training other than General Employees
   Radiological Training (GERT) can get information in the Department
   Training Office located in Room A-128 of Building 911A. You can go to
   the office or call x4772 if you have a question about training.

   Radiological Information
   It is of primary importance that radiological regulations be followed
   TO THE LETTER. Radiological regulations are federal laws; BNL is
   responsible for keeping track of all infractions. Serious single
   violations or repeated minor violations have resulted in substantial
   fines being paid by BNL. Individuals responsible for serious, willful
   violations have been barred from site.  It is even possible that
   violators could be prosecuted.

   To enter an area with yellow and magenta radiological signs you must
   have the appropriate BNL radiological training or someone with that
   training must continuously escort you. Thermoluminescent Dosimeters,
   TLDs, (also known as radiation or film badges) are required for entry
   into areas marked TLD required.

   The Department is required to maintain an inventory of radioactive
   sources.  Notify the Operations Supervisor, ES&H Coordinator, or the
   ES&H Services Technician/Representative before bringing any source into
   the department.

   If you have any questions on radiological regulations or radiation dose
   rates, or if you wish to be certain that a task is being conducted in a
   manner to assure that As Low As Reasonably Achievable (ALARA)
   Guidelines are maintained, contact the ALARA Coordinator.

   PRICE ANDERSON ACT (PAA)
   It is important to make you aware of the absolute requirement to follow
   all radiation safety rules at C-A facilities. Federal law (PAA)
   provides for criminal and monetary penalties if you do not follow the
   rules fully. Persons have been the subject of criminal investigations
   when found to willfully remove a radiation barrier. Thus, we request
   that you pay particular attention to the radiation safety rules that
   follow.

   Are Users accepting additional legal liabilities when signing TLD
   release-forms or similar douments related to compliance with
   radiation-safety rules? The short answer is that the User incurs no
   personal liability under the provisions of the Act unless he/she
   intentionally acts to violate the radiation safety rules.

   The Price-Anderson Act sets up a regulatory scheme for enforcement of
   radiation safety rules, including radiation protection standards (10
   CFR 835). Failure to comply with those rules, or to identify and report
   a non-compliance to DOE, subjects the Laboratory (not a User) to an
   enforcement action. This could include a legal Notice of Violation and
   a civil penalty up to $100,000 per violation.

   When signing documents related to radiation safety, a User is
   essentially confirming that he/she has done his/her assigned experiment
   according to the rules. The signature does not mean that the User is
   guaranteeing that the experiment will be carried out perfectly or that
   there is no potential for a violation. It does mean that the User is
   performing his/her duties to the best of their ability and has made a
   good faith effort to comply with the radiation safety rules. A "good
   faith effort to comply with the rules" means that the User has
   familiarized him/herself with the requirements of regulations that fall
   within his/her area of responsibility. Having done so, he/she should he
   in a position to approve/sign off on procedures or training to carry
   out work involving radiation safety.

   Radiation Safety System
   Entry into any Controlled Areas (areas that are monitored and
   controlled for radiation safety purposes) requires one of the
   following:
     General Employee Radiation Training (GERT),
     Radiation Worker I. (RWI.), or
     Escort by a person who is trained with GERT or RWI.

   Those trained with GERT or RWI. can receive a TLD (Thermoluminescent
   Dosimeter), a radiation badge that is replaced and monitored monthly.
   Users, non-BNL employees who use the applied facilities, do not receive
   a permanent badge but are issued one temporarily when they work in the
   Controlled Areas. TLD use is covered in the training sessions. Users
   are required to complete BNLs General Employees Radiological Training
   (GERT) once every two years. The training can be obtained by reading
   the GERT Study Guide and passing a ten question multiple-choice test.
   The test is based on course objectives listed on the first page of the
   Study Guide. Retraining is provided if anyone fails the test. Users and
   visitors, trained with GERT at the Tandem Van de Graaff may only use
   their TLD at the Tandem Van de Graaff. Entrance to any other
   radiologically controlled areas at BNL requires additional training.

   A person working at the C-A must attend C-A User Training  or pass a
   challenge exam before each running period and must have valid
   Radiological Worker 1 Training.

   The local board for the TLDs is located in the main corridor outside
   the Control Room. The badges should be placed on the board when
   temporarily leaving the building but should be turned in to one of the
   Control Room Operators when the current experimentation period is at an
   end.

   In Building 901A, the Controlled Areas are the two Accelerator Rooms
   and the four Target Rooms. Controlled Areas may change at any time.
   Personnel are required to check the postings for Accelerator Rooms,
   Target Rooms, and laboratories before entering.  The conditions and
   additional radiation safety messages are posted at the entryways to any
   of the Controlled Areas. The Controlled Areas can be made ?Exclusion
   Zones where personnel are locked out of the area when a known radiation
   hazard will be present. When these areas are not 'Exclusion Zones they
   can be entered by those with proper training and TLDs and those they
   are escorting. Under these conditions the Radiation Safety System will
   automatically interrupt the beam should the radiation level become
   excessive (See the Tandem Safety Analysis Document, SAD, Section
   4.1.1).   Entry into these areas is for official business only. There
   are radiation monitors in the areas that will signal the presence of
   radiation to the people in the Controlled Area.

   In the Target Rooms there are amber beacons that will light and rotate.
   People in these areas must immediately exit the area when these signals
   become active. The operators in the Control Room also are advised of
   this condition through the Radiation Monitoring System and will ensure
   proper response.

   Entry into the Accelerator Room additionally requires permission of the
   Operator-In-Charge (OIC). The OIC will make sure the persons entering
   the Accelerator Room are properly informed of the safety and interlock
   systems and the current conditions that may affect safety. There are
   radiation monitors in these areas that will signal the presence of
   radiation. In the Accelerator Rooms there are amber beacons and red
   beacons that will light and rotate. People in these areas must
   immediately exit the area when these signals become active unless they
   have specific permits and permission to work under these conditions.
   The operators in the Control Room also are advised of this condition
   through the Radiation Monitoring System display and will ensure proper
   response.

   The complete description of the Tandem Radiation Safety System can be
   found in the Safety Analysis Document (SAD) section 4.1.1 Radiation
   Safety and Access Control System.

   Chemical Information
   Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDSs) are available for all materials
   used at the Laboratory and can be found at
   http://www.esh.bnl.gov/cms/msds_query.htm If you need assistance in
   accessing MSDSs, you should contact the ES&H Coordinator.

   BNL maintains a site-wide chemical inventory with all chemicals ordered
   through BNL are bar coded on arrival. You must notify the Operations
   Supervisor, ES&H Coordinator or the Health Physics Office before you
   bring chemicals or hazardous materials on site so that your plans to
   use them can be reviewed and the containers can be bar coded.  When you
   empty a bar-coded container, you must remove the bar code and affix it
   to an inventory form. These forms are available in the ES&H
   Coordinators Office.

   STOP WORK Responsibility
   C-A management encourages all Users to identify environmental, safety
   or health (ES&H) problems and to suggest improvements. If any condition
   or practice presents an immediate hazard that could reasonably be
   expected to cause serious injury or environmental harm, then you must
   stop work until effective corrective action is taken.

   The procedure for reporting ES&H concerns is to bring them to the
   attention of the Group Leader immediately. If you feel issues are not
   being addressed, then report it directly to the C-A Department Chair.

   If a job is stopped as an imminent hazard, it may not be restarted
   without the authorization of the C-A Department Chair or his designate
   (C-A Associate Chair for Safety, Division Head, C-A Safety Section
   Head). Examples of imminent hazards include but are not limited to:

   Work in confined spaces without following confined space entry
   requirements

   Work on elevated areas without fall protection

   Working hot on electrical systems without proper working-hot controls

   Heat source near combustible material

   Work which may result in uncontrolled release of toxic, radioactive or
   flammable liquids

   Failure to comply with radiation control or security barrier

   Lockout/Tagout violations

   Unsecured cylinders or unsecured heavy equipment on moving vehicle

   Unprotected work around Class III and Class IV Lasers

   Personal Protective Equipment
   Your work may require safety shoes, glasses, lab coats, hardhats, etc.
   Use of personal protective equipment is required, not optional.

   A voucher for safety shoes and glasses can be obtained from the
   Department Secretary. The ES&H Coordinator must sign the form and you
   must provide an account number for payment.

   Minors/Children
   Unsupervised children are not allowed in C-A Department areas.

   The Department Chair must specifically approve work by minors (those
   under 18 years old). Minors/children are not allowed in radiologically
   Controlled Areas, machine shops, or any other area with significant
   hazards except with explicit approval from the Department Chair. Other
   approvals may be necessary as well.  Contact the ES&H Coordinator for
   additional information.

   User Questionnaire/Activity Sheets/Experimental Safety Review
   Prior to arriving at BNL, Users of the SEU or Film Irradiation
   Facilities must complete a User Questionnaire that covers operating
   conditions and use of hazardous substances. The questionnaire must be
   returned so that any evaluation, formal review and mitigation of
   hazards can occur before beam time.

   If you are responsible for a new activity, you must obtain an Activity
   Sheet from the ES&H Coordinators Office.  Complete the sheet, post a
   copy on the door of your work area, and return a copy to the ES&H
   Coordinator.  He/she will determine whether the activity requires
   additional review before it can proceed.

   Experimental safety review takes time! To avoid delay in your project,
   inform the Group Leader, Operations Supervisor or ES&H Coordinator of
   your plans well in advance.

   EMERGENCY PROCEDURES
   It is necessary for all building personnel to be familiar with the
   following information about how to respond to emergencies and to alarms
   so that they can protect themselves, their co-workers and emergency
   response personnel.

   Discovering an Emergency
   If a building occupant is aware of an emergency in the building, he
   should:
       Initiate an alarm by doing one of the following.
           Pulling the nearest fire alarm box.  This will result in the
   fastest response by the Laboratory Emergency Force.  The alarm boxes
   may  be used for any type of emergency.  However, the alarm boxes in
   the Control Room, the Electrical Equipment Room, and the corridor by
   the Control Room door activate the Halon system.  Therefore, they
   should be used only for fires in those areas.  A backup call should be
   made to 911 or 2222 after any alarm box is pulled.

           Calling 911 or 2222 and reporting the type of emergency and its
   location.

           Pushing one of the "Emergency Stop" buttons located in the
   Accelerator Rooms and Target Rooms.  This will result in an immediate
   call to 911 or 2222 by the operator on duty as well as a shutdown of
   certain accelerator functions.  It is not the preferred response to an
   emergency except in cases where immediate shutdown of the machine or
   local exclusion of the beam is desirable.

       Warn others in the immediate area. The building P.A. system may be
   used to notify building occupants of an emergency or to give
   instructions.  It does not currently extend to the portion of the
   building occupied by the Advanced Accelerator Group.

       Notify the Local Emergency Coordinator.

       Initiate emergency steps to identify, isolate or control the source
   of the emergency if he has been trained in the action and only if there
   is no risk to anyone.

   RESPONSE TO EMERGENCY SIGNALS

   SITE-WIDE: Should an emergency at the Laboratory occur requiring site
   wide evacuation the following emergency evacuation procedures are to be
   followed:

       CONTINUOUS SIREN
   Continuous sounding of the BNL siren for 5 minutes calls for all
   non-emergency personnel to report to the designated Assembly Area
   (Control Room in 901A) and await further instructions. Personnel in TTB
   should leave the tunnel by the nearest normal exit and proceed to the
   assembly area of Building 901A or of any major building.  Personnel in
   the Power Supply Houses should proceed to the assembly area of Building
   901A or of any major building.

       INTERMITTENT SIREN
   Intermittent sounding of the BNL siren for 5 minutes signals that all
   employees shall evacuate the Laboratory site immediately.  Building
   901A is in Evacuation Zone 1.

   (Note: The laboratory tests the site sirens every Monday at 12 Noon.)

   EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS
   The Plectron (an emergency communications device) is located in the
   TVDG Control Room.  The Local Emergency Coordinator is responsible for
   carrying out instructions from the Plectron and for relocating it
   during an emergency, if necessary. The telephone number for emergency
   communications is x4581.  It is continuously monitored during normal
   working hours.

   BUILDING: An emergency in Building 901A is indicated by the sounding of
   Local Emergency signals.

       LOCAL WARNING SIGNAL
       CONTINUOUS ringing of bell. Check to be sure you are not in danger.
   Evacuation is not required if there is no danger in your vicinity.

       LOCAL EVACUATION SIGNAL
       INTERMITTENT ringing of local fire alarm bells and/or announcement
   via building P.A. system.  All persons shall immediately leave the area
   by the nearest exit and proceed without delay to the lawn areas to the
   East and West of the main entrance to Building 901A along Cornell
   Avenue.

   SMOKING POLICY
   SMOKING IS PROHIBITED IN ALL LABORATORY BUILDINGS AND VEHICLES. The
   only exceptions are the residential units and the smoking section of
   the Brookhaven Center Club.

   Occurrence Reporting
   BNL is required by DOE regulation to report occurrences that have an
   adverse impact on the safety or environment of our workplace and events
   that result in significant damage, property loss, or downtime. This
   requires you, as an employee, to report such occurrences to your
   supervisor, Department management or ES&H Services within 2 hours of
   the event. This also applies to weekends and holidays. More information
   is listed in the ES&H Standard 1.1.0.

   As a rule of thumb, you should immediately report to your supervisor or
   to department management any significant event.  These events could
   include injury, accident, breach of rules, significant equipment
   malfunction, loss or damage.

   Occurrences to be reported include:
   1.  Release of radioactive or hazardous materials (e.g. oil, gasoline,
   chemicals) into the air, sewer or land.
   2.  Internal or external threats to safety, security, environmental or
   health protection, or the ability of a facility to operate (e.g. bomb
   threats, water leak with potential serious equipment damage)
   3. Degradation of environmental, safety, security, or health conditions
   (e.g. malfunction in a radiation monitor or fire alarm)
   4.  Personnel injury or significant lost workdays;
   5.  Personnel contamination, assimilation, or exposure;
   6.  Onsite or offsite contamination of hazardous or radioactive
   materials
   7.  Violation of safety, environmental, or health administrative
   limits; (e.g. radiation exposure above the departments administrative
   control limit of 100 mRem per day or up to 200 mRem per day with first
   line supervisor authority on a  Radiation Work Permit )
   8.  Operational procedural violations, including maintenance and
   administrative procedures which have the potential to impact the
   safety, security, environmental or health performance or operation of a
   facility;   (e.g. Unsafe use of a crane or forklift)
   9.  Identification of actual or potential defective items, materials,
   or services, including defects identified by subcontractors and
   suppliers, that could impose a substantial safety hazard (e.g.
   counterfeit parts resulting in a dangerous condition)
   10. Unanticipated significant delay or cost in achieving programmatic
   objectives;
   11. Loss or damage to property caused by DOE operations or loss or
   damage to DOE property (e.g. Theft, vandalism)


                                 Directories

                 Directory  Service    Contact  Email Phone
   C-A
   Department Chairman D. I. Lowenstein lowenstein@bnl.gov
   Deputy Chairman W. T. Weng weng@bnl.gov 2135
   Associate Chair for Safety E. Lessard lessard@bnl.gov 4250
   Training Coordinator John Maraviglia maraviglia@bnl.gov
   Training Office Letesha Smith letesha@bnl.gov 4772
   Environmental and Waste Management Pete Stillman
   pstillman@bnldag.bnl.gov 7520 Pager 4234
   ES&H Coordinator Asher Etkin etkin@bnl.gov 3271 Pager 4210
   ES&H Services Representatives Charles Schaefer schaefe1@bnl.gov 4660
   Health Physics Office Greg Herman herman@bnl.gov 5528
   Quality Assurance Rep. (DQAR) Dave Passarello passare1@bnl.gov 7277
   Pager 7238
   Tandem
   Van de Graaff Group Leader Jim Alessi alessi1@bnl.gov 7563
   Liason Physicist Chris Gardner gardner@bnl.gov 4537
   Group Leader Peter Thieberger pt@bnl.gov 4004
   Operations Supervisor Chuck Carlson ccarlson@bnl.gov 5261 Pager 5604
   Building Manager, 901A Chuck Carlson ccarlson@bnl.gov 5261 Pager 5604
   Chief Electrical Engineer  Mike Wiplich mwiplich@bnl.gov  5468
   Chief Mechanical Engineer Louis Snydstrup snydstrup@bnl.gov 7222
   Control Room Hans Abendroth hansa@bnl.gov 4581/4584
   Group Secretary Sandy Asselta sandylee@bnl.gov 4550
   Quality Assurance Rep. (DQAR) Irv Feigenbaum irvlf@worldnet.att.net
   4559
   TLD/Health Physics Office Services
   Advanced
   Accelerator Group Group Leader Robert Palmer palmer@bnl.gov
   Group Safety Supervisor Harold Kirk kirk1@bnl.gov 3780
   Individuals With
   ES&H Responsibilities
   For The Entire Building ALARA Coordinator Chuck Carlson
   ccarlson@bnl.gov 5261 Pager 5604
   ES&H Coordinator for TVDG Asher Etkin etkin@bnl.gov 4006 Pager 5605
   ES&H Services Representative
   Local Emergency Coordinator Chuck Carlson ccarlson@bnl.gov 5261 Pager
   5604
   Tandem Advisory Committee John Benjamin  tvdg_1@gw1.ags.bnl.gov 4579
   Tandem Advisory Committee Chuck Carlson ccarlson@bnl.gov 5261 Pager
   5604
   Tandem Advisory Committee Mike Wiplich mwiplich@bnl.gov 5468
   Tandem Advisory Committee
   Tandem Advisory Committee

   11:38 AM 7/13/00

                         Report a bug on this page.
