http://cjp.ca.gov/mandatehist.htm


  calseal3.gif (18451 bytes)

                                                       State of California
                                               Commission on Judicial Performance

                                                     scales.wmf (2902 bytes)


     Governing Provisions



                             MANDATE AND HISTORY
     * Establishment of the Commission

     The commission was established by voter referendum in the November
     1960 election.  The provisions establishing the commission –
     heralded as "real protection against incompetency, misconduct or
     non-performance of duty on the Bench" – were part of a package of
     judicial administration reforms. The commission’s office was
     established and the commission began its work in 1961.

     By establishing the commission, California was the first state to
     set up a permanent body to address judicial misconduct. Today there
     are comparable bodies in all fifty states and in the District of
     Columbia, many of which were initially modeled after "the California
     plan."
     See [Other State Judicial Conduct Organizations].

     * Purpose of the Commission

     The commission is responsible for the investigation of complaints of
     judicial misconduct and incapacity and for the discipline of judges,
     former judges and court commissioners and referees. The commission’s
     authority is limited to investigation and discipline of judicial
     misconduct, which usually involves conduct in conflict with the Code
     of Judicial Ethics.

     * Legislative History

     Proposition 10 – the "Administration of Justice" amendment – was
     passed by California voters in November 1960. It amended article VI
     of the California Constitution to provide for, at section 1a,  the
     "Commission on Judicial Qualifications," a nine-member body
     comprised of five judges, two lawyers and two citizens to
     investigate allegations of judicial misconduct. Section 10b was also
     added to provide for the removal of judges from office by the
     Supreme Court on recommendation by the commission for grounds stated
     in the Constitution. The amendment specified that proceedings before
     the commission would be confidential until a recommendation was made
     by the commission to the Supreme Court for removal of the judge from
     office.

     In November 1966, Proposition 1a was approved by the voters. Based
     on recommendations by the Constitutional Revision Commission, the
     amendment "simplified and improved" the language concerning the
     commission. It also added public censure as a sanction that could be
     imposed by the Supreme Court in addition to removal from office.

     In November 1976, California voters passed Proposition 7. The
     Commission on Judicial Qualifications was renamed the Commission on
     Judicial Performance. A number of other changes were made, including
     the addition of provisions for the removal or retirement of a
     Supreme Court justice. Private admonishment – a sanction to be
     imposed by the commission – was also added. The reference to
     "habitual intemperance" as grounds for discipline was clarified by
     the addition of "in the use of intoxicants or drugs." Another of the
     enumerated grounds for censure or removal of a judge, "willful and
     persistent failure to perform judicial duties," was changed to
     "persistent failure or inability to perform the judge’s duties."

     In 1988, voters passed Proposition 92, giving the commission
     authority to open hearings at the request of the respondent judge or
     when the charges involve moral turpitude, corruption or dishonesty
     and when to do so was in the pursuit of public confidence and in the
     interests of justice. The amendment also provided for public
     statements by the commission in certain circumstances. Public
     reproval was also added as an intermediate sanction between private
     admonishment and censure that could be issued by the commission with
     the consent of the judge.

     In 1994, voters passed Proposition 190, approving more than a dozen
     significant changes to the commission. In addition to mandating open
     hearings in all cases involving formal charges, the amendment
     conferred the authority for censure and removal determinations upon
     the commission – rather than the Supreme Court – and transferred the
     authority for rulemaking from the Judicial Council to the
     commission. The membership of the commission was increased to eleven
     members: three judges, two lawyers and six citizens.

     In 1998, voters passed Proposition 221, giving the commission shared
     authority with local courts over the investigation and discipline of
     subordinate judicial officers.


   [ Top of Page ]          [ Home ]

   [ 2000 Cases ] [ Commission Membership and Meetings ]
   [ Commission Organization, Staff and Budget ] [ Mandate and History ]
   [ Filing a Complaint ] [ Citations to Supreme Court Decisions ]
   [ Press Releases ] [ Public Discipline 1960 to Present ]
   [ Publications ] [ Other Useful Links ]
   [ Privacy Statement ]
