http://www.fhfb.gov/privacy.htm

   FHFB Privacy Policy

      Thank you for visiting the Federal Housing Finance Board Website and
      reviewing our privacy policy. Our privacy policy is simple: We will
      collect no personal information about you when you visit our website
      unless you choose to provide that information to us. Here is how we
      handle information about your visit to our website:

      Information Collected and Stored Automatically
      If, during your visit, you only browse through the website, read pages,
      or download information, we automatically collect and store only the
      following information about your visit:

      1. The Internet domain (for example, "xcompany.com" if you use a
      private Internet access account, or "yourschool.edu" if you connect
      from a university's domain) and IP address (an IP address is a number
      that is automatically assigned to your computer whenever you are
      surfing the Web) from which you accessed our website;
      2. The type of browser and operating system used to access our site;
      3. The date and time you accessed our site;
      4. The pages you visited;
      5. The type of actions you performed, such as information requests, and
      the searches you performed;
      6. The number of bytes of information, if any, sent by our server; and
      7. If you linked to the Finance Board website from another website, the
      address of that website.

      This information never identifies you personally. We use this
      information to help us make our site more useful to visitors -- to
      learn about the number of visitors to our site and the types of
      technology our visitors use. We do not track or record information
      about individuals and their visits.

      Information Collected if You Access Finance Board Regulatory Reporting
      Systems
      If you are an authorized user of the Finance Board's regulatory
      reporting systems, you have received a username and password to access
      those systems. We may collect additional information regarding
      authorized users' visits to this site, including, but not limited to,
      session cookies.

      If you access the Affordable Housing Program reporting system, click
      here for additional information.

      If you access the Call Report System (CRS), click here for additional
      information.

      Cookies
      A cookie is an entry placed in a file on your hard drive by a website
      that allows it to monitor your use of the site, often without your
      knowledge. With the exception of the regulatory reporting systems
      listed above, the Finance Board does NOT use any "cookies." The Finance
      Board is in compliance with Office of Management and Budget guidance
      regarding cookies as set forth in M-00-13, Privacy Policies and Data
      Collection on Federal Web Sites,
      June 22, 2000.

      If You Send Us Personal Information
      If you choose to provide us with personal information -- as in an
      e-mail to the Finance Board, or by filling out a feedback form with
      your personal information and submitting it to us through our website
      -- we will use that information to respond to your message and to help
      us get you the information you have requested. We do not collect this
      voluntarily submitted personal information for any purpose other than
      to respond to you. We only share the information you give us with
      another government agency if your inquiry relates to that agency, or as
      otherwise required by law. Moreover, we do not create individual
      profiles with the information you provide or give it to private
      organizations. The Finance Board does not collect information for
      commercial marketing purposes.

      Links to Other Sites
      Our website has links to other federal agencies. In a few cases, we
      link to private organizations, with their permission. Once you link to
      another site, you are subject to the privacy policy of the new site.
      The new site may or may not collect cookies.

      Security and Intrusion Detection Monitoring
      For site security purposes, and to ensure that this service remains
      available to all users, the Finance Board employs software programs
      that monitor network traffic to identify unauthorized attempts to
      upload or change information or otherwise cause damage. Unauthorized
      attempts to upload information or change information on this service
      are strictly prohibited and may be punishable under federal law. Except
      for authorized law enforcement investigations, the Finance Board does
      not attempt to identify individual users or their usage habits. Raw
      data logs, which maintain the automatically collected and stored
      information described above, are used for no other purposes than those
      previously identified and are destroyed after 30-60 days.
