http://ahs.volpe.dot.gov/human/human.html

                          "HUMAN FACTORS DESIGN OF
                         AUTOMATED HIGHWAY SYSTEMS"
                              PROGRESS TO DATE

   May 1996

   Introduction

   In October 1992 the Federal Highway Administration initiated a contract
   with Honeywell, Inc. titled "Human Factors Design of Automated Highway
   Systems." This study is the initial effort to assess the driver
   behavior needs and limitations associated with using various levels and
   types of automated highways, designed to increase the capacity of our
   highway system. Since that time significant work has been completed,
   however, all of the planned research is still on-going and it is not
   expected to be completed until April 1997. The information contained
   herein is a short description on the progress to date. At the end of
   this document are references to eleven project reports which describe
   major research findings to date.

   Human Factors and AHS

   In pursuing the AHS human factors research program, a wide range of
   issues must be addressed to ensure the success of any AHS
   implementation. The objective of the Human Factors Design of Automated
   Highway Systems contract is to provide input during the conceptual
   stages of AHS development regarding those issues, to affect its design
   and implementation, and to lay the foundation for future AHS
   advancement. The contract has two parallel tracks, one analytical and
   one experimental, and the various tasks were structured to feed into
   and affect the conduct of each other.

   Analytical Efforts

   On the analytical track, visions or scenarios of what the AHS might
   look like were first developed, covering a range of options focused
   primarily on whether vehicles traveled as individuals or in groups,
   whether there were barriers on the roadway to segregate traffic, and
   whether traffic traveled between the automated and unautomated lanes.
   The scenarios were used to derive the functions that would be needed to
   support each activity that the vehicles and their drivers would need to
   perform to maneuver on the AHS. These functions were then allocated to
   either the automation, the driver, or to both to share. A task analysis
   was also performed, to determine what a driver would need to do while
   operating on an AHS.

   Also on the analytical track, several existing systems with key
   characteristics in common with the envisioned implementations of the
   AHS were analyzed to determine what lessons could be learned that apply
   to the AHS. The systems included the autopilot and flight director
   systems for two commercial transport aircraft, the Washington D.C.
   metropolitan automatic train control system, and two European
   vehicle-control systems. Lessons learned from these analyses that apply
   to the AHS include the need to provide explicit feedback to the driver
   about the status of the automation (for both failures and normal
   conditions) as well as clear indications of whether the automation or
   the driver is controlling the vehicle. Also, if drivers are expected to
   monitor status information, their attention must be explicitly drawn to
   the instrument console periodically. Finally, if drivers need to
   accurately position their vehicles when entering the system, a painted
   guide line or an in-vehicle display should be used to assist in this
   task.

   Experimental Efforts

   On the experimental track, to date, eight of fourteen experiments have
   been completed using a high-fidelity, full-motion-base driving
   simulator at The University of Iowa. These experiments examined how
   control should best be transferred to and from the driver and the AHS;
   driversÆ comfort levels when traveling under automated control; how
   well the driver could resume control of steering, velocity control, or
   both when the AHS could no longer perform that function(s); what effect
   automated travel had on normal driving; and driversÆ behaviors and
   information needs while traveling in the AHS. The findings from these
   experiments provided answers to questions asked during the analytical
   work, and led to changes in assumptions made early in the contract.

   Findings from the experiments can be grouped into four categories:
   entering the AHS, traveling on the AHS, exiting the AHS and post AHS
   driving. Selected significant findings in these four areas are
   summarized below.

   Entering the AHS:
   If drivers enter the automated lane from an adjacent unautomated lane,
   automated throughput is maximized if the differential between the
   speeds in the lanes is minimized. Also, fully automated transfer (where
   the system takes control of the steering and speed of the entering
   vehicle before it enters the automated lane) is recommended.

   Traveling on the AHS:
   Drivers of all ages were comfortable with the high speeds on the AHS
   (95 mph) but preferred the longer gaps between vehicles (gaps of 0.625
   seconds, 0.25 seconds and 1.0 second were tested). Drivers were
   comfortable while traveling under automation, but their comfort level
   decreased significantly when another vehicle entered the automated
   stream ahead of them. This decrease in comfort appears to be related to
   time-to-collision estimates. DriversÆ comfort during normal AHS travel
   is further indicated by the number of drivers (almost 50%) who closed
   their eyes for more than 5 seconds at least once during automated
   travel. On an in-vehicle information system, drivers chose to view the
   "time-to- destination" screen more often than the other three
   information screens tested ("next exit", "traffic ahead", "current
   location"). The most frequent suggestion from subjects for additions to
   the in-vehicle information system included adding a map.

   Exiting the AHS:
   A driver readiness test is needed to assure that drivers can control
   their vehicles after exiting the automated lane and moving to an
   unautomated lane. Even after a very short exposure to automation,
   drivers who were only given an advisory to leave the automated lane
   exhibited a large number of collisions and lane incursions. Also, on
   taking control of the vehicle on a curve, drivers tended to drift to
   the far right of their lanes, to the point that if the lane widths were
   reduced to less than the current standard of 12 feet, drivers would
   exceed their lane boundaries.

   Post AHS driving:
   Drivers exhibited speeds significantly higher than the posted speed in
   the unautomated lanes (55 mph) when leaving the automated lane. This
   effect was most pronounced when drivers were leaving the very high
   speed (95 mph) AHS lane. Also, driversÆ velocity instability (a measure
   of how drivers maintained a constant velocity) was significantly higher
   after they had traveled in the automated lanes when compared to their
   driving before AHS exposure.

   Preliminary Guidelines for AHS Designers

   A preliminary handbook of guidelines for use by AHS designers is
   available, which includes sections on: the capabilities of the
   projected AHS driver population (all licensed drivers) along a number
   of dimensions (e.g., size, strength, vision); human factors guidelines
   for the design of the displays, controls, and dialogue types required
   in the AHS; and guidelines for work space design, labeling, and
   computer error handling. The guidelines in the handbook, which were
   selected during a thorough review of the relevant human factors
   literature, were tailored to AHS applications. Finally, the handbook
   includes sections on operational guidelines that were derived from the
   results of earlier tasks on the contract, both analytical and
   experimental, and a chapter on how the scenarios developed in the first
   task of the contract were changed due to the results of later tasks. A
   second edition handbook, which will incorporate the findings from the
   all experimental tasks, will include significantly more AHS specific
   information, particularly in the realm of AHS operations.

   Future Plans

   As the results from the remaining experiments are analyzed, the
   findings will be incorporated into the second edition AHS handbook.
   Also, a list of future AHS human factors research questions is being
   developed and refined. This contract was the first major effort in many
   years in AHS and indicated the developersÆ understanding of the
   importance of human factors as a critical element in the success of
   AHS. Although other human factors research will be needed, this effort
   provides a significant and substantial foundation on which to build a
   successful and acceptable AHS.

   Further Information

   Detailed technical reports are available in many of the areas discussed
   above. Contact the FHWA Research and Development Reports Center
   (301-577-0818) to obtain copies of reports. Those reports with an NTIS
   Accession Number can also be obtained from National Technical
   Information Services (703-487-4600)

     * Human Factors Design of AHS: First Generation Scenarios
       (FHWA-RD-94-123) (NTIS Accession Number: PB96-125265)
     * Human Factors Design of Automated Highway Systems: Scenario
       Definition (Summary Report) (FHWA-RD-95-192)
     * Human Factors Aspects of the Transfer of Control from the Automated
       Highway System to the Driver (FHWA-RD-94-114) (NTIS Accession
       Number: PB95-242145)
     * Human Factors Aspects of the Transfer of Control from the Driver to
       the Automated Highway System (FHWA-RD-94-173) (NTIS Accession
       Number: PB95-267506)
     * Human Factors Aspects of Transferring Control from the Driver to
       the AHS with Varying Degrees of Automation (FHWA-RD-95-108)
     * Human Factors in AHS: Transferring Control to the Driver (Summary
       Report) (FHWA-RD-95-189)
     * The Effect on Normal Driving Behavior After Traveling under
       Automated Control (FHWA-RD-95-182)
     * The DriverÆs Response to Decreasing Vehicle Separation During
       Transition into the Automated Lane (FHWA-RD-95-107)
     * The Ability of the Driver to Deal with Reduced Capability in an AHS
       (FHWA-RD-96-067)
     * Preliminary Human Factors Guidelines for Automated Highway System
       Designers Volume 1: Guidelines for AHS Designers (FHWA-RD-94-116)
       (NTIS Accession Number: PB95-240875)
     * Preliminary Human Factors Guidelines for Automated Highway System
       Designers Volume lI: User-System Transactions (FHWA-RD-95-053)
     __________________________________________________________________

      Home Feedback About AHS Precursor System Analyses AHS Consortium
                    What's New AVCS Related Sites Human Factors
