http://www.mvhcb.gov/mvhcb_13h/PGVCB.htm


   Skip to content area Skip to left side navigation Skip to bottom page
   MVHCB logo

   Documents
   PRD-5
   Force Health Protection
   Research Reports
   Clinical Practice Guidelines
   Health Consequences of the Gulf War
   Deployment Readiness-a review of sexual trauma
   Related Links
   Veterans Affairs
   Health & Human Services
   Defense Link News
   Office of the Special Assistant for Gulf War Illness
   Other DOD, DHHS and VA agencies


   MVHCB title
               News & Events Home Members Only FAQs

   Persian Gulf Veterans Coordinating Board


   Memorandum

   1.  Board's Official Designation:
   The Persian Gulf Veterans Coordinating Board (the "Coordinating
   Board").
   2.  Authority:
   The Secretaries of the Departments of Veterans Affairs, Defense, and
   Health and
   Human Services established the Persian Gulf Veterans Coordinating Board
   on January
   21, 1994 to ensure coordination of clinical, research and benefits
   issues among their
   respective agencies. An agreement to form the Coordinating Board was
   entered into
   under authority of Title 31 of the United States Code, Section 1535 (31
   U.S.C. 1535).

   3.  Mission, Objectives and Scope of Activities:
   The main function of the Coordinating Board is to provide direction and
   to ensure
   coordination among the Departments of Veterans Affairs, Defense, and
   Health and
   Human Services on all issues related to Persian Gulf veterans' health
   matters. The
   membership of the Coordinating Board consists of the Secretaries of
   Veterans Affairs,
   Defense, and Health and Human Services. An additional function is to
   serve as the
   single focal point and clearinghouse for information related to the
   agencies' cooperative
   and independent efforts to bring to resolution health related questions
   of the Persian
   Gulf veterans.
   Reports from Persian Gulf veterans, members of Congress, and other
   Governmental
   agencies have identified an increasing number of unexplained illnesses
   that may be
   connected to military service in the Persian Gulf. The Coordinating
   Board, recognizing
   the legitimate concerns of these Persian Gulf veterans, will provide
   oversight and
   coordination in three broad areas of the agencies' efforts: research,
   clinical care, and
   compensation.
   The Coordinating Board has developed three objectives. These are:

     1.) To pursue an accurate and complete understanding of what factors
     have contributed to health problems reported by Persian Gulf
     veterans
     and their families.
     2.) To ensure that all the men and women who served in the Armed
     Forces in the Persian Gulf have full access to the complete range of
     health care services necessary for medical problems they now
     experience that may be Persian Gulf connected.
     3.) To seek clear and consistent descriptive terminology to document
     current health problems for the purposes of disability compensation.

   4. Working Groups:
   Three Working Groups have been established to address issues related to
   medical care,
   compensation and research. Attachment 1 lists permanent members of the
   Clinical
   Working Group, the Research Working Group, and the Disabilities and
   Compensation
   Working Group. The Working Groups address these specific objectives:

     1.) The Clinical Working Group:
     This Working Group provides direction and coordination for clinical
     efforts on behalf of Persian Gulf veterans. This oversight includes
     coordination of exanimation, registries, and provision of uniform
     assessment questionnaires and uniform physical and laboratory
     examination protocols. This Working Group provides guidance to
     assure that registries are clearly defined as a means for
     identifying and
     reporting illnesses among Gulf War veterans. The Working Group works
     towards developing education tools and programs regarding Persian
     Gulf veterans' health issues.

     2.) The Research Working Group:
     This Working Group (Research Coordinating Council) provides
      direction and coordination for the agencies' research activities
     relating
      to the illnesses of Persian Gulf veterans. This Working Group
      coordinates all studies developed from new initiatives that receive
      federal funding to prevent unnecessary duplication and to assure
     that
      resources are directed toward high priority studies.
     The Persian Gulf Veterans Research Working Group will be the forum
     for
     information exchange and research coordination between the three
     agencies. The Working Group will periodically assess the state and
      direction of research; identify gaps in factual knowledge and
      conceptual understanding; propose testable hypotheses, recommend
      research directions for participating agencies, review research
     concepts
      as they are developed, and collect and disseminate scientifically
      peer-reviewed research information. The Research Working Group
      monitors, collects, assembles, and makes accessible relevant new
     data
      and makes periodic reports to federal oversight authorities. The
      Research Working Group will obtain pre-publication copies of all
      government Persian Gulf research manuscripts and abstracts for use
     in
      development of its research plan and monitoring functions. The
      Research Working Group will develop a Persian Gulf research plan.
     This
      plan is one segment of a dynamic planning and assessment process
     and
      will be reviewed at least yearly. The Working Group will analyze
     and
      respond to recommendations of review/oversight committees and make
      recommendations to the Secretaries concerning appropriate responses
     and actions.
     In light of the President's designation (under Section 707 (a) of PL
     102-
      585) of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs as the lead official for
      coordinating federal research efforts in this area, the VA chairs
     this
      Working Group. The Environmental Protection Agency also serves on
      this group.
     3.) The Disabilities and Compensation Working Group:
     This Working Group will work toward establishing fair, clear, and
      consistent guidelines on disability compensation.

   5. Persian Gulf Veterans Coordination Board Staff:
   The Coordinating Board is staffed by representatives of Veterans
   Affairs, Defense, and
    Health and Human Services as designated by the co-chairs. Each
   Department provides
    appropriate staff to ensure efficient and effective functioning of the
   Board. A current
    list of Coordinating Board Staff members is included in Attachment 2.
   The
    Coordinating Board staff assists in all functions of the Coordinating
   Board and the
    three Working Groups. The primary liaison between the staff and the
   three departments are:

     1) Department of Veterans Affairs - Frances Murphy, M.D., MPH
     (Office
      of Public Health and Environmental Hazards)
     2) Department of Defense - John Mazzuchi, Ph.D. (Health
     Affairs/Clinical
      Services)
     3) Department of Health and Human Services - Peter Beach, M.D.
      (Immediate Office of the Secretary)

   6.  Membership:
   Membership of the Coordinating Board comprises the Secretaries of
   Veterans Affairs,
    Defense-, and Health and Human Services, serving as co-chairs
   supported by an office
    staff composed of representatives from the member agencies.

   Executive Director - An Executive Director is appointed by the
   Secretary of Veterans
    Affairs. The Executive Director:

   - develops a yearly strategic plan for the Coordinating Board for
   approval by the
    co-chairs
   - acts as a spokesperson for Coordinating Board activities
   - provides oversight of Coordinating Board staff activities
   Working Group membership is comprised of representatives of the
   respective agencies
    (Veterans Affairs, Defense, and Health and Human Services) designated
   by the
    agencies. The Chair of each Working Group shall be selected by the
   co-chairs of the
    Coordinating Board. VA, as the lead agent for Persian Gulf research,
   will-chair the
    Research Working Group.
   7.  Estimated Number and Frequencv of Meetings:
   The Working Groups will meet at the discretion of the members, usually
   monthly, but
    more or less frequently as needs dictate.
   8.  Agency Responsible for Providing Financial and Administrative
   Support to the Board:
   Administrative support to the Coordinating Board and Working Groups is
   a shared
    responsibility of the three agencies. Provision of routine clerical
   support resides with
    each agency's existing staff.
   9.  Reporting:
   Pursuant to Section 707,of Public Law 102-585, not later than March
   I1of each year, the
    Secretary of Veterans Affairs submits to the Committees on Veterans'
   Affairs of the
    Senate and House of Representatives, a report on the status and
   results of all research
    activities undertaken or funded by the Executive Branch of the Federal
   Government
    during the previous year. The Coordinating Board will help prepare the
   Research
    Report and assure coordination among all agencies contributing to the
   annual report.
   Attachments:

     Attachment 1: Listing of current permanent members of the Working
     Groups
     Attachment 2: Listing of current members of Coordinating Board
     staff

   Attachment 1
   Compensation Working Group
   Co-Chairs: Ms. Fites (DOD)/Mr. Hickman (VA)

   Membership:

     Ms. St. Clair (DOD)
     Dr. Mather (VA)
     Mr. Courtney (VA)
     Mr. Kinderman (VA)
     Mr. England (VA)
     Ms. Collier (VA)
     Ms. Garro (HHS)
     Mr. McGuil (HHS)

   Research Working Group

   Chair: Dr. Sphar (VA)
   Membership

     Dr. Gerrity (VA)
     Dr. Mazzuchi (DOD)
     Dr. Mather (VA)
     Dr. Murphy (VA)
     LTC Gackstetter (DOD)
     Dr. Beach (HHS)
     Dr. Osterman (DOD)
     Dr. Kang (VA)
     Mr. Dembling (VA)
     Dr. Hugh McKinnon (EPA)
     Dr. Boss (HHS)
     Dr. Dempstra (HHS)

   Clinical Working Group

   Chair: MG Blanck (DOD)
   Membership:

     Dr. Mather (VA)
     COL Patterson (DOD)
     Dr. Murphy (VA)
     Dr. Kang (VA)
     Dr. Bailey (DOD)
     COL O'Donnell (DOD)
     Dr. Beach (HHS)
     LTC Parkinson (DOD)
     Dr. Permison (HHS)

   Attachment 2
   Coordinating Board Staff
   Executive Director: Dr. Robert Roswell - Chief of Staff, VA Medical
   Center Birmingham, AL
   Medical Director: CAPT K. Craig Hyams, USN

   Staff Director: LTC Harriet Scheele, USA

   VA Coordinator: Mr. Robert DeVesty

   VA Coordinator: Mr. John Kraemer



   [hr.gif]

   [ News & Events | Home | Members Only | FAQs ]

   [ Contact Us | Private Policy | VA Disclaimer ]
