http://www.lao.ca.gov/2001/12-5-02_DMHC_review.pdf

   CHAIR VICE CHAIR STEVE PEACE TONY CARDENAS SENATE ASSEMBLY DICK
   ACKERMAN ROY ASHBURN DEDE ALPERT PATRICIA C. BATES JIM BATTIN JACKIE
   GOLDBERG K. MAURICE JOHANNESSEN FRED KEELEY JACK O'CONNELL CAROLE
   MIGDEN RICHARD G. POLANCO GEORGE RUNNER JOHN VASCONCELLOS RODERICK
   WRIGHT December 5, 2001 Hon. Keith Richman Assembly Member, 38th
   District Room 5128, State Capitol Sacramento, California 95814 Dear
   Assembly Member Richman: In September, you requested that we conduct a
   comprehensive review of the Department of Managed Health Care's (DMHC)
   $30 million budget as well as its daily operations. In response to your
   request, we are providing you with the following information: * A
   review of the intended role and responsibilities of DMHC and other
   background information (see page 2). * An analysis of the staffing and
   resources devoted to each of the department's main functions (see pages
   2-3). * A review of how DMHC responds to consumer complaints, including
   data on the number of calls the health maintenance organization (HMO)
   Help Center receives and applications received for Independent Medical
   Reviews (IMRs), and a discussion of the role of the Office of the
   Patient Advocate (see pages 3-8). * Information on regulatory
   activities, including the licensure, financial examination and medical
   survey processes, and data on the number of reviews conducted (see
   pages 8-10). * Information on enforcement actions taken by DMHC (see
   pages 10-11). Hon. Keith Richman 2 December 5, 2001 * An analysis of
   DMHC's involvement in the relationship between HMOs and medical groups
   (see pages 11-13). * A discussion about the financial instability of
   medical groups in California (see pages 13-17). * Examples of how other
   states regulate medical groups (see pages 17-18). * Options you may
   wish to consider for improving regulation of the managed care industry
   (see pages 18-20). Role and Responsibilities of DMHC The department's
   stated mission is to work toward an accountable and viable managed care
   delivery system that promotes healthier Californians. This is
   accomplished by a variety of activities, including: * Ensuring
   accountability through enforcement of the provisions of the Knox- Keene
   Health Care Service Plan Act of 1975, which authorizes state regulation
   of health care plans. * Developing and launching public education and
   awareness efforts. * Providing an annual HMO report card. * Operating
   the HMO Help Center to help Californians resolve their problems with
   HMOs. * Licensing and conducting medical surveys and financial
   examinations of health care service plans. * Maintaining a toll-free
   physician phone line so that the Office of Plan- Provider Relations is
   informed early of systemic problems that may affect consumers. Other
   state agencies play a role in regulating HMOs, including the Department
   of Insurance (DOI), Department of Health Services (DHS), the Managed
   Risk Medical Insurance Board (MRMIB), and the Department of Consumer
   Affairs. Staffing and Resources Devoted to Main Functions The DMHC's
   main functions are housed in five offices: the Office of Enforcement,
   the Office of Health Plan Oversight, the HMO Help Center, the Office of
   Legal Services, and the Office of the Patient Advocate. The three
   remaining offices, the Office of Administrative Services, the Office of
   the Director, and the Office of Technology and Innovation support
   DMHC's day-to-day operations. To carry out its duties, DMHC has 329
   authorized positions, of which about 50 are currently vacant. As shown
   in Figure 1, Hon. Keith Richman 3 December 5, 2001 approximately
   one-third of the staff supports DMHC's day-to-day operations (the
   Office of Administrative Services, the Office of the Director, and the
   Office of Technology and Innovation), 27 percent is devoted to health
   plan oversight, and 21 percent of the staff works in the HMO Help
   Center. The remainder of the staff is split evenly between enforcement
   and legal activities. Funding for these activities is allocated in
   roughly the same proportion as staffing. Figure 1 One-Fourth of DMHC
   Staff Devoted to Health Plan Oversight 2001-02 (Dollars in Thousands)
   Staff Budget Office Total Percent Amount Percent Administrative
   Services 58 18% $3,773 12% Director 27 8 2,847 9 Technology and
   Innovation 20 6 1,612 5 Enforcement 26 8 2,128 7 Health Plan Oversight
   88 27 8,525 27 HMO Help Center 70 21 7,224 23 Legal Services 26 8 2,249
   7 Patient Advocate 14 4 3,489 11 Totals 329 100% $31,847 100% Enclosure
   1 shows DMHC's budget for each office in more detail and Enclosure 2
   provides additional details on the HMO Help Center and the Office of
   Health Plan Oversight's budget. How the Department Handles Consumer
   Complaints The HMO Help Center In response to your request we are
   providing information about the HMO Help Center which is a call center
   that DMHC operates 24 hours a day/7 days a week. The center received
   162,349 calls in 2000-01 or an average of 450 calls per day. Based on
   the number of calls received in the first three months of the current
   fiscal year, the center is likely to handle approximately the same
   volume of calls in 2001-02. The number of calls actually received in
   August was 14,000, or an average of nearly 500 calls a day. However,
   the center received fewer calls in September-approximately 12,000, or
   an average of nearly 400 a day. The DMHC attributes the decline in
   September calls to the September 11 terrorist attacks. Hon. Keith
   Richman 4 December 5, 2001 Overall Type and Number of Consumer Calls. A
   caller to the HMO Help Center must first navigate through the
   interactive voice response system. Last year, nearly half of the calls
   to the hotline were handled by this system and the consumer did not
   need to further consult with a telephone operator. The remaining calls
   were handled by DMHC telephone operators and operators under contract
   with the department. Of the calls handled by operators, about 50
   percent of the consumers' calls were referred back to their health care
   service plans for completion of a 30-day HMO grievance process that
   must be undertaken before an enrollee is permitted to file a complaint
   with DMHC. Requests for general information comprise the next highest
   percentage of calls handled by operators. A small share of the calls
   that operators receive, approximately 5,000 annually or 6 percent, are
   consumer complaints that are still unresolved after having gone through
   the health plan's grievance process. These calls are described below in
   greater detail. Less than 1 percent of the calls received by operators,
   about 1,200 annually, are considered "urgent complaints," such as
   complaints concerning denial or delay of medication, premature release
   from a hospital, or inappropriate care. Operators had been referring
   only a small percentage of enrollee calls to other state agencies such
   as DHS or MRMIB to handle problems outside of DMHC's jurisdiction.
   However, the department has recently experienced an increase in the
   overlap of its complaint resolution efforts with other government
   agencies that regulate the health insurance industry, particularly DOI.
   Consumers are increasingly calling the wrong state agency with their
   complaints, leading to a duplication of efforts by state agencies and a
   delay in response to consumer complaints. This overlap can complicate
   and extend the resolution process. Because of such concerns, and in
   accordance with state law, the Director of DMHC and its Advisory
   Committee on Managed Care contracted for a study of the feasibility and
   merit of consolidating regulation of all health insurers within DMHC.
   This study includes within its scope the regulation of indemnity
   insurers, preferred provider organizations, exclusive provider
   organizations, and other managed care products currently regulated by
   DOI. A draft report discusses a number of options for making state
   regulation of managed care more consistent and effective. The final
   report is due to the department by the end of December. Type and Number
   of Consumer Complaint Calls. The DMHC operators categorize consumer
   complaints into five types of issues: billing disputes, quality of
   care, benefits and coverage, access to care, and other. Since DMHC's
   inception, about 30 percent of the complaints received concerned
   billing disputes between the health care plan and the beneficiary. For
   example, a beneficiary might contact the Help Center if he or she has
   not received proper reimbursement from their health care plan for
   services they received outside of their Hon. Keith Richman 5 December
   5, 2001 usual health care clinic. Twenty-four percent of the complaints
   concern benefits and coverage issues. Access to care complaints have
   steadily increased since DMHC began operation. In August 2000, these
   complaints accounted for 5 percent of all complaints received, but in
   October 2001 they accounted for 33 percent of the total. According to
   DMHC, the increase in access to care complaints may be a result of the
   increased number of medical group closures. In contrast, enrollee
   complaints about the quality of the care that the health care service
   plans provide have decreased steadily from a high of 41 percent of the
   complaints in October 2000 to 7 percent of enrollee complaints in
   October 2001. The DMHC attributes the decrease to its enforcement
   efforts. Handling of Consumer Complaint Calls. Staff works to resolve
   enrollee complaints by directly involving the beneficiary and the
   health care plan. The DMHC has taken this a step further by piloting a
   three-way calling system with two health care plans. When DMHC receives
   a complaint from a beneficiary in one of these plans, it works to
   resolve the complaint immediately by conducting a three-way call with
   the beneficiary, a DMHC operator, and a plan representative. According
   to DMHC, the pilot has been very successful in terms of getting issues
   resolved quickly and with satisfactory outcomes. The information we
   have reviewed indicates that DMHC staff is generally handling consumer
   complaints in a timely and satisfactory manner. The center has focused
   on reviewing and closing cases within the 30-day mandate and resolves
   nearly all calls within this time frame. The department also surveys
   individuals who register complaints with the department to ensure
   quality customer services. During February 2001, the most recent survey
   completed, the department reported that 85 percent of the consumers
   surveyed said they were completely satisfied with DMHC's services; the
   remaining 15 percent reported that they were moderately satisfied. We
   did not attempt to independently validate this survey's results because
   DMHC plans to implement a more thorough survey mechanism and have the
   Office of the Patient Advocate conduct these surveys in the future.
   Outcomes From HMO Help Center Activity The DMHC maintains that the HMO
   Help Center has had two beneficial effects. The DMHC asserts and we
   concur that the center has helped the department identify systematic
   problems in the managed care industry and also resulted in positive
   outcomes for individual consumers. We discuss both of these effects
   below. Identification of Systemic Problems in the Industry. The DMHC
   uses data collected from consumer complaints to detect problematic
   trends in the managed care industry. Hon. Keith Richman 6 December 5,
   2001 The complaint analysts receiving consumers' calls meet weekly to
   discuss the nature of complaints that are received. According to call
   center staff, if a systemic problem is detected either within a plan or
   within several plans, staff will ordinarily work to resolve the
   immediate complaint, then refer the matter to a DMHC division that
   reviews health care plan operations in a systemic way. When these
   reviews identify systemic problems, DMHC may then initiate a nonroutine
   financial examination of the health plan involved that could lead to
   DMHC enforcement actions. We are advised by DMHC that issues detected
   by the call center are also discussed officewide on a regular basis.
   Each month, the staff prepares a report calling such issues to the
   attention of DMHC senior directors. Call center staff meet regularly
   with staff in the enforcement, legal, and oversight offices to share
   information and discuss trends in complaints and systemic problems that
   they have detected. The current process used to detect systemic issues
   is largely manual and relies heavily on the skills of complaint
   analysts. The DMHC inherited a Department of Corporations (DOC)
   complaint-tracking database that categorizes all complaints within four
   specific categories plus "other." This limited system does not allow
   DMHC staff to query the database or generate reports tailored to their
   needs. A new database system that is in the process of being
   implemented is designed to capture a greater number of call details,
   enable staff to generate reports intended to address particular
   problems, and allow all DMHC units to view complaint tracking data. The
   DMHC anticipates that this system will allow it to more easily detect
   systemic problems and increase its ability to respond proactively to
   indicators that plans and providers are facing financial or other
   difficulties. Assistance to Individual Consumers. Information provided
   by DMHC indicates that the operation of the HMO Help Center is
   resulting in positive outcomes for some individual consumers,
   particularly as regards the payment of patient bills. For example, in
   fiscal year 2000-01, the department reported that the total of patient
   bills paid by health care plans as a result of staff efforts was more
   than $1.5 million. In addition to resolving specific complaints, DMHC
   contends that the operation of the call center has positively impacted
   consumers more broadly. It cites as evidence the changes which have
   occurred in the types of complaints received. For example, as noted
   earlier, the number of complaints concerning quality of care issues has
   declined since the call center began operation. The DMHC attributes
   this decrease to a focus on enforcement, contending that health care
   plans are more likely than before to resolve complaints from
   beneficiaries using their internal complaint resolution process rather
   than allow complaints to be brought before DMHC. While the overall
   volume of calls has increased since the hotline began operation, DMHC
   attributes this to consumers' increased awareness of the call center
   and asserts that it is not necessarily an indication that consumers are
   having a greater number of problems with HMOs. Hon. Keith Richman 7
   December 5, 2001 Independent Medical Review In January 2001, DMHC
   implemented an Independent Medical Review (IMR) program that allows
   beneficiaries to request an independent review of certain kinds of
   disputes over health care services. The IMRs are limited to disputes
   about whether services were medically necessary, whether they were
   experimental or investigational and therefore not included in medical
   coverage, and denial of claims for services that have been provided for
   emergency or urgent care services outside of the clinics or hospitals
   that patients must ordinarily visit. If DMHC determines that a case
   qualifies for review, it is forwarded to the Independent Medical Review
   Organization (IMRO), an external group that has been awarded a contract
   by DMHC through a competitive bidding process to conduct IMRs. After
   IMRO renders a decision, DMHC generally adopts and issues a written
   decision on the case. According to studies of external review programs,
   IMRs help ensure that health plans make decisions about access to care
   based on medical evidence rather than pressure to hold down medical
   expenditures. The DMHC has received 1,263 requests for IMRs since
   January 2001. After reviewing these requests, DMHC determined that more
   than half were ineligible for review because they did not directly
   relate to disputed health care services, but rather concerned such
   issues as coverage or reimbursement. Of the remaining 573 requests, 447
   were sent to IMRO for review. The HMO Help Center's IMR team handled
   the remaining cases that it determined could be resolved without an
   independent review. Most of the IMRs reviewed by IMRO address disputes
   over the medical necessity of the services sought by patients. As shown
   in Figure 2, IMRO has upheld the health care plans' denials in 55
   percent of the cases and overturned the health plans' denial decision
   29 percent of the time. Seven percent of the cases were withdrawn from
   the review process by the health plans, and 9 percent of the cases
   remain pending. National statistics about decisions made by independent
   review organizations find that the decisions generally split evenly
   between the plan and the enrollee. The DMHC has predicted that the
   outcomes from its IMR process will eventually more closely parallel
   those national statistics. Hon. Keith Richman 8 December 5, 2001 Figure
   2 IMRO Has Upheld Most Health Plans' Decisions Upheld Overturned
   Withdrawn Pending Total Determinations of cases sent to IMRO 247 (55%)
   128 (29%) 30 (7%) 42 (9%) 447 (100%) While there are clear indications
   that the HMO Help Center has resulted in positive outcomes for
   consumers, the impact of the IMR process on consumer outcomes has not
   yet been clearly demonstrated. The department has noted a number of
   instances in which a request for an IMR has been withdrawn by a
   consumer after the health plan has received notification that a
   decision it had made was going to IMR. The DMHC contends that this
   trend demonstrates the value of the IMR process-that health plans are
   reconsidering their prior decisions to deny services to consumers and
   are instead resolving issues on their own rather than allowing disputes
   to go to IMR. Our review indicates, however, that relatively few IMRs
   are being withdrawn compared to the total number of cases. The small
   number of such cases raises questions about DMHC's claims about the
   extent of the impact of the IMR process. Office of the Patient Advocate
   The Office of the Patient Advocate works in conjunction with the HMO
   Help Center, but is not directly involved in resolving consumer
   complaints. Rather, the office is directed by state law to focus on the
   development and distribution of written materials that inform consumers
   of their rights and responsibilities in regard to effective ways to
   exercise their rights and secure health care services. The office also
   renders advice and assistance to enrollees regarding procedures,
   rights, and responsibilities related to the use of health plan
   grievance systems, and each year compiles report cards on the quality
   of care provided by HMOs. How DMHC Regulates HMOs You have requested
   information about DMHC's regulatory activities. As of November 2001,
   the department was responsible for the regulation of 108 different
   health care plans. The following three sections describe the regulatory
   roles and activity of DMHC from its inception. Hon. Keith Richman 9
   December 5, 2001 Licensing The Licensing Division of DMHC is
   responsible for assuring that licensed health plans provide preventive
   and other medically necessary health care services in an appropriately
   organized and financially stable setting. Three specialized plans have
   been licensed by DMHC since it began operation. (These are in addition
   to the plans previously licensed by its predecessor agency, the
   Department of Corporations.) In addition to licensing plans, the
   licensing division plays a role in resolving systemic problems with
   health plans. When DMHC staff in the HMO Help Center believes that it
   has detected a potentially systemic issue, the licensing division is
   usually contacted first. Before DMHC undertakes a financial examination
   or medical survey, the licensing division will contact the health plan
   and attempt to determine if the health plan has exhibited a serious
   lack of compliance or if the issue is easily resolved. For example,
   concerns about a health plan's failure to regularly provide
   beneficiaries with IMR applications might be easily resolved with a
   DMHC instruction to the plan to provide the applications. Financial
   Examinations The Division of Financial Oversight monitors and evaluates
   the financial viability of health plans to ensure continued access to
   benefits for enrollees and to protect consumers and providers from
   problems associated with potential insolvencies. The examinations
   include review of health plan financial statements, analysis of
   financial arrangements, and review of information the health plans are
   required to submit as part of the licensing process. The DMHC is
   required by law to conduct routine financial exams of health plans at
   least once every five years and to conduct additional nonroutine exams
   as needed. Nonroutine exams may also be instigated by complaints from
   the HMO Help Center or issues DMHC has identified by other means. From
   July 2001 through the end of October 2001, 16 routine and 6 nonroutine
   exams were pending. Eleven of the exams are of full-service health
   plans and 11 are of specialized plans that provide only one type of
   service such as chiropractic care. The department starts an average of
   two to three new exams each month. During 2000-01, the department
   initiated 23 routine exams and 15 nonroutine exams, of which 25 were of
   full-service plans and 13 were of specialized plans. The DMHC's
   financial examination duties also involve the Financial Solvency
   Standards Board, a panel established within DMHC under Chapter 529,
   Statutes of 2000 (SB 260, Speier), to develop solutions to health plan
   and provider solvency issues. The eight-member board includes DMHC's
   Director and individuals with training and experience in such subject
   areas as medicine, economics, accounting, actuarial studies, and the
   administration of health care delivery systems. The board advises the
   Director on matters of financial solvency and recommends requirements
   and standards for plan Hon. Keith Richman 10 December 5, 2001
   operations and contractual relationships. The board also periodically
   monitors and reports on the implementation of financial solvency
   standards. Medical Surveys State law requires DMHC to periodically
   conduct an onsite survey of the health delivery system of each health
   plan subject to its regulation. The DMHC relies upon its own analysts,
   most of whom were registered nurses at one time, as well as outside
   consultants to conduct these medical surveys. The surveys include a
   review of procedures for obtaining services, procedures for regulating
   utilization, peer-review mechanisms, internal procedures for assuring
   quality of care, and overall plan performance in meeting enrollees'
   health care needs. The surveys are to occur at least once every three
   years. In addition, nonroutine surveys can result from complaints
   received through the HMO Help Center or reports from other DMHC staff.
   According to DMHC, a medical survey could result in enforcement actions
   being taken against a health plan, but to date this has not occurred.
   The department indicates that it instead focuses the medical surveys on
   working out health plan problems and ensuring the implementation of
   corrective action plans resulting from medical surveys. Since DMHC
   began operation, a total of 49 medical surveys have been completed.
   These included reviews of 18 full-service plans, 18 dental plans, 5
   vision plans, 7 behavioral health plans, and 1 chiropractic plan. All
   of these were routine reviews. The DMHC has not yet conducted any
   nonroutine medical surveys. Enforcement Activities Every formal
   enforcement action DMHC takes is the result of a financial examination,
   a complaint from the HMO Help Center, or a referral from the licensing
   division. The DMHC has taken formal action against 24 health care
   service plans and five dental plans since July 1, 2000 in response to
   determinations of violations of managed care laws, as shown in Figure
   3. The number of plans DMHC has taken action against is less than the
   total number of actions shown in Figure 3 because in some instances
   multiple actions have been taken against a single plan. One example of
   a formal action taken by the department was to require a plan with
   financial difficulties to accept a conservator who would ensure the
   uninterrupted provision of services to beneficiaries, payment of
   claims, and closure of the health plan's operations. The DMHC has also
   issued cease-and-desist orders to unlicensed plans, prepared letters of
   agreement between DMHC and a plan for miscellaneous violations such as
   failure to pay claims for prescription drugs, and revoked the licenses
   of plans with significant financial issues. Hon. Keith Richman 11
   December 5, 2001 Figure 3 Enforcement Actions Since DMHC Began
   Operation 2000-01 and 2001-02 (year to date) Letter of Cease and
   Agreement License Accusation of Conservator Desist Order Regarding
   Surrendered/ Wrongdoing Appointed Issued Violation Revoked 2000-01 6 3
   6 8 5 2001-02 (year-to-date) 3 1 2 4 0 Total 9 4 8 12 5 As noted
   earlier, DMHC has in some cases taken several actions against a single
   plan over a period of time. For example, DMHC fined one health plan
   $30,000 for failure to provide the 30-day advance notice required by
   law for changes in premium rates or changes in coverage, $15,000 for
   violation of confidentiality of medical records, and $60,000 for
   submitting false statements about the plan's finances. In some
   instances, it appears that initial violations found by DMHC were a
   precursor to greater troubles. For example, in July 2000, action was
   taken against one health plan for the plan's failure to file financial
   reports. Nine months later, the plan surrendered its license because of
   financial issues. Enclosure 3 provides additional detail on other
   enforcement actions taken by DMHC. According to DMHC, the total amount
   of fines collected from health care service plans in fiscal year
   2000-01 was $430,000. For fiscal year 2001-02 (year-to-date) the total
   amount of fines collected is $92,000. The largest single fine collected
   since DMHC began operation was a $250,000 penalty for one plan's
   failure to pay provider claims. The DMHC has levied numerous fines of
   $2,500 against plans for administrative violations specified in the
   Knox-Keene Act. The DMHC's Involvement in the HMO-Medical Group
   Relationship The Knox-Keene Act requires that all contracts between
   health plans and medical groups be "fair, reasonable, and consistent"
   with the objectives of the act and makes DMHC responsible for enforcing
   these provisions of this act. While some have interpreted the provision
   to grant DMHC broad authority, DMHC has interpreted this more narrowly.
   Specifically, DMHC does not interpret "fair" and "reasonable" to mean
   that it shall be involved in issues relating to the sufficiency of
   payment rates or plan- medical group contracts. Instead, it enforces
   this provision of the law in several other ways. This may be an area
   the Legislature would wish to review in the future. Hon. Keith Richman
   12 December 5, 2001 The Department's Interpretation of Its
   Responsibilities. We are advised by DMHC that its licensing staff
   regularly reviews contract provisions to ensure that they are not vague
   and are clear and understandable. The DMHC further indicates that it
   reviews so-called risk-sharing agreements between health plans and
   medical groups during routine and nonroutine financial examinations.
   (Medical groups that receive a capitated rate per beneficiary are
   essentially sharing financial risk with the health plans. The shared
   risk is primarily whether payments for health coverage will be
   collectively sufficient to pay the costs of all medical services needed
   by insured individuals.) The DMHC reviews the risk-sharing agreements
   to determine whether they are adequate to ensure access to health care
   for consumers and to ensure that plans have procedures to monitor the
   financial viability of providers whose payments are capitated. Also,
   DMHC indicates that it reviews contracts to ensure that they contain
   provisions for the fast, fair, and cost-effective resolution of
   disputes with both contracting and noncontracting providers. The DMHC
   contends that its enforcement of patients' rights laws and the use of
   tools such as IMRs will influence the managed care marketplace in a way
   that results in fair capitation rates for providers. The department was
   unable to provide evidence to prove this contention. In keeping with
   its narrow interpretation of the law, DMHC has not devoted significant
   resources to overseeing the relationship between HMOs and providers.
   The Office of Plan and Provider Relations, which is responsible for
   this function, has only two staff members-a deputy director and an
   office technician. According to DMHC, the broad purpose of the office
   is to identify and resolve problems between health plans, hospitals,
   physicians, and other providers to ensure early resolution of consumer
   issues. However, the actual practice of the office is to limit its
   involvement to resolving complaints by providers against health plans
   about unfair payment practices. The DMHC has interpreted existing
   regulations to limit its participation in the plan- provider
   relationship to payment practices, rather than payment level or payment
   sufficiency. Providers report problems to the office through a
   toll-free provider hotline and an e-mail address. The office receives
   approximately 300 such calls and 32 such e-mails per month. From the
   period of February 2001 through September 2001, about 87 percent of the
   calls involved payment problems and related legal questions. About 4
   percent of the calls were from mental health providers concerning the
   mental health parity law, Chapter 534, Statutes of 2000 (AB 88,
   Thomson). About 3 percent were from brokers, consumers, attorneys, and
   others who had general legal questions about the regulation of HMOs.
   The remaining callers sought help on a wide variety of issues. In May
   and June of 2001, a significant number of calls (about 15 percent of
   the total in those months) involved questions regarding Chapter 529,
   the 2000 legislation authored by Senator Speier which also included a
   number of provisions relating to the health plan-medical group
   relationship. Hon. Keith Richman 13 December 5, 2001 The DMHC indicates
   that the Office of Plan and Provider Relations works closely with staff
   in the department's other divisions-including licensing, financial
   exams, medical survey, and enforcement-to resolve these complaints.
   Problems with provider payments from health care plans are recorded in
   a database that enables enforcement and financial division staff to
   detect trends in unfair business practices and possibly trigger
   nonroutine financial examinations of health plans engaged in such
   practices. During the past year, at least three health plans have been
   identified for nonroutine exams as a result of these complaints. The
   office also works with the HMO Help Center to identify and resolve
   systemic problems within health care plans and provider groups. Legal
   questions concerning provider contracts and HMO requirements are
   referred to house counsel. Recent Legislation Further Defines the
   Department's Role. The Legislature has taken some actions to broaden
   DMHC's responsibility for managing the HMO-medical group relationship.
   Chapter 825, Statutes of 2000 (SB 1177, Perata) and Chapter 827,
   Statutes of 2000 (AB 1455, Scott), both of which took effect January 1,
   2001, increased DMHC's role in ensuring prompt payment of providers.
   The legislation directs DMHC to develop regulations that would require
   health plans to establish procedures to resolve provider billing claims
   and disputes. Health plans would also be required by regulation to make
   providers aware of the dispute-resolution procedures and to report to
   DMHC the number and nature of provider disputes. The legislation
   increases the rate of interest that must be paid on late claims, and
   prohibits plans from engaging in unfair payment practices. Because
   these regulations were implemented only recently, it may take some time
   to see what impact they have on the relationship between providers and
   health plans. Financial Instability of Medical Groups in California In
   the following sections, we examine the financial challenges facing
   medical groups in California and discuss some of the possible causes of
   their financial instability. As we discuss further below, medical
   groups' problems appear to be the result of a combination of factors
   and probably should not be attributed to a single cause. Ineffective
   management, inadequate computer systems that cannot properly manage
   patient data and billings for medical services, unanticipated surges in
   pharmaceutical costs, and changes in medical practices and patient
   utilization of services may be contributing to the situation. In
   addition, other possible causes of financial instability include the
   way medical groups are regulated in California, medical groups bearing
   too much risk, and low capitation rates. We discuss these issues below.
   Medical Groups Face Financial Challenges A number of recent closures
   and bankruptcies have demonstrated that California's medical groups
   face significant financial challenges. These problems have significant
   Hon. Keith Richman 14 December 5, 2001 ramifications for the health
   care industry and consumers. Health plans must seek to maintain a
   sufficient number of providers to meet beneficiary needs. The failure
   of medical groups forces beneficiaries to find new providers, requires
   the sometimes problematic transfer of their personal medical records to
   new providers, and can interrupt the continuity of their care. Complete
   statewide data on the number of medical groups that have closed or face
   financial difficulties are not available. However, there is evidence
   that financial problems are likely to continue, particularly for
   medical groups that share financial risk with health plans for
   providing health care. The DMHC released for the first time in October
   2001 a set of grades of the financial solvency of risk-bearing medical
   groups. Based upon the grades, it appears that about one-third of the
   groups are facing significant financial troubles. Specifically, 75 of
   the 243 groups, or 31 percent of those complying with the financial
   disclosure requirements, reported that they did not maintain either a
   positive working capital (the extent to which current assets exceed
   current liabilities) or a positive tangible net equity (the extent to
   which tangible assets exceed liabilities), two standard measures of
   financial stability. Medical Groups Are Not Directly Regulated There is
   some evidence that an important factor affecting the financial status
   of medical groups is in the different ways they and health plans are
   regulated. In California and other states, health insurance companies
   and their health plans are subject to significant regulation. A number
   of regulatory safeguards have been established to protect health
   insurance consumers. Health insurance companies, for example, are
   commonly required to maintain adequate financial reserves because of
   the significant amount of risk that they bear. This risk is primarily
   the possibility that the premiums received for their coverage will be
   insufficient to pay for the medical needs of the persons they insure.
   Health care plans transfer some of this risk to independent medical
   groups through contracts for the provision of medical services to their
   beneficiaries. In effect, some medical groups function as HMOs when
   they agree to provide medical services at a predetermined (capitated)
   rate for patients. Nonetheless, these medical groups do not qualify as
   health care service plans under the Knox-Keene Act and thus are not
   regulated by DMHC, DOI, or any other state entity. Health Plans
   Indirectly Regulate Medical Groups. Chapter 529 (the 2000 bill
   discussed earlier) directed DMHC to indirectly regulate medical groups
   by requiring that their contracts with health care plans meet certain
   standards to ensure the medical group's administrative and financial
   capacity during the contract period. The measure also required DMHC to
   grade risk-bearing medical groups based on four standards, including
   their maintenance of positive working capital and their tangible net
   equity. In Hon. Keith Richman 15 December 5, 2001 essence, this
   legislation established an early warning system to detect medical
   groups that might face insolvency. Other regulatory agencies such as
   DOI use a similar approach to help protect consumers from the outcomes
   of financial insolvencies of insurers. In March 2001, DMHC issued
   emergency regulations specifying the obligations of physician groups
   and health plans for compliance with Chapter 529. As part of these
   regulations, medical groups must submit annual audited financial
   statements and quarterly status reports to DMHC. In addition, HMOs must
   submit monthly reports to each medical group listing the patients
   enrolled and amount of capitation paid for each beneficiary. The
   regulations also required HMOs to disclose during contract negotiations
   how the responsibility for costs is divided between the medical group
   and the health plan, and to further disclose the expected utilization
   rates, costs, and risk adjustment factors for the patients to be
   provided services under the proposed contract. Finally, HMOs must
   provide quarterly reports to medical groups disclosing the income and
   expenses for shared risk pools. A risk pool is an amount of funds that
   is set aside by an HMO and a medical group to pay for the provision of
   certain services that are not the full responsibility of the medical
   group, such as hospitalization. Under such arrangements, the medical
   group is not held responsible for paying for these specific services.
   At a predetermined time, the health plan must divide the money (called
   risk pool receivables) remaining in the risk pool with the medical
   group. The Chapter 529 regulations require HMOs to disperse to medical
   groups their share of money remaining in the pool within 180 days of
   the determination of the amount of unspent funds in the pool, a
   calculation that occurs on a regular basis (usually once each year). It
   Is Too Early to Assess the Impact of Indirect Regulation. Since the
   Chapter 529 regulations were released only recently, it will take some
   time before their impact can be properly assessed. However, Dr.
   Lawrence Casalino, a University of Chicago expert on managed care
   issues, concluded in a recent article in Health Affairs (July/August
   2001) that the regulations will probably help to stabilize California's
   managed care marketplace by eliminating weaker medical groups. He also
   concluded that these changes will further DMHC's stated mission of
   protecting consumers by moving patients to stronger medical groups and
   reducing the disruption caused by medical group bankruptcies. Bearing
   Too Much Risk Results in Financial Troubles Some researchers have
   suggested that, because medical groups are largely unregulated, they
   have taken on too much risk for the costs of patient care. A study by
   California Healthcare Foundation (October 2001) concluded, for example,
   that the root of the medical groups' problem is that financial risk has
   shifted to them from insurance companies. Hon. Keith Richman 16
   December 5, 2001 The foundation study specifically found that medical
   groups often face insolvency because of their reliance on payments from
   risk pools. As discussed earlier, medical groups conduct their
   operations on the assumption that they will receive payments of surplus
   funds from the HMO-medical group risk pool. The surplus in the pool is
   ordinarily paid out once a year. However, the amounts due to the
   medical groups are often held up in disputes with health plans. Since a
   medical group's liabilities typically consist of obligations that must
   be paid on a short-term basis, such as claims payments and salary
   expenses, their reliance on once-a-year risk pool payments for cash to
   pay such bills could lead to financial problems. The California
   Healthcare Foundation study found that the more that risk pool
   receivables comprised the current assets of a medical group, the less
   liquidity it generally has. The study thus recommended that the Chapter
   529 standards be modified to include a cash ratio standard (the ratio
   of a medical group's cash plus marketable securities divided by current
   liabilities) as a better measure of near-term liquidity than its
   tangible net equity. The study found that a group might appear to be
   financially sound according to its tangible net equity, but that an
   evaluation according to its cash ratio could demonstrate serious
   liquidity pressures. As a result, the researchers concluded that a
   review of insurers according to their cash-ratio standards would better
   enable DMHC to identify medical groups with near-term liquidity
   problems. The importance for risk-bearing entities to maintain reserves
   is stressed by Casalino in his recent Health Affairs article. Casalino
   maintains that medical groups in California embraced sharing risk with
   health plans, yet the medical groups failed to develop some of the
   qualities that are essential components of viable risk-bearing
   entities. For example, he contends medical groups have been unwilling
   to accumulate cash reserves and maintain levels of assets in excess of
   liabilities sufficient to meet financial obligations. Capitation Rates
   Are Low, But Other Factors Play a Role Associations of medical
   professionals and health plans have participated in an ongoing debate
   about the adequacy of capitation payments paid by health plans to
   medical groups. Complicating that debate is the lack of accurate or
   complete information about capitation rates or the number of medical
   groups that have actually filed for bankruptcy. According to a recent
   article in Health Affairs (July/August 2001) by Dr. James Robinson,
   another expert on the managed health care industry, low payment rates
   are a significant cause of medical groups' problems. But, the author
   states that the relationship between low payment and organizational
   turmoil is complex and inconsistent. He finds, for example, that even
   though payment rates in some parts of the Hon. Keith Richman 17
   December 5, 2001 United States are much higher than in others, this has
   not always ensured financial stability of the medical groups in those
   regions. Robinson also found that while physician reimbursement rates
   have varied significantly within California, so has the incidence of
   financial difficulties experienced by medical groups in different
   regions of the state. For example, medical groups in Los Angeles are
   having greater troubles than those in San Francisco even though the
   Medicare HMO reimbursement rates are greater in Los Angeles.
   Furthermore, in every region within California some medical groups are
   earning modest profits while others are facing financial difficulties,
   making it difficult to determine the exact relationship between
   physician rates and the financial instability of medical groups. A
   California Healthcare Foundation study (October 2001) likewise found
   that higher capitation payments to a medical group were not associated
   with better liquidity. The study found that medical groups with higher
   capitation rates actually tended to have lower liquidity. According to
   the study, this could be because medical groups with higher capitation
   rates tend to care for sicker patients or because medical groups with
   higher payments tend to pay their physicians higher rates and retain
   less cash. Regulation of Medical Groups in Other States You have
   requested that we provide you with information about how other states
   regulate medical groups. We found wide variation in the extent and
   method of regulating medical groups that appears to be related to the
   extent to which states have implemented managed care. As of January
   2000, HMOs had not penetrated the health care system in other states to
   the extent that they had in California. California's 54 percent
   enrollment in managed care plans is the highest of any state in the
   country. Only eleven other states had a penetration rate that exceeded
   34 percent. As a result, most states have not developed comprehensive
   regulations to address weaknesses in the managed care system that may
   compromise patient care. Our review found that one state has chosen to
   regulate medical groups, as well as HMOs, in an effort to stabilize the
   managed care industry. The Organized Delivery System Act, enacted in
   2000 in New Jersey, requires the licensing by the state Commission of
   Banking and Insurance of any organization that contracts with health
   insurers to provide health care services and which assumes financial
   risk for patient care. As part of licensure, these medical groups must
   file annually audited financial statements and maintain an adequate
   level of reserves. Medical groups that do not assume risk are required
   to obtain certification from the state Department of Health and Senior
   Services attesting that they do not bear any risk for the medical
   services they provide. As a result, all New Jersey medical groups are
   subject to either licensure or certification. Hon. Keith Richman 18
   December 5, 2001 In an attempt to stabilize its health care industry,
   North Carolina law requires that HMO premiums be adequate to cover
   "anticipated costs." The state Department of Insurance enforces this
   requirement by conducting actuarial reviews of payment rates to medical
   groups. North Carolina does not regulate the financial solvency of
   provider groups. Some Weaknesses in the State's Regulatory Approach Our
   review of the department's operations suggests there are some
   weaknesses in the state's approach to regulation of the managed health
   care industry. These concerns include: * The state's lack of sufficient
   information to fully assess why a number of medical groups in
   California are experiencing financial instability. * Inconsistencies in
   the way the state regulates HMOs and risk-bearing medical groups which,
   like the HMOs, take on significant financial risks in their operations.
   * The limited role that DMHC has determined it can play in the
   HMO-medical group relationship despite the significant impact these
   contracts can have on the quality and stability of patient care. *
   Potential problems resulting from the division of state regulation of
   the managed care industry among several different state agencies. * The
   possibility that the assessments DMHC imposes on HMOs are insufficient
   to meet the department's statutory responsibilities. Options to Improve
   Regulation of the Managed Care Industry Below, we offer several
   approaches you may wish to consider that would change the way the
   managed health care industry is regulated in California. Some of these
   options may work together, while others represent alternative courses
   of action. All would require substantial further study and analysis. *
   Licensing and Certification of Medical Groups. You may wish to consider
   legislation similar to the measure enacted in New Jersey requiring that
   all medical groups be licensed or certified, with licensure required
   for groups which assume risk. This approach would enable DMHC to
   develop reporting requirements that would allow the state to collect
   complete and accurate data about medical groups that could identify
   more clearly what key factors are causing instability among
   California's medical groups. * Regulation of Medical Groups. You may
   wish to consider legislation establishing regulatory requirements for
   risk-bearing medical groups Hon. Keith Richman 19 December 5, 2001
   comparable to those already in place for health insurance companies.
   The state could require each medical group to maintain a reasonable
   level of financial reserves, a minimal level of working capital, and
   adherence to established cash-ratio standards. * Expand DMHC's Role in
   the Health Plan-Medical Group Relationship. As your may be aware, a
   2000 California legislative proposal which was not enacted, SB 2007
   (Speier), would have significantly expanded DMHC's involvement in the
   health plan and medical group relationship by requiring DMHC to review
   every medical group contract with a health care service plan to
   determine if that contract compromised patient care. Based upon a
   review of criteria such as reimbursement methods and scope of services,
   DMHC could either approve the contract as proposed, or deem the terms
   unenforceable and recommend modifications. You may wish to consider
   that same approach in future legislation. Potential legislation could
   specify certain factors that health care plans would have to take into
   account when negotiating capitation rates with medical groups, such as
   specifying the level and types of risk that providers could bear.
   Another approach would be to consider legislation similar to that
   enacted in North Carolina requiring that HMO premiums be adequate to
   cover anticipated costs. Implementation of any of these proposals would
   probably require a significant increase in DMHC's staffing and budget,
   although these resources could be obtained by imposing assessments on
   medical groups and health care plans. * Consolidating Regulation of the
   Health Insurance Industry. State regulation of the health insurance
   industry is split primarily between the DMHC and DOI. You may wish to
   consider legislation aimed at resolving some of the problems created by
   having two regulatory agencies oversee one industry, such as confusion
   and duplication of efforts in the resolution of consumer complaints
   about health care coverage. As we discussed earlier, the Director of
   DMHC and its Advisory Committee on Managed Care have contracted for a
   study of the feasibility and merit of consolidating regulation of all
   health insurers within DMHC that is due to be completed by the end of
   December. The study could provide the basis for legislation for further
   regulatory reform of the health care industry. * Ensuring That DMHC
   Assessments Are Adequate. Finally, you may wish to consider legislation
   to ensure that DMHC has the financial resources needed to carry out its
   present mission to regulate HMOs. The Bureau of State Audits was
   recently assigned an audit examining the assessments that DMHC imposes
   on health plans to generate revenues for the Managed Care Fund, Hon.
   Keith Richman 20 December 5, 2001 the special fund which supports the
   department's main activities. The basis of this audit is legislative
   concerns that the current statutory formula used to assess fees does
   not properly reflect the relative cost of regulating the different
   types of companies regulated by DMHC. The audit may also shed light on
   whether there is adequate funding for the department to meet its
   assigned responsibilities. The audit is scheduled to begin early next
   year and will take about four months to complete. Please contact Dan
   Carson or Farra Bracht at 319-8350 if you have any questions about the
   information provided in this letter or require any other assistance in
   regard to these issues. The information that you requested on November
   9, 2001 will be provided in a subsequent memorandum. Sincerely,
   Elizabeth G. Hill Legislative Analyst Enclosures Enclosure 1 Department
   of Managed Health Care Draft Budget by Office (in thousands) As of
   October 1, 2001 Personal Services OE&E Total Director's Office 1,944
   903 2,847 Admin Services 2,877 896 3,773 Enforcement 1,552 576 2,128
   Health Plan Oversight 5,874 2,651 8,525 HMO Help Center 3,479 3,745
   7,224 Legal Services 1,672 577 2,249 Technology & Innovations 1,135 477
   1,612 OPA 684 2,805 3,489 1 Total 19,217 12,630 31,847 1 For purposes
   of display, the OPA budget reflects $2,000,000 for Consumer Education
   that is budgeted in the Health Plan Program Source: Department of
   Managed Health Care Enclosure 2 Department of Managed Health Care
   2001-02 Current Year - OE&E (in thousands) Hlth Plan HMO OE&E Oversight
   Help Ctr General Expense 325 138 Printing 35 37 Communications 33 222
   Postage 14 15 Travel In-State 260 39 Travel Out-State 40 1 Training 29
   23 Facilities Operation 589 608 Utilities 1 1 Cons & Prof-Interdept'l
   153 46 Cons & Prof-Ext 538 2,091 Consolidated Data Center 0 0 Data
   Processing 95 100 ProRata 525 413 Equipment 14 11 Total OE&E 2,651
   3,745 Source: Department of Managed Health Care Enclosure 3 Department
   of Managed Health Care Office of Enforcement July 1, 2000 - present
   ACCUSATIONS Matter ID PLAN VIOLATION ACTION/DATE RESOLUTION 00-136
   Baycare Failed to file financial reports. $17,500.00 Charges
   uncontested 7/5/2000 01-043 Community Failure to file financial
   statements $2,500.00 $2,500.00 fine collected Dental 7/27/2001 on
   8/30/2001 01-001 Health Net Failure to provide 30 day notice.
   $30,000.00 $30,000.00 fine collected 2/2/2001 on 2/15/2001 99-282 Ideal
   Dental Fiscal and quality of care issues. $10,000.00 Charges
   uncontested; 9/25/2000 Received 2 of 10, $1,000.00 payments, on
   8/3/2001 and 8/30/2001 98-126 00- Kaiser Failed to provide medically
   necessary $1,100,000.00 Hearing pending 190 treatment and access to
   care amended 12/1/2000 01-067 ProMed Failure to file financial
   statements $5,000.00 $5,000.00 fine collected Health Care 8/16/2001 on
   8/30/2001 00-003 Safeguard Failed to reimburse providers within 30
   days, $2,500.00 $2,500.00 fine collected upstreaming of funds, and
   inadequate 7/11/2000 on 8/2/2000 provision against the risk of
   insolvency. 98-013 United Failed to provide continuity of care and
   $100,000.00 $25,000.00 fine collected Health Care readily available and
   accessible services. 10/5/1999 on 11/9/2000, The plan Administrative
   interference in medical provided exculpatory decisions. evidence which
   resulted in the significant reduction of the penalty. Page 1
   CONSERVATORSHIPS PLAN VIOLATION DATE RESOLUTION 99-196 HealthDent
   Financial issues 7/19/2000 Court appointed Conservator 01-073 Maxicare
   Financial issues 5/25/2001 Court appointed Conservator 01-031 Preferred
   Financial issues 2/8/2001 Director appointed Health Conservator 01-053
   WATTS Financial issues 8/8/2001 Director appointed Health Plan
   Conservator CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS PLAN VIOLATION DATE RESOLUTION
   00-189 Alianza Unlicensed plan 4/13/2001 Plan complied Economica 00-136
   Baycare Failed to file financial reports. 7/5/2000 00-183 Blue Cross
   Failure to provide proper notification and 9/5/2000 continuity of care
   01-079 Blue Shield Transfer of enrollee's 6/7/2001 01-006 Grupo
   Unlicensed plan 8/17/2001 Intermedic 01-006 IMS Unlicensed plan
   8/17/2001 99-069 Latino Unlicensed plan 9/2/2000 Health 01-002
   PacifiCare Failure to pay claims 2/1/2001 $250,000.00 fine collected on
   3/16/2001 C&D Order lifted on 3/8/2001 00-216 Primecare Failure to file
   a material modification for sale 10/24/2000 Dental of office Page 2
   MISCELLANEOUS PLAN VIOLATION DATE RESOLUTION 01-093 Aetna KPC medical
   records/continuity of care 8/20/2001 Plan complied; awaiting signed
   letter of agreement 01-093 Blue Cross KPC medical records/continuity of
   care 8/20/2001 Plan complied; received signed letter of agreement
   01-093 Blue Shield KPC medical records/continuity of care 8/20/2001
   Plan complied; received signed letter of agreement 01-093 Cigna KPC
   medical records/continuity of care 8/20/2001 Plan complied; received
   signed letter of agreement 01-093 Health Net KPC medical
   records/continuity of care 8/20/2001 Plan complied; awaiting signed
   letter of agreement 01-093 Intervalley KPC medical records/continuity
   of care 8/20/2001 Plan complied; awaiting signed letter of agreement
   01-054 Laurel Failure to file final audit 9/21/2001 Collected fine
   $2,500.00 Dental 01-093 MaxiCare KPC medical records/continuity of care
   8/20/2001 Plan complied; awaiting signed letter of agreement 01-093
   PacifiCare KPC medical records/continuity of care 8/20/2001 Plan
   complied; received signed letter of agreement 01-093 SCAN KPC medical
   records/continuity of care 8/20/2001 Plan complied; received signed
   letter of agreement 01-093 Tower KPC medical records/continuity of care
   8/20/2001 Plan complied; received Health signed letter of agreement
   01-093 UHP KPC medical records/continuity of care 8/20/2001 Plan
   complied; awaiting HealthCare signed letter of agreement 01-093
   Universal KPC medical records/continuity of care 8/20/2001 Plan
   complied; received 01-053 WATTS Financial issues 8/8/2001 Health Plan
   Page 3 LETTERS OF AGREEMENT PLAN VIOLATION DATE RESOLUTION 99-283 Aetna
   Failure to pay for prescription drugs 3/6/2001 Collected fine $2,500.00
   01-030 Blue Cross Failure to pay claims within 30 days 2/5/2001
   Collected fine $2,500.00 98-053 Cigna Failure to pay for medically
   necessary care 1/23/2001 Collected fine $10,000.00 00-273 Health Net
   Violated confidential medical records 3/16/2001 Collected fine
   $15,000.00 01-007 Health Net Financial Violation (False Statements)
   4/17/2001 Collected fine $60,000.00 01-025 Heritage P. NFailure to pay
   interest on late claims 10/1/2001 Collected fine $50,000.00 00-182
   Kaiser Releasing medical records without consent. 1/2/2001 Collected
   fine $25,000.00 Failing to file appropriate amendments to operate
   online service. 99-236 PacifiCare Failure to give a timely referral to
   out-of-plan 8/30/2001 Collected fine $25,000.00 specialist. 01-045
   PacifiCare Denial of coverage for needed vitamin 9/13/2001 Collected
   fine $2,500.00 supplements 00-194 Safeguard Failed to pay claims in
   timely manner. 11/7/2000 Collected fine $10,000.00 99-332 Simple Care
   Unlicensed plan 7/25/2000 Stopped business 00-157 Various Warning calls
   were made for Non-compliance 7/19/2000 Plans complied Plans with
   submitting enrollment reports 98-010 Ventura CounDenial of coverage for
   durable medical 7/16/2001 Collected fine $2,500.00 equipment LICENSE
   SURRENDERED/REVOKED PLAN VIOLATION DATE RESOLUTION 00-136 Baycare
   Financial issues 3/1/2001 Surrendered license 98-002 FPA Financial
   issues 5/25/2001 Revoked license 99-282 Ideal Dental Financial issues
   10/31/2000 Pending Page 4 98-027 Laurel DentalVarious 7/25/2000 Revoked
   license 00-243 Priority Plus Various 1/16/2001 Surrendered license
   Note: Per Herb Schultz. The chart is up-to-date, however, because of
   on-going enforcement issues that could get resolved at any time, it can
   change. Page 5
