http://www.ne.nrcs.usda.gov/nrd/lower_loup_nrd.asp

   Lower Loup NRD

   Home NE Photo Gallery Hot Topics and News Directory N R D ' s RC&D
   Helpful Links Technical Resources Programs and Services Career
   Opportunities Volunteer

Lower Loup NRD image      LOWER LOUP NRD

   Office Information

   Catherine Jo W Mills
   District Conservationist
                           North Highway 11
                           P.O. Box 243
                           Ord, NE 68862-0243
                                             Phone: (308) 728-3781
                                             Fax: (308) 728-7917

     Directory for Lower Loup NRD

     District Conservationist Biographical Sketch

     Resource Needs and Concerns

     Priorities Addressed by NRCS

     Primary Programs and Services
   District Conservationist Biographical Sketch
   [mills-cathy.jpg]
   Catherine Jo W Mills
   District Conservationist
   Lower Loup NRD

     1980 Graduated from the University of Nebraska- Lincoln (UNL) with a
   Bachelor of Science degree from the college of Natural Resources, with
   a Wildlife Management and a Range Management option, minor in
   Agricultural Economics

     1983 Graduated from the University of Nebraska- Lincoln (UNL) with a
   Masters of Science degree from the college of Forestry, Fisheries, and
   Wildlife.
   Upon graduation from college, I attended Kansas State University, and
   took additional post-graduate courses while working for Dr. C.E.
   Owensby in the Department of Agronomy.
   I began my NRCS (SCS) career in November of 1984 as a Soil
   Conservationists working in the Loup City Field Office. I was selected
   for the District Conservationist stationed in the St Paul Field Office
   in 1991. Then worked as the District Conservationist for both Howard
   and Sherman Counties, stationed in the Loup City Field Office. I had a
   change in working title to a Resource Conservationist for Sherman
   County in 1995. Began duties at the District Conservationist in the
   Lower Loup Natural Resources District on April 9, 2000.
   The Lower Loup NRD, which is the largest NRD in Nebraska based on a
   geographical area of 1923 square miles, comprises 10.3% of the state of
   Nebraska and 52% of the Loup Basin. All or parts of 15 counties are
   located within the Lower Loup NRD boundaries. Cathie is responsible for
   ten of these 15 counties, including eight field offices and 19 federal
   employees. Field office locations are as follows:
     * Albion (Boone County)
     * Broken Bow (Custer County)
     * Burwell (Garfield, Loup, and Wheeler Counties)
     * Fullerton (Nance County)
     * Loup City (Sherman County)
     * Ord (Valley County)
     * St. Paul (Howard County)
     * Spalding (Greeley County)

   Resource Needs and Concerns
   The Lower Loup NRD resource needs are as varied as the NRD is large.
     * Rangeland and pastureland resource needs are to improve range
       condition through the developemt of water, cross fencing, and
       seeding areas in poor condition, and cedar tree and leafy spurge
       control.
     * Cropland resource needs are to control excessive erosion from both
       wind and water, improve surface and groundwater quality, and
       improve irrigation water management on cropland.
     * Wildlife habitat resource needs include improving existing wildlife
       areas through tree, shrub, and grass plantings.

   Priorities Address by NRCS
   Primary Goals
     * Improve range condition through planned grazing systems on 50,000
       acres with its related practices such as livestock pipelines,
       tanks, wells, cross fencing and brush control.
     * Control excessive erosion on marginal cropland and rangeland
       through range and pasture seeding, proper location of water and
       salt, cross fencing, etc.

   Secondary goals for the Lower Loup Grazingland Management Area are:
     * Improve water quality through sediment retention practices such as
       terraces, crop residue management, conservation cropping sequences,
       cover crops, animal waste management systems, riparian buffer
       strips and other soil loss reduction practices
     * Improve the carrying capacity of rangeland through an aggressive
       cedar tree control program.
     * Initiate a leafy spurge control program through the use of
       biological and chemical controls.

   Primary programs and services
    1. EQIP
       Through the establishment of priority areas and continued efforts
       outside the priority area, cost-share assistance is made available
       to producers in the Lower Loup NRD.
    2. NSWCP
    3. WHIP
    4. Corners for Wildlife Program
    5. Nebraska Buffer Strip Program
    6. CRP
    7. Pheasants Forever Program
    8. WRP


   [blue_bar.gif]
   Partner Links: NRCS | USDA | NACD | FSA | RD | FS | CSREES
   [blue_bar.gif]

   United States Department of Agriculture
   Natural Resources Conservation Service
   Nebraska State Office
   100 Centennial Mall North, Room 152
   Lincoln, NE 68508
   Webmaster
