http://flightprojects.msfc.nasa.gov/fd33.html


        Flight Projects logo
        FD 33
        Payload Systems Group


   Home

   FD 30

        Mission Summary:

        Payload Operations Control Room FD33/The Payload Systems Group performs
        flight command and control functions and manages the onboard Command
        and Data Handling(C&DH) systems that directly support the International
        Space Station (ISS) payloads. These systems and tasks form the backbone
        of the payload operations capability for ISS. Operating from the
        Marshall Space Flight Center's ISS Payload Operations Integration
        Center (POIC) in Huntsville, Alabama, flight controllers from the
        Payload Systems Group monitor and maintain the health of the onboard
        data systems, plan flight system configurations, command onboard
        equipment, and control the downlink and distribution of mission
        critical science and housekeeping data.

        Playing a key role in flight system development, engineers in the
        Payload Systems Group develop preliminary operations concepts for NASA
        flight projects. These concepts are used to develop system requirements
        from the top level all the way down to design specification. System
        modeling and analysis is used to predict performance of both conceptual
        and actual designs as system implementation progresses. These studies
        are used to influence the final system architectures to ensure the
        operational flexibility needed to accomplish mission objectives.

        Responsibilities:

        To accomplish its mission, the Payload Systems Group is responsible for
        training and certifying system flight controllers, developing and
        delivering flight operations procedures and displays used by the ISS
        astronauts onboard ISS, processing and distributing science video, and
        developing software tools to support flight operations.

        Flight Controller Training and Certification

        FD33 classroom The Payload Systems Group ensures the training,
        certification, and readiness of ten different POIC flight controller
        positions supporting payload operations onboard the ISS. These
        personnel undergo a rigorous training program, testing, and performance
        evaluation under stressful flight like simulations. Everything that can
        be done is done to prepare these individuals for the demands of real
        time flight operations.

        Payload Operating Procedures

        The Payload Systems Group is responsible for the development of flight
        and ground procedures necessary for the operations of onboard systems.
        Training is provided to individual payload developers and flight
        controllers. This training teaches the procedure author how to apply
        standards and operations nomenclature as well as how to write clear,
        concise, and user (crew) friendly procedures.

                                 Sample FD33 Procedure

        The majority of procedures used onboard the ISS will be viewed by the
        crew in an electronic format. Running on a laptop computer, the Manual
        Procedure Viewer (MPV) is the onboard software application used by the
        crew to view procedures.

                                          MPV

        Payload Onboard Displays

        EXPRESS Display The Payload Systems Group has the responsibility to
        ensure operability of payload displays and procedures for onboard. It
        is critical that displays be designed in a task oriented fashion to
        enhance overall usability, speed crew training, speed onboard crew
        activities, and prevent introduction of inadvertent errors. The
        rigorous application of Human Computer Interface standards, operations
        analysis, and crew review are used to achieve these ends.

        Integral to the evaluation is use of the Distributed Usability
        Evaluation Tools (DUET). Using the Internet, the DUET system is a
        combination of remote usability testing and wide area network
        communication tools for use by the Payload Systems Group engineers,
        display developers, and reviewers. DUET allows review of crew displays
        by remote (i.e., distributed) evaluators from the initial prototype
        stage through final approval.

        Video Lab

        Video lab, picture 1 The Payload Systems Group Video Lab provides
        emulation of ISS video for assessment by the payload developers. The
        payload developer can submit "test" video that is run through the
        laboratory's Video Baseband Signal Processor (VBSP) simulation in order
        to produce a sample video product that will look Video lab, picture 2
        like real ISS downlink video. The payload developer can use this sample
        video to assess it's suitability for their science operations.

        The Video Lab also processes the post-flight video and photo products
        in preparation for distribution to the U.S. payload users.


        Software Tools

        G2 lab The Payload Systems Group develops software tools to support the
        flight controllers in the ISS Payload Operations Integration Center
        (POIC). "Smart Tools" are employed during flight to assist the flight
        controllers in management of onboard equipment, payloads, and station
        subsystems. These tools monitor telemetry, advise the flight
        controllers on required actions, and support the routine functions of
        command scheduling, file uplink, and limit monitoring.

        Goals:

        The Payload Systems Group's Goals are:
          * Safely operate the ISS payload complement, ISS supporting
            equipment, and achieve mission success.
          * To make the ISS core systems work for the payload developer, our
            customer.
          * To provide rapid accommodation to changing user needs throughout
            the life of the ISS.
          * Enable science in an efficient, effective, and timely way.
