http://isc.gsfc.nasa.gov/PastNews.htm


   ISC Logo
   Use the GO button to trigger SEARCH Use the GO button to trigger SEARCH
     click HERE to goto ADVANCED Search
   __________________ Go
      Home    SiteMap
   Previous ISC News Items
   October 1, 2001
   Code 582 announces new Associate Branch Head -- Ron Zellar will join
   Code 582 on Monday 8/27/01 as a new Associate Branch Head. Ron has been
   working as a contractor for the Navy Research Lab for the last few
   years with an emphasis on GN&C flight software. Welcome aboard Ron!
   Abstracts for papers are requested for the Science Data Processing
   Workshop 2002, to be held February 26-28, 2002 at Martin's Crosswinds,
   Greenbelt, Maryland. Click here for more details.

   July 30, 2001
   Congratulations Joe Hennessy --- Rick Obenschain has selected Joe
   Hennessy as the new Chief for the Information Systems Center (Code
   580). The paperwork for submission to NASA Headquarters and OPM to make
   this selection "official" is underway."

   To see ISC pictures from the June 2001 Technology Showcase CLICK HERE.

   May 20, 2001
   Code 580 is delighted to announce the selection and acceptance of
   Kequan Luu as a Code 582 Associate Branch Head!! Kequan comes to Code
   580 from the Guidance, Navigation and Control Center (Code 570). Kequan
   will be joining Code 582 officially on 5/20/01.
   March 27, 2001
   Best Practice for Knowledge Management Activities Wanted!!!  The NASA
   Knowledge Management Team, chartered by NASA's Chief Information
   Officer, Lee Holcomb (Code AO), is looking at best practices within the
   Agency in activities related to sharing and capturing knowledge. Many
   Goddard Projects and Teams have developed systems, practices or
   applications that allow us to capture, retrieve and re-use information.
   Examples of such practices might include an on-line listing of experts
   and their fields of expertise, a document management system, a physical
   library of books or videos, a collection of lessons learned, or a
   rewards program for employees who share their knowledge. These best
   practices will be used to help shape NASA's approach to how we capture,
   organize, and distribute information within the Agency and with our
   partners.

   If your area is involved in providing any of these services and you
   would like to recommend them as a best practice in the Agency, please
   complete the short survey at http://km-survey.jpl.nasa.gov . Please
   complete the survey by March 27.

   If you have any questions, feel free to contact Steve Naus at
   301-286-5640

   February 1, 2001
   NASA Goddard Space Flight Center Code 588 University Day Workshop.
   Universities are an important element of NASA's overall research and
   development efforts. They not only enable NASA to extend its research
   arm in a cost-effective manner, they also provide highly skilled labor
   to the NASA workforce. The purpose of this workshop is therefore to
   initiate and develop ties between Code 588 and the Maryland, Virginia,
   DC university research communities.

   May 23, 2000
   One of our favorite projects, Operating Missions as Nodes on the
   Internet (OMNI), has been getting some good press lately. Check out our
   Staff Kudos for the details.

   May 4, 2000
   ISC Associate Chief position posted.   One of the two ISC Associate
   Chief positions has just been posted by OHR.   Only current Goddard
   civil servants are eligible to respond to this GS 14/15 vacancy
   announcement which will close on 5/18/00.   Check out the full vacancy
   announcement or contact OHR for more information.

   February 16, 2000
   ISC 1999 Annual Report posted.  Our Annual Report, a comprehensive
   review of last year's accomplishments and handy reference to the entire
   ISC, is now available for browsing and downloading.  We've also added
   links to the ISC Logo Portfolio and Abstract and Paper Publication
   Approval Process to the Administrative page.

   November 30, 1999
   New features added to ISC web site.  We've just added a new area to the
   site, Forums, accessed through the link under "Other Topics" on the
   right below.  Forums is a set of conferences organized around topics of
   interest to the ISC and its friends and customers.  Using your standard
   browser interface you can post messages.  Threads or sets of related
   messages are easily reviewable, the conferences are searchable and you
   can choose to receive e-mail notification of postings to any
   thread.  We're hoping for some lively discussions, so stop on by.

   We've also recently made additions to the Technology area, also
   reachable below on the right.  The ISC Strategic Technology Capability
   Roadmap
   has been posted as well as a Technology Funding Opportunities database.
   We've also started a list of references to ISC technology in the media.

   Nov. 10, 1999
   ISC's Software Engineering Laboratory is sponsoring the 24th annual
   Software Engineering Workshop December 1 - 2.

   Oct. 12, 1999
   Steve Naus/585 and the Microwave Anisotropy Probe (MAP) Simulation
   Team, including Dave McComas/582, have been selected to receive the
   "Best of the Best" Customer Service Excellence Award.  This is an
   annual GSFC award; honorees are selected from all quarterly award
   winners in the past year.  The awards will be presented at the Goddard
   Quality Management Symposium to be held at 8:00 a.m., Friday, October
   15, in the Building 8 Auditorium.

   Sept. 20, 1999
   ISC Award Winners Announced.  Jane Marquart/582 and Bob Schweiss/586
   are the first winners of the ISC Excellence Awards.  Jane and Bob are
   also automatically submitted as the ISC nominees for the AETD
   Excellence in Engineering Award.

   The FY99 ISC Best Paper Award was won by Keith Walyus/581, Dan
   Mandl/584, and Scott Green/583.  The Runner-Up Award went to David
   Simpson/582.  Additionally, Honorable Mentions were awarded to Karl
   Mueller/588, Nigel Ziyad/588, William Potter/584, Carla Matusow/583 and
   Robert Wiegand/583.

   For more information and links to the winning papers, visit our Staff
   Kudos page.

   Sept. 2, 1999
   ISC system used in monitoring Hurricane Dennis.   Steve Bailey of Code
   584 has developed a GPS antenna controller that was used in conjunction
   with the Goddard/Wallops Scanning Radar Altimeter (SRA) flown on NOAA
   AOC Hurricane Hunting flights. The SRA measures the spatial and
   temporal evolution of the storm surge and the associated wave field of
   a landfalling hurricane. It requires extremely accurate GPS information
   to function. Steve's controller ensures that GPS lock is not lost due
   to excessive aircraft roll, which might just happen on a Hurricane
   Hunter. For more information, check out Steve's brief on the project.

   Aug. 26, 1999
   On August 11, the Operating Missions as Nodes on the Internet (OMNI)
   project in Code 588 successfully supported the Eclipse 99 mission in
   the Black Sea. Support from several organizations, including
   contractors and other NASA centers, helped to make this mission fun as
   well as successful.
   Before and during the eclipse event, the OMNI prototype "spacecraft"
   (designed to communicate via TDRSS using 100% pure Internet protocols)
   performed a science mission function. Image, position, and weather
   data, as well as voice data, were returned via TDRSS, and were
   distributed automatically via the web. School children in museum
   sleepovers were able to experience all of this, and were able to take
   turns actually commanding one of the instruments via their web browser.
   The educational outreach activity was organized by the Goddard
   Education Office and the Sun Earth Connection Education Forum.
   The importance of the OMNI support of Eclipse 99 is that it
   demonstrated the feasibility of using commodity standard Internet
   protocols as the basis for science spacecraft communications and also
   served as an educational outreach to school children and the general
   public.
   To see some of the images, QuickTime movies, and other data from the
   mission, access Eclipse 99. Learn more about OMNI here.

   June 8, 1999
   Welcome to NASA/GSFC's new Information Systems Center (ISC) website.
   Over 300 ISC civil servants and their private sector partners
   collaborate with the science community and other customers to meet
   their information technology needs. The ISC provides information
   systems and systems components, and expertise in all phases of the
   implementation process. To further support our customers and maintain
   our expertise we provide leadership and vision in identifying and
   sponsoring new and emerging information systems technologies.

   rounded corner Click Here to goto TOP of page TOP    Home    SiteMap
   rounded corner
           Curator
     NASA Official
                  Priscilla Bowes
                  Joe Hennessy
                                 Security Statement
                                 Privacy Statement
