http://www.tfhrc.gov/eventpix/eventpix.htm

   Skip Repetitive Links. Turner-Fairbank Highway Research Center.
   Menu.

   menu bar.

              TFHRC News & Recent Events

     October 2001

     Research Visits and Laboratory Tours Reach Record Numbers
     How important is the work we do here at the Turner-Fairbank Highway
     Research Center (TFHRC)? Important enough to attract a record number
     of visitors. The number of tours so far in 2001 has already exceeded
     last year’s total by 41 percent, and... [more].

     July 2001

     Career Day Provides Opportunity for Children to Learn About
     Engineering
     Photo Caption: Deborah Curtis explains how engineers use common
     items in their work every day. Presenting a Career Day provides a
     challenge for seasoned transportation personnel who want to share
     their expertise and enthusiasm with grade school students. Making
     simple concepts sound complicated is easy; making the complicated
     simple takes creativity. One FHWA engineer was up for the
     challenge... [more].

     Sharing TFHRC's Success Stories
     Learn more about our research regarding traffic simulation, traffic
     control, and safety performance of roadside hardware, and more in
     the July Innovation Connection Get the Adobe Acrobat Reader. (PDF
     file - 70KB).

     June 2001

     FHWA Research Engineer Wins Arthur S. Flemming Award Promoted
     Advanced Bridge Inspection Technologies
     Glenn A. Washer, a research structural engineer at the U.S.
     Department of Transportation's Federal Highway Administration
     (FHWA), has been named a recipient of the prestigious Arthur S.
     Flemming award... [more]

     May 2001

     Logo. National Transportation Week
     May 13-19, 2001
     This week provides opportunities for the transportation community to
     join together to promote greater public awareness of the importance
     and benefits of transportation and to encourage youth to consider
     transportation-related careers... [more]

     April 2001

     We Remember... April 19, 2001 is the sixth anniversary of the
     bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Office Building in Oklahoma
     City. We honor those we lost and those who survived to carry on the
     work of the Agency.

     March 2001

     Sharing TFHRC's success stories... Innovation Connection Logo. Learn
     more about our research regarding traffic control, ramp metering,
     ultra-high performance concrete and more in the March Innovation
     Connection Get the Adobe Acrobat Reader. (PDF file - 91KB).

     February 2001

     Dr. Hamid Ghasemi Named FHWA Engineer of the Year

     Congressional Tour of TFHRC
     December 2000

     TFHRC Researchers Are Actively Involved in TRB Meeting
     November 2000

     U.S.-Japan Workshop on Advanced Technology in Highway Engineering
     National Transportation Safety Board Members Visit TFHRC
     The International Laboratory Accreditation Consortium Visits TFHRC


      What's New | About TFHRC | Our Products | Our Research | Support
                                  Services
    Library | Periodicals | Other Resources | Site Map | Search | Privacy
                              Notice | Feedback
                        TFHRC Home | FHWA | U.S. DOT

                      http://www.tfhrc.gov/eventpix.htm
