http://dca.ca.gov/aboutdca/morabout.htm

        Welcome to the Department of Consumer Affairs (800) 952-5210

               DCA Home Page Disclaimer About DCA What's New?
   Publications Press Releases Consumer Information Licensee Information


                               More about the
                       Department of Consumer Affairs

   DCA At A Glance   The Department of Consumer Affairs is here to help
   Californians be careful consumers and to protect them from unscrupulous
   and unqualified individuals. Our role is also to protect our licensees
   from unfair competition from unlicensed practitioners.

   DCA Today   The Department of Consumer Affairs comprises 36 entities (8
   bureaus, 3 programs, 24 boards, 5 committees, and 1 commission) that
   license more than 2.6 million Californians in more than 180 different
   professions. These entities establish minimum qualifications and levels
   of competency for licensure; license, register, or certify
   practitioners; investigate complaints; and discipline violators.
   Boards, committees, and the commission are semiautonomous bodies whose
   members are appointed by the Governor and the Legislature. DCA provides
   them administrative support. DCA operations are funded exclusively by
   license fees.

   DCA Past   One of the California Legislature’s earliest efforts to
   protect the public by overseeing the state’s professions and
   occupations was through the passage of the Medical Practice Act in
   1876. The Act was designed to regulate the state’s medical industry,
   which up to that time had operated virtually unchecked. Over the next
   thirty years, additional professions and vocations were brought under
   state authority. By the late 1920s, ten state boards were in existence
   under the Department of Vocational and Professional Standards,
   licensing or certifying accountants, architects, barbers,
   cosmetologists, dentists, embalmers, optometrists, pharmacists,
   physicians, and veterinarians. The Consumer Affairs Act of 1970 gave
   the Department its current name.

   DCA Tomorrow   In 1995, the State Legislature began the three-year
   process of reviewing the Department’s boards, commissions, committees,
   bureaus, and programs to determine which of them should be retained,
   which should be "sunsetted," and which functions should be incorporated
   into the Department. The Sunset Review process will ensure that only
   those programs necessary to protect consumers from actual risk to their
   health, safety, or welfare continue to be regulated by the state and
   that the regulation is done in the most cost-effective and efficient
   manner. Those boards/committees that are sunsetted by the Legislature
   will become inoperative in the year 1998, 1999, or 2000; their
   regulatory role, absent further legislation, will then move to DCA.

                              Mission Statement


   Major DCA Functions   Licensing, Education, Enforcement, Consumer
   Hotline, Mediation, Smog Check, Where can I get more information?
