http://www.gwvi.ncr.gov/ltrrept.html

   TO: Secretary William Cohen, Department of Defense
   Secretary Donna Shalala, Department of Health and Human Services
   Secretary Jesse Brown, Department of Veterans Affairs

   FR: Presidential Advisory Committee on Gulf War Veterans' Illnesses

   RE: Supplemental letter report

   DA: April 30, 1997

   On January 30, 1997, the President issued Executive Order 13034 (
   attachment A), which extended the tenure of the Presidential Advisory
   Committee on Gulf War Veterans' Illnesses and charged it with two
   tasks: continued oversight of the government's investigations related
   to possible chemical and biological warfare agent exposure incidents
   and implementation of the recommendations of our Final Report. On
   February 26, 1997, the President specifically asked the Committee to
   evaluate the adequacy of the government's response to his concerns
   about the implications of recently declassified documents associated
   with chemical munitions at the Khamisiyah storage depot ( attachment
   B).

   This supplemental letter report provides the Committee's response to
   the President's requests. It first addresses issues related to the
   President's February 1997 directive. A status report on the tasks
   specified by Executive Order 13034 follows.

   THE PRESIDENT'S MEMORANDUM

   The concerns expressed by the President in his February 1997 memorandum
   centered on recently declassified documents pertaining to the
   Khamisiyah Ammunition Storage Depot and U.S. troop demolition
   activities at this site. He posed the following questions:
     * What is the significance of recently declassified documents
       regarding February 1991 warnings to the U.S. Army about chemical
       warfare agents (CW) at Khamisiyah and November 1991 suspicions of
       CW exposure of U.S. troops at Khamisiyah?
     * When did we have sufficient evidence to conclude that chemical
       munitions were present at Khamisiyah and that U.S. forces
       conducting demolition activities may have been exposed to chemical
       warfare agents?
     * Once we had that information, what actions were taken by whom to
       investigate this alarming possibility, and were those actions
       sufficient?

   Beyond the Department of Defense's (DOD) broad inquiry into Gulf War
   illnesses via the Office of the Special Assistant for Gulf War
   Illnesses (OSAGWI), the Committee identified five ongoing
   investigations by various government entities that pertain to these
   questions. Attachment C summarizes the scope and nature of these five
   efforts; a later section of this report discusses the Committee's
   oversight of OSAGWI-related matters.

   Based on its review of existing documents (classified and
   unclassified), briefings, and interviews, the Committee makes several
   findings regarding the adequacy of the government's response and
   answers to the President's questions.

   The Evidence and Its Significance
     * The recently declassified documents indicate substantial
       mismanagement and lack of communication among elements of the
       military and intelligence communities, but have no substantial
       impact on the findings and recommendations of the Committee's Final
       Report. We concluded that the evidence of chemical agent release at
       Khamisiyah was overwhelming. The documents do not alter that
       finding.
     * The intelligence community (including CIA and DOD-based entities)
       clearly possessed information prior to and during the Gulf War that
       constituted reasonable cause for concern that Khamisiyah was a
       chemical munitions storage facility. Current evidence indicates
       this knowledge was obtained at least as early as the mid-1980s,
       during the Iran-Iraq war.
     * Operational records reveal that concerns about the presence of
       chemical munitions at Khamisiyah were conveyed to some level of the
       military services prior to the March 1991 ground-based demolition
       activities. It is not clear whether the appropriate commanders were
       aware of the heightened concern about Khamisiyah compared to other
       storage depots. Currently, it appears the information did not pass
       from one command to another when responsibility for the Khamisiyah
       site changed hands.
     * No later than December 1991, the intelligence community, military
       services, and any other U.S. government entity concerned about
       followup to the Gulf War had, or should have had, possession of
       classified and/or public documents that establish reasonable cause
       for concern that U.S. forces conducting ground-based demolition
       activities at Khamisiyah could have been exposed to chemical
       warfare agents. The U.S. government acquired additional information
       that substantiated those reasons for concern during 1992.
     * Executive Branch departments and agencies made no serious effort to
       examine the possibility of chemical warfare agent exposure to U.S.
       troops at Khamisiyah until late 1995, despite inquiries prior to
       that time by Congress and DOD's Defense Science Board Task Force.
     * In the face of substantial, credible evidence to the contrary,
       DOD's consistent denials to June 1996 of the possibility of
       exposure of U.S. troops to chemical warfare agents cannot be
       justified. Initially DOD forfeited opportunities to gain
       information with potential military significance and ultimately
       undermined its credibility with much of the American public.

   Adequacy of Ongoing Activities
     * The activities of the Inspectors General for the U.S. Army and
       Central Intelligence Agency, alone, cannot provide answers to the
       questions posed by the President.

     * The effort of the Assistant to the Secretary of Defense
       (Intelligence Oversight) is likely to gather the data necessary to
       answer the questions posed by the President-up to the question of
       sufficiency. However, no entity has the clear action on integrating
       the data to provide a comprehensive assessment of the
       government-wide response to Khamisiyah and actions needed for the
       future.
     * The scope of the question of sufficiency in the President's third
       question needs to be clarified-i.e., is the goal to ensure
       accountability by individuals and institutions responsible for
       chemical and biological warfare safety and service members' health,
       or is the goal to establish and to ensure implementation of more
       effective policies and procedures? Fulfilling the latter goal
       requires a means of integrating the multiple efforts.
     * Presidential-level policy councils, such as the National Security
       Council or the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board,
       should be well suited to the task of integrating the results of the
       multiple efforts into a comprehensive government policy. This
       Committee is not the appropriate entity to address this matter.

   OVERSIGHT OF CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL WARFARE AGENT INVESTIGATIONS

   With respect to the Committee's mandate to oversee the government's
   chemical and biological warfare agent investigations, we address three
   issues in this letter report: exposure modeling of demolitions at the
   Khamisiyah pit area, the Committee's access to information held by DOD,
   and standards for assessing the credibility of reported detection or
   exposure incidents.

   Modeling for the Khamisiyah Pit Area

   Since Summer 1996, the Committee has requested exposure modeling of
   March 1991 demolition activities conducted by U.S. troops at the
   Khamisiyah pit area. CIA and DOD have testified to the Committee on
   multiple occasions about technical and logistical complications they
   believe are responsible for the lack of progress in this area.

   The Committee fully appreciates the complexities of this issue, but it
   appears the passage of time has done nothing to improve the data inputs
   for the computer simulation of events at the pit. The expert review
   process (underway since November 1996) mighthelp to establish a
   baseline for data collection to assist with future modeling efforts,
   but appears only to exacerbate problems with the lack of data from the
   pit (e.g., introducing a requirement for far more weather data than was
   collected at Khamisiyah). On April 18, 1997, DOD and CIA informed the
   Committee that modeling results for the Khamisiyah pit area will not be
   available until July 21 ( attachment D) because they plan to conduct
   demolition tests to collect additional data on the amount and rate of
   agent release. According to a letter from DOD and CIA to the Committee,
   the small-scale tests are not designed to replicate conditions at
   Khamisiyah and will not eliminate uncertainties about agent release.

   The Committee notes federal law requires civilian sector industries
   working with hazardous materials to perform exposure modeling as a
   routine matter to evaluate potential accidents and emergency responses.
   In particular, both the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of
   1986 (SARA), Title III, Emergency Preparedness and Community Right to
   Know (42 U.S.C.11003) and the Clean Air Act reauthorization of 1990 (42
   U.S.C.7412), have mandated this practice for at least a decade.
   Clearly, it is impossible to predict the exact nature of a large
   unintended release or when it might occur; such hazardous material
   modeling relies on the most general estimates of weather and amounts of
   material released. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), which
   administers the laws, allows wide flexibility on which model to use.
   Under EPA rules, industries must model a range of scenarios, including
   a worst-case possibility. Modeling results are publicly available,
   enabling citizens to evaluate possible risks. The Committee believes
   veterans deserve a similar, though retrospective, opportunity.

   Hence the Committee finds:
     * None of the barriers raised to date by CIA and DOD presents
       insurmountable obstacles or in any way warrants the delay in
       completing modeling for the Khamisiyah pit. Uncertainties-including
       the number of demolition incidents, the number of rockets involved,
       or the stability of the agent and other characteristics of the
       chemical agent under specific demolition conditions-can be
       accommodated through modeling a range of scenarios, including a
       worst-case scenario.

   Access to Information

   Shortly after the President extended the term of this Committee and
   asked us to oversee the government's investigations of possible
   chemical exposure incidents, DOD raised the Privacy Act as a shield
   against the Committee's unfettered access to information held by DOD
   related to CBW incidents. Regulations published to implement the Act,
   including regulations published in December 1995 after this Committee's
   inception, have the effect of limiting our ability to oversee, monitor,
   or independently evaluate the quality of DOD's investigation of
   possible chemical or biological warfare agent exposures. We note for
   the record that the Committee's interpretation of the law and
   regulations is that ample ambiguity exists to allow us full access
   immediately. In April 1997, following our repeated requests, DOD
   finally took action that may eventually remove some barriers to the
   Committee's oversight activities. Currently we remain guarded in our
   assessment of DOD's willingness to provide access to information
   critical to our work.

   Standards for Evaluating Detection or Exposure Incidents

   OSAGWI has yet to articulate clear standards for determining the
   credibility of reported detection or exposure incidents, other than to
   assert reliance on the "best evidence" rule and to establish
   "preponderance of the evidence" as the standard of proof. The Committee
   believes that for matters involving the health of veterans, adherence
   to courtroom standards of evidence is inappropriate. As the Committee
   said in its Final Report, "In the face of credible evidence of the
   presence or release of chemical warfare agents, low-level exposure of
   U.S. personnel at the affected site must be presumed while efforts to
   develop more precise measures of exposure continue. . . . Troops within
   the presumptive exposure area should be notified and encouraged to
   enroll in the CCEP or Registry." Hence the Committee notes that:
     * DOD should move as quickly as possible toward conclusions about the
       incidents under investigation and, when in doubt, err in favor of
       targeted notification of troops about possible health risks and the
       availability of free diagnosis and treatment programs established
       by the government.

   IMPLEMENTATION

   The Committee appreciates the departments' efforts to develop and
   transmit their responses to the recommendations of our Final Report
   regarding outreach, medical and clinical issues, research, and chemical
   and biological warfare investigations. Over the coming months, we will
   monitor the implementation of these responses and report any new
   findings and recommendations related to them in the supplemental final
   report (hereinafter referred to as Special Report).

   NEXT STEPS

   The Committee will continue assessing the government's chemical and
   biological weapons investigations, chiefly the activities of DOD's
   OSAGWI, and implementation of the Final Report's recommendations in
   outreach, clinical issues, and research. In particular, we feel it
   important that we assess certain key detection incidents including, but
   not limited to, case reports under development by OSAGWI ( attachment
   E). We believe this letter report addresses the President's tasks to
   the Committee in his February 26, 1997 memorandum, though the Special
   Report will summarize any new information derived from reports of the
   CIA Inspector General, DOD Inspector General, Army Inspector General,
   Assistant to the Secretary of Defense (Intelligence Oversight), and
   Director of Central Intelligence Persian Gulf War Illnesses Task Force.
   If-due to delays in resolving problems with the Committee's access to
   information-we foresee a need to request an extension of the Special
   Report's delivery date beyond October 31, 1997, we will of course
   inform you at the first opportunity.

   Transmitted on behalf of the Committee,

   Joyce C. Lashof, MD
   Committee Chair
