http://www.baltimorecity.gov/neighborhoods/


   Home
   What's New
   F.A.Q.
   Neighborhoods
   City Services
   Government
   Mayor
   Search
   *****

                              [livebaltobw.jpg]

       Live Baltimore - Your #2 resource for living in Baltimore City!

   Neighborhoods


               Mayor O'Malley's Weekly Neighborhood News Flash
    Applications for Baltimore's Neighborgood Program Now Being Accepted

                           [USEMAP:districts.jpg]

                                [porchbw.jpg]

   Northwest

   North

   Northeast

   Southwest

   West

   Central

   East

   Southeast

   South

                     The Mayor's Office of Neighborhoods
                  A New Neighborhood Strategy for Baltimore
                       Baltimore Main Streets Program
                  Mayor's Healthy Neighborhoods Initiative
                   Baltimore's Neighborgood Grant Program

                        Community Development Toolbox

   Numerous tools and opportunities exist for community development
   programs affecting neighborhood commercial corridors. These can be used
   in conjunction with Baltimore Main Streets or by themselves.

   The Baltimore Neighborhood Indicators Alliance: An accessible online
   neighborhood information system that enhances community improvement
   efforts by recording and telling the complete story about our
   neighborhoods. BNIA uses maps as the primary way to distribute data.
   Maps can show a variety of data items about a specific area.

   Development Credit Fund: The Development Credit Fund and its affiliate,
   the Community Lending Group, assist minority and woman owned businesses
   in the Baltimore City area with accessing capital at competitive
   interest rates.

   The Enterprise Foundation is dedicated to bringing lasting improvements
   to distressed communities. Enterprise is a national, nonprofit housing
   and community development organization.

   Main Street Maryland: Main Street Maryland is the state-wide version of
   Baltimore Main Streets.  Main Street Maryland works primarily with
   Marylands smaller towns and communities using the Main Street
   Four-Point Approach.  The Main Street Maryland network consists of the
   communities of Cumberland, Easton, Oakland, Denton and Westminster.

   Maryland Downtown Development Association (MDDA) is a statewide
   organization of professionals aggressively promoting the health and
   vitality of Marylands downtowns and traditional commercial business
   districts.  MDDA sponsors annual conferences, publishes a newsletter
   and promotes professional development through networking and mentoring
   events.

   Maryland Historic Trust (MHT): The Maryland Historic Trust has
   financial resources available for communities seeking to protect and
   enhance their historic assets.  Grants are available both for capital
   (i.e. renovation) and non-capital (i.e. planning, historic designation)
   uses.

   Maryland Department of Housing and Community Development (DHCD): The
   Maryland Department of Housing and Community Development has a number
   of resources to assist communities in revitalizing their commercial
   corridors.  These include the Neighborhood Business Development Program
   and the Neighborhood Partnership Program.

   Maryland Association of Nonprofit Organizations (MANO): The Maryland
   Association of Nonprofit Organizations is a statewide membership
   organization.  MANO provides technical assistance to its members on
   such issues as 501c3 certification, employee benefits and board
   education and training.

   The Neighborhood Design Center (NDC) is among the oldest nonprofit
   organizations in the country marshaling countless volunteer hours by
   design professionals in the fields of architecture, landscape
   architecture, engineering (among others) in order to support the City's
   urban revitalization efforts.

City-Wide Organizations

   1000 Friends of Maryland
   Associated Black Charities of Maryland
   Baltimore Neighborhoods, Inc. (BNI)
   Coalition to End Childhood Lead Poisoning
   Community Law Center
   CPHA's Resource Center for Neighborhoods
   Grass Roots Online
   Parks And People Foundation
   Preservation Maryland
   Safe and Sound: Baltimore's Campaign for Children and Youth

   Home | News | Government | Business | Services | Neighborhoods | Mayor
                             | Visitor | Search

                                  Webmaster

                         Revised: December 18, 2001
