http://www2.bfrl.nist.gov/profiles/profiles.asp?lastname=palmer

   . . . . . . . . . . .
   BFRL Staff | Mark E. Palmer
   . Link to NIST .
   .
   Link to Home Link to Research Areas Link to BFRL Publications Link to
   BFRL Software Link to BFRL Staff Information Link to Contact
   Information Link to Ask the Experts Section .

                     Contact Info.   Contact Information

   Photograph of Mark Palmer   Mark Palmer is a project leader at the
   Building and Fire Research Laboratory of the National Institute of
   Standards and Technology (NIST). Mr. Palmer conducts research on the
   integration of information technology (IT) to improve engineering,
   manufacturing and construction. He works with the process, power,
   shipbuilding, and engineering industries to eliminate barriers to
   advanced uses of IT over the life cycle of engineered facilities.
   Currently, Mr. Palmer directs the NIST cooperative development and
   deployment work with PlantSTEP, Inc., an industry consortium, and
   provides technical guidance to FIATECH, the industry program to achieve
   Fully Integrated and Automated Project Processes. Mr. Palmer leads the
   NIST project “Product Data Standards for Industrial Facilities”, the
   Construction Industry Institute project “Improve Construction Supply
   Chain Performance”, and the international project to extend the data
   exchange capabilities of the ISO STEP application protocol 227, “ISO
   10303-227: Plant Spatial Configuration”.
   Prior to joining NIST, Mr. Palmer spent 14 years working in the
   engineering and construction of residential, commercial, and industrial
   facilities. Mr. Palmer received his Bachelor of Architecture degree
   from the University of Oregon. He received his Master of Science degree
   from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and specialized in the
   integration of CAD/CAE systems, knowledge systems, and quality
   management principles.


Mark E. Palmer

Education

   University of Oregon, B.Arch., 1982 Massachusetts Institute of
   Technology, M.S., 1985

Position

   Research Mechanical Engineer
   Computer Integrated Construction Group
   Building Environment Division
   Building and Fire Research Laboratory

                                Graphic Rule

     Privacy Statement/Security Notice  |  Disclaimer  |  FOIA

   NIST is an agency of the U.S. Commerce Department's Technology
   Administration.

   Link to NIST Centennial Site
                                                                 BFRL Logo

                           Date created: 3/21/2001
                           Last updated: 5/7/2001
