http://oklahoma.casu.gov/about.htm


   SmallOK

   Links:

   OK CASU Home

   OK CASU Services

   OK CASU Customers

   About the OK CASU

   Give us your Feedback!

   Other Links:

   FAA Aeronautical Center (CASU Support Agency)

   Oklahoma Federal Executive Board

   National CASU Website
















                           About the Oklahoma CASU

   In early Fiscal Year 1996, the FAA, acting on behalf of the Department
   of Transportation (DOT), submitted an application to establish a
   franchise fund. The application was endorsed by the Entrepreneurial
   Government Committee to the President’s Chief Financial Officers’ (CFO)
   Council. The FAA Administrative Services Franchise Fund was authorized
   under Public Law 104-205, the Transportation Department FY 1997
   Appropriation Act as "franchise-like." Legislative authority was
   continued in FY 1998 and FY 1999.

   The FAA Administrative Services Franchise Fund began operation in
   October 1996 with seven initial service activities: accounting,
   payroll, travel, multi-media, printing, information technology, and
   international training. Information technology is located at the
   Northwest Mountain Region in Renton, Washington while the other six
   activities are located at the Mike Monroney Aeronautical Center (MMAC)
   in Oklahoma City. The Center for Management Development at Palm Coast,
   Florida, was added to the FAA franchise fund in FY 1998.

   The Oklahoma CASU is a subset of services provided by the FAA
   Administrative Services Franchise Fund. Specifically, it is comprised
   of common administrative services that are located at the FAA’s Mike
   Monroney Aeronautical Center in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma – Printing and
   Distribution, Multi-Media (Video Production, Grahics, and Photo), and
   Financial Services (Accounting, Travel and Transportation, and
   Payroll).

   An interagency Management Council governs the Franchise Fund. The
   council was established at the FAA Headquarters level to determine
   activities to be included in and withdrawn from the fund, identify and
   resolve problems in fund operations, and monitor, review and address
   policy matters relating to board activities.

   The goal of the FAA Administrative Franchise Fund is to lower the
   operating costs of the Federal Government by capitalizing on economies
   of scale, lower overhead cost, improve quality, and provide better
   service to the public. The Oklahoma CASU, by offering common support
   services to all agencies in Oklahoma, will help support this goal. To
   facilitate success, the CASU looks to the Oklahoma Federal Executive
   Board Policy Council to act as the Interagency Customer Advisory Board
   to provide feedback on quality of service, assist in outreach to local
   agencies, and help gather information on possible expansion of services
   to customer agencies.
