http://www.phppo.cdc.gov/documents/stateinventory.PDF

   Public Health Improvement Act State Public Health Agency Capacity
   Inventory November 7, 2001 DRAFT These documents are provided for
   information and comment and not for data collection 1 Table of Contents
   Chapter Page Number System
   Readiness..............................................................
   ..3
   Laboratory.............................................................
   ..............8
   Epidemiology/Surveillance..............................................
   ......12 Information
   Systems............................................................17
   Communication..........................................................
   .........21
   Workforce..............................................................
   ............25 Policy and
   Evaluation...........................................................30
   2 System Readiness 3 System Readiness Collaboration and Coordination 1.
   Does the public health agency establish formal partnerships (e.g.,
   memoranda of understanding, other written agreements) with community
   organizations or entities that contribute to the delivery of the
   Essential Public Health Services to assure coordination of public
   health activities? Y N 2. Does the public health agency maint ain a
   roster of personnel and contact information who have the technical
   expertise to respond to potential public health problems within 1 hour?
   Y N If yes, which of the following personnel does the roster include:
   Chemists Emergency management Environmental health scientists/engineers
   GIS Specialists Hazardous Materials Response Teams Health physicist
   Industrial hygienists Infectious disease specialists Law enforcement
   Medical examiners/coroner Mental health professionals Microbiologists
   National Guard Occupation health physicians Public health informatics
   specialists Safety engineers/safety management State epidemiologists
   State public health laboratory director Toxicologists Veterinarians If
   yes,Are these personnel actively engaged in reviewing and up dating (as
   needed) the emergency response plan at least annually? Y N Does the
   public health agency inform these personnel about current health issues
   at least monthly? Y N Does the public health agency provide or arrange
   for training on biological, chem ical, radiological agents and mass
   casualty events to these personnel at least annually? Y N Evaluation 3.
   Does the public health agency conduct an evaluation of community public
   health activities every three to five years that includes an assessment
   of the effectiveness of linkages and relationships among organizations
   within the public health system? Y N 4 4. Does the public health agency
   use community assessment data to identify populations who may encounter
   barriers to the receipt of personal health se rvices? Y N Emergency
   Response Planning and Organizational Roles 5. Has the public health
   agency identified facilities within the jurisdiction that are suitable
   for Emergency Operations Centers for public health operations? Y N If
   yes, has the public he alth agency identified suitable alternate
   facilities for operations in the event that their regular facility is
   uninhabitable? Y N 6. Does the public health agency have written
   agreements on public health roles with organization(s) that have been
   given th e command and control responsibility for emergency
   preparedness, response, and recovery efforts in their jurisdiction? Y N
   If yes, how often are the written agreements reviewed and updated?
   Semi-annually Annually Every 2 years Every 3 years Other ________
   _______________________________ 7. Does the public health agency have
   an emergency preparedness and response plan? Y N If yes, which of the
   following does the plan include? Organizational responsibilities and
   relationships among local, district, regi on, State, and Federal
   response agencies for varying levels of response Identification of
   community organizations that have a role in responding to biological,
   chemical, or radiological exposure Alternative treatment facilities to
   accommodate increased pat ient loads in the event of a mass casualty
   incident Roster of local medical facilities capable of handling
   laboratory specimens Roster of local medical facilities capable of
   handling victims of exposure Roster of local veterinary facilities
   capable of hand ling laboratory specimens Roster of local veterinary
   facilities capable of handling affected animals Roster of trauma
   centers capable of handling victims of exposure Coordination with the
   local poison control center Procedures for updating the emergency p
   reparedness and response plan Guidelines for addressing environmental
   decontamination issues Guidelines for worker safety for those dealing
   with facilities, humans and animals exposed to biological, chemical, or
   radiological agents (e.g., the availability and use of personal
   protective equipment or other protective measures and documentation of
   adequate antimicrobial chemoprophylaxis) Guidelines for reviewing
   activities conducted during a response or exercise to correct
   deficiencies Guidelines for conducti ng environmental surveys to
   determine the degree and extent of contamination Guidelines for
   developing environmental containment, control, and mitigation plans
   Protocol for coordinating public health responsibilities with law
   enforcement responsibilities Protocol for mutual aid agreements with
   surrounding jurisdictions including military installations Protocol for
   implementing an emergency epidemiological investigation for human and
   animal exposures Protocol for activating and maintaining emergency
   commun ications systems with system partners Protocol for implementing
   evacuation and mass casualty transportation 5 Protocols for assisting
   special populations who may encounter barriers to health services
   during an emergency Protocol for initiating the public hea lth response
   when a device is found that may contain a biological, chemical,
   radiological, or explosive agent Protocol for critical incident stress
   counseling for victims or response personnel, including public health
   and medical professionals Protocol for protecting care -providers,
   emergency response workers, and victims from secondary exposures
   Protocol for decontamination of patients upon their arrival at the
   treatment facility Protocol for ensuring that contamination of
   treatment facilities does not oc cur when patients are evaluated or
   treated Protocol for decontaminating mass casualties (pre -hospital)
   Protocol for instituting mass isolation within a health facility
   Protocol for transferring patients outside of the LPHS Protocol for
   incorporating state and federal assets into the local response efforts
   (i.e. National Disaster Medical System (NDMS), Disaster Medical
   Assistance teams (DMAT), National Pharmaceutical Stockpile (NPS) etc.)
   Procedures for organizing and coordinating volunteers and providing b
   asic needs, including individual health care providers and emergency
   response workers, during a disaster Procedures for obtaining
   pharmaceuticals, antidotes, and protective equipment Protocol for
   instituting mass vaccinations or medication distribution inc luding the
   priority of distribution of vaccines and medications to first
   responders and medical/health care providers Protocol for responding to
   mass mortuary needs 8. Has the public health agency developed
   activation procedures and notification protocol s for the emergency
   response plan? Y N 9. Are state and local emergency response plans
   integrated with each other? Y N 10. Is the public health agency
   integrated into a community -wide emergency response plan? Y N
   Enforcement of Laws, Rules, and Regulati ons 11. For which of the
   following does the public health agency have the legal authority to
   enforce public health laws and regulations? Close facilities in a
   health emergency Declare appropriate procedures for the management of
   fatalities and safe handl ing of dead bodies (both human and animal)
   Detain persons exposed to a biological agent Establish quarantine in
   the event of a suspected biological, chemical, or radiological release
   Order evacuation of the community Require exposed persons to accept ma
   ndatory vaccinations and/or drug therapy Require mandatory medical
   examination of exposed persons Require mandatory tracking and follow
   -up of exposed or injured persons Require the collection of specimens
   and the performance of tests on exposed persons a nd animals Require
   the decontamination of exposed property Require the reporting of new
   diseases, injuries, and illness clusters Restriction of travel into and
   out of contaminated areas Seize and destroy contaminated property Surge
   Capacity 12. For wh ich of the following services has the public health
   agency identified resources (i.e., personnel, financial, facilities,
   equipment, and supplies) to increase capacity in the case of a five
   -fold increase in patient admissions to the health care sector? Adult
   medicine beds 6 Burn unit beds Intensive Care Units (ICU) beds Medical
   transport vehicles Mortuary Space Multiple trauma beds Pediatric beds
   Respiratory isolation units Respiratory ventilators 13. For which of
   the following public health functions has the public health agency
   identified resources (i.e., personnel, financial, facilities,
   equipment, and supplies) for surge capacity? Surveillance Epidemiologic
   investigation Laboratory (Biological and Environmental samples)
   Communication Medical response Preventive care (e.g., prophylaxis,
   quarantine, protective equipment, etc.) Evaluation 14. If the public
   health agency has an emergency response plan, has it been implemented
   or exercised in response to a real event within the past 12 months? Y N
   15. Has th e public health agency responded to a "hoax" (e.g., a letter
   or package threatening to contain a potentially harmful biological
   agent or a bomb threat at a nuclear facility) within the past 12
   months? Y N If yes, do current policies reflect the lessons learned
   from the real or hoax event? Y N 16. Does the public health agency have
   a mechanism to review the experiences and knowledge gained from real or
   hoax events to correct deficiencies in the emergency preparedness plan?
   Y N 7 Laboratory 8 Laboratory S ervices Partnerships and Communication
   1. Does the State Public Health Lab (SPHL) have a focus on
   communicating with private and other public laboratories in the state
   that includes: A full time position that coordinates services with the
   private sector? Comprehensive test menu and submission guidelines on
   the web? Use of internet for emergency or routine updates to all
   private and public laboratories in the state (with acknowledgement of
   receipt)? Broadcast fax capabilities? 2. Has the SPHL established
   written regional agreements with other states or private laboratories
   to provide reference - testing services that may not be cost effective
   or practical to provide within the state laboratory? Y N 3. Does the
   SPHL assess the capabilities and capacities for testing of public
   health importance (e.g. TB, STD, food borne illnesses) in private and
   other public health laboratories and maintain a database of these
   capabilities? Y N 4. Has the SPHL established written regional
   agreements with other states to provi de contingency testing services
   (other than neonatal screening) in the event of a public health crisis
   such as interrupted service from the SPHL? Yes No If yes, are the
   following capabilities available? Molecular typing of organisms for
   epidemiology (e.g. , DNA fingerprinting) Biosafety Level 3 (BSL3)
   testing (other than TB) for unusual pathogens? Molecular methods (e.g.,
   PCR) for direct detection of organisms? Clinical and environmental
   toxicology testing? Reference and Specialized Testing 5. Does the SP HL
   act as a reference laboratory or have formal agreements with another
   reference laboratory (other than CDC) for local public health,
   hospital, and independent laboratories to access: Molecular typing of
   organisms for epidemiology (e.g. fingerprinting)? Biosafety Level 3
   (BSL3) testing (other than TB) for unusual pathogens? Molecular methods
   (e.g. PCR) for direct detection of organisms? Clinical and
   environmental toxicology testing? Laboratory Improvement and Regulation
   6. Does the SPHL assess and monito r the use of voluntary standards and
   laboratory practice guidelines for testing of public health importance
   (e.g. antimicrobial resistance, TB, STD, food borne illnesses) in
   private and other public health laboratories? Y N Training and
   Education 7. Does the SPHL have a training program for the laboratory
   workforce in private and other public health laboratories in the state
   that: Collaborates with the National Laboratory Training Network
   (NLTN)? Is developed in -house by the SPHL? 9 Policy Development 8.
   Does the SPHL have an advisory committee or other mechanism to directly
   meet with private and local public health laboratories and programs to
   determine what services should be available? Y N Integrated Data
   Management 9. Does the SPHL have a Laborat ory Information Management
   System (LIMS) that: Functions in the majority of laboratory testing
   areas within the SPHL? Enables public health programs to access and the
   LIMS data and perform ad hoc queries? Enables electronic reporting to
   public health progr ams and other Clients? Have operating
   characteristics of manual and online instrument data entry, searchable
   databases, and monitoring results for quality standards? Adheres to
   NEDDS standards? Disease Prevention, Control, and Surveillance 10. Does
   the SPHL collaborate with private and public laboratories to: Audit
   compliance with disease reporting requirements? Assess capabilities for
   implementation of electronic disease reporting? 11. Does the SPHL
   maintain CLIA multi -site limited public health testing certifi cates
   for testing in local public health clinics or in other ways directly
   provide support and routine consultation for testing in counties and
   small municipalities? Y N Emergency Laboratory Contacts 12. Does the
   State Public Health Agency have a specif ied full -time
   liaison/coordinator for laboratory emergency response? Y N If yes, is
   the laboratory liaison in contact with: LPHA emergency response
   coordinator for BT, chemical, and radiological incidents? Federal
   Bureau of Investigation? Planning for la boratory testing, specimen
   transport and reporting 13. Does the SPHA have a protocol to specify
   laboratory testing capabilities in the event of public health
   emergencies, biological, chemical and radiological incidents? Y N If
   yes, does the plan identif y: Laboratory contacts, responsibilities,
   and lines of authority? Testing capabilities for suspected BT, chemical
   agents, radiological, or other analyses? Additional staff or alternate
   local laboratories for surge capacity for interrupted testing service?
   Clinical and public health laboratories, including Level "A"
   laboratories Clinical and public health laboratory testing capacities,
   including routine and surge test volumes and turnaround times, within
   each jurisdiction? Contingent methods of communicating laboratory
   results (e.g. electronic, phone, fax, courier)? Contingency plans to
   send public health and reference testing to other states? 14. Does the
   SPHA have guidelines or protocols in place to address the handling and
   transport of laboratory and environmental specimens in the event of a
   biological, chemical, radiological and other disaster incident? Y N 10
   If yes, do these include: Collection? Transportation/storage? Safe
   disposal of biological waste? Safe disposal of chemical waste? Safe
   disposal of ra diological waste? Labeling? Chain of custody? Referral
   to State Public Health Laboratory? 15. Does the SPHA have a security
   system ensuring that no unauthorized personnel have access to testing
   equipment, reagents or specimens? Y N Access to testing ser vices for
   biological, chemical, and radiological incidents 16. Under emergency
   circumstances, f or the potential agents of bioterrorism, including
   Bacillus anthracis , Brucella sp ., Francicella tularensi a, Yersinia
   pestis , Variola major (smallpox), d o you h ave access within 4 hours
   to laboratories that can fulfill the roles of Level A testing, which
   can rule OUT potential agents within 24 -48 hours of specimen
   collection Level B testing, which can rule IN potential agents within 4
   -24 hours for culture isolat es and 24 -72 hours for specimens Level C
   testing, which can rule IN and speciate potential agents 17. Under
   emergency circumstances, d o you have access within 4 hours to a
   laboratory that can test environmental samples for radiological
   elements? Y N 18. Do you have access within 4 hours to a laboratory
   that can test environmental samples and specimens for toxic chemicals
   that could be released accidentally or intentional chemical warfare
   agents (Sarin, Tabun, Soman, VX, sulfur mustard, nitrogen mustard,
   Lewisite 1, phosgene, chlorine, HCN, CK)? Y N Evaluation/functionality
   of laboratory preparedness 19. Do the laboratories that provide testing
   services for biological, chemical, and radiological incidents
   participate in programs that specifically measure their proficiency for
   detecting these analyses at least 3 times a year? Y N 11
   Epidemiology/Surveillance 12 Epidemiology and Surveillance Health
   Outcome Monitoring: 1. For which of the following does the public
   health agency maintain surveillance systems for health outcomes
   potentially related to public health emergencies, such as communicable
   diseases (C), environmental emergencies (E), radiological emergencies
   (R), injuries (I)? (check all that apply) System to monitor health
   events: C E R I System to Identify changes or patterns C E R I System
   to investigate underlying causes or factors: C E R I 2. Does the public
   health agency organize collected health information into a local/state
   health profile? Y N Health Outcome Monitoring for Rapid Detection of
   Public Health Emergencies: 3. Does the public health agency have a
   validated and tested protocol for t he conduct of enhanced surveillance
   upon identification of unusual findings or during a suspected or
   confirmed public health emergency? Y N 4. Does the public health agency
   utilize early warning systems for detecting unusual occurrences of
   health outcomes; i.e., does the agency have access to and review at
   least once every 24 hours the following types of data: Emergency
   department utilization Hospital admissions Ambulance runs 911 call data
   Data on unexplained deaths Syndromic surveillance (from HMOs, e.g.)
   Poison control centers Pharmaceutical inventories (e.g., antimicrobial
   agent usage) Hazard Assessment: 5. Does the public health agency
   operate or communicate directly with an agency that operates an
   environmental hazard surveillance program (e.g., HSEES) t hat includes:
   The maintenance of a list of facilities and sites (updated at least
   annually) that contain natural or synthetic hazards (e.g., chemical
   manufacturing/storage, storage of infectious waste, radiologic power
   plants/nuclear facilities) and/or po ssible targets of a terrorist
   incident (e.g., food production/storage, water treatment and
   distribution, high occupancy buildings) Performance or access by the
   public health agency of a hazard assessment (identification of types,
   quantities, possible expos ure routes of potentially hazardous
   substances) for each of the facilities or sites listed Conduct of
   population -based exposure surveillance Hazard Assessment for
   Emergencies: 6. Can the public health agency conduct or do they
   communicate directly with an a gency that conducts a risk assessment of
   environmental hazards associated with an actual emergency event
   including an assessment of occupational hazards to emergency response
   workers and care providers? Y N 13 If yes, does the public health
   agency develop o r do they communicate directly with an agency that
   develops mitigation plans? Y N Epidemiologic capacity to conduct
   surveillance activities for outcomes potentially related to public
   health emergencies: 7. Does the public health agency employ or have
   acces s to the following persons needed to conduct surveillance and
   epidemiologic activities for the jurisdiction: Epidemiologists
   Biostatisticians Data analysts Programmers Data entry personnel 8. Does
   the State public health agency mandate community health prov iders to
   report diseases and conditions of public health importance (e.g., list
   of national notifiable diseases or sentinal occupational diseases)? Y N
   If yes, d oes the state public health agency have a system in place to
   evaluate the level of reporting b y health care providers in the state
   and to enforce reporting in accordance with its mandate? Y N 9. Does
   the state public health agency provide summaries of notifiable diseases
   and injuries to the local public health agency on a regular basis? Y N
   10. Does the public health agency regularly provide to community health
   professionals (e.g., hospitals, HMOs, physicians) reportable disease
   and injury summary information? Y N Epidemiologic capacity to detect
   and investigate a public health emergency (including a su spected
   biological, chemical, or radiologic event): 11. Does the public health
   agency have access to adequately trained epidemiologists available
   within four hours for on - site consultation at the local jurisdiction?
   Y N If yes, is (are) the epidemiologist(s) : On staff or contract to
   local public health agency. On staff or contract to State public health
   agency. If yes, do the epidemiologists have access to appropriate
   communication/data analysis equipment, including portable computers
   with modem access and a ppropriate epidemiologic software (e.g., Epi
   -Info), for use during their fieldwork? Y N 12. Has the public health
   agency provided or arranged for training/education to health care
   providers in the community identifying types of infections or syndromes
   that ma y be sentinel events of public health emergencies, requiring
   immediate notification to the public health agency? Y N 14 13. Does the
   public health agency have a designated receipt point available 24 hours
   per day, 7 days per week, for reporting of unusual infec tions or
   syndromes by community health care providers? Y N If yes, does the
   agency communicate that information to the community? Y N 14. Do sample
   epidemiologic case investigation protocols maintained by the public
   health agency for the conduct of investigations of possible biological
   Incidents contain the following elements: The public health agency does
   not maintain sample investigation protocols for a biological incident.
   Algorithms to trigger investigation (based on results of outcome and/or
   hazard mo nitoring) Rapid assessment surveys and data entry methods and
   procedures Case definitions Contact tracing and case tracking
   procedures Epidemiologic clues that may signal a bioterrorist event
   (triggering appropriate response plan) Procedures for integratio n of
   human and veterinary epidemiologic investigations Roster and contact
   information of personnel with technical expertise to aid in
   investigation within one hour of onset of emergency (e.g., State
   epidemiologist, clinicians, toxicologists, veterinarians, medical
   examiners, health physicists, infectious disease specialists,
   environmental health scientists, industrial hygienists, occupational
   health specialists) Plans to define and integrate roles for additional
   personnel (e.g., infection control practition ers, public health
   nurses, epidemiologists, and data entry clerks from other institutions,
   jurisdictions and/or agencies) as required to appropriately staff
   enhanced surveillance efforts in a public health emergency Procedures
   for immediate and ongoing exp osure assessment 15. Do sample
   epidemiologic case investigation protocols maintained by the public
   health agency for the conduct of investigations of possible chemical
   incidents contain the following elements: The public health agency does
   not maintain sampl e investigation protocols for a chemical incident.
   The public health agency does not investigate chemical incidents, but
   coordinates with agency that does investigate such incidents.
   Algorithms to trigger investigation (based on results of outcome and/o
   r hazard monitoring) Rapid assessment surveys and data entry methods
   and procedures Case definitions Contact tracing and case tracking
   procedures Epidemiologic clues that may signal a terrorist event
   (triggering appropriate response plan) Procedures for in tegration of
   human and veterinary epidemiologic investigations Roster and contact
   information of personnel with technical expertise to aid in
   investigation within one hour of onset of emergency (e.g., State
   epidemiologist, clinicians, toxicologists, veteri narians, medical
   examiners, health physicists, Infectious disease specialists,
   environmental health scientists, industrial hygienists, occupational
   health specialists) Plans to define and integrate roles for additional
   personnel (e.g., infection control pr actitioners, public health
   nurses, epidemiologists, and data entry clerks from other institutions,
   jurisdictions and/or agencies) as required to appropriately staff
   enhanced surveillance efforts in a public health emergency Procedures
   for immediate and ong oing exposure assessment 16. Do sample
   epidemiologic case investigation protocols maintained by the public
   health agency for the conduct of investigations of possible
   radiological incidents contain the following elements: The public
   health agency does not m aintain sample investigation protocols for a
   radiological incident. The public health agency does not investigate
   radiological incidents, but coordinates with agency that does
   investigate such incidents . Algorithms to trigger investigation (based
   on resul ts of outcome and/or hazard monitoring) Rapid assessment
   surveys and data entry methods and procedures 15 Case definitions
   Contact tracing and case tracking procedures Epidemiologic clues that
   may signal a terrorist event (triggering appropriate response plan )
   Procedures for integration of human and veterinary epidemiologic
   investigations Roster and contact information of personnel with
   technical expertise to aid in investigation within one hour of onset of
   emergency (e.g., State epidemiologist, clinicians, to xicologists,
   veterinarians, medical examiners, health physicists, infectious disease
   specialists, environmental health scientists, industrial hygienists,
   occupational health specialists) Plans to define and integrate roles
   for additional personnel (e.g., i nfection control practitioners,
   public health nurses, epidemiologists, and data entry clerks from other
   institutions, jurisdictions and/or agencies) as required to
   appropriately staff enhanced surveillance efforts in a public health
   emergency Procedures fo r immediate and ongoing exposure assessment 17.
   Do sample surveillance/epidemiology protocols maintained by the public
   health agency for the conduct of investigations of natural disasters
   (e.g., earthquakes, hurricanes) and other (non -biological, chemical,
   or radiological) public health emergencies ? The public health agency
   does not maintain sample investigation protocols for natural disasters
   or other types of public health emergencies. Algorithms to trigger
   investigation Rapid assessment surveys and data entry methods and
   procedures Case definitions Contact tracing and case tracking
   procedures Procedures for integration of human and veterinary
   epidemiologic investigations Roster and contact information of
   personnel with technical expertise to aid in invest igation within one
   hour of onset of emergency (e.g., State epidemiologist, clinicians,
   toxicologists, veterinarians, medical examiners, health physicists,
   infectious disease specialists, environmental health scientists,
   industrial hygienists, occupational health specialists) Plans to define
   and integrate roles for additional personnel (e.g., infection control
   practitioners, public health nurses, epidemiologists, and data entry
   clerks from other institutions, jurisdictions and/or agencies) as
   required to app ropriately staff enhanced surveillance efforts in a
   public health emergency Procedures for immediate and ongoing exposure
   assessment 18. Has the public health agency designated an epidemiology
   response coordinator to manage surveillance and epidemiologic inve
   stigations during a public health emergency? Y N Evaluation of
   Epidemiologic Systems and Protocols: 19. In the past 12 months, has the
   public health agency: Conducted a review of epidemiologic systems and
   protocols related to disease surveillance and investi gation Conducted
   a review of the epidemiologic systems and protocols related to public
   health emergencies Conducted a table -top or functional exercise
   utilizing the epidemiologic systems and protocols Responded to a real
   or hoax event utilizing the epidemi ologic systems and protocols If
   yes, Has the public health agency reviewed the experiences and
   knowledge gained? Y N Has the public health agency updated or corrected
   any identified deficiencies in the disease surveillance and
   investigation protocols? Y N Has the public health agency corrected any
   identified deficiencies in the emergency response systems and
   protocols? Y N 16 Information Systems 17 Information Systems Public
   Health Messages 1. Does your agency have a mechanism for broadcasting
   routine public health messages and advisories (other than health
   alerts) intended for the general public or other targeted general
   audiences ? Y N Data/Information security and loss protection policies
   2. Does your public health agency demonstrate compliance wit h written
   data/information security and loss protection policies? Y N If yes, for
   which of the following has the agency demonstrated compliance?
   Data/Information security Internet firewalls Intruder detection,
   including port scan protection Virus scanning Public Key Infrastructure
   (PKI) authentication and encryption technologies: Passwords Digital
   certificates Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) E-mail systems: S/MIME Other
   emerging technologies for authentication (key fobs, smart cards,
   magnetic cards, retina sca n, fingerprint scan) Data/Information loss
   Uninterruptible power supply (UPS) Data backup arrangements On-site
   (Zip disk , CD, other) Remote-site Database user audit trail Redundant
   systems where appropriate (a minimum of one desktop workstation with 5
   6kbps dial -up Internet connectivity to an alternate Internet Service
   Provider (ISP)) Alarms against environmental hazards Information
   Technology Competency 3. Does your public health agency employ,
   contract with, or otherwise have access to personnel w ith the
   following competencies to perform information technology (IT)
   functions?: Project management Programming including database
   specialists Network specialist Web development IT security IT customer
   support Standard Information Technologies 4. Do all the internal
   networks, Internet connections, and broadcast fax capabilities of your
   public health agency comply with Health Alert Network architectural
   standards and performance characteristics? All internal networks Y N Do
   not have internal networ ks 18 All internet connections Y N Do not have
   Internet connections All broadcast fax capabilities Y N Do not have
   broadcast fax capabilities 5. Do the distance learning capabilities of
   your public health agency comply with Health Alert Network Distance
   Learning System Infrastructure Standards and Human Resource
   Requirements? Y N Do not have distance learning capabilities 6. Has
   your public health agency adopted an electronic disease surveillance
   system consistent with standards used for the National El ectronic
   Disease Surveillance System (NEDSS) Y N 7. Does your public health
   agency use Geographic Information Systems (GIS)? Definition: Geographic
   Information Systems (GIS) are computer systems capable of assembling,
   storing, manipulating, and displayin g geographically referenced
   information, i.e. data identified according to their locations.
   Practitioners also regard the total GIS as including operating
   personnel and the data that go into the system. Y N Electronic
   connectivity for secure data/informa tion exchange 8. Does your agency
   exchange data/information electronically for the following routine
   public health functions? Surveillance activities Registries Clinical
   patient databases Vital statistics Laboratory reports Health Alerts 9.
   Has your p ublic health agency determined who is authorized within your
   agency to: compose, send, receive, and take action on health alerts? Y
   N 10.Does your public health agency assign responsibility to at least 1
   person to: Maintain a distribution list for the He alth Alert Network?
   Update the distribution list at least quarterly to ensure complete and
   accurate contact information? 11. Does your public health agency have a
   system for sending health alerts within 1 hour of their final approval
   to all local health d epartments and to all designated state public
   health system partners in your jurisdiction: During the day (Monday
   Friday, 8 AM to 5 PM)? During the night (Monday  Friday, 5 PM to 8 AM)?
   During the weekend (Saturday and Sunday, 24 hours per day)? 12. Doe s
   your public health agency's system for sending health alerts include: A
   mechanism to confirm receipt of health alerts? A mechanism to confirm
   health alerts have been read by the recipient? 19 13. Has your public
   health agency tested its system for sending hea lth alerts at least
   every 3 months? Y N 14. Can your state public health agency receive
   Health Alerts from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)
   within 1 hour from the time they are sent? Y N Emergency Information
   Management 15. To facilitat e decision/policy -making and improve
   emergency response through "lessons learned" does your agency have
   procedures and standardized formats to log, track and report
   information during an emergency? Y N If yes, for which of the following
   does your agency h ave procedures and formats to log, track, and report
   information during an emergency? Death and injury tolls Infection rates
   Individuals exposed needing follow up care Travel restrictions
   Quarantines Property seizures Product impounds Health alerts receiv ed
   and sent Faxes received and issued E-mail received and sent Telephone
   calls received and placed Conference calls conducted Human resource
   use: staff time and attendance Fiscal resource use: emergency supplies,
   equipment, and services purchased Staffed hospital bed availability
   Antimicrobial and vaccine availability Emergency situation status
   reports Other __________________________________________________
   Electronic resources for key response personnel 16. Has your public
   health agency equipped its k ey response personnel, including the
   Emergency Response Coordinator, with a computer and collateral hardware
   configured to Health Alert Network standards? [An Emergency Response
   Coordinator is the person who would lead the local health department's
   effor t in the event of a natural or man -made disaster  e.g. LHD
   Director, Health Officer, etc. The actual title of this person will
   vary from locality to locality.] Y N Public access website 17. Does
   your agency have a website for public health information that is
   accessible by the public 24 hours per day, 7 days per week? Y N 20
   Communication 21 Communication Collaborative Relationships 1. Does the
   public health agency have written agreements with health -related
   organizations and the media to establish communication networks for
   public health problems (e.g., information sharing, joint release of
   public information)? Y N Media Relations and Media Advocacy 2. Does the
   public health agency have a designated public information officer with
   competencies in: Risk communication Media advocacy Oral and written
   communication with the media Publicity (providing information about
   public health events as they occur) Promotion (promoting activities,
   ideas, or products) If yes, Has the public health agency designated a
   backup public information officer? Y N Is the public information
   officer or the designated backup official available 24 hours per day, 7
   days per work? Y N Does the public information officer know the local
   health reporters (radio, television, and pri nt)? Y N Does the public
   information officer generate a monthly report of media contacts? Y N
   Does the public health agency route all media calls through the public
   information officer? Y N 3. Does the public health agency provide
   reports to the media on community health issues on a weekly basis? Y N
   Public Information Information for Policy Makers 4. How often does the
   public health agency meet with policy makers to provide public health
   information for decision support on a regular basis? Annually Monthly
   Weekly Daily Other _____________________________________________ 5.
   Which of the following does the public health agency educate policy
   makers about: Emergency operations plans Security issues Protocols for
   releasing public information Patient confidentiality issues
   Communication Strategies 6. Has the public health agency established
   communications strategies to: 22 Deliver and receive broadcast
   communications Provide access to the Internet Deliver training via
   distance learning technology Communication Protocols 7. Which of the
   following emergency communication protocols have been established by
   the agency? Communicating with the Emergency Operations Center
   Communicating with first responders, hospitals, and the medical
   community Public health agency participation in the Joint Information
   Center (JIC) Establishing two -way communication between the agency and
   the JIC Releasing public information on potential hazards Communicating
   with the Press/Media Linking with the Emergency Broadcast Alert System
   Agency notification by 911 activation system Evaluation of
   communication systems surge capacity during emergencies 8. Indicate
   which elements are included in agency protocols for releasing public
   information regarding potential biological, chemical or radiological
   hazards. Designated public information officer with competency in risk
   communication Description of the hazard Prevention measures specific to
   the hazard Identification of shelters Evacuation plans Coordinated
   press/media release of simil ar information 9. Does the public health
   agency contact the media daily during an emergency? Y N 10. Does the
   media contact the public health agency daily during public health
   emergencies? Y N 11. Can the public health agency disseminate medical
   management informa tion to the clinical community within one hour? Y N
   If yes, which of the following can information be disseminated to:
   Ambulatory care facilities First responders Health care providers
   Hospitals Laboratories Pharmacies 12. Which communications mechanisms
   ha s the public health agency established to ensure communication
   during emergency events? Dedicated radio frequencies (e.g., two -way
   radios) Satellite or cell phones Back-up power sources Periodic
   training for equipment orientation and updates Redundant vo ice
   communication mechanisms and secure data communication 13. Does the
   public information officer contact policymakers during an emergency to:
   Provide information on current status of the emergency and operations
   Provide guidance on information appropriate f or public release 23
   Designated Personnel with Defined Roles and Responsibilities 14. Has
   the public health agency designated essential personnel for a 24 -hour
   call down roster? Y N If yes, How often is the contact information for
   essential personnel update d? Does the call -down roster include 24
   -hour contact information for organizations within the public health
   system? If yes, how often is the information
   updated?______________________ Evaluation 15. How often are
   communications equipment and systems tested ? Monthly Quarterly
   Annually 16. How often are personnel availability drills
   conducted?_________________________________________ 24 Workforce 25
   Workforce Staffing Requirements/Workforce Competency 1. Does the public
   health agency have a staffing plan which identifies the number,
   qualifications and geographic distribution of personnel required to
   meet statewide/local health services needs? Y N If yes: Is the staffing
   plan reviewed annually? Y N Is turnover and vacancy information
   collected and analyzed annu ally? Y N Is this information used in
   planning/implementing recruiting and retention efforts? Y N Is the
   staffing plan based on projections from public health workforce
   assessments conducted at least every 3 years? Y N 2. Has the public
   health agency co nducted a training needs assessment in the past 3
   years? Y N If yes, is progress in addressing needs identified in the
   assessment reviewed annually? Y N 3. Does the public health agency have
   policies and procedures to assure that personnel in regulated p
   rofessions meet prescribed competencies including certifications,
   licenses, and education required by law or recommended by local, State
   or federal policy guidelines? Y N 4. Does the public health agency
   specify formal public health education and training requirements for
   individuals who serve as senior public health officials? Y N 5. For
   which of the following occupational categories does the public health
   agency have a written workforce development plan that identifies the
   competency needs of the workfo rce? Administrative/leadership Public
   Health Professionals (discipline specific) Public Health Technical
   (function specific  information technology, environmental health)
   Support staff (clerical, maintenance) 6. For which of the following has
   the publi c health agency developed written policies related to
   training and /or continuing education requirements for staff? New
   employee orientation Department/unit/job specific orientation Core
   Public Health Skills Discipline specific continuing education Annual
   certifications/required updates  e.g. emergency preparedness Competence
   in culture and language of populations served 26 Workforce Development
   Implementation 7. Has the public health agency identified specific
   personnel and organizational resources to assur e a systematic approach
   to workforce development? Y N If yes, has the public health agency:
   Designated person(s) as workforce development coordinator? Y N
   Designated person(s) as coordinators for distance learning
   activities/resources? Y N Provided acce ss to distance learning
   locations no more than 30 minutes drive of each agency
   facilities/employee location? Y N Provided access to online learning
   resources? Y N Provided facilities, certified staff and equipment to
   conduct and evaluate annual training classes, exercises and drills? Y N
   Established a mechanism to incorporate feedback from employees,
   leadership, community partners, and other external experts into
   workforce development and training plans? Y N 8. Does the public health
   agency have human r esources policies/programs, which facilitate
   employee participation in learning opportunities that enhance basic and
   technical skills? Y N If yes, which of the following does the public
   health agency have? Career ladder programs? Tuition reimbursement/Sch
   olarship programs? Continuing education? Professional meetings?
   Seminars and workshops? Orientation/Training System 9. Has the public
   health agency defined individual roles and responsibilities for public
   health staff in the agency's emergency response plan ? Y N Staffing
   Requirements 10. Have the public health agency's emergency response
   staffing requirements been defined in the agency's emergency response
   plan? Y N 27 If yes, Is there a staffing plan based on these defined
   requirements? Y N Is there a depart ment- or function -specific
   staffing plan? Y N Is there a contact list to support the staffing
   plan? Y N Is there a mechanism for maintaining the staffing
   requirements 24/7 during an emergency response? Y N 11. Does the public
   health agency assess the traini ng and continuing education needs of
   their staff based on their roles and responsibilities during a public
   health emergency response? Y N If yes, Is there a written training plan
   based on this assessment? Y N Does the training plan include learning
   objec tives, training strategies, content outlines, resources and a
   method for evaluation? Y N Does the agency assure access to training to
   meet needs identified in the assessment? Y N Which of the following
   topic(s) addressed as part of the training plan: Role of the agency in
   emergencies Types of public health emergencies Federal emergency
   response plans, and relevant State and local plans Chain of
   command/inter -and intra -agency communications Incident command
   system/Unified command structure Radiological, ch emical and biological
   hazards Natural disasters Public information/Media Relations/Risk
   Communications Worker health and safety issues Selection and use of
   personal protective equipment Legal authorities Psychological issues
   Use of communications and infor mation technology Managing personal
   responsibilities during emergency response Mortuary-related issues
   (e.g., safe handling of bodies, temporary morgues) Coalition building
   and communications with response partners Procedures to acquire needed
   pharmaceutic als, medical equipment and supplies Vaccine administration
   and other medical interventions Enforcement of public health emergency
   restrictions (e.g. quarantine, property seizure, travel restrictions)
   12. Does the public health agency have a written policy reg arding
   emergency response training requirements? Y N 28 If yes, Is compliance
   with the training policy audited annually? Y N Is orientation to the
   emergency preparedness and response plan included as part of new
   employee orientation? Y N Are job -specific emergency preparedness and
   response roles and responsibilities included in departmental or job
   orientation? Y N Is individual performance on emergency preparedness
   and response protocols evaluated agency -wide at least annually through
   exercises, drills or continuing education? Y N Is corrective action to
   improve compliance documented at department or function -specific
   level? Y N 13. Does the public health agency's staff train for
   emergency preparedness and response with staff from other organizations
   in the emergency response system? Y N If yes, is individual performance
   evaluated in annual exercises or drills in collaboration with community
   response partners? Y N 29 Policy and Evaluation 30 Policy and
   Evaluation Establishment and Review of Policies, Laws, R ules, and
   Regulations 1. Has the public health agency identified legal counsel
   that will be available during a public health emergency? Y N 2. Do
   public health agency leaders have core public health law competencies?
   Y N 3. Does the public health agency review public health laws and
   regulations with relevant stakeholders at least annually? Y N If yes,
   do the reviews: Determine whether laws and regulations provide the
   authority to carry out the Essential Public Health Services? Y N
   Determine the impact of existing laws and regulations on the health of
   the community? Y N Assess the opinions of constituents of the public
   health agency? Y N Determine whether public health laws and regulations
   require updating? Y N Assess compliance with laws and regulati ons that
   assign specific activities to the public health agency? Y N 4. Does the
   public health agency identify public health issues that are not
   adequately addressed through existing laws, regulations, or ordinances,
   and take action to address inadequacie s (e.g., educating lawmakers on
   law as a tool to improve public health, drafting legislation to address
   inadequacies)? Y N 5. Does the public health agency propose legislation
   and draft rules and regulations that strengthen the agency's authority
   to prote ct the public? Y N 6. Does the public health agency have
   documented authority to enforce public health laws, regulations, or
   ordinances? Y N If yes, Does the enforcement staff have copies of
   statutes or can they cite references granting them authority t o
   enforce public health laws, rules, and regulations? Y N Do public
   health enforcement staff distribute copies of relevant public health
   laws, rules, and regulations to the regulated community? Y 31 N
   Community Assessment and Health Improvement Plans 7. Does the public
   health agency use state/community assessment findings to develop a
   health improvement plan? Y N If yes, Does the state/local health
   improvement plan include objectives for emergency preparedness and
   response? Y N Does the state/local agenc y review progress towards
   emergency preparedness and response objectives? Y N Designating Roles
   and Responsibilities 8.Does the public health agency participate in a
   task force with relevant stakeholders to address emergency preparedness
   and response? Y N 9. Has an organization(s) within the public health
   agency's jurisdiction been given the command and control
   responsibility? Y N Has an organization(s) within the public health
   agency's jurisdiction been given the legal authority for emergency
   preparedness, response, and recovery efforts? Y N 10. Have the
   emergency management responsibilities for individual organizations
   within the public health system been determined? Y N If yes, which of
   the following organization have defined emergency management
   responsibilities? City/county/state government Coroners and medical
   examiners Custodial care facilities Education system (public education)
   Emergency management agency Environmental agencies with
   responsibilities for fire, health, water, air quality, and consumer
   safety Funeral Directors Home health care provider agencies Hospitals
   Local emergency planning committee Mental health agencies National
   Guard Nursing homes Occupational health agencies Pharmacies Poison
   control centers Private physicians offices Private sector: trade and
   business organizations, industry and labor Public health agency Public
   information office for jurisdiction 32 Public safety (fire and police)
   Public works/sanitation Transportation systems Urgent care centers
   Veterinarians Volunteer organizations (e.g., Red Cross) Surge Capacity
   11. Does the public health agency have mutual aid agreements with other
   localities (in or outside your state/jursidiction) to share resources
   during a public health emergency? Y N 12. Has the public health agency
   developed plans to provide provisional credentials and professional
   liability coverage for out-of-state clinicians to support surge
   capacity policies during an emergency? Y N Evaluation 13. Does the
   public health agency have a policy to review an d revise the public
   health emergency response plan at least once every 12 months? Y N 14.
   In the last 12 months, has the public health agency participated in
   tabletop exercises with multiple organizations and individuals to
   assess response readiness, resp onder continuity, and overall
   integration of services? Y N 15. n the last 12 months, has the public
   health agency participated in functional exercises with multiple
   organizations and individuals to assess response readiness, responder
   coordination and ov erall integration of services and responsibilities?
   Y N 33
