http://info.texas.gov/category.jsp?language=eng&categoryId=10.5

    Skip to content

   Texas Online
                En Español Accessibility Privacy Help


   About Texas
   Business and Consumer Services
   Education and Training
   Employment and Labor
   Environment and Natural Resources
   Government
   Health and Family Services
   Laws and Criminal Justice
   Licenses, Permits, Registration, and Public Records
   Online Services
   Regional and Community Resources
   Travel and Recreation

   Search


   ________       GO
   Advanced Search


   Statewide Search TRAIL

   Quicklinks > I want to... FAQs
   Home : Online Services : Occupational and Professional Licenses
   Occupational and Professional Licenses
   Available from this page are links to applications enabling online
   renewal of various professional and occupational licenses.
   Resources
   A/C Refrigeration Contractor Renewal
   The Texas Department of Licensing and Regulation has launched an
   initiative to bring all aspects of their regulatory responsibilities to
   the Internet. The first application to be available will allow Air
   Conditioning and Refrigeration Contractors to renew their licenses
   online, at their convenience. Fees can be paid using a credit card. A
   printable receipt will be available for record keeping purposes.
   Insurance Agent Search & Renewal
   Insurance license renewals now can be submitted to the Texas Department
   of Insurance online, and fees can be paid by credit card. Renewal
   invoices are mailed about 30 days prior to the due date. License
   renewals may be submitted during those 30 days, and for 30 days after
   the due date with a late penalty. All qualifications on the license
   must be renewed. This service also provides a great deal of information
   about active insurance agents, agencies, and adjusters, including all
   active company appointments, name and address, license number, type,
   and expiration date.
   Mortgage Broker and Loan Officer Online License Renewal
   Through the Texas Savings and Loan Department, licensed mortgage
   brokers and loan officers will have access to an online license renewal
   system that allows you to make payment by credit card, document
   continuing education hours, review and correct your information in our
   files, and print a receipt for your records.
   Real Estate Agents and Brokers
   The Licensing Section processes applications and renewals, information
   changes, and education credits, as well as maintains records on current
   and former licensees.
   Real Estate License Renewal
   Through the Texas Real Estate Commission, licensed Real Estate
   Salespersons and Agents have the ability to file their renewals and
   renewal fees online. Fees can be paid using a credit card, and a
   printable receipt is made available for records.
   Real Estate Salesperson Application
   Individuals wishing to apply for a Texas real estate salesperson
   license now have the convenience of making application online and
   paying with a credit card. To be eligible to apply for a real estate
   salesperson license an individual must first furnish the Texas Real
   Estate Commission evidence of successfully completing the required 120
   hours of core real estate classes and an additional 60 hours of related
   courses. Further information on educational requirements for licensure
   can be found at the TREC web site.
   State Board of Veterinary Medical Examiners License Renewal
   The Texas State Board of Veterinary Medical Examiners has launched an
   initiative to facilitate on-line license renewal for eligible
   veterinarians holding a Texas license. To determine eligibility to
   utilize this function, please visit the web site's eligibility page.
   Fees may be paid using most major credit cards. A printable receipt
   will be available for record keeping purposes, followed by an official,
   displayable annual renewal certificate.

   Contact Us About Us

   Public Information Act Link Policy Legal
