http://info.texas.gov/page.jsp?language=eng&pageId=about-us

    Skip to content

   Texas Online
                En Español Accessibility Privacy Help


   About Texas
   Business and Consumer Services
   Education and Training
   Employment and Labor
   Environment and Natural Resources
   Government
   Health and Family Services
   Laws and Criminal Justice
   Licenses, Permits, Registration, and Public Records
   Online Services
   Regional and Community Resources
   Travel and Recreation

   Search


   ________       GO
   Advanced Search


   Statewide Search TRAIL

   Quicklinks > I want to... FAQs
   Home : About Us


   About Us
   Mission and Purpose
   Contact Us
   Press Kit
   Frequently Asked Questions
   Awards
   Other Helpful Numbers
   Speakers Bureau

Mission and Purpose

   The State of Texas web site, www.TexasOnline.com is intended to serve
   as the official compilation of Texas government electronic resources,
   both at the state and local levels, and as an index of Texas
   governmental or taxing authority web sites and services. The site is
   organized by subject to provide a collection of links and portals
   designed to allow citizens, visitors, businesses, state government, and
   others to quickly and efficiently locate appropriate resources. The
   layout and design of www.TexasOnline.com is the result of a
   collaborative effort between the Texas Department of Information
   Resources, KPMG Consulting and many agencies and organizations across
   all branches of government and industry providing input in the form of
   comments and suggestions.

   Providing the www.TexasOnline.com web site is a public service, meeting
   the mission of the TexasOnline Division of the Texas Department of
   Information Resources (DIR) which is to:
     * To improve public access to government information, programs and
       services.
     * To provide a mechanism for state government to become more
       efficient, effective, and responsive to the public through the use
       of online web portals.
     * To provide a tool to improve cross-agency or cross-boundary
       organizational collaboration activity on significant policy and/or
       administrative issues among Texas State government employees.
     * To support state agencies' uses of the web to achieve their
       missions.
     * To expedite state government's internal functions.

   We sincerely hope you find this site useful, informative, and
   enjoyable.

Contact Us

   For news media questions, please contact Phil Barrett, TexasOnline
   Director, at 512.475.4754 or by email at Phil.Barrett@dir.state.tx.us,
   or Katy Fendrich, KPMG Consulting, by telephone at 512.542.5310 or by
   email at cfendrich@kpmg.com.

Press Kit

   Our press kit includes news releases, background information, an
   overview of TexasOnline, and press contacts. To receive a press kit,
   please contact Katy Fendrich, KPMG Consulting, by telephone at
   512.542.5310 or by email at cfendrich@kpmg.com.

Frequently Asked Questions

What is the TexasOnline Authority?

   The TexasOnline Authority is responsible for developing the
   self-supporting model and for taking a statewide approach to electronic
   government in Texas, enabling all levels of government to participate
   in a common electronic framework for online government. They are
   responsible for overseeing the general operations of TexasOnline,
   developing policies relating to TexasOnline operations, evaluating
   services to be provided on TexasOnline, and overseeing money generated
   for the operation and expansion of TexasOnline.

What services does TexasOnline provide?

   The TexasOnline portal is a convenient way for governmental entities to
   provide online services and transactions to their customers. The portal
   is designed with the following attributes in mind:
     * Strong Web site security, including authentication services ranging
       from passwords to PKI solutions
     * Scalable architecture that allows for rapid expansion and changes
       to applications
     * 24x7 availability
     * Ability to trace transactions throughout the system
     * Acceptance of both credit cards and electronic funds transfer
       payment mechanisms
     * Bilingual Web site
     * Web application development services
     * Call center services
     * Assistance with marketing to constituents.

How is TexasOnline funded?

   The contract with KPMG Consulting allows for multiple options for
   funding. Options include convenience fees, subscription fees, fees for
   premium services, or cost-sharing with the agency. The contract
   recognizes that not all agencies are able to charge fees for
   applications. Furthermore, there is also flexibility to determine that
   applications which serve the public good or which are traditionally
   offered at no cost may be offered for free on the portal. Agencies
   should be aware that one of the largest expenses for TexasOnline is the
   payment of credit card fees, and these costs must be taken into
   consideration. KPMG Consulting will work with agencies to assess the
   business case for each individual application, and help to determine
   the appropriate funding mechanism. After KPMG Consulting recoups the
   initial setup costs, the state will share in the revenue generated by
   the applications on the portal.

   SB187 requires the Authority to charge a subscription fee to licensing
   agencies that participate in TexasOnline. The subscription fee is
   intended to cover the cost of implementation of online licensing
   services. Each participating licensing agency is required to increase
   their occupational license renewal fees for their entire licensee
   population in order to cover the cost of the subscription fee. The fee
   cannot exceed $5 for an annually renewed occupational license and $10
   for a biennial renewed license.

   KPMG Consulting will develop and maintain the interface and front-end
   application at no charge to the agency. However, TexasOnline is
   self-supporting not free.

How does TexasOnline enhance state operations?

   One of the goals is to provide seamless "one-stop shopping" for doing
   business with Texas government. Citizens should find it easy to
   interact with government online. We also anticipate that agencies will
   gain efficiencies from offering online transactions as an alternative
   to walk-in or mail-in transactions. In the long run, we hope
   TexasOnline will provide added benefits in terms of enabling citizens
   who interact with multiple agencies to have information entered once,
   and reused appropriately.

What is TexasOnlines approach to concerns about privacy?

   The state and its agencies own the information collected by
   applications on the portal. The owner of each application will direct
   how that data is used and released to the public according to
   applicable laws. Vendors cannot use it for any purpose without the
   owner?s approval. TexasOnline has a separate privacy policy which
   details how information is collected and
   handled:http://www.texasonline.com/page.jsp?language=eng&pageId=privacy
   .

How secure is TexasOnline?

   The portal uses the same secure, reliable technologies that were
   developed by KPMG Consulting for NetAid, one of the largest, most
   secure web sites ever developed. Authentication services are offered by
   the portal, with solutions designed to meet the business need.
   Passwords, PIN numbers and PKI solutions are all offered as options
   through TexasOnline.

How interactive are the services on TexasOnline?

   TexasOnline is very interactive. People doing business with state
   agencies and local governments are able to pay for services online
   using credit cards or electronic checking. This enables citizens to
   collect or report information and pay any fees due in one step.
   TexasOnline also offers a staffed 800-number call center that will
   assist citizens with technical questions.

If an agency or local government already has a web development
vendor/initiative, can I use them on TexasOnline?

   Yes, governmental entities can work with other vendors. KPMG Consulting
   is also available to work with all Texas state and local governments.
   KPMG Consulting has the responsibility for the management, operations
   and integrity of the system and as such maintains guidelines and
   specifications for portal operations. For example, relative to security
   issues, all applications and systems must conform to TexasOnline
   security standards.

Where is TexasOnline housed?

   TexasOnline is hosted at the West Texas Disaster Recovery and
   Operations Center (WTDROC) in San Angelo, Texas.

How can state agencies, local governments and the educational community
participate?

   Participation is voluntary. However, SB187 requires that state agencies
   consider the use of TexasOnline for services provided via the Internet,
   including:
     * Financial transactions,
     * Applications for licenses, permits, registrations, and other
       related documents,
     * Electronic signatures,
     * Any other applications that require security.

   TexasOnline can host an application, so state agencies and local
   governments can take advantage of the portal infrastructure and
   security without giving up control over the information or the
   application itself. TexasOnline also has the flexibility of allowing
   agencies to host their own applications, although certain standards
   must be met. The standards are necessary to protect the integrity and
   security of the portal and the applications involved.

How did TexasOnline originate?

   KPMG Consulting responded to an RFO issued by the Electronic Government
   Task Force, the predecessor to the TexasOnline Authority, and was
   awarded the contract to develop and operate the portal for the State of
   Texas. KPMG Consulting is responsible for the equipment setup and
   ongoing operation of the portal, including the Web site, hardware,
   software, and staffing. KPMG Consulting provides the interfaces for
   online payments and for the front-end applications on the Web. They
   also provide marketing/awareness assistance, both for the portal and
   for the individual applications.

   KPMG Consulting teams with dozens of businesses, across the State of
   Texas, to complete and support TexasOnline. The businesses with whom
   KPMG Consulting teams are both those recognized as industry leaders and
   historically underutilized businesses.

   KPMG Consulting can be reached by contacting William Rogers via
   telephone at 512.542.5336 or via email at werogers@kpmg.com.

Where can I get more information about the TexasOnline Authority?

   The TexasOnline Authority has a Web site at www.dir.state.tx.us/egov/
   that contains additional information. The Authority also holds monthly
   meetings that are open to the public. Meeting times and locations are
   available at the Authority Web site.

Where can I get more information about participating in TexasOnline?

   Contact Phil Barrett, Texas Department of Information Resources (DIR),
   by telephone at 512.475.4754 or by email at
   phil.barrett@dir.state.tx.us. You may also contact Bill Rogers, KPMG
   Consulting, by telephone at 512.542.5336 or by email at
   werogers@kpmg.com.

Awards

   In its inaugural year, www.TexasOnline.com has won several prestigious
   awards which are:
                     Government Executive magazine
   2001 "Government Technology Leadership" Award
   Winner
   Center for Digital Government, Government Technology magazine and
   the Progress & Freedom Foundation
   The Nations Digital State Survey 2001
   State of Texas-#11-Electronic Commerce Category

   www.CityofHouston.gov has also won the following:
      Center for Digital Government and Government Technology magazine
   2001 Digital Cities Survey Award
   Finalist in the "Best of the Web" Category for Cities with a Population
   of
   More than 250,000

Other Helpful Numbers

   If you would like to contact us, here are several phone numbers:
     * · For technical assistance, call toll-free 1.877.452.9060 or email
       webhelp@texasonlinehelp.com.
     * · For eligibility or fee-related questions, please call the agency.
       Frequently called numbers are: Department of Public Safety at
       512.424.2600
       Texas Department of Transportation at 512.465.7611
       Texas Tomorrow Fund at 800.445.GRAD.
     * For assistance with offering a new government service on
       www.TexasOnline.com, please contact Bill Rogers, KPMG Consulting,
       by telephone at 512-542-5336 or werogers@kpmg.com

Speakers Bureau

   If you would like a representative from TexasOnline to speak at a
   professional association meeting on issues such as portal security or
   marketing, please contact Phil Barrett, Texas Department of Information
   Resources, by telephone at 512.475.4754 or by email at
   phil.barrett@dir.state.tx.us. You may also contact Katy Fendrich, KPMG
   Consulting, by telephone at 512.542.5310 or by email at
   cfendrich@kpmg.com.

   Contact Us About Us

   Public Information Act Link Policy Legal
