http://www.volpe.dot.gov/safety/index.html

         Skip Navigation Links Safety and Security Volpe Center Home

              Home | Advanced Search | Directory | Site Map | Contact Us |
   Privacy/Disclaimer | Accessibility
   About   Our Work   Career Opportunities   Working With Us   Information
   Resources   Outreach


   RESEARCH AREAS

   CAPABILITIES

   CONNECTIONS

   CURRENT CLIENTS

   CONTACT

    __________
   submit search


   Safety and Security collage

Safety and Security

   Our work is focused on assuring the safety and security of all modes of
   transportation working with both Federal and other organizations. We
   have a broad knowledge of transportation safety issues. We have the
   analytical, scientific, and engineering expertise to solve problems and
   to guide safety initiatives, and we have a deep understanding of the
   influence of human behavior on safety. We bring all these skills
   together in a dynamic cross-cutting environment that enables us to
   offer creative solutions to today's transportation problems.

   Because of the reputation we've earned as part of one of the nation's
   leading transportation centers, we're regularly called in to provide
   solutions for a wide variety of critical transportation, logistic, and
   engineering problems. When commuter trains collide, when automobiles
   collide with trains, when there are major delays in the processing of
   international passengers, or when there's a need to enhance airport
   security during peak travel hours, our researchers are there to
   investigate.

   Our organizational structure is flexible and promotes creative teamwork
   across disciplines and collective problem solving. With a collaborative
   management style, we understand the ground rules for creating an
   environment of experts empowered to meet our customers' goals. To
   fulfill our clients' information and technical requirements, we draw on
   the capabilities of our talented staff as well as the collective
   expertise of contractors, academics, and staff contacts within the
   industry, foreign governments, and other agencies of the Federal
   government.

   Although our clients have traditionally been Federal organizations, our
   recent work at the state and local level demonstrates our ability to
   create new partnerships. We value our role as an emerging resource for
   these agencies, and together we can explore ways to use new
   technologies and systems to improve efficiency, mobility, and security.
   As the state and local agencies have increased their autonomy, allowing
   them to pursue innovative solutions to transportation problems, we have
   been ready to support this transition, providing a resource with
   experience and objectivity as well as a broad perspective.

                                Return to Top


     US DOT triscallion U.S. Department of Transportation

                              Research and Special Programs Administration
