http://www.nih.gov/icd/

   Skip Over Navigation Links

   NIH National Institutes of Health, DHHS
   Health Information Grants & Funding Opportunities News Scientific
   Resources Institutes, Centers & Offices About NIH Building 1
     Back to NIH Home Page

   Institutes, Centers & Offices Give use your feedback on this redesigned
   page

   Quick Links
    OD    NIDA
    NCI   NIEHS
    NEI   NIGMS
    NHLBI NIMH
    NHGRI NINDS
    NIA   NINR
    NIAAA NLM
    NIAID CIT
    NIAMS CSR
    NIBIB FIC
    NICHD NCCAM
    NIDCD NCMHD
    NIDCR NCRR
    NIDDK CC

   N I H Directors

   N I H Offices

 NIH Logo Office of the Director (OD)
          The Office of the Director is the central office at NIH for its 27
          Institutes and Centers. The OD is responsible for setting policy for
          NIH and for planning, managing, and coordinating the programs and
          activities of all the NIH components. OD's program offices include the
          Office of AIDS Research and the Office of Research on Women's Health.
          more >

   N I H Institutes

   NCI logo National Cancer Institute (NCI) - Established in 1937
   NCI leads a national effort to reduce the burden of cancer morbidity
   and mortality. Its goal is to stimulate and support scientific
   discovery and its application to achieve a future when all cancers are
   uncommon and easily treated. Through basic and clinical biomedical
   research and training, NCI conducts and supports programs to understand
   the causes of cancer; prevent, detect, diagnose, treat, and control
   cancer; and disseminate information to the practitioner, patient, and
   public. more >
   NEI logo National Eye Institute (NEI) - Est. 1968
   NEI conducts and supports research that helps prevent and treat eye
   diseases and other disorders of vision. This research leads to
   sight-saving treatments, reduces visual impairment and blindness, and
   improves the quality of life for people of all ages. NEI-supported
   research has advanced our knowledge of how the eye functions in health
   and disease. more >
   NHLBI logo National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI) - Est.
   1948
   NHLBI provides leadership for a national program in diseases of the
   heart, blood vessels, lung, and blood; blood resources; and sleep
   disorders. Since October 1997, the NHLBI has also had administrative
   responsibility for the NIH Woman's Health Initiative. The Institute
   plans, conducts, fosters, and supports an integrated and coordinated
   program of basic research, clinical investigations and trials,
   observational studies, and demonstration and education projects. more >
   NHGRI logo National Human Genome Research Institute (NHGRI) - Est. 1989
   NHGRI supports the NIH component of the Human Genome Project, a
   worldwide research effort designed to analyze the structure of human
   DNA and determine the location of the estimated 30,000 to 40,000 human
   genes. The NHGRI Intramural Research Program develops and implements
   technology for understanding, diagnosing, and treating genetic
   diseases. more >
   NIA logo National Institute on Aging (NIA) - Est. 1974
   NIA leads a national program of research on the biomedical, social, and
   behavioral aspects of the aging process; the prevention of age-related
   diseases and disabilities; and the promotion of a better quality of
   life for all older Americans. more >
   NIAAA logo National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA) -
   Est. 1970
   NIAAA conducts research focused on improving the treatment and
   prevention of alcoholism and alcohol-related problems to reduce the
   enormous health, social, and economic consequences of this disease.
   more >
   NIAID logo National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases
   (NIAID) - Est. 1948
   NIAID research strives to understand, treat, and ultimately prevent the
   myriad infectious, immunologic, and allergic diseases that threaten
   millions of human lives. more >
   NIAMS logo National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin
   Diseases (NIAMS) - Est. 1986 Site Redesign and new URL
   NIAMS supports research into the causes, treatment, and prevention of
   arthritis and musculoskeletal and skin diseases, the training of basic
   and clinical scientists to carry out this research, and the
   dissemination of information on research progress in these diseases.
   more >
   NIBIB logo National Institute of Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering
   (NIBIB) - Est. 2000
   NIBIB improves health by promoting fundamental discoveries, design and
   development, and translation and assessment of technological
   capabilities in biomedical imaging and bioengineering, enabled by
   relevant areas of information science, physics, chemistry, mathematics,
   materials science, and computer sciences. more >
   NICHD logo National Institute of Child Health and Human Development
   (NICHD) - Est. 1962
   NICHD research on fertility, pregnancy, growth, development, and
   medical rehabilitation strives to ensure that every child is born
   healthy and wanted and grows up free from disease and disability. more
   >
   NIDCD logo graphic National Institute on Deafness and Other
   Communication Disorders (NIDCD) - Est. 1988
   NIDCD conducts and supports biomedical research and research training
   on normal mechanisms as well as diseases and disorders of hearing,
   balance, smell, taste, voice, speech, and language that affect 46
   million Americans. more >
   NIDCR logo National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research
   (NIDCR) - Est. 1948
   NIDCR provides leadership for a national research program designed to
   understand, treat, and ultimately prevent the infectious and inherited
   craniofacial-oral-dental diseases and disorders that compromise
   millions of human lives. more >
   NIDDK logo National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney
   Diseases (NIDDK) - Est. 1948
   NIDDK conducts and supports basic and applied research and provides
   leadership for a national program in diabetes, endocrinology, and
   metabolic diseases; digestive diseases and nutrition; and kidney,
   urologic, and hematologic diseases. Several of these diseases are among
   the leading causes of disability and death; all seriously affect the
   quality of life of those who have them. more >
   NIDA logo National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) - Est. 1973
   NIDA leads the nation in bringing the power of science to bear on drug
   abuse and addiction through support and conduct of research across a
   broad range of disciplines and rapid and effective dissemination of
   results of that research to improve drug abuse and addiction
   prevention, treatment, and policy. more >
   NIEHS logo National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS)
   - Est. 1969
   NIEHS reduces the burden of human illness and dysfunction from
   environmental causes by, defining how environmental exposures, genetic
   susceptibility, and age interact to affect an individual's health. more
   >
   NIGMS logo National Institute of General Medical Sciences (NIGMS) -
   Est. 1962
   NIGMS supports basic biomedical research that is not targeted to
   specific diseases. NIGMS funds studies on genes, proteins, and cells,
   as well as on fundamental processes like communication within and
   between cells, how our bodies use energy, and how we respond to
   medicines. The results of this research increase our understanding of
   life and lay the foundation for advances in disease diagnosis,
   treatment, and prevention. NIGMS also supports research training
   programs that produce the next generation of biomedical scientists, and
   it has special programs to encourage underrepresented minorities to
   pursue biomedical research careers. more >
   NIMH logo National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) - Est. 1949
   NIMH provides national leadership dedicated to understanding, treating,
   and preventing mental illnesses through basic research on the brain and
   behavior, and through clinical, epidemiological, and services research.
   more >
   NINDS logo National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke
   (NINDS) - Est. 1950
   The mission of the NINDS is to reduce the burden of neurological
   diseases -- a burden borne by every age group, every segment of
   society, and people all over the world. To accomplish this goal the
   NINDS supports and conducts research, both basic and clinical, on the
   normal and diseased nervous system, fosters the training of
   investigators in the basic and clinical neurosciences, and seeks better
   understanding, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of neurological
   disorders. more >
   NINR logo National Institute of Nursing Research (NINR) - Est. 1986
   NINR supports clinical and basic research to establish a scientific
   basis for the care of individuals across the life span--from the
   management of patients during illness and recovery to the reduction of
   risks for disease and disability; the promotion of healthy lifestyles;
   the promotion of quality of life in those with chronic illness; and the
   care for individuals at the end of life. This research may also include
   families within a community context, and it also focuses on the special
   needs of at-risk and under-served populations, with an emphasis on
   health disparities. more >
   NLM logo National Library of Medicine (NLM) - Est. 1956
   NLM collects, organizes, and makes available biomedical science
   information to investigators, educators, and practitioners and carries
   out programs designed to strengthen medical library services in the
   United States. Its electronic data bases, including MEDLINE and
   MEDLINEplus are used extensively throughout the world by both health
   professionals and the public. more >

   N I H Centers
   CIT logo Center for Information Technology (CIT formerly DCRT, OIRM,
   TCB) - Established in 1964
   CIT incorporates the power of modern computers into the biomedical
   programs and administrative procedures of the NIH by focusing on three
   primary activities: conducting-computational biosciences research,
   developing computer systems, and providing computer facilities. more >
   CSR logo Center for Scientific Review (CSR) - Est. 1946
   CSR is the focal point at NIH for the conduct of initial peer review,
   the foundation of the NIH grant and award process. The Center carries
   out peer review of the majority of research and research training
   applications submitted to the NIH. In addition, the Center serves as
   the central receipt point for all such Public Health Service (PHS)
   applications and makes referrals to scientific review groups for
   scientific and technical merit review of applications and to funding
   components for potential award. To this end, the Center develops and
   implements innovative, flexible ways to conduct referral and review for
   all aspects of science. more >
   FIC logo John E. Fogarty International Center (FIC) - Est. 1968
   FIC promotes and supports scientific research and training
   internationally to reduce disparities in global health. more >
   NCCAM logo National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine
   (NCCAM) - Est. 1992
   NCCAM is dedicated to exploring complementary and alternative medical
   (CAM) practices in the context of rigorous science; training CAM
   researchers and disseminating authoritative information. more >
   NCMHD logo National Center on Minority Health and Health Disparities
   (NCMHD) - Est. 1993 New Site
   The mission of NCMHD is to lead, coordinate, support, and assess the
   NIH effort to reduce and ultimately eliminate health disparities. In
   this effort, NCMHD conducts and supports basic, clinical and behavioral
   research, emerging programs, training, and information dissemination
   aimed at reducing the disproportionately high incidence and prevalence
   of disease, burden of illness, and mortality experienced by American
   populations who suffer from health disparities, including racial and
   ethnic minorities and other groups, such as the urban and rural poor.
   more >
   NCRR logo National Center for Research Resources (NCRR) - Est. 1990
   NCRR advances biomedical research and improves human health through
   research projects and shared resources that create, develop, and
   provide a comprehensive range of human, animal, technological, and
   other resources. NCRR's support is concentrated in four areas:
   biomedical technology, clinical research, comparative medicine, and
   research infrastructure. more >
   CC logo Warren Grant Magnuson Clinical Center (CC) - Est. 1953
   CC is the clinical research facility of the National Institutes of
   Health. As a national resource, it provides the patient care, services,
   and environment needed to initiate and support the highest quality
   conduct of and training in clinical research.
   more >




   This page was last reviewed on January 17, 2002 .

   [ Q&A About NIH | Employment Opportunities | Visitor Information | FOIA
   ]
   [ Recent Changes to This Site | Information for Employees | Información
   en español | Search ]
   [ Contact Us | Privacy Notice | Disclaimer | Accessibility]

  NIH Logo National Institutes of Health (NIH)
           Bethesda, Maryland 20892               DHHS Logo Department of Health
                                                            and Human Services
