http://ecolloq.gsfc.nasa.gov/archive/1998-Fall/sched.html


                        Goddard Engineering Colloquia

                             Fall 1998 Schedule

   All colloquia are held at 3:30 p. m. on Mondays in the Building 3
   Auditorium, unless otherwise indicated below. Any changes in the
   schedule will be indicated on this page with the minimum possible
   delay.

   NOTE: Readers are encouraged to print and post the announcements
   pointed to under "Topic" in the table below. For best printing results
   using Netscape Navigator, the suggested browser font size setting is
   12. For other browsers, it may be necessary to experiment. Feedback
   concerning printing problems would be welcomed by the author of these
   web pages.

   NOTE: Information to update the vacant slots in the table below will be
   provided as soon as it becomes available. Thank you for your patience.

   Date Topic Speaker
   September  21
   Special Event:
   Schneebaum Lecture  How to Cram a Cray J90 Supercomputer in a Shoebox
   Paul Boudreaux
   NSA Lab for Physical Sciences
   September 28  Mars Mission Refueling Station Paul Mueller
   Utah State University
   October 5  Austria and the Space Program Herbert Pichler
   Austrian Space Institute
   October 12
   No Colloquium (Holiday)
   October 19 The Jungles of Randomness Ivars Peterson
   Editor, Science News
   October 26  Nano-Satellite Technology Development  Peter Panetta
   GSFC
   November 2  High Temperature Super Conductors Paul Chu
   Texas Center for Superconductivity Research
   November 9 Early Automata Charles Cohen
   Cybernet Systems Corporation
   November 16  Higher Education and  Development David Bloom
   Harvard Institute for International Development
   November 23  Are Comets and Asteroids a Real Danger? Robert D. Chapman
   Allied Signal Technical Services
   November 30  Future Directions in Technology for Earth Science Ray
   Taylor
   GSFC - EOS Project
   December 7  New Satellites for Personal Communications John V. Evans
   Comsat
   December 14  Application of Signal Processing to Financial Markets
   Richard A. Mueller

   Return to Engineering Colloquium home page at
   http://ecolloq.gsfc.nasa.gov

   Notice: Nothing appearing in these pages is to be construed as an
   endorsement by NASA.
