http://www.nywb.uscourts.gov/localrules/index.html

   Eagle

         United States Bankruptcy Court
         for the
         Western District of New York

   home
   Calendars
   Search Decisions
   Search this site
   Judges
   Forms/Publications
   Local Rules
   Clerk's Office
   General Bankruptcy Info
   Tell Me More
   webPACER
   Electronic Case Filing
   Links

Local Rules

                       United States Bankruptcy Court

                        Western District of New York

                    Local Rules of Bankruptcy Proceedure

                                May 13, 1997

                       UNITED STATES BANKRUPTCY COURT

                        WESTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK

   ---------------------------------------------------------------------

   IN THE MATTER OF LOCAL RULES

   OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE ORDER

   ----------------------------------------------------------------------

   IT IS ORDERED PURSUANT TO RULE 9029 FEDERAL RULES OF BANKRUPTCY
   PROCEDURE:

   That the following Local Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure are adopted,
   effective May 13, 1997, to govern all cases pending or hereinafter
   filed in this District under Title 11, U.S.C.

   Effective May 13, 1997, this Court hereby abrogates the Local Rules of
   Bankruptcy Practice adopted February 1, 1988, together with all
   amendments thereto, and together will all Standing Orders and General
   Orders entered on the Court Miscellaneous Docket and identified as
   items 1. through 61. on the Conversion Table appended to the Following
   Local Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure. General Orders and Standing Orders
   identified as items 62. through 68. which address procedures applicable
   to Rochester and Watkins Glen exclusively are incorporated into the new
   Local Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure and will remain in full force and
   effect.

   SO ORDERED.

   FOR THE COURT

   Dated: May 6, 1997 /s/ Michael J. Kaplan

   MICHAEL J. KAPLAN

   CHIEF U.S. BANKRUPTCY JUDGE

   Dated: May 13, 1997 /s/ John C. Ninfo, II

   JOHN C. NINFO, II

   U.S. BANKRUPTCY JUDGE

   Dated: May 6, 1997 /s/ Carl L. Bucki

   CARL L. BUCKI

   U.S. BANKRUPTCY JUDGE

                              TABLE OF CONTENTS

   Rule Title Page

   1001 Scope of Local Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure 1

   1007 Lists, Schedules and Statements 1

   1009 Amendments of Voluntary Petitions, Lists, Schedules, and
   Statements 1

   1014 Change of Venue 1

   1015 Consolidation or Joint Administration 2

   1019 Conversion - Procedure Following 2

   1020 Chapter 11 Small Business Cases, General 2

   1072 Places of Holding Court 3

   1073 Assignment of Cases 3

   2002 Notices to Creditors, Equity Security Holders, United States, and
   United States Trustee 4

   2007 Trustees and Examiners 4

   2008 Notice to Trustee of Selection 5

   2010 Qualification by Trustee; Proceeding on Bond 5

   2014 Employment of Professionals 6

   2015 Trustees, Debtors-in-Possession Duties 7

   2016 Compensation of Professionals 7

   2020 Service on the Office of the United States Trustee 8

   2081 Chapter 11 9

   2090 Attorneys - Admission to Practice 9

   2091 Attorneys - Withdrawal 10

   3001 Claims and Equity Security Interests - General 11

   3007 Objections to Claims 11

   4001 Relief from Automatic Stay; Cash Collateral and Financing Orders
   11

   4008 Discharge and Reaffirmation Hearing 12

   5073 Photography, Recording Devices & Broadcasting 12

   5080 Fees - General 12

   5081 Fees - Form of Payment 13

   6004 Use, Sale or Lease of Property 13

   6007 Abandonment 13

   6070 Tax Returns & Tax Refunds 13

   7004 Service of Process 14

   7016 Pre-Trial Procedures 15

   7024 Unconstitutionality, Claim of 15

   7026 Discovery 16

   7040 Assignment of Adversary Proceeding 16

   7054 Costs - Taxation/Payment 16

   7055 Default - Failure to Prosecute 17

   7069 Judgment, Payment of 18

   8008 Appeals 18

   9004 Papers 19

   9006 Time Periods 19

   9010 Attorneys - Notice of Appearance 19

   9013 Motions: Form and Service 21

   9014 Contested Matters 21

   9015 Jury Trials 22

   9022 Judgments and Orders, Notice of 22

   9024 Relief from Judgment or Order 23

   9070 Exhibits 23

   9071 Stipulations 23

                                  APPENDIX

   1. Conversion table of Former Bankruptcy Rules to Current 24

   2. USDC Order of Reference (Filed 7/13/84) 27

   3. Implementation of the Act of July 10, 1984, Public Law 98-353 28

   4. Reaffirmation of the Orders Implementing the Act of July 10, 1984,
   Public Law 98-353 29

   5. Order of Appointment of Chief Bankruptcy Judge 30

   Rule 1001. SCOPE OF LOCAL RULES OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE

   1001-1. TITLE AND NUMBERING SEQUENCE [Former Rule 1]

   These local rules, to be known as the "Local Rules of Bankruptcy
   Procedure" for the Western District of New York, supplement the Federal
   Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure, and shall govern bankruptcy practice in
   the United States District Court and United States Bankruptcy Court for
   the Western District of New York, and supersede all previous Local
   Bankruptcy Rules.

   Rule 1007. LISTS, SCHEDULES AND STATEMENTS

   1007-1. NUMBER OF COPIES [Former Rule 11 A & B] [SO 8/14/85]

   A. An original and three (3) copies of a petition, lists, schedules and
   statements under chapter 7 or chapter 13 of the Bankruptcy Code and
   amendments thereto shall be filed. These documents shall be filed in
   the order prescribed by the Clerk of the U.S. Bankruptcy Court.

   B. An original and six (6) copies of a petition, lists, schedules and
   statements under chapter 9, chapter 11, or chapter 12 of the Bankruptcy
   Code and amendments thereto shall be filed. An original and six (6)
   copies of chapter 11 disclosure statements and plans shall be filed.

   1007-2. MASTER MAILING MATRIX [Former Rule 18B]

   In addition to the list of creditors required by Rule 1007(a)
   Fed.R.Bankr.P., in all cases a list of creditors shall be filed by the
   debtor, or such party as may be ordered, in a form specified by the
   Bankruptcy Clerk which shall be known as the matrix. The matrix shall
   be supplemented or modified by the responsible party, to include all
   parties that are required to be given notice, so the Clerk can rely on
   the matrix in the performance of his or her duties.

   Rule 1009. AMENDMENTS OF VOLUNTARY PETITIONS, LISTS, SCHEDULES AND
   STATEMENTS

   1009-1. AMENDMENTS [General Orders 3/21/88 & 1/8/92]

   Amendments to voluntary petitions, lists (including the mailing
   matrix), schedules and statements must have a completed "Amendment
   Cover Sheet" affixed to the front thereof in a form prescribed by the
   Clerk. No purported amendment of any type will be acknowledged,
   recognized or processed as such by the Office of the Clerk in the
   absence of an Amendment Cover Sheet. The term "amendment" includes the
   delayed initial filing of a schedule, statement, list or other document
   that discloses the existence of parties-in-interest who were not
   disclosed in the list of creditors that accompanied the petition.
   Guidelines regarding amendments are available in the Bankruptcy Court
   Clerk's Office.

   Rule 1014. CHANGE OF VENUE

   1014-1. REASSIGNMENT OF CASES [Former Rule 10 B]

   If the convenience or best interests of creditors would be served by
   the scheduling of a case in a geographical area served by another
   Judge, the assigned Bankruptcy Judge may reassign the case, on
   application of a party in interest.

   Rule 1015. CONSOLIDATION OR JOINT ADMINISTRATION [Former Rule 17 A thru
   D]

   1015-1. A. Upon the entry of an Order of Joint Administration of two or
   more related cases, the Clerk shall:

   1. Designate any one of said cases to be the lead case for purposes of
   docketing and filing.

   2. Enter the Order of Joint Administration simultaneously on the
   dockets of all cases covered by the Order and file a copy of the Order
   of Joint Administration in the case file of all cases covered by the
   Order, except the lead case.

   3. File the original of the Order of Joint Administration in the case
   file of the lead case.

   4. Thereafter, maintain only the lead case file and docket for all
   activity affecting any of the jointly-administered cases.

   B. The party which obtained the Order for Joint Administration shall,
   within ten (10) days of the entry of said Order, file with the Court a
   consolidated matrix comprising a total mailing list of all interested
   parties in all the jointly administered cases, without duplication.

   C. Adequate safeguards shall be established by the Clerk to assure that
   parties interested in examining the docket or file of a case that is
   not the lead case will be directed thereby to the docket and file of
   the lead case for further matters affecting the case in question.
   Furthermore, to the extent that a docketable paper or event clearly
   pertains to less than all of the jointly-administered cases, the docket
   entry made on the lead docket shall so indicate this to enable parties
   to more readily examine the activities in any one of the
   jointly-administered cases.

   D. Notwithstanding the above, the Clerk may require parties in
   interest, or request the Court to seek, obtain, or execute separate
   documents for each case where necessary for purposes of clarity,
   statistical reporting, case closing or other similar cause.

   Rule 1019. CONVERSION - PROCEDURE FOLLOWING

   1019. [RESERVED] [Former Rule 20]

   Rule 1020-1. CHAPTER 11 SMALL BUSINESS CASES, GENERAL [Former Rule 41]

   1020-1. A. ELECTION TO BE CONSIDERED A SMALL BUSINESS IN A CHAPTER 11
   REORGANIZATION CASE: In a chapter 11 reorganization case, a debtor that
   is a small business may elect to be considered a small business by
   filing a written statement of election no later than 60 days after the
   date of the order for relief or by a later date as the Court, for
   cause, may fix.

   B. APPROVAL OF DISCLOSURE STATEMENT:

   1. Conditional Approval: If the debtor is a small business and has made
   a timely election to be considered a small business in a chapter 11
   case, the Court may, on application of the plan proponent,
   conditionally approve a disclosure statement filed in accordance with
   Rule 3016 Fed.R.Bankr.P. On or before conditional approval of the
   disclosure statement, the Court shall:

   (a) fix a time within which the holders of claims and interests may
   accept or reject the plan;

   (b) fix a time for filing objections to the disclosure statement;

   (c) fix a date for the hearing on final approval of the disclosure
   statement to be held if a timely objection is filed; and

   (d) fix a date for the hearing on confirmation.

   2. Application of Rule 3017 Fed.R.Bankr.P.: If the disclosure statement
   is conditionally approved, Rule 3017(a), (b), (c) and (e)
   Fed.R.Bankr.P. do not apply. Conditional approval of the disclosure
   statement is considered approval of the disclosure statement for the
   purpose of applying Rule 3017(d) Fed.R.Bankr.P.

   3. Objections and Hearing on Final Approval: Notice of the time fixed
   for filing objections and the hearing to consider final approval of the
   disclosure statement shall be given in accordance with Rule 2002
   Fed.R.Bankr.P. and may be combined with notice of the hearing on
   confirmation of the plan. Objections to the disclosure statement shall
   be filed, transmitted to the United States Trustee, and served on the
   debtor, the trustee, any committee appointed under the Bankruptcy Code
   and any other entity designated by the Court at any time before final
   approval of the disclosure statement or by an earlier date as the Court
   may fix. If a timely objection to the disclosure statement is filed,
   the Court shall hold a hearing to consider final approval before or
   combined with the hearing on confirmation of the plan.

   Rule 1072. PLACES OF HOLDING COURT

   1072-1. SESSIONS OF COURT [Former Rule 8]

   Regular and continuous sessions of the Bankruptcy Court shall be held
   at Buffalo and Rochester. Special sessions of the Court shall be held
   at Mayville, Olean, Niagara Falls, Batavia and Watkins Glen at such
   times as may be necessary.

   1072-2. SCHEDULING OF CASES AND PROCEEDINGS AS AMONG PLACES OF HOLDING
   COURT [Former Rule 10E]

   Giving due regard to the convenience of a debtor, creditors, and equity
   holders, as well as to the availability of Court support services, the
   Judge assigned to the case or, if delegated to the Clerk, the Clerk may
   schedule hearings and trials in a case at a place of holding Court
   other than that which is in closest proximity to the debtor's residence
   or of place of business.

   Rule 1073. ASSIGNMENT OF CASES [Former Rule 10A(1) thru A(5) and Former
   10 D]]

   1073-1. ASSIGNMENT OF BANKRUPTCY CASES TO BANKRUPTCY JUDGES

   A. Upon filing, the Clerk shall assign each bankruptcy case to a
   specific Bankruptcy Judge in accordance with the following directives:

   1. As to cases arising in Erie County, assignment shall be made by
   random selection as between the two Bankruptcy Judges stationed at
   Buffalo, utilizing a formula assuring an equitable distribution of
   those cases based upon their total case loads.

   2. As to cases arising in Niagara, Orleans, Genesee, and Wyoming
   Counties, to a Bankruptcy Judge stationed at Buffalo as specified by
   the Chief Judge.

   3. As to cases arising in Chautauqua, Cattaraugus, and Allegany
   Counties, to a Bankruptcy Judge stationed at Buffalo as specified by
   the Chief Judge.

   4. As to cases arising in Monroe, Chemung, Livingston, Ontario,
   Schuyler, Seneca, Steuben, Wayne, and Yates Counties, to a Bankruptcy
   Judge stationed at Rochester.

   5. General Provisions:

   a. For the purposes of these subsections, a business debtor's case
   shall be deemed to have arisen in the county in which the principal
   place of business is located if there is a principal place of business
   within the district.

   b. If these rules of assignment result in a disproportionate load of
   cases falling upon a Bankruptcy Judge, they may be changed upon a
   majority vote of the Judges.

   c. Any case inadvertently assigned to a Judge in contravention of this
   rule shall be reassigned by the Chief Judge.

   B. Exigencies

   To expedite the flow of cases, proceedings or matters, the Judges may
   agree to the reassignment of cases, matters, or proceedings to meet
   exigencies arising in the conduct of a given Judge's calendar. In the
   absence of the Judge assigned to a case, adversary proceeding, or
   contested matter, any other Judge may act.

   Rule 2002. NOTICES TO CREDITORS, EQUITY SECURITY HOLDERS, UNITED
   STATES,AND UNITED STATES TRUSTEE [Former Rule 14G] [SO 4/22/86]

   2002-1. A. A party filing a motion which requires notice to creditors
   and/or a creditors' committee in addition to service upon adverse
   parties shall arrange with the Clerk for such noticing and schedule the
   hearing accordingly.

   B. Notices to creditors required by 2002(a) Fed.R.Bankr.P. in chapter
   13 cases will be issued and served by the Standing Chapter 13 Trustee.
   The Chapter 13 Trustee will file an affidavit of service with the Court
   to evidence service of each notice. The cost of issuing such notices
   shall be considered an administrative expense of each Chapter 13
   Office.

   C. Debtors-in-Possession (or plan proponent if other than the debtor)
   are directed to serve the Notice of the Hearing on Confirmation of a
   Plan complete with a copy of the Disclosure Statement, Plan and Ballot
   and upon confirmation of a plan, the notice of entry of the Order
   Confirming the Plan pursuant to the requirements of Rule 2002(d)(6)
   Fed.R.Bankr.P.

   Rule 2007. TRUSTEES AND EXAMINERS

   2007-1. [RESERVED] [Former Rule 18]

   2007-1.1. ELECTION OF TRUSTEE IN A CHAPTER 11 REORGANIZATION CASE [Rule
   40]

   A. REQUEST FOR AN ELECTION: A request to convene a meeting of creditors
   for the purpose of electing a trustee in a chapter 11 reorganization
   shall be filed and transmitted to the United States Trustee in
   accordance with Rule 5005 Fed.R.Bankr.P. within the time prescribed by
   § 1104(b) of the Bankruptcy Code. Pending Court approval of the person
   elected, a person appointed trustee under § 1104(d) shall serve as
   trustee.

   B. MATTER OF ELECTION AND NOTICE: An election of a trustee under §
   1104(b) of the Code shall be conducted in the manner provided in Rules
   2003(b)(3) and 2006 Fed.R.Bankr.P. Notice of the meeting of creditors
   convened under § 1104(b) shall be given in the manner and within the
   time provided for notices under 2002(a) Fed.R.Bankr.P. A proxy for the
   purpose of voting in the election may be solicited by a committee
   appointed under § 1102 of the Code and by any other party entitled to
   solicit a proxy under Rule 2006 Fed.R.Bankr.P.

   C. APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF APPOINTMENT AND RESOLUTION OF DISPUTES:
   If it is not necessary to resolve a dispute regarding the election of
   the trustee or if all disputes have been resolved by the Court, the
   United States Trustee shall promptly appoint the person elected to be
   trustee and file an application for approval of the appointment of the
   elected person under Rule 2001.1(b) Fed.R.Bankr.P., except that the
   application does not have to contain names of parties in interest with
   whom the United States Trustee has consulted.

   If it is necessary to resolve a dispute regarding the election, the
   United States Trustee shall promptly file a report informing the Court
   of the dispute. If no motion for the resolution of the dispute is filed
   within 10 days after the date of the creditors' meeting called under
   §1104(b), a person appointed by the United States Trustee in accordance
   with § 1104(d) of the Code and approved in accordance with Rule 2007(b)
   Fed.R.Bankr.P. shall serve as trustee.

   Rule 2008. NOTICE TO TRUSTEE OF ELECTION [SO 4/23/96]

   2008-1. FILING OF BLANKET TRUSTEE DESIGNATION IN CHAPTER 13 CASES

   The Court will accept a blanket designation for standing Chapter 13
   Trustees in lieu of a separate designation for each chapter 13 case
   filed in the Western District of New York. A separate designation must
   be filed in the event of a substitution of trustee so designated under
   the blanket designation.

   Rule 2010. QUALIFICATION BY TRUSTEE; PROCEEDING ON BOND [SO 7/31/90]

   2010-1. TRUSTEE'S REIMBURSEMENT OF BLANKET BOND PREMIUMS:

   A. The trustee shall issue one check or money order for the entire bond
   premium and provide a copy of that check to the Office of the United
   States Trustee.

   B. The trustee may be reimbursed from that trustee's estates pending on
   the date of issuance of the premium check, at the bond premium rate,
   or,

   C. In the alternative, the trustee may allocate the premium paid pro
   rata to those cases comprising the substantial majority (in dollar
   amount) of assets under the trustees administration on the date of
   issuance of the premium check. The trustee shall issue reimbursement
   checks from the individual estates according to their pro rata share.

   D. In no event shall the aggregate amount of the reimbursement checks
   exceed the amount of the premium paid.

   Rule 2014. EMPLOYMENT OF PROFESSIONALS

   2014-1. DEFINITION [Former Rule 5A]

   "Counsel for the estate." An attorney who has obtained an order of the
   Court approving his or her employment as attorney for a chapter 11
   debtor-in-possession or for a chapter 7, 12, or 13 trustee is counsel
   for the estate of the debtor. Corporate debtors must be represented by
   an attorney of record. Papers, including petitions, filed by a
   corporate debtor which has no attorney of record, may be received but
   later dismissed, sua sponte, by the Judge to whom the case is assigned.

   2014-2. DUTY OF COUNSEL FOR THE ESTATE WITH REGARD TO ESTATE'S
   EMPLOYMENT OF OTHER PROFESSIONALS [Former Rule 5 B]

   A. Appraisers, auctioneers, accountants, brokers, special counsels,
   consultants, independent managers, and other professional persons
   employed by the debtors' estates are often unfamiliar with the
   requirements of bankruptcy law regarding the need for prior Court
   approval of their employment; regarding the record keeping and
   reporting requirements applicable to sustain their claim to subsequent
   compensation from the estate; and regarding the risk that there may be
   insufficient assets in the estate to satisfy such claims. Whether or
   not a professional person is familiar with such considerations, it is
   necessary and desirable that the responsibility for obtaining Court
   approval of such employment and for advising professionals of the
   responsibilities and risks of such employment be placed on the attorney
   for the estate.

   B. Whenever the estate employs any other professional whose employment
   requires Court approval under the Bankruptcy Code or Rules, it is the
   duty of counsel for the estate to ensure that such approval is properly
   sought, and to advise the professional of the requirements and risks,
   if any, pertaining to the professional's ability to subsequently obtain
   compensation and reimbursement of expenses from the estate.

   C. Estate counsel who fails to satisfy such duties may be determined by
   the Court to be personally responsible for any compensation and
   reimbursement of expenses lost to any professional as a result thereof.

   2014-3. DUTY OF ATTORNEY COMMENCING A CHAPTER 11 CASE ON BEHALF OF A
   DEBTOR WHICH IS A CORPORATION. [Former Rule 5 C]

   A. A corporation which is a debtor-in-possession must be represented by
   an attorney duly admitted to practice before this Court and duly
   approved to serve as counsel for the estate by order of the Court.

   B. It is the duty of an attorney who commences a chapter 11 case
   (whether by original petition or by obtaining an order of conversion to
   such chapter) on behalf of a corporate debtor to ensure that the debtor
   properly seeks approval of estate counsel promptly upon such
   commencement, or, in the alternative, to file with the Court an
   affidavit reciting that he or she has advised the debtor that the case
   would be dismissed or converted for absence of a counsel for the
   estate, reciting the diligent efforts made by the attorney both before
   and after the commencement of the chapter 11 case in assisting the
   debtor in obtaining such counsel, and explaining why such counsel was
   not obtained.

   C. An attorney who fails in such duties may be found personally liable
   to any party who is damaged by the failure of the estate to be suitable
   represented.

   Rule 2015. TRUSTEES, DEBTORS-IN-POSSESSION DUTIES

   2015-1. [RESERVED] [Former Rule 18]

   Rule 2016. COMPENSATION OF PROFESSIONALS [Former Rules 38 & 39] [SO
   7/30/90]

   2016-1. PROFESSIONAL PERSONS - COMPENSATION AND REIMBURSEMENT OF
   EXPENSES

   In all cases under Title 11, requests for interim or final compensation
   shall be in a form prescribed by the Bankruptcy Clerk, who shall, at a
   minimum, require the applicant to include a one page face sheet bearing
   the caption of the case, the name and address of the applicant or
   applicants, the dates upon which the case was filed and the applicant
   was appointed, the nature and the date or the period of services
   rendered, a typewritten time sheet with a description of services
   rendered, and the amount of compensation or expense reimbursement
   sought. (If both compensation and reimbursement are sought, the amounts
   shall be separately stated.) The application should also include a
   statement of prior applications and prior allowances.

   A. All supporting documentation shall be attached to the application
   and, if it is an application for interim compensation, it shall also
   contain an affidavit or unsworn declaration reciting why the applicant
   should not be required to await the filing of a final report in the
   case. The Court may take judicial notice of any facts of record
   warranting denial of the application as having been prematurely made.

   B. All applications must be filed at least twenty-five (25) days prior
   to a calendar at which the application is to be considered.

   C. Non-appearance of an applicant at the scheduled hearing shall be
   deemed to be a consent to the disposition of the application on the
   filed papers and record, if any, of the hearing.

   To aid the Court and any party in interest in reviewing compensation
   statements filed by attorneys:

   (a) The "compensation" paid or to be paid to an attorney shall include
   all legal fees and all charges of whatever character paid or to be paid
   by the debtor or other entity. Charges shall be identified and, if not
   self explanatory, justified.

   (b) Basic services to be performed are:

   (1) Analysis of the financial situation and rendering advice and
   assistance to the client in determining whether to file a petition
   under Title 11, United States Code;

   (2) Preparation and filing of the petition, lists, statements or
   schedules in a chapter 7 or 13 case;

   (3) Representation of the debtor at the § 341 meeting;

   (4) Amend lists, statements or schedules to comport with developments
   which may have occurred before or at the § 341 meeting;

   (5) Motions under § 522(f) to avoid liens on exempt property;

   (6) Motions, such as motions for abandonment, or proceedings to clear
   title to real property owned by the debtor;

   (7) Removal of garnishments or wage assignments;

   ADDITIONAL SERVICES REQUIRED IN CHAPTER 7 CASES

   (8) Negotiate, prepare and file reaffirmation agreements;

   (9) Motions under § 722 to redeem exempt personal property from liens;

   ADDITIONAL SERVICES REQUIRED IN CHAPTER 13 CASES

   (10) Attend confirmation hearings;

   (11) Negotiate valuation of secured claims and/or present evidence
   thereon at confirmation hearing.

   (c) If, in the attorneys judgment, the performance of the above basic
   services required or will require unusual expenditures of time he or
   she should so state and annex time sheets or projections of time
   supporting the claim.

   2016-2. APPLICATIONS FOR FEES BY THE ATTORNEY FOR THE DEBTOR IN CHAPTER
   7 CASES [Former Rule 39] [SO 6/12/84; SO 7/30/90]

   A. The expeditious administration of chapter 7 estates is hindered by
   the delays by debtors' attorneys in the filing of applications for
   allowances from the estate under 11 U.S.C. Sec. 330. Therefore, the
   failure to file any fee allowance application by such an attorney
   before fifteen (15) days after the mailing of the Rule 2002(f)(9)
   Fed.R.Bankr.P. notice of the trustee's final report in any case shall
   be deemed a waiver of the allowance.

   B. All actual compensation and disbursements whether charged by
   attorneys to the debtor, debtor's estate or any entity paying on behalf
   of the debtor or debtor's estate prior to or during the pendency of a
   case must be fully disclosed in a supplemental statement filed in
   accordance with Rule 2016(b) Fed.R.Bankr.P. [A disclosed fee which is
   to be charged in the event of a contingent future service, and which is
   charged, shall be disclosed in a supplemental statement].

   C. Supplemental statements by attorneys as to compensation sought from
   the estate shall be supported by time sheets and detail as to any
   disbursements charged and shall be accompanied by a motion [notice
   thereof to be given by the requesting party to parties in interest in
   accordance with Rule 2002(a)(7) Fed.R.Bankr.P.].

   Rule 2020. SERVICE ON THE OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRUSTEE

   2020-1. DUTIES OF CLERK OF COURT [Former Rule 15 A & B]

   A. The Clerk of the Court shall ensure that the Office of the United
   States Trustee for the district is placed on the mailing matrix in each
   case filed with the Court and is sent notices (including notices of
   appeal) issued by the Clerk or such other person as the Court may
   direct.

   B. The Clerk's office shall collect enough copies of petitions,
   statements, schedules, and amendments thereof to furnish the Office of
   the United States Trustee with two (2) copies of each.

   2020-2. DUTIES OF PARTIES [Former Rule 15 C]

   A. Parties shall serve a copy of all documents initiating a request for
   a Court order or judgment, except proofs of claim or interest, on the
   Office of the United States Trustee. This includes but is not limited
   to all pleadings in adversary proceedings and contested matters.

   Rule 2081 CHAPTER 11 [Former Rule 19]

   2081-1. CHAPTER 11 REPORTS [RESERVED]

   Rule 2090. ATTORNEYS - ADMISSION TO PRACTICE

   2090-1. ADMISSION TO BANKRUPTCY PRACTICE AND ATTORNEYS OF RECORD
   [Former Rule 2 A thru F; Former Rule 3 A thru E]

   A. Prior Admission. A person admitted to practice in the United States
   District Court for the Western District of New York before October 1,
   1979, is admitted for bankruptcy practice in the Western District of
   New York. A person subsequently admitted to bankruptcy practice under
   prior local bankruptcy rules is admitted for bankruptcy practice in the
   Western District of New York.

   B. Who may apply. A person admitted to practice before the United
   States District Court for the Western District of New York.

   C. Verified Petition. Each applicant for admission shall file with the
   Clerk of the Bankruptcy Court a verified petition for admission
   stating:

   (1) Applicant's residence and office address;

   (2) That the applicant has been admitted to practice before the United
   States District Court for the Western District of New York and the date
   of said admission;

   (3) That the applicant has read and is familiar with:

   (a) The provisions of Judicial Code 28 U.S.C., section 1334, sections
   151 through 158, and sections 1408 through 1412, and section 1452,
   which pertain to jurisdiction over and venue of bankruptcy cases,
   proceedings and matters.

   (b) The Bankruptcy Code, Title 11 U.S.C.;

   (c) The Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure;

   (d) The Local Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure for the Western District of
   New York.

   D. Other Admission Prerequisites. Upon the filing of the aforesaid
   verified petition, taking of the oath, and signing of the attorneys'
   roll, a person shall be admitted for bankruptcy practice and the Clerk
   shall issue a certificate to that effect.

   E. Admission Pro Hac Vice. An attorney duly admitted to practice in any
   state, territory, district, or foreign country may be admitted pro hac
   vice to participate in a bankruptcy case or proceeding before the
   District or Bankruptcy Court under such terms or conditions as may be
   appropriate.

   F. Government Attorneys. An attorney duly appointed to represent the
   United States is permitted to appear on any matter within the scope of
   his or her employment.

   G. Only members admitted under LBR 2090 may represent a debtor, be
   approved for employment as counsel in a bankruptcy case, or appear
   before the District or Bankruptcy Court in the litigation of adversary
   proceedings and contested matters.

   H. An attorney who has not obtained District or Bankruptcy Court
   approval to represent a party when required by Bankruptcy Codes and
   Rules may not appear in representation of that party.

   I. An attorney who accepts employment by a debtor in connection with
   the filing of a case under Title 11, United States Code, has the duty
   to render complete and competent service, to file with the Court a
   statement disclosing all payments rendered from a debtor or
   debtor-in-possession, and may not withdraw from that undertaking
   without the permission of the District or Bankruptcy Court.

   J. Applications to approve employment as attorney of record (whenever
   Court approval of such employment is required by statute or rule) must
   include the following:

   (1) an application, signed by the party seeking to retain counsel,
   which sets forth the reason this attorney should be hired, the services
   this attorney will provide, the arrangements reached with regard to
   when and how the attorney will be paid, the prior relationship between
   the applicant and the attorney, and the fact that no fees are to be
   paid unless and until there is specific Court approval;

   (2) an affidavit from the attorney setting forth when he or she was
   admitted to practice in New York State and to bankruptcy practice in
   the Western District of New York, his or her qualifications; a
   statement of disinterestedness sufficient to persuade the Court that
   there is no conflict of interest; attorney's prior relationship with
   the debtor-client and the date upon which the petition was filed;

   (3) an Order appointing counsel which clearly sets forth that no fees
   are to be paid without Court approval and the date from which the
   appointment is effective.

   K. An attorney who seeks an order approving employment may do so ex
   parte unless the initial post-petition services date back more than
   thirty (30) days. The attorney otherwise shall file a motion and notice
   all parties in interest of the motion and hearing date. The attorney
   must submit the application and notice to the Clerk of the Bankruptcy
   Court and obtain approval that they are adequate as to form and content
   before mailing the notices. The attorney shall prepare and mail such
   applications, unless the Court orders otherwise.

   2090-2. ATTORNEYS - DISCIPLINE AND DISBARMENT [Former Rule 4 A & B]

   A. Any person admitted to bankruptcy practice in the Western District
   of New York may be disbarred from practice or otherwise disciplined
   after hearing, after such notice as the District or Bankruptcy Court
   may direct. Any member of the bar who has been disbarred in a state in
   which he or she was admitted to practice shall have his or her name
   stricken from the roll of attorneys or, if suspended from practice for
   a period at said bar, shall be suspended automatically for a like
   period from bankruptcy practice in the Western District of New York.

   B. Discipline and/or suspension from practice specifically may be
   directed against any attorney who conducts himself or herself in a
   manner demonstrating inability to properly represent his or her
   clients' interests. [See "Malpractice in Bankruptcy - Observations from
   the Bench" in Commercial Law Journal (March 1985) pp. 95-100, Hon.
   Harold Lavien, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge for the District of Mass.]

   Rule 2091. ATTORNEYS -WITHDRAWAL

   2091-1. WITHDRAWAL [Former Rule 3 F & G]

   A. Withdrawal shall be permitted only by order granted upon:

   (1) motion to withdraw, served upon the withdrawing attorney's client
   and such other parties as the Court directs; or

   (2) if satisfactory to the Court, stipulation of counsel and parties
   affected thereby.

   B. An attorney who has appeared in a case under chapters 7 and 13 as
   the attorney of record for the debtor may be displaced without order of
   the Court by filing with the Court a Notice of Substitution of
   Attorney. The successor attorney shall file with the Court a Statement
   of Compensation pursuant to Rule 2016 Fed.R.Bankr.P. within ten (10)
   days of the Notice of Substitution of Attorney.

   C. An order granting permission to withdraw or to substitute shall
   become effective upon ten (10) days notice to all attorneys of record
   unless the Court specifically directs that the order shall become
   effective upon entry.

   Rule 3001. CLAIMS AND EQUITY SECURITY INTERESTS - GENERAL

   3001-1. TRANSFER OR CLAIM [O 7/15/94]

   The Clerk of Court is to accept for filing a waiver of notice of a
   claim other than for security after proof filed when said notice is
   signed by the transferring entity and further notice need not be made.
   When said waiver of notice is accompanied by a properly completed
   assignment of claim form, the Clerk of Court shall substitute the
   transferee for the transferor.

   Rule 3007. OBJECTIONS TO CLAIMS [SO 5/20/93]

   3007-1. Rochester and Watkins Glen objections to claims may be granted
   without a hearing after the Court has considered the objection and
   determined the sufficiency of the claim and the objection, unless a
   request for a hearing is served and filed within the time permitted.
   Guidelines designed to comply with this procedure are available in the
   Bankruptcy Court Clerk's Office.

   Rule 4001. RELIEF FROM AUTOMATIC STAY; CASH COLLATERAL AND FINANCING
   ORDERS [SO 8/4/83]

   4001-1. A. Applicability of Local Bankruptcy Rule 9013. Except as
   otherwise provided herein, Local Bankruptcy Rule 9013 applies to
   motions for relief from stay, use of cash collateral, adequate
   protection, and financing orders.

   B. MOTIONS FOR RELIEF FROM STAY

   The thirty (30) days within which the Court must preliminarily rule on
   such a motion under 11U.S.C. § 362(e) shall be computed from the date
   on which a motion is served on opposing parties and filed with the
   Court. In addition to those parties listed in Rule 4001 Fed.R.Bankr.P.,
   notice shall be given to the debtor, attorney for the debtor, trustee
   or examiner, the United States Trustee, to any persons requesting
   special notice under Rule 2002(i) Fed.R.Bankr.P., and any chapter 11
   creditors' committee or other official committee duly appointed in a
   chapter 11 case.

   4001-2. [RESERVED] [Former Rules 18 & 24]

   CASH COLLATERAL OR ADEQUATE PROTECTION AGREEMENTS [SO 10/30/85]

   All requests for orders approving adequate protection or cash
   collateral agreements or stipulations shall be sought by written motion
   and notice of motion, and shall be the subject of a hearing. The party
   seeking the order shall prepare and serve the motion and notice of
   motion. Notice shall be given to the parties to the agreement, all
   parties having any other interest in the collateral, and the creditors'
   committee, if any, and the United States Trustee. If there is no
   creditors' committee,

   notice shall be given to the twenty largest creditors. At the hearing,
   after inquiry into the content and consequences of the agreement, the
   Court may direct a further hearing on notice to all creditors or all
   parties-in-interest. The Court will entertain without a hearing,
   requests for an order approving a cash collateral agreement or a
   stipulation which provides for nothing more than a replacement lien on
   post-petition assets, in an amount equal to the amount of cash
   collateral used.

   Rule 4008. DISCHARGE AND REAFFIRMATION HEARING [GO 11/21/86]

   4008-1. Reaffirmation agreements submitted must be accompanied by Form
   B240 (or a form which substantially conforms to Form B240) and must be
   completed and signed. Debtors will no longer be required to attend a
   discharge hearing, except as provided below. Discharge Hearing
   Calendars will be conducted on a regular basis throughout the district,
   at which debtors may present themselves for a full explanation of the
   meaning of discharge and of reaffirmation. Times and places of such
   calendars are available from the Clerk.

   A. Pro Se Debtors. A discharge hearing must be attended by a pro se
   debtor filing a reaffirmation agreement. The Clerk will issue an
   informational letter to the debtor and a form to request a § 524(d)
   hearing.

   B. Reaffirmation Agreement Accompanied by Attorney's Declaration. The
   debtor shall not be required to attend a discharge hearing if the
   debtor is represented by an attorney who attaches a declaration
   prepared pursuant to § 524(c)(3).

   C. Reaffirmation Agreement Not Accompanied by Attorney's Declaration. A
   discharge hearing must be attended by the debtor if a reaffirmation
   agreement is not accompanied by a completed Attorney's Declaration. The
   Clerk will issue an information letter to the debtor and a form to
   request a § 524(d) hearing.

   Rule 5073. PHOTOGRAPHY, RECORDING DEVICES & BROADCASTING

   5073-1. CAMERAS AND RECORDING DEVICES [Former Rule 9]

   A. The taking of photographs, or making of oral or video tape
   recordings, or radio or television broadcasting in a courtroom during
   the progress of or in connection with judicial proceedings, whether or
   not Court is actually in session, is prohibited. None of the foregoing
   activities is allowed in the jury rooms, the offices of the Judges or
   Court reporters, or in any room hallway or corridor of the floor of the
   building in which the courtrooms are located, except with the express
   consent of the Court.

   B. The Court may except ceremonial and investitive proceedings from
   this prohibition.

   C. Court reporters are not prohibited by this rule from making sound
   recordings for the sole purpose of discharging their official duties.
   No recording made for that purpose shall be used for any other purpose
   by any person. Likewise, personnel of the Court are not prohibited by
   Section A of this rule from making sound recordings in the course of
   their work.

   Rule 5080. FEES - GENERAL

   5080-1. PAYMENT OF FEES [Former Rule 22]

   The Bankruptcy Clerk, unless otherwise ordered by the Court, shall not
   be required to render any service for which a fee is prescribed by
   statute or by the Judicial Conference of the United States unless the
   fee for such service is paid in advance and as specified in LBR Rule
   5081.

   Rule 5081. FEES - FORM OF PAYMENT

   5081-1. FORM OF PAYMENTS [Former Rule 22]

   Fees must be tendered in cash or by certified check, bank draft, or
   money order. The Clerk may specify other forms of payment.

   Rule 6004. USE, SALE OR LEASE OF PROPERTY

   6004-1. STATEMENT, FORM, AND NOTICE [Former Rule 25 and Rule 26
   (RESERVED)] [SO 8/9/83]

   A. Except as to sales in the ordinary course of operating a business,
   the trustee or debtor in possession shall file with the Bankruptcy
   Court a statement identifying any estate property proposed to be sold
   and the date and manner of such sale. The statement shall contain
   sufficient detail to enable creditors to make an informed judgment as
   to the wisdom of the proposed disposition. At a minimum, the statement
   shall contain a description of the property. A statement of sale shall
   contain a description of the manner and terms of sale, the name of the
   buyer and purchase price, if known. If the case is a chapter 11 case, a
   statement as to whether the sale is all or substantially all of the
   debtor's assets, and the effect the sale will have upon the debtor's
   ability to reorganize.

   B. Except as provided in Rule 6004(c) Fed.R.Bankr.P., and subdivision C
   hereof, notice of the filing of the statement and a summary thereof
   shall be sent to all creditors. The notice also shall advise creditors
   that they may obtain a hearing on the proposed disposition by filing a
   written demand for a hearing with the Court within twenty (20) days of
   the notice date.

   C. Where the statement discloses a sale of all or substantially all of
   the assets, the Clerk shall set the matter for hearing and notice shall
   be sent to all creditors.

   Rule 6007. ABANDONMENT

   6007-1. STATEMENT, FORM AND NOTICE [Former Rule 25; parts of A & B]

   A. The trustee or debtor in possession shall file with the Bankruptcy
   Court a statement identifying any estate property proposed to be
   abandoned and the date and manner of such abandonment. That statement
   shall contain sufficient detail to enable creditors to make an informed
   judgment as to the wisdom of the proposed disposition. At a minimum,
   the statement shall contain a description of the property.

   B. Notice of the filing of the abandonment statement and a summary
   thereof shall be sent to all creditors. The notice also shall advise
   creditors that they may obtain a hearing on the proposed disposition by
   filing a written demand for a hearing with the Court within twenty (20)
   days of the notice date.

   Rule 6070. TAX RETURNS & TAX REFUNDS [Former Rule 42]

   6070-1. A. In General. The failure of a debtor in an asset case under
   any chapter of Title 11 of the United States Code to file any required
   tax return promptly after filing the petition or after conversion may
   constitute "cause" for dismissal or conversion of the case upon a
   request by a party in interest and after hearing on notice.

   B. As to "Estimated" Tax Claims. Concurrent with the debtor's duty to
   file tax returns is the duty to assure that improper distributions are
   not made upon "estimated" tax claims resulting from the Debtor's
   failure to file returns.

   Overpayment of taxes by allowance of unduly-high "estimated" tax claims
   may occur to the prejudice of other unsecured creditors, whose
   percentage distribution may be reduced for the benefit of the excessive
   "priority" tax claim.

   Underpayment of taxes by allowance of unduly-low "estimated" tax claims
   leaves the Debtor liable for the deficiency after he or she emerges
   from bankruptcy. And it may have resulted in a windfall for other
   creditors.

   When the tax claim is an "estimated" claim only because no return was
   filed, the burden must be placed on the Debtor to take steps to avoid
   prejudice to other creditors (and the Debtor may wish to take steps to
   protect himself or herself as well.)

   At the least, the Debtor shall within 30 days of service of a copy of
   an "estimated" tax claim that is "estimated" because of non-filing of
   returns, object to such claim under Rule 3007 Fed.R.Bankr.P. even if
   the Debtor does not disagree with the amount. A copy of the proposed
   return or other evidence of the amount of the liability shall accompany
   the objection. If the Debtor is not served with a copy of the
   "estimated claim", then the objection must be filed within 30 days
   after the closing of the 180 day opportunity for the filing of tax
   claims under § 502.

   At the hearing on the objection the Debtor shall appear and shall be
   prepared to tender the tax return thereat or to provide evidence to the
   Court as to a proper "estimate" of the tax claim, whether higher,
   lower, or the same as that filed by the taxing entity.

   The Court will thus "estimate" the claim for the purpose of allowance
   but will not at that hearing determine the Debtor's tax liability under
   § 505 or the applicable tax laws. The duty to file a return and the
   risk of additional liability remains at all times on the Debtor, and
   any discharge shall not discharge the unpaid balance of any actual tax
   liability, interest or penalties. Determination of tax liability under
   § 505 requires an Adversary Proceeding.

   If the objection required by this rule is not made, the case may on
   motion on notice to the Debtor and counsel be converted or dismissed,
   as to the Court appears proper.

   The taxing entities may assert other remedies, such as objections to
   confirmation of a plan. If a plan is confirmed "pending" the estimation
   of the tax claims as above, then confirmation shall be without
   prejudice to any objections properly arising out of the hearing on the
   claim, such as (but not limited to) objections based on feasibility,
   projected disposable income, or lack of good faith.

   Rule 7004. SERVICE OF PROCESS

   7004-1. SERVICE UPON THE UNITED STATES IN CONTESTED MATTERS [Former
   Rule 16]

   A. Rule 9014 Fed.R.Bankr.P. requires that a motion be served "in the
   manner provided for service of a summons and complaint by Rule 7004
   Fed.R.Bankr.P." of those Rules. Rule 7004(a) Fed.R.Bankr.P. [by
   incorporating Rule 4(d) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and
   Rule 7004(b)(4), (5)] require:

   1. that the United States be served whenever an officer or agency of
   the United States is served; and

   2. that service upon the United States is obtained by serving the
   United States Attorney for the District in which the action is brought,
   together with mailing a copy of the process to the Attorney General of
   the United States at Washington, D.C.

   Rule 7016. PRE-TRIAL PROCEDURES

   7016-1. PRE-TRIAL CONFERENCES IN ADVERSARY PROCEEDINGS [Former Rule 27]

   A. At the pre-trial conference required by Rule 7016 Fed.R.Bankr.P.,
   counsel shall be prepared to report on the following matters:

   (1) status of the pleadings and joinder of other parties or actions;

   (2) anticipated discovery proceedings and the time required for the
   completion thereof;

   (3) unusual problems of law or fact which may arise;

   (4) anticipated motions;

   (5) narrowing of the issues and stipulation as to matters which avoid
   unnecessary proof;

   (6) the time when the case will be ready for trial;

   (7) such other matters as may aid in disposition of the case.

   B. Upon the completion of the conference, an order will be entered by
   the Bankruptcy Court setting the time within which all pre-trial
   motions and discovery are to be completed and imposing such additional
   requirements as may be appropriate. Thereafter, further discovery shall
   not be permitted except by leave of the Court for good cause shown.

   7016-2. AUTHORITY OF CLERK [Former Rule 28] [SO 5/7/84]

   The authority of this Court to set pre-trial conferences in adversary
   proceedings and other disputed matters is hereby delegated
   non-exclusively to the Clerk, who shall, in directing litigants to
   appear thereat, give them notice that such direction is by order of the
   Court and that the Court may impose sanctions, including a default
   judgment for failure to appear.

   Rule 7024. UNCONSTITUTIONALITY, CLAIM OF

   7024-2. NOTICE OF CLAIM OF UNCONSTITUTIONALITY [Former Rule 23]

   If at any time prior to the trial of any adversary proceeding or
   contested matter, to which neither the United States, an individual
   state, nor any agency, officer or employee of either is a party, a
   party draws in question the constitutionality of an Act of Congress or
   a state statute affecting the public interest, the party shall, in
   writing, notify the Bankruptcy Court of the existence of such question
   and specifically identify the statute and the respects in which it is
   claimed to be unconstitutional. See, 28 U.S.C. § 2403(a) and (b).

   7026-1. COOPERATION OF COUNSEL [Former Rule 29]

   No motion for discovery and production of documents under Rules 7026
   through 7037 Fed.R.Bankr.P. shall be heard unless and until moving
   counsel certify that they have attempted to resolve the discovery
   dispute on their own.

   Rule 7040. ASSIGNMENT OF ADVERSARY PROCEEDINGS [Former Rule 10 C]

   7040-1. The assignment of the bankruptcy case to a Judge includes,
   subject to LBR 1073-1(B) herein, the assignment of adversary
   proceedings and contested matters arising int he case.

   Rule 7054. COSTS -TAXATION/PAYMENT

   7054-1. COSTS IN THE BANKRUPTCY CASE [Former Rule 34]

   A. A party entitled to recover costs shall file with the Bankruptcy
   Clerk, upon forms provided by the Clerk, a verified bill of costs. The
   date on which the parties will appear before the Clerk for taxation of
   the costs and proof of service of a copy upon the party liable for the
   costs shall be endorsed thereon. The Clerk's action may be reviewed by
   the Court if a motion to retax the costs is filed within five (5) days
   after the costs are taxed.

   B. Standards for Taxing Costs

   (1) The Clerk's filing fee is allowable if paid by the claimant.

   (2) Fees of the marshal as set forth in 28 U.S.C. § 1921 are allowable
   to the extent actually incurred. Fees for service of process by someone
   other than the marshal are allowable to the extent that they do not
   exceed those permitted by 28 U.S.C. §1921.

   (3) Reporters' transcripts:

   (a) The cost of transcripts necessarily obtained for an appeal are
   allowable.

   (b) The cost of a transcript of a statement by a Judge from the bench
   which is to be reduced to a formal order prepared by counsel is
   allowable.

   (c) The cost of other transcripts is not normally allowable unless,
   before it is incurred, it is approved by a Judge or stipulated to be
   recoverable by counsel.

   (4) Depositions:

   (a) The cost of an original and one copy of any deposition used for any
   purpose in connection with the case is allowable.

   (b) The expenses of counsel in attending depositions are not allowable.

   (c) The cost of reproducing exhibits to depositions is allowable where
   the cost of the deposition is allowable.

   (d) Notary fees incurred in connection with taking depositions are
   allowable.

   (e) The attendance fee of a reporter when a witness fails to appear is
   allowable if the claimant made use of available process to compel the
   attendance of the witness.

   (5) Reproduction and Exemplification:

   (a) The cost of reproducing and certifying or exemplifying government
   records for use in the case is allowable.

   (b) The cost of reproducing documents used for any purpose in
   connection with the trial is allowable.

   (c) The cost of reproducing copies of motions, pleadings, notices and
   other routine case papers is not allowable.

   (d) The cost of reproducing trial exhibits is allowable to the extent
   that a Judge requires copies to be provided.

   (e) The cost of preparing charts, diagrams and other visual aids to be
   used as exhibits is allowable if such exhibits are reasonably necessary
   to assist the jury or the Court in understanding the issues at the
   trial.

   (f) The cost of reproducing the required number of copies of the
   Clerk's record on appeal is allowable.

   (6) Witness Expenses. Per diem, subsistence and mileage payments for
   witnesses are allowable to the extent reasonably necessary. No other
   witness expenses, including fees for expert witnesses, are allowable.

   (7) Such other costs, not heretofore provided for, authorized under
   Rule 39, Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure, are allowable.

   (8) Premiums on undertaking bonds and costs of providing security
   required by law, by order of a Judge, or otherwise necessarily incurred
   are allowable.

   (9) The certificate of counsel required by 28 U.S.C. § 1924 shall be
   prima facie evidence of the facts recited therein. The burden is on the
   opposing party to establish that a claim is incorrectly stated,
   unnecessary or unreasonable.

   Rule 7055. DEFAULT - FAILURE TO PROSECUTE [Former Rule 33] [SO 12/5/83;
   SO 4/19/84]

   7055-1. PROCEDURE FOR GRANTING OF DEFAULT JUDGMENTS

   Before seeking default judgment, plaintiff's attorney should make
   certain that he or she has (1) properly and timely served the
   defendant, and (2) filed an accurate certificate of service. Then, once
   the time to answer has expired, he or she may seek entry of default
   judgment, following the procedures described below.

   When the underlying action is a core matter

   The Clerk of the Bankruptcy Court may enter the default judgment if:

   A. the underlying action is a core matter; and

   B. the default judgment is for a sum certain.

   In order to obtain a default judgment, in this circumstance, the
   attorney for the plaintiff is to file (1) an application for default
   judgment addressed to the Clerk of Court; (2) a certificate of default;
   (3) a request for judgment by default and affidavit of amount due; and
   (4) an affidavit of non-military service.

   When the underlying action is a non-core matter

   A. The Bankruptcy Judge to whom the matter has been assigned may
   execute a recommendation that default judgment be entered, without
   requiring a hearing, if the judgment is for a sum certain. When it is a
   non-core matter at issue, final judgment - even default judgment - must
   be entered in the District Court.

   In order to obtain such a recommendation, the plaintiff's attorney is
   to file: (1) a recommendation for default judgment addressed to the
   Bankruptcy Judge; (2) an affidavit of non-military service; (3) an
   order to transmit record in a non-core proceeding to District Court,
   combined with findings of fact, conclusions of law and recommendation
   regarding plaintiff's request for entry of default judgment; (4) an
   affidavit of amount due; and (5) judgment (for execution by a U.S.
   District Judge).

   B. When the Bankruptcy Judge, on the basis of the submitted
   recommendation for default judgment, determines that a hearing is
   necessary, the Clerk will inform the parties of the date of that
   hearing. (For example, if the defendant appeared, but did not answer,
   the defendant has a right to be heard on the question of the amount of
   damages.) After that hearing, the plaintiff's attorney is to submit a
   revised order to transmit, a revised affidavit of amount due, and a
   judgment (for execution by the U.S. District Judge).

   Appropriate sample forms are available from the Bankruptcy Court Clerk.

   The Clerk of Court shall enter the fact of default in an adversary
   proceeding only when requested to do so by the nondefaulting party.
   Upon entry of the fact of default under Fed.R.Civ.P. Rule 55(a), the
   nondefaulting party may seek judgment by default from the Clerk or the
   Court as appropriate under Fed.R.Civ.P. Rule 55(b), (d), and (e). Where
   relief has been sought against multiple parties not all of whom have
   failed to plead or defend, the fact of default may be entered as to any
   party who failed to plead or defend, but no judgment by default shall
   be entered against such party until the case shall have been decided
   with respect to the nondefaulting parties, unless the Court orders
   otherwise. A plaintiff entitled to a default for the failure to answer
   a complaint must request entry of the fact of default, and make
   suitable request for judgment, within 60 days after the last day to
   answer. Failure to make these requests will result in the entry of an
   order placing the proceeding on a calendar for a hearing on the
   question of why the complaint should not be dismissed for want of
   prosecution.

   Rule 7069. JUDGMENT, PAYMENT OF [Former Rules 35 & 36 (RESERVED)] [GO
   1/3/84]

   7069-1. INTEREST ON JUDGMENTS. Interest on Judgments entered in the
   United States Bankruptcy Court for the Western District of New York
   shall be based on the rate applicable in the Federal District Court,
   pursuant to Title 28 U.S.C. § 1961.

   SATISFACTION OF JUDGMENTS. [RESERVED]

   Rule 8008. APPEALS

   8008-1. FILING PAPERS - APPEAL [Former Rule 14 F]

   Upon filing a notice of appeal, the appellant shall furnish the Clerk
   with a sufficient number of copies thereof for mailing.

   Rule 9004. PAPERS

   9004-1. FORM OF PAPERS [Former Rule 13 A]

   All pleadings and other papers shall be plainly and legibly written,
   preferably typewritten, printed or reproduced; shall be without
   erasures or interlineations materially defacing them; shall be in ink
   or its equivalent on durable, white paper of good quality; and, except
   for exhibits, shall be on letter size paper, and fastened in durable
   covers.

   9004-2. CAPTION [Former Rule 13 B]

   All pleadings and other papers shall be captioned with the name of the
   Court, the title of the case, the proper docket number or numbers,
   including the initial at the end of the number indicating the Judge to
   whom the matter has been assigned, and a description of their nature.
   All pleadings and other papers, unless excepted under Rule 9011
   Fed.R.Bankr.P., shall be dated, signed and have thereon the name,
   address and telephone number of each attorney, or if no attorney, then
   the litigant appearing.

   9004-3. Papers not conforming with this rule generally shall be
   received by the Bankruptcy Clerk, but the effectiveness of any such
   papers shall be subject to determination of the Court. [Former Rule 13
   D]

   Rule 9006. TIME PERIODS [Former Rule 14D]

   9006-1. REDUCTION. If a party wishes to shorten the notice requirements
   prescribed by Rule 9013 Fed.R.Bankr.P., the party must make written
   application to the appropriate Judge for an expedited hearing.

   Rule 9010. ATTORNEYS - NOTICE OF APPEARANCE

   9010-1. STUDENT LAW CLERKS [Former Rule 6]

   A. An eligible law student may, with the approval of his or her law
   school dean or a member of the law school faculty and of a Bankruptcy
   Judge of the Western District of New York, serve as a part-time student
   law clerk to that Bankruptcy Judge.

   B. In order to so serve, the law student shall:

   (1) be duly enrolled in a law school approved by the American Bar
   Association;

   (2) have completed legal studies amounting to at least two semesters or
   the equivalent;

   (3) be enrolled in a course or program at his or her law school
   offering academic credit for serving as a part-time law clerk to a
   Judge or be certified by the dean of his or her law school for
   non-credit clinical experience;

   (4) be supervised by a member of a law school faculty. This faculty
   advisor shall, to the extent possible, review all aspects of the
   student's work before it is submitted to the Judge;

   (5) be certified by the dean or a faculty member of his or her law
   school as being of good character and competent legal ability. This
   certification may be withdrawn by the certifier at any time by mailing
   a notice to the Judge supervising the student. Termination of
   certification by the certifier shall not reflect on a student's
   character or ability unless otherwise specified. A copy of such
   certification and decertification shall be filed with the Clerk of the
   Court;

   (6) neither be entitled to ask for not receive compensation of any kind
   from the Court or anyone in connection with service as a part-time law
   clerk to a Judge;

   (7) certify in writing, which certification shall be filed with the
   Clerk of the Bankruptcy Court, that he or she:

   (a) has read and is familiar with and will comply with the Code of
   Professional Responsibility, and relevant provisions of the Code of
   Judicial Conduct for United States Judges, and

   (b) will abstain from revealing any information and making any comment
   at any time, except to his or her faculty advisor or to the Court
   personnel as specifically permitted by the Judge to whom he or she is
   assigned, concerning any proceeding pending or impending in this Court
   while he or she is serving as a part-time clerk.

   C. A Judge supervising a part-time clerk may terminate or limit the
   clerk's duties at any time without notice or hearing and without
   showing of cause. Such termination or limitation shall not be
   considered a reflection on the character or ability of the part-time
   clerk unless otherwise specified.

   D. An attorney in a pending proceeding may at any time request that a
   part-time clerk not be permitted to work on or have access to
   information concerning that proceeding and, on a showing that such
   restriction is necessary, a Judge shall take appropriate steps to
   restrict the clerk's contact with the proceeding.

   E. For the purpose of Canons 3-A(4) and 3-A(6) of the Code of Judicial
   Conduct for United States Judges, a part-time law clerk is deemed to be
   a member of the Court's personnel.

   F. Forms for designating compliance with the rule are available in the
   Clerk's office.

   9010-2. STUDENT PRACTICE [Former Rule 7]

   A. An eligible law student, with the Court's approval, under
   supervision of an attorney, may appear on behalf of any person,
   including the United States Attorney, who has consented in writing.

   B. The attorney who supervises a student shall:

   (1) be admitted to bankruptcy practice in the United States District
   and Bankruptcy Courts for the Western District of New York;

   (2) assume personal professional responsibility for the student's work;

   (3) assist the student to the extent necessary;

   (4) appear with the student in all proceedings before the Court;

   (5) indicate in writing his or her consent to supervise the student.

   C. In order to appear, the student shall:

   (1) be duly enrolled in a law school approved by the American Bar
   Association;

   (2) have completed legal studies amounting to at least two semesters or
   the equivalent;

   (3) be certified by either the dean or a faculty member of his or her
   law school as qualified to provide the legal representation permitted
   by these rules. This certification may be withdrawn by the certifier at
   any time by mailing a notice to the Clerk or by termination by the
   Judge presiding in the case in which the student appears without notice
   or hearing and without showing of cause. The loss of certification by
   action of a Judge shall not be considered a reflection on the character
   or ability of the student;

   (4) be introduced to the Court by an attorney admitted to bankruptcy
   practice before the Court;

   (5) neither ask for nor receive any compensation or remuneration of any
   kind for his or her services from the person on whose behalf he or she
   renders services, but this shall not prevent an attorney, legal aid
   bureau, law school, a state or the United States from paying
   compensation to the eligible law student, nor shall it prevent any
   agency from making proper charges for its services;

   (6) certify in writing that he or she is familiar with and will comply
   with the Code of Professional Responsibility of the American Bar
   Association;

   (7) certify in writing that he or she is familiar with the procedural
   and evidentiary rules relevant to the action in which he or she is
   appearing.

   D. The law student, supervised in accordance with these rules, may:

   (1) appear as counsel in Court or at other proceeding when written
   consent of the client (on the form available in the Clerk's Office) or
   of the United States Attorney, when the client is the United States,
   and the supervising attorney have been filed, and when the Court has
   approved the student's request to appear in the particular case to the
   extent that the Judge presiding at the hearing or trial permits;

   (2) prepare and sign motions, petitions, answers, briefs, and other
   documents in connection with any matter in which he or she had met the
   conditions of "1" above; each such document also shall be signed by the
   supervising attorney.

   E. Forms for designating compliance with this rule shall be available
   in the Bankruptcy Court Clerk's Office. Completed forms shall be filed
   with the Bankruptcy Clerk.

   F. Participation by students under the rule shall not be deemed a
   violation in connection with the rules for admission to the bar of any
   jurisdiction concerning practice of law before admission to that bar.

   Rule 9013. MOTIONS: FORM AND SERVICE [Former Rule 14 A & C] [SO 8/4/93;
   SO 8/5/92; SO 3/9/93, SO 3/9/93, SO 4/13/93; SO 7/25/94; SO 7/26/95]

   9013-1. A. All pleadings, notices and other papers shall be served and
   filed in accordance with the Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure and
   these Local Rules.

   B. Except as otherwise provided by rule or ordered by the Court,
   notices of motion along with supporting affidavits and memoranda shall
   be served on the parties and filed with the Bankruptcy Clerk at least
   five (5) days prior to the return date of the motion [eight (8) days if
   served by mail]. Motion dates may be obtained from the Clerk.
   Discretionary responses to motions (those not required by order) shall
   be filed and served upon the adverse party or parties as soon as
   practicable.

   C. Rochester and Watkins Glen motions filed pursuant to, including but
   not limited to §362, §554, §522(f), §722 and §1229 and §1339
   Modification motions may be granted by the Court by default without a
   hearing. Sample forms and guidelines designed to comply with this
   procedure are available in the Bankruptcy Court Clerk's Office.

   Rule 9014. CONTESTED MATTERS

   9014-1. OBJECTIONS TO TRUSTEE'S FINAL REPORT AND ACCOUNT IN A CHAPTER 7
   CASE [Former Rule 37; Former Rule 13C]

   A. Parties to whom a summary of the trustee's final report and account
   have been sent in a chapter 7 case pursuant to Rule 2002(f)(9)
   Fed.R.Bankr.P. may object to the final report and account by written
   objection filed with the Bankruptcy Clerk and served on the Office of
   the United States Trustee within fifteen (15) days of the date of the
   summary so sent. Unless the Court orders otherwise, no trustee shall
   distribute dividends unless and until said fifteen (15) days have
   elapsed without the filing of an objection.

   An objection to the trustee's final report and account is a contested
   matter governed by Rule 9014 Fed.R.Bankr.P.

   If the summary of the final report and account is coupled with a notice
   of a hearing on allowances, an objection to the allowances sought may
   be made at or before the hearing. The party objecting shall serve a
   copy of the objection upon or give notice of an intention to object to
   the Office of the United States Trustee.

   B. Responses to written questions or demands, including answers to
   interrogatories, depositions upon written questions, letters
   interrogatory or a notice demanding admissions, shall set forth each
   question or demand verbatim with the party's response set forth
   immediately thereafter. Objections to interrogatories should set forth
   the question, the answer and the objection thereto. Objections to
   responses to interrogatories should set forth the question, the answer,
   and the objection thereto.

   C. An objection to a trustee's final report and account is a contested
   matter governed by Rule 9014 Fed.R.Bankr.P. Parties to whom a summary
   of the trustee's final report and account have been sent in a chapter 7
   case pursuant to Rule 2002(f)(9) Fed.R.Bankr.P. may object to the final
   report and account by written objection filed with the Bankruptcy Clerk
   and served on the Office of the United States Trustee within fifteen
   (15) days of the date of the summary so sent. Unless the Court orders
   otherwise, no trustee shall distribute dividends unless and until said
   fifteen (15) days have elapsed without the filing of an objection.

   If the summary of the final report and account is coupled with a notice
   of a hearing on allowances, an objection to the allowances sought may
   be made at or before the hearing. The party objecting shall serve a
   copy of the objection upon or give notice of an intention to object to
   the Office of the United States Trustee.

   Rule 9015. JURY TRIALS [Former Rule 31]

   A. APPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN FEDERAL RULES OF CIVIL PROCEDURE:

   RULES 38, 39 AND 47-51 Fed.R.Civ.P. and Rule 81(c) Fed.R.Civ.P. insofar
   as it applies to jury trials, apply in cases and proceedings, except
   that a demand made under Rule 38(b) Fed.R.Civ.P. shall be filed in
   accordance with Rule 5005 Fed.R.Bankr.P.

   B. CONSENT TO HAVE TRIAL CONDUCTED BY BANKRUPTCY JUDGE:

   If the right to a jury trial applies, a timely demand has been filed
   under Rule 38(b) Fed.R.Civ.P., and the Bankruptcy Judge has been
   specially designated to conduct the jury trial, the parties may consent
   to have a jury trial conducted by a Bankruptcy Judge under 38 USC §
   157(e) by jointly or separately filing a statement of consent.

   Rule 9022. JUDGMENTS AND ORDERS, NOTICE OF [Former Rule 14 E]

   9022-1. NUMBER OF COPIES. All orders and judgments shall be filed in
   duplicate by the party who secures them if such party desires a
   conformed copy be returned to them. The copies will be placed at the
   intake counter for pickup unless accompanied by a postage-paid,
   self-addressed envelope. Such party also shall furnish the Clerk with a
   sufficient number of additional copies thereof for mailing with the
   notice of entry, whenever notice of entry is required. All orders,
   whether made on notice or ex parte, together with the papers on which
   they were granted, shall be filed forthwith or within the time
   otherwise permitted by law.

   Rule 9024. RELIEF FROM JUDGMENT OR ORDER [GO 9/14/88]

   General reference regarding proceedings to set aside judgments of the
   District Court in "Non-Core" Bankruptcy Proceedings under 28 U.S.C. §
   157 is covered in the General Order regarding same entered in the U.S.
   District Court on September 14, 1988.

   Rule 9070. EXHIBITS [Former Rule 30 A thru C]

   9070-1. A. In an adversary proceeding or a contested matter, the
   exhibits shall be marked by counsel or the parties prior to trial or
   hearing.

   B. Unless the Bankruptcy Court otherwise directs, exhibits (except
   those produced by non-parties) shall not be filed with the Bankruptcy
   Court Clerk but shall be retained in the custody of the respective
   attorneys or persons who produce them in Court. Upon submission to the
   trier of fact, all exhibits which were received into evidence shall be
   delivered to the Court. Following decision or verdict, exhibits will be
   returned to the parties. In the case of an appeal or other review by an
   appellate Court, all exhibits necessary to perfect the appeal shall be
   made available for inclusion in the record on appeal.

   C. Exhibits produced by non-parties may be held by the Clerk or a party
   as the Court may direct. Whenever practicable, copies of such exhibits
   shall be substituted for originals. Upon expiration of the time allowed
   for appeal, or following an appeal, any originals retained by the Court
   or a party shall be returned to non parties.

   Rule 9071. STIPULATIONS [Former Rule 32]

   9071-1. A. Stipulations. All stipulations affecting an adversary
   proceeding before this Court, except stipulations which are made in
   open Court and recorded by the court reporter, shall be in writing and
   signed, and shall be filed. Except to prevent injustice, no stipulation
   which does not satisfy these requirements shall be given in effect.

   B. Settlements. When an adversary proceeding is settled, the parties
   shall file within thirty (30) days a signed agreement for judgment or
   stipulation for dismissal as appropriate. If no such agreement is
   filed, the Court may enter an order dismissing the adversary proceeding
   as settled, with prejudice and without costs.

      CONVERSION TABLE OF FORMER BANKRUPTCY RULES, STANDING ORDERS, AND

        GENERAL ORDERS TO CURRENT LOCAL RULES OF BANKRUPTCY PROCEDURE

   Former Local Bankruptcy Rule, General and/or Standing Order New Local
   Bankruptcy Rule
   1. Rule 1 LBR 1001-1
   2. Rule 2 LBR 2090-1
   3. Rule 3 LBR 2090-1
   4. Rule 4 LBR 2090-1
   5. Rule 5 LBR 2014-1; 2014-2; 2014-3
   6. Rule 6 LBR 9010-1
   7. Rule 7 LBR 9010-2
   8. Rule 8 LBR 1072-1
   9. Rule 9 LBR 5073-1
   10. Rule 10 LBR l014-1; 1072-2; 1073-1; 1073-2; 7040-1
   11. Rule 11 LBR 1007-1
   12. Rule 12 ABROGATED
   13. Rule 13 LBR 9004-1; 9004-2; 9004-3; 9014-1
   14. Rule 14 LBR 2002; 8008-1; 9006; 9013-1; 9022-1
   15. Rule 15 LBR 2020-1; 2020-2
   16. Rule 16 LBR 7004-1
   17. Rule 17 LBR 1015-1
   18. Rule 18 LBR 1007-2 2007-1; 2015-1; 2015-2; 2015-4; 2015-5; 4001-2
   19. Rule 19 LBR 2081
   20. Rule 20 LBR 1019
   21. Rule 21 LBR 1019
   22. Rule 22 LBR 5080-1; 5081-1
   23. Rule 23 LBR 7024-2
   24. Rule 24 LBR 4001-2
   25. Rule 25 LBR 6004-1; 6007-1
   26. Rule 26 LBR 6004-1
   27. Rule 27 LBR 7016-1
   28. Rule 28 LBR 7016-2
   29. Rule 29 LBR 7026-1
   30. Rule 30 LBR 9070-1
   31. Rule 31 LBR 9015-1
   32. Rule 32 LBR 9071
   33. Rule 33 LBR 7055-1
   34. Rule 34 LBR 7054-1
   35. Rule 35 LBR 7069-1
   36. Rule 36 LBR 7069-1
   37. Rule 37 LBR 9014-1
   38. Rule 38 LBR 2016-1
   39. Rule 39 LBR 2016-2
   40. Rule 40 LBR 2007-1
   41. Rule 41 LBR 1020-1
   42. Rule 42 LBR 6070
   43. Standing Order 8/4/83; Motions Under 11 U.S.C. §362(d) Seeking
   Relief from an Automatic Stay LB
