http://cords.loc.gov/cords/homebody.shtml

    Copyright Office Electronic Registration, Recordation and Deposit System

   The U.S. Copyright Office, the Library of Congress and the Corporation
   for National Research Initiatives (CNRI) have been cooperating on the
   development of the testbed Copyright Office Electronic Registration,
   Recordation and Deposit System (CORDS). CNRI is developing this testbed
   system under contract with the Defense Advance Research Projects Agency
   (DARPA) and the Library of Congress.

   The goal of the CORDS project is to develop and test a system for
   copyright registration and recordation with copyright applications,
   copies of works, and copyright related documents transmitted in digital
   form over communications networks such as the Internet.

   The Electronic Registration and Recordation System enables copyright
   applicants to prepare their copyright applications and deposit
   materials in machine readable formats, to sign their submissions
   digitally using public key encryption technology, and to send
   applications, deposits and documents to the Copyright Office via the
   Internet, using MIME Object Security Services (MOSS). This system will
   enable the Copyright Office to:
    1. Receive digital submissions from the Internet,
    2. verify that each one is authentic and complete,
    3. debit fees from the applicant's deposit account with the Copyright
       Office,
    4. create an electronic tracking record,
    5. acknowledge receipt of the application or document,
    6. provide for online processing of applications, deposits, and
       documents by examiners and catalogers, and
    7. notify applicants electronically that the registration has been
       completed.

   The Copyright Office has additional general information about CORDS.

Software required on your system

   Currently, only CORDS testbed participants may submit electronic
   copyright registration applications to the Copyright Office.

   The following two software packages must be installed on your PC or
   workstation before you can submit copyright applications:
    1. Netscape Navigator 2.x or 3.x. (The beta version of Netscape
       Communicator should work, but we have not tested it.)
    2. The CORDS Helper application is used to bind a copyright
       registration application and an associated deposit and submit the
       package to the Copyright Office.

Fees: Deposit Account Required

   Before an applicant can submit electronic registrations through CORDS,
   a deposit account must be established with the Copyright Office;
   registration fees are debited from this account. Currently the
   application and check for opening a deposit account cannot be sent
   electronically, but must be sent through the regular postal mail. Any
   subsequent checks to replenish the deposit account must also be sent by
   postal mail, not electronically. Circular 5 describes the steps
   required to open and maintain a deposit account in the Copyright
   Office.

   The fee for registration via CORDS is currently $30.00 per submission.
   Slip letter SL4 outlines recent changes to certain Copyright Office
   fees, and Circular 4 gives other specific information about fees.

Submitting an Application

   Currently, test members may register non-dramatic literary works. This
   includes a wide variety of works: fiction, nonfiction, poetry,
   textbooks, reference works, directories, catalogs, serials,
   periodicals, advertising copy, compilations of information, and
   computer programs. Test members may also register issues of serials and
   works of the visual arts.

   If you are a member of one of the test groups, you may select one of
   the following methods to submit a copyright registration application.
   Do NOT use the electronic forms to submit a claim via postal mail.
   Forms suitable for postal submissions are available from the Copyright
   Office.
    1. Form TX is the standard "text" form.
    2. Short Form TX is a shorter form that may be used in place of Form
       TX if:
         1. You are the only author and copyright owner of this work; and
         2. the work was not made for hire, and
         3. the work is completely new (does not contain a substantial
            amount of material that has been previously published or
            registered or is in the public domain); and
         4. the author wishes to reveal his or her identity (i.e. is not
            an anonymous author.)
    3. Form SE is the standard form for use in registering copyright on
       issues of serials.
    4. Short Form SE: This is a shorter form that may be used to in place
       of Form SE if:
         1. The claim is in a collective work, and
         2. The work is essentially an all-new collective work or issue,
            and
         3. The author is a citizen or domiciliary of the United States,
            and
         4. The work is a work made for hire (with the Employer considered
            the Author), and
         5. The Author is the same person or organization as the Claimant,
            and
         6. The work is first published in the United States.
    5. Form VA is the standard form for use in registering copyright on
       works of the visual arts.
    6. Short Form VA: This is a shorter form that may be used to in place
       of Form VA if:
         1. You are the only author and copyright owner of this work; and
         2. the work was not made for hire, and
         3. the work is completely new (does not contain a substantial
            amount of material that has been previously published or
            registered or is in the public domain); and
         4. You are not an anonymous author who does not wish to reveal
            your identity.
    7. Form PA is the standard form for use in registering copyright on
       works of the performing arts.
    8. Short Form PA: This is a shorter form that may be used to in place
       of Form PA if:
         1. You are the only author and copyright owner of this work; and
         2. the work was not made for hire, and
         3. the work is completely new (does not contain a substantial
            amount of material that has been previously published or
            registered or is in the public domain); and
         4. You are not an anonymous author who does not wish to reveal
            your identity.
    9. Form SR is the standard form for use in registering copyright on
       sound recordings.

Deposit to Accompany Application

   An application for copyright registration must be accompanied by a
   "deposit copy" representing the entire work being registered. The
   deposit copy can be submitted

     * in digitally-signed electronic form, with the application, or
     * in "physical" ("hard-copy") form via U.S. Mail or other delivery
       method (FUTURE).

   If the deposit is submitted in digitally-signed electronic form, it
   must consis of a single file and must be in one of the file formats
   currently accepted by CORDS: ASCII (plain text), PDF, or HTML.

   The deposit requirements vary for particular types of works as
   described below.

    Computer Programs

   For a computer program, the deposit should be the first 25 and last 25
   pages or equivalent units of the source code. If the claim is in a
   revised computer program, click HERE.

   In any case where the program is so structured that it has no
   identifiable beginning or end, the applicant should make a
   determination as to which pages may reasonably represent the "first 25"
   and "last 25" pages.

   In all cases, the portion of the program displaying the copyright
   notice, if any, should be included in the deposit.

   If the program contains trade secrets or other confidential material,
   click HERE.

    Other Categories

   Currently, only textual works (with graphics) and computer programs are
   accepted in CORDS. As CORDS expands, these instructions will include
   deposit information for additional types of material.

      Equivalent units

   For a program that is not represented by "pages," the Office leaves the
   determination of what is an "equivalent unit" to the applicant. As a
   rule of thumb, 40 lines of code may be considered equal to a page.
   Thus, the first 1000 and last 1000 lines of code would be an acceptable
   deposit.

      Source Code

   The source code for a particular program is the code as actually
   written by the author in a particular programming language. Source code
   is distinguished from object code, which is generally the code
   translated from the original programming language and compiled by a
   computer into a machine-readable hexadecimal (octal, or binary)
   representation.

      Revised Computer Programs

   For a revised computer program where the revisions occur throughout the
   entire program, the first 25 and last 25 pages will suffice. If the
   revisions do not occur in the first 25 and last 25 pages, the deposit
   should consist of any 50 pages representative of the revised material.
   The deposit should include the portion that contains the copyright
   notice, if any.

      Trade Secret/Confidential Material

   Where a program contains trade secret or other confidential material,
   the deposit may consist of
    1. the first 10 and last 10 pages of the source code;
    2. the first 25 and last 25 pages of object code with a 10-page
       consecutive segment of source code from any part of the program; or
    3. the first 25 and last 25 pages of source code with the portions
       containing trade secrets or confidential material blocked out.

   In the case of a revised program where the revisions are not contained
   in the first 25 and last 25 pages, the deposit may consist of either 20
   pages of source code representative of the revised material or 50 pages
   of source code representative of the revised material with trade secret
   or confidential material blocked out. In any deposit option where
   portions of the code are blocked out, the blocked-out portions must be
   proportionately less than the material remaining.

   Two methods are recommended for "blocking out" or deleting material.
   Deleted characters may be replaced with "XXXXX"s or blank spaces.
   Alternatively, characters and the lines on which they appear may be
   completely deleted, with a statement inserted where each deletion is
   made stating ".... lines (characters) of code deleted because of trade
   secret or confidential material." This statement highlights the
   location and amount of material deleted when a larger segment of text
   is involved.

   If the proposed methods of signaling the deletion of trade
   secret/confidential material pose a hardship, applicants may propose
   other methods for consideration by the Examining Division.

      Object code

   Object code is the program as compiled from its original language into
   a hexadecimal (octal, binary) representation. An object code deposit
   would normally be the first 25 and last 25 pages of a listing or "dump"
   of the string of alpha-numeric hexadecimal (or numeric octal or binary)
   code, i.e., the program in its compiled form.

   Registration will be made for a computer program on the basis of an
   object code deposit alone, provided that the applicant states in
   writing that the work as deposited contains copyrightable authorship.
   (The statement may appear at the end of the application in the "Note to
   Examiner" field.) Such registrations are made under the Office's rule
   of doubt since the Office cannot determine with certainty the presence
   of copyrightable authorship.

The Copyright Notice

   For works first published on or after March 1, 1989, the law provides
   that a copyright notice in a specified form "may be placed on all
   publicly distributed copies from which the work can be visually
   perceived." Use of the copyright notice is the responsibility of the
   copyright owner and does not require advance permission from the
   Copyright Office. The required form of the notice for copies generally
   consists of three elements: (1) the symbol (circle c) or the word
   "Copyright," or the abbreviation "Copr."; (2) the year of first
   publication; and (3) the name of the owner of copyright. The notice is
   to be affixed to the copies "in such manner and location as to give
   reasonable notice of the claim of copyright." Works first published
   prior to March 1, 1989 must carry the notice or risk loss of copyright
   protection.

   For information about notice requirements for works published before
   March 1, 1989, or other copyright information, write: Information
   Section, LM-401, Copyright Office, Library of Congress, Washington, DC
   20559.
