http://www.cpc.ncep.noaa.gov/information/who_we_are/


   Climate Prediction Center Banner

     Skip Navigation Links



                             HOME
                             Welcome
                             The Operations Branch
                             The Analysis Branch
                             Staff Directory

                                  Who We Are


     The Climate Prediction Center's (CPC) products are operational
     predictions of climate variability, real-time monitoring of climate
     and the required data bases, and assessments of the origins of major
     climate anomalies. The products cover time scales from a week to
     seasons, extending into the future as far as technically feasible,
     and cover the land, the ocean, and the atmosphere, extending into
     the stratosphere.

     These climate services are available for users in government, the
     public and private industry, both in this country and abroad.
     Applications include the mitigation of weather related natural
     disasters and uses for social and economic good in agriculture,
     energy, transportation, water resources, and health. Continual
     product improvements are supported through diagnostic research,
     increasing use of models, and interactions with user groups.

Origins of the Climate Prediction Center

     The roots of modern climate prediction can be traced to the late
     1700's. One of the nation's first applied climatologists was Thomas
     Jefferson, the third President of the United States. A century
     later, the federal government assigned to the Army Signal Corps the
     mission to define the climate of the regions of the country being
     opened for farming.

     In 1890, the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) created
     the Weather Bureau climate and crops services which began publishing
     the Weather and Crops Weekly Bulletin, which the CPC in conjunction
     with the USDA still publishes today.

     In 1970, various federal weather and climate functions were
     consolidated into the National Weather Service (NWS) and placed in a
     new agency called the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
     Administration (NOAA). In the 1980's the National Weather Service
     established the Climate Prediction Center (CPC), known at the time
     as the Climate Analysis Center (CAC). The CPC is best known for its
     United States climate forecasts based on El Niño and La Niña
     conditions in the tropical Pacific.

   Publication of the web team, Climate Prediction Center.
   Last Updated: 11/19/2001
