http://www.delta.ca.gov/act.html

                        DELTA PROTECTION ACT of 1992

   (As amended by SB 1673, Chaptered on 9/17/96.)

   (As amended by SB 1075, Chaptered on 9/18/98.)

   (As amended by SB 750, Chaptered on 9/16/99)

   (As amended by AB 2930, Chaptered on 9/21/2000)

   SECTION 1.Section 21080.22 is added to the Public Resources Code to
   read:

   21080.22. (a) This division does not apply to activities and approvals
   by a local government necessary for the preparation of general plan
   amendments pursuant to Section 29763, except that the approval of
   general plan amendments by the Delta Protection Commission is subject
   to the requirements of this division.

   (b)For purposes of Section 21080.5, a general plan amendment is a plan
   required by the regulatory program of the Delta Protection Commission.

   SEC.2.Division 19.5 (commencing with Section 29700) is added to the
   Public Resources Code, to read:

                 DIVISION 19.5. DELTA PROTECTION ACT OF 1992

                    CHAPTER 1. FINDINGS AND DECLARATIONS

   29700. This division shall be known, and may be cited, as the
   Johnston-Baker-Andal-Boatwright Delta Protection Act of 1992.

   29701. The Legislature finds and declares that the Sacramento-San
   Joaquin Delta is a natural resource of statewide, national, and
   international significance, containing irreplaceable resources, and it
   is the policy of the state to recognize, preserve, and protect those
   resources of the delta for the use and enjoyment of current and future
   generations.

   29702. The Legislature further finds and declares that the basic goals
   of the state for the delta are the following:

   (a) Protect, maintain, and, where possible, enhance and restore the
   overall quality of the delta environment, including, but not limited
   to, agriculture, wildlife habitat, and recreational activities.

   (b) Assure orderly, balanced conservation and development of delta land
   resources.

   (c) Improve flood protection by structural and nonstructural means to
   ensure an increased level of public health and safety.

   29703. The Legislature further finds and declares as follows:

   (a) The delta is an agricultural region of great value to the state and
   nation and the retention and continued cultivation and production of
   fertile peatlands and prime soils are of significant value.

   (b) The agricultural land of the delta, while adding greatly to the
   economy of the state, also provides a significant value as open space
   and habitat for water fowl using the Pacific Flyway, as well as other
   wildlife, and the continued dedication and retention of that delta land
   in agricultural production contributes to the preservation and
   enhancement of open space and habitat values.

   (c) Agricultural lands located within the primary zone should be
   protected from the intrusion of nonagricultural uses.

   29704. The Legislature further finds and declares that the leveed
   islands and tracts of the delta and portions of its uplands are
   floodprone areas of critical statewide significance due to the public
   safety risks and the costs of public emergency responses to floods, and
   that improvement and ongoing maintenance of the levee system is a
   matter of continuing urgency to protect farmlands, population centers,
   the state's water quality, and significant natural resource and habitat
   areas of the delta. The Legislature further finds that improvements and
   continuing maintenance of the levee system will not resolve all flood
   risks and that the delta is inherently a floodprone area wherein the
   most appropriate land uses are agriculture, wildlife habitat, and,
   where specifially provided, recreational activities, and that most of
   the existing levee systems are degraded and in need of restoration,
   improvement, and continuing management.

   29705. The Legislature further finds and declares that the delta's
   wildlife and wildlife habitats, including waterways, vegetated unleveed
   channel islands, wetlands, and riparian forests and vegetation
   corridors, are highly valuable, providing critical wintering habitat
   for waterfowl and other migratory birds using the Pacific Flyway, as
   well as certain plant species, various rare and endangered wildlife
   species of birds, mammals, and fish, and numerous amphibians, reptiles,
   and invertebrates, that these wildlife species and their habitat are
   valuable, unique, and irreplaceable resources of critical statewide
   significance, and that it is the policy of the state to preserve and
   protect these resources and their diversity for the enjoyment of
   current and future generations.

   29706. The Legislature further finds and declares that the resource
   values of the delta have deteriorated, and that further deterioration
   threatens the maintenance and sustainability of the delta's ecology,
   fish and wildlife populations, recreational opportunities, and economic
   productivity.

   29707. The Legislature further finds and declares that there is no
   process by which state and national interests and values can be
   protected and enhanced for the delta, and that, to protect the
   regional, state, and national interests for the long-term agricultural
   productivity, economic vitality, and ecological health of the delta
   resources, it is necessary to provide and implement delta land use
   planning and management by local governments.

   29708. The Legislature further finds and declares that the cities,
   towns, and settlements within the delta are of significant historical,
   cultural, and economic value and that their continued protection is
   important to the economic and cultural vitality of the region.

   29709. The Legislature further finds and declares as follows:

   (a) Regulation of land use and related activities that threaten the
   integrity of the delta's resources can best be advanced through
   comprehensive regional land use planning implemented through reliance
   on local government in its local land use planning procedures and
   enforcement.

   (b) In order to protect regional, state, and national interests in the
   long-term agricultural productivity, economic vitality, and ecological
   health of delta resources, it is important that there be a coordination
   and integration of activities by the various agencies whose land use
   activities and decisions cumulatively impact the delta.

   29710. The Legislature further finds and declares that agricultural,
   recreational, and other uses of the delta can best be protected by
   implementing projects that protect wildlife habitat before conflicts
   arise.

   29711. The Legislature further finds and declares that the inland ports
   of Sacramento and Stockton constitute economic and water dependent
   resources of statewide significance, fulfill essential functions in the
   maritime industry, and have long been dedicated to transportation,
   agricultural, commercial, industrial, manufacturing, and navigation
   uses consistent with federal, state, and local regulations, and that
   those uses should be maintained and enhanced.

   29712. The Legislature further finds and declares as follows:

   (a) The delta's waterways and marinas offer recreational opportunities
   of statewide and local significance and are a source of economic
   benefit to the region, and, due to increased demand and useage, there
   are public safety problems associated with that useage requiring
   increased coordination by all levels of government.

   (b ) Recreational boating within the delta is of statewide and local
   significance and is a source of economic benefit to the region, and to
   the extent of any conflict or inconsistency between this division and
   any provisions of the Harbors and Navigation Code, regarding regulating
   the operation or use of boating in the delta, the provisions of the
   Harbors and Navigation Code shall prevail.

   29713. The Legislature further finds and declares that the voluntary
   acquisition of wildlife and agricultural conservation easements in the
   delta promotes and enhances the traditional delta values of
   agriculture, habitat, and recreation.

   29714. The Legislature further finds and declares that, in enacting
   this division, it is not the intent of the Legislature to authorize any
   governmental agency acting pursuant to this division to exercise their
   power in a manner which will take or damage private property for public
   use, without the payment of just compensation therefor. This section is
   not intended to increase or decrease the rights of any owner of
   property under the California Constitution or the United States
   Constitution.

   29715. To the extent of any conflict or inconsistency between this
   division and any provision of the Water Code, the provisions of the
   Water Code shall prevail.

   29716. Nothing in this division authorizes the commission to exercise
   any jurisdiction over matters within the jurisdiction of, or to carry
   out its powers and duties in conflict with the powers and duties of,
   any other state agency.

                            CHAPTER 2.DEFINITIONS

   29720. Unless the context otherwise requires, the definitions set forth
   in this chapter govern the construction of this division.

   29720.5. "Aggrieved person" has the same meaning as defined in Section
   29117.

   29721. "Commission" means the Delta Protection Commission created by
   Section 29735.

   29722. "Delta" means the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta, as defined in
   Section 12220 of the Water Code, for all provisions of this division,
   other than Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 29735). For the purposes
   of Chapter 3, (commencing with section 29735), "delta" means the area
   of the delta minus the area contained in Alameda County.

   29723. (a) "Development" means on, in, over, or under land or water,
   the placement or erection of any solid material or structure; discharge
   of any dredged material or of any gaseous, liquid, solid, or thermal
   waste; grading, removing, dredging, mining, or extraction of any
   materials; change in the density or intensity of use of land,
   including, but not limited to, subdivisions pursuant to the Subdivision
   Map Act (Division 2 (commencing with Section 66410) of Title 7 of the
   Government Code), and any other division of land including lot splits,
   except where the land division is brought about in connection with the
   purchase of the land by a public agency for public recreational or fish
   and wildlife uses or preservation; construction, reconstruction,
   demoltition, or alteration of the size of any structure, including any
   facility of any private, public, or municipal utility; and the removal
   or harvesting of major vegetation other than for agricultural purposes.

   (b) "Development" does not include any of the following:

   (1) All farming and ranching activities, as specified in subdivision
   (e) of Section 3482.5 of the Civil Code.

   (2) The maintenance, including the reconstruction of damaged parts, of
   structures, such as marinas, dikes, dams, levees, riprap (consistent
   with Chapter 1.5 (commencing with Section 12306) of Part 4.8 of
   Division 6 of the Water Code), breakwater, causeways, bridges, ferries,
   bridge abutments, docks, berths, and boat sheds. "Maintenance"
   includes, for this purpose, the rehabilitation and reconstruction of
   levees to meet applicable standards of the United States Army Corps of
   Engineers or the Department of Water Resources.

   (3) The construction, repair, or maintenance of farm dwellings,
   buildings, stock ponds, irrigation or drainage ditches, water wells, or
   siphons, including those structures and uses permitted under the
   California Land Conservation Act of 1965 (Chapter 7 (commencing with
   Section 51200) of Part 1 of Division 1 of Title 5 of the Government
   Code).

   (4) The construction or maintenance of farm roads, or temporary roads
   for moving farm equipment.

   (5) The dredging or discharging of dredged materials, including
   maintenance dredging or removal, as engaged in by any marina, port, or
   reclamation district, in conjunction with the normal scope of their
   customary operations, consistent with existing federal, state, and
   local laws.

   (6) The replacement or repair of pilings in marinas, ports, and
   diversion facilities.

   (7) Projects within port districts, including, but not limited to,
   projects for the movement, grading, and removal of bulk materials for
   the purpose of activities related to maritime commerce and navigation.

   (8) The planning, approval, construction, operation, maintenance,
   reconstruction, alteration, or removal by a state agency or local
   agency of any water supply facilities or mitigation or enhancement
   activities undertaken in connection therewith.

   (9) Construction, reconstruction, demolition, and land divisions within
   exisiting zoning entitlements, and development within, or adjacent to,
   the unincorporated towns of the delta, as permitted in the Delta Area
   Community Plan of Sacramento County and the general plan of Yolo
   County, authorized prior to Janauary 1, 1992.

   (10) Exploration or extraction of gas and hydrocarbons.

   (11) The planning, approval, construction, repair, replacement,
   alteration, reconstruction, operation, maintenance, or removal of
   oxidation and water treatment facilities owned by the City of Stockton
   or the City of Lodi, or facilities owned by any local agency within or
   adjacent to the unincorporated towns of the delta consistent with the
   general plan of the County of Sacramento or the County of Yolo, as the
   case may be.

   29724."Local agency" means any local agency, other than a local
   government, formed pursuant to general law or special act for the local
   performance of governmental or proprietary functions within limited
   boundaries or which maintains facilities within the delta. "Local
   agency" includes, but is not limited to, a port, water agency, flood
   control district, county service area, maintenance district or area,
   improvement district or improvement area, mosquito abatement district,
   resource conservation district, irrigation district, reclamation
   district, sanitary or sewer district, or any other zone or area, formed
   for the purpose of designating an area within which either an assesment
   or a property tax rate will be levied to pay for a service or
   improvement benefiting that area or a special function will be carried
   out within that area.

   29725."Local government" means the Counties of Contra Costa,
   Sacramento, San Joaquin, Solano, and Yolo, and the Cities of
   Sacramento, Stockton, Tracy, Antioch, Pittsburg, Isleton, Lathrop,
   Brentwood, Rio Vista, and West Sacramento, and Oakley, and any other
   cities that may be incorporated in the future in the Primary Zone.

   29726."Pacific Flyway" means the identified migratory bird flight path,
   including feeding and nesting habitat, as described in the Central
   Valley Habitat Joint Venture component of the North American Waterfowl
   Management Plan (NAWMP-1986).

   29727. "Port" means the Port of Sacramento and the Port of Stockton,
   including all the land owned or leased by those ports.

   29728. "Primary Zone" means the delta land and water area of primary
   state concern and statewide significance which is situated within the
   boundaries of the delta, as described in Section 12220 of the Water
   Code, but that is not within either the urban limit line or sphere of
   influence line of any local government's general plan or currently
   existing studies, as of January 1, 1992. The precise boundary lines of
   the primary zone includes the land and water areas as shown on the map
   titled "Delta Protection Zones" on file with the Secretary of State.
   Where the boundary between the primary zone and secondary zone is a
   river, stream, channel, or waterway, the boundary line shall be the
   middle of that river, stream, channel, or waterway.

   29729. Repealed.

   29730. "Restoration" means actions which return a degraded or
   deteriorated area to a level of increased productivity, environmental
   quality, or beneficial values.

   29731. "Secondary zone" means all the delta land and water area within
   the boundaries of the delta not included within the primary zone,
   subject to the land use authority of local government, and that
   includes the land and water areas as shown on the map titled "Delta
   Protection Zones" on file with the Secretary of State.

   29732."Sphere of influence line" refers to those boundaries of local
   governments as defined in Sections 56425 and 56426 of the Government
   Code.

   29733. "Unincorporated towns" means the communities of Walnut Grove,
   Clarksburg, Courtland, Hood, Locke, and Ryde.

   29734. "Urban limit line" means that general plan line established and
   approved by any local government within the delta which delineates
   boundaries beyond which urban development is not publicly proposed by
   local government, as of January 1, 1992.

                           CHAPTER 3. ORGANIZATION

   29735. There is hereby created the Delta Protection Commission
   consisting of 19 members as follows:

   (a) One member of the board of supervisors of each of the five counties
   within the delta whose supervisorial district is within the primary
   zone shall be appointed by the board of supervisors of the county.

   (b) Three elected city council members shall be selected and appointed
   by city selection committees, from regional and area councils of
   government, one in each of the following areas:

   (1) One from the north delta, consisting of the Counties of Yolo and
   Sacramento.

   (2) One from the south delta, consisting of the County of San Joaquin.

   (3) One from the west delta, consisting of the Counties of Contra Costa
   and Solano.

   (c)(1) One member each from the board of directors of five different
   reclamation districts which are located within the primary zone who are
   residents of the delta, and who are elected by the trustees of
   reclamation districts within the following areas:

   (A) Two members from the area of the North Delta Water Agency as
   described in Section 9.1 of the North Delta Water Agency Act (Chapter
   283 of the Statutes of 1973), provided at least one member is also a
   member of the Delta Citizens Munincipal Advisory Council.

   (B) One member from the West Delta consisting of the area of Contra
   Costa County within the delta.

   (C) One member from the area of the Central Delta Water Agency as
   described in Section 9.1 of the Central Delta Water Agency Act (Chapter
   1133 of the Statutes of 1973).

   (D) One member from the area of the South Delta Water Agency as
   described in Section 9.1 of the South Delta Water Agency Act (Chapter
   1089 of the Statutes of 1973).

   (2 ) Each reclamation district may nominate one director to be a
   member. The member from an area shall be selected from among the
   nominees by a majority vote of the reclamation districts in that area.
   For purposes of this section, each relamation district shall have one
   vote. The north delta area shall conduct separate votes to select each
   of its two members.

   (d) The Director of Parks and Recreation or the director's sole
   designee.

   (e) The Director of Fish and Game or the director's sole designee.

   (f) The Director of Food and Agriculture or the director's sole
   designee.

   (g) The executive officer of the State Lands Commission or the
   executive officer's sole designee.

   (h) The Director of Boating and Waterways or the director's sole
   designee.

   (i) The Director of Water Resources or the director's sole designee.

   29736. The term of office of the members of the commission shall be for
   four years, and a member may serve for one or more consecutive terms.

   29737. Members shall serve without compensation, but the expenses of
   each member incurred in connection with official duties shall be paid
   by the commission.

   29738. The position of a member of the commission shall be considered
   vacated upon the loss of any qualification required for appointment,
   and in that event the appointing authority shall appoint a successor
   within 30 days of the occurrence of the vacancy. Upon the occurrence of
   the first vacancy among any of the members listed in subdivision (d),
   (e), (f), (g), (h), or (i) of Section 29735, the Director of
   Conservation or the director's designee shall serve as the successor
   member.

   29739. The commission shall elect from its own members a chairperson
   and vice chairperson whose terms of office shall be two years, and who
   may be reelected. If a vacancy occurs in either office, the commission
   shall fill the vacancy for the unexpired term.

   29740. One nonvoting member who shall be a Member of the Senate,
   appointed by the Senate Committee on Rules, and one nonvoting member
   who shall be a Member of the Assembly, appointed by the Speaker of the
   Assembly, both of whom represent areas within the primary zone, shall
   meet with, and participate in the activities of, the commission to the
   extent that the participation is not incompatible with their respective
   postions as Members of the Legislature. For the purpose of this
   division, those Members of the Legislature shall constitute a joint
   interim investigating committee on the subject of this division, and as
   such shall have the powers and duties imposed upon those committees by
   the Joint Rules of the Senate and Assembly.

   29741. The time and place of the first meeting of the commission shall
   be prescribed by the Governor, but in no event shall it be scheduled
   for a date later than

   January 31, 1993. All meetings after the first meeting shall be held in
   a city within the delta.

                        CHAPTER 4. POWERS AND DUTIES

                              OF THE COMMISSION

   29750. The commission shall meet at least bimonthly. All meetings shall
   be open to the public as required by law. Notice of the time and place
   of all regular and special meetings shall be published at least once in
   a newspaper of general circulation whose area of circulation is
   throughout the delta. Notice of any meeting shall be published at least
   seven days prior to the meeting date.

   29751. A majority of the voting members of the commission shall
   constitute a quorum for the transaction of the business of the
   commission. A majority vote of the voting members present shall be
   required to take action with respect to any matter unless otherwise
   specified in this division. The vote of each member shall be
   individually recorded.

   29752. The commission shall adopt its own rules, regulations, and
   procedures necessary for its organization and operation.

   29753. The commission shall appoint agricultural, environmental, and
   recreational advisory committees for the purpose of providing the
   commission with timely comments, advice, and information. The
   commission may appoint committees from its membership or may appoint
   additional advisory committees from members of other interested public
   agencies and private groups. The commission shall seek advice and
   recommendations from advisory committees appointed by local government
   which are involved in subject matters affecting the delta.

   29754. The commission shall establish and maintain an office within the
   delta, and for this purpose the commission may rent or own property and
   equipment. Any rule, regulation, procedure, plan, or other record of
   the commission which is of such a nature as to constitute a public
   record under state law shall be available for inspection and copying
   during regular office hours.

   29755. The commission shall appoint, and fix the salary of, an
   executive director who shall have charge of administering the affairs
   of the commission, including entering into contracts, subject to the
   directions and policies of the commission. The executive director
   shall, subject to the approval of the commission, appoint those
   employees that are necessary to carry out the functions of the
   commission.

   29756. The commission may promote, facilitate, and administer the
   acquisition of voluntary private and public wildlife and agricultural
   conservation easements in the delta.

   29756.5. The commission may act as the facilitating agency for the
   implementation of any joint habitat restoration or enhancement programs
   located within the primary zone of the delta.

   29757. The commission may apply for and accept federal grants or other
   federal funds and receive gifts, donations, rents, royalties, state
   funds derived from bond sales, the proceeds of taxes or funds from any
   other state revenue sources, or any other financial support from public
   or private sources.

   29758. All members of the commission are subject to Title 9 (commencing
   with Section 85100) of the Government Code.

   29759. Repealed

                     CHAPTER 5. RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PLAN

   29760. (a) Not later than October 1, 1994, the commission shall prepare
   and adopt, by a majority vote of the membership of the commission, and
   thereafter review and maintain, a comprehensive long-term resource
   management plan for land uses within the primary zone of the delta. The
   resource management plan shall consist of the map of the primary zone
   and text or texts setting forth a description of the needs and goals
   for the delta and a statement of the policies, standards, and elements
   of the resource management plan.

   (b) The resource management plan shall meet the following requirements:

   (1) Protect and preserve the cultural values and economic vitality that
   reflect the history, natural heritage, and human resources of the
   delta.

   (2) Conserve and protect the quality of renewable resources.

   (3) Preserve and protect agricultural viability.

   (4) Restore, improve, and manage levee systems by promoting strategies,
   including, but not limited to, methods and procedures which advance the
   adoption and implementation of coordinated and uniform standards among
   governmental agencies for the maintenance, repair, and construction of
   both public and private levees.

   (5) Preserve and protect delta dependent fisheries and their habitat.

   (6) Preserve and protect riparian and wetlands habitat, and promote and
   encourage a net increase in both the acreage and values of those
   resources on public lands and through voluntary cooperative
   arrangements with private property owners.

   (7) Preserve and protect the water quality of the delta, both for
   instream purposes and for human use and consumption.

   (8) Preserve and protect open-space and outdoor recreational
   opportunities.

   (9) Preserve and protect private property interests from trespassing
   and vandalism.

   (10) Preserve and protect opportunities for controlled public access
   and use of public lands and waterways

   consistent with the protection of natural resources and private
   property interests.

   (11) Preserve, protect, and maintain navigation.

   (12) Protect the delta from any development that results in any
   significant loss of habitat or agricultural land.

   (13) Promote strategies for the funding, acquisition, and maintenance
   of voluntary cooperative arrangements, such as conservation easements,
   between property owners and conservation groups that protect wildlife
   habitat and agricultural land, while not impairing the integrity of
   levees.

   (14) Permit water reservoir and habitat development that is compatible
   with other uses.

   (c) The resource management plan shall not supersede the authority of
   local governments over areas within the secondary zone.

   (d) To facilitate, in part, the requirements specified in paragraphs
   (8), (9), (10), and (11) of subdivision (b), the commission shall
   include in the resource management plan, in consultation with all law
   enforcement agencies having jurisdiction in the delta, a strategy for
   the implementation of a coordinated marine patrol system throughout the
   delta that will improve law enforcement and coordinate the use of
   resources by all jurisdictions to ensure an adequate level of public
   safety. The strategic plan shall identify resources to implement that
   coordination. The commission shall have no authority to abrogate the
   exisiting authority of any law enforcement agency.

   (e) To the extent that any of the requirements specified in this
   section are in conflict, nothing in this division shall deny the right
   of the landowner to continue the agricultural use of the land.

   29761. The Director of the Office of Planning and Research shall submit
   comments and recommendations on the resource management plan for the
   commission's consideration, prior to the plan's adoption.

   29761.5. Not later than January 7, 1995, the commission shall transmit
   copies of the resource management plan to the Governor. Copies of the
   resource management plan shall be made available, upon request, to
   Members of the Legislature.

   29762. The commission shall adopt, by a majority vote of the membership
   of the commission, the resource management plan after at least three
   public hearings, with at least one hearing held in a city in the north
   delta, the south delta, and the west delta.

   29763. Within 180 days from the date of the adoption of the resource
   management plan or any amendments by the commission, all local
   governments shall submit to the commission proposed amendments that
   will cause their general plans to be consistent with the criteria in
   Section 29763.5 with respect to land located within the primary zone.

   29763.5. The commission shall act on proposed general plan amendments
   within 60 days from the date of submittal of the proposed amendments.
   The commission shall approve the proposed general plan amendments by a
   majority vote of the commission membership, with regard to lands within
   the primary zone, only after making all of the following written
   findings as to the potential impact of the proposed amendments, to the
   extent that those impacts will not increase requirements or
   restrictions upon agricultural practices in the primary zone, based on
   substantial evidence in the record:

   (a) The general plan, and any development approved or proposed that is
   consistent with the general plan, are consistent with the resource
   management plan.

   (b) The general plan, and any development approved or proposed that is
   consistent with the general plan, will not result in wetland or
   riparian loss.

   (c) The general plan, and development approved or proposed that is
   consistent with the general plan, will not result in the degradation of
   water quality.

   (d) The general plan, and any development approved or proposed that is
   consistent with the general plan, will not result in increased nonpoint
   source pollution.

   (e) The general plan, and any development approved or proposed that is
   consistent with the general plan, will not result in the degradation or
   reduction of Pacific Flyway habitat.

   (f) The general plan, and any development approved or proposed that is
   consistent with the general plan, will not result in reduced public
   access, provided the access does not infringe on private property
   rights.

   (g) The general plan, and any development approved or proposed that is
   consistent with the general plan, will not expose the public to
   increased flood hazard.

   (h) The general plan, and any development approved or proposed that is
   consistent with the general plan, will not adversely impact
   agricultural lands or increase the potential for vandalism, trespass,
   or the creation of public or private nuisances on public or private
   land.

   (i) The general plan, and any development approved or proposed that is
   consistent with the general plan, will not result in the degradation or
   impairment of levee integrity.

   (j) The general plan, and any development approved or proposed that is
   consistent with the general plan, will not adversely impact navigation.

   (k) The general plan, and any development approved or proposed that is
   consistent with the general plan, will not result in any increased
   requirements or restrictions upon agricultural practices in the primary
   zone.

   29763.8. A local government shall adopt its proposed general plan
   amendments within 120 days after their approval by the commission.

   29764. This division does not confer any permitting authority upon the
   commission or require any local government to conform their general
   plan, or land use entitlement decisions, to the resource management
   plan, except with regard to lands within the primary zone. The resource
   management plan does not preempt local government general plans for
   lands within the secondary zone.

   29765. Prior to the commission approving the general plan amendments of
   the local government, the local government may approve development
   within the primary zone only after making all of the following written
   findings on the basis of substantial evidence in the record:

   (a) The development will not result in wetland or riparian loss.

   (b) The development will not result in the degradation of water
   quality.

   (c) The development will not result in increased nonpoint source
   pollution or soil erosion, including subsidence or sedimentation.

   (d) The development will not result in degradation or reduction of
   Pacific Flyway habitat.

   (e) The development will not result in reduced public access, provided
   that access does not infringe upon private property rights.

   (f) The development will not expose the public to increased flood
   hazards.

   (g) The development will not adversely impact agricultural lands or
   increase the potential for vandalism, trespass, or the creation of
   public or private nuisances on private or public land.

   (h) The development will not result in the degradation or impairment of
   levee integrity.

   (i) The development will not adversely impact navigation.

   (j) The development will not result in any increased requirements or
   restrictions upon agricultural practices in the primary zone.

   29766. Nothing in this division shall deny the right of private or
   public property owners and local governments to establish agriculture
   preserves and enter into contracts pursuant to the California Land
   Conservation Act of 1965 (Chapter 7(commencing with Section 51200) of
   part 1 of Division 1 of Title 5 of the Government Code) or apply other
   enforceable restrictions or zoning within the primary zone or the
   secondary zone.

   29767. The commission may not exercise the power of eminent domain in
   implementing the resource management plan, unless requested by the
   landowner.

                    CHAPTER 6. APPEAL AND JUDICIAL REVIEW

   29770. (a) Any person who is aggrieved by any action taken by a local
   government or other local agency in implementing the resource
   management plan, or otherwise taken pursuant to this division, may file
   an appeal with the commission. The ground for an appeal and the
   commission consideration of an appeal shall be that an action, as to
   land located exclusively within the primary zone, is inconsistent with
   the resource management plan, the approved portions of local government
   general plans that implement the resource management plan, or this
   division. The appeal shall be heard by the commission within 60 days
   from the date of the filing of the appeal, unless the commission,
   either itself or by delegation to the executive director, determines
   that the issue raised on appeal is not within the commission's
   jurisdiction or does not raise an appealable issue.

   (b) The commission shall, by regulation, adopt administrative
   procedures governing those appeals.

   29771. After a hearing on an appealed action, the commission shall
   either deny the appeal or remand the matter to the local government or
   local agency for reconsideration, after making specific findings. Upon
   remand, the local government or local agency may modify the appealed
   action and resubmit the matter for review to the commission. A proposed
   action appealed pursuant to this section shall not be effective until
   the commission has adopted written findings, based on substantial
   evidence in the record, that the action is consistent with the resource
   management plan, the approved portions of local government general
   plans that implement the resource management plan, and this division.

   29772. An aggrieved person may seek judicial review of any action taken
   by the commission in adopting the resource management plan or any
   action taken by a local government or other local agency that is
   appealable pursuant to subdivision (a) of Section 29770, by filing a
   petition for writ of mandate in accordance with Section 1094.5 of the
   Code of Civil Procedure within 60 days from the date that the
   commission action was taken or, if appealed to the commission, within
   60 days from the final decision of the commission on the appeal.

                       CHAPTER 7. FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

   29775. Repealed

   29776. Repealed.

   29777. Repealed

                          CHAPTER 8. ANNUAL REPORT

   29780. On January 1of each year, the commission shall submit to the
   Governor and the Legislature a report describing the progress that has
   been made in achieving the objectives of this division. The report
   shall include, but not be limited to, all of the following information:

   (a) An evaluation of the effectiveness of the resource management plan
   in preserving agricultural lands, restoring delta habitat, improving
   levee protection and water quality, providing increased public access
   and recreational opportunities, and in undertaking other functions
   prescribed in this division.

   (b) An update of the resource management plan, using baseline
   conditions set forth in the original resource management plan.

   (c) The status of the environmental thresholds established by the
   commission in the original resource management plan.

   SEC.3. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to Section 6
   of Article XIIIB of the California Constitution because a local agency
   or school district has the authority to levy service charges, fees, or
   assessments sufficient to pay for the program or level of service
   mandated by this act, within the meaning of Section 17556 of the
   Government Code.

   Notwothstanding Section 17580 of the Government Code, unless otherwise
   specified, the provisions of this act shall become operative on the
   same date that the act takes effect pursuant to the California
   Constitution.

   SEC.4. The sum of two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000) is
   hereby appropriated from the California Environmental License Plate
   Fund to the Delta Protection Commission as a loan for costs incurred
   for organization and operation of the commission, including costs
   incurred for preparation and adoption of the regional plan, as defined
   in Section 29729 of the Public Resources Code. The loan shall be repaid
   to the California Environmental License Plate Fund not later than
   December 31, 1998.

   SEC.5. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to Section 6
   of Article XIIIB of the California Constitution because a local agency
   or school district has the authority to levy service charges, fees, or
   assessments sufficient to pay for the program or level of service
   mandated by this act, within the meaning of Section 17556 of the
   Government Code.

   Notwithstanding Section 17580 of the Government Code, unless otherwise
   specified, the provisions of this act shall become operative on the
   same date that the act takes effect pursuant to the California
   Constitution.


                               * * * * * * * *
