http://www.expo.gsa.gov/indexText.html

   If you are a Federal employee
   this is your FREE training source for best practices in procurement,
   innovations in technology, and many other career-building topics
   designed with you in mind.

   If you are a government contractor

   this is your opportunity to reach thousands and thousands of Federal
   purchasers in one place, many of whom can make buying decisions on the
   spot. A dual Training/Exposition event, GSA's Expo 2002 is designed for
   both Federal government employees who are involved in the acquisition
   community, and for the commercial business contractors they deal with.
   There is something for everyone.

   Training tracks for Federal employees.

   By participating in the Expo's training you will keep up to date with
   the many changes that impact your agency. You'll learn how to work more
   productively and efficiently, and to contain costs while maintaining
   the highest standards of quality. Our training will help you accomplish
   these items and more.

   Current sessions include:

     Professional Procurement

     Winning Partnerships

     Travel & Transportation

     GSA Advantage!®

     E-Business

     and much more !

   GSA training for Exhibitors.

   There will also be specialized training for GSA schedule holders that
   includes special marketing opportunity classes. Last year's Expo
   exhibitor training sessions included the following:

     The Overseas Market-Great Sales Opportunities

     Section 508 Training for Contractors

     FSS Tips on Marketing the Federal Government

     Corporate Contracting

     GSA Advantage 6.0 for Contractors/Industry Partners

     The Winning Strategy, Marketing Tips for the 21st Century (OED)

   Valuable learning and networking for government purchasing agents.

   The Expo 2002 will showcase over 500 of GSA's commercial partners each
   featuring a wide-range of products and services available through GSA.

   You will talk directly to the technical experts and see the latest in
   information technology, furniture and appliances, tools, vehicles,
   athletic equipment, office supplies and much much more.

   You'll earn CEU credits.

   When you attend Expo training you will earn CEU credits toward your
   annual training requirements. You'll also learn from the best.
   Continuing Education Units (CEUs) from the International Association
   for Continuing Education and Training (IACET) will be offered for
   selected courses during GSA Expo 2002. (IACET CEUs are internationally
   recognized as the standard to meet for continuing adult education and
   training. IACET includes over 750 organizations and individuals
   committed to continuous quality improvement in continuing education and
   training programs.)

   This website will be expanded weekly as we develop the daily events and
   training curriculum, so check back often!
