http://oig.lsc.gov/legis/107-77.htm

     H.R. 2500: Public L. 107-77 (November 28, 2001)

     One Hundred Seventh Congress

     of the

     United States of America

     AT THE FIRST SESSION

     Begun and held at the City of Washington on Wednesday,

     the third day of January, two thousand and one

     An Act

     Making appropriations for the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and
     State, the Judiciary, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending
     September 30, 2002, and for other purposes.

       Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
       United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following
       sums are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not
       otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending September 30,
       2002, and for other purposes, namely:

     *   *   *   *

     Legal Services Corporation

     PAYMENT TO THE LEGAL SERVICES CORPORATION

     For payment to the Legal Services Corporation to carry out the purposes
     of the Legal Services Corporation Act of 1974, as amended,
     $329,300,000, of which $310,000,000 is for basic field programs and
     required independent audits; $2,500,000 is for the Office of Inspector
     General, of which such amounts as may be necessary may be used to
     conduct additional audits of recipients; $12,400,000 is for management
     and administration; and $4,400,000 is for client self-help and
     information technology.

     ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS--LEGAL SERVICES CORPORATION

     None of the funds appropriated in this Act to the Legal Services
     Corporation shall be expended for any purpose prohibited or limited by,
     or contrary to any of the provisions of, sections 501, 502, 503, 504,
     505, and 506 of Public Law 105-119, and all funds appropriated in this
     Act to the Legal Services Corporation shall be subject to the same
     terms and conditions set forth in such sections, except that all
     references in sections 502 and 503 to 1997 and 1998 shall be deemed to
     refer instead to 2001 and 2002, respectively.

     Section 504(a)(16) of Public Law 104-134 is hereafter amended by
     striking `if such relief does not involve' and all that follows through
     `representation'

     *   *   *   *

     TITLE VI--GENERAL PROVISIONS

     SEC. 601. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall be
     used for publicity or propaganda purposes not authorized by the
     Congress.

     SEC. 602. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall
     remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless
     expressly so provided herein.

     SEC. 603. The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for any
     consulting service through procurement contract, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
     3109, shall be limited to those contracts where such expenditures are a
     matter of public record and available for public inspection, except
     where otherwise provided under existing law, or under existing
     Executive order issued pursuant to existing law.

     SEC. 604. If any provision of this Act or the application of such
     provision to any person or circumstances shall be held invalid, the
     remainder of the Act and the application of each provision to persons
     or circumstances other than those as to which it is held invalid shall
     not be affected thereby.

     SEC. 605. (a) None of the funds provided under this Act, or provided
     under previous appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act
     that remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year
     2002, or provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United
     States derived by the collection of fees available to the agencies
     funded by this Act, shall be available for obligation or expenditure
     through a reprogramming of funds which: (1) creates new programs; (2)
     eliminates a program, project, or activity; (3) increases funds or
     personnel by any means for any project or activity for which funds have
     been denied or restricted; (4) relocates an office or employees; (5)
     reorganizes offices, programs, or activities; or (6) contracts out or
     privatizes any functions or activities presently performed by Federal
     employees; unless the Appropriations Committees of both Houses of
     Congress are notified 15 days in advance of such reprogramming of
     funds.

     (b) None of the funds provided under this Act, or provided under
     previous appropriations Acts to the agencies funded by this Act that
     remain available for obligation or expenditure in fiscal year 2002, or
     provided from any accounts in the Treasury of the United States derived
     by the collection of fees available to the agencies funded by this Act,
     shall be available for obligation or expenditure for activities,
     programs, or projects through a reprogramming of funds in excess of
     $500,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less, that: (1) augments existing
     programs, projects, or activities; (2) reduces by 10 percent funding
     for any existing program, project, or activity, or numbers of personnel
     by 10 percent as approved by Congress; or (3) results from any general
     savings from a reduction in personnel which would result in a change in
     existing programs, activities, or projects as approved by Congress;
     unless the Appropriations Committees of both Houses of Congress are
     notified 15 days in advance of such reprogramming of funds.

     SEC. 606. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used for
     the construction, repair (other than emergency repair), overhaul,
     conversion, or modernization of vessels for the National Oceanic and
     Atmospheric Administration in shipyards located outside of the United
     States.

     SEC. 607. (a) PURCHASE OF AMERICAN-MADE EQUIPMENT AND PRODUCTS- It is
     the sense of the Congress that, to the greatest extent practicable, all
     equipment and products purchased with funds made available in this Act
     should be American-made.

     (b) NOTICE REQUIREMENT- In providing financial assistance to, or
     entering into any contract with, any entity using funds made available
     in this Act, the head of each Federal agency, to the greatest extent
     practicable, shall provide to such entity a notice describing the
     statement made in subsection (a) by the Congress.

     (c) PROHIBITION OF CONTRACTS WITH PERSONS FALSELY LABELING PRODUCTS AS
     MADE IN AMERICA- If it has been finally determined by a court or
     Federal agency that any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a
     `Made in America' inscription, or any inscription with the same
     meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is
     not made in the United States, the person shall be ineligible to
     receive any contract or subcontract made with funds made available in
     this Act, pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility
     procedures described in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code
     of Federal Regulations.

     SEC. 608. None of the funds made available in this Act may be used to
     implement, administer, or enforce any guidelines of the Equal
     Employment Opportunity Commission covering harassment based on
     religion, when it is made known to the Federal entity or official to
     which such funds are made available that such guidelines do not differ
     in any respect from the proposed guidelines published by the Commission
     on October 1, 1993 (58 Fed. Reg. 51266).

     SEC. 609. None of the funds made available by this Act may be used for
     any United Nations undertaking when it is made known to the Federal
     official having authority to obligate or expend such funds: (1) that
     the United Nations undertaking is a peacekeeping mission; (2) that such
     undertaking will involve United States Armed Forces under the command
     or operational control of a foreign national; and (3) that the
     President's military advisors have not submitted to the President a
     recommendation that such involvement is in the national security
     interests of the United States and the President has not submitted to
     the Congress such a recommendation.

     SEC. 610. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made
     available by this Act shall be expended for any purpose for which
     appropriations are prohibited by section 609 of the Departments of
     Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies
     Appropriations Act, 1999.

     (b) The requirements in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section 609 of
     that Act shall continue to apply during fiscal year 2002.

     SEC. 611. Hereafter, none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made
     available to the Bureau of Prisons shall be used to provide the
     following amenities or personal comforts in the Federal prison system--

     (1) in-cell television viewing except for prisoners who are segregated
     from the general prison population for their own safety;

     (2) the viewing of R, X, and NC-17 rated movies, through whatever
     medium presented;

     (3) any instruction (live or through broadcasts) or training equipment
     for boxing, wrestling, judo, karate, or other martial art, or any
     bodybuilding or weightlifting equipment of any sort;

     (4) possession of in-cell coffee pots, hot plates or heating elements;
     or

     (5) the use or possession of any electric or electronic musical
     instrument.

     SEC. 612. (a) The President shall submit as part of the fiscal year
     2003 budget to Congress a proposal to restructure the Department of
     Justice to include a coordinator of Department of Justice activities
     relating to combating domestic terrorism, including State and local
     grant programs subject to the authority of the Attorney General, and
     who will serve as the Department of Justice representative at
     interagency meetings on combating terrorism below the Cabinet level.

     (b) If the President does not submit a proposal as described in
     subsection (a), or if Congress fails to enact legislation establishing
     a new position described in subsection (a), by June 30, 2002, then
     effective on such date subsections (c) through (f) shall take effect.

     (c)(1) Section 504 of title 28, United States Code, is amended by
     inserting after `General' the following: `and a Deputy Attorney General
     for Combating Domestic Terrorism'.

     (2) the Section heading for section 504 of title 28, United States
     Code, is amended by striking `Attorney' and inserting `Attorneys'.

     (d) The Deputy Attorney General for Combating Domestic Terrorism
     (appointed under section 504 of title 28, United States Code, as
     amended by subsection (c)) shall--

     (1) serve as the principal adviser to the Attorney General for
     combating terrorism, counterterrorism, and antiterrorism policy;

     (2) have responsibility for coordinating all functions within the
     Department of Justice relating to combating domestic terrorism
     including--

     (A) policies, plans, and oversight, as they relate to combating
     terrorism, counterterrorism, and antiterrorism activities;

     (B) State and local preparedness for terrorist events;

     (C) security classifications and clearances within the Department of
     Justice;

     (D) contingency operations within the Department of Justice; and

     (E) critical infrastructure.

     (3) coordinate--

     (A) all inter-agency interface between the Department of Justice and
     other departments, agencies, and entities of the United States,
     including State and local organizations, engaged in combating
     terrorism, counterterrorism, and antiterrorism activities; and

     (B) the implementation of the national strategy for combating terrorism
     by State and local entities with responsibilities for combating
     domestic terrorism; and

     (4) recommend changes in the organization and management of the
     Department of Justice and State and local entities engaged in combating
     domestic terrorism to the Attorney General.

     (e) There is appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury of the
     United States not otherwise appropriated, for necessary expenses of the
     Office of the Deputy Attorney General for Combating Domestic Terrorism
     of the Department of Justice, $1,000,000, to remain available until
     expended.

     (f) Effective September 30, 2002, there is transferred to the Deputy
     Attorney General for Combating Domestic Terrorism all authorities,
     liabilities, funding, personnel, equipment, and real property employed
     or used by, or associated with, the Office of Domestic Preparedness,
     the National Domestic Preparedness Office, the Executive Office of
     National Security, and such appropriate components of the Office of
     Intelligence Policy and Review as relate to combating terrorism,
     counterterrorism, and antiterrorism activities.

     SEC. 613. Any costs incurred by a department or agency funded under
     this Act resulting from personnel actions taken in response to funding
     reductions included in this Act shall be absorbed within the total
     budgetary resources available to such department or agency: Provided,
     That the authority to transfer funds between appropriations accounts as
     may be necessary to carry out this section is provided in addition to
     authorities included elsewhere in this Act: Provided further, That use
     of funds to carry out this section shall be treated as a reprogramming
     of funds under section 605 of this Act and shall not be available for
     obligation or expenditure except in compliance with the procedures set
     forth in that section.

     SEC. 614. Hereafter, none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made
     available to the Federal Bureau of Prisons may be used to distribute or
     make available any commercially published information or material to a
     prisoner when it is made known to the Federal official having authority
     to obligate or expend such funds that such information or material is
     sexually explicit or features nudity.

     SEC. 615. Of the funds appropriated in this Act under the heading
     `Office of Justice Programs--State and Local Law Enforcement
     Assistance', not more than 90 percent of the amount to be awarded to an
     entity under the Local Law Enforcement Block Grant shall be made
     available to such an entity when it is made known to the Federal
     official having authority to obligate or expend such funds that the
     entity that employs a public safety officer (as such term is defined in
     section 1204 of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets
     Act of 1968) does not provide such a public safety officer who retires
     or is separated from service due to injury suffered as the direct and
     proximate result of a personal injury sustained in the line of duty
     while responding to an emergency situation or a hot pursuit (as such
     terms are defined by State law) with the same or better level of health
     insurance benefits at the time of retirement or separation as they
     received while on duty.

     SEC. 616. None of the funds provided by this Act shall be available to
     promote the sale or export of tobacco or tobacco products, or to seek
     the reduction or removal by any foreign country of restrictions on the
     marketing of tobacco or tobacco products, except for restrictions which
     are not applied equally to all tobacco or tobacco products of the same
     type.

     SEC. 617. (a) None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made
     available by this Act shall be expended for any purpose for which
     appropriations are prohibited by section 616 of the Departments of
     Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies
     Appropriations Act, 1999, as amended.

     (b) Subsection (a)(1) of section 616 of that Act, as amended, is
     further amended by striking `Claudy Myrthil,'.

     (c) The requirements in subsections (b) and (c) of section 616 of that
     Act shall continue to apply during fiscal year 2002.

     SEC. 618. None of the funds appropriated pursuant to this Act or any
     other provision of law may be used for: (1) the implementation of any
     tax or fee in connection with the implementation of 18 U.S.C. 922(t);
     and (2) any system to implement 18 U.S.C. 922(t) that does not require
     and result in the destruction of any identifying information submitted
     by or on behalf of any person who has been determined not to be
     prohibited from owning a firearm.

     SEC. 619. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, amounts deposited
     or available in the Fund established under 42 U.S.C. 10601 in any
     fiscal year in excess of $550,000,000 shall not be available for
     obligation until the following fiscal year, with the exception of
     emergency appropriations made available by Public Law 107-38 and
     transferred to the Fund.

     SEC. 620. None of the funds made available to the Department of Justice
     in this Act may be used to discriminate against or denigrate the
     religious or moral beliefs of students who participate in programs for
     which financial assistance is provided from those funds, or of the
     parents or legal guardians of such students.

     SEC. 621. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available to
     the Department of State and the Department of Justice shall be
     available for the purpose of granting either immigrant or nonimmigrant
     visas, or both, consistent with the Secretary's determination under
     section 243(d) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, to citizens,
     subjects, nationals, or residents of countries that the Attorney
     General has determined deny or unreasonably delay accepting the return
     of citizens, subjects, nationals, or residents under that section.

     SEC. 622. None of the funds made available to the Department of Justice
     in this Act may be used for the purpose of transporting an individual
     who is a prisoner pursuant to conviction for crime under State or
     Federal law and is classified as a maximum or high security prisoner,
     other than to a prison or other facility certified by the Federal
     Bureau of Prisons as appropriately secure for housing such a prisoner.

     SEC. 623. The requirements of section 312(a)(3) of the Magnuson-Stevens
     Fishery Conservation and Management Act shall not apply to funds made
     available by section 2201 of Public Law 106-246.

     SEC. 624. (a) Section 203(i) of the Act entitled `An Act to approve a
     governing international agreement between the United States and the
     Republic of Poland, and for other purposes', approved November 13,
     1998, is amended by striking `2001' and inserting `2006'.

     (b) Section 203 of such Act, as amended by subsection (a), is further
     amended by adding at the end the following:

     `(j) Not later than December 31, 2001, and every 2 years thereafter,
     the Pacific State Marine Fisheries Commission shall submit to the
     Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and
     the Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives a report on
     the health and management of the Dungeness Crab fishery located off the
     coasts of the States of Washington, Oregon, and California.'.

     SEC. 625. Section 140 of Public Law 97-92 (28 U.S.C. 461 note; 95 Stat.
     1200) is amended by adding at the end the following: `This section
     shall apply to fiscal year 1981 and each fiscal year thereafter.'.

     SEC. 626. (a) The President shall submit, by not later than the time of
     submission of the Budget of the United States Government for Fiscal
     Year 2003, a legislative proposal to establish a comprehensive program
     to ensure fair, equitable, and prompt compensation for all United
     States victims of international terrorism (or relatives of deceased
     United States victims of international terrorism) that occurred or
     occurs on or after November 1, 1979.

     (b) The legislative proposal shall include, among other things, which
     types of events should be covered; which categories of individuals
     should be covered by a compensation program; the means by which United
     States victims of prior or future acts of international terrorism,
     including those with hostage claims against foreign states, will be
     covered; the establishment of a Special Master to administer the
     program; the categories of injuries for which there should be
     compensation; the process by which any collateral source of
     compensation to a victim (or a relative of a deceased victim) for an
     act of international terrorism shall be offset from any compensation
     that may be paid to that victim (or that relative) under the program
     established by this section; and identifiable sources of funds
     including assets of any state sponsor of terrorism to make payments
     under the program.

     (c) Amend 28 U.S.C. Section 1605(a)(7)(A) by inserting at the end,
     before the semicolon, the following: `or the act is related to Case
     Number 1:00CV03110(ESG) in the United States District Court for the
     District of Columbia'.

     SEC. 627. No funds appropriated by this Act may be used by Federal
     prisons to purchase cable television services, to rent or purchase
     videocassettes, videocassette recorders, or other audiovisual or
     electronic equipment used primarily for recreational purposes. The
     preceding sentence does not preclude the renting, maintenance, or
     purchase of audiovisual or electronic equipment for inmate training,
     religious, or educational programs.

     SEC. 628. Clause (ii) of section 621(5)(A) of the Communications
     Satellite Act of 1962 (47 U.S.C. 763(5)(A)) is amended by striking `on
     or about October 1, 2000,' and all that follows through the end and
     inserting `not later than December 31, 2002, except that the Commission
     may extend this deadline to not later than June 30, 2003.

     SEC. 629. For an additional amount for `Small Business Administration,
     Salaries and Expenses', $30,000,000, of which $1,000,000 shall be
     available for a grant to Green Thumb, Inc., to expand activities
     serving small businesses and older entrepreneurs; $500,000 shall be
     available for a grant to the New York Small Business Development Center
     to establish veterans business outreach programs; $1,000,000 shall be
     for a grant to the University of West Florida for a virtual business
     accelerator program; $1,000,000 shall be for a grant to Hamilton
     County, Tennessee, to establish a high-tech small business incubator;
     $500,000 shall be available for a grant to the Oklahoma Department of
     Career and Technology Education for a technology-based program for
     vocational training for economic and job development; $200,000 shall be
     available for a grant to Rural Enterprises, Inc., in Durant, Oklahoma,
     to continue support for a resource center for rural businesses;
     $100,000 shall be available for a grant to Oklahoma State University
     for a center for international trade development; $300,000 shall be for
     a grant to the University of Montana to establish an economic
     development resource center; $1,000,000 shall be for a grant to George
     Mason University to conduct an information technology business
     development program; $1,500,000 shall be for a grant to Shenandoah
     University to develop a historical and tourism development facility;
     $1,000,000 shall be for a grant to the Software Productivity Consortium
     to develop a facility to support demonstration programs on information
     technology and telework; $1,000,000 shall be for a grant to the
     Southern Kentucky Tourism Development Association for continuation of a
     regional tourism promotion initiative; $1,500,000 shall be for a grant
     to the Southern Kentucky Economic Development Corporation for regional
     infrastructure and economic development initiatives; $450,000 shall be
     for a grant to Southern Kentucky Rehabilitation Industries for
     financial assistance and small business development; $350,000 shall be
     available for a grant to the Catskill Mountain Foundation to develop
     facilities and small business assistance programs; $500,000 shall be
     for a grant to the East Los Angeles Community Union to redevelop small
     business assistance facilities; $300,000 shall be for a grant to the
     Rockford, Illinois, Health Council for a pilot program on small
     business health care insurance issues; $2,000,000 shall be for a grant
     for the Illinois Coalition for a national demonstration project
     providing one-stop assistance for technology startup businesses;
     $1,000,000 shall be for a grant to James Madison University for library
     programs and facilities to assist small businesses; $300,000 shall be
     for a grant to Lewis and Clark College in Lewiston, Idaho, to develop a
     virtual business incubator; $300,000 shall be for a grant to the City
     of Chesapeake, Virginia, to develop a community and microenterprise
     development facility; $700,000 shall be for a grant to Social Compact
     for the `Realizing the Dream' initiative; $1,000,000 shall be for a
     grant to Soundview Community in Action for a technology access and
     business improvement project; $500,000 shall be for a grant to the
     Urban Justice Center in New York City for a community development
     project; $1,000,000 shall be for a grant to the Bronx Child Study
     Center at the Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center; $2,000,000 shall be for a
     grant to the Los Angeles Conservancy for rebuilding and revitalization;
     $2,000,000 shall be to the Rhode Island School of Design for the
     modernization of a building to establish a small business incubator;
     $500,000 shall be for a grant to Johnstown Area Regional Industries for
     a High Technology Initiative and a Wireless/Digital Technology Program;
     $400,000 shall be for a grant to Purdue University for the purposes of
     constructing the Purdue Regional Technology Center in Lake County,
     Indiana; $500,000 shall be for a grant to the NTTC at Wheeling Jesuit
     University to continue the outreach program to assist small business
     development; $400,000 shall be for a grant to the Infotonics Center of
     Excellence in Rochester, New York, for photonics incubation and
     business development; $1,100,000 shall be for a grant to the
     MountainMade Foundation to fulfill its charter purposes and to continue
     the initiative developed by the NTTC for promotion, business and sites
     development, and education of artists and craftspeople; $500,000 shall
     be for a grant to the West Virginia High Technology Consortium
     Foundation to develop a small business commercialization grant program;
     $400,000 shall be for a grant to the National Corrections and Law
     Enforcement Training and Technology Center, Inc., to work in
     conjunction with the Office of Law Enforcement Technology
     Commercialization and the Moundsville Economic Development Council for
     continued operations of the National Corrections and Law Enforcement
     Training and Technology Center, and for infrastructure improvements
     associated with this initiative; $500,000 shall be for a grant to the
     Chippewa Falls Industrial Development Corporation in Chippewa Falls,
     Wisconsin, for a business development assistance program; $400,000
     shall be for a grant to the National Center for e-Commerce at
     Polytechnic University in Brooklyn, New York; $150,000 shall be for a
     grant to Portage County, Wisconsin, for the establishment of a
     revolving loan fund; $1,000,000 shall be for a grant to the Upper
     Manhattan Empowerment Zone to develop a community accessible
     recreational area and economic development site along the Hudson River
     between 125th and 135th Streets; $150,000 is for a grant to the Long
     Island Bay Shore Aquarium to develop a facility; $500,000 is for a
     grant to Yonkers, New York, for the Nepperhan Valley Technology Center;
     and $500,000 shall be for a grant for Greenpoint Manufacturing and
     Design Center to acquire certain properties to develop a small business
     incubator facility: Provided, That Section 633 of Public Law 106-553 is
     amended with respect to a grant of $1,000,000 for the City of Oak
     Ridge, Tennessee, by inserting the words `through a subaward to the Oak
     Ridge Associated University for renovation and expansion of a facility
     owned by the Oak Ridge Associated University' after `to support
     technology and economic development initiatives'.

     URL: http://www.oig.lsc.gov/legis/107-77.htm

   Return to Top
