http://www-email.fnal.gov/march22_fnal.htm

What Happened to Email the Week of March 22nd, 1999 ?

   Overview

   The Computing Division apologizes for the trouble caused by the
   slowness of the FNAL mail gateway on Tuesday and Wednesday, March 23
   and 24. A more complete explanation follows. A mail loop set up by one
   person caused a chain of events which eventually clogged FNAL. It took
   two days to clear because of the complicated nature of the clogged
   queues. We are doing all we can to prevent this in the future, by
   educating people about proper mail use, improving the automated problem
   handling in the system, and long-term planning for the FNAL gateway. We
   realize how important fast and reliable email is to the laboratory.

   Detailed Explanation

   A user at the lab had 3 places that they could read email- imapserver1,
   a vax cluster on site, and a Quickmail server. The user also had an
   account and a mail alias on FNAL, the lab mail gateway. The mail alias
   forwarded mail back to the user account on the mail gateway. The user
   account then forwarded mail to the VAX cluster. The user had also
   configured their account on IMAPserver1 to forward mail to their VAX
   account as well as their Quickmail account. (Yes, forwards to two
   separate systems) Mail forwarding on the IMAP servers will leave a copy
   of the message in the users account before sending it on to the
   forwarded address(s).

   On the evening of Monday, March 22nd, the user changed their forwarding
   on one of their accounts and created an email loop between the users
   VAX account and their IMAP account. The user than sent a test message
   that looped between the two systems. Remember every time the message
   came through the IMAP server it left a copy in the users directory
   before sending it back to the VAX account. Once their account filled
   up, the IMAP server began returning these messages to the sender
   notifying the sender that the message couldnt be delivered to the IMAP
   server because the account was over quota. The sender account
   immediately looped the message back to the IMAP server. The IMAP server
   is configured to also send a message to `postmaster@fnal.gov notifying
   the lab postmaster that a user account was over quota. In a very short
   period of time the email postmaster account on FNAL received thousands
   of mail messages regarding quota problems and many more were waiting in
   queue to be delivered. This slowed down FNAL, the mail gateway.

   Initially, the Email support group tried to eliminate the numerous
   messages in the Postmaster account by deleting them and increasing the
   users mail quota on the IMAP server. To try and break the loop the
   forward on the FNAL mail gateway was changed. When we realized this
   didnt fix the situation we investigated the issue further and found the
   loop was not through the FNAL gateway but between the IMAPserver and
   VAX account. These forwards were deleted and the loop was broken!
   Cleanup of the systems began. The users IMAP account was flushed of
   over 12,000 messages. FNAL had over 6000 messages in one directory
   waiting to be delivered to the postmaster and the postmaster mail
   account had another 6000 messages in it! Removing 6000 files from a
   single directory takes a long time on any system, especially when the
   system is busy doing other things, like delivering email. By Tuesday
   afternoon the mail gateway was moving at a faster pace and by night
   time it was back to normal.

   Tuesday night (around midnight) the IMAP server looked in its mail
   queue for mail it hadnt delivered during the day. Though the
   Postmasters had cleaned up the users area, they overlooked the spool
   area which had thousands of messages regarding the users quota waiting
   to be sent to the Postmaster at FNAL. These messages then started to
   deliver themselves early Wednesday morning! The Postmasters discovered
   this when they came to work in the morning. Mail delivery was
   temporarily stopped on the IMAP server and any messages remaining were
   removed from the spool area. Howevr, many messages had been delivered
   during the night and once again FNAL was slow with mail delivery. The
   Postmasters discussed about turning off mail routing on the gateway to
   speed up the removal of files but it was decided that the lab would be
   without a mail gateway for 2-4 hours. Instead we decided to clean up
   the messages while letting the system continue to route mail even
   though the system was performing slowly. By early Thursday morning the
   mail systems were back to normal.

   Prevention
   What have the Postmasters done to help prevent this in the future?

    1. The Postmasters have met and discussed what happened. We have a
       better understanding of how to try and identify this type of
       problem in the future and prevent it from spreading.
    2. FNAL the mail gateway has been configured to spread mail across
       many subdirectories. This will prevent the build up of thousands of
       messages in one single directory.
    3. Both IMAP servers have had forwarding disabled. Users no longer
       have the ability to set forwarding on the IMAP server. (Mail
       forwarding should be done directly off FNAL.) Forwards that were
       present on the IMAP servers have been deleted.
    4. The user in question had an alias and a username on the mail
       server. The Postmasters are identifying aliases on the mailserver
       to help prevent this.

   What can Users do to help prevent this?
    1. Limit the number of active mail accounts!
    2. If you must set a forward on systems where you get mail, please
       forward all mail on systems you wont read mail on to the mail
       gateway, FNAL. Set your forward on FNAL to point to the system
       where you plan on reading mail.
    3. Keep the same username across systems. If the user in question had
       the same username the mail systems would have immediately
       identified the loop and prevented it!
