http://www.geo.nsf.gov/adgeo/geo2000.htm

   [spacer.gif] [spacer.gif] [spacer.gif] [spacer.gif] [spacer.gif]
   [spacer.gif] [spacer.gif]
   Geo Home Geoscience Staff Site Map and Search Contact Webmasters
   www.nsf.gov
   Atmospheric Sciences Earth Sciences Ocean Sciences

   Geosciences Beyond 2000

   About the Directorate About the Directorate
   Overview
   Vacancies
   Directorate Activities Directorate Activities
   Advisory Committee
   Interdisciplinary
   International
   Initiatives
   Budget
   Initiatives Initiatives
   GEO 2000
   GEO DIversity
   GEO ITR
   GEO NANOTECHNOLOGY
   International
   GEO Education
   Funding Funding
   Opportunities
   Proposal Information
   Dates and Deadlines
   Awards Search
   What is Geoscience? What is Geoscience?
   Important Announcments Important Announcements
   Research Highlights Research Highlights
   Share Research Results

   T he National Science Foundation's Directorate for Geosciences (GEO)
   has completed a major long-range geo 2000 summary cover planning effort
   to develop a vision of the cutting-edge issues for the geosciences
   during the first decade of the 21st century. The focus of NSF
   Geosciences Beyond 2000: Understanding and Predicting Earth's
   Environment and Habitability is to develop a comprehensive view of the
   sciences for planet Earth and the scope of programs and activities that
   GEO plans to address during the period 2001 to 2010. The plan
   identifies key scientific areas and outlines the balance between
   research (science and facilities); education and outreach activities;
   the required enabling technologies and facilities; and the organization
   and management strategies suited to achieve the vision.

   This effort was chaired by Dr. Robert Corell, former Assistant Director
   for Geosciences. The documents were prepared under the aegis of the NSF
   Advisory Committee for the Geosciences in conjunction with a select
   working group and contributions from the Divisions of Atmospheric,
   Earth and Ocean Sciences. Draft versions of NSF Geosciences Beyond 2000
   were extensively discussed at Town Meetings at a number of professional
   society meetings.

   The full document and a summary may be accessed below. Hard copies of
   either version may be obtained from the Geosciences Directorate.
   Comments are welcomed. Please send them to tspence@nsf.gov with the
   subject “GEO2000.”

                              GEO 2000 Summary:

                      [.rtf document] | [html document]
                            GEO 2000 Full Report

  NSF Celebrating 50 Years Directorate for Geosciences, NSF
  4201 Wilson Boulevard, Room 705N, Arlington, Virginia, 22230
  Tel: 703.292.8500 | FAX: 703.292.9042                           Last Modified:
                                                              Jan 7, 2002
                                                              NSF Privacy Policy
