http://www.alrb.ca.gov/mainpages/home2.html

                                    ALRB

   Latest Developments *** Regulatory Hearing February 6 - Notice and Text
   of Proposed Regulatory Action *** Board Decision - Vanderham Dairy, 28
   ALRB No. 1 *** Legislation - SB 1198 *** Case Digest - 2001 Supplement

   [feathered.jpg]

     The California Agricultural Labor Relations Act became effective on
     August 28, 1975. It was enacted during a time when agricultural
     labor disputes had created unstable and potentially violent
     conditions in the state which posed a threat to California's
     agricultural economy. The purpose of the Agricultural Labor
     Relations Act is to ensure peace in the fields of California by
     guaranteeing justice for all agricultural workers and stability in
     agricultural labor relations. The Act seeks to achieve these ends by
     providing orderly processes for protecting, implementing, and
     enforcing the respective rights and responsibilities of employees,
     employers and labor organizations in their relations with each
     other.

     The agency created to implement this Act is the Agricultural Labor
     Relations Board. Within its statutory assignment, the ALRB has two
     principal functions:
    1. To determine and implement, through secret ballot elections, the
       right of agricultural employees to choose whether or not they wish
       to be represented by a labor organization for the purpose of
       collective bargaining with their employer; and
    2. To prevent and remedy certain kinds of conduct, called unfair labor
       practices, on the part of both employers and labor organizations,
       which, the Act declares, are destructive of the rights of
       self-organization and collective bargaining.


   For a complete description of the ALRB, click here.

                               REGISTER TO VOTE

   February 19, 2002, is the last day to register to vote for the March 5,
   2002 Gubernatorial Primary Election. To register to vote or for
   additional information, visit the Vote America web site at
   www.voteamerica.ca.gov, or call 1-800-345-VOTE.
