http://secstate.wa.gov/news/news_release.asp?news_id=150

                        Washington Secretary of State


   Home
   Overview
   Archives
   Corporations
   Elections
   Special Programs - ACP, Apostilles, Charities, EA, Inititatives, Medals
   of Merit & Valor, Productivity Board, Oral History, State Seal, State
   Flag
   Voter Services
   News Releases
   Links

   [go.gif]-Submit

                              Register & Vote!

                                    space

                                                    [USEMAP:buttons_1.gif]
   space
      space

       County Auditors and Secretary of State Preview Voting Machines

   NEWS RELEASE
   Issued: January 29, 2002
   Voters in three Washington counties will have the option to cast
   binding electronic votes for the first time in state history.
   This is a valuable opportunity for both elections administrators and
   voters, said Secretary of State Sam Reed. Technology is advancing. The
   State of Washington should be looking ahead, planning, and pushing the
   envelope. This election is a first step.
   Cowlitz County Auditor Kris Swanson, Pierce County Auditor Cathy
   Pearsall-Stipek, Snohomish County Auditor Bob Terwilliger, and
   Washington Secretary of State Sam Reed today previewed the electronic
   voting machines to be used in the February 5, 2002 Special Election.
   Next month, those three counties in the State of Washington will offer
   voters the chance to use Direct Recording Electronics to cast their
   ballots. In two counties, Snohomish and Cowlitz, voters will use true
   touch-screen voting machines. The screen will prompt voters and walk
   them through the ballot. Pierce County will offer a similar electronic
   voting machine that looks like a touch-screen but also utilizes a
   mechanical component. (See below for vendor names, web site addresses,
   and additional information.)
   The County Auditors are really carrying the weight with this project by
   working with staff and voters to make it happen, said Reed. It is a
   first for Washington. Without their commitment and hard work, this
   project would not be possible.
   This new technology allows the voter to cast a ballot electronically
   while maintaining privacy in vote recording.
   These electronic voting machines, which weve provisionally certified
   for use next month, have a proven record around the country, said Reed.
   We know these machines protect voter secrecy. We know they accurately
   record every vote. Ultimately, this technology will help those with
   disabilities by allowing them to vote more easily, and, in some cases,
   without assistance for the first time.
   During his term, Secretary Reed hopes to improve voting equipment with
   technology that is simpler for consumers to use, more convenient, and
   clearly records voter intent.
   This is the 21st Century. Technology in Washington State must remain on
   the cutting edge, said Reed. Our goal is to lead the nation in
   elections administration and ultimately voter turnout.
   Vendor Information:
   Cowlitz County
   Elections System & Software
   Product: iVotronic
   www.essvote.com/main.html
   Pierce County
   Hart Intercivic
   Product: eslate
   www.hartic.com
   Snohomish County
   Sequoia Voting Systems
   Product: AVC Edge
   www.sequoiavote.com

                                    -30-


   Top
      Back

               Home  |  Overview  |  Archives  |  Corporations
   Elections  |  Special Programs  |  News Releases  |  Voter Services  |
                                    Links
