http://wsom.nws.noaa.gov/manual/CHAPTERC/NC490002.htm

   NWS Director letterhead

   O: All Holders of Operations Manual

   SUBJECT: Transmittal Memorandum for Operations Manual Issuance

   1. Material Transmitted:

   WSOM Chapter C-49, Warning Coordination and Hazard Awareness Program.

   2. Summary:

   This chapter establishes policy and responsibility for managing the
   Warning Coordination and Hazard Awareness (WCHA) program. Significant
   changes include:

   a. Adding the National Centers for Environmental Prediction to the WCHA
   program.

   b. Removing all guidance concerning modernization and restructuring of
   the National Weather Service.

   c. Moving the explanation for the Integrated Warning Program to
   appendix A.

   d. Modifying the annual report to better reflect the goals stated in
   the Strategic Plan (appendix B).

   3. Effect on Other Instructions:

   Supersedes WSOM Chapter C-49, Transmittal Memorandum 91-10, dated
   August 7, 1991.

   John J. Kelly, Jr

   [director_footer.gif]
     __________________________________________________________________

   Issue Date Org. Code NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE

                        Operations Manual
                                                Part Chap
   1/14/2000  W/OM11
   C          49

   WARNING COORDINATION AND HAZARD AWARENESS PROGRAM

   Table of Contents Page

   1. Purpose 2

   2. Background 2

   3. Organizational Responsibilities 3

   3.1 Weather Service Headquarters (WSH) 3

   3.2 Regional Headquarters 3

   3.3 National Centers for Environmental Prediction

   (NCEP) 3

   3.4 Weather Forecast Offices (WFO) 3

   4. Program Development and Maintenance 4

   4.1 Hazards Risk Assessment 4

   4.2 NWS Readiness 4

   4.3 Community Preparedness 5

   4.3.1 Hazard and Vulnerability Analyses 5

   4.3.2 Coordinating Integrated Warning

   Program Roles within the Hazards

   Community 5

   4.3.3 Development and Maintenance of Reliable Dissemination and
   Communications

   Systems 5

   4.3.4 Obtaining Reliable and Adequate Ground

   Truth Reports 6

   4.3.5 Improving Partner Response 6

   4.3.6 Improving Public Response 6

   4.3.7 Hazard Mitigation 7

   5. Partnerships 7

   6. Documentation 7

   7. Reports 7

   Appendices:

   A The Integrated Warning Program A-1

   B Annual WCHA Report to WSH B-1

   1. Purpose. This chapter establishes policy for the National Weather
   Service (NWS) Warning Coordination and Hazard Awareness (WCHA) program.
   The program goal is to reduce fatalities, injuries, and property damage
   due to weather, water, and climate events and civil emergencies
   affected by weather, water, and climate conditions.

   2. Background. A successful WCHA program supports what social
   scientists have termed the integrated warning program. The integrated
   warning program combines three equally important components:

   • Detection and Warning,

   • Communication and Dissemination, and

   • Response.

   Appendix A contains further discussion regarding the integrated warning
   program.

   Partners with the NWS in the integrated warning program include the
   following hazards community members:

   • Federal, state, and local agencies;

   • emergency managers or coordinators;

   • media;

   • non-government organizations, such as the American Red Cross;

   • amateur radio groups;

   • volunteer groups;

   • businesses; and

   • the private sector.

   The WCHA program involves coordination with all NWS partners in the
   hazards community to:

   • create a viable integrated warning program;

   • support the consistent delivery of critical information to the
   public; and

   • support preparedness, response, recovery, and mitigation activities
   as outlined in the Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA) Federal
   Response Plan and similar state and local plans.

   Outreach activities in support of the WCHA program are included in the
   NWS Annual Public Outreach Plan, Weather Service Operations Manual
   Chapter (WSOM) C-50, Appendix A.

   3. Organizational Responsibilities.

   3.1 Weather Service Headquarters (WSH). WSH is responsible for
   identifying operational requirements, establishing policy, and securing
   resources to support the WCHA program. WSH is also responsible for
   establishing partnerships within the hazards community at the national
   level and in coordinating outreach activities in support of the WCHA
   program involving multiple regions and/or national centers.

   3.2 Regional Headquarters. The Regional Headquarters are responsible
   for implementing WCHA policy and enhancing or modifying policy in
   coordination with WSH through Regional Operations Manual Letters or
   other directives. The Regional Headquarters facilitate field office
   WCHA outreach activities while coordinating innovative outreach
   efforts, sharing successful programs with other regions, and providing
   guidance and supplemental resource material to their Warning
   Coordination Meteorologists (WCM). Regional Headquarters maintain
   partnerships at the regional level with other environmentally attuned
   agencies, such as FEMA and the Federal Aviation Administration.

   Regional Headquarters shall identify a Weather Forecast Office (WFO)
   for each state to coordinate state level WCHA program activities. The
   office is known as a State Liaison Office (SLO). The SLO may delegate
   liaison duties for individual programs to other WFOs as necessary,
   based on the geographical location of the state's program coordinator.
   For example, if the state Emergency Alert System (EAS) chairperson
   resides in a community outside of the SLO county warning area (CWA),
   the SLO may delegate the NWS EAS liaison duties to the WFO serving that
   community.

   3.3 National Centers for Environmental Prediction (NCEP). Directors of
   the National Centers are responsible for incorporating WCHA policy in
   their programs. Each center shall identify one person to coordinate
   WCHA activities. The Tropical Prediction Center and the Storm
   Prediction Center have a WCM position to manage their WCHA programs.

   3.4 Weather Forecast Offices (WFO). NWS forecast offices are
   responsible for implementing the WCHA program within their area of
   warning and forecast responsibility. While partnership building and
   outreach are responsibilities of all staff members at a WFO, overall
   responsibility within the WFO rests with the Meteorologist in Charge
   (MIC) and the WCM. One of the WCM's primary responsibilities is the
   office WCHA program and related activities. Service Hydrologists shall
   support the office WCHA through liaison with hydrologic customers and
   other members of the hazards community concerned with water related
   issues.

   4. Program Development and Maintenance. Developing and maintaining a
   successful WCHA program begins with an analysis of the hazards
   threatening the area of responsibility and the degree of vulnerability
   of a community. A successful program depends on the awareness and
   operational readiness of the NWS staff and the level of preparedness in
   the community.

   4.1 Hazards Risk Assessment. The staff at NWS field offices must be
   familiar with the climatology and the weather and water related hazards
   in their areas of responsibility. Operational staff shall remain
   current on statistical analyses and case studies of local hazards and
   knowledgeable of specific risk areas through local training activities
   managed by the science and operations officer (SOO), the service
   hydrologist (SH), and the WCM. Community outreach activities managed
   and conducted by the WCM shall include communicating meteorologically
   and climatologically based risk assessment information to local
   officials for use in mitigation efforts.

   4.2 NWS Readiness. Maintaining an effective warning posture depends on
   a staff which is proficient, ready, and situationally aware.
   Preparation is essential for successful handling of hazardous weather,
   water, and climate events and requests for assistance in other types of
   civil emergencies. Equipment and systems must be functioning according
   to specifications, and operations staff must be familiar with hazard
   specific warning operations and back-up procedures.

   Station management is responsible for ensuring the readiness of office
   systems and staff through activities, such as operational readiness
   checks, seasonal internal drills, and postmortems.

   Continuous improvement is everyone's responsibility. Improved services
   result from internal and external evaluation of performance. Following
   significant events, WCMs should contact affected partners in the
   hazards community to see if their expectations were realized. Findings
   and recommendations shall be shared with the staff to seek
   opportunities for improvement and to highlight actions that were done
   well.

   WSOM Chapter A-63 outlines overall service evaluation policy. WSOM
   Chapter J-02 provides policy and guidelines for notifying WSH of
   significant events, conducting post-storm data acquisition activities,
   and post-event service assessments.

   4.3 Community Preparedness. Within each WFO's area of responsibility,
   the WCM is responsible for managing community outreach activities and
   maintaining partnership programs focused at raising the level of
   weather, water, and climate related hazard awareness and preparedness.
   The WCM should involve other staff members in outreach activities to
   provide training in partnering, public speaking, and other WCM
   activities, to share some of the workload and to provide opportunities
   for direct customer contact.

   4.3.1 Hazard and Vulnerability Analyses. The WCM and SH shall work with
   emergency managers and local officials to assist in defining what
   hazards they should be prepared for and what populations are vulnerable
   to specific hazards. An important part of the local hazard and
   vulnerability analysis is defining critical thresholds for action by
   local decision makers. This leads to a more timely and effective
   response by officials and the public.

   4.3.2 Coordinating Integrated Warning Program Roles within the Hazards
   Community. The WCM and SH shall assist members of the hazards community
   to understand their role in the integrated warning program and to
   support a consistent delivery of critical information and advice to the
   public. This coordination enables the NWS to understand the critical
   information requirements of the various partners in the warning
   process. This coordination also enables our partners to understand what
   information is available from the NWS and how best to use it.

   4.3.3 Development and Maintenance of Reliable Dissemination and
   Communications Systems. WCMs shall make the promotion and expansion of
   dissemination and communication systems a high priority. The two-way
   sharing of information between the NWS and members of the hazards
   community is critical for an effective warning program. Hazardous
   weather warnings and follow-up products are ineffective unless they are
   reliably received and responded to in a timely manner.

   The WCM should work to develop partnerships to link local and state
   communications systems for the automated sharing of critical graphic
   and alphanumeric data. Opportunities for resource sharing shall be
   explored, such as with local Amateur Radio Emergency Services and Radio
   Amateur Civil Emergency Service amateur radio clubs. The WCM shall also
   take the lead in widely promoting the use of existing dissemination
   systems, including the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
   (NOAA) Weather Radio (NWR), EAS, the Emergency Managers Weather
   Information Network (EMWIN), the NOAA Weather Wire Service (NWWS), and
   the National Warning System (NAWAS).

   To ensure timely and reliable dissemination of critical information,
   NWS field office management must ensure existing systems are properly
   tested and maintained. Working with our partners, innovative
   dissemination methods shall be explored to expand coverage and provide
   redundant capabilities. These may include EMWIN retransmission, use of
   Internet Web sites, and use of non-NWS operated personal communication
   systems.

   4.3.4 Obtaining Reliable and Adequate Ground Truth Reports. The WCM
   shall work with local authorities and emergency managers to assist in
   organizing, developing, recruiting, training and maintaining well
   managed spotter networks at the county/parish and local level.
   Designated staff shall be incorporated in efforts to expand volunteer
   weather observer networks for obtaining real-time ground truth reports.
   Timely and reliable observations from trained volunteers or
   professional staffs are a key element in the warning decision-making
   process.

   4.3.5 Improving Partner Response. NWS offices shall conduct training
   sessions with members of the hazards community to assist them in
   learning what information is available and how best to integrate it
   into decision processes. Partner response can be enhanced when they
   know how best to use NWS products and when drills are conducted to test
   operational readiness.

   Before each hazardous weather season, NWS offices shall work with
   members of the hazards community to conduct appropriate community and
   statewide drills. Drills should test all aspects of the integrated
   warning program from detection and warning, through communication, to
   response. The media should be encouraged to disseminate test warnings,
   and organizations, such as emergency operations centers and school
   districts, should be encouraged to implement their preparedness and
   response plans.

   4.3.6 Improving Public Response. NWS offices shall promote public
   education campaigns to inform citizens of the threats in their area and
   what safety actions should be taken if a warning is received or severe
   weather is observed. Households, businesses, critical care facilities,
   places of worship and local communities should be encouraged to develop
   preparedness plans for identified risks incorporating practices
   promoted in FEMA, American Red Cross and NWS literature.

   4.3.7 Hazard Mitigation. NWS personnel shall work with state and local
   officials, non-government organizations, the media, and the private
   sector to provide meteorological assistance to those seeking to build
   more disaster resistant communities. Property losses due to natural
   hazards can be reduced if states, communities, businesses, and the
   public look for ways to better prepare for and avoid hazards endemic to
   their geographical location.

   5. Partnerships. The hazards community must work together to ensure a
   viable integrated warning program is maintained. Because the job is too
   big for any one organization to accomplish, the key to success is the
   creation and nurturing of partnerships among the hazards community
   toward a common goal. The areas most fruitful for partnership
   development include spotter networks, data collection, dissemination
   and communication, partner and public education, hazard awareness and
   preparedness material development and distribution, and mitigation
   activities.

   6. Documentation. Each WFO shall have a documentation system that
   reflects the state of the hazards community in the office warning and
   forecast area. Documentation provides operational continuity and a
   reference for new personnel. A basic system consists of one file (paper
   or electronic) for each county or parish and one file for each
   organization the office works with at multi-county or state levels.
   Appropriate maps, lists of key contacts, and the operational status of
   each organization shall be maintained.

   7. Reports. WFOs shall submit WCHA reports at such times and contain
   such information as specified by their Regional Headquarters. The
   Regional Headquarters shall submit an annual WCHA report containing the
   information outlined in appendix B. Annual report submissions shall
   conform to the annual report process for the NWS annual operating plan.

   THE INTEGRATED WARNING PROGRAM

   The Integrated Warning Program was first developed by social scientists
   doing research on warning systems. Two excellent sources on warning
   systems and societal response include:

   Mileti and Sorenson, J.H., 1990, Communication of Emergency Public
   Warnings--A Social Science Perspective and State-of-the-Art Assessment,
   Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, Tennessee.

   Mileti, Dennis, S. 1999, Disasters by Design, National Academy of
   Sciences, Joseph Henry Press, Washington, D.C.

   There are three critical elements required to reduce or eliminate the
   impact on people and property from any hazard. First is the ability to
   forecast, detect and warn. Second, information about the event must be
   clearly communicated to those at risk in a timely and understandable
   manner. Third, those at risk must take appropriate action, often in a
   predetermined or learned manner. The integrated warning program should
   be supported by staff feedback and quality assurance principles to
   ensure a viable program.

   • Forecast, Detection and Warning. This element includes the
   traditional NWS role of examining data and forecasting a significant
   weather, water, or climate event. Detection considers the data from
   remote sensing devices such as radar and satellite, on-site observing
   devices such as river and rain gauges and automated flood warning
   systems, and eyewitness reports.

   • Communication and Information Dissemination. Communication is
   complete only after the information is received and understood. As with
   detection, people involved in the WCHA program need to know the process
   and how multilevel systems reach the user.

   • Public Response. The warning message by itself does not stimulate an
   immediate protective response. Normally, people in a warned area will
   first assess their personal risk. The additional information required
   before they take action depends on the content and clarity of the
   initial message and the credibility of the issuing organization. The
   potential for individuals to act will be markedly increased if they are
   provided information to assist them in properly defining their risk.

   1. Enhanced Risk Perception. Social scientists have noted that an
   individual's perception of risk will be enhanced if:

   • warning messages are issued frequently,

   • warnings are delivered by multiple credible sources,

   • warning messages are consistent,

   • the basis for the warning is clear,

   • suggested response actions are included.

   In order to further enhance response, the NWS adopted a multi-tier
   warning concept to heighten emphasis on the event as the likelihood of
   the event increases. Paralleling a "ready, set, go" theme, the NWS
   issues outlooks, watches, and warnings to escalate the flow of critical
   information. The intent of each product is outlined below.

   • Outlook indicates a hazardous weather, water, or climate event may
   develop.

   • Watch is used when the risk of the event has increased significantly,
   but its occurrence, location, and timing is still uncertain.

   • Warning is issued when an event is imminent, occurring, or has a high
   probability of occurrence.

   2. Staff Feedback and Quality Assurance. NWS personnel working in the
   WCHA program must share their knowledge of the customers' systems,
   procedures, capabilities, and requirements with their local office
   staff. Other local staff experienced and familiar with the program
   should also share their knowledge. This will help ensure the local
   office is responsive and sensitive to the needs of those involved in
   the total warning effort.

   Another valuable source of feedback are service assessments. They
   provide insight regarding possible conflicts in information, areas of
   responsibility, communications, public response, and evaluation of the
   WCHA program. Depending on the impact of the weather or water event,
   this assessment may be simply a matter of contacting affected county
   and local officials and partners to assess the quality of the NWS
   service and determine possible improvement.

   ANNUAL WCHA REPORT TO WSH

   Information in this report will be used to assess how we are building
   and nurturing partnerships vital to our mission. The information also
   will demonstrate the level of outreach required to maintain a viable
   warning coordination and hazard awareness program.

   Region Date: 9/30/

     * Percentage of operational shifts worked by WCM
     * Percentage of county/parish emergency management officials
       contacted at least once during the past fiscal year concerning WCHA
       activities
     * Percentage of counties/parishes with trained spotters (Severe
       Storm, Flood/Flash Flood, Winter, Hurricane, etc.)
       Total number of trained spotters
       Number of spotters trained this year
       Number of new spotters this year

     * Number of public safety presentations
       Total in attendance

     * Number of states conducting statewide awareness campaigns in the
       past fiscal year
       Severe Wx Flood/Flash Flood Hurricane _
       Winter Other What type?

     * Number of offices conducting external drills
       Severe Wx Flood/Flash Flood Hurricane
       Winter Other What type?
       _

     * Number of offices conducting in-house drills on:
       Tornado/Severe Wx Flood/Flash Flood
       Winter Storm Hurricane
       Hazardous Mat. Civil Emerg.
       Aircraft Accident Service Backup
       Comms Failure Power Failure
       Tsunami

     * Number of StormReady Communities
       New StormReady Communities
       Percentage of WFOs with at least one StormReady
       Community

     * Number of NOAA/FEMA courses conducted:

   Creating and Maintaining Spotter Groups

   Hazardous Weather and Flood Preparedness

   Warning Coordination

   Hurricane Preparedness

   Total attendance at all courses

     * Number of face-to-face media contacts (includes NWS visits to
       media, media visits to NWS, media attendance at NWS workshops)
     * Percentage of WFOs with dedicated two-way links to emergency
       managers

   NAWAS ___________

   Radio Systems

   Hotlines

   LDAD links to state networks

   LDAD links to local/district/regional networks (e.g., flood control
   districts)
