http://cox.house.gov/press/columns/2002/wsjlowerdebtceiling.htm

                               [frameban.jpg]



                                                       Return to Home Page

                                                            About Rep. Cox
                                               Legislative Accomplishments
                                                            News and Views
                                                       Contacting Rep. Cox
                                                           At Your Service
                                                The House Policy Committee
                                                         The 47th District
                                              Rep. Cox's Television Report

   [en00500_.gif]-Submit
   Photo Gallery

                               [redcross.gif]
   The latest information on the War on Terrorism.
   [flagone.jpg] Order a Flag

                           Lower the Debt Ceiling

                           The Wall Street Journal

                              January 15, 2002

   By Christopher Cox
   Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill has quietly asked Congress to raise the
   statutory ceiling on federal debt for the first time since 1997. The
   move has brought partisan catcalls about Mr. Bush's alleged
   mismanagement of the economy, even though the small deficit that may be
   projected for fiscal 2002 is not the reason we're bumping into the debt
   ceiling.

   And most of the news coverage has only further confused the issue. The
   Los Angeles Times headlined "New Deficits to Force Boost of Debt
   Ceiling." Reuters stated that the Treasury had asked Congress "to raise
   the limit on the public debt."

   Let's take this one from the beginning: Congress doesn't need to raise
   the limit on the public debt. In fact, we should lower it.

   Over the last four fiscal years, the federal government has reduced the
   public debt by nearly half a trillion dollars. With a 2001 surplus that
   is the second largest in history, this will more than cushion any
   deficits brought by war and terrorism.

   So why the fuss about raising the debt ceiling? The reason is that the
   law describing the debt limit includes not only public debt, but also
   intragovernment obligations. Various accrued liabilities (which could,
   of course, occasion future taxes or borrowing) are lumped together with
   money that the government has actually borrowed.

   The largest of these intragovernment obligations is the Social Security
   Trust Fund, which stands at over $1.2 trillion. In fiscal 2001, the
   trust fund grew by $163 billion, representing the surplus of Social
   Security taxes over benefit payments for the year. Not a small
   distortion in the debt numbers -- and it's only going to get worse as
   Social Security payroll tax collections continue to grow.

   Since 1997, Social Security taxes have grown by 30%. Despite the
   recession, receipts are expected to be even higher in 2002. Because
   these payroll taxes are required by law to be invested in U.S.
   obligations, they're pushing us rapidly against the debt ceiling. The
   growing Social Security surpluses are, ironically, adding pressure for
   an increase in the ceiling for debt.

   The problem could be fixed fairly easily if Congress simply guaranteed
   that 100% of all Social Security tax collections would be put in the
   trust fund. We could then abandon the charade of subjecting Social
   Security to the debt ceiling. If we were to do this, we could actually
   reduce the debt ceiling, in recognition of our accomplishment in paying
   down a half-trillion dollars in publicly held debt.

   This would be good for Social Security and, more importantly, for the
   system's beneficiaries. It would make explicit that the paper in the
   Social Security Trust Fund is a receipt for contributions made, not
   something granted or withheld at the whim of Congress. It would remove
   Social Security somewhat from its usual role as a pawn of politics. And
   it would permit the imposition of greater fiscal discipline on the
   federal government, by locking in the gains we've made over the last
   four years.

   At a minimum, the debt limit should be lowered to prevent future
   spenders from exceeding the peak level of public debt that was reached
   in 1997. But an even lower limit could easily be accommodated.

   For the sake of argument, let's have a look at the worst-case scenario.
   According to the deficit estimates calculated by the Democratic staff
   of the Senate Budget Committee, the Republican stimulus plan, war on
   terrorism and ongoing recession might produce deficits over the next
   four years of up to $327 billion. Still, in other words, significantly
   less than the debt that has been paid off over the last four years
   ending Sep. 30.

   Even using these gloomy forecasts, Congress could justify reducing the
   ceiling on public debt to as low as $3.75 trillion. (The limit stands
   at $5.95 trillion today, but the larger figure is not directly
   comparable because it covers both public debt and intragovernment
   debt.) This should last indefinitely: The Senate Budget Committee's
   scenario, worst case though it is, posits surpluses beginning in five
   years that will total $685 billion by 2011.

   The debt ceiling as currently devised doesn't need to be increased
   because of deficit spending, or the Bush tax cuts, or even terrorism
   and recession. It's the growing trust-fund surpluses (chiefly Social
   Security) that have prompted the Treasury's request. A properly defined
   debt limit doesn't need to be increased at all. It's time to lower the
   debt ceiling -- and to add one more incentive for fiscal responsibility
   in Washington.
