http://www.foia.ucia.gov/privacy.asp

   Central Intelligence Agency, Director of Central Intelligence Skip main
    CIA navigation. Targets Freedom of Information Act main navigation.

   CIA Home | Notices | Privacy | Security | Contact Us | Site Map | Index
                                  | Search

                                      .
        Electronic Reading Room (Freedom of Information Act) heading,
   superimposed on photo of American flag with the word Declassified over
                                    that
       Field of 5 stars Document search. Click for more search options
                        Click to submit search query.


                     Skip FOIA main navigation. Overview
                     How to file a FOIA Request
                     How to file a Privacy Act Request
                     Frequently Requested Records
                     Annual Reports
                     Your Rights
                     Special Collections

                            Privacy and Security

                             Public Service Site

     The Electronic Reading Room is provided as a public service by the
    Central Intelligence Agency and its Office of Information Management.
    This site provides basic guidance to assist members of the public in
      exercising their rights and is not intended to be a comprehensive
       treatment of the complex issues associated with the Freedom of
      Information Act (FOIA) and the Electronic FOIA Amendments of 1996
   (E-FOIA), the Privacy Act (PA), and Executive Order 12958 (EO). We have
     provided, however, the complete text of these laws as links in the
               relevant sections for the public's convenience.

                      Using Information From This Site

   Information presented on this WWW site is considered public information
   and may be distributed or copied. Use of appropriate byline, photo, or
                         image credits is requested.

                     Information Collection at This Site

   For site management, information is collected for statistical purposes.
      This government computer system uses software programs to create
   summary statistics, which are used for such purposes as assessing what
   information is of most and least interest, determining technical design
    specifications, and identifying systems performance or problem areas.

                              Monitoring Usage

     For site security purposes and to ensure that this service remains
       available to all users, this government computer system employs
    software programs to monitor network traffic to identify unauthorized
    attempts to upload or change information, or otherwise cause damage.

                          Preserving Privacy Rights

   Except for authorized law enforcement investigations, no other attempts
    are made to identify individual users or their usage habits. Raw data
      logs are used for no other purposes and are scheduled for regular
        destruction in accordance with National Archives and Records
                      Administration General Schedules.

                      Unauthorized Changes or Additions

    Unauthorized attempts to upload information or change information on
    this service are strictly prohibited and may be punishable under the
      Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986 and the national Information
   Infrastructure Protection Act. While the CIA exercises every effort to
    ensure the security of this site and the accuracy of its information,
     we cannot be held accountable for unauthorized changes because the
              Internet is an inherently unsecured environment.


                     Photograph of a Bald Eagle's head.

               Footer image, showing portion of American flag.

                             Privacy & Security
