http://gus.arlhq.noaa.gov/st_plan.html

   Air Resources Laboratory
   NOAA Research
   Home
   What's New?
   Strategic Plan
     * Overview
     * Goal
     * Organization
     * Sponsors/Clients
     * Themes
         ______________________________________________________________

     * Weather and Air Quality
     * Coastal
     * Climate
     * Technology Development and Transfer
         ______________________________________________________________

   Research
   Organization
   Publications
   Education
   FAQ Sheet
   Seminars
   ARL History
   READY
   Data
   Acronyms
   Search
   [space.gif]

                               Strategic Plan

                               of the NOAA/OAR

                          AIR RESOURCES LABORATORY

                           1315 East West Highway
                           Silver Spring, MD 20910

  Research on the atmosphere as a component of the earth environment system

                                      .

   OVERVIEW: The Air Resources Laboratory (ARL) conducts research on
   processes that relate to air quality and climate, concentrating on the
   transport, dispersion, transformation, and removal of trace gases and
   aerosols, their climatic and ecological influences, and exchange
   between the atmosphere and biological and non-biological surfaces. The
   time frame of interest ranges from minutes and hours to that of the
   global climate. Research in all of these areas involves physical and
   numerical studies, leading to the development of air quality simulation
   models. The Laboratory provides scientific and technical advice to
   elements of NOAA and other Government agencies on atmospheric science,
   environmental problems, emergency assistance, and climate change.

   ARL conducts purposeful research to address specific needs, either in
   the collaborating line offices of NOAA or in ARL's partnering agencies.
   In particular, ARL conducts research (basic as well as applied) as
   needed to answer questions of urgency related to the atmospheric
   aspects of regulatory controls and policy, public health and safety,
   and the environment.

   ARL gives special emphasis to coupling modeling with monitoring. To
   this end, ARL operates a research monitoring network with several
   components, each serving the needs of an evolving modeling and data
   interpretation capability. ARL's meteorological and air quality models
   will be driven by data derived from advanced networks such as these,
   and will be adjusted according to observations of key diagnostic
   variables such as air quality and atmospheric deposition rates.

   The applications of these modeling capabilities range from current
   assessment, typically using climatological or representative inputs, to
   short-term prediction, based on the use of meteorological forecast
   data. The current state of this science is that assessment and
   predictive applications require different mixes of the processes to be
   considered, and it is anticipated that future products will retain much
   of this specialization. In this context, however, there is an
   over-riding recognition of the need for the model products to be as
   simple as satisfies the demands placed on them, while being adequately
   complete in their formulation. Models of both kinds are intended to be
   parsimonious, data assimilative, and regularly benchmarked against
   observations made with coupled observing networks. To this end, the
   organizational components of ARL contribute collaboratively, with
   specialized contributions from the geographically separated ARL
   Divisions.
   (Return to top)

   GOAL: The specific goal of ARL research is to improve and eventually to
   institutionalize both current assessment and future prediction of
   ambient air quality, atmospheric deposition, and related atmospheric
   environmental variables, with full allowance for the role of
   randomness.
   (Return to top)

   ORGANIZATION: ARL is organized as an array of specialized Divisions
   that work in close collaboration, regardless of their geographic
   separation.

   Headquarters Division, Silver Spring, Maryland: Director - Bruce B.
   Hicks; Deputy Director - Richard S. Artz

   The Headquarters Division concentrates on developing products to
   augment the operational product suites of the NOAA service-oriented
   line offices. In this context, research activities include the
   development of improved dispersion models for emergency response,
   advanced methods for detecting and quantifying climate change, and
   studies of atmospheric wet deposition.

   Atmospheric Sciences Modeling Division, Research Triangle Park, North
   Carolina: Acting Director - William B. Petersen

   This group, the largest within the ARL system, focuses on the
   development of numerical models for predicting air quality and
   atmospheric deposition. The emphasis is on completeness, as is required
   for scenario development and policy applications. The most recent
   product of this intensive model development effort has been the
   MODELS-3 Community Multiscale Air Quality Model (MODELS-3/CMAQ), now
   widely used as a benchmark for developing air quality regulations in
   the USA and in many other countries.

   Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division, Oak Ridge, Tennessee
   : Director - Rayford P. Hosker, Jr.

   Originally prominent as the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion
   Laboratory (ATDL), this Division has extended its formative research
   focus to include atmospheric dry deposition and air-surface exchange in
   general. The work includes consideration of atmospheric behavior in
   complex terrain.

   Field Research Division, Idaho Falls, Idaho: Director - Timothy L.
   Crawford

   This group specializes in field studies designed to test the
   predictions of atmospheric dispersion models, through the use of inert
   atmospheric tracers. In recent years, a new program has grown, focusing
   on the use of small aircraft in geosciences research. In support of
   this work, the group has developed an advanced instrumentation
   development capability whose products now permit use of light aircraft
   in studies of air-sea interaction, for example.

   Special Operations and Research Division, Las Vegas, Nevada: Director -
   Darryl Randerson

   This Division was originally set up to provide meteorological
   (primarily dispersion) expertise in support of test programs conducted
   at the DOE Nevada Test Site. The group now serves as the ARL unit
   actively transferring dispersion products developed within ARL (and
   elsewhere) to the emergency response community. A research program to
   focus on the special air quality concerns of arid environments is now
   in place, as a joint venture with the Cooperative Institute for
   Atmospheric Studies and Terrestrial Applications (CIASTA).

   Surface Radiation Research Branch, Boulder, Colorado: Director - John
   J. DeLuisi

   Much of ARL's developmental activities focus on the behavior of the
   lower atmosphere, where turbulence is a controlling consideration. The
   driving force is solar heating of the surface. This Branch concentrates
   on providing radiation data for model developers and for assimilation
   into their products. The same observations are of direct relevance in
   the context of climate change studies, and of radiation exposure
   regimes. SRRB also operates the national Central UV Calibration
   Facility.
   (Return to top)

   SPONSORS and CLIENTS: ARL conducts research for NOAA and for other
   agencies, on topics of relevance to the NOAA strategic plan.

   ARL conducts research in support of national environmental regulatory
   policy and in support of concerns related to potential detrimental
   effects of changes in the chemical and physical properties of the
   atmosphere on public health and safety, ecosystem viability,
   sustainable development, and international competitiveness. ARL serves
   as a provider of scientific information to the Administration,
   Congress, State and Federal agencies, the public, private industry, and
   the scientific community. ARL strives to be a full-service
   organization, supporting necessary research at selected universities,
   maintaining a long-term monitoring and analysis infrastructure around
   which the research is organized, and representing NOAA and the national
   interest in policy debates and scientific discussions on related
   matters.

   ARL relies upon close relationships with other NOAA organizations,
   especially the NOAA Research Laboratories, Joint Institutes, and Sea
   Grant Colleges. Equally important are the partnerships with other
   agencies -- in practice and by intent, ARL is the major point of
   interaction between NOAA atmospheric research and the related
   informational and scientific requirements of several other Federal
   agencies. In general, NOAA is viewed by these organizations as the
   provider of high-quality and independent advice regarding matters of
   atmospheric transport, dispersion, air quality, and deposition, and ARL
   is perceived to be the agent providing access to this advice.

   Much of the contribution made by ARL can be viewed as providing
   independent atmospheric expertise to assist other agencies in
   fulfilling their own Federal mandates. This provision of scientific
   information and advice to other organizations is an important component
   of NOAA's service function. Financial support for work intended to
   permit another agency to perform its own function, in its own
   jurisdictions, with improved credibility and defensibility, is normally
   provided by the other agency concerned. At this time, the major
   agencies involved are the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the
   Department of Energy (DOE), and the Department of Defense (DOD). ARL is
   roughly equally supported by NOAA, EPA, DOE, and DOD. Support from DOE
   and EPA is focused on specific ARL Divisions. Support from DOD is
   distributed more widely across ARL.

   The Environmental Protection Agency provides almost complete support
   for the ARL team at Research Triangle Park, initially set up
   specifically to provide meteorological expertise and guidance to the
   Public Health Service (the forerunner of the EPA), related to
   atmospheric dispersion and air quality modeling.

   The Department of Energy provides about 10% of the funding for the ARL
   team at Oak Ridge, originally set up to provide a collaborative
   NOAA/DOE capability to address questions on dispersion, deposition and
   air quality of relevance to the DOE Oak Ridge Field Office. DOE also
   provides about 25% of the funding at Idaho Falls for maintenance and
   improvement of emergency assistance services to the Idaho National
   Engineering and Environmental Laboratory (INEEL). DOE provides almost
   all of the funding of the ARL Special Operations and Research Division
   in Las Vegas, to support missions of the DOE Nevada Operations Office.

   NOAA values independence from agencies that are more closely influenced
   by policy and regulatory considerations, and attributes (in part, at
   least) the high quality of its science to the opportunity to conduct
   and promote research programs with longevity and direction largely
   independent of policy and regulatory influences. The NOAA Strategic
   Plan focuses on NOAA's own mission. The activities of ARL contribute to
   the goals of the Strategic Plan, but also interject the requirement to
   consider a higher level of consideration -- NOAA's role as a source of
   atmospheric and aquatic environmental guidance to other elements of
   society and especially to other Federal agencies, independent of their
   respective regulatory and control functions.
   (Return to top)

   ARL THEMES AND MAJOR THEMATIC PROGRAMS:

   ARL science has historically emphasized three area of specialization -
   atmospheric transport and dispersion, physical and chemical mechanisms,
   and air-surface exchange. Recently, recognition of the importance of
   viewing the atmosphere as a part of the overall Earth environment
   system has spawned a new and rapidly evolving specialization in
   multi-media analysis. In other words, we are no longer studying the
   atmosphere alone, but are now also considering the way in which changes
   in the air affect the terrestrial and aquatic biospheres and their
   related resources. This is a return to the origins of this laboratory,
   since now there is indeed a growing need to consider the atmosphere as
   a changing resource on which the surface biosystems must rely. The Air
   Resources Laboratory is thus aptly named.

   These areas of specialization come into play in all of the three
   thematic areas originally identified by the Office of Oceanic and
   Atmospheric Research, under which ARL is organized. These three
   thematic areas are - Weather and Air Quality, Coastal and Marine
   Studies, and Climate.

   In practice, therefore, ARL research activities can be visualized as
   items defining a matrix. In each cell of this matrix, we can identify
   three basic functions of ARL research. The first of these functions is
   to conduct such research as is necessary to understand the problem such
   that adequate models can be developed for purposes of assessment and
   forecasting. (These requirements are fundamentally different. A model
   used for assessment can be exceedingly detailed, but one used for
   forecasting must usually be simplified.) The second function is to
   develop the models suitable for assessment. A third function is to
   condense the science into models adequate for forecasting. These are
   often (but not necessarily) sequential functions in the overall
   evolution of the science and transfer of the results into an
   operational environment.

        SUMMARY OF AREAS OF MAJOR ACTIVITY BY THEMES AND SPECIALTIES.

     Blue (B) indicates a major level of activity, green (G) a moderate
            level of attention, red (R) marginal (or inactive).*

   Weather and Air Quality
   (THEME 1) Coastal
   (THEME 2) Climate
   (THEME 3) Technology Development & Transfer
   (THEME 4)
   Transport and Dispersion
   (specialty 1) 1.1.1 Understanding (B)
   1.1.2 Assessing (B)
   1.1.3 Forecasting (B) 2.1.1 Understanding (G)
   2.1.2 Assessing (G)
   2.1.3 Forecasting (G) 3.1.1 Understanding (G)
   3.1.2 Assessing (R)
   3.1.3 Forecasting (R) 4.1.1 Experimental (B)
   4.1.2 Modeling (B)
   Physical and Chemical Mechanisms
   (specialty 2) 1.2.1 Understanding (B)
   1.2.2 Assessing (B)
   1.2.3 Forecasting (B) 2.2.1 Understanding (G)
   2.2.2 Assessing (G)
   2.2.3 Forecasting (R) 3.2.1 Understanding (B)
   3.2.2 Assessing (G)
   3.2.3 Forecasting (R) 4.2.1 Experimental (B)
   4.2.2 Modeling (G)
   Air-Surface Exchange
   (specialty 3) 1.3.1 Understanding (B)
   1.3.2 Assessing (B)
   1.3.3 Forecasting (G) 2.3.1 Understanding (G)
   2.3.2 Assessing (R)
   2.3.3 Forecasting (R) 3.3.1 Understanding (B)
   3.3.2 Assessing (G)
   3.3.3 Forecasting (R) 4.3.1 Experimental (B)
   4.3.2 Modeling (G)
   Multi-Media Integration
   (specialty 4) 1.4.1 Understanding (B)
   1.4.2 Assessing (G)
   1.4.3 Forecasting (R) 2.4.1 Understanding (G)
   2.4.2 Assessing (G)
   2.4.3 Forecasting (G) 3.4.1 Understanding (R)
   3.4.2 Assessing (R)
   3.4.3 Forecasting (R) 4.4.1 Experimental (R)
   4.4.2 Modeling (G)

   * The levels of activity do not reflect any assumed level of importance
   of the item, but instead indicate the current state the science and the
   amount of attention that ARL is presently devoting. It must also be
   recognized that ARL is far from being the only organization addressing
   these matters, and hence the ARL contribution must be weighed in
   comparison with other work.

   Within the Technology Development and Transfer theme, these functional
   breakdowns are less convenient. A more appropriate scheme is to
   consider the activities in the sense of the time frame to which they
   correspond, or to the kind of activity that is involved
   (experimentation, or modeling). The tabular breakdown reflects this
   preference.
   (Return to top)

   INTERNATIONAL

   ARL participates in a wide variety of multi-national activities,
   ranging from formal associations with the World Meteorological
   Organization to international scientific endeavors. In general, the Air
   Resources Laboratory participates in International activities as
   required to accomplish it's mission and as appropriate to further
   scientific research related to the accomplishment of this mission.

   ARL policy is governed by the recognition that the air quality of the
   United States is slowly improving, in response to regulatory actions
   and the imposition of emission controls, while that of other parts of
   the world continues to deteriorate. The atmospheric environment of
   North America is feared to become increasingly susceptible to effects
   of emissions from locations over which the United States can exert no
   direct control. It is the goal of ARL international activities,
   therefore,
     * to monitor such aspects of the global atmospheric environment so as
       to reveal the response of the atmosphere to changes in emissions in
       distant places,
     * to construct integrated models capable of predicting future
       changes, and to quantify the effects of these changes on North
       America, and
     * to encourage the development of local capabilities to provide
       relevant data.

   The atmospheric monitoring component of these activities is viewed as
   an extension of the AIRMoN program being promoted for North America.
   The guiding philosophy of this program is to make not only accurate
   measurements of changes in air quality, but also sufficient ancillary
   measurements to demonstrate the reasons for these changes and to permit
   extrapolation into the future. The design of all measurement protocols
   is such that effects of changes in emissions are detected, with
   demonstrable confidence, as soon as possible.

   1. THEME - WEATHER AND AIR QUALITY

   Throughout its history, ARL has served as an interface between the
   weather elements of NOAA (and its predecessors) and the air quality
   user community and state/local agencies. Much of this activity started
   as a response to needs associated with the emerging nuclear industry,
   but the tools developed soon evolved into general air quality and
   dispersion capabilities. Today, the air quality aspect of ARL research
   is by far the dominant theme, one that binds ARL's components together
   more than any other. ARL is not heavily involved in the pure science of
   the business. Instead, ARL focuses on the need to assemble integrated
   understanding and models from all available sources, to develop the
   capability to predict changes in air quality that will follow changes
   in emissions, or that will occur as a result of meteorological factors.
   This applies to both forecasting and to prediction in the sense of
   scenario studies.

   ARL air quality research extends to studies of atmospheric deposition -
   essentially the coupling between the atmospheric pollutant environment
   and the surface below. ARL now operates the only research-grade
   deposition monitoring network in the nation: AIRMoN (the Atmospheric
   Integrated Research Monitoring Network). This topic is also central to
   studies under the Coastal Theme.
     * TRANSPORT AND DISPERSION

   The origins of ARL lie in the early need to predict the transport and
   dispersion of radionuclides generated by tests of nuclear weapons in
   the 1950s. Since those early days, the relevance of this particular
   mainstream element of ARL research has extended to a number of topical
   areas, ranging from acid rain to emergency response; however, a
   dominant research thrust of ARL remains the study and the prediction of
   atmospheric transport and dispersion, on scales from local to global.

   Meteorological models have classically concentrated attention on those
   regions of the atmosphere in which weather systems generate and move.
   NOAA experience in using these models has demonstrated the need for a
   more comprehensive and physically correct way of expressing boundary
   layer processes. This is especially important for predicting air
   quality; the atmospheric features that affect air quality tend to be
   strongly moderated by the planetary boundary layer.

   ARL focuses on those aspects of the overall transport and dispersion
   problem that contribute the greatest uncertainty to predictions and
   assessments. The topics that are currently receiving greatest attention
   are complex terrain (including coastal zones), the consequences of
   nocturnal stratification, and the role of clouds at the top of the
   planetary boundary layer.

   The now-evolving generation of mesoscale atmospheric models will
   combine weather forecasting with a directly coupled accounting for the
   effects of local factors that influence the planetary boundary layer
   (PBL). Air quality models have demanded this kind of coupling for a
   considerable time. As a result, there are now well-developed
   descriptions of PBL processes in use in air quality models. The next
   generation of atmospheric models will make use of the extensive PBL
   knowledge now resident in the air quality community, and will be
   extensively data assimilative.

   ARL serves as a provider of meteorological and air pollution guidance
   to other agencies involved in the planning process related to
   technological disasters. In general, the question addressed is "What
   will happen if . . . and what should be done?" The goal is to plan
   response activities to minimize risk and damage, and to help assess
   risk in time to avoid dangerous situations. In this regard, ARL works
   with many government agencies (including EPA, NRC, NASA, DOD, DOE, DOT,
   FBI) involved in the use or transport of hazardous materials.

   The scales involved are from local to continental, with some activities
   stretching to global. Of special relevance is the ARL specialization in
   the short-range dispersion of pollutants, especially heavy gases which
   tend to be greatly influenced by terrain and atmospheric stability.
   Several ARL groups (Research Triangle Park, Idaho Falls, Las Vegas) are
   actively involved in research on the dispersion and transport of heavy
   gases released near the surface. ARL figures prominently in the
   management and operation of the Hazmat Spill Center located on the
   Nevada Test Site of the Department of Energy, near Las Vegas.

   In particular, ARL specializes in the provision of dispersion and
   possible exposure guidance to assist in planning responses by other
   agencies:

   - to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission at their Rockille MD
   Headquarters, related to power reactor accidents

   - to the Department of Energy at their Idaho Falls, Las Vegas, and Oak
   Ridge locations, related to safety of handling and testing nuclear
   materials

   - to the Nuclear Emergency Search Team (NEST) and to the Federal
   Radiological Monitoring and Assessment Center (FRMAC) program at Las
   Vegas, related to the response to nuclear emergencies

   - to the Department of Energy in Las Vegas, related to the need to
   maintain a capability to conduct experiments with nuclear materials

   - to the agencies leading the Interagency Nuclear Safety Review Panel
   (NASA, DOD, DOE, NRC, and EPA), related to the launching of radioactive
   payloads on space vehicles from the USA and Russia

   - to DOE field offices concerned with the health and safety of on-site
   employees and the general public.

   In all of these cases, ARL capabilities are likely to be exercised if
   an accident actually occurs.

   1.1.1 Transport and Dispersion - Research

   ARL research products are now receiving a wider audience, within the
   mesoscale modeling community at large. Characteristics of the PBL are
   controlled by the surface energy budget, terrain, and vegetation; in
   turn, the characteristics of the PBL control wind fields and dispersion
   of trace gases and particles carried by air near the surface. Thus, it
   is a major thrust of ARL research to improve understanding (and
   depictions) of all factors that influence the PBL, especially the three
   central considerations heat energy, topography, and vegetation. It is
   for this fundamental reason that ARL maintains and operates several
   research networks, each designed to provide data with which to test the
   new models as they are developed and to provide data for future
   assimilation by these models.

   These surface networks address various meteorological and air quality
   properties, as well as surface radiation, the driving force for mixing
   in the PBL. It is anticipated that the next generation of
   meteorological models will be driven by data derived from advanced
   networks such as these, and will be adjusted according to observations
   of key diagnostic variables such as air quality and atmospheric
   deposition rates.

   Model development programs are supported by a vigorous physical
   modeling program, located at Research Triangle Park, NC. Studies of
   transport and dispersion near the surface necessarily involve
   consideration of surface heterogeneity, details of which are often best
   studied under controlled conditions in laboratory models. ARL operates
   one of the nation's major fluid modeling facilities, at which studies
   are conducted on the effects of mountains, buildings, and other surface
   obstacles on atmospheric flow patterns. These projects are often in
   support of site-specific pollution studies, as well as the development
   of improved prediction methods that take terrain complexity into
   account.

   The ARL group in Oak Ridge specializes in research to extend
   understanding of dispersion beyond the simple terrain and daytime
   situations of classical studies. To this end, field studies and
   theoretical investigations are conducted of flow and dispersion in
   complex terrain, and in stratified situations.

   Models developed to predict transport and dispersion require testing in
   real world circumstances. To this end, ARL's Field Research Division in
   Idaho Falls, Idaho, maintains a modern high-technology capability to
   employ atmospheric tracers of various kinds in intensive studies. This
   NOAA facility is well recognized and regularly utilized by other
   federal agencies. In recent years, much of the work has been in support
   of model developments within the Department of Defense.

   1.1.2 Transport and Dispersion - Assessment

   ARL capabilities have been directly involved in the post-event
   assessment of the consequences of several disasters, each in
   collaboration with other agencies. In all cases, the specific situation
   was sufficiently complex that expert scientific assistance was
   required. Among the most recent are

   - the exposure of ecosystems and people to oil smoke following the Gulf
   War (Department of Defense),

   - the potential exposure of troops to nerve gases following destruction
   of Iraqi munitions immediately after the Gulf War (several agencies),
   and

   - the reconstruction of personal exposure histories associated with
   nuclear activities at DOE laboratories (Department of Energy).

   1.1.3 Transport and Dispersion - Forecasting for Emergency Response

   NOAA's prime mission is to provide forecasts and warnings to protect
   people and the environment. Routine forecasts are provided by the
   operational line offices of NOAA, once the methodologies are proven to
   have acceptable skill scores. The National Weather Service, for
   example, provides forecasts related to weather and hydrology. ARL is
   actively involved in the development of models for forecasting
   dispersion from specific origins, usually for emergency response
   purposes. In several instances, the skill level is not yet adequate for
   transfer of the methodologies to a fully operational system. In such
   cases, development of the relevant forecasting skills typically
   continues within the research line office of NOAA -- the Office of
   Oceanic and Atmospheric Research (OAR). Within OAR, the evolving
   forecast systems are improved and eventually tested in a
   quasi-operational mode. For example, the Space Environment Center of
   OAR provides the nation's space weather forecasting capability, which
   is viewed as a developing capability. The Air Resources Laboratory
   provides the same service in the context of dispersion of hazardous
   pollutants, including radioactivity, smoke, and volcanic ash.

   An independent system within NOAA handles the need for providing
   site-specific nowcasts in support of emergency response actions
   following spills of hazardous materials. This HAZMAT capability is
   designed to address the near-field situation where nowcasts are
   adequate, typically out to about 10 km. The ARL capability is typically
   for scales larger than 40 km, although it is coupled with mesoscale
   forecast models that can be used for site-specific applications down to
   scales of a few kilometers. The ARL capability is encapsulated in its
   Real-time Environmental Applications and Display sYstem (READY). The
   READY system is designed to be user-friendly, making the best NOAA
   products available via the Internet. The dispersion model used is the
   HYbrid Single-Particle Lagrangian Integrated Trajectory model --
   HYSPLIT-4. Thus

   READY is for forecasts of dispersion for scales greater than a few km,
   whereas

   HAZMAT is for nowcasts of dispersion out to 10 km, driven by on-site
   meteorology.

   It is the guiding philosophy of the READY dispersion forecasting system
   that site-specific circumstances will dominate many aspects of
   dispersion, near the source, and hence that the larger-scale forecast
   products of READY need to be integrated with the best available local
   dispersion models in order to yield an optimal product. READY provides
   a mechanism for onsite experts to gain access to the best forecast
   products now available for the continental USA in a format suitable for
   integrating with local products. In the end, it is envisaged that every
   site being serviced would have a linkage to READY with interpretation
   of the READY outputs in the hands of local experts.

   To help move towards this eventual capability, individual ARL Divisions
   focus on different aspects of the dispersion problem:

   Oak Ridge concentrates on dispersion in complex terrain, with special
   emphasis on urban and coastal situations.

   Idaho Falls concentrates on the case of rolling grassland, assimilating
   surface data to improve the prediction of dispersion in the vicinity of
   the Idaho National Engineering and Environment Laboratory.

   Las Vegas also concentrates on site-specific circumstances (in this
   case the arid terrain of southern Nevada, surrounding the Nevada Test
   Site), and the assimilation of data from both surface arrays and upper
   air soundings.

   Silver Spring couples modern dispersion modeling techniques with the
   forecast products of the National Centers for Environmental Prediction
   (NCEP) (the provider of forecasts within the National Weather Service)
   and makes the results available via the Internet, through READY. Using
   READY, it is possible for an emergency manager to simulate the precise
   situation he is facing, receiving a dispersion forecast tailored to his
   release scenario and driven by the NCEP forecast products.

   (Note that dispersion forecasts are run continually at ARL
   Headquarters, with six-hour forecasts twice a day, for all nuclear
   power plants in the USA. If an event occurs at one of these plants,
   there is no need to initialize a dispersion computation. The most
   recent forecast product is immediately available. This is among several
   ARL forecast products available only to selected users via the
   Internet.)

   ARL serves as a center of activity for the provision of specialized
   meteorological assistance in the event of large releases of hazardous
   materials into the atmosphere, such as from volcanoes, nuclear
   accidents, and industrial disasters. NOAA provides basic meteorological
   support in all such cases, but is also expected to provide related
   guidance to other agencies and warnings to the public.

   Much of ARL's work in this area is in conjunction with other agencies.
   ARL provides vital meteorological support to various agencies, (a) to
   help predict the dispersion of material from an accidental release into
   the air, (b) to develop appropriate response strategies, and (c) to
   provide meteorological assistance in the event of an accident. Work
   concentrates on dispersion from releases of nuclear materials,
   industrial accidents (e.g. Bhopal), and volcanic eruptions (Mt. St.
   Helens, Mt. Redoubt). In this context, NOAA is viewed by other agencies
   as a source of high-quality and independent scientific and technical
   expertise.

   For this purpose, ARL (as a joint activity with the National Centers
   for Environmental Prediction - NCEP ) operates a Regional Specialized
   Meteorological Center (RSMC) for the WMO, to provide emergency response
   assistance to the nations of North and Central America in the event of
   a disastrous accident that releases hazardous material into the
   atmosphere.

   For the case of volcanoes, ARL is joined with NCEP in a Volcanic Ash
   Advisory Center activity, to disseminate warnings to air traffic about
   the presence of volcanic ash clouds. The global array of VAACs is
   organized under the sponsorship of the International Civil Aviation
   Organization (ICAO).

   1.2 Physical and Chemical Mechanisms - Air Quality

   Improved air quality forecasts are increasingly desired by several
   sectors of the community. The air quality forecasts that are currently
   provided are generated largely by consultants and state/local agencies,
   who rely on statistical methods (primarily regression relationships) to
   predict changes in air quality from today's observations. The use of
   deterministic numerical models to provide air quality forecasts has
   been tested over the last several years (by ARL and others) but such
   models have yet to be developed and evaluated to the extent necessary
   to be included in the mix of tools used by the air quality forecasting
   community.

   It is the ARL goal to develop an operational deterministic modeling
   system that can provide information to augment the regression and other
   approaches now used. In its final stages of development, this
   deterministic system is expected to meet if not surpass the forecasting
   capabilities of the regression approaches, especially in the prediction
   of extreme events. Even in this case, however, it is expected that the
   air quality forecast provided by ARL will need to be tailored to meet
   the specific situation and requirements of any individual user. In this
   regard, a continuing close relationship with the existing air quality
   forecasting community is anticipated.

   There are two parallel modeling endeavors under way in ARL. The first
   involves the use of a fully deterministic description of the relevant
   meteorology and air chemistry, with complete description of all
   contributing chemical reactions. Development of this capability (
   "Models-3/CMAQ") has been fully supported by the Environmental
   Protection Agency (EPA). Models-3/CMAQ does not routinely run in
   forecast mode, but is seen to be a basis for development of such a
   capability. A variation on the Models-3 system is presently operated by
   the North Carolina Supercomputing Center (NCSC) as a forecast tool for
   ozone. This advanced methodology is being developed at the ARL
   Atmospheric Sciences Modeling Division, at Research Triangle Park,
   North Carolina.

   Computer capabilities exist but so far have not been used (in the USA)
   to run a model of this complexity in direct association with
   meteorological forecasts, in a routine mode, except in some exceptional
   circumstances. To provide a system that is capable of operating in
   parallel with (or coupled to) meteorological forecasting programs, ARL
   has also developed a hybrid Lagrangian/Eulerian approach that initially
   used a simplified chemistry scheme. In this approach (field tested in
   1997 and 1998), so-called lumped organic chemistry is used. Development
   has taken place at Silver Spring, Maryland, in collaboration with
   Pennsylvania State University. In tests in 1999 and 2000, a more
   advanced chemical scheme has been used, and development has been
   extended to include the Atmospheric Turbulence and Diffusion Division
   in Oak Ridge, Tennessee. (In practice, all models employ some form of
   "lumping." The key consideration is the number of equations that then
   result and the simplifications embodied in them.)

   It is not expected that either system, when fully developed, will be
   capable of supplanting the regression methods that are also being
   improved, for all locations. It is therefore the ARL philosophy that
   the deterministic models will provide guidance on the likely air
   quality in specific regions, to be integrated with whatever operational
   system might be favored by local experts.

   Two test beds are anticipated, one to be at Research Triangle Park
   (addressing air quality in the moist eastern USA) and the other in Las
   Vegas, Nevada (operated in conjunction with CIASTA, and addressing the
   arid west).

   1.2.1 Experimental Program

   The East Tennessee Ozone Study (ETOS) is the cornerstone of ARL air
   quality forecasting development. ETOS is the focus of ARL ozone
   modeling research. The design of the annual ETOS experimental program
   has evolved over the last several years, from an early concentration on
   observations to a current shared focus with model development. For
   2001, an expanded measurement program is being planned, involving
   several federal and state agencies and a number of local universities.
   Data obtained will be compared against predictions, with an emphasis on
   studying the role of elevational changes. The NOAA Twin Otter aircraft
   will be used to study ozone distributions and the rate of destruction
   of ozone by contact with the surface during ETOS-2001.

   ETOS was developed in response to increasing public concern about the
   frequency and impact of ozone exceedances affecting tourism and the
   environment in the region of the Great Smoky Mountains National Park.
   In fact, the summers of the 1990's produced interesting headlines in
   the local press (Knoxville News Sentinel). Headlines ranged from "Air
   Quality at Clingman's Dome hits Danger Level" to "Smoky's Air Quality
   Setting Worst Records." During the summer of 1998, air monitoring
   stations in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park recorded their
   highest-ever eight-hour average ozone exposures. By late August, the
   National Park Service reported the 25th day of unhealthy ozone
   conditions for 1998. For the summer of 1999, the National Park Service
   reported the highest number of days (53) in the Great Smoky Mountain
   park which exceeded the new US EPA 8-hour ozone standard. The trend
   appears to have continued through 2000, but ETOS was essentially
   curtailed for that year due to ARL budget constraints.

   While elevated ozone readings during the summers of the 90's produced
   significant impact on the Great Smoky Mountains, the elevated readings
   within the nearby East Tennessee Valley have focused attention on
   potential economic and societal impacts of the new US EPA 8-hour ozone
   standard. For example, the News-Sentinel reported "Knox, Four Neighbor
   counties won't pass Ozone tests: Chamber Official". The story suggested
   "one way to reduce ozone levels would be to initiate a mass transit
   system and car pooling to take vehicles off the roads," an option
   usually reserved for industrialized urban areas.

   Because of the potential for significant impacts on the East Tennessee
   Valley from elevated ozone levels, ARL/ATDD has initiated a measurement
   and prediction program with the specific goal of developing an
   air-quality forecasting system for East Tennessee. Current partners in
   this effort include the National Weather Service, The University of
   Tennessee, National Park Service, Knox County Air Quality Department,
   State of Tennessee. One key question is whether local measures and
   emissions restrictions will have the desired result of reducing local
   ozone concentrations, or whether changes must be enacted on a much
   broader scale to reach that goal.

   As currently proposed, the ETOS program spans five years - 1999 - 2004.
   ETOS '99 served as a scoping and feasibility study during which new
   measurement techniques, an expanded micro-meteorological monitoring
   network, and various vertical atmospheric/chemical sounding systems
   were tested. In addition, efforts began to incorporate the various
   computer prediction tools (dynamic meteorological model, operational
   multi-species chemistry model, and reporting system) which will be
   integrated and evaluated for the East Tennessee Valley during the
   program period. The proposed modeling system will also include a new
   "research grade" atmospheric and chemistry model - LESchem (Large Eddy
   Simulation plus Chemistry Model) which will be used in evaluation of
   the "operational" forecast tools.

   The second phase of the program was initially planned to commence in FY
   2000, but was delayed due to budget constraints. The start of the
   second phase of ETOS is therefore planned for FY 2001. ETOS 2000-2004,
   is intended to provide a demonstration and evaluation database for the
   various air quality forecast model components. ETOS 2000+ is viewed as
   an evolving program, being regularly refined as new information and new
   models become available.

   1.2.2 Assessing Air Quality

   ARL models the generation, transport, dispersion, and deposition of
   ozone. Much of this work is at the Atmospheric Sciences Modeling
   Division, Research Triangle Park, where the activity is in
   collaboration with the EPA. In support of modeling for regulatory and
   control purposes, and as a contribution to assessments of ecological
   damage, ARL focuses on the destruction of ozone at the surface, upon
   contact with vegetation, soil, etc.

   1.2.3 Forecasting Air Quality

   (A) The Eulerian system

   In collaboration with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), ARL
   has developed Models-3/CMAQ, now the benchmark air quality model for
   regulatory purposes and for evaluating alternative emission scenarios.
   In its various forms, Models-3 runs on any platform from a
   supercomputer to a workstation. A key feature is that it enables the
   user to select from alternative sets of process-level components,
   including air chemistry relationships, so that the sensitivity of
   results to science process choices can be evaluated.

   As normally operated in a regulatory mode, Models-3 is driven by
   detailed mesoscale meteorology normally provided from the MM5 system.
   To extend this already developed modeling system to the forecast mode,
   it is now intended to make use of meteorological data derived from the
   National Centers for Environmental Prediction (NCEP) and the new WRF
   model.

   This development will take place at Research Triangle Park, as a part
   of an initiative now being prepared for FY 2003 consideration.

   (B) The Lagrangian system

   Work on model development started in the 1980s, with an emphasis on
   forecasting periods of acid rain. In the 1990s, the focus shifted to
   forecasting ozone. In 1997, 1998, 1999, and 2000, trial ozone forecasts
   were made available for testing against data collected in Texas and
   elsewhere. These tests indicated periods of good agreement, with
   intervening periods of poor performance and with little information to
   guide how to predict one such period from the other. A thorough
   examination of model performance is now in preparation.

   During the same period, the East Tennessee Ozone Study (ETOS) was
   commencing. ETOS evolved as a multi-agency investigation of the reasons
   for a rapidly increasing number of days of exceedingly high ozone
   concentrations in east Tennessee, and affecting the Great Smoky
   Mountains National Park. The early data collected by ETOS showed large
   differences between ozone levels at adjacent sites with different
   elevations. This height dependence remains a subject for investigation.
   Clearly, there is a strong need to couple elements of long-range
   transport with ozone generation calculations based on regional and
   local emissions. In 1999 and 2000, comparisons between ETOS ozone
   observations and model forecasts showed some periods of high
   correlations, but in general the agreement was poor. In 2000, the model
   forecasts for Texas were worse than for either of 1998 or 1999. It is
   now believed that this deteriorated performance resulted from a change
   in the description of the emissions inventory, a clear demonstration of
   the reliance of all such forecasts on emissions assumptions.

   1.3 Air-surface exchange

   ARL conducts basic research on methods for predicting and measuring the
   exchange of meteorological quantities (heat, moisture, and momentum)
   and trace gases and particles (e.g. ozone, carbon dioxide, sulfur and
   nitrogen oxides, base cations, nutrients, radioactives, and toxic
   chemicals) between the atmosphere and various surfaces. The historic
   emphasis has been on deposition, both wet and dry.

   State-of-the-art measurement technologies are of special importance, so
   that process-level understanding can be improved. A recent addition to
   the ARL inventory of experimental tools has been the application of
   mobile flux measurement technology to an aircraft of the NOAA fleet, a
   De Havilland Twin Otter. ARL has provided the instrumentation, skills,
   and (most of the) budget necessary to build a unique aircraft platform,
   capable of performing as well as any similar aircraft now existing. The
   aircraft is operated and maintained by the NOAA Aircraft Operations
   Center, Tampa, Florida.

   1.3.1 Integrated Monitoring, and AIRMoN

   The Atmospheric Integrated Research Monitoring Network (AIRMoN) is an
   atmospheric component to the overall national integrated monitoring
   initiative that is currently evolving. AIRMoN is constructed by
   combining and building upon pre-existing specialized wet deposition and
   dry deposition monitoring networks, and with two specific goals

   1. To provide regular and timely reports on the atmospheric
   consequences of emission reductions, as imposed under the Clean Air Act
   Amendments of 1990.

   2. To provide quantified information required to extend these
   observations of atmospheric effects to atmospheric deposition, both wet
   and dry.

   AIRMoN has two principal components: wet and dry deposition. All
   variables are measured in a manner that is designed to detect and
   properly attribute the benefits of emissions controls mandated under
   the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, and to reveal the actual
   deposition that occurred without fear of chemical (or other)
   contamination. It should be emphasized that conventional monitoring
   programs rely on statistical methods to extract small signals from
   imperfect and noisy data records. AIRMoN is designed to take a new
   step, that will remove much of the noise by integrating modern forecast
   technology into the monitoring process.

   ARL presently focuses its research attention on

   - the measurement of precipitation chemistry with fine time resolution
   (AIRMoN-wet),

   - the development of systems for measuring deposition, both wet and
   dry,

   - the measurement of dry deposition using micrometeorological methods
   (AIRMoN-dry),

   - the development of techniques for assessing air-surface exchange in
   areas (such as specific watersheds) where intensive studies are not
   feasible, and

   - the extension of local measurements and knowledge to describe areal
   average exchange in numerical models.

   1.5 International

   ARL (as a joint activity with the National Centers for Environmental
   Prediction - NCEP ) operates a Regional Specialized Meteorological
   Center (RSMC) for the World Meteorological Organization (WMO), to
   provide emergency response assistance to the nations of North, Central,
   and South America in the event of a disastrous accident that releases
   hazardous material into the atmosphere.

   ARL also collaborates with the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty
   Organization in Vienna, Austria, where models are run routinely to
   identify the origin of any radioactivity that might be detected in air.
   This operation is in collaboration with the WMO.

   For the case of volcanoes, ARL is joined with NCEP and NESDIS in a
   Volcanic Ash Advisory Center activity, to disseminate warnings to air
   traffic about the presence of volcanic ash clouds. The global array of
   VAACs is organized under the sponsorship of the International Civil
   Aviation Organization (ICAO), with WMO collaboration.

   1.6 Aerosols and visibility

   ARL specializes in the geochemical cycling of atmospheric aerosols,
   particularly the particulate component. Research groups in ARL
   concentrate on (a) the injection of dust and soil particles into the
   atmosphere, (b) the transport of particles through the atmosphere, (c)
   the production of aerosol particles in the air by chemical reactions,
   (d) the scavenging of airborne particles by clouds and their subsequent
   deposition in precipitation, (e) the dry deposition of particles as air
   moves across different landscapes, and (f) the assembly of numerical
   models. Specific topics include

   - the injection of dust and soil particles into the atmosphere
   (addressed at both Research Triangle Park and Las Vegas),

   - the long-range transport of particles through the atmosphere (a major
   specialty of the groups at Silver Spring, Research Triangle Park, and
   Idaho Falls),

   - the production of aerosol particles in the air by chemical reactions
   ( Research Triangle Park and Las Vegas),

   - the scavenging of airborne particles by clouds and their subsequent
   deposition in precipitation (Silver Spring and Research Triangle Park),
   and

   - the dry deposition of particles as air moves across different
   landscapes ( Oak Ridge and Research Triangle Park).

   ARL remains active in the study and interpretation of solar radiation
   (direct solar beam and diffuse radiation) and atmospheric turbidity.
   These topics are addressed under Theme 3 - Climate.
   (Return to top)

   2. THEME -- COASTAL

   ARL research concerns the atmosphere as a component of the earth
   environment system. Even though the research is focused on the
   atmosphere, the nature of interaction with the aquatic and terrestrial
   environments is always a central consideration. In practice, this
   multi-media aspect of ARL research is most relevant to current
   environmental interests in the context of oceanic and coastal ecosystem
   science, essentially stretching from the edge of the coastal plain to
   the edge of the continental shelf and sometimes even further offshore.
   Much of the research that is described below corresponds to activities
   under the Sustain Healthy Coasts area of NOAA Research. Other parts of
   it relate more to the Navigable Harbors area. Some of the work is
   equally appropriate to the other thematic areas of ARL research. In
   fact, it is a common feature of ARL research that several current
   interests are addressed in parallel. This is an intentional philosophy
   intended to maximize the utility of the results obtained.

   2.1 Air-Sea Exchange

   Air-surface exchange is a long-term theme of ARL research. The marine
   component of this work requires special attention because of the
   difficulty in measuring the exchange rates directly, and the current
   lack of understanding of the processes that control the exchange. In
   practice, existing formulations of air-sea exchange are based on
   studies conducted in moderate winds. The light and strong wind cases
   require attention. ARL researchers are actively exploring both, through
   the development and application of new technology to employ both fixed
   and airborne platforms.

   Existing parameterizations of heat, moisture, and momentum fluxes in
   the marine atmospheric boundary layer (MABL) perform poorly under weak
   wind regimes, especially in regions of inhomogeneity such as along
   shorelines. These problems are due to a variety of processes including
   averaging techniques, gravity capillary wave spacing, surfactants and
   surface tension, free convection effects, and frequency-dependent
   differences between wind, waves, and stress. In order to address these
   various forcing mechanisms, high-resolution, high-fidelity atmospheric
   and surface wave data are needed to describe energy exchange across the
   air-sea interface. We will use a research aircraft to acquire
   atmospheric turbulent flux and wave field data. The ability of the
   privately owned and leased LongEZ (N3R) aircraft to acquire both in
   situ atmospheric turbulence measurements and remotely-sensed sea
   surface properties over large spatial scales at low altitudes (~10 m)
   in a short period of time is unique. This aircraft has proven to be an
   especially powerful tool for studying the spatial variability of
   air-surface exchange. Data acquired in this research effort will
   support the test and refinement of parameterizations used in air-sea
   models. In addition, such measurements provide important boundary
   conditions to determine boundary layer turbulence and other atmospheric
   processes controlling the exchange of energy across the air-sea
   interface. We will focus on the description of the weak-wind MABL,
   spatial variation of the wind and wave regimes, and determination of
   heat, moisture, and momentum linkages between the atmosphere and ocean.

   Two new developments are targeting the high wind case. First,
   pressure-port anemometry is being refined in work at Idaho Falls and
   Oak Ridge, to provide a new capability to measure eddy fluxes in
   hurricane-force winds. The goal is to refine understanding of drag
   coefficients in hurricane strength winds. Second, the NOAA P-3 aircraft
   are to be used as platforms "of opportunity," sampling turbulence and
   measuring eddy fluxes routinely along their flight paths as they
   operate on hurricane research missions. The experimental systems with
   which the P-3s will be fitted are also being developed jointly by Idaho
   Falls and Oak Ridge researchers. Once these systems are deployed, the
   research community will have access to observations never before made.

   2.2 Atmospheric Loadings to Coastal Ecosystems

   ARL leads a coordinated program under the auspices of the Chesapeake
   Bay Program, to assess the role of deposition of nitrogen species from
   the atmosphere as a contribution to the eutrophication of estuaries.
   Although much of the work is focused on the Chesapeake Bay, the concern
   is wider spread. Current estimates are that about 25 to 30% of the
   total nitrogen loading affecting the Chesapeake Bay is derived via the
   atmosphere; the proportion may be higher in some other coastal
   ecosystems. ARL is presently a leading contributor to a third "Shared
   Resources" workshop, at which representatives of State air and water
   regulatory bodies interact with scientists and industry representatives
   to generate a mutual understanding of the role and importance of the
   atmospheric deposition issue. In this most recent case, the focus of
   attention will be on the role played by ammonia emitted from intensive
   animal farming.

   ARL addresses the pollutant loadings issue using both measurements and
   models. Much of the historic information related to this topic has been
   a product of models, particularly the Regional Acid Deposition Model
   (RADM) initially developed during the acid rain era of the 1980s. Now,
   the emphasis is switching to the new Models-3/CMAQ system, developed
   recently by ARL scientists at Research Triangle Park, under sponsorship
   of the Environmental Protection Agency.

   The overall program that is now evolving necessarily involves both
   modeling and experimental components. In work soon to come, the effort
   will be focused on watersheds flowing into the Chesapeake Bay, on the
   Delmarva Peninsula. It is anticipated that this work will be in
   collaboration with the University of Maryland Eastern Shore.

   ARL took a lead role in the preparation of the most recent scientific
   monograph on the topic of atmospheric deposition to coastal areas,
   "Nitrogen Loading in Coastal Water Bodies - An Atmospheric
   Perspective," recent published by the American Geophysical Union. This
   monograph gives convincing evidence of the poor state of understanding
   of the way in which atmospheric and terrestrial biomes interact. The
   range of estimates of the magnitude of the atmospheric contribution to
   east coast bays and estuaries is quite large. These estimates must be
   refined and demonstrated to be accurate before regulatory and control
   actions can be optimized. From the perspective of the total
   environment, what is needed is " regulation with no surprises."

   Several current environmental concerns appear to require attention from
   the atmospheric deposition perspective. For example, it is known that
   deposition from the air dominates the new pollution budget of large
   areas of the ocean, and especially some areas where coral reefs
   previously flourished. The question arises as to whether the decline of
   some of these coral reefs might be due to bioaccumulating pollutants
   delivered through the atmosphere after transport from far distant
   origins. Likewise, the population decline of Steller sea lions begs the
   question as to a possible role of atmospheric deposition and subsequent
   food chain bioaccumulation of it, eventually either affecting the sea
   lions directly or the killing off of animals that are a food source for
   the sea lions. In both of these examples, measurements of atmospheric
   deposition are required before answers can be generated that are not
   purely conjectural.

   2.3 Multi-Media Modeling

   Atmospheric models are well advanced, in comparison to models of the
   transport of pollutants across and through a vegetated watershed, via
   streams and through ground water. In current practice, end-to-end
   pollution dispersion, deposition and consequence assessments are based
   on coupling a highly advanced atmospheric model with a comparatively
   crude watershed model and a poor understanding of how effects can be
   related to doses of specific pollutants. A better system is being
   sought.

   At this time, the first steps are being taken to develop a parsimonious
   modeling system to address the air/biosphere system in a manner
   adequate for predictions to be made and assessments conducted. This
   development is being led by ARL scientists at Research Triangle Park.
   (Return to top)

   3. THEME - CLIMATE

   Climate research has a long history in ARL. Since 1962, when ARL
   assumed responsibility for the monitoring programs at Mauna Loa
   Observatory, ARL has been collecting and analyzing climate data
   (although operation of the baseline observatories, of which Mauna Loa
   was the first, is no longer an ARL responsibility). Upper-atmosphere
   ozone monitoring began in the early 1960s. The program at Mauna Loa
   became the nucleus of ARL's Geophysical Monitoring for Climate Change
   program formed in the early 1970s. (GMCC became the principal component
   of the Climate Monitoring and Diagnostic Laboratory (CMDL) when it was
   formed in 1990.) ARL also established a solar radiation monitoring
   network in 1975. Analyses of U.S. sunshine and cloudiness records (from
   1950 onward) and global temperatures (since 1958) were begun in the
   mid-1970s, supplemented by analysis of global tropospheric water vapor
   changes in the mid-1980s.

   In the last decade, ARL has strengthened its climate research programs
   considerably, with the development of the integrated system of
   monitoring stations communally referred to as the Atmospheric
   Coordinated Observations and Research Network (ACORN). This system
   primarily addresses the way the atmosphere interacts with the surface
   of the earth, concentrating on the continental USA. The main components
   of ACORN are the national surface radiation program (SURFRAD) and the
   atmospheric pollutant deposition array ( AIRMoN - the Atmospheric
   Integrated Research Monitoring Network). A number of other specialized
   arrays contribute to ACORN - specifically the Integrated Surface
   Irradiance Study (ISIS) measuring incoming solar energy more simply
   than in SURFRAD, an Energy Balance Network (EBN) which extends the
   observations of SURFRAD to turbulent energy exchange components, and
   the CO[2] Sequestration Network (CO[2]SN) that operates as a NOAA
   contribution to the multi-agency AmeriFlux Program, quantifying the
   rate at which the North American biosphere uptakes CO[2] from the air.
   These measurement programs are coupled with research activities to
   determine the processes that control the exchanges of the quantities
   being measured between the air and the surface, and especially to
   develop methods for computing spatial averages (such as are required by
   numerical models) from the location-specific measurements that are
   made. In this regard, the regular measurement program is augmented by
   an ongoing program employing research aircraft, carrying advanced
   turbulence sensors from which exchange rates (eddy fluxes) can be
   derived with accuracy. The principal aircraft used in such studies is a
   Twin Otter from the NOAA fleet, and a variety of lighter aircraft
   operated either privately or by other agencies. All such aircraft carry
   flux systems developed and constructed by ARL scientists.

   In parallel with the studies of the surface energy budget and CO2
   exchange, there is a focus on the water cycle. Measurement of the rate
   of exchange of water between the surface and the atmosphere is an
   essential component of the EBN, and the aircraft studies that
   complement the operations of this network are specifically intended to
   yield techniques for computing water balance quantities on an areal
   (watershed) basis. Much of this work is integral with GEWEX and other
   multi-year and longer programs of the global change research community.

   The detection of climate change using standard meteorological
   measurements and the statistical requirements for quantifying the rate
   of change with confidence are two major thrusts of ARL research, at
   Silver Spring and Boulder respectively. Climate trends and variability
   are the topics addressed by the Silver Spring group; the statistical
   requirements are being investigated at Boulder. For many years, ARL has
   maintained an ongoing examination of data from a network of radiosonde
   stations, selected so as to be spatially representative of the global
   atmosphere. This network continues to yield important information about
   the long-term warming of air near the ground, and the cooling of the
   stratosphere. A recent extension of this work has been to consider
   those climate change variables that have the potential for directly
   affecting people and society.

   3.1 Transport and Dispersion - Smoke, Ash and Haze

   3.1.1 Site Operations - Nevada and Idaho

   ARL maintains regional climate monitoring networks, dedicated to the
   assessment and prediction of atmospheric dispersion, as a contribution
   to collaborative work with the Department of Energy at it's Nevada and
   Idaho sites. At various times, and as circumstances dictate, ARL has
   operated similar regional measurement programs to address specific
   issues, such as the climate impact of the oil fire smoke in Kuwait
   following the Gulf War, and more recently the surface radiative
   repercussions of the dispersion of forest fire smoke from fires in
   southeast Asia.

   3.1.2 Climatological Assessment of Dispersion

   ARL's classical dispersion products have had widespread climate
   relevance, especially in the context of suspected changes in climate
   due to emissions from specific sources. Most of the ARL models are now
   available via the Internet, providing the opportunity for end users to
   exercise the models themselves and so to address real-world problems in
   real time. The oil fires following the Gulf War presented an
   opportunity to demonstrate the utility of the ARL products. At that
   time, it was widely feared that the smoke pall generated by the fires
   would have severe climate repercussions, regionally and perhaps
   globally. The ARL models helped dispel that fear, and in fact were used
   extensively to predict the (small) future changes that were to be
   expected. ARL has also been actively investigating the climatology of
   air stagnation, the property that controls the likelihood of high
   pollution episodes.

   3.1.3 Forecasting Long-Range and Climate-Related Dispersion

   The major forest fires of recent years, in the Americas and in
   southeast Asia, have added to the intensity of debate about the role of
   airborne particles in modifying climate. Moreover, ash from volcanoes
   is an increasingly important consideration to airlines, in particular.
   Prediction of the dispersion of smoke and haze is an item more
   appropriately addressed elsewhere (see 1.1.3).

   3.2 Climate Variability and Trends

   3.2.1 Climate Research

   Current ARL climate research has been stimulated by the potential of
   human activities to bring substantial changes in the environment.
   However, an understanding of natural variability, the "noise" from
   which any anthropogenic signal must be extracted, is necessary before
   any change can be unequivocally ascribed to human activities.
   Contributing to the noise are volcanos and quasi-periodic events such
   as the quasi-biennial oscillation (QBO) and the El Nino-Southern
   Oscillation (ENSO). Noise is also introduced by changes in measuring
   and data processing techniques, which can masquerade as climate
   changes. Furthermore, increased understanding of interseasonal and
   interannual variability will contribute to the improvement of the
   rudimentary attempts to predict climate elements as long as a year in
   advance.

   The ARL Climate Variability and Trends work concentrates on regional
   and global climatic variability on monthly to multi-decadal time
   scales. Upper-air and surface temperature and humidity, and
   stratospheric ozone have received the most attention. Apart from ozone
   observations, the main sources of data have been routine weather
   observations, particularly from radiosondes, which are collected for
   weather forecasting, not for climate research. While satellite and
   other remote sensing devices give improved spatial coverage, they give
   less vertical resolution and have shorter data records than
   radiosondes. The continual changes in radiosonde observational systems
   present obstacles to detecting the underlying variability. Thus
   collection and analysis of "metadata," or data about data, is part of
   the research effort.

   Study of the statistics of detecting slow climate change is central to
   the programs of the Surface Radiation Research Branch of ARL, in
   Boulder, Colorado. In large, the ARL research program at Boulder is
   centered on the interpretation of surface radiation measurements,
   instrument characterization, and calibration. In addition to the
   statistical studies already mentioned, the areas of emphasis are: 1)
   analyses of the surface radiation for trends and regional
   characteristics, 2) modeling the radiative transfer process as a means
   of inferring the effects of clouds, aerosols and ozone on the
   transmission of visible radiation and UV, 3) evaluating the field
   performance characteristics of UV, visible and IR radiometers to
   improve our understanding of their behavior, 4) developing rigorous
   laboratory methods for characterizing and calibrating UV instruments
   (because of the difficulty in making reliable measurements in the UV-B
   region of the solar spectrum), 5) comparing surface measurements with
   those made or inferred from other observing systems such as satellites,
   and 6) the development of new instruments to provide ancillary
   information that will aid in the interpretation of the SURFRAD and
   other surface radiation measurements.

   Interpretation of measured surface radiation quantities in terms of
   diagnostics and radiative transfer model applications is an ongoing
   process. To carry out this work, SRRB has a strong complement of
   radiative transfer experts. In conducting their research, SRRB
   scientists have established several cooperative linkages with
   scientists at universities and government institutions. Among these are
   North Carolina State University, SUNY at Albany, the University of
   Maryland, the University of Chicago, the Pennsylvania State University,
   the University of Arizona, the University of Wyoming, UCAR, NASA
   Goddard and NASA Langley, EPA, USDA, NWS, and NIST. For example,
   discussions are underway with UCAR officials to have GPS precipitable
   water vapor receivers installed at all ISIS stations, and a joint
   venture with NOAA ETL has resulted in the development of NOAA's first
   stand-alone, field-hardened cloud and aerosol lidar, which is now being
   used in experimental programs. SRRB has also developed an inexpensive
   cloud cover detector that is now commercially available. One of these
   detectors is now operated at each SURFRAD station to aid in studies of
   the effects of clouds on surface radiation. It is this balance of
   measurements, basic research, and applied research, in concert with
   many ties to the outside research community, that makes SRRB a truly
   integrated research activity.

   We plan for stations of the augmented SURFRAD network to constitute the
   first phase of the Climate Reference Network, now being initiated
   through collaboration between the National Climate Data Center of
   NESDIS (Asheville, NC) and ARL/ATDD (Oak Ridge, TN). 3.3
   Climate-Related Air-Surface Exchange

   3.3.1 Experimental Studies

   Questions about the amount of CO[2] that is taken up by the biosphere
   as air moves across the USA, about the rate of growth of the planetary
   boundary layer every day, and the availability of water, all require an
   understanding of the fluxes of heat and gases between the air and the
   surface. It has been the operating philosophy of ARL measurement
   research that the next generation of models developed for such purposes
   will necessarily require some kind of assimilation of relevant
   observational data. To this end, ARL has actively promoted and
   supported the operation of a multi-faceted monitoring array - the
   Atmospheric Coordinated Observations and Research Network (ACORN). The
   stations of this network yield measurements of fluxes - that is, the
   rate of exchange of the relevant quantity between the air and the
   surface.

   In practice, the data are indeed being used in the development of new
   numerical models. Data from SURFRAD and the EBN are being used by a
   wide community of modelers, specifically including mesoscale modelers
   at the National Centers for Environmental Prediction (NCEP, with which
   ARL scientists collaborate closely) and the developers of improved
   hydrological models (within the National Weather Service, NWS) for
   water availability studies. It should be noted that these two
   particular applications demonstrate the breadth of the community now
   reliant on the ARL products. The NCEP application is related to the
   development of improved models for forecasting weather. The
   hydrological application pertains to studies of regional water supply,
   as is targeted by GEWEX under the "climate" umbrella.

   3.3.2 Improving Model Parameterizations

   Surface flux parameterizations remain an area of uncertainty in global
   models because of the need to represent complex-topography grid
   averages in the models, whereas current understanding is limited to
   particular kinds of surfaces. The coarse grid scales used for efficient
   computation by global scale circulation and climate models generally
   require very simple parameterizations of the near-surface planetary
   boundary layer, with the result that some important processes are not
   well-described. ATDD has collaborated in an effort to produce a better
   representation of these processes for global climate models.

   Central in the studies of how to extrapolate from understanding of
   processes for a specific kind or surface to a spatial average is the
   use of aircraft. In essence, ARL has adopted a multi-faceted approach
   to the problem, with dedicated and continuously operating measurement
   locations to reveal time variability at specific locations, and with
   intensive aircraft studies to look at spatial variability at specific
   times. Current research is exploring how best to couple the results
   from these two kinds of studies to best answer the practical problems
   confronted by modelers. [3.2.1]

   3.4 Integration - Atmospheric Coordinated Observations and Research

   Over the last two decades, ARL has organized a number of collaborative
   and interconnected monitoring networks, which together constitute an
   organized measurement and analysis approach to predict future changes
   in the coupling of the atmosphere-terrestrial biosphere system. This
   assembly of networks and research makes up the ACORN integrated
   monitoring network.

   The Air Resources Laboratory has been a long-time leading advocate of
   the principles of Atmospheric Coordinated Observations and Research.
   This research philosophy is known by some as "Integrated Monitoring."
   ACORN represents a new approach to environmental research and
   prediction in which measurements are not limited to tracking changes in
   the characteristics of some environmental systems, but are also matched
   with the requirements for specifically designed scientific studies of
   factors that lead to more sound explanations of the causes of those
   changes. From the aspect of climate and weather forecasting research,
   its objective is directed at improving the forecasts by advancing our
   knowledge of the surface/atmospheric energy input and dissipation
   processes in the models. Coordinated Observations and Research implies
   a more focused coupling of measurements with theory to enhance the
   analysis and prediction research efforts being conducted by NOAA in
   compliance with it's Strategic Plan. This in turn requires an effort to
   further utilize NOAA's long-term observing programs along the lines of
   a traditional scientific approach. It is through coordinated sets of
   observations coupled with analytical investigations of
   cause-and-effect, that understanding can be improved at a more rapid
   pace, ultimately leading to more accurate prediction of future changes.
   The observations reveal the details of the true behavior of atmospheric
   phenomena and also provide for research on a continuous or nearly
   continuous basis, involving both NOAA's surface networks and satellites
   The suite of NOAA observations constitutes a complementary subset of
   other national observational programs, such as are led by NASA, NSF,
   USDA, and the DOE, but the ARL surface networks are unique in that they
   cover much of the U.S. and obtain continuous data. It is the analysis
   and prediction aspects of the ACORN approach that constitute the heart
   of ongoing research. It is this aspect that differentiates ACORN from
   classical monitoring of status and trends.

   The components of ACORN start with ISIS - the Integrated Surface
   Irradiance Study - and end with AIRMoN - the Atmospheric Integrated
   Research Monitoring Network. There are several sub-components of these
   arrays, such as (the ISIS level 2) SURFRAD - the SURface RADiation
   network, but together the ARL monitoring system constitutes the
   nation's only truly integrated measurement system for permanent
   recording of past changes in the atmosphere-terrestrial system and for
   extrapolating into the future. NOAA's satellite observations supply
   broader spatial coverage from the top of the atmosphere, but with less
   finer detail than the surface measurements. The two systems are
   complementary, each filling in scientific information voids where the
   other can not.

   ARL's network operations address the coupling of the earth's surface
   and the atmosphere. The magnitude and process of this coupling are
   quantified in terms of fluxes - rates of exchange of specific
   quantities such as heat, water, and various trace quantities like CO[2]
   and air pollutants. The driving force of the earth as a dynamic,
   life-supporting planet is radiation received from the sun. ARL's
   network operations therefore start with measurements of solar radiation
   received at the earth's surface.

   There are four fundamental reasons that the ACORN array is constructed
   in its present form. First, a basic tenet of integrated observing
   concepts is that not all stations need to make every measurement with
   the sampling protocols necessary for every purpose. To do so would be
   prohibitively expensive. Therefore, ISIS (and all ARL network
   operations) is constructed as a nested network, with some stations
   using more advanced systems than others, but with a common set of
   fundamental observations shared by all. Second, the next generation of
   prognostic models will require observational data on the surface fluxes
   of heat, moisture, and momentum to benchmark the air-surface exchange
   formulations on which they rely and to serve as a basis for diagnosing
   model performance related to precipitation, evaporation, humidity, etc.
   Third, ARL scientists concur whole-heartedly with the current belief
   that satellites offer promise that is yet to be fully realized, but
   further believe that in order to extend satellite observations, ground
   truth is critical. This attitude comes from direct experience with the
   use of ground-based observations to verify satellite observations of
   surface shortwave and UV irradiance, and just as importantly, the
   development of inversion algorithms to retrieve information on
   atmospheric properties. Moreover, the World Climate Research Program in
   recognition of the importance of surface radiation for atmospheric
   research, has strongly emphasized the need for long-term surface
   irradiance observations to validate satellite determinations of these
   quantities. ISIS and SURFRAD in particular offer a unique set of
   surface radiation observations for checking the calibrations and
   performance characteristics of satellite sensors. Fourth, and in some
   contexts most important, ARL endorses strongly the need for long-term
   observations at the surface where people and other living organisms are
   actually affected by the environmental characteristics of climate and
   are impacted by its change. Attributing changes in any property to
   greenhouse effects or to other climate change forcing factors requires
   candid examination of the roles of other influences. This necessarily
   mandates concurrent measurement of other variables, as is inherent in
   the overall philosophy of Coordinated Observations and Research to
   which the ARL mission ascribes.

   3.4. Integrated Monitoring

   3.4.1 Radiation and the Surface Energy Budget

   ISIS (Level 1). The Integrated Surface Irradiance Study (ISIS) measures
   the incoming radiation from the sun, with emphasis on the direct beam,
   the radiation scattered and absorbed by the atmosphere and its
   constituents, and the components of radiation that are especially
   harmful to living organisms. ISIS therefore measures direct and global
   shortwave surface radiation, plus surface UV radiation in the broad
   wavelength band that is biologically important. A detailed description
   of ISIS and access to processed data from the ISIS Level 1 network can
   be found at www.atdd.noaa.gov/isis/isis.htm.

   The UV component of ISIS deserves special mention. Surface UV radiation
   remains difficult to measure. As a contribution to the national
   multi-agency UV monitoring program, ARL operates, as a collaborative
   venture with NIST, the national Central UV Calibration Facility. ARL
   also co-chairs (with NASA) the task team organized by the US Global
   Change Research Program to coordinate the national UV measurement
   program.

   SURFRAD (Level 2). The motions of the lower atmosphere are largely
   governed by the rate of heat input at the surface. To obtain the
   necessary information and to help generate the understanding to
   interpret the relevant data, ARL operates a smaller subnetwork of ISIS
   where measurements are made of upwelling longwave and shortwave
   components of surface radiation as well as downwelling. From this
   perspective, the emission of thermal radiation (infrared) from the
   surface must be accounted for to obtain a complete measure of the
   radiant energy heating and cooling process. Therefore, this SURface
   RADiation network (SURFRAD) includes measurements of infrared radiation
   to the surface radiative flux suite. Since cloud cover is a crucial
   consideration, steps are currently being taken to augment SURFRAD
   stations with automated all-sky cloud cover sensors. The specialized
   surface radiation balance data produced by SURFRAD are available at
   www.srrb.noaa.gov/pub/data/surfrad.

   SURFRAD data are currently being used to evaluate algorithms for
   interpreting satellite data, to monitor changes in high-level cloud,
   and to provide regionally-specific input data for national hydrological
   models. The Eta model now being run operationally is routinely tested
   by comparison against SURFRAD data.

   Surface Energy Balance (Level 3). The next generation of mesoscale
   models must necessarily include more precise descriptions of the
   coupling between the earth and the atmosphere, as quantified in terms
   of the eddy fluxes of sensible and latent heats, and of momentum. ARL
   is actively establishing a network subset of full energy balance
   monitoring stations to complete the overall scheme of relevant
   observations . Stations currently operational are at Oak Ridge,
   Tennessee, Bondville, Illinois, and Fort Peck, Montana. Installations
   at Goodwin Creek, Mississippi, and at Davis, West Virginia, are being
   planned.

   The data from these stations are being used to test and develop
   improved mesoscale models, for weather forecasting purposes. The next
   generation of numerical forecast models will necessarily involve
   improved depictions of air-surface exchange, for which this array of
   surface stations will provide the requisite "ground truth."

   The CO[2] Sequestration Network, and AmeriFlux (Level 4). In addition
   to the eddy flux components of the surface heat balance, the augmented
   SURFRAD stations also measure fluxes of carbon dioxide. These
   measurements provide a direct quantification of the sequestering of
   atmospheric CO[2] in the terrestrial biosystem, and the water exchange
   data serve similarly in hydrological studies of the water balance of
   the atmosphere-biosphere system.

   Dry deposition of pollutants - AIRMoN-dry (Level 5). The ability to
   measure some of the suite of air-surface exchange variables (radiative
   and eddy fluxes) leads into one of the more extensive parts of the
   ACORN program - the Atmospheric Integrated Research Monitoring Network
   (AIRMoN; http://www.arl.noaa.gov/research/programs/airmon.html) AIRMoN
   has been established to develop methodologies for monitoring the rates
   of deposition of air pollutants to natural landscapes. This deposition
   occurs in two forms - dry and wet. Dry deposition is by the
   gravitational settling of particles and by the turbulent exchange of
   trace gases (and of particles too small to sediment in a turbulent
   atmosphere). Wet deposition is occasioned by precipitation - it entails
   the scavenging of pollutants by clouds and the washout of pollutants by
   raindrops falling from clouds. AIRMoN-dry is the dry deposition part of
   the overall AIRMoN program.

   Wet deposition of pollutants - AIRMoN-wet (Level 6). The wet deposition
   part of the overall AIRMoN program operates as a sub-network of the
   National Atmospheric Deposition Program (NADP;
   http://nadp.sws.uiuc.edu), the largest atmospheric deposition network
   in North America. In accord with the overall ARL monitoring philosophy,
   AIRMoN-wet is designed as a research sub-network of NADP, using more
   refined sampling protocols and exploring methodologies for accurately
   monitoring the deposition of quantities that NADP's existing protocols
   do not address well. A key chemical in this category is ammonium. It is
   for this reason that AIRMoN-wet stations are predominantly in coastal
   regions, since it is near the coasts that nitrogen deposition is seen
   as a major issue and it is AIRMoN-wet that best addresses this issue.
   Data access is through NADP, via
   http://nadp.sws.uiuc.edu/airmon/getamdata.asp.

   As in the case of AIRMoN-dry, the present network operates as a
   research activity to develop improved methods for measurement that are
   then available for wider application.

   3.5 International

   ARL serves as the leader of the U.S. multi-agency effort to impose
   formalized and uniform quality assurance programs on the many national
   air quality and deposition monitoring networks that are operational
   around the globe. The region of ARL involvement is the Americas, and
   the mechanism involved is the Quality Assurance/Science Activity Center
   of the World Meteorol
