http://www.avapcd.ca.gov/district.shtml

               Antelope Valley Air Quality Management District

   [toplinks_01.gif] [toplinks_02.gif] [toplinks_03.gif] [toplinks_04.gif]
   [toplinks_05.gif] [toplinks_06.gif] [toplinks_07.gif] [toplinks_08.gif]
   [toplinks_09.gif]

   [bottomlinks_01.gif] [bottomlinks_02.gif] [bottomlinks_03.gif]
   [bottomlinks_04.gif] [bottomlinks_05.gif] [bottomlinks_06.gif]

      [liner.gif]

   What is the AVAPCD?
   When it opened its doors after its July 1, 1997 inception, the Antelope
   Valley Air Pollution Control District (AVAPCD) became the newest of 35
   local air districts throughout California charged with regulating
   stationary sources of air pollution. The District is mandated by State
   and Federal regulations to implement and enforce air pollution rules
   and regulations.

   The AVAPCDs seven-member Governing Board is comprised of two appointees
   each from the cities of Lancaster and Palmdale and the County of Los
   Angeles Fifth Supervisorial District, plus one Public Member appointed
   by the Boards membership. The Governing Board has responsibility to
   move the District progressively forward in reducing causes of local air
   pollutants in order to preserve and protect the health and safety of
   District residents. The Board meets the third Tuesday of each month.

   For the first few years of operation, the Governing Board has
   contracted with its neighbor to the east, the Mojave Desert Air Quality
   Management District (MDAQMD), to provide air pollution services. Based
   on the many commonalities of the two high desert air districts -
   including similarities in geography, climatology and air quality issues
   - the Antelope Valley APCD expects to benefit greatly through the
   expertise of the experienced MDAQMD staff.

   District Boundaries
   The State of California is divided geographically into fifteen air
   basins. The AVAPCD lies within the Mojave Desert Air Basin, which also
   included the desert portions of Kern, San Bernardino and Riverside
   Counties.

   The district is bordered by the Kern County line on the north, the San
   Gabriel Mountains to the south, the San Bernardino County line to the
   east and the Sierra Nevada Mountains on the west. With approximately
   320,000 residents, the AVAPCD ranks tenth in population among the
   States 35 air districts.

   Local Staffing
   AVAPCDs local office is operated by a full-time staff of three
   consisting of an Operations Manager, an Air Quality Specialist and a
   Secretary. The Air Pollution Control Officer (APCO) and Deputy APCO
   divide their time between the AVAPCD and the MDAQMD. These officers can
   always be reached by calling the local office number, (661) 723-8070

   Additionally a district staff of 40 employees based in MDAQMDs
   Victorville headquarters will provide support services to the citizens
   and industries of the AVAPCD.

   District Services
   Permitting - Any business that affects air quality or uses equipment to
   control air pollution must have an air quality permit. These permits
   specify the conditions under which the business or equipment may
   operate in order to assure compliance with air pollution laws, as well
   as protect public health. The permit also facilitates the development
   of an accurate emissions inventory of stationary sources.

   After a new permit application has been reviewed and approved by an Air
   Quality Engineer, an Authority to Construct is issued to the facility.
   Once the facility has been deemed in compliance with applicable permit
   requirements, a Permit to Operate is issued. Air quality permits are
   renewed annually, or when a modification - for example, a change of
   ownership - necessitates a revision to the permit.

   Inspections - Air Quality Specialists conduct on-site inspections of
   permitted facilities to ensure compliance with air quality laws and
   permit conditions. If an infraction of air quality laws or regulations
   is found, a Notice of Violation (NOV) may be issued. The NOV requires
   correction of the violation along with a fine based on the severity of
   the violation. The philosophy of the AVAPCD is to encourage regulatory
   compliance through education whenever possible. However, penalties can
   be severe for repeat offenders.

   Air Quality Specialists also investigate public complaints of suspected
   air quality nuisances and violations. To report an air quality problem,
   call the Districts toll-free complaint line (888) 723-8070 anytime.

   Conformance with State and Federal Mandates - State and Federal laws
   require the district to develop cost-effective plans and programs to
   meet ambient air quality standards. Further, the District must show
   progress in reducing air-polluting emissions. District rules become
   part of the state plan to meet federal air quality standards.

   Local industry concerns regarding the imposition of the same stringent
   regulatory requirements in the Antelope Valley as in the highly
   polluted Los Angeles Basin was a driving force behind the creation of
   separate air district for the area. By working closely with the
   California Air Resources Board, the U.S. Environmental Protection
   Agency, local and regional planning agencies, and business and
   industry, the AVAPCD will be able to develop pollution control measures
   which protect local air quality, address local concerns and promote
   sustainable economic development.

   Technical and educational assistance for new and existing businesses is
   also available through the Transportation and Small Business
   Coordinator to help business owners understand and comply with
   environmental regulations.

   Air Quality Surveillance - Air Quality Instrument Technicians operate
   and maintain air-monitoring equipment at key locations throughout the
   entire Mojave Desert Air Basin, including a certified monitoring site
   in Lancaster. These monitoring stations measure criteria pollutants
   such as ozone (a major component of smog), oxides of nitrogen, carbon
   monoxide and fine particulates. Data collected by the surveillance team
   is used to chart the Districts progress toward the attainment of State
   and Federal ambient air quality standards, and to ascertain local air
   quality trends.

   Community Relations - The Community Relations & Education (CRE) Office
   provides community outreach, media relations and public educational
   services. To this end, CRE staff is responsible for the development and
   dissemination of public information materials, including the district
   newsletter. Through this office, speakers on air quality topics a
   available to schools, public groups, government organizations and
   business associations. CRE staff also represents the AVAPCD at local
   conferences, trade shows and community events to showcase the Districts
   role in protecting and enhancing local air quality.

   Community Relations is also responsible fro coordinating the AVAPCDs
   Pollution Prevention (P2) program. P2 represents a proactive
   educational approach to reducing pollution at its source, which
   concurrently results in economic benefits to participating facilities.

   Executive Staff
   Charles L. Chuck Fryxell is the AVAPCD APCO. He brings to the District
   9 years experience as APCO of the Mojave Desert AQMD. As APCO for the
   former San Bernardino County APCD, Fryxell oversaw the planning and
   creation of the current MDAQMD, which was created in a manner similar
   to that of the AVAPCD. Prior to joining the MDAQMD, he served as APCO
   for the Great Basin Unified APCD. Fryxell holds a Bachelors Degree in
   Health Science with a minor in Business Administration. He is a Past
   President and current board member of the California Air Pollution
   Control Officers Association and locally also served as Chair of the
   California Desert Air Working Group 1989 through 1994.

   Eldon Heaston, Deputy APCO, began his career with the MDAQMD in 1991,
   following 20 years of experience in oil refining, industrial hygiene
   and most notably, as an environmental manager at Edwards Air Force
   Base. Heaston has more than 10 years experience working with industry
   in and around the Antelope Valley. He is also a faculty member of
   California State University, San Bernardino, the institution where he
   earned his Bachelor of Science Degree.

    [ Air Quality ] • [ In The News ] • [ Events ] • [ Board & Meetings ] •
                          [ Kid's Section ] • [ Rules ]
      [ Applications/Forms ] • [ District Information ] • [ Transportation
                              Programs ] • [ Links ]

                  Antelope Valley Air Quality Management District
                           43301 Division St. Suite 206
                                Lancaster, CA 93539
                         661-723-8070 • 661-723-3450 Fax
