http://www.doi.gov/news/011231.html

                       U.S. Department of the Interior

                              [news_header.jpg]

Bureau of Indian Affairs

                                                                                          Contact: Nedra Darling

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 31, 2001

                                                                                                    202-219-4152

                               MEDIA ADVISORY

                        Third Consultation Meeting On
                   Improving Indian Trust Asset Management
                     Set for January 3 in Oklahoma City

   (WASHINGTON, D.C.) - Interior Assistant Secretary - Indian Affairs Neal
   A. McCaleb and Deputy Assistant Secretary Wayne R. Smith will meet with
   tribal leaders on Thursday, January 3, 2002, in Oklahoma City, Okla.,
   at the third in a series of consultation meetings on the Department's
   plan to improve the management of Indian trust assets. The meeting will
   be held at the Westin Hotel (1 North Broadway) starting at 9:00 a.m.
   (CST).

   On November 15, 2001, the Department announced plans to transfer and
   consolidate Indian trust asset management functions currently
   administered by the Bureau of Indian Affairs and other Interior
   agencies within a new Bureau of Indian Trust Assets Management. The
   Department also announced the establishment of an Assistant Secretary
   for Indian Trust Assets Management to oversee BITAM and a new Office of
   Indian Trust Transition to implement the transfer and consolidation
   plans.

   Consultation meetings also will be held on January 10 in Rapid City,
   S.D.; January 17 in San Diego, Calif.; January 23 in Anchorage, Alaska;
   and February 1 in Washington, D.C (Arlington, Va.). A notice with
   meeting dates and locations was published in the December 11 Federal
   Register.
   WHO:         Interior Assistant Secretary - Indian Affairs Neal A.
       McCaleb and
                          Deputy Assistant Secretary - Indian Affairs
       Wayne R. Smith.
       WHEN:      9:00 a.m. (CST), Thursday, January 3, 2002.
       WHAT:       Interior Department tribal consultation meeting on
       improving the management of
                           Indian trust assets.
       WHERE:    Westin Hotel, 1 North Broadway, Oklahoma City, Okla.

                                    -BIA-

    You can get to the Department of the Interior from here

    You can also view the index of press releases

    U.S. Department of the Interior, Washington, DC, USA
