http://sofia-usra.arc.nasa.gov/Science/sci.html

   go to SOFIA Home page skip to sub menu selection for Info for
   Researchers
   go to About SOFIA Info For Researchers link go to Education & Outreach
   go to News & Updates go to Multimedia Gallery go to Site Search
   other navigational links


                             back to Info for Researchers overview page
        info for researchers icon, skip sub menu and go to content
                                                        skip to content
                                                  go to sofia telescope
                                          go to first light instruments
                                                    go to sofia science
                                                 go to mission schedule
                                      go to e newsletter for scientists
                                           go to meetings and workshops
                                            go to selected publications
                                      go to applying for observing time
                                                     red horizonal line




   overview page for Info for Researchers
   red horizontal line
   ""


      SOFIA will open a new era in astronomy: it will offer astronomers a
      unique platform, providing regular access to the entire MIR/FIR
      wavelength range between 5µm and 300 µm, part of which is otherwise
      inaccessible from the ground.

      As demonstrated by the KAO (Kuiper Airborne Observatory), IRAS
      (Infrared Astronomical Satellite) and ISO (Infrared Space Observatory),
      infrared radiation characterizes a multitude of rich and varied
      physical processes, and reveals astronomical phenomena occurring in
      otherwise hidden regions of the cosmos. SOFIA will exploit and extend
      this scientific legacy by means of sensitive, high spectral and spatial
      resolution observations spanning the infrared domain. Topics to be
      addressed by SOFIA users include:

        * Interstellar cloud physics and star formation in our galaxy.
        * Proto-planetary disks and planet formation in nearby star systems.
        * Origin and evolution of biogenic atoms, molecules, and solids.
        * Composition and structure of planetary atmospheres and rings, and
          comets.
        * Star formation, dynamics, and chemical content of other galaxies.
        * The dynamic activity in the center of the Milky Way.
        * Ultra-luminous IR Galaxies (ULIRGS) as a key component of the early
          universe.

      Besides this contribution to science progress, SOFIA will be a major
      factor in the development of observational techniques, of new
      instrumentations and in the education of young scientists and teachers
      in the discipline of infrared astronomy.


   Curator: Logicon Sterling Federal
   Last Updated:   footer_navigation
   red horizontal line
       footer_logo
       NASA Website Privacy Statement
