http://aro.oar.noaa.gov/ARO_45_Partners.html

   [spacer.gif] [spacer.gif] [spacer.gif]
   Image of a sea gull in flight Arctic Research Office Banner
   graphical arch element

Partners

     * Arctic Monitoring & Assessment Program
     * Arctic Council
     * CIFAR & IARC
     * Interagency Cooperation


   Arctic Monitoring & Assessment Program
   The principal purposes of the Arctic Monitoring and Assessment Program
   (AMAP) are to document levels and trends of environmental contaminants;
   assess the effects of contaminants on Arctic biota and ecosystems;
   anticipate adverse biological, chemical and physical changes in Arctic
   ecosystems; and evaluate potential risks from environmental
   contamination to Arctic residents and ecosystems and recommend actions
   required to reduce such risks. AMAP is also concerned with potential
   impacts on the Arctic region of climate change and increased
   ultraviolet radiation.

   The AMAP Working Group is one of five working groups under the
   eight-nation Arctic Council.

   Arctic Council
   The Arctic Council is an intergovernmental forum that addresses the
   common concerns and challenges faced by the Arctic governments and the
   people of the Arctic. The main activities of the Council focus on
   protection of the Arctic environment and sustainable development as a
   means of improving the conomic, social and cultural well-being of the
   north. The U.S. Government chaired the Council during 1998-2000. The
   Government of Finland is the chair of the Council for the period
   2000-2002. Visit the Arctic Council website for more information.

   CIFAR & IARC
   The Cooperative Institute for Arctic Research (CIFAR) is a partnership
   between NOAA and the University of Alaska Fairbanks to promote
   cooperation between scientists at the University and NOAA laboratories.
   CIFAR works most closely with NOAA's Pacific Marine Environmental
   Laboratory and the National Marine Fisheries Service. Details may be
   found on the CIFAR website.

   The International Arctic Research Center (IARC) has been established at
   the University of Alaska Fairbanks to serve as a focal point for
   international cooperation in global change research in the Arctic.
   Details may be found on the IARC website.

   Interagency Cooperation
   NOAA's Arctic Research Office cooperates with a large number of
   federal, state and local agencies, educational institutions, and
   international organizations that are involved in Arctic research.

   In FY 2000 and 2001, for example, ARO combined some of its resources
   with those of other agencies to help undertake an Arctic Climate Impact
   Assessment. This assessment will culminate in 2004 with a peer-reviewed
   report on the state of knowledge of climate variability and change in
   the Arctic, a set of possible climate change scenarios, and an analysis
   of the impacts on ecosystems, infrastructure and socio-economic systems
   that will likely result from various climate change scenarios.

   In FY 2001, ARO used some of its resources to begin implementation of
   an interagency Arctic climate science effort called SEARCH (Study of
   Environmental Arctic Change). An interagency plan was developed by a
   working group of program managers from NOAA, NSF, NASA, EPA, DOD, DOE,
   DOI, the Smithsonian Institution, and the Arctic Research Commission. A
   report containing the plan was approved by the Interagency Arctic
   Research Policy Committee.

   The first part of the interagency SEARCH plan identified ten Arctic
   research activities relevant to SEARCH that individual agencies were
   already scheduled to implement in FY 2001. It proposed that these
   activities be carried out in a coordinated fashion. The ten activities
   are outlined in Appendix 2 of the working group report. IARPC also
   asked the Interagency Working Group to prepare a coordinated
   implementation plan for FY2003. As a first step, the Working Group
   prepared an implementation framework for 2003 and beyond that will be
   reviewed over the coming months.

   The draft SEARCH Science Plan is available on the SEARCH website.



   Graphic depicting the NOAA Logo, NOAA Research Identifyier, Privacy
   Notice, and Disclaimer


      || HOME | Overview | People | Projects | Happenings | Opportunities |
                                   Partners ||
                        || Privacy Notice | Disclaimer ||
