http://www.childstats.gov/intnlindex.asp

              ChildStats.gov International Comparisons

              America's Children 2001
              International Comparisons
              Search Related Resources
              Nurturing Fatherhood report
              Other Forum Publications
              What's new?
              What is the Forum?
              Who are the Forum members?
              Whom can I contact?
              About this site
              Submit questions and comments on Forum activities
   Help
   HOME

International Comparisons

   Welcome to the Childstats' International Comparisons page. This page
   provides links to tables and databases comparing the well-being of
   children in the U.S. with those in other countries. These links are
   organized into the following major domains:
     * Population and Family Characteristics
     * Economic Security
     * Health
     * Behavior and Social Environment
     * Education

   Links to international comparative data are provided that mirror
   selected indicators in the report: Americas Children: Key National
   Indicators of Well-being. The most recent, objective, and highest
   quality data has been selected for each indicator presented. Additional
   links are provided under each domain to other Web sites and reports
   with international data.

   Sources include U.S. statistical agencies that are members of the
   Forum, (Census Bureau, Bureau of Labor Statistics, National Center for
   Health Statistics) as well as international data collection efforts
   undertaken by the United Nations (UN), World Health Organization (WHO),
   and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD),
   International Association for the Evaluation of Educational Achievement
   (IEA) and international data harmonizing efforts such as the Luxembourg
   Income Study (LIS). International comparative data are not available
   for all indicators in Americas Children. Data and points of view that
   are presented are not necessarily endorsed by the Federal Interagency
   Forum on Child and Family Statistics.
   Back to Top

   America's Children International Comparisons Search Resources Other
   Forum Publications
   What's New? What is the Forum? Who are the Forum Members? Contacts
   Nurturing Fatherhood Report About this Site Feedback Help Order Reports
   HOME
