http://www.loganco.gov/commissioners/AGENDAS.htm

                                    HOME

                             [courthousetin.gif]

                           RETURN TO COMMISSIONERS



     [commissioners.gif]

                                 CURRENT AGENDA


                      Tuesday, January 15, 2002 9:00 a.m.
    Logan County Central Services Building, 508 S. 10^th Avenue, Sterling,
                                   CO 80751

   I.    Call to Order and Reading of the Minutes
  II.    Old Business
      A. The Board of Commissioners will consider making the following
         appointments:

         °Chairman of the Board.
         °Vice Chairman of the Board.
         Personal Secretary to the Board.
         °County Planner.
         °County Attorney.
         °Attorney for Social Services Department.
         °Official County Newspaper.
         °Emergency Management Coordinator.
         °Veterans Service Officer.
         °Centennial Mental Health Board of Directors Commissioner
         Representative.
         °NE Colorado Transportation Authority Board Commissioner
         Representative.
         °Chamber of Commerce Board of Directors Commissioner Board Member.
         °Board of Adjustment Commissioner Board Member and Alternate.
         °NE Colorado Association of Local Governments Appointment and
         Alternate.
         °NE Colorado Health Department Board of Directors Board Member.
         °CCI Casualty and Property Insurance Pool Representative and Alternate.
         °CCI Workers Compensation Pool Representative and Alternate.
         °Designated Safety Representative to CCI Workers Compensation Pool.
         °Area Agency on Aging Commissioner Appointment.
 III.    New Business
      A. Consideration of the approval of an agreement between Logan County
         and Kenneth
         Guenzi for lease of land for operation of a gravel permit.
      B. Consideration of the approval of an application for a Subdivision
         Exemption on behalf
         of Flaye Ann Rogers to create a 12.38 acre parcel from a 480 acre
         parcel located on
         property legally described as NW1/4 and E1//2 of Sec 36, T11N, R50W.
  IV.    Miscellaneous Business/Announcements
      A. County Offices will be closed January 21, 2002 in observance of
         Martin Luther King
         Junior Day.
      B. The next regular business meeting will be scheduled for Tuesday,
         January 22, 2002.
   V.    Adjournment
