http://allen.senate.gov/PressOffice/AllenAnnouncesNewLegislativeCommunicationsTeamAssignments.html


                             [USEMAP:head2.jpg]


   For Release: Tuesday, January 22, 2002
   Contact: Jay Timmons
   (202) 224-4170

                               Allen Announces
              New Legislative, Communications Team Assignments
    - Unger Named Counsel and Legislative Director; Raymond to Add Senior
                 Policy Advisor to Communications Director;
                   Cantrell to Serve as Press Secretary -

   WASHINGTON, DC - Gearing up for the 2002 session, United States Senator
   George Allen today announced his legislative and communications team.
   Paul Unger has been named Counsel and Legislative Director, Matt
   Raymond will serve as Communications Director and Senior Policy
   Advisor, and Carrie Cantrell has been named Press Secretary. Unger,
   Raymond and Cantrell are current members of the Senator's staff. The
   new assignments are effective February 1.

   Paul Unger currently serves as the Senator's Counsel. Prior to joining
   the Allen team, he served as Counsel to Senator Conrad Burns (R-Mont.).
   Unger was former Majority Staff Director of the U.S. House of
   Representatives' Agriculture Committee during former Congressman Bob
   Smith's (R-Or.) term as Chairman of the Committee. He also served as
   Senior Campaign Advisor to Senator Gordon Smith (R-Or.) in 1996 during
   the special election and general election. Before his involvement in
   politics, Unger was an attorney in private practice. He is a 1974
   graduate of Notre Dame and a 1978 graduate of the Notre Dame School of
   Law.
   Matt Raymond currently serves as Communications Director. Prior to
   joining the Allen team, he served in 2000 as Chief of Staff to former
   U.S. Rep. Rick Hill (R-Mont.), where he also performed press and
   communications duties. In addition, Raymond served for five years in
   the press office of Sen. Conrad Burns (R-Mont.), first as Deputy Press
   Secretary and then for four years as Communications Director. Before
   coming to Washington, D.C., Raymond worked as a television news
   reporter at WIFR-TV in Rockford, Ill.; KSFY-TV in Sioux Falls, S.D.;
   and in Helena, Mont., where he covered state government and politics as
   State Capitol Bureau Chief for the Montana Television Network. He is a
   1993 graduate of the Medill School of Journalism at Northwestern
   University in Evanston, Ill.

   Carrie Cantrell currently serves as Assistant Communications Director.
   She left the Allen staff for several weeks in 2001 to serve as Press
   Secretary for the successful campaign of Jerry Kilgore for Virginia
   Attorney General and returned to the Allen office after Election Day.
   Cantrell served as Deputy Press Secretary during Allen's successful bid
   for the U.S. Senate. Prior to joining the Allen campaign in May 1999,
   she served as Executive Editor at the Science Museum of Virginia.
   During then-Governor Allen's Administration, Cantrell served as Editor
   and Legislative Liaison in the Office of the Secretary of the
   Commonwealth. She began her involvement in politics during Allen's 1993
   gubernatorial campaign as an intern. She is a 1995 graduate of Virginia
   Commonwealth University in Richmond, Va.

   Senator Allen said that he is pleased to have these three experienced
   aides heading up his legislative and communications team. "As we begin
   the new legislative session this year, I am fortunate to have Paul,
   Matt and Carrie with such tremendous experience working on my Senate
   team so that we can efficiently and effectively serve the people of
   Virginia."

                                     ###

                       Office of Senator George Allen
                  Russell Senate Office Building, Room 204
                           Washington, D.C. 20510
                            Phone: (202) 224-4024
                             Fax: (202) 224-5432
                                Send us email
