http://www.bettis.gov/careeropps.html


   A submarine in a flooded dry dock and Link to Skip Navigation Links
   Bettis Laboratory
   Home
   Send Us Your Resume
   Career Opportunities
   Campus Interviews
   Summer Intern Program
   What We Do
   Why Choose Bettis
   About our Communities
   Diversity
   Employee Benefits
   FAQs

Career Opportunities

   We invite you to consider a career with the Bettis Laboratory where you
   can experience continual challenge, work with some of this nation's
   brightest and most dedicated engineers and scientists, and make a
   significant contribution to our country's defense. Laboratory employees
   are involved in all facets of the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program,
   from basic research and design, through support of the operating U.S.
   fleet of surface ships and submarines. This breadth of responsibility
   provides Bettis employees with many paths to follow throughout their
   career.

   The future of the Bettis Laboratory is promising and will continue to
   offer tremendous opportunities for enthusiastic people who want
   challenge and the chance to make an impact on something important. Our
   continued success will depend upon hiring the right people. We
   encourage you to take the time to learn if a career with Bettis is
   right for you.

   Bettis employs people with a variety of skills. Specific jobs are
   advertised on www.monster.com (click on "Search Jobs" and enter
   "Bechtel Bettis, Inc." under keywords). A general listing of the skills
   we seek on a regular basis include:
     * Engineers (all disciplines)
     * Material Scientists
     * Physicists
     * Chemists
     * Mathematicians
     * Computer Scientists/Computer Engineers
     * Software Engineers
     * Technical Writers
     * Technicians
     * Drafters/Animators

   Opportunities are available for entry-level and experienced candidates.
   We invite you to send us your resume.

   Bettis also seeks candidates for its summer intern program during the
   fall of each year.

   All candidates must be U.S. citizens. Applicants selected will be
   subject to a Federal background investigation and must meet eligibility
   requirements for access to classified matter.

                        An Equal Opportunity Employer
