http://www.whitehousedrugpolicy.gov/publications/pdf/fy2002pme.pdf

   OFFICE OF NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL POLICY FY 2002 Annual Performance Plan
   and FY 2000 Annual Program Performance Report Submitted under the
   Auspices of the Government Performance and Results Act Executive Office
   of the President June 2001 FY 2002 Annual Performance Plan FY 2000
   Program Performance Report Table of Contents Preface 1 Section I.
   Mission Statement 1 Section II. Goals and Objectives 2 Section III.
   Means for Achieving Goals and Objectives 3 Section IV. Performance
   Targets, Resources, Activities and Verification of Results 4 Section
   IV. A. National Drug Control Strategy -- Strategy Development 4 Section
   IV. B. Implementing the National Drug Control Strategy 5 Section IV. C.
   Evaluating the National Drug Control Strategy -- The Performance
   Measures of Effectiveness System 7 Section IV. D. Budget Formulation
   and Oversight 10 Section IV. E. Office of National Drug Control Policy
   Resources 12 Section IV. F. 1. High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area
   (HIDTA) Program - FY 2002 Performance Plan 14 - FY 2000 Performance
   Report 25 Section IV. F. 2. Counterdrug Technology Assessment Center
   (CTAC) - FY 2002 Performance Plan 31 - FY 2000 Performance Report 37
   Section IV. F. 3. National Youth Anti-Drug Media Campaign - FY 2002
   Performance Plan 40 - FY 2000 Performance Report 49 Section IV. F. 4.
   Drug Free Communities Support Program - FY 2002 Performance Plan 57 -
   FY 2000 Performance Report 64 Appendix A. Strategic Goals and
   Objectives of the National Drug Control Strategy 66 Appendix B. High
   Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Designated High Intensity Drug
   Trafficking Areas 68 HIDTA Sites 69 HIDTA Developmental Standards 70
   Appendix C. Points of Contact 71 OFFICE OF NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL POLICY
   FY 2002 Annual Performance Plan and FY 2000 Program Performance Report
   PREFACE In accordance with the Government effort of numerous federal
   agencies, state Performance and Results Act (GPRA) and local
   governments, the private sector, requirements, this Annual Performance
   Plan society at large, and foreign governments. accompanied the Office
   of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) budget request for By law,
   ONDCP's principal purpose is to FY 2002. The Plan links the long-term
   establish policies, priorities, and objectives goals outlined in the
   ONDCP Strategic Plan for the United States drug control program to its
   day-to-day activities; it describes what through the National Drug
   Control Strategy ONDCP proposes to accomplish during (Strategy).
   Clearly, no one agency or sector FY 2002 with its budget. The
   accompanying can achieve the goals of the Strategy and Program
   Performance Report reviews the ONDCP's primary role is to guide the
   success in achieving the FY 2000 disparate efforts of numerous agencies
   by performance goals. coordinating and focusing them on national
   priorities and objectives. This policy- This Annual Plan states ONDCP's
   overall making and oversight role, however, mission and goals as well
   as those of the consumes only a small proportion--only four specific
   programs ONDCP manages. about five percent--of ONDCP's annual The
   national goals strive to produce budget. ONDCP applies the remainder of
   its outcomes both nationally and budget to the four drug control
   programs it internationally. Because of this, their directly manages in
   support of the overall accomplishment requires the coordinated
   Strategy. Section I. MISSION STATEMENT MISSION Reduce the demand,
   availability, and consequences of illegal drug use within the United
   States From a broad perspective, the ONDCP's Law Enforcement Act of
   1994 (P.L. 103- mission is to reduce the demand, 322) amended this
   mission by dropping the availability, and consequences of illegal
   "drug-free" requirement, changing it to drug use within the United
   States. Initially include reducing the consequences of drug the
   Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988 (P.L. 100- use and trafficking. 690, as
   amended) established ONDCP and charged it with creating a drug-free The
   mission of ONDCP was further America. The Violent Crime Control and
   expanded by Executive Order No. 12880 (1993) and Executive Orders Nos.
   12992 (HIDTA) program, along with and 13023 (1996), which assign ONDCP
   improvements in HIDTA management responsibility within the Executive
   Branch of government for leading drug control · Greater demand
   reduction activities policy and developing an outcome given to the
   Counterdrug Technology measurement system. The Executive Orders
   Assessment Center also charter the President's Drug Policy Council and
   establish the ONDCP Director · Statutory authority for the President's
   as the President's chief spokesperson for Council on Counter-Narcotics
   drug control. · Increased reporting to Congress on drug control
   activities The Office of National Drug Control Policy Reauthorization
   Act of 1998 (P.L. 105-277) · Reorganization of ONDCP to allow expands
   ONDCP's mandate and authority, more effective national leadership
   setting forth additional reporting · Establishment of a Parents
   Advisory requirements and expectations, including: Council on Drug
   Abuse · Improved coordination among national · Development of a
   long-term national drug control program agencies drug strategy ·
   Implementation of a robust performance ONDCP is responsible for
   coordinating the measurement system implementation of the Strategy by
   numerous federal agencies, state and local · Commitment to a five-year
   national drug governments, the private sector, and foreign control
   program budget governments. The combined efforts of these · Permanent
   authority granted to the High numerous entities, most of which are not
   Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas accountable to ONDCP, directly
   determine the degree of success with which the Strategy is implemented
   over the long-term. Section II. GOALS AND OBJECTIVES The Strategy
   establishes the overall mission borders, drug-supply reduction and and
   framework for all federal drug-control international cooperation. Most
   importantly, agencies. The Strategy is a long-term plan the Strategy
   integrates efforts in these areas to reduce drug abuse in the United
   States by to generate a whole that is greater than the decreasing drug
   use (demand), drug sum of its parts. These goals, along with the
   availability (supply), and the consequences objectives, guide ONDCP's
   management of associated with drug abuse and trafficking. the federal
   and private sector agencies and organizations committed to reducing
   drug The Strategy's five goals and thirty-one abuse and its
   consequences. ONDCP objectives (Complete list at Appendix A) manages
   the Performance Measures of constitute a comprehensive, balanced effort
   Effectiveness (PME) system that details the encompassing prevention,
   treatment, targets that gauge progress toward each of research, law
   enforcement, shielding our the Strategy's goals and objectives. 2 Goals
   of the National Drug Control Strategy 1. Educate and enable America's
   youth to reject illegal drugs as well as alcohol and tobacco. 2.
   Increase the safety of America's citizens by substantially reducing
   drug-related crime and violence. 3. Reduce health and social costs to
   the public of illegal drug use. 4. Shield America's air, land, and sea
   frontiers from the drug threat. 5. Break foreign and domestic drug
   sources of supply. Section III. MEANS FOR ACHIEVING GOALS AND
   OBJECTIVES To fulfill its mission, ONDCP performs the 2) Counterdrug
   Technology Assess- following major functions and activities: ment
   Center · Develops the Strategy, refining it 3) National Youth Anti-Drug
   Media annually to reflect new threats and Campaign challenges 4)
   Drug-Free Communities Support Program · Oversees drug control programs
   in accordance with Strategy goals and The four major drug
   control-related objectives through leadership, policy programs that
   ONDCP directly manages direction, and consensus-building comprise only
   a small portion of the · Assesses progress toward achieving combined
   nation-wide resources directed at the goals and objectives combating
   illicit drug use by numerous federal, state, and local drug control
   efforts. · Reviews drug control agency ONDCP continuously evaluates the
   budgets and annually develops a Strategy's effectiveness via the PME
   consolidated federal drug control budget system. The PME system
   includes targets · Directs four programs: against which Strategy
   implementation is 1) High Intensity Drug Trafficking evaluated and
   adjusted as appropriate. Areas 3 Section IV. PERFORMANCE TARGETS,
   RESOURCES, ACTIVITIES, AND VERIFICATION OF RESULTS The primary measure
   of the drug control Ongoing progress evaluations and feedback
   community's effectiveness is the extent to will guide agency efforts.
   which Strategy goals and objectives are achieved. This is described
   annually in the ONDCP's own operations are a very small Performance
   Measures of Effectiveness part of the Strategy; its budget is less than
   Report, the most recent being PME 2001. two percent of the total drug
   control budget. Accomplishing this is especially difficult because some
   fifty federal agencies play a role in achieving the performance targets
   established by the Strategy, as do state and ... and ONDCP's budget is
   a small proportion of the total local government partners, private
   citizens, Federal drug control budget and the international community.
   By leading interagency dialogue to identify Only a small proportion of
   common outcomes and contributory actions, ONDCP's budget is used to
   formulate and implement the ONDCP has made significant progress overall
   National Drug Control Strategy toward addressing joint accountability
   among the federal agencies responsible for accomplishing the Strategy.
   To focus its partners on results, ONDCP Most of ONDCP's budget is for
   programs. instituted the PME system. This system Only about five
   percent of its budget is for seeks to integrate federal agency programs
   operations; the remainder supports the four and budgets toward
   established performance programs that it manages. These targets that
   define desirable end states for relationships are highlighted above.
   See the Strategy's goals and objectives. Section IV.E. for FY 02 budget
   request. Section IV. A. NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL STRATEGY  STRATEGY
   DEVELOPMENT Since passage of the 1988 Anti-Drug Abuse abroad, at our
   borders, and within the United Act, eleven formal versions of the
   Strategy States. Each approach also shared the have been drafted, all
   of which defined the commitment to maintain and enforce anti- reduction
   in demand for illegal drugs as a drug laws. These strategies tied
   policy to an main focus of drug control efforts. The increasingly
   scientific, research-based body various strategies confirmed that no
   single of knowledge. approach could rescue the nation from the cycle of
   drug abuse. Drug prevention, In 1996, the Strategy established five
   major education, and treatment must be goals as the basis for a
   coherent, rational, complemented by drug supply reduction long-term
   national effort. This Strategy was 4 developed using an extensive
   consultation Released with the Strategy was a report on process that
   included state and local the PME system. In FY 2002, ONDCP's
   governments, non-government organizations output for this function will
   be the (NGOs), and drug program experts. In 1998 development of the FY
   2002 Annual Report ONDCP developed and released its ten-year that
   describes modifications to the Strategy drug control Strategy that
   provides a for the year. comprehensive plan for reducing drug use and
   its consequences. It focuses on ONDCP also submits a Classified Annex
   to shrinking America's demand for drugs, the Strategy to Congress on an
   annual basis through treatment and prevention, and to address the
   President's interagency plan attacking the supply of drugs through law
   for countering international drug cultivation, enforcement and
   international cooperation. production, and trafficking. Section IV. B.
   IMPLEMENTING THE NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL STRATEGY The creation of ONDCP
   was a timely ONDCP undertakes coordination through a response to the
   fragmentation and overlap of variety of avenues including, but not
   limited the federal government's drug control to, the following:
   programs and budgets. ONDCP's "value- added" rests in its coordination
   of numerous · Office of Demand Reduction drug control programs in order
   to make Interagency Working Group (IWG) them function together in an
   integrated manner to achieve the Strategy's goals. It · U.S./Mexico
   Bilateral Demand provides an integrated assessment of the Reduction
   Conference community's efforts. · The President's Crime Prevention
   Interagency Coordination. ONDCP's Council oversight responsibilities
   involve more than 50 federal agencies and Cabinet departments · The
   Coordinating Council for Juvenile as well as their state and local
   partner Justice and Delinquency Prevention agencies. Coordinating and
   overseeing such a vast array of federal anti-drug policies and · The
   Interagency Narcotic Treatment programs involves providing policy
   Policy Review Board guidance to focus the varied activities of these
   agencies. Such coordination is · The Annual National Meeting on
   integral to achieving the Strategy's goals and Coordination of Offender
   Substance objectives (Appendix A). Abuse Treatment Services 5 ·
   Prevention Through Service Summit Action Plans and Logic Models. Logic
   Models identify and document causal · Interagency Working Group on
   media relationships between government and non- initiatives
   governmental interventions and desired results. These form the basis
   for deciding · The U.S./Mexico High Level Contact how to achieve each
   target. ONDCP Group on Drug Control manages an ongoing analysis of the
   factors, activities, interventions, and gaps associated · Counter
   Narcotics Interagency Working with the achievement of each target Group
   for Drug Control (CN-IWG) maintained in the logic models. It
   facilitates the development of interagency Action · Supply Reduction
   Working Group Plans detailing specific items that must be (SRWG)
   accomplished, and when, to achieve the target. Based on feedback from
   ongoing · Caribbean Interdiction Working Group program evaluations,
   ONDCP, through the (CIWG) working groups, continually refines the logic
   models and action plans. · High Level-Contact Working Group for Drug
   Control In a fiscally unconstrained environment it would be possible to
   pursue every · Central America Ministerial intervention listed in the
   logic model and to Conferences develop new actions that remedy gaps
   identified through ongoing assessment. However, the action plans are
   developed · Caribbean Joint Committee on Law and Justice within budget
   constraints around the interventions that are most critical to the
   achievement of each target. · Multilateral Hemispheric Drug Control
   Conference Glide Paths  Getting There from Here. As a general rule and,
   in the absence of · High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area comprehensive
   data, the expected rate of Conferences progress toward achieving each
   target was assumed to occur in equal increments (a so- Interagency
   Coordination -- Steering called "linear glide path") when the targets
   Groups. In addition to coordinating with were formulated. However, if a
   logic model each federal agency, ONDCP also manages or action plan
   provides a rational reason for interagency working groups that focus on
   non-linear progress toward a goal, the optimal ways of achieving the
   PME targets. interagency group will establish a These groups refined
   what the PME working corresponding non-linear glide path. groups
   developed the previous year-logic models and action plans for Goal One
   and Broadening the Base. The ultimate impact Goal Three targets. ONDCP
   is moving in a of the Strategy depends on ONDCP's ability similar
   direction with the other targets. This to align the action of
   non-federal effort identifies systematic "road maps" for participants
   with the attainment of national the federal agencies to achieve
   long-term goals. The federal government cannot drug control targets.
   achieve the objectives in the Strategy 6 without the support of the
   fifty states, the To help enhance the drug control efforts of District
   of Columbia, U.S. territories, and various jurisdictions (state, local,
   etc.), the thousands of cities, counties, and ONDCP has begun to
   facilitate Performance localities threatened by illegal drugs. State
   Partnerships with states and localities. The governments, for example,
   have enormous long-term objective of these Partnerships is potential
   for addressing the drug problem. the reduction of drug abuse and drug
   They administer the school systems, channel trafficking through
   counterdrug efforts that money and resources to specific needs, and are
   tailored to each locale. ONDCP is educate citizens about the dangers of
   illegal working to support each jurisdiction's drugs. State funds
   account for much of the efforts and to facilitate the requisite
   support, drug prevention and treatment spending. where needed, from the
   appropriate federal Counties and cities also play an equally and
   non-federal agencies. Over the long- important role. Ultimately, all
   levels of term, the aggregate effect of these focused government must
   become partners with the efforts will contribute to the achievement of
   federal government in developing a the performance targets articulated
   in comprehensive and coordinated drug control ONDCP's annual report on
   the PME system. effort. Bringing this about is complicated by ONDCP
   plans to build on the early the relative independence states have from
   partnerships started with Maryland, Oregon the federal government. and
   Houston, Texas. Section IV. C. EVALUATING THE NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL
   STRATEGY- THE PERFORMANCE MEASURES OF EFFECTIVENESS SYSTEM In 1998
   ONDCP instituted the Performance The General Approach. The PME Measures
   of Effectiveness system, for framework comprises a comprehensive and
   managing and assessing the effectiveness of balanced effort
   encompassing drug the National Drug Control Strategy. This prevention,
   treatment, domestic law system incorporates a systemic orientation,
   enforcement, interdiction, and international use of causal models,
   clear identification of programs. It establishes performance targets
   policy targets, recognition of external extending ten years into the
   future (1998- factors, and definition of measurement- 2007) and
   designates agency accountability related data requirements. It also
   takes the in the Strategy's three key impact areas: 1) initiative in
   addressing a fundamental reducing drug use, 2) reducing drug problem
   inherent in all accountability availability, and 3) reducing the
   damaging efforts-holding agencies responsible for consequences of drug
   use. The nucleus of outcomes over which they have limited the PME
   system consists of ninety-nine control. targets assessing progress
   toward each of the five goals and thirty-one objectives. 7 Performance
   Measurement Framework Measures Targets Objectives Goals Strategy
   Targets def ine desired end- states with which to compare Objectives
   actual perf ormance. Impact def ine Major The purpose of a National
   Targets ref lect impact on the Measures Lines of represent means f ive
   Strategy Goals; the Drug Control Strategy is to Goals def ine the
   Action to remaining Performance (v ariables and reduce drug use
   (demand), Major Directiv es or achiev e the drug av ailability
   (supply), and Targets show progress ev ents) for Directions of the
   desired tracking progress toward the 31 Objectiv es. Goal.
   consequences. Strategy . toward targets. Annual targets have been
   developed for goal and its associated objectives, targets, each
   long-term target, using a first and measures. approximation "glide
   path" to the 2002 and 2007 out-year targets. These glide paths
   Accountability through Feedback, will be regularly reviewed and refined
   Evaluation, and Teamwork. The PME based on modeling, data, and other
   process is more than collecting and feedback. reporting data related to
   targets and measures. It involves evaluating how Strategy agency
   programs and policies influence the drug problem. This includes
   determining · 5 Goals the extent to which agencies, both · 31
   Objectives collectively and individually, contribute to program success
   and goal achievement. PME System · 99 Performance Targets The process
   begins with ONDCP trying to 38 Milestones ensure that each of the
   involved federal 61 Numerical agencies includes the appropriate - 157
   Measures counterdrug-related programs in their long- term Strategic and
   short-term Performance Plans; that these programs are linked to the
   Strategy; and that they have the requisite Twelve key targets in the
   system are Budgets for performing them. This ensures designated as
   Impact Targets that define that various government agencies are not the
   Strategy's desired end state and indicate working at cross-purposes
   toward the the Strategy's overall progress/success. achievement of
   desired outcomes. Future The remaining eighty-seven performance
   Evaluations of actual progress relative to targets reflect the overall
   progress toward these plans start the feedback loop that the supporting
   objectives. ONDCP's guides improvements in agency (i.e. the annual
   publication, Performance Measures Community) efforts. These four of
   Effectiveness, describes in detail each components--Strategy, Budget,
   Evaluation, 8 and Community--must be integrated if PME Progress
   Reports. Progress Reports agency efforts are to succeed. ONDCP is on
   the effectiveness of national drug control seeking to achieve and
   continuously refine efforts will be published annually. These this
   integration through its interagency reports will reflect assessments
   based working groups. ONDCP will adjust the available data. As
   additional data are made objectives, targets, and measures as available
   the reports will become more counterdrug efforts succeed and/or as new
   comprehensive and cover more Strategy challenges emerge as identified
   through objectives. The FY 2001 PME Report is the interagency
   consensus. output for this function. A Complete Picture. The PME system
   is Program Evaluation. The PME system is being developed to monitor the
   PME targets the foundation for evaluating the National and can be
   customized to meet the needs of Drug Control Strategy. However, the PME
   any state, region, or local jurisdiction system is not designed to
   evaluate the seeking to monitor its own strategy. success of any
   particular agency or program. It is a macro-level monitoring system
   that ONDCP has begun the process of examines annual progress toward the
   encouraging state and local participation Strategy's targets. ONDCP
   will supplement through the initiation of Performance Performance
   Monitoring with Program Partnerships. By seeking greater flexibility
   Evaluation for in-depth assessment of for states in return for improved
   program contributions. To determine why a performance, ONDCP seeks to
   encourage target is not being met, ONDCP will our non-federal partners
   to work with undertake interagency program evaluations federal agencies
   to meet the PME targets. that examine the logic, assumptions, programs,
   funding issues, and other Performance Monitoring. Performance
   contributory factors that affect target monitoring is designed to: 1)
   assess the achievement. Using accepted evaluation effectiveness of the
   Strategy 2) provide the methodology, the team will examine entire drug
   control community, including whether any of the following problems
   state and local governments, the private occurred: faulty logic in the
   overall policy sector, and foreign governments with critical or program
   concept, poor performance on information on what needs to be done to
   the part of one or more contributors, lack of refine policy and
   programmatic direction funding, or unrealistic targets. Since and 3)
   assist with drug program budget program evaluations involve
   considerable management at all levels. To assess the time and
   resources, they are planned only efficacy of the Strategy, ONDCP will
   when targets are not met for two to three monitor the extent to which
   each target is consecutive years. met. Such monitoring will not
   generate a "report card" for drug control agencies, but Major Challenge
    Data Availability and will be useful for them to refine their
   Collection. Since FY 1999 ONDCP has Performance Plans (agencies are
   required to been collecting and entering data for the track their own
   performance through their Strategy performance target measures. GPRA
   plans, which should include aspects However, a system encompassing so
   many of their own specific drug control missions agencies and programs
   cannot be and be consistent with the Strategy and PME implemented
   without addressing major system). stumbling blocks. The most critical 9
   challenge pertains to the lack of data: for the private sector are
   contributors in the instance, many agencies collect drug-related
   implementation of the Strategy. information (such as the amount of
   drugs seized at various points), however, Data Gap Elimination. A
   primary problem methodologies vary widely and no single in undertaking
   performance measurement is estimate provides a complete and accurate
   the lack of valid, reliable data to measure picture. progress toward
   the Strategy, goals, and objectives. In some cases, data are not Since
   no data sources exist for many of the collected consistently enough to
   permit targets, the baseline for these is unknown. national
   aggregation. In other cases, the ONDCP is working with the various
   federal data collected are not comprehensive. In yet agencies to
   analyze and prioritize data other cases, there are no data. ONDCP is
   requirements and to develop reliable data leading a Subcommittee on
   Data, Research, and consistent procedures for data collection and
   Interagency Coordination to prioritize and reporting. data needs for
   inclusion in the budget process. Not all data needed are expected to
   Data Reporting. ONDCP will continue to be federal responsibilities.
   ONDCP has a coordinate the process of developing new number of
   initiatives in progress to address databases (or make consistent
   existing state the data gaps that arise, and it is possible and local
   databases) as needed. The PME that data-related factors will prompt
   revision system lists the data points and the federal of some targets.
   agencies responsible for reporting performance to ONDCP. A minimum of
   Information Management System. The one federal agency, two when there
   is a Information Management System (IMS) is a shared responsibility, is
   responsible for vehicle for data collection, processing, and reporting
   on each measure. Additionally, Strategy monitoring and was implemented
   "Supporting Federal Agencies" are listed in FY 1998. Since then it has
   been refined a along with the formal "Reporting Agency" number of times
   to further enhance its because they assist with data collection and
   utility. Data provided by the working assessment, or have programs that
   contribute groups and other sources constitute the IMS' to achieving
   the given target. Although foundation. The IMS reflects the underlying
   federal agencies are designated as "reporting causal models linking
   Strategy goals and and supporting agencies" for each goal and
   objectives with the corresponding targets measure, this does not
   represent a complete and provides an automated set of tools list of
   actors that will help the nation achieve enabling ONDCP to analyze
   progress the specified goals. States, localities, and toward achieving
   targets. Section IV. D.  BUDGET FORMULATION AND OVERSIGHT ONDCP
   certifies each drug control agency's ensures that each agency's budget
   budget and prepares a consolidated federal submission adequately meets
   Strategy goals drug control budget for implementing the and objectives.
   It is based on the National Drug Control Strategy (Strategy).
   comprehensive, budget guidance ONDCP ONDCP's budget certification
   process issues early in the budget development 10 process. The federal
   drug control budget Spending by Strategy Goal. This must be linked to
   the Strategy's goals and framework also provides a mechanism for
   objectives. Each federal drug control analyzing actual expenditures.
   Within any agency is responsible for developing Strategy goal area,
   resources are clearly not estimates of their drug control resources.
   uniformly spread among the various ONDCP publishes the final drug
   control objectives. Also, some resources cannot be budget in its annual
   publication, The allocated against any of the existing National Drug
   Control Strategy, Budget objectives. This interesting, but not Summary.
   unexpected, result indicates that some drug control spending does not
   neatly fit into the Budget Linkage to the PME System. current
   objectives. ONDCP works ONDCP uses the PME system to help continuously
   to refine estimates of drug develop the budget guidance it issues to
   the control spending. ONDCP's Circular, federal drug control agencies.
   Pursuant to Annual Accounting of Drug Control Funds, statute, this
   guidance is updated and issued provides a mechanism for agency Chief to
   all drug control agencies by July 1 of each Financial Officers and
   Inspectors General to year. The publication of a consolidated review
   annually agency drug budget National Drug Control Budget, issued
   accounting and report these results to concurrently with the FY 2002
   Strategy, is ONDCP and the Congress. the key output for this function
   ONDCP Links the Federal Drug Control Budget to the Strategy & PME
   System 5 G 5 Goal oalss 31 O 31 Obbjjeect ctiivves es Drug Control
   Funding by Goal Illustrative--FY 2000 Figures Shown Goal 1 Goal 5 11.9%
   17.9% Goal 1 Goal 2 Goal 4 Goal 3 13.9% Goal 2 Goal 4 40.4% Goal 3 Goal
   5 15.9% 11 Section IV. E. OFFICE OF NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL POLICY
   RESOURCES ONDCP's FY 2002 budget provides the federal agencies and
   state and local primary Executive Branch support for drug governments
   that together implement the policy development and program oversight.
   Strategy. ONDCP advises the President on national and international
   drug control policies and For FY 2002 ONDCP has requested budget
   strategies, and works to ensure the effective authority of $519.1
   million. This budget coordination of drug programs within the will
   encompass four major program areas: federal agencies and departments.
   In 1) Counterdrug Technology Assessment addition, ONDCP manages four
   programs Center (CTAC), 2) Drug Free Communities that directly
   contribute to the Support Program, 3) Media Campaign, and
   accomplishment of Strategy. These four 4) the High Intensity Drug
   Trafficking Area programs account for over ninety percent of (HIDTA)
   Program. The budget breakdown ONDCP's total budget. About five percent
   is summarized in the chart below, and in of ONDCP's budget is used for
   policy numerical detail on the next page. guidance and oversight of the
   numerous Office of National Drug Control Policy FY 2002 Budget Request
   CTAC Operations Other* Media Campaign HIDTA Drug-Free Communities
   Support * Note: Includes the Counterdrug Intelligence Executive
   Secretariat (CDX); Drug Court Institute; Parents Drug Corps;
   anti-doping funds; policy research and model state drug laws; and HIDTA
   program auditing services. 12 Office of National Drug Control Policy FY
   2002 Budget Request Salaries & Expenses - Operations $ 22.8 M - Other
   (policy research, model state drug laws) 2.4 Total: $ 25.1 M Counter
   Drug Technology Assessment Center (CTAC) - Research and Development $
   18.0 M - Technology Transfer 22.0 $ 40.0 M Special Forfeiture Fund -
   National Youth Anti-Drug Media Campaign $ 185.0 M - Drug-Free
   Communities Program 50.6 - Parents Drug Corps 5.0 - Counterdrug
   Intelligence Executive Secretariat (CDX) 3.0 - Anti-Doping 3.0 - Drug
   Court Institute 1.0 Total: $ 247.6 M High Intensity Drug Trafficking
   Areas (HIDTAs) $ 204.3 M - HIDTA Program Auditing Services 2.1 206.4
   TOTAL: $ 519.1 M NOTE: Totals might not add due to rounding 13 Section
   IV. F. 1. HIGH INTENSITY DRUG TRAFFICKING AREA (HIDTA) PROGRAM FY 2002
   PERFORMANCE PLAN MISSION High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area Program
   Enhance and coordinate America's drug-control efforts among federal,
   state and local agencies in order to eliminate or reduce drug
   trafficking (including the production, manufacture, transportation,
   distribution and chronic use of illegal drugs and money laundering) and
   its harmful consequences in critical regions of the United States. The
   HIDTA Program helps improve the decisions at all levels of program
   effectiveness and efficiency of drug control management. efforts in the
   most critical drug trafficking areas of the country by facilitating
   Budget. The HIDTA budget request cooperation among federal, state and
   local accounts for $206.35 million of ONDCP's law enforcement
   organizations; collocating $519.1 million budget request for FY 2002.
   and pooling limited resources; sharing information; developing focused,
   coordinated strategies; and implementing The HIDTA Program is a large
   proportion of ONDCP's $519.1M budget request joint initiatives across
   jurisdictional boundaries. HIDTA ($206.35M) HIDTA regional offices
   develop annual threat assessments, which form the basis for focused and
   coordinated strategies and initiatives that address the unique
   situations and drug trafficking threats within the designated regions.
   HIDTA-produced planning and budgeting documents are reviewed and
   updated annually to enhance Linkage to the National Drug Control law
   enforcement strengths and target the Strategy. The HIDTA Program is
   assigned vulnerabilities of major drug trafficking a specific role in
   the National Drug Control organizations. To continually improve these
   Strategy: to facilitate and enhance federal, efforts, the HIDTA
   regional offices assess state and local law enforcement efforts. Its
   the impact of initiatives on drug trafficking role in attacking
   regional drug trafficking and forward new initiatives and funding
   concentrations is a crucial component of requests to ONDCP for
   approval. The national efforts to reduce domestic drug HIDTA threat
   assessments, strategies, trafficking, as well as drug-related crime and
   initiatives, budgets, and reports that are violence. HIDTA Program
   funds help law produced annually by each regional office enforcement
   organizations invest in document a process for making improved
   infrastructure and joint initiatives to planning, operations and
   budgeting confront drug trafficking. 14 The HIDTA Program is
   outcome-focused improved in America's most critical drug and promotes
   flexibility in planning, trafficking areas. operations and budgeting so
   that law enforcement may respond to unique, The HIDTA Program is
   addressed regional problems and constantly changing specifically in
   Objective Two of Goal Two drug trafficking threats. HIDTA initiatives
   of the Strategy, but contributes to deal with these issues; encompass
   federal, accomplishing ONDCP's mission and all state and local efforts
   that traverse five goals (Appendix A) of the Strategy. jurisdictional
   boundaries; and comply with a HIDTA Program initiatives address the
   variety of federal, state and local laws. Such dynamic and
   multi-dimensional aspects of diversity greatly complicates program drug
   trafficking, including the production, management, but these problems
   are being manufacture, transportation, distribution and addressed and
   drug control efforts are being chronic use of illegal drugs and money
   laundering. High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Linkage to the
   National Drug Control Strategy GOAL Two: Increase the safety of
   America's citizens by substantially reducing drug-related crime and
   violence. Objective Two: Improve the ability of High Intensity Drug
   Trafficking Areas to counter drug trafficking. Program Structure and
   Resources. The HIDTA threat assessments, strategies, HIDTA Program is
   comprised of the initiatives, and proposed budgets; disbursing ONDCP
   HIDTA Program Office, the funds; and designating HIDTAs. HIDTA
   Coordinating Committee, and twenty-eight regional HIDTA offices, each
   Program evaluation begins with the review with its own Executive Board,
   Director and of annual reports and funding proposals Intelligence
   Centers. (The twenty-eight submitted by the HIDTA regional offices.
   regional HIDTA offices include the ONDCP also evaluates each HIDTA's
   Southwest Border HIDTA and its five annual drug threat assessment, the
   strategy partnerships.) (See Appendix B for List of for addressing
   identified threats, the Designated HIDTAs.) initiatives for
   implementing the strategy, and the impact of HIDTA initiatives on
   identified drug trafficking problems. In The ONDCP HIDTA Program
   Office. addition, ONDCP reviews each HIDTA's ONDCP's management
   responsibilities infrastructure requirements and funding primarily
   include providing program policy requests. Each year, ONDCP evaluates
   guidance and evaluating program every HIDTA to ensure it complies with
   performance. Activities include assessing statutory requirements, as
   well as ONDCP's 15 program and budgeting guidance. In its United States
   as HIDTAs, provided they oversight role, ONDCP also conducts on- meet
   certain statutory criteria (highlighted site program and financial
   reviews of below). Such designation qualifies federal, selected HIDTAs.
   state and local law enforcement organizations within the region to
   receive Designating HIDTAs. The ONDCP federal assistance to combat drug
   trafficking Director, upon consultation with the activities. To date,
   approximately ten Attorney General, Secretary of the Treasury, percent
   of U.S. counties are designated as heads of National Drug Control
   Program HIDTAs. A map showing the locations of agencies, and Governors
   of applicable the HIDTAs and the dates they were states, designates
   specified regions of the designated is at Appendix B. Statutory
   Criteria for HIDTA Designations In designating a region a HIDTA, ONDCP
   considers the extent that: · The area is the center of drug production,
   manufacturing, importation, or distribution. · State and local law
   enforcement agencies have committed resources to respond to the drug
   trafficking problem, thereby indicating a determination to respond
   aggressively. · Drug activities in the area are having a harmful impact
   on other areas of the country. · A significant increase in federal
   resources is necessary to respond adequately to drug- related
   activities in the area. The HIDTA Coordinating Committee. The regional
   threat assessments and integrate the HIDTA Coordinating Committee,
   chaired efforts of multiple law enforcement agencies by ONDCP's Deputy
   Director for State and with various responsibilities, capabilities,
   Local Affairs, is an interagency body and jurisdictional authorities
   (i.e., federal, comprised of members of federal drug state, and local)
   into a coordinated, united control departments and agencies. This
   effort against identified drug trafficking committee reviews HIDTA
   program problems. management initiatives and budgets and provides
   recommendations to ONDCP. The Executive Boards. Each HIDTA is governed
   by an Executive Board, which is The HIDTA Regional Offices. Each HIDTA
   led by a Chair and a Vice Chair (one state or regional office is
   comprised of an Executive local person and one federal person). There
   Board, a Director, a few support positions, are approximately sixteen
   members of the and members of federal, state and local drug law
   enforcement and justice communities on control organizations. A primary
   function each Board, including eight federal members of HIDTA regional
   offices is to develop and eight state or local members. Executive 16
   Boards determine the character of HIDTA enforcement organizations to
   enhance strategies and, with assistance from their officer safety and
   avoid duplication of HIDTA Directors, coordinate activities and
   efforts.) Finally, the centers provide secure employ HIDTA resources.
   They also have facilities and information systems to federal,
   responsibilities to propose annual budgets; state, and local law
   enforcement agencies develop joint strategies with initiatives that for
   storing and sharing information. specifically address the annual drug
   trafficking threat assessments; and monitor Fiscal Year 2002
   Performance Goals and the development, implementation, support Targets.
   HIDTA funds are used to improve and evaluation of HIDTA initiatives.
   the effectiveness and efficiency of law enforcement's drug control
   efforts in critical HIDTA Intelligence Centers. An areas of the United
   States. The intended interagency Intelligence Center (also called
   result is a reduction in drug-related crimes Investigative Support
   Center and and other harmful consequences of illegal Information
   Center) is mandated in each drug use. ONDCP's HIDTA FY 2002 HIDTA.
   These centers analyze information Performance Plan emphasizes three
   from many federal, state and local sources to performance goals:
   provide intelligence support to law enforcement agencies regarding drug
   1) Improve the effectiveness and efficiency trafficking organizations
   and their of law enforcement within HIDTAs vulnerabilities. The centers
   supply strategic intelligence, as well as case support to law 2) Reduce
   the efficiency and impact of drug enforcement agencies, and they
   develop the trafficking organizations in America annual threat
   assessments that are used in determining the HIDTAs' enforcement 3)
   Increase the safety of American strategies. Intelligence Centers also
   provide neighborhoods. other functions and services, such as event
   deconfliction, to regional law enforcement The FY 2002 HIDTA
   performance goals, organizations. (Deconfliction services are targets
   and approaches for achieving them intelligence-sharing systems that
   enable law are summarized below. 17 FY 2002 Goal One: Improve the
   efficiency and effectiveness of law enforcement within HIDTAs.
   Approach: The HIDTA Program will identify and prioritize the services
   and resources required to increase the impact of law enforcement on
   drug trafficking. Funding priorities will also reflect the General
   Counterdrug Intelligence Plan (GCIP) to improve intelligence and inter-
   and intra- communications systems, as well as training needs and
   focused initiatives on drug threats identified by the HIDTAs' annual
   threat assessments. All HIDTAs will accomplish these program priorities
   within specified periods of time as detailed in ONDCP's funding
   priorities and milestones guide. The purpose of these procedures is to
   improve and enhance: · Intelligence, information sharing and electronic
   connectivity · Teamwork and training · Strategic planning and execution
   of drug control initiatives · Accountability of resources and
   operations FY 2002 Performance Target: All HIDTAs will employ the HIDTA
   funding priorities in FY 2002 according to the funding priorities and
   milestones guide developed in FY 2001. FY 2002 Goal Two: Reduce the
   efficiency and impact of drug trafficking organizations in America.
   Approach: The HIDTA Intelligence Centers will develop regional drug
   threat assessments annually to assess the level of drug production,
   transportation, distribution, chronic use, and money laundering. These
   annual threat assessments will help decision makers prioritize the type
   and seriousness of drug threats present in HIDTAs, provide feedback
   concerning the impact of HIDTA initiatives, and document progress
   toward reducing drug threats. These annual threat assessments will also
   assist the HIDTA regional offices as they develop customized
   strategies, drug control initiatives and annual budgets. The regional
   threat assessments from all HIDTAs will provide critical pieces to the
   larger picture of domestic drug trafficking and use. HIDTA Intelligence
   Centers will provide the data to support this performance target. Each
   Intelligence Center's assessment of drug trafficking will include a
   number to indicate the level of drug threat (zero indicates no drug
   threat and ten indicates the highest level of threat) for each of the
   following areas: drug production, transportation, distribution, chronic
   use, and money laundering. ONDCP will establish objective criteria for
   these five aspects of drug trafficking for HIDTA Program managers. Each
   HIDTA will establish a baseline during FY 2002 and, each year
   thereafter, HIDTAs will reduce these threats by five-percent from the
   base year data. FY 2002 Performance Target: ONDCP will establish
   objective criteria in the areas of production, transportation,
   distribution, chronic use and money laundering for HIDTA threat
   assessments by September 30, 2001. All HIDTAs will establish base year
   performance data by the end of FY 2002. Beginning in FY 2003, each
   HIDTA will identify, target and reduce drug trafficking in one or more
   of the five areas by five percent each year, as identified by threat
   assessments prepared by the Intelligence Center and targeted by the
   HIDTA Executive Board. 18 2002 Goal Three: Increase the safety of
   American neighborhoods. Approach: Drug traffickers and drug-using
   offenders are responsible for a disproportionate amount of violent
   crime and property offenses. During periods of heavy drug use, criminal
   activity rises dramatically in both frequency and severity. The
   Arrestee and Drug Abuse Monitoring (ADAM) reports support this
   statement and have indicated a dramatic rise from 1997 to 1999 in the
   number of arrestees that tested positive for at least one illicit drug.
   Through the execution of drug control initiatives, HIDTAs reduce the
   efficiency and impact of drug trafficking. These reductions in
   trafficking, in turn, reduce drug-related crimes, violence, property
   crimes, and harmful consequences of drug use, such as emergency room
   visits and deaths, throughout the nation and within the geographical
   areas of some of the HIDTAs. For example, some initiatives, such as
   those designed to reduce drug transportation across the Southwest
   Border, are intended to reduce the flow of illegal drugs to other
   American neighborhoods, while other initiatives reduce drug
   distribution and use to impact trafficking within the geographical area
   of the HIDTA. Research and national data sources are needed to
   determine the national impact of the HIDTA Program and other law
   enforcement efforts on drug trafficking in America. A 2001 study
   conducted by the National Research Council concluded there is a deficit
   in data evaluating the effectiveness of drug law enforcement. Subject
   to the availability of funds, ONDCP will sponsor an initiative to
   identify performance indicators and data sets to address this important
   goal. 2002 Performance Target: By October 1, 2001, ONDCP will complete
   a plan that will establish performance indicators and data sources to
   support Goal Three of the HIDTA Program. By the end of FY 2002, this
   plan will be executed and a baseline of data will be established to
   support Goal Three of the HIDTA Program. FY 2002 Performance Plan
   Initiatives. milestones for funding priorities by the end ONDCP began a
   number of management of FY 2001. ONDCP will consult with initiatives to
   improve the overall federal, state and local drug control agencies
   effectiveness and efficiency of the HIDTA regarding the focus of the
   HIDTA Program Program and to implement the FY 2002 and the development
   of program priorities. Performance Plan. The Program itself is
   Additionally, ONDCP will work with built on partnerships with federal,
   state and Congress on funding priorities. These local organizations
   that help save resources priorities will be finalized after and improve
   effectiveness. ONDCP is in the consideration of ONDCP's budget plan to
   process of implementing additional determine the percentage of the
   priorities initiatives supporting all three FY 2002 that can be
   implemented during FY 2002. goals to improve the performance and The
   funding guidance will include annual management of the HIDTA Program.
   milestones on September 30th each year. To support the HIDTA Program's
   first ONDCP will continue to work with the performance goal, ONDCP will
   complete following HIDTA performance working the development of funding
   guidance with groups to provide recommendations to 19 decision makers
   on program management 3) Assessing HIDTA initiatives and priorities:
   technology, intelligence, information systems, training, and 4)
   Evaluating performance data and annual performance management. The
   actual reports funding priorities will be directly associated with
   resources and services to improve and 5) Modifying annual HIDTA reports
   and enhance the following: intelligence, ONDCP's GPRA reports to
   include what information sharing and electronic was successful during
   the preceding year. connectivity, teamwork and training, strategic
   planning and execution of drug The second performance target in the FY
   control initiatives, and accountability of 2002 Performance Plan will
   take a new resources and operations. approach to assessing drug
   trafficking and the impact of the HIDTA Program using The impact of
   these funding decisions will information provided by HIDTA be measured
   by reductions in regional drug Intelligence Centers. HIDTA Intelligence
   trafficking threats in terms of drug Centers will report the levels and
   types of production, transportation, distribution, use, drug
   trafficking in annual threat and money laundering. HIDTA Program
   assessments. The assessments will provide impact will be measured in
   terms of the baseline against which HIDTAs will increased safety in
   American identify, target, and reduce critical levels of neighborhoods.
   In addition to the working drug trafficking in one or more areas
   groups' recommendations, funding priorities (production,
   transportation, distribution, will be based on the General Counterdrug
   chronic use, and money laundering) by five Intelligence Plan to improve
   intelligence and percent each year. inter-and intra-communications
   systems, as well as training needs and focused drug The HIDTA
   Intelligence Centers are in the threat initiatives identified by the
   HIDTAs' best position to develop regional drug threat annual threat
   assessments. assessments on the level of drug production,
   transportation, distribution, use, and money The HIDTA program managers
   at ONDCP laundering. The HIDTAs' annual threat and regional offices
   will work toward assessments provide feedback to decision improving the
   HIDTA planning and makers concerning the levels of drug budgeting
   reports and processes. By trafficking and the impact of HIDTA improving
   the information products, the initiatives. Because Intelligence Centers
   managers will get a better picture of regional monitor the levels of
   drug threats, they can drug trafficking problems and how the help
   prioritize the type and seriousness of HIDTA Program can impact them.
   ONDCP drug threats present in the region. This is currently focusing on
   improving the information will assist decision makers as following:
   they develop strategies, customized initiatives, and annual budgets.
   The 1) Evaluating annual HIDTA threat combined regional threat
   assessments from assessments all the HIDTAs provide critical pieces of
   a national drug trafficking picture. 2) Improving HIDTA planning
   documents: strategies, initiatives, and budgets ONDCP is also working
   with the National Drug Intelligence Center to develop better 20
   regional and strategic threat assessments to regulations and policies.
   Reviews of improve management's ability to identify physical security,
   compliance with Title 28 program priorities and focus resources. This
   Code of Federal Regulation intelligence will also help ONDCP ensure
   that the most dissemination guidelines, implementation of critical
   areas in the country have been the GCIP, and other conformity issues
   are identified and designated and that changes in being conducted. drug
   threats are monitored. Additionally, in FY 2001, a nationally To
   support the HIDTA Program's 2002 recognized CPA firm will begin to
   conduct a Goal Three, ONDCP will work toward financial audit of
   selected elements in the identifying and developing performance HIDTA
   Program. Engaging a national CPA indicators and additional drug data
   sources firm to become a component of the HIDTA for more complete
   coverage of HIDTA Program Review Process provides ONDCP counties not
   covered by national data with an independent assessment of the fiscal
   sources such as DAWN, ADAM and UCR aspects of the HIDTA Program. These
   reports. ONDCP will also seek assistance examinations will provide
   data, enabling from an expert contractor to develop ONDCP to enhance
   fiscal accountability and baseline data for FY 2002 that recognizes
   greatly strengthen accountability for the data gaps and the performance
   goals of resources used throughout the HIDTA the HIDTA Program.
   Program. HIDTA Conferences and Meetings. ONDCP ONDCP will continue to
   manage three sponsors annual HIDTA conferences and components of the
   HIDTA Program review quarterly HIDTA Director meetings. The process.
   The components are: next national conference will take place December
   5-7, 2001, in Washington, D.C. 1) The review of each HIDTA's annual
   These conferences assist ONDCP's report, drug threat assessment,
   strategy, continuing coordination efforts with federal, initiatives,
   and associated budget state and local representatives from the HIDTAs
   and help program managers 2) Internal reviews conducted by the develop
   improvements in HIDTA initiatives. HIDTA regional offices, with results
   ONDCP will also continue to sponsor forwarded to the HIDTA Program
   Office coordination meetings with the regional HIDTA Directors. 3)
   On-site reviews conducted at the HIDTAs. Program Evaluations. The
   recently implemented HIDTA Program Review The combination of these
   components will Process provides an institutionalized provide a
   comprehensive and continuous mechanism for reviewing all HIDTAs on a
   HIDTA review process. This process will regular basis. This review
   process is contribute to the overall success of the designed to help
   assess the program's HIDTA Program by facilitating effective support of
   the National Drug Control management of the individual HIDTAs and
   Strategy, the effectiveness of the individual enhancing their
   contributions to the National HIDTAs; efficiency and accountability in
   Drug Control Strategy. The HIDTA the use of HIDTA resources; and
   Program review process will utilize an compliance with applicable laws,
   ONDCP-led team comprised of personnel 21 from the HIDTAs and
   Departments of 2000. The HPMWG's analysis of the Justice and Treasury.
   Participation by these HIDTA Program's performance system agencies will
   enhance the credibility of the revealed that a wide array of indicators
   is review process and supplement the review required to fully evaluate
   the impact of team. HIDTAs and the HIDTA Program. Furthermore, though
   the existing Fiscal Year 2001 Performance Goals and performance goals
   and targets showed Targets. There were three key performance measured
   progress toward HIDTA goals, the targets in the FY 2001 Performance
   Plan. HPMWG identified problems in using the The first performance
   target measured the performance data for critical program level of
   maturation of HIDTA regional planning and budgeting decisions. The
   offices as they achieved the 56 HIDTA working group provided
   recommendations Developmental Standards (Appendix B). to refine and
   focus the HIDTA mission These standards provided a guide for statement,
   goals and performance measures. decision-makers at regional HIDTA
   offices The HPMWG identified several desired to improve their
   capabilities in intelligence outcomes for the HIDTA Program for which
   and information sharing, teamwork and there were few or no performance
   indicators training, planning and execution and or targets, for example
   money laundering. accountability. The second performance Additional
   work was accomplished toward target in FY 2001 Performance Plan the
   development of a viable performance measured a reduction in the number
   of drug management system at the 1999 HIDTA trafficking organizations
   as an indicator of Conference. reduced drug trafficking. The third
   performance target measured the impact of The following paragraphs
   provide an HIDTA initiatives on drug-related crimes, as analysis of the
   FY 1999-FY 2001 HIDTA indicated in the Federal Bureau of performance
   goals and targets. The first Investigation's Uniformed Crime Reports
   performance target found in the FY 2000 (UCR). The results obtained
   toward and FY 2001 HIDTA performance plans accomplishing the FY 2001
   HIDTA involved the use of HIDTA Developmental Program goals and
   performance targets are Standards. In the past, these standards
   explained in the FY 2000 HIDTA provided a useful guide for regional
   offices, Performance Report. and in particular newly designated HIDTAs,
   to develop and improve services and Review and Analysis of FY 2000-FY
   2001 processes. In fact, these standards were HIDTA Performance Goals
   and Targets. between 60 and 100 percent completed by The HIDTA Program
   Office established the 17 of the mature HIDTAs (i.e., those HIDTA
   Performance Management Working designated prior to January 1, 1998) by
   Group (HPMWG) during calendar year September 2000, as stated in the FY
   2001 1999. This working group, primarily Performance Report. An
   analysis of the comprised of HIDTA Directors, was performance target
   revealed that there was chartered to review existing performance no
   obvious correlation between the HIDTA measures and develop improved
   measures Developmental Standards and funding that demonstrate both the
   impact of the requirements, nor did a direct correlation overall HIDTA
   Program and each individual between the HIDTA Developmental HIDTA. The
   working group provided Standards and vital public needs exist.
   preliminary findings to ONDCP in 1999 and These issues created a need
   for the HITDA 22 performance system to evolve and a new a reliable
   indicator of the impact of drug performance target. trafficking in a
   HIDTA, nor of the HIDTA Program's impact on drug trafficking. The The
   following four recommendations were measure could be unreliable in
   reflecting developed to address the needs for the changes when one or
   more drug-trafficking HIDTA performance system: organizations within
   any HIDTA was disrupted because a disrupted large drug 1) Preserve the
   important processes listed as trafficking organization may splinter
   into developmental standards by moving them two or more smaller
   organizations. into ONDCP's HIDTA Program Policy Furthermore, a
   reduction in the number of document. smaller organizations may not
   significantly impact drug trafficking in an area when a 2) Prescribe
   HIDTA Program funding large organization is also present. priorities
   that are based on performance, drug threats and the needs of the
   HIDTAs. In consideration of these problems and after using the "number"
   of drug trafficking 3) Ensure funding and performance are organizations
   disrupted or dismantled as the linked to HIDTA initiatives as well as
   vital basis of a performance indicator, the FY public needs. 2002 HIDTA
   Goal Two and performance target were developed to assess the impact 4)
   Ensure the accountability of decision- of drug trafficking in HIDTAs.
   Refer to the makers. HIDTA Program's FY 2002 Goal Two and performance
   target for additional As a result of these recommendations, the
   information concerning these issues. FY 2001 HIDTA Goal One and
   performance target were modified. The HIDTA The third performance
   target in FY 2000 Developmental Standards will be replaced and FY 2001
   performance plans measured a with a guide for funding HIDTA priorities,
   reduction in crimes (homicides, robberies, which will be completed by
   the end of FY assaults, and crimes against property) as 2001. The
   transition to new funding measured by the FBI's UCR. These types of
   priorities will take place in FY 2002. This crimes and UCR data sets
   are not indicative guide should significantly help decision of "drug"
   crimes (except for drug law makers develop budgets to address regional
   violations)-the type of crimes of which the threats and HIDTA
   requirements. (Refer to HIDTA Program is primarily concerned the FY
   2002 HIDTA performance Goal One with reducing-moreover, crimes in money
   and the management initiative that supports laundering are not
   addressed. Furthermore, Goal One for additional information on this a
   number of HIDTAs and HIDTA counties new performance target.) are not
   supported by UCR data. Finally, UCR data is not readily available for
   The second performance target in the FY counties, whereas ONDCP
   designates 2000 and FY 2001 performance plans used HIDTAs by counties.
   the "number" of drug trafficking organizations dismantled or disrupted
   as an Performance Verification and Validation. indicator of reduced
   drug trafficking. Each HIDTA implements an internal Though this
   performance target provided an management system to monitor and report
   indication of accomplished work, it was not performance. Additionally,
   ONDCP 23 continually monitors HIDTA performance year and HIDTA funds
   addressing the through management review processes. treatment or
   prevention of drug use to be not These management review processes are
   less than the funds expended during FY also being reviewed and
   improved. 1999 for each HIDTA without the prior ONDCP is reviewing
   HIDTA management approval of the Committees on systems and validating
   the results reported Appropriations. However, in 1999, by HIDTAs. These
   evaluations include congressional conferees noted that ONDCP external
   financial auditing services and must have flexibility to allocate
   resources to periodic on-site reviews to verify each those HIDTAs that
   would most likely have regional HIDTA's compliance with the greatest
   impact on U.S. drug problems. ONDCP's program policy, fiscal The
   conferees also reported that further accountability and progress toward
   HIDTA funding should be based on clear, achieving performance targets.
   In some concrete measures of performance. cases, these reviews may
   prompt in-depth Therefore, Congress directed ONDCP to program
   evaluations that distinguish useful base the FY 2000 HIDTA budget on
   programs from inefficient and ineffective ONDCP's own performance
   measures of ones. These reviews may also assist effectiveness and the
   priorities dictated by ONDCP's evaluation of HIDTA changing threats.
   designations and help in planning and implementing new efforts to
   improve Crosscutting Programs. The success of program management. In
   addition, these HIDTA initiatives is based on the combined efforts help
   to verify performance resources and efforts of multiple achievement.
   independent law enforcement organizations and the contributions of
   numerous External Factors. A number of external independent support
   organizations-the factors constrain the ability of ONDCP and number of
   organizations and the nature of the regional HIDTA offices to manage
   the their involvement are significant. However, HIDTA program. The more
   significant ONDCP, as well as the regional HIDTA external factors and
   their effects are offices themselves, have limited direct discussed
   here. control over these organizations. The Federal Bureau of
   Investigation; Drug Decentralized Program Management. Enforcement
   Administration; Bureau of ONDCP has no line of authority over the
   Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms; National regional HIDTA offices.
   Regional Guard Bureau; and other federal, state and Executive Boards
   maintain a high degree of local agencies provide support to ONDCP
   autonomy in managing the regional offices. and the regional HIDTAs. A
   disruption in ONDCP influences decision makers at the support from any
   one (or more) of these, and regional offices through policy and program
   other organizations that contribute to the guidance. HIDTA Program, can
   have an adverse ripple effect throughout an individual HIDTA or
   Legislative Influence. In 1998, Congress the overall HIDTA Program.
   HIDTA required ONDCP to fund each existing program managers expend
   significant time HIDTA at a level no less than the previous and
   resources to maintain cohesive teams. 24 Section IV. F. 1. HIGH
   INTENSITY DRUG TRAFFICKING AREAS (HIDTAs) FY 2000 PERFORMANCE REPORT
   ONDCP published the following ONDCP published nearly identical
   performance targets for the HIDTA Program performance targets for the
   HIDTA Program for FY 1999: in the FY 2001 Performance Plan: 1) Each
   HIDTA will comply with at 1) Each HIDTA will meet at least one least
   one additional step of the HIDTA additional step of the HIDTA
   Developmental Standards in at least one Developmental Standards in at
   least one category (See Appendix B for category. Developmental
   Standards). 2) Each HIDTA will disrupt, dismantle, 2) Each HIDTA will
   disrupt, dismantle, or render ineffective five percent of the or render
   ineffective five percent of the targeted drug trafficking organizations
   targeted drug trafficking organizations identified in its threat
   assessment. identified in its threat assessment. 3) HIDTAs will
   contribute to a five- 3) Each HIDTA will contribute to a percent
   reduction in specified crimes five-percent reduction in specified
   crimes (homicides, robberies, assaults, and crimes (homicides,
   robberies, assaults, and crimes against property as reported by the FBI
   against property as reported by the FBI Uniform Crime Reports) in
   targeted areas. Uniform Crime Reports). ONDCP published the following
   Target One  Progress Toward performance targets for the HIDTA Program
   Compliance With HIDTA Developmental in the FY 2000 Performance Plan:
   Standards 1) Each HIDTA will meet at least one This performance measure
   indicates additional step of the HIDTA progress toward the objective to
   increase the Developmental Standards in at least one efficiency and
   effectiveness of law category (See Appendix B for enforcement
   organizations within each Developmental Standards). HIDTA region.
   Progress toward meeting the HIDTA Developmental Standards refers 2)
   Each HIDTA will disrupt, dismantle, to the extent to which mechanisms
   and or render ineffective five percent of the infrastructure are in
   place for improving the targeted drug trafficking organizations
   efficiency and effectiveness of each HIDTA. identified in its threat
   assessment. HIDTAs are in varying stages of 3) Each HIDTA will
   contribute to a development. This is reflected in the five-percent
   reduction in specified crimes number of HIDTA Developmental (homicides,
   robberies, assaults, and crimes Standards each has implemented. The
   data against property as reported by the FBI concerning the
   developmental standards has Uniform Crime Reports). been useful for
   gauging the capabilities of law enforcement organizations within the
   designated areas. 25 The data on the next page shows the number
   Developmental Standards in at least one of HIDTA Developmental
   Standards each category. ONDCP will verify this HIDTA had implemented
   by January 1, information during future on-site 1998, 1999 and 2000 as
   well as September evaluations. 1, 2000. Based on information provided
   by the HIDTAs, each HIDTA achieved the FY The summary of HIDTA
   Developmental 2000 performance target and met at least Standards
   applied during calendar years one additional step of the HIDTA 1997,
   1998, 1999, and 2000 follows: 26 HIDTA Developmental Standards Applied
   during Calendar Years 1997, 1998, 1999 and 2000 Mature HIDTAs
   (Designated prior to 1 January 1998) Standards Standards Standards
   Standards Percent Applied by Applied by Applied by Applied by Applied
   by 1 Jan 1998 1 Jan 1999 1 Jan 2000 1 Sep 2000 1 Sep 2000 Atlanta 14 26
   42 42 75 Chicago 39 44 52 52 93 Gulf Coast 14 39 41 42 75 Houston 52 52
   53 53 95 Lake County 10 11 26 34 61 Los Angeles 43 45 47 47 84 Midwest
   8 16 25 32 57 NY/NJ 26 37 51 51 91 N California 0 22 28 39 70 Northwest
   5 24 39 43 77 PR/USVI 24 40 47 47 84 Phila/Camden 14 27 37 42 75 Rocky
   Mtn 0 23 40 45 80 SE Michigan 15 29 46 47 84 S Florida 46 48 56 56 100
   SW Border 42 45 45 45 80 Arizona 9 27 39 45 80 California 35 44 53 53
   95 New Mexico 34 37 40 40 71 S Texas 37 46 50 51 91 W Texas 16 46 53 53
   95 Wash/Balt 38 46 55 55 98 New HIDTAs (Designated after 1 January
   1998) Appalachia NA 30 29 33 59 Cntrl Florida NA 12 19 28 50 Milwaukee
   NA 7 28 38 68 N Texas NA 11 34 40 71 Cntrl Val Ca NA NA 8 37 66 Hawaii
   NA NA 3 9 16 New England NA NA 14 17 30 Ohio NA NA 8 13 23 Oregon NA NA
   5 21 38 Source: Individual HIDTAs There are a total of 56 HIDTA
   Developmental Standards. 27 Target Two  Progress Toward Reducing of the
   HIDTA Program's impact on drug the Number of Drug Trafficking
   trafficking. The measure fails to reflect Organizations changes in the
   impact of drug trafficking when one or more drug trafficking Each HIDTA
   regional office was asked to organizations within any HIDTA is provide
   Drug Trafficking Organization disrupted because a disrupted large drug
   (DTO) information for calendar years 1998 trafficking organization may
   splinter into and 1999. Included in the request was the two or more
   smaller organizations. number of DTOs identified and targeted; the
   Furthermore, a reduction in the number of number of DTOs dismantled;
   and the smaller organizations may not significantly number of DTOs
   disrupted. The impact drug trafficking in an area when a information
   following reflects the responses large organization is also present.
   from each regional HIDTA office. The percentages reflect the portion of
   DTOs ONDCP has worked with the HIDTA disrupted or dismantled in
   relation to the Performance Management Working Group number that was
   targeted. Some HIDTAs to improve the ability of decisionmakers to
   prioritize and target identified DTOs while monitor the impact of law
   enforcement's other HIDTAs target all DTOs identified. impact on drug
   trafficking. The current performance measure has not been a useful The
   number of drug organizations measure to gauge this impact because the
   disrupted/dismantled indicates that the law size, capabilities, or
   effectiveness of drug enforcement agencies in HIDTAs are trafficking
   organizations is not measured in working to reduce drug trafficking and
   are a consistent manner. This performance having some effect on
   reducing the number measure was changed in the FY 2002 of drug
   trafficking organizations in Performance Plan. HIDTAs. However, ONDCP
   and HIDTA Directors are not satisfied with this measure Each HIDTA
   reported that it achieved the as a performance indicator for the HIDTA
   performance target with over a five-percent Program as it uses the
   "number" of drug reduction in the number of DTOs. The trafficking
   organizations dismantled or summary data for this target are presented
   disrupted as an indicator of reduced drug on the next page. (Most new
   HIDTA offices trafficking. Though this performance target that were
   designated on June 15, 1999 did provides an indication of accomplished
   not have this data available for calendar year work, it is not a
   reliable indicator of the 1999). impact of drug trafficking in a HIDTA,
   nor 28 Drug Trafficking Organizations Disrupted/Dismantled Calendar
   Years 1998 and 1999 DTOs DTOs DTOs DTOs Percent DTOs Targeted
   Identified Disrupted Dismantled Disrupted or Dismantled HIDTA 1998 1999
   1998 1999 1998 1999 1998 1999 1998 1999 Appalachia 60 72 60 72 50 55 11
   17 101% 100% Atlanta 21 34 27 74 17 18 5 6 105% 71% Cntrl Florida 25
   165 25 165 1 45 4 24 20% 42% Cntrl Val Ca ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** ** **
   Chicago 145 70 145 71 63 46 20 19 57% 93% Gulf Coast 65 98 293 293 19
   54 28 35 72% 91% Hawaii ** ** ** 93 ** ** ** ** ** ** Houston 147 42
   147 164 27 13 18 3 31% 38% Lake County 150 64 200 120 69 45 47 24 77%
   108% Los Angeles 146 221 168 294 14 49 76 126 62% 79% Midwest 250 223
   250 223 63 96 *** *** 25% 43% Milwaukee 10 20 77 79 5 12 1 5 60% 85%
   New England ** 29 ** 29 ** 4 ** 11 ** 52% NY/NJ 1237 1623 1237 1623 17
   17 153 551 14% 35% N California 552 361 552 361 191 100 *** *** 35% 28%
   N Texas * 85 * 86 * 10 * 46 * 66% Northwest 49 40 49 66 11 17 *** 12
   22% 73% Ohio ** 47 ** 96 ** 30 ** 26 ** 119% Oregon ** ** ** ** ** **
   ** ** ** ** PR/USVI 25 25 80 69 2 6 14 28 64% 136% Phil/Camden 25 96 25
   250 4 34 15 62 76% 100% Rocky Mtn 72 89 610 203 60 44 7 12 93% 63% SE
   Michigan 20 10 20 20 30 30 10 10 200% 400% S Florida 493 410 493 410
   196 275 97 87 59% 88% SW Border Arizona 250 79 300 155 211 207 26 46
   95% 320% California 43 131 43 139 *** *** 7 45 16% 34% New Mexico 85
   443 85 443 53 354 21 65 87% 95% S Texas
