http://ftp.ssa.gov/pressoffice/swearing-in-pr.htm

Wednesday November 14, 2001

                                                                   Tom Tobin, Acting Press Officer

For Immediate Release

                                                                     410-965-8904 FAX 410-966-9973

                           Social Security Online
                               SOCIAL SECURITY

                                News Release

                             JO ANNE B. BARNHART
                       TAKES CHARGE AT SOCIAL SECURITY

   Jo Anne B. Barnhart was sworn in today as the Commissioner of Social
   Security in a ceremony at the agencys national headquarters in
   Baltimore.

   The Commissioner expressed her pride at being chosen to serve as
   Commissioner of Social Security. "I truly believe that public service
   is a worthy and noble endeavor, and I thank every federal employee for
   deciding to make a career in government," said Commissioner Barnhart.
   "I am proud to head an agency blessed with so many dedicated and caring
   employees."

   Barnhart was sworn in by Larry G. Massanari, Regional Commissioner,
   Philadelphia. Massanari served as Acting Commissioner of Social
   Security since March. "She is a new leader, for a new century, where
   new challenges face the nations Social Security program," said
   Massanari. "The SSA is very fortunate that President Bush has chosen
   such a talented and accomplished leader to serve as Commissioner of
   Social Security."

   Barnhart is the 14^th Commissioner of Social Security. Her term will
   expire on January 19, 2007.

   Barnhart is a former SSA employee. She worked in the Office of Family
   Assistance from 1981 1986, first as Deputy Associate Commissioner and
   then as Associate Commissioner. She left to become minority staff
   director for the Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs.

   Most recently, she has served as a member of the Social Security
   Advisory Board, an independent body created to advise the Congress on
   Social Security issues and policies. Barnhart served as a member of the
   Board for more than four years.

   She will be responsible for administering the Social Security
   retirement, disability and survivors insurance programs that pay $408
   billion annually in benefits to more than 45 million beneficiaries, as
   well as the Supplemental Security Income program that provides cash
   assistance to almost 7 million people with limited income and assets.
   The agency has a national workforce of about 65,000 employees and 1,500
   field installations.

   Born in Memphis, Tennessee, Barnhart is graduate of the University of
   Delaware. She lives in Virgina with her husband and son.

                                    # # #

   NOTE TO CORRESPONDENTS: On Friday, November 9, Jo Anne B. Barnhart was
   sworn in as Commissioner of Social Security. A formal swearing in
   ceremony was held on November 14th at the Social Security
   Administration's national headquarters in Baltimore.

   Additional information is available about
     * Commissioner Jo Anne B. Barnhart
     * Social Security Commissioners

      Note: Copies of most SSA press releases, as well as other Social
                    Security information and statistics,
      are available at SSA’s Internet site, Social Security Online, at
                             http://www.ssa.gov.
          Also look there for information on subscribing to SSA’s
             free electronic newsletter, Social Security e-news.

   SSA Press Office 4-H-9 West High Rise 6401 Security Blvd. Baltimore, MD
                                    21235
                        410-965-8904 FAX 410-966-9973
