http://www.coralreef.noaa.gov/releases/fedregister121001.html

   Federal Register / Vol. 66, No. 237 / Monday, December 10, 2001 /
   Notices, Page: 63675

   DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
   National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
   [Docket No. 011113275-1275-01; I.D. 120401A]
   RIN 0648-ZB11

   Coral Reef Conservation Program Proposed Implementation Guidelines

   AGENCY: National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA),
   Commerce.

   ACTION: Request for comments on Proposed Implementation Guidelines for
   the Coral Reef Conservation Program.

   SUMMARY: The purpose of this document is to request comments on NOAA s
   proposed Implementation Guidelines (Guidelines)for the Coral Reef
   Conservation Program (Program)under the Coral Reef Conservation Act of
   2000 (Act). The Act authorizes the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary),
   through the NOAA Administrator (Administrator)and subject to the
   availability of funds, to provide matching grants of financial
   assistance for coral reef conservation projects under the Act (Coral
   Reef Conservation Program). As per the Act, NOAA has developed this set
   of proposed Implementation Guidelines for the Program for Fiscal Year
   (FY) 2002 through FY 2004. NOAA proposes to use several existing grant
   programs and mechanisms to implement the Program. Final Guidelines and
   specific Program information including available funding, dates, and
   detailed application requirements and proposal evaluation criteria will
   be published annually in a separate Federal Register solicitation. NOAA
   is in the process of developing a National Coral Reef Action Strategy
   (Strategy), as also required under the Act. The purpose of the Strategy
   is to provide an implementation plan to advance coral reef
   conservation, including a basis for funding allocations to be made
   under the Program. The Final Strategy will be published concurrently
   with the Final Program Guidelines and the FY 2002 Program Solicitation
   in the first quarter of calendar year 2002. The Department of Commerce
   Pre-Award Notification Requirements for Grants and Cooperative
   Agreements contained in the Federal Register notice of October 1, 2001
   (66 FR 49917), will be applicable to solicitations under this Program.
   This document is not a solicitation for FY 2002 project proposals.

   DATES: In order to be considered, comments on this document must be
   received by NOAA on or before January 14, 2002.

   ADDRESSES: Only written comments will be accepted. Please send your
   comments by mail or fax to: David Kennedy, NOAA Coral Program
   Coordinator, Office of Response and Restoration, N/ ORR, NOAA National
   Ocean Service, 1305 East- West Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910, Fax:
   301- 713- 4389.

   FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Bill Millhouser, Pacific Regional
   Manager, CPD/ OCRM, N/ ORM-3, NOAA National Ocean Service, 1305 East-
   West Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910; 301-713-3155 extension 189,
   Internet: bill.millhouser@noaa.gov; or Robin Bruckner, Community-based
   Restoration Coordinator, NOAA Restoration Center, F/ HC3, NOAA National
   Marine Fisheries Service, 1315 East-West Highway, Silver Spring, MD
   20910; 301-713-0174 extension 162, Internet: robin.bruckner@noaa.gov.

   SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:
   I. Background

   The Coral Reef Conservation Act of 2000 (16 U. S. C. 6401 et seq. )was
   enacted on December 14, 2000, for the following purposes:

   (1) To preserve, sustain and restore the condition of coral reef
   ecosystems;

   (2) To promote the wise management and sustainable use of coral reef
   ecosystems to benefit local communities and the Nation;

   (3) To develop sound scientific information on the condition of coral
   reef ecosystems and the threats to such ecosystems;

   (4) To assist in the preservation of coral reefs by supporting
   conservation programs, including projects that involve affected local
   communities and non- governmental organizations;

   (5) To provide financial resources for those programs and projects; and

   (6) To establish a formal mechanism for the collecting and allocating
   of monetary donations from the private sector to be used for coral reef
   conservation projects.

   Under section 6403 of the Act, the Secretary, through the NOAA
   Administrator (Administrator)and subject to the availability of funds,
   is authorized to provide matching grants of financial assistance for
   coral reef conservation projects. Section 6408(c)of the Act authorizes
   up to $ 8,000,000 in each of FY 2001 through FY 2004 for projects under
   the Program.

   As required under section 6403(j) of the Act, NOAA has developed this
   set of proposed Implementation Guidelines for the Program and through
   this document, is making them available for public review and comment.

   NOAA proposes to use several existing grant programs and mechanisms to
   implement the Program. Each fiscal year the Program will publish a
   Federal Register notice to describe the availability of funds and
   solicit project proposals. These annual solicitations, beginning in FY
   2002, will provide greater detail on the year's program priorities,
   application process, and proposal evaluation criteria. This document is
   not a solicitation for project proposals.

   II. Electronic Access

   The Coral Reef Conservation Act of 2000 can be found on the Internet
   at: http://thomas.loc.gov/ (Select Bill Text, then select 106th
   Congress, search on Bill Number HR 1653, select H. R. 1653. EH).
   Information on the U. S. Coral Reef Task Force, established June 11,
   1998 under Executive Order 13089, can be found at:
   http://coralreef.gov.

   III. Coral Reef Conservation Program

   The objective of the Program is to provide financial assistance for
   coral reef conservation projects consistent with the Act and National
   Coral Reef Action Strategy currently under development. NOAA's role in
   administering the Program is to strengthen and support the development
   and implementation of sound coral reef conservation projects, as well
   as ensure that the most beneficial projects are recommended for
   funding.

   IV. Applicant Eligibility Requirements

   As per section 6403(c)of the Act, eligible applicants include: any
   natural resource management authority of a state or other government
   authority with jurisdiction over coral reefs or whose activities
   directly or indirectly affect coral reefs or coral reef ecosystems, or
   educational or non- governmental institutions with demonstrated
   expertise in the conservation of coral reefs. Each subcategory of
   funding under this Program, as described in section VII of this
   document, encompasses a specific subgroup of eligible applicants, per
   this section.

   As a matter of policy, funding Federal agency activities under this
   Program will be a low priority unless such activities are an essential
   part of a cooperative project with other eligible governmental or non-
   governmental entities.

   NOAA agencies are not eligible for funding under this Program, as
   funding for such activities is provided for under section 6406 of the
   Act (National Program).

   V. Eligible Coral Reef Conservation Activities

   As described in section 6403(g)of the Act, projects considered for
   funding under this Program must be consistent with the National Coral
   Reef Action Strategy, scheduled to be published concurrently in the
   Federal Register with the FY 2002 solicitation for proposals, in the
   first quarter calendar year 2002. In addition, per the same section,
   the Administrator may not approve a project proposal unless it will
   enhance the conservation of coral reefs by addressing at least one of
   the following:

   (1) Implementing coral conservation programs which promote sustainable
   development and ensure effective, long-term conservation of coral
   reefs;

   (2) Addressing the conflicts arising from the use of environments near
   coral reefs or from the use of corals, species associated with coral
   reefs, and coral products;

   (3) Enhancing compliance with laws that prohibit or regulate the taking
   of coral products or species associated with coral reefs or regulate
   the use and management of coral reef ecosystems;

   (4) Developing sound scientific information on the condition of coral
   reef ecosystems or the threats to such ecosystems, including factors
   that cause coral disease;

   (5) Promoting and assisting to implement cooperative coral reef
   conservation projects that involve affected local communities, non-
   governmental organizations, or others in the private sector;

   (6) Increasing public knowledge and awareness of coral reef ecosystems
   and issues regarding their long term conservation;

   (7) Mapping the location and distribution of coral reefs;

   (8) Developing and implementing techniques to monitor and assess the
   status and condition of coral reefs;

   (9) Developing and implementing cost-effective methods to restore
   degraded coral reef ecosystems; or

   (10) Promoting ecologically sound navigation and anchorages near coral
   reefs.

   VI. Program Funding and Distribution

   Section 6408(c)of the Act authorizes up to $ 8,000,000 for use by the
   Secretary for each of FY 2001 through FY 2004 for the Coral Reef
   Conservation Program. The number of individual awards to be made each
   year will depend on the total amount of funds appropriated for coral
   reef activities within NOAA and the portion of those funds that are
   allocated to this Program.
   The total annual Program funding amount, suggested ranges for funding
   requests, and specific funding categories under which an applicant may
   choose to be considered will be published in the Program's annual
   Federal Register solicitation. Program funding awarded during any given
   fiscal year will be distributed, per section 6403(d)of the Act, in the
   following manner:

   (1) No less than 40 percent of funds available shall be awarded for
   coral reef conservation projects in the Pacific Ocean within the
   maritime areas and zones subject to the jurisdiction or control of the
   United States;

   (2) No less than 40 percent of funds available shall be awarded for
   coral reef conservation projects in the Atlantic Ocean, Gulf of Mexico
   and the Caribbean Sea within the maritime areas and zones subject to
   the jurisdiction or control of the United States; and

   (3) Remaining funds shall be awarded for projects that address emerging
   priorities or threats, including international priorities or threats,
   identified by the Administrator. When identifying emerging threats or
   priorities, the Administrator may consult with the Coral Reef Task
   Force.

   VII. Funding Categories and Mechanisms

   In order to ensure adequate funding for each of the purposes envisioned
   under the Act and provide for a balanced overall Program, existing NOAA
   programs will be used to award funds in the five funding categories
   described below. Each of the five categories references the general
   activity and applicant eligibility requirements associated with
   proposals submitted therein. Specific activity and applicant
   eligibility information and proposal evaluation criteria for each
   category, consistent with Guideline sections IV. Applicant Eligibility
   Requirements, VI. Funding and Funding Distribution, VIII. Matching
   Funds, IX. Application Process, and X. Project Review, will be
   published in each year's solicitation for proposals.

   (1) U. S. state and territorial government coral reef conservation
   activities , as described in section V(1- 10)of the Guidelines (section
   6403(g)of the Act) for the purposes of comprehensively managing coral
   reef ecosystems and associated fisheries within their jurisdictions.
   Eligibility to receive an award is limited to one agency in each state
   or territory with jurisdiction over coral reefs, as designated by the
   respective governors. These proposals will be reviewed and awarded by
   the National Ocean Service (NOS) Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource
   Management (OCRM) per guidelines published June 28, 2001 in the Federal
   Register (66 FR 34425), and pursuant to Section 310 of the Coastal Zone
   Management Act, under title, Coastal Zone Management Administration
   Awards, CFDA 11.419.

   (2) U. S. state and territorial government coral reef ecosystem
   monitoring and/ or assessment activities , as described in section
   V(8)of the Guidelines (section 6403(g)(8)of the Act). Such activities
   include the collection, analysis, and reporting of long- term coral
   reef monitoring data pursuant to scientifically valid methodologies and
   protocols. Eligible applicants are limited to one natural resource
   management authority in each U. S. state or territory with jurisdiction
   over coral reefs, as designated by the respective governors.
   Cooperative agreements between these agencies and the NOS National
   Centers for Coastal and Ocean Science (NCCOS) will be developed without
   competition under title, Financial Assistance for National Centers of
   Coastal Ocean Science, CFDA 11.426.

   (3) U. S. state, territorial, or other governmental and non-
   governmental entities, not eligible under other categories , for the
   purpose of implementing cooperative coral reef conservation,
   protection, restoration, research, or education projects, as described
   in section V(1- 10)of the Guidelines (section 6403(g) of the Act).
   These proposals will be reviewed and awarded by the National Marine
   Fisheries Service (NMFS) Office of Habitat Conservation under title,
   Habitat Conservation, CFDA 11.463.

   (4) Projects to develop, improve, or amend Fishery Management Plans to
   conserve, protect and restore coral reef habitats and associated
   fishery populations within the U. S. Exclusive Economic Zone; with the
   overall goal of improving the management of coral reefs and associated
   organisms through the avoidance of fishing impacts, ecosystem
   management or similar approaches and practices; as described in section
   V(3) of the Guidelines (section 6403(g)(3) of the Act). Eligible
   applicants include Regional Fishery Management Councils with
   jurisdiction over coral reefs, as established under the
   Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 USC 1801
   et seq.). These proposals will be reviewed and awarded by the NMFS
   Office of Habitat Conservation under title, Habitat Conservation, CFDA
   11.463.

   (5) International coral reef conservation projects for the purpose of
   implementing cooperative coral reef conservation activities as
   described in section V(1-10)of the Guidelines (section 6403(g)of the
   Act). Eligible applicants include all international governmental and
   non- governmental entities, including those in the Freely Associated
   States of the Pacific. These proposals will be reviewed and awarded by
   the NOS International Programs Office or the NMFS Office of Habitat
   Conservation, as appropriate, under title, Habitat Conservation, CFDA
   11.463.

   The annual solicitation will establish the range of funds available and
   specific evaluation criteria for each of these five categories. NOAA
   may add additional funding categories in the annual solicitation based
   on available funding and/ or coral reef conservation priorities under
   the Strategy. Applicants will be required to specify in their
   application the category(s)under which they are applying for funding.
   Selected applications may be funded and awards administered by NOAA,
   through either NMFS or NOS. Generally, one award will be made for each
   proposal accepted for funding.

   NOAA will determine the most appropriate funding mechanisms (grant,
   cooperative agreement, or interagency agreement) for selected
   individual projects, in consultation with the applicant, based on the
   degree of direct NOAA involvement with the project beyond the provision
   of financial assistance.

   Proposals from non-Federal applicants that are selected for funding
   will be funded either through a project grant or cooperative agreement.
   Selected Federal proposals will be funded through interagency
   agreements; however, under the Program, such agreements must include a
   local sponsor of the coral reef conservation project.

   VIII. Matching Funds

   As per section 6403(b)(1)of the Act, Federal funds for any coral
   conservation project funded under this Program may not exceed 50
   percent of the total costs of such project. The match may comprise a
   variety of public and private sources and can include in-kind
   contributions and other non- cash support. NOAA strongly encourages
   applicants to leverage as much investment as possible. Federal funds
   may not be considered as matching funds.

   For applicants who cannot meet the match requirement, as per section
   6403(b)(2) of the Act, the Secretary may waive all or part of the
   matching requirement if the Administrator
   determines that the project meets the following two requirements:

   (1) No reasonable means are available through which an applicant can
   meet the matching requirement, and

   (2) The probable benefit of such project outweighs the public interest
   in such matching requirement.

   Applicants must specify in their proposal the source and amount of the
   proposed match and may be asked to provide letters of commitment to
   confirm stated contributions. In the case of a waiver request, the
   applicant must provide a detailed justification explaining the need for
   the waiver, as described in section IX(6) of these Guidelines.

   Notwithstanding any other provision herein, and in accordance with 48
   U. S. C. 1469a(d), this Program shall waive any requirement for local
   matching funds for any project under $ 200,000 (including in kind
   contributions) to the governments of Insular Areas, defined as the
   jurisdictions of the U. S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and
   the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.

   IX. Application Process

   NOAA will publish in the Federal Register one annual notification
   soliciting project proposals, pursuant to these Guidelines.
   Applications submitted in response to solicitation notices will be
   screened for eligibility and conformance with the Program Guidelines.

   To submit a proposal, a complete NOAA standard grants application
   package must be filed in accordance with the guidelines in this
   document and instructions in the Department of Commerce Pre-Award
   Notification Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements
   contained the Federal Register notice of October 1, 2001 (66 FR 49917).

   A more detailed description of specific application requirements will
   be published in the annual solicitation; however, pursuant to section
   6403(e) of the Act and NOAA, each application must include the
   following elements:

   (1) A cover sheet with the name of the individual or entity responsible
   for conducting the project;

   (2) A description of the qualifications of the individual(s)who will
   conduct the project;

   (3) A succinct statement of the purposes of the project, including the
   specific geographic location where the project will be carried out;

   (4) An estimate of the funds and time required to complete the project
   including: a detailed breakdown by category of cost estimates as they
   relate to specific aspects of the project, with appropriate
   justification for both the Federal and non-Federal shares;

   (5) Evidence of support for the project by appropriate representatives
   of states or other government jurisdictions in which the project will
   be conducted, including obtaining or proceeding to obtain all
   applicable State and/ or Federal permits, consultations, and
   consistencies. U. S. state or territorial applicants must also provide
   evidence of coordination with all relevant state or territorial
   agencies, including a list of agencies consulted in developing the
   proposal;

   (6) Information regarding the amount of matching funding available to
   the applicant. In the case of a waiver request, the applicant must
   provide a detailed justification explaining the need for the waiver
   including attempts to obtain sources of matching funds, how the benefit
   of the project outweighs the public interest in providing match, and
   any other extenuating circumstances preventing the availability of
   match;

   (7) A description of how the project meets one or more the goals and
   objectives stated in section V of the Guidelines (section 6403(g) of
   the Act); and

   (8) Any other information the Administrator considers to be necessary
   for evaluating the eligibility of the project for funding under this
   title.

   In order to streamline the application and award process, and to allow
   NOAA to fully evaluate all coral reef conservation applications in the
   context of the overall Program, applicants must indicate under which
   category(s) (as described in section VII of these Guidelines) they are
   seeking funds, and are encouraged to submit only one comprehensive
   application per solicitation. The Program will give preference to
   projects where requested funding will be used to complete proposed
   coral reef conservation activities within a period of 12 months from
   the time the awards are distributed.

   X. Project Review

   As per section 6203(f) of the Act, NOAA will review eligible coral reef
   conservation proposals using an external governmental review and
   merit-based peer review. After such reviews, NOAA will implement an
   internal ranking and selection process. The overall project review and
   selection process will include the following five steps:

   (1) NOAA will request and consider written comments on the proposal
   from each Federal agency, state government, or other government
   jurisdiction, including the relevant regional Fishery Management
   Councils established under the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation
   and Management Act (16 U. S. C. 1801 et seq.), or any National Marine
   Sanctuary, with jurisdiction or management authority over coral reef
   ecosystems in the area where the project is to be conducted. Pursuant
   to this requirement of the Act, NOAA will apply the following standard
   in requesting comments:

   (A) Proposals for projects in state or territorial waters, including
   Federal marine protected areas in such waters (e.g. National Marine
   Sanctuaries), will be submitted to that state or territorial
   government's designated U. S. Coral Reef Task Force point of contact
   for comment;

   (B) Proposals for projects in Federal waters will be submitted to the
   relevant Fishery Management Council for comment;

   (C) Proposals for projects which require Federal permits will be
   submitted to the Federal agency which issued the permit for comment;

   (D) Proposals for projects in Federal marine protected areas managed by
   Federal agencies (e. g. National Wildlife Refuges, National Parks,
   National Marine Sanctuaries, etc.) will be submitted to the respective
   Federal management authority for comment; and

   (E) NOAA will seek comments from other government entities,
   authorities, and/ or jurisdictions, including international entities
   for projects proposed outside of U. S. waters, as necessary based on
   the nature and scope of the proposed project.

   Specifically, agencies will be requested to comment on: the extent to
   which the project is consistent with locally established coral reef
   conservation priorities and projects; whether the project has been
   coordinated with existing or planned projects; suggestions for
   improving project coordination and/or technical approach; and
   appropriate staff points of contact. Each entity will be provided 21
   days to review and comment on subject proposals. Comments submitted
   will be part of the public record.

   (2) Each NOAA program office will provide for a merit- based peer
   review and standardized documentation of that review for proposals
   considered appropriate for funding under their respective category(s).
   Each proposal will be reviewed by a minimum of three individuals with
   knowledge of the subject of the proposal. Each reviewer will submit a
   separate and individual review and reviewers will not provide a
   consensus opinion. The identities of the peer reviewers will be kept
   anonymous to the degree permitted by law. Specific evaluation criteria
   for projects submitted under each funding category will be published in
   each annual Federal Register solicitation. (3) Each NOAA Program Office
   will subsequently implement an internal review process to rank each
   proposal that is appropriate for funding under their program based upon
   consideration of: comments and recommendations from the reviews under
   paragraphs (1)and (2), and their evaluation of each proposal consistent
   with the five following criteria:

   (A) Direct Benefit to Coral Reef Resources and Ecosystems . NOAA will
   evaluate proposals based on the potential of the project to meet goals
   and objectives stated in section 6403(g) of the Act.

   (B) Technical Merit and Adequacy of Implementation Plan. Proposals will
   be evaluated on the technical feasibility of the project and the
   qualifications of project leaders and/or partners based on demonstrated
   abilities to:

   (i) Deliver the conservation objective stated in the proposal;

   (ii) Provide educational benefits, where appropriate;

   (iii) Incorporate assessment of project success in terms of meeting the
   proposed objectives;

   (iv) Demonstrate that the conservation activity will be sustainable and
   long-lasting;

   (v) Provide assurance that implementation of the project will meet all
   state environmental laws and Federal consistency requirements by
   obtaining or proceeding to obtain applicable permits and consultations;
   and

   (C) Past Performance. Proposals will be evaluated on the previous
   accomplishments of the applicants in achieving coral reef conservation
   objectives similar to those outlined in section V. Eligible Coral Reef
   Conservation Activities of these Guidelines. Applicants submitting
   their first coral reef conservation project should document past
   experience in related activities;

   (D) Consistency with the National Coral Reef Action Strategy and the
   National Action Plan to Conserve Coral Reefs. Proposals will be
   evaluated on how well they meet the respective programmatic goals and
   objectives (e. g. goals and objectives for restoration) outlined in the
   National Coral Reef Action Strategy, currently under development
   pursuant to Section 6402 of the Act, and the National Action Plan to
   Conserve Coral Reefs (U. S. Coral Reef Task Force, 2000,
   http://coralreef.gov). Applicants are strongly encouraged to review
   both documents and identify in their application the specific
   conservation objectives that their project proposal will address; and

   (E) Cost-effectiveness and Budget Justification . Proposals will be
   evaluated on their ability to demonstrate that significant benefit will
   be generated for the most reasonable cost. Projects will also be
   reviewed in terms of their need for funding and the ability of NOAA
   funds to act as a catalyst to implement projects and precipitate
   partnerships and other sources of funding to achieve conservation
   objectives. Preference will be given to projects that will be completed
   within a period of 12 months from the time the awards are distributed;

   (4) A NOAA review panel made up of representatives from each NOAA
   program office will review the project rankings from each program
   office and make consensus- based, final project selections and funding
   recommendations to be presented to the NOAA Administrator, or his
   designee, for final approval. The review panel and Administrator, or
   designee, will ensure that the Act requirements for geographic funding
   distribution and consistency with the overall Program goals outlined in
   the Strategy have been met. NOAA reserves the right to consult with
   applicants, prior to making an award, to determine the exact amount of
   funds to be awarded, as well as the most appropriate funding category
   and mechanism under which to consider the project for funding; and

   (5) NOAA will provide written notification of a proposal s approval or
   disapproval to each applicant within 6 months of submitting a coral
   reef conservation proposal. Similarly, NOAA will also provide written
   notification of a project s approval to each State or other government
   jurisdiction that provided comments and/ or reviews.

   Definitions

   In this Program: (1)Administrator means the Administrator of the
   National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.

   (2) Conservation means the use of methods and procedures necessary to
   preserve or sustain corals and associated species as diverse, viable,
   and self-perpetuating coral reef ecosystems, including all activities
   associated with resource management, such as assessment, conservation,
   protection, restoration, sustainable use, and management of habitat;
   mapping; habitat monitoring; assistance in the development of
   management strategies for marine protected areas and marine resources
   consistent with the National Marine Sanctuaries Act (16 U. S. C. 1431
   et seq.) and the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management
   Act (16 U. S. C. 1801 et seq.); law enforcement; conflict resolution
   initiatives; community outreach and education; and that promote safe
   and ecologically sound navigation.

   (3) Cooperative Agreement means a legal instrument reflecting a
   relationship between the Department of Commerce (DoC) and a recipient
   whenever: (1) the principal purpose of the relationship is to transfer
   money, property, services or anything of value to accomplish a public
   purpose of support or stimulation authorized by Federal statute, and
   (2) substantial involvement (e.g. collaboration, participation, or
   intervention by DoC in the management of the project)is anticipated
   between DoC and the recipient during performance of the contemplated
   activity.

   (4) Coral means species of the phylum Cnidaria, including- -

   (A) all species of the orders Antipatharia (black corals), Scleractinia
   (stony corals), Gorgonacea (horny corals), Stolonifera (organpipe
   corals and others), Alcyanacea (soft corals), and Coenothecalia (blue
   coral), of the class Anthozoa; and

   (B) all species of the order Hydrocorallina (fire corals and
   hydrocorals)of the class Hydrozoa.

   (5) Coral Reef means any reefs or shoals composed primarily of corals.

   (6) Coral Reef Ecosystem means coral and other species of reef
   organisms (including reef plants)associated with coral reefs, and the
   non- living environmental factors that directly affect coral reefs,
   that together function as an ecological unit in nature.

   (7) Coral Products means any living or dead specimens, parts, or
   derivatives, or any product containing specimens, parts, or
   derivatives, of any species referred to in paragraph (3).

   (8) Grant means a legal instrument reflecting a relationship between
   DoC and a recipient whenever: (1)the principal purpose of the
   relationship is to transfer money, property, services, or anything of
   value in order to accomplish a public purpose of support or stimulation
   authorized by Federal statute, and (2) no substantial involvement is
   anticipated between DoC and the recipient during the performance of the
   contemplated activity.

   (9) Interagency Agreement, for the purposes of these Guidelines, means
   a written document containing specific provisions of governing
   authorities, responsibilities, and funding, entered into between NOAA
   and another Federal agency where NOAA is funding the other Federal
   agency, pursuant to the Act.

   (10) Secretary means the Secretary of Commerce.

   (11) State means any State of the United States that contains a coral
   reef ecosystem within its seaward boundaries, American Samoa, Guam, the
   Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands, and any
   other territory or possession of the United States, or separate
   sovereign in free association with the United States, that contains a
   coral reef ecosystem within its seaward boundaries. Classification:
   This is a new Program and will be added to the Catalog of Federal
   Domestic Assistance under the Coastal Zone Management Act (11.419),
   Financial Assistance for National Centers for Coastal Ocean Science
   (11.426), and Habitat Conservation (11.463). The Program uses only the
   existing NOAA Federal assistance application package requirements per
   15 CFR parts 14 and 24.

   The program will determine NEPA compliance on a project by project
   basis. This action has been determined to be not significant for
   purposes of Executive Order 12866.

   The use of the standard grants application package referred to in this
   notice involves collection-of-information requirements subject to the
   Paperwork Reduction Act. The use of Standard Forms 424, 424A, 424B, and
   SF-LLL have been approved by OMB under the respective control numbers
   0348-0043, 0348-0044, 0348-0040, and 0348-0046.

   The proposed guidelines also contain new collection- of- information
   requirements subject to review and approval by the Office of Management
   and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act. These requirements
   will be submitted to OMB for approval. Public reporting burden for
   these collections of information is estimated to average one hour per
   request for a matching funds waiver (section IX(6) of these
   Guidelines)and one hour per comment on proposals (section X(1) of these
   Guidelines), including the time for reviewing instructions, searching
   existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and
   completing and reviewing the collection of information.

   Public comment is sought regarding: whether this proposed collection of
   information is necessary for the proper performance of the functions of
   the agency, including whether the information shall have practical
   utility; the accuracy of the burden estimate; ways to enhance the
   quality, utility, and clarity of the information to be collected; and
   ways to minimize the burden of the collection of information, including
   through the use of automated collection techniques or other forms of
   information technology. Send comments on these or any other aspects of
   the collection of information to NOAA Office of Response and
   Restoration at the ADDRESSES above, and to OMB at the Office of
   Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget,
   Washington, DC 20503 (Attention: NOAA Desk Officer).

   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no person is required to
   respond to, nor shall any person be subject to a penalty for failure to
   comply with, a collection of information subject to the Paperwork
   Reduction Act, unless that collection displays a currently valid OMB
   control number.

   Dated: November 30, 2001.

   Scott Gudes,
   Acting Under Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere/ Administrator and
   Deputy Under Secretary
   [FR Doc. 01-30383 Filed 12-7-01; 8:45 am ]
   BILLING CODE 3510–JE–S


   NOAA's Coral Reef home
   Coral Reef Home Year of the Coral Reef 1997
   Year of the Reef 1997 NOAA's Coral Health Monitoring Program
   Coral Health Monitoring Program
