http://www.newyorkcity.feb.gov/weather.htm


   New York Federal Executive Board logo New York City Federal Executive
                                         Board Banner


Hit Alt-X to skip navigation bar

Home

                                                  WEATHER EMERGENCY NOTIFICATION PLAN



INTRODUCTION

   The follow guidelines apply to New York Federal Executive Board (NYFEB)
   member agencies for all weather emergencies and special events in the
   metropolitan New York City (NYC) area. Facilities located outside of
   the
   NYC area may prefer to develop their own plan since they are subject to
   different weather conditions and events.
   Announced recommendations for dismissal or closure are only
   recommendations.
   Application of this guidance must be consistent with the provisions of
   applicable collective bargaining agreements or other controlling
   policies
   of individual agencies.
   Long-range weather conditions are monitored, and based on that
   information the weather subcommittee will issue a recommendation on
   whether to curtail Federal operations.


NOTIFICATION PROCEDURES & AGENCY RESPONSIBILITIES

   The NYFEB will not notify each agency separately.

   This plan features TWO methods of communication to disseminate the
   information as widely and as quickly as possible.
   These methods are:
   1. 24 hour "hotline" - The FEB "hotline" phone number for weather
   information is (212) 264-0748.  Inclement weather information will also
   be on the main FEB telephone number of (212) 264-1890.
   2. FEB Web Site - Information will be posted on the FEB web site at
   www.newyorkcity.feb.gov.
   Based on the NYFEB recommendation, individual Federal Agency heads then
   determine the status of their work place. Agency heads are responsible
   for
   determining closure, dismissal or leave status for their employees
   during
   emergency situations and for communicating that decision to agency
   employees.


WEATHER EMERGENCIES BEFORE THE WORKDAY BEGINS

   The NYFEB will provide one of the following four announcements by
   5:15AM
   via the methods listed in the section above.

   [globul1a.gif] The FEB recommends normal operations;
   [globul1a.gif] The FEB recommends a delayed opening of __hours;
   [globul1a.gif] The FEB recommends a liberal leave policy;
   [globul1a.gif] The FEB recommends closing.


WEATHER EMERGENCIES DURING NORMAL WORKING HOURS

   [globul1a.gif] The FEB recommends continuation of normal operations;
   [globul1a.gif] The FEB recommends suspension of normal activities at
                  __;
   [globul1a.gif] The FEB recommends a liberal leave policy.
                  Comments and recommendations for changes to the plan should be
                  communicated to the FEB office at (212) 264-1890.



                                 Top of page


    Contact: Cynthia.Gable@gsa.gov

   This page was last modified on: November 19, 2001
