http://www.courtreportersboard.ca.gov/whats_new/index.html

    State of California
                       Department of Consumer Affairs
                                                     California Republic

              [scale.gif]
                           Court Reporters Board of California

    The mission of the Court Reporters Board of California is to provide
    users of the judicial system access, consumer education, and consumer
         protection through quality assurance in the qualifications,
            performance, and ethical behavior of court reporters.

                                CRB Home Page
                               About the Board
                               Board Calendar
                            License Verification
                      Education Enforcement/Complaints
                                Examinations
                                    Forms
                                 Newsletters
                             Laws & Legislation
                                 What's New?
             Transcript Reimbursement Fund Links to Other Sites
                           Email the Board Office!

                                 What's New?


                                             School Examination Statistics

   School Examination Statistics

   Successfull Candidates - Nov 2001 Successful Candidates - November 2001

   Examination Statistics June 2001 Examination Statistics - June 2001

   Successful Candidates June 2001 Successful Candidates - June 2001

                                                               Legislation

   Legislation

   Code of Civil Procedure 2025 (d)(5) Code of Civil Procedure 2025(d)(5)

   Code of Civil Procedure 2025 (k) Code of Civil Procedure 2025(k)

   Code of Civil Procedure 2094 Code of Civil Procedure 2094

                                                               Regulations

   Regulations

   Minimum Transcript Format Standards Minimum Transcript Format Standards

                                                       Pending Regulations

   Pending Regulations
     Frequency an applicant may sit for the CSR exam Frequency an
   applicant may sit for the CSR exam
     Fee Schedules Fee Schedules
     Amendments to the Minimum Transcript Format Standards Amendments to
   the Minimum Transcript Format Standards

                                                       Pending Legislation

   Pending Legislation

   SB-26 Figueroa: Would make changes in the requirements on schools and
   the Board. SB-26 Figueroa: Would make changes in the requirements on
   schools and the Board.

   SB-852 Figueroa: Would make additional changes in the requirements on
   schools and the Board. SB-852 Figueroa: Would make additional changes
   in the requirements on schools and the Board.

   SB-805 McPherson: Addresses concerns about AudioSync in the Code of
   Civil Procedure. SB-805 McPherson: Addresses concerns about AudioSync
   in the Code of Civil Procedure.

                     Court Reporters Board of California
   CRB Home Page | About the Board | Board Calendar | License Verification
        | Education | Enforcement/Complaints | Examinations | Forms |
         Newsletters | Laws & Legislation | What's New? | Transcript
     Reimbursement Fund | Links to Other Sites | Email the Board Office!
