http://www.nifl.gov/nifl/faqs.html

   LINCSearch National Institute for Literacy Spacer Image
                                              Site Map
                                              Skip Navigational Links
                                              FAQs

                                                                About NIFL

   Frequently Asked Questions

   News & Events

   Programs & Services

   Policy & Legislation

   Publications

   Join Mailing List

   Contact NIFL

   For Other Literacy Resources, Go To LINCS


   Frequently Asked Questions

     * What is literacy?
     * How is adult literacy measured?
     * How literate is the adult population?
     * Where can I find out about literacy rates in my area?
     * How does literacy in the US compare with other countries?
     * How can I get funding for my adult literacy program?
     * How do I find a nearby literacy program?
     * How do I start an adult literacy program?
     * Where can I volunteer to work with adult learners?
     * Where can I find tutoring materials?
     * Where can I get a poster about literacy?
     * Where can my organization donate books?
     * What are learning disabilities and what is their relationship to
       literacy?
     * Is there a National Literacy Day?
     * What is International Literacy Day?
     * Where can I learn about literacy-related policy in my state?

   What is literacy?

   The Workforce Investment Act of 1998 defines literacy as "an
   individual's ability to read, write, speak in English, compute and
   solve problems at levels of proficiency necessary to function on the
   job, in the family of the individual and in society." This is a broader
   view of literacy than just an individual's ability to read, the more
   traditional concept of literacy. As information and technology have
   become increasingly shaped our society, the skills we need to function
   successfully have gone beyond reading, and literacy has come to include
   the skills listed in the current definition.

   How is adult literacy measured?

   When literacy was simply a synonym for reading skill, it was typically
   measured in grade-level equivalents. In other words, an adult's
   literacy skill was described as equivalent to reading at a grade in the
   kindergarten-12th grade system.

   A more complex, more realistic conception of literacy that emphasizes
   its uses in adult activities helped create momentum for new forms of
   literacy measurement. To determine the literacy skills of American
   adults, the 1992 National Adult Literacy Survey (NALS) used test items
   that resembled everyday life tasks involving prose, document and
   quantitative skills. The NALS classified the results into five levels
   that are now commonly used to describe adults' literacy skills.

   Almost all adults in Level 1 can read a little but not well enough to
   fill out an application, read a food label, or read a simple story to a
   child. Adults in Level 2 usually can perform more complex tasks such as
   comparing, contrasting, or integrating pieces of information but
   usually not higher level reading and problem-solving skills. Adults in
   levels 3 through 5 usually can perform the same types of more complex
   tasks on increasingly lengthy and dense texts and documents.

   How literate is the adult population?

   Very few adults in the US are truly illiterate. Rather, there are many
   adults with low literacy skills who lack the foundation they need to
   find and keep decent jobs, support their children's education and
   participate actively in civic life. Between 21 and 23 percent of the
   adult population or approximately 44 million people, according to the
   National Adult Literacy Survey (NALS), scored in Level 1 (see
   description above). Another 25-28 percent of the adult population, or
   between 45 and 50 million people, scored in Level 2. Literacy experts
   believe that adults with skills at Levels 1 and 2 lack a sufficient
   foundation of basic skills to function successfully in our society.

   Many factors help to explain the relatively large number of adults in
   Level 1. Twenty-five percent of adults in Level 1 were immigrants who
   may have just been learning to speak English. More than 60 percent
   didn't complete high school. More than 30 percent were over 65. More
   than twenty-five percent had physical or mental conditions that kept
   them from fully participating in work, school, housework, or other
   activities, and almost twenty percent had vision problems that affected
   their ability to read print.

   What are learning disabilities and what is their relationship to
   literacy?

   Learning disabilities (LD) include a wide variety of disorders that are
   thought to be neurological in origin and that affect one or more of the
   basic processes involved in understanding or using spoken or written
   language. Adults who have difficulties with listening, thinking,
   speaking, reading or writing are likely to experience problems that
   significantly affect their academic achievement and their lives in
   general. Estimates of LD in the general population range from 3 to 13
   percent. Among adults with low literacy levels, the estimates are much
   higher - between 30 and 80 percent.

   Where can I find out about literacy rates in my area?

   The National Institute for Literacy commissioned a study to apply the
   results of the National Adult Literacy Survey (NALS) to the state,
   county, and congressional district level. The study, called The State
   of Literacy in America, shows the percentage of Level 1 adults in each
   of these jurisdictions. A database allows you to customize the search.

   How does literacy in the US compare with other countries?

   The International Adult Literacy Survey (IALS), a 1997 survey similar
   in design to the National Adult Literacy Survey (NALS) (see above),
   compared the literacy skills of adults in Australia, Belgium, Canada,
   Germany, Ireland, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Poland, Sweden,
   Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. The results showed that the US has
   more adults in Levels 1 and 2 than any of the other countries except
   Poland. A more detailed report on the IALS, called Literacy, Economy
   and Society, is available at http://www.nald.ca/nls/ials/introduc.htm.

   How can I get funding for my adult literacy program?

   The National Institute for Literacy (NIFL) is not primarily a funding
   organization. From time to time, the NIFL funds a very few projects
   that encourage reform of the national adult literacy service delivery
   system. When funding is available, a Request for Proposals is published
   on the NIFL website and in the Federal Register. LINCS also provides
   information about other sources of available funding at
   http://www.nifl.gov/lincs/grants/grants.html.

   How do I find a nearby literacy program?

   To find a literacy program in your neighborhood, go to America's
   Literacy Directory at http://www.literacydirectory.org or call the
   National Institute for Literacy Hotline at 1-800-228-8813 to speak with
   an English- or Spanish-speaking operator. You can also check with a
   neighborhood library, community college or city or county human
   services office or contact your state's Director of Adult Education to
   find out about federally-funded programs. Contact the national offices
   of Literacy Volunteers of America and Laubach Literacy Action to see if
   there are one-on-one volunteer tutoring programs in your area. If your
   interest is family literacy, contact the Even Start office in your
   state at or the National Center for Family Literacy.

   How do I start an adult literacy program?

   First, find out if there are already local literacy programs that could
   meet the need or grow to meet the need (see above). There are thousands
   of literacy programs throughout the country, and it's very likely
   there's one nearby.

   If there isn't an existing program, begin planning a new program by
   looking for partners in the community. Partners with experience in
   providing education or other human services, business expertise, and
   links to the community can help ensure that a new program provides high
   quality services and can sustain itself financially. You may also want
   to consult a new publication from the Illinois Resource Development
   Center called Let Data Be Your Guide: A Planning Handbook for and by
   Library Adult Literacy Programs.

   Where can I volunteer to work with adult learners?

   To volunteer to work one-on-one with an adult learner, contact Literacy
   Volunteers of America, Laubach Literacy Action or a local public
   library. Many public libraries run volunteer adult literacy programs.
   Most adult learning centers offer group classes in which volunteers
   sometimes act as teachers' aides. You can also call the NIFL Hotline at
   800-228-8813 for a referral to local volunteer programs. Search the
   internet or check the metro or community sections of newspapers for
   notices of volunteer opportunities.

   If you're interested in working with children, contact America Reads at
   http://www.americareads.org or Everybody Wins at
   http://www.ebodywins.org or the closest public school. Many elementary
   schools and some middle and high schools run their own tutoring
   programs.

   Where can I find tutoring materials?

   The organization you're affiliated with should provide you with or help
   you find appropriate materials. You also can check LINCS at
   http://www.nifl.gov/lincs and click on the teacher/tutor button. Your
   state literacy resource center or state office of adult education may
   be helpful; look on LINCS at http://www.ed.gov/Programs/bastmp/SLRC.htm
   to find lists of those numbers.

   The Ohio Literacy Resource Center also has published two lists of books
   reviewed by adult literacy professionals and recommended for use in
   adult literacy programs. Many of the books are for new adult readers. A
   book of poetry for new adult readers may be purchased by contacting the
   International Reading Association at 800 Barksdale Rd., P.O. Box 8139,
   Newark, DE 19714-8139.

   Where can I get a poster about literacy?

   The American Library Association (ALA) sells a variety of posters about
   reading for approximately $10 each through their Online Store. Visit
   the ALA webpage at http://www.ala.org/market/graphics/parade.html to
   see them.

   Where can my organization donate books?

   Contact a local public library or your State Literacy Resource Center
   and ask for recommendations. The list of Centers can be found at
   http://www.ed.gov/Programs/bastmp/SLRC.htm.

   Is there a National Literacy Day?

   Last year, the US Congress designated July 2, 2000 as National Literacy
   Day. States, cities and counties also occasionally pass laws declaring
   a literacy month or week in their own jurisdictions. However, there is
   no permanently-established National Literacy Day.

   What is International Literacy Day?

   In 1965, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
   Organization (UNESCO) designated September 8 as International Literacy
   Day. Each year, the UNESCO Secretary-General issues a statement, and
   four prizes are awarded. Local organizations often plan their own
   celebrations.
   Where can I learn about literacy-related policy in my state?

   NIFL in the States is a new research and implementation tool from the
   Institute. When fully completed, users will be able find information
   about NIFL's involvement in each state and territory, other key
   resources in the states, and whom to contact to get involved or learn
   more. Currently, this tool includes state-level policy and legislative
   information. Information on other NIFL programs and activities is
   coming soon.


              NIFL HOME CONTACT NIFL ABOUT NIFL NATIONAL LINCS
