http://www.faa.gov/agc/enforcement/index.htm

                         Aviation Safety Information
                         [return.jpg] [safety3.jpg]

                        QUARTERLY ENFORCEMENT REPORT

   Introduction
   The Federal Aviation Administration is publishing a quarterly
   compilation of enforcement actions against regulated aviation entities
   that are closed with a civil penalty or issuance of a certificate
   suspension or revocation. The compilation is based on data from the
   agency's Enforcement Information System (EIS). For purposes of this
   compilation, a regulated aviation entity holds a certificate issued by
   the FAA, e.g., air carrier operating certificate, repair station
   certificate, pilot school certificate, airport operating certificate,
   or is a foreign air carrier or other aviation entity regulated under
   Part 129 of the Federal Aviation Regulations, 14 CFR part 129.
   Civil Penalties
   The FAA has authority to issue orders assessing a civil penalty of up
   to $50,000 for violations of certain aviation laws and regulations. An
   air carrier is subject to a penalty of up to $11,000 for a single
   violation of the aviation law or an FAA regulation; other entities are
   subject to a penalty of up to $1,100. There is no $50,000 limitation on
   assessments for violations of the Hazardous Materials Transportation
   Safety Act or the Hazardous Materials Transportation Regulations, and
   the penalty for each violation of these requirements ranges from $250
   to $27,000.
   Before a penalty is assessed, an entity may appeal the notice proposing
   a civil penalty. A hearing before one of the Department of
   Transportation's administrative law judges (ALJ) is available. Any
   decision by an ALJ may be appealed to the FAA Administrator.
   For civil penalties in excess of $50,000 (for other than hazardous
   materials violations), the FAA has authority to compromise a penalty,
   but not assess it. This type of action is initiated when the FAA sends
   a civil penalty letter to an entity. The letter advises that the FAA
   believes the entity has violated a statute or regulation. The letter
   also states that the FAA is willing to accept a penalty of a specified
   amount in resolution of the matter. An entity may pay this amount or
   another agreed-upon amount, including an amount less than $50,000 and
   no adjudicated finding of violation is made a part of the entity's
   enforcement record. If an entity does not agree to the compromise, the
   case is referred to a United States Attorney for prosecution in United
   States district court. There a penalty is assessed, if appropriate, and
   findings of violation, which serve as part of a certificate holder's
   enforcement record, can be made.
   Final decisions by the Administrator or the district court may be
   appealed to a United States court of appeals.
   Certificate Actions
   Certificate suspensions of a fixed number of days are issued to
   discipline an alleged violator and to deter others similarly situated.
   Suspensions of indefinite duration are issued to prevent a certificate
   holder from exercising the privileges of a certificate pending
   demonstration that the certificate holder meets the standards required
   to hold its certificate. Certificate revocations are issued when the
   FAA determines that a certificate holder is no longer qualified to hold
   a certificate. Orders of suspension and revocation issued by the FAA
   may be appealed to the National Transportation Safety Board, and the
   Board's decisions may be reviewed by a United States court of appeals.
   Informal Procedures and Settlements
   There is an opportunity at the beginning of most enforcement cases for
   informal procedures, including an informal conference with an FAA
   attorney, to give the alleged violator a chance to bring to the FAA's
   attention information favorable to it, e.g., exculpatory or mitigating
   evidence. During these informal procedures an enforcement action can
   sometimes be resolved to the mutual satisfaction of the parties.
   Either during the informal procedures or later in the process, cases
   are often settled without resort to the full litigation process. Such
   settlements often result after consideration of the risks and expense
   of litigation. Settlements may reflect a lower civil penalty amount,
   sometimes due to charges being dropped, or the payment of a civil
   penalty without a violation established as a matter of record. In the
   latter case, the FAA may issue a compromise order. In some situations,
   multiple cases are resolved at one time, a situation when a consent
   order, signed by the FAA and the regulated entity, may be issued.
   Finally, sometimes cases initiated as certificate actions, i.e.,
   suspensions or revocations, are resolved by payment of a civil penalty.
   Understanding the Report
   At the end of each quarter of the calendar year, the FAA compiles a
   data run for all enforcement actions against aviation entities that
   involve safety and security issues and are closed with a civil penalty
   or issuance of an order of certificate suspension or revocation. For
   purposes of this report, cases are considered to be closed after an
   order has been issued that is no longer appealable or when a civil
   penalty is compromised. For other record-keeping purposes in the
   Enforcement Information System a case is considered closed only after
   some other event, e.g., payment of a civil penalty or a determination
   that the penalty is not collectable or, in the case of suspension or
   revocation, surrender of the certificate.
   Following is an explanation of the terminology used in the report:
   Case Number
   Beginning with the reports for calendar year 1999, the case number for
   each enforcement action will be listed in this column. The case number
   is the number of the enforcement investigative report for that
   enforcement action.
   Name
   The name of the aviation entity is listed in this column. The entity
   ordinarily holds an FAA-issued certificate and, in those cases, the
   name in the column is the name of the certificate holder recorded in
   the FAA's official records.
   Entity Type
   The following are explanations of the abbreviations that are used in
   this column of the report:

   A/C or COMM OPER An air carrier or a commercial operator is an entity
   that engages in the carriage by aircraft of persons or property for
   compensation or hire.
   FOREIGN AIR CAR Foreign air carrier
   AGRI OPR Agricultural Operator
   APPROVD REPAIR STA Approved Repair Station
   CERTIFICATE SCHOOL Cerificated School
   AIRPORT OPERATOR Airport Operator
   AIRCRAFT PROD Aircraft Production
   TRAVEL CLUB Travel club
   EXT LOAD External Load Rotorcraft
   COMP PROD Component Production

   Date Known
   The date a violation or apparent violation became known to the FAA is
   listed in this column.
   Action
   The type of legal enforcement action taken is listed in this column.
   The following are explanations of the abbreviations used in this column
   of the report.

   CIVIL PENALTY Civil Penalty Letter
   ORD ASSESS CIVIL PENALTY
   Order Assessing Civil Penalty
   ORD ASSESS CP HMT
   Order Assessing Civil Penalty for a violation of the Hazardous
   Materials Transportation Act or regulations
   CP COMPROMIS NO FINDING
   Civil Penalty Compromise Order, No Findings of Violation
   CERTIFICATE REVOCATION
   Certificate revocation under 49 U.S.C. ยง 44709
   CERTIFICATE SUSPENSION
   Certificate Suspension under 49 U.S.C. ยง 44709
   CONSENT ORDER
   Consent Order

   Sanction Amount
   This column contains the amount of dollars of a civil penalty or the
   number of days for a certificate suspension. The column is blank in the
   case of a certificate revocation.
   Sanction

   The final sanction is either "dollars," which indicates that the number
   in the Final Amount column reflects a civil penalty, or "days," which
   indicates that the number in the Final Amount column reflects a
   certificate suspension for the specified number of days. "Indefinite
   duration" is an entry that reflects that a certificate has been
   suspended indefinitely pending demonstration that the certificate
   holder meets the standards required to hold its certificate.
   "Revocation" is also an entry under the Sanction Type heading,
   indicating certificate revocation. "Consolidated Case" is another entry
   in this column. It indicates that the case is one of a number of cases
   that were closed together. The sanction attributable to the case is
   part of the sanction amount listed with another, "master" case of the
   same certificate holder that was closed on the same date. The "master"
   case is listed above the case(s) labeled as consolidated.

   "Sanction waived" indicates that the FAA has agreed not to impose
   against the aviation entity the corresponding number of days or dollars
   in the Sanction Amount Column. The FAA's agreement usually is based on
   the aviation entity's agreement to take steps beyond minimum regulatory
   requirements to enhance the safety or security of its operation. If the
   aviation entity does not carry through on its commitment, the FAA will
   impose the amount of sanction that was to have been waived. In cases
   where some sanction is waived, the total amount of sanction against the
   aviation entity equals the amount of sanction waived plus the amount of
   sanction listed directly above it.
   Case Type

   This column lists a category of violation or apparent violation that
   was primarily involved in the case. Following are explanations of the
   violation categories used in the report:

   FLT OPNS
   Flight operations
   MAINTENANCE
   Maintenance
   RECORDS/RPTS
   Records and reports
   TRNG-FLT CREW
   Training, Flight Crew
   TRNG-OTHER
   Training, other than flight crew
   HAZ MAT
   Hazardous Materials
   ARPT SURF/SAFE
   Airport Surfaces/Safety Areas
   OBSTRUCT/LGTNG
   Obstructions/Lighting
   CRASH/FIRE/RES
   Crash, Fire, and Rescue
   ARPT OPN/INSP
   Airport Operations/Self inspection
   QUAL CONTROL
   Quality control
   TYPE DESGN DATA
   Type Design Data
   TSO
   Technical Standard Order
   AIRCRAFT ALTR
   Aircraft Alterations
   NEAR MID-AIR
   Near Mid-air
   HAZ AIR NAV
   Hazard to Air Navigation
   HAZ PER/PROP
   Hazardous to persons or property on the surface
   INTFR CREW
   Interference with Crewmember
   NOISE
   Noise
   SECURITY
   Security
   MEDICAL
   Medical
   DRUG TESTING
   Drug Testing
   OTHER
   Other

   The category "Other" could include violations such as a certificate
   holder's failure to surrender a certificate or an air carrier's
   allowing a person who appears to be intoxicated to board its aircraft.
   The field inspector has the discretion to determine the case type or
   category of the violation.

   Closed Date
   This column contains the date on which an order was issued or, if a
   case went through the full appeals process, the decision was issued.
   The cases are listed in chronological order based on closing date from
   the beginning to end of a quarter.

   AGC Enforcement Action Database Quarters

                      (*)
               1/1/97 - 3/31/97
             ( ) 4/1/97 - 9/30/97
            ( ) 10/1/97 - 12/31/97
             ( ) 1/1/98 - 3/31/98
             ( ) 4/1/98 - 6/30/98
             ( ) 7/1/98 - 9/30/98
            ( ) 10/1/98 - 12/31/98
            ( ) 01/01/99 - 03/31/99
            ( ) 04/01/99 - 06/30/99
            ( ) 07/01/99 - 09/30/99
            ( ) 10/1/99 - 12/31/99
            ( ) 01/01/00 - 03/31/00
            ( ) 04/01/00 - 06/30/00
            ( ) 07/01/00 - 09/30/00
            ( ) 10/01/00 - 12/31/00

                    SUBMIT
