http://sti.soicc.ca.gov/Publications/CareerTips.pdf

   by Jon Sargent Finish high school. Nearly every job Consider continuing
   your Research career information. A requires basic communication and
   math education. The more education you small investment of your time
   will help skills. Compared to workers at higher get, the higher your
   earnings are likely to you make an informed career choice education
   levels, high school dropouts be. On average, high school graduates that
   could pay dividends throughout have more difficulty getting and earn
   more than high school your life. There are hundreds of keeping jobs.
   They also have lower dropouts. Those who receive occupations, so
   choosing and plan- earnings throughout their lives. postsecondary
   training earn more ning a career is a lot more complex than high school
   dropouts and than it may appear. The ideal career graduates. And
   workers who have for you might be something you've bachelor's or higher
   degrees usually never heard of or thought about. The Plan your career.
   Seek out informa- earn more than those with less Occupational Outlook
   Handbook and tion about occupations with favorable education. other
   career publications are loaded career prospects, high earnings, and
   with helpful information. other attributes that are important to you.
   Having a solid career plan can affect your future prospects more than
   how much education you have. Develop basic computer skills. True,
   college study increases oppor- Take advantage of every opportunity to
   Value your personal interests tunities for careers with above- acquire
   computer proficiency. Regard- and abilities. You shouldn't be average
   earnings-but not in all less of whether you continue your dissuaded
   from a career that interests fields. Good opportunities await education
   beyond high school, you just because it's competitive. If your workers
   without college degrees chances are that you will need at interests and
   abilities draw you to a who spend several years learning a least
   minimal computer skills to do field like acting, journalism, law,
   sought-after skill or craft. your job. piloting, or some other
   competitive occupation-go for it. Just be prepared for the challenges
   that may lie ahead. Learn how to conduct a good job Gain experience
   early. Learning by search and develop a résumé. No doing is a great way
   to approach a matter what you do after high school, prospective career.
   Internships, part- you will have to market your skills as time jobs,
   and volunteer work are Keep learning. Take every opportunity you search
   for a job. Learning about some examples of ways to get hands- to learn
   new skills. The more you résumé preparation and job search on
   experience while still in school. upgrade your skills to the constantly
   techniques will help you get through Not only do these opportunities
   help changing world of work, the more the process more easily. Workers
   you make smarter career decisions, likely you-and your career-will
   average more than 8 different jobs by they may help you get hired after
   adapt along with it. age 32, so prepare to change jobs- graduation;
   most employers value even careers-until you find the one work-related
   experience. that's right for you. Jon Sargent is a supervisory
   economist in the Office of Employment Projections, BLS, (202) 606-5722.
   Occupational Outlook Quarterly G Occupational Outlook Quarterly Summer
   1999 G Summer 1999 41 41
