http://origins.jpl.nasa.gov/library/extrasolar/010802-a.html


   Origins [blank-space.gif]
           [l2-feedback.gif] Site Map Home [icon-top-library.jpg]

   [l2-top-left-menu.jpg]    [blank-space.gif] Search
       ____________ Go!
   [icon-bottom-library.jpg]

   What is the Origins Program?
   Missions
   Science
   Technology
   Astrobiology
   Educator Resources
   Library
   [l2-bottom-left-menu.jpg]
   [blank-space.gif]
   Search for Extrasolar Planets

   Protostellar Disk L1157 SHOCK ZONE FOUND WHERE PLANETS ARE BORN
   08-January-2002

   Article courtesy of Jet Propulsion Laboratory
   Image Credit: NASA

   In research that may help reveal how planets form, astronomers have
   gathered evidence that a shock is created when material falls in toward
   a dust disk around a growing star.

   "This is a very important step in our understanding of how stars and
   planets develop," said Dr. Thangasamy Velusamy, principal research
   scientist at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, Calif. "It
   gives us some insight into the process by which planetary systems could
   begin around stars." Velusamy and his colleagues will present their
   findings today at the American Astronomical Society winter meeting in
   Washington, D.C.

   Dusty disks around stars, called protostellar disks, form from gas and
   dust in interstellar clouds. The disks grow as they accumulate material
   falling in from the parent cloud. Where the cloud material meets the
   disk, astronomers had predicted that a warm shock would occur. This new
   discovery confirms that prediction.

   Scientists believe dust particles in these disks clump together,
   eventually leading to small rocks, which can join together to form
   planets and comets. Scientists believe that a similar process formed
   Earth and the other planets of our solar system from a dusty disk
   around our parent star, the Sun.

   At the shock zone, the newly introduced material slows down and
   redistributes itself throughout the disk. Some will make its way toward
   the center and become part of the developing star, while some will
   eventually become part of the planets.

   Protostellar disks, like the one observed by Velusamy and his
   colleagues in cloud Lynds 1157 (located about 1,300 light years from
   Earth in the constellation Cepheus), contain mostly molecular hydrogen.
   Other ingredients include tiny dust particles and trace amounts of such
   chemicals as carbon monoxide and methanol, or rubbing alcohol. Because
   the falling material and the disk are so cold, these chemicals freeze
   on the dust particles and can not be seen. However, when a shock is
   produced at the disk's surface, the resulting heat warms the dust
   particles and releases their icy mantles. This transforms the ice into
   a gas that emits radiation in radio wavelengths, which can be detected.

   Using the Owens Valley Radio Observatory Millimeter Array near Bishop,
   Calif., the team of scientists, including Dr. William Langer, senior
   research scientist at JPL, and Dr. Paul Goldsmith, a professor of
   astronomy at Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y., confirmed the presence
   of a dusty disk in L1157. They also found the first-ever evidence for
   the shock region. It was detected when telltale disk emissions
   indicated the presence of methanol only at the predicted shock zone.

   "The methanol emission looks different than the distribution of
   material already in the disk," noted Goldsmith.

   "Methanol is intriguing, since it is abundant in both interstellar
   space and in comets, and is a chemical starting point for more complex
   molecules, including those that eventually form life," said Langer.

   Protostellar disks are planetary construction zones. Over the past
   several years, astronomers have discovered planets orbiting dozens of
   other stars. The key mystery waiting to be solved is whether any
   extrasolar planet may have conditions suitable for life, and if so,
   whether life exists there.

   The latest findings will appear in the January 20, 2002 issue of the
   Astrophysical Journal Letters. The scientists plan further research on
   the chemical makeup of planet-forming disks. Future NASA missions will
   also study these dust disks. The Space Infrared Telescope Facility may
   study ice crystals in the disks as part of its investigations. Other
   planned missions, including the Terrestrial Planet Finder, will be able
   to image planetary systems forming in disks around other stars. Both
   missions are managed by JPL.

   An image of the new observation is available online at
   http://www.jpl.nasa.gov/images/sg_other. The Owens Valley Radio
   Observatory Millimeter Array, operated by the California Institute of
   Technology in Pasadena, is supported in part by the National Science
   Foundation. Caltech manages JPL for NASA.
