http://www.trade.wa.gov/washingt.htm

                          [USEMAP:newtradewebhdr.gif]

                          Washington at a Glance...

   Washington State is the choice for many U.S. and international
   businesses seeking a new site for business growth. Washington’s
   location on the Pacific Rim makes it a convenient location for
   businesses focused on Asian markets, or for distribution businesses
   directed at the U.S. market. The polar route means that Europe is as
   close as Asia. The state’s highly trained and motivated work force,
   superior education system, low-cost energy rates and desirable living
   conditions not only entice companies to move to the state, they
   encourage existing businesses to focus expansion plans close to home.

   Washington recently attracted world-class companies, such as Boise
   Cascade, Consolidated Freightways, MicroChip, Rockport Projects
   Limited, Toyocom, Westech Aerosol, and Wheeling Corrugated. These
   companies represent approximately $1.2 billion business investment and
   2,050 new jobs.

   For more information on Washington State please visit our Tourism
   website and our Business Development Website.


   Fading Marquis Banner showing three lines of text


     Home  What We Do Programs Foreign Contract Representatives   News &
    Events   Where is Washington  Why is Trade Important   Foreign Trade
      Zones Trade Statistics Press Releases Ports  Economic Development
      Council's  Consulates  Info & Resources   Financing Import/Export
    Guide   NASDA Listing   Publications  Washington at a Glance  Intern
     Program Employment Did you know? Sister Cities Contact Us   Access
    Washington  CTED Home   Search   Info Request   Disclaimer & Privacy
                                  Statement

     Web site designed and maintained by Jennifer Williams, e-mail with
                 questions or comments about this web site.
        Copyright © 2001 Washington State Office of Trade & Economic
                                 Development

                       Last modified: October 19, 2001

               Access Washington             [otedlogoblk.gif]
