http://pubsci.osti.gov//pshelp.html

                               PubScience Help

   Basic System Functionalityy
   System Requirements
   Searching PubSCIENCE
   Viewing Bibliographic Citations
   Accessing Full Text
   Additional Help

   Basic System Functionality
   PubSCIENCE allows users to search bibliographic journal citations from
   participating publishers and the DOE Energy Database (EDB).  A list of
   journal titles and their issue dates is available for each publisher
   from the Collections page.  After the search is executed, bibliographic
   citations are displayed based on the specific search criteria.  A link
   to the full-text journal article is provided in the citation that will
   take the researcher to the publisher's Web site where the full-text can
   be obtained.  The article will come up immediately if the user or
   his/her organization has a subscription to the journal.  If the user
   lacks such a subscription, access to the full-text will normally
   require a new subscription, site license, pay-per view arrangement, or
   library access.  Available options vary with each publisher.  Fee-based
   arrangements to view the full-text are the responsibility of the users.

   Users may restrict their search to citations that have full-text
   available from the publisher site.  This option is activated by
   checking the "Search Items Linked to Full-Text" in the blue box on the
   Search screen.  By choosing this option citation-only resources, such
   as the DOE Energy Database, will not be queried.

   Users have three options when selecting publisher(s) to search:

   - A single publisher may be selected;
   - "All" specifies all available information published from 10 years to
     present;
   - "Archive" specifies available information published more than 10
     years ago.

   System Requirements
   To view the PubSCIENCE web pages, minimum requirements are Netscape 4.0
   or Microsoft Internet Explorer 4.  The minimum requirements for the
   Macintosh user are Netscape 4.61 or Microsoft Internet Explorer 4.5.

   Searching PubSCIENCE
   Two different search screens are provided in PubSCIENCE:
     * Basic Search - Allows you to search the title, author, and full
       bibliographic record of publications in PubSCIENCE.
     * Advanced Search - Allows you to do field searching and to formulate
       complex queries.   You can perform a simple search by selecting a
       single field and submitting your query, or you can formulate a
       complex query by selecting multiple fields and connecting them with
       Operators.

   The following search features are provided:
     * Pick Lists - Pick Lists have been created for certain selections on
       the Basic and Advanced Search.  You can select one or more pick
       list values from the drop-down menu.  To select one, simple click
       the value you want included in your query.
     * Wild Card Searches - The asterisk (*) is used as a wild card in
       PubSCIENCE.  Using a wild card allows you to search for words or
       entries with the same prefix or stem.   For example:  computer*
       (will find computer, computers, computerize, etc.); manag* (will
       find manage, management, manager, managing, etc.).
     * Literal Search - PubSCIENCE allows you to search for exact
       character strings or phrases.   This is known as a literal search
       and provides the same functionality as the adjacency operator.  To
       search, key in a phrase in the WORD OR PHRASE query box.   For
       example, using the Entire Record:
           ground water contamination
           high performance computing
     * Date Range Searching - PubSCIENCE supports date range searching.
       For example, to find documents published between "April 1977 and
       January 1978", go to the Advanced Search and input the date range
       19770400 and 19780101 in the "Select a Date Range" box.
     * Operators - Operators can be used in PubSCIENCE to broaden or
       narrow your queries.   Operators are special words that are used to
       indicate logical relationships between the descriptive terms that
       make up your query.  Three basic operators can be used in
       PubSCIENCE.  They are:
          + AND narrows your search.  All documents retrieved must contain
            all of the search elements you specify.  For example:
            technical AND information; radioactive AND waste AND
            management
          + OR broadens your search.  All documents retrieved must contain
            at least one of the search elements you specify.  For
            example:  nuclear OR radioactive; metals OR alloys.
          + NOT narrows your search by allowing you to exclude specific
            search elements.  For example:  underground disposal NOT
            radioactive; air pollution NOT ozone
     * Case Sensitivity - Queries conducted in PubSCIENCE are case
       insensitive.  This means that a word entered in lower case will
       match words in upper case, lower case, or mixed case.

   Viewing Bibliographic Citations
     * Initiate a search, using either Basic or Advanced Search screen
     * From the Search Results page, click on the title of your choice
     * A single frame containing the bibliographic information will be
       displayed

   Accessing Full-Text
   As part of the bibliographic citation, a live link to the publisher is
   provided.   Dependent upon specific publisher arrangements the user
   will:
     * access the full-text, if available
     * find information on a pay-per-view option
     * be guided to a publisher subscription page

   Additional Help
   Technical help regarding this service?  Contact the GPO Access User
   Support Team by Internet e-mail at gpoaccess@gpo.gov; by telephone at
   1-202-512-1530 (D.C. Metro Area) or toll free at 1-888-293-6498; by fax
   at 1-202-512-1262.

    PubSCIENCE Home Page | About | Search | Help | Collections | Related
                                    Links
