http://www.regents.nysed.gov/educlaw.html

                         Education Law and the Regents*

   [blue_lin.gif]

   [blue.gif] 202. Regents

   The University of the State of New York shall be governed and all its
   corporate powers exercised by a board of regents the number of whose
   members shall at all times be four more than the number of the then
   existing judicial districts of the state and shall not be less than
   fifteen. The regents in office April first, nineteen hundred
   seventy-four shall hold office, in the order of their election, for
   such times that the term of one such regent will expire in each year on
   the first day of April. Commencing April first, nineteen hundred
   seventy-four, each regent shall be elected for a term of seven years,
   each such term to expire on the first day of April. Commencing on April
   first, nineteen hundred ninety-four, each regent shall be elected for a
   term of five years, each such term to expire on the first day of April.
   Each regent shall be elected by the legislature by concurrent
   resolution in the preceding March, on or before the first Tuesday of
   such month. If, however, the legislature fails to agree on such
   concurrent resolution by the first Tuesday of such month, then the two
   houses shall meet in joint session at noon on the second Tuesday of
   such month and proceed to elect such regent by joint ballot.

   [blue.gif] 203. Officers

   The elective officers of the university shall be a chancellor and a
   vice-chancellor who shall serve without a salary, and such other
   officers as are deemed necessary by the regents, all of whom shall be
   chosen by ballot by the regents and shall hold office during their
   pleasure; but no election, removal or change of salary of an elective
   officer shall be made by less than six votes in favor thereof. Each
   regent and each elective officer shall, before entering on his duties,
   take and file with the secretary of state the oath of office required
   to state officers.

   The chancellor shall preside at all convocations and at all meetings of
   the regents, and confer all degrees which they shall authorize. In his
   absence or inability to act, the vice-chancellor, or if he be also
   absent, the senior regent present, shall perform all the duties and
   have all the powers of the chancellor.

   [blue.gif] 204. Meetings and absences

   The regents may provide for regular meetings, and the chancellor, or
   the commissioner of education, or any five regents, may at any time
   call a special meeting of the board of regents and fix the time and
   place therefor; and at least ten days' notice of every meeting shall be
   mailed to the usual address of each regent. If any regent shall fail to
   attend three consecutive meetings, without excuse accepted as
   satisfactory by the regents, he may be deemed to have resigned and the
   regents shall then report the vacancy to the legislature, which shall
   fill it.

   [blue.gif] 205. Quorum

   Seven regents attending shall be a quorum for the transaction of
   business.

   [blue.gif] 206. Authority to take testimony and conduct hearings

   The regents, any committee thereof, the commissioner of education, the
   deputy and any associate and assistant commissioner of education and
   the counsel of the department may take testimony or hear proofs
   relating to their official duties, or in any matter which they may
   lawfully investigate. Hearings by the regents pursuant to any of the
   provisions of this chapter may be given by or before not less than
   three members of the regents designated by the regents or by the
   chancellor of the university to hold such hearings, but any decision or
   determination in such proceedings shall be made by the regents.

   [blue.gif] 207. Legislative power

   Subject and in conformity to the constitution and laws of the state,
   the regents shall exercise legislative functions concerning the
   educational system of the state, determine its educational policies
   and, except, as to the judicial functions of the commissioner of
   education, establish rules for carrying into effect the laws and
   policies of the state, relating to education, and the functions,
   powers, duties and trusts conferred or charged upon the university and
   the education department. But no enactment of the regents shall modify
   in any degree the freedom of the governing body of any seminary for the
   training of priests or clergymen to determine and regulate the entire
   course of religious, doctrinal and theological instruction to be given
   in such institution. No rule by which more than a majority vote shall
   be required for any specified action by the regents shall be amended,
   suspended or repealed by a smaller vote than that required for action
   thereunder. Rules or regulations, or amendments of education as
   provided by law shall not be effective unless and until approved by the
   regents, except where authority is conferred by the regents upon the
   commissioner of education to adopt, prescribe, amend or repeal such
   rules or regulations.

   [blue.gif] 208. General examinations, credentials and degrees

   The regents may confer by diploma under their seal such honorary
   degrees as they may deem proper, and may establish examinations as to
   attainments in learning, and may award and confer suitable
   certificates, diplomas and degrees on persons who satisfactorily meet
   the requirements prescribed.

   [blue.gif] 209. Academic examinations; admissions and fees

   The regents shall establish in the secondary institutions of the
   university, examinations in studies furnishing a suitable standard of
   graduation therefrom and of admission to colleges, and certificates or
   diplomas shall be conferred by the regents on students who
   satisfactorily pass such examinations.

   Any person shall be admitted to these examinations who shall conform to
   the rules and pay the fees prescribed by the regents.

   [blue.gif] 210. Registrations

   The regents may register domestic and foreign institutions in terms of
   New York standards, and fix the value of degrees, diplomas and
   certificates issued by institutions of other states or countries and
   presented for entrance to schools, colleges and the professions in this
   state.

   [blue.gif] 211. Supervision of professions

   1. Conformably to law the regents may supervise the entrance
   regulations to and the licensing and the practicing of the professions
   of medicine, physiotherapy, dentistry, dental hygiene, nursing,
   veterinary medicine, pharmacy, optometry, podiatry, engineering, land
   surveying, architecture, chiropractic, and landscape architecture, and
   also supervise the certification of ophthalmic dispensing, certified
   public accountants, short-hand reporters, psychologists, social
   workers, and the licensing, certification or enrollment of members of
   any other profession which may hereafter come under the supervision of
   the board of regents. Hearings by the regents under disciplinary
   proceedings pursuant to the provisions of this chapter relating to such
   professions may be given by or before not less than three members of
   the regents or by three persons, one of whom may be a member of the
   regents, in each case to be designated by the regents or by the
   chancellor of the university to hold such hearings, but any decision or
   determination in such proceedings shall be made by the regents.
   Hearings shall be upon the record before the grievance committee, or
   before the board of examiners of those professions wherein no grievance
   committee is specifically provided by law. The regents' committees
   conducting such hearings shall render a written report to the regents,
   including a statement as to the findings of fact and the evidence
   together with their recommendations, and the regents, without further
   hearing, shall in their discretion execute an order accepting or
   changing the determination of the grievance committee or board of
   examiners. The regents may in their discretion suspend the execution of
   a determination of censure and reprimand or suspension or revocation of
   the license of a practitioner and place such practitioner on probation
   subject to his compliance with conditions which the regents may
   determine. Members of the regents' committee shall be entitled to
   receive their necessary travel expenses together with compensation at
   the rate fixed by the regents not exceeding one hundred dollars per day
   for the necessary time spent in considering cases which come before
   them.

   2. The regents may by rule or order accept evidence of preliminary and
   professional education, and where practice is a preerquisite to
   licensure may receive evidence of such practice in whatever state or
   country the same may have been obtained or engaged in, for licensing a
   candidate to practice anu such profession in lieu of that prescribed by
   the laws relating to such profession; provided it shall appear to the
   satisfaction of the regents that such candidate has substantially met
   the requirements of such laws.

   3. And the regents shall have further power to indorse a license issued
   by a legally constituted board of examiners in any other state or
   country upon satisfactory evidence that the applicant has met any
   requirements in force in this state as to citizenship and residence and
   has completed, as of the date of such application, education and
   training which is substantially the equivalent of the requirements in
   force in this state when such license was issued, and that the
   applicant has been in the lawful and reputable practice of his
   profession for a period of no less than five years prior to his making
   application for such indorsement, or in the event that a lesser period
   of practice, or no practice, is required for indorsement of a license
   to practice such profession by the provisions of this chapter relating
   to the practice of the particular profession, such license may be
   indorsed upon submission of satisfactory evidence that the applicant
   has met the requirement of such other provision as to practice. When
   the evidence presented is not satisfying sufficient to warrant the
   indorsement of such license, the board of regents may require that the
   candidate for indorsement shall pass such subjects of the licensing
   examination specified by statute or regents rule as should be required
   of the candidate to establish his worthiness to receive such
   indorsement.

   4. And the regents shall have further power to indorse a certificate of
   rehabilitation of the United States veterans' bureau or administration,
   issued to any rehabilitated disabled veteran of the state of New York,
   as a license to practice any of the professions over which it now has
   supervision, or any other profession which may hereafter come under the
   supervision of the regents. Where the certificate of rehabilitation
   presented certifies that the disabled veteran has been rehabilitated in
   the professions of medicine, dentistry, veterinary medicine, pharmacy,
   or optometry, the board of regents may require that the rehabilitated
   disabled veteran shall pass such subjects of the licensing examination
   specified by statute or regents' rule as should be required of him to
   establish his worthiness to receive such indorsement.

   5. In the event that any person whose registration or license in any of
   the aforesaid professions is not legal or in the event any person who
   is not registered or licensed because of some error, misunderstanding,
   unintentional omission, or other cause which the regents may determine
   to be excusable, shall submit to the regents satisfactory proof that he
   possessed all the requirements prescribed by law at the time required
   for registration or license, or their equivalents, he may, by action of
   the regents, receive from the education department a license or a
   certificate of facts under a seal which may be registered by any county
   clerk and shall make valid the previous imperfect registration or shall
   remedy such failure to apply for or to receive such license, and such
   license or certificate shall include the date on which such person
   could or should have registeretd or could or should have applied for or
   received such license, and his registration or license, as the case may
   be, shall be deemed to have been valid and corrected from that date.

   6. The regents may appoint a committee of not less than three persons,
   any of whom may be a member of the regents, who shall review
   applications made pursuant to subdivisions two, three, four and five of
   this section. Such committee shall render a report to the regents after
   review of each such application. Members of the regents committee
   appointed pursuant to this subdivision who are not members of the board
   of regents shall be entitled to receive fifty dollars per day for each
   day actually spent in reviewing such applications and shall also be
   reimbursed for their necessary traveling expenses.

   7. Where high school graduation or the completion of a four-year high
   school course is a prerequisite under any provision of this chapter,
   the regents may accept an equivalency high school diploma in lieu
   thereof. The commissioner of education, with the approval of the
   regents, shall fix the fee or charge to be paid by students who are
   applicants for such examination.

   [blue_lin.gif]

   * Selected sections from the Education Law. Please refer to the Law for
   a more comprehensive understanding of the role of the New York State
   Board of Regents.

   You may access the full text of the Education Law by clicking here: New
   York State Senate
   [blue_lin.gif]

   *** Last update 04/23/96 ***
   [blue_lin.gif]
