http://txpc1.fnal.gov/tamucdf_cdf2phys.html

                              Home [top_2.gif]



                                    [shim.gif]


                                   CDF II
                                CDF Home Page

   Co-Spokespersons: A. Goshaw (Duke University), F. Bedeschi (INFN, Pisa,
                                   Italy)
              Co-Project Managers: C. Newman-Holmes, R. Kephart

   The detector (CDF II) is also being upgraded, whose detector channels
   are approximately 500,000 ! The CDF-II collaboration is a large
   international group of 525 physicists from 52 institutions in Canada,
   Germany, Korean, Italy, Japan, Russia, Spain, Switzerland, Taiwan, U.K.
   and the U.S.. The Texas A&M group is working on a fiber readout system
   of the SVX-II data acquisition (DAQ) system.

                                    [shim.gif]


                       Physics Program - Supersymmetry

   The Standard Model has been enormously successful in explaining a wide
   variety of physics. Its principles appears to be valid over a
   remarkable range, from cosmological phenomena in the very early
   universe, to all microscopic phenomena up to the electroweak energy of
   about 100 GeV. At present, aside from a few two or three standard
   deviation effects, the Standard Model is in agreement with all current
   experimental data.

   In spite of the success, there are a number of structural defects in
   the Standard Model, related mainly to the Higgs phenomenon. The
   Standard Model gives no explanation for the breaking of SU(2) x U(1).
   Further, the Higgs boson, being a spin zero particle, possesses a
   quadratic self mass divergence. It leads to large quantum corrections
   if one assumed the Standard Model held up from the electroweak scale to
   ultra-high energy scale (e.g., the GUT or Planck scales). This
   correction requires major fine tuning to specify parameters of the
   theory to 23 decimal places.

   Supersymmetry (SUSY) can protect the electroweak scale from the large
   corrections in the Higgs sector by treating Bose and Fermi degrees of
   freedom on equal footing. SUSY is likely the only symmetry that can
   solve this problem. Measurements of the gauge couplings at LEP show
   that the Standard Model, when extrapolated to very high energies, fails
   to provide such unification, whereas a supersymmetrized Standard Model
   with two Higgs doublets (MSSM) works very well. Further, when combined
   with supergravity grand unification, the Higgs mechanism can be derived
   since the breaking of supersymmetry at the GUT scale leads to
   electroweak breaking at the Z scale. Thus SUSY is needed to connect the
   Standard Model with an ultimate perturbative unification of the
   fundamental interactions.

   Therefore, a direct search for SUSY phenomema as well as the Higgs
   bosons at high energy particle accelerators is crucially important. The
   Texas A&M group is leading an effort of the SUSY searches at CDF.

                                 [shim.gif]


                          [bpnt.gif] Top [bpnt.gif]

                 Prepared by Teruki Kamon, December 7, 1999
                          Last Update April 7, 2000
