http://www.fe.doe.gov/coal_power/vision21/v21plan.pdf

   Federal Energy Technology Center Office of Fossil Energy * U.S.
   Department of Energy Vision 21 Program Plan Clean Energy Plants for the
   21st Century A Message to Our Stakeholders As the 20th century rapidly
   draws to a close, the power and fuels research and development commu-
   nity faces a major challenge: to protect the environment while
   producing a plentiful supply of clean low- cost energy that is
   essential to maintaining our economic prosperity. We know we will need
   to depend on fossil fuels for a major share of our electricity and
   transportation fuels needs well into the 21st century, especially
   globally. We also believe it makes good sense to rely not on any single
   energy resource, but rather on a diverse fuel mix that includes coal,
   gas, oil, nuclear, biomass and other renewables, and "opportunity"
   resources. The solution lies in developing substantially improved clean
   and low-cost technology. By taking the lead now and focusing our
   efforts, we can develop the technol- ogy to meet the energy and
   environmental challenges we face and ensure our continuing economic
   growth. This document is the draft Program Plan for "Vision 21 - Clean
   Energy Plants for the 21st Century." It describes what Vision 21 is,
   sets performance targets for Vision 21 plants, explains how Vision 21
   interfaces with and relates to our current power and fuels R&D program,
   and describes the Vision 21 program elements and activities. A
   preliminary Roadmap is provided at the end of the Plan. Much of what is
   in this Vision 21 Program Plan has come from you, our stakeholders,
   including what you shared with us at the Vision 21 Workshop held in
   Pittsburgh in December, 1998. Additional gov- ernment-industry
   roadmapping workshops are planned for the future that will focus on
   intermediate program steps and milestones. We need a program with
   aggressive but sensible objectives, that is balanced, but gives the
   appropriate emphasis to the various program elements and activities. We
   need to respond to key public needs , especially a clean environment,
   and also to market needs if industry is to build Vision 21 plants in
   the deregulated, cost-driven arena. Only with your involvement and
   support can we succeed. Achieving our goals will not be easy. A
   cooperative partnership of industry, academia, and government will have
   the best chance of succeeding. We welcome your comments and suggestions
   about the plan. Please respond directly to us or to the contacts listed
   on the back cover George Rudins Rita A. Bajura Deputy Assistant
   Secretary for Coal and Director, Federal Energy Technology Center Power
   Systems Table of Contents Executive Summary
   .......................................................................
   ............................................... 1 Introduction
   .......................................................................
   ...................................................... 1 What is a
   "21st Century Energy Plant"?
   .......................................................................
   ........... 2 Why "21st Century Energy
   Plants"?...............................................................
   ......................... 2 Who will be involved in the Program?
   .......................................................................
   ............. 3 When will development of "21st Century Energy Plants"
   begin?........................................... 3 How will the
   Program be
   developed?.............................................................
   ......................... 4 Vision 21 planning process (Roadmap)
   .......................................................................
   ............ 5 What is the end product of the Program in 2015?
   ................................................................... 5
   Vision 21 Clean Energy Plants for the 21st Century
   ..................................................................... 7
   Introduction - The Challenge
   .......................................................................
   ............................ 7 Vision 21
   .......................................................................
   ........................................................... 8
   Objectives/Performance Targets for Vision 21 Plants
   ............................................................. 8 Other
   Characteristics of Vision 21 Plants
   .......................................................................
   ......... 8 Rationale for a Vision 21 Program
   .......................................................................
   ................... 9
   Focus..................................................................
   ......................................................................
   10 Management Approach and Business Strategy
   .......................................................................
   10 Program
   Elements...............................................................
   ..................................................... 14 Status of
   Enabling and Supporting Technologies
   .................................................................... 15
   Activities and Milestones
   .......................................................................
   ................................. 16 Appendix
   .......................................................................
   ................................................................ 29
   Executive Summary Introduction The Department of Energy's Office of
   Fossil Energy The second is "efficiency maximization." The plants has
   developed a Vision 21 program - a new approach would be designed to use
   as much of the energy in the fuel to producing energy that addresses
   pollution control as possible. This would be done by combining advanced
   as an integral part of high-efficiency energy production - technology
   modules in new and different ways to meet or a "21st Century Energy
   Plant." It builds on advanced the needs of a specific site. For
   example, a 21st Century technologies growing out of ongoing research
   and develop- Energy Plant could provide electric power, as well ment
   programs sponsored by DOE to integrate energy as industrial steam or
   heat, to an industrial complex. production and pollution control into a
   new type of facility A different configuration of modules could produce
   both that could perform a variety of functions. high-value chemicals
   and fuel gases for manufacturing Today, a typical power plant uses one
   type of fuel - plants nearby. Another configuration might be a combina-
   usually coal - and produces only one thing - electricity. tion power
   plant/coal refinery, producing both electricity A 21st Century Energy
   Plant would be fuel-flexible, mean- and transportation-grade liquids
   fuels. ing it could use one or more of several different feedstocks A
   number of key core technologies are essential - for example, coal,
   natural gas, or petroleum coke. Any to the realization of the Vision 21
   concept. Clean Coal of these could be mixed with biomass. In turn, the
   plant Technology projects have used coal gasification to produce could
   produce one or more of a number of high-value a gas for combustion
   turbines and have advanced processes products such as electric power,
   clean fuels, chemicals, for converting gas derived from coal into
   liquid fuels. These or hydrogen. Secondary products such as heat/steam
   technologies will be integrated in the future with further for
   industrial use could also be produced. advances in other key
   technologies. The 21st Century Energy Plant concept has two unique
   Vision 21 represents an exciting new direction in using features. The
   first unique feature of the 21st Century fossil fuels and other
   feedstocks efficiently, cleanly, and Energy Plant is its emphasis on
   eliminating environmental affordably to produce energy products for the
   next century. issues associated with the utilization of fossil fuels.
   Emis- The concept has been endorsed by the President's Commit- sions of
   air pollutants such as sulfur dioxide, nitrogen tee of Advisors on
   Science and Technology (". . . it is an oxides, and mercury would be
   reduced to essentially zero appropriate target for DOE . . . ") and
   supports the President's levels. Emissions of carbon dioxide, a
   greenhouse gas, Climate Change Technology Initiative to reduce the
   emis- would be dramatically reduced because of the higher sions of
   greenhouse gases. It also supports the National efficiency. The plant
   design would also include the option Mining Association's vision -
   Technology Roadmap for capturing and sequestering carbon dioxide. Thus,
   for the Mining Industry. the plant could produce zero emissions -
   essentially decoupling the use of carbon-based fuels from the produc-
   tion of greenhouse gases. 1 What is a "21st Century Energy Plant"?
   Existing technologies are being developed, more or less in the short
   and intermediate term, i.e., spinoff technologies. independently, under
   the Coal and Advanced Power R&D While some of these technologies may be
   introduced into Program. Any one of these technologies cannot
   individually the market as individual facilities, the ultimate, high-
   achieve the efficiency, environmental, and cost goals that efficiency,
   most economical, and cleanest energy complex will be needed in the
   early decades of the 21st century. in the future will likely be a
   combination of these advanced It is time for a new approach that allows
   us to integrate technologies integrated into a variety of
   configurations. different power and fuels technologies into systems
   that do achieve the needed level of performance at costs we can afford.
   The current Coal and Advanced Power R&D Program CONCEPT FOR THE (IGCC,
   PFB, HIPPS, ATS, Fuel Cells) is the source of base "21st CENTURY ENERGY
   technology for 21st Century Energy Plants. Portions of these programs
   that contribute to Vision 21 goals will be included. PLANT" The
   portions that are not included in Vision 21 will be con- tinued
   separately to develop near-term products. This base technology is
   critically important to achieving intermediate * A future energy
   facility that would have milestones and the overall goals of the Vision
   21 program. virtually no environmental impact. A 21st Century Energy
   Plant is not a single configuration * Conventional pollutants would be
   cap- - instead it will be a group of plants with different configura-
   tured and either disposed of or converted tions that would be tailored
   to meet specific market needs. to marketable co-products. One plant
   might serve as the hub of an industrial com- * There would be no solid
   or liquid plex, providing electric power, steam, and heat. While
   discharges. another plant might co-produce high-value chemicals or fuel
   gases for neighboring manufacturing facilities. * Emissions of carbon
   dioxide and other Or it mightbe a power plant-coal refinery
   combination, greenhouse gases would be reduced producing electricity
   and transportation-grade liquid fuels. by ultra-high efficiency
   technologies. Using some combination of power, fuels, chemicals, *
   Carbon emissions could be captured and process heat, 21st Century
   Energy Plants will integrate at the plant or offset by carbon removal
   advanced concepts for high-efficiency power generation processes
   applied elsewhere. and pollution control into a new class of
   fuel-flexible * Plant options for zero carbon dioxide facilities with
   virtually no emissions of air pollutants. It will be capable of a
   variety of configurations that can emissions would be available by
   2015. meet differing market needs, including both distributed * The
   captured carbon would be seques- and central power generation. tered or
   potentially recycled into useful In the past, many of these R&D efforts
   were carried out products. independently, each progressing toward a
   standalone facility. With 21st Century Energy Plants benefits will be
   realized Why "21st Century Energy Plants"? The 21st Century Energy
   Plant represents the most effec- our activities now and taking the lead
   on developing the tive way to keep fossil fuels, including coal, in the
   world's needed technology, we will not only meet the energy and energy
   future. environmental challenges we face but, at the same time, The
   U.S. will need to rely on fossil make our economy stronger. fuels for
   the major share of its electricity and transportation fuels well into
   the Fossil "21st Century Electricity 21st century. We cannot endanger
   our economic future by depending on any Fuels ZERO EMISSIONS Fuels
   single fossil energy source. By focusing Energy Plants" Chemicals 2 Who
   will be involved in the Program? The Vision 21 program would be
   industry-driven and cost- privately fund first-of-a-kind commercial
   facilities that shared with DOE, academia, national laboratories, and
   other coproduce multiple products using some combination government
   organizations. Ultimately, the research would of power, fuels,
   chemicals, and process heat. When will development of "21st Century
   Energy Plants" begin? * 1999 - Systems analysis activities will begin
   that will define the high- performance systems and key compo- GOALS FOR
   THE nents that will be used "21st CENTURY ENERGY PLANT" in 21st Century
   Energy Plants. * 2000 - Development of enabling and Power: Generating
   efficiencies greater than 60% using coal supporting technologies will
   com- and greater than 75% using natural gas. [Current coal tech- mence.
   nology is 33-35% efficiency; current natural gas turbine * 2002 -
   Systems integration issues technology is 45-55% efficient.] Costs of
   electricity competi- dealing with the dynamic response tive with market
   clearing prices at the time of deployment. and control of the 21st
   Century Energy Plant will be addressed. Combined Heat/Power: Overall
   thermal efficiencies * 2005 - First spinoff technologies of 85-90%.
   introduced. Environmental: Near zero emissions of traditional
   pollutants, * 2008 - Industrial ecology analysis including smog- and
   acid rain-forming pollutants. will be completed. Greenhouse Gas
   Reduction: Carbon dioxide emissions * 2010 - Virtual demonstrations
   reduced by 40-50% by efficiency improvements; reduced of components and
   subsystems to zero [net] if coupled with carbon sequestration. will be
   conducted. Coproducts: Clean, affordable transportation-quality fuels *
   2012 - Development of most at costs equivalent to $20 per barrel or
   less (1998 $); also, enabling and supporting technologies
   industrial-grade heat/steam and potential for fuel-grade gas will be
   completed. production. * 2015 - Complete virtual demonstra- tion of a
   21st Century Energy Plant. How will the Program be developed? Many of
   the initial building blocks for 21st Century provide progressively
   cleaner and more efficient energy Energy Plants are emerging from DOE's
   advanced technol- production. As the program evolves in coming years,
   this ogy programs. Projects in the Clean Coal Technology roadmap will
   guide development efforts in: Program have pioneered the use of coal
   gasification and Gas-separation technologies: Low-cost oxygen separa-
   pressurized fluidized bed combustion to produce a gas tion is one of
   the keys to realizing a non-polluting energy for combustion turbines
   and advanced processes for con- facility capable of producing electric
   power as well as other verting coal-derived gas into liquid fuels. New
   types high value products. Today, the process of extracting oxygen of
   fuel cells and a revolutionary high-efficiency gas turbine is both
   expensive and energy intensive, requiring huge are being developed in
   the DOE R&D Program. refrigeration units capable of cooling air to
   about The Vision 21 program provides a roadmap for integra- 275 degrees
   below zero Fahrenheit - the temperature tion and further advancement of
   these technologies to at which air becomes a liquid and oxygen can be
   separated. 3 KEY TECHNOLOGIES FOR DEVELOPING "21st CENTURY ENERGY
   PLANTS" Materials: Higher-strength, corrosion-resistant, and more
   durable materials will be needed for the 21st Century Energy Plants.
   Improved ceramics also will be necessary for the high- temperature
   membranes needed for gas separation. Catalysts and Sorbents: R&D will
   be necessary to further improve the effectiveness of catalysts that can
   lower the costs of coal conversion and sorbents that can remove
   pollutants from hot gas streams exiting a coal gasifier or combustor.
   Instrumentation: To attain peak efficiency, future 21st Century Energy
   Plant operators will have to fine-tune plant operations to accommodate
   variations in fuel feedstocks and other variable conditions in plant
   operations. The use of artificial intelligence and new sensor
   technology to control plant operations will be a key R&D effort.
   "Virtual" Plants: To minimize the cost of progressively larger test
   facilities, 21st Century Energy Plants will rely on new computer
   simulation technologies to test processes and verify engineering
   performance. R&D will be needed to develop advanced computational
   techniques similar to those used today to design commercial airplanes
   or to simulate nuclear explosions. Carbon Sequestration: If the 21st
   Century Energy Plant concept can be coupled with low-cost carbon
   sequestration (the capturing and permanent storage of carbon dioxide
   and other green- house gases), the result would be a future energy
   facility with virtually no environmental impact outside of its
   "footprint." Fuel-Flexible Gasification: Coal gasification is an ideal
   High-Performance Combustion: One configuration core technology for 21st
   Century Energy Plants because of 21st Century Energy Plants might rely
   on combustion it produces a gas stream that can be combusted for
   electric rather than gasification. In this design, future research
   power, used as a source of hydrogen for a fuel cell and development
   will concentrate on advanced technologies or chemical process, or
   processed as a fuel gas for industrial such as pressurized fluidized
   bed combustion and high- plants. In order to maximize the fuel
   flexibility of future temperature heat exchangers. plants, research and
   development will focus on the best Improvements will be needed in
   materials, catalysts, ways to gasify fuel mixtures such as coal and
   biomass and instrumentation to make 21st Century Energy Plants or
   fuel-rich wastes. a reality, and advanced computation techniques will
   be Fuel Cell/Turbine Hybrids: Both fuel cells and turbines necessary to
   allow for computer simulations for design have great promise as power
   generating devices; however, and testing. Finally, to achieve the goal
   of an energy facility combining the two may result in even greater
   efficiencies with virtually no environmental impact, ways must be found
   and economic benefits. Research on 21st Century Energy to incorporate
   carbon sequestration (the storage of carbon Plants will focus on
   integrating these technologies and dioxide and other greenhouse gases)
   into the 21st Century adapting them to operate on a variety of
   feedstocks. Energy Plant concept. 4 Vision 21 planning process
   (Roadmap) An analytical hierarchical process using pair-wise comparison
   techniques was used VISION 21 in developing the Vision 21 Roadmap.
   PROGRAM ELEMENTS Information on existing programs and plans was
   provided by government personnel. Information on industry needs and
   trends Systems Analysis will be used to develop various system was
   ob-tained through a series of continu- configurations that satisfy the
   program objectives, define ing contacts with industry representatives
   the performance targets for individual subsystems, and and through the
   Vision 21 Workshop. identify supporting technology needs. An analysis
   was conducted on the effects of the primary energy industry drivers -
   Enabling Technologies, like gasification and advanced deregulation,
   power industry restructuring, and the environment, including concerns
   combustion, form the building blocks of 21st Century about global
   climate change - and on the Energy Plants. roles and impacts of R&D. An
   extensive list of technologies, program elements, Supporting
   Technologies are cross-cutting technologies subelements, and activities
   was developed that are necessary for multiple subsystems and components
   and value judgments were made on pair- and are important for other
   applications. wise comparisons of these items. The items were ranked,
   taking into account existing Systems Integration in 21st Century Energy
   Plants will levels of R&D effort, degree of maturity use "smart"
   systems integration techniques to combine of technology, importance to
   achieving high-performance subsystems into very clean and efficient
   Vision 21 goals, and other factors. The Roadmap that resulted (see the
   Appendix) low-cost plants. is a distillation of the planning process
   into a coordinated plan that is structured Designs will be produced for
   components and subsystems, to provide long-range (~15 years) end
   prototype plants and commercial plants, and a virtual dem- point
   objectives and short-medium term onstration capability will be
   developed. (~5-8 years) spinoff benefits. What is the end product of
   the program in 2015? At the end of the program in 2015, the American
   tax- payers will see tangible results: WHAT'S DIFFERENT ABOUT A *
   Technology basis for ultraclean and efficient low-cost "21ST CENTURY
   ENERGY energy plants. PLANT"? * Improved design and simulation tools
   that will lower the costs of developing new energy and environmental,
   and other, technologies. * Focuses on flexible components or sub- *
   Spinoff technologies, available beginning around systems rather than on
   complete plants. 2005, that include low-cost oxygen and hydrogen *
   Integrates multiple technologies. separation technology, improved
   low-cost manufactur- * Achieves leapfrog improvements in perfor- ing
   techniques for high-tech components, and better catalysts for producing
   fuels from low-valued raw mance and cost. materials. * Emphasizes
   market flexibility, multiple feed- stocks and products, and industrial
   ecology. 5 6 Vision 21 Clean Energy Plants for the 21st Century
   Introduction - The Challenge The U.S. electric power industry is
   currently undergoing Perhaps the biggest change will be driven by
   concern a period of unprecedented change driven largely by electric
   over global climate change. Emissions of greenhouse gases, utility
   restructuring, the availability of relatively low-cost especially CO
   from fossil fuel use, may need to be reduced 2 natural gas,
   environmental regulation, and concerns about in the future. Although a
   portion of this reduction may be global climate change. achieved
   through emissions trading and credits for investing As the power
   industry deregulates, utilities which were in emissions reduction
   projects in developing countries, heretofore protected against
   competition and guaranteed it is likely that substantial reductions in
   carbon emissions returns on their investments are now being forced to
   com- will be necessary. Increasing the efficiency of power gener- pete
   for market share and profits. Deregulation is changing ation is a step
   in the right direction, but a technological the way the industry
   operates and invests in new facilities solution that would provide
   sufficient reductions in carbon and technology. In a market-driven
   environment, power emissions has yet to be identified. plant owners
   must be concerned about profitability and The implications of these
   drivers for the future economic ability to finance new investments.
   This may cause owners competitiveness and prosperity of the U.S. cannot
   be under- to avoid technical risk and favor low capital cost alterna-
   estimated. Our economic future depends on a supply of tives, especially
   when such alternatives are coupled with affordable electricity to run
   our factories and heat and light a fuel supply contract for a period
   long enough for the invest- our offices and homes and on clean fuels
   for transportation. ment to be recovered. Predictions have been made
   about the devastating effects that Today's low cost of natural gas is
   causing power produc- limits on carbon emissions will have on our
   economy. How- ers to favor low capital cost turbines over relatively
   high- ever, predictions often underestimate the impacts of techno- cost
   coal-fired boilers for new capacity. The Energy logical innovation.
   Indeed technology innovationis the best, Information Administration
   projects that in the U.S. about and perhaps the only way, to address
   the coming challenges 129 gigawatts (GW) of new, fossil-fuel baseload
   capacity to our electric power and fuel supply infrastructure. will be
   needed in the next twenty years; it is estimated that The bottom line
   is that the U.S. will need to rely on fossil 81 GW will be natural gas
   and only 28 GW will be coal fuels for the major share of its
   electricity and transportation (with the remaining 20 GW renewable).
   fuels well into the 21st century. We cannot endanger our The Clean Air
   Act of 1970 and subsequent amendments economic future by depending on
   any single fossil energy have brought about major reductions in
   emissions of the acid source. Although the current situation favors
   natural gas, gases, i.e. sulfur and nitrogen oxides, and particulate
   for new for the long-term the wisest policy is to depend on a
   coal-fired power plants. Other plants are increasingly being balanced
   mixture of energy sources, including gas, coal , required to cut
   emissions. Moreover, renewed concern about biomass, opportunity fuels,
   "wastes," and oil. Without new fine particulate and its precursors
   (nitrogen and sulfur oxides), and radically better technology, the
   costs of energy will trace element emissions (especially mercury), and
   ozone increase substantially and the predictions of "devastation" (and
   its nitrogen oxides precursor) have created new pres- may turn out to
   be correct. On the other hand, by focusing sures for cleaner plants.
   These pressures are unlikely to ease our activities now and taking the
   lead on developing the in the future; rather, each new generation of
   power plants needed technology, we will not only meet the energy and
   will be expected to be cleaner than the last. environmental challenges
   we face, but at the same time make our economy stronger. 7 Vision 21
   Objectives/Performance Targets for Vision 21 Plants The current DOE
   Fossil Energy R&D Program is address- ing the development of 1)
   cost-effective power systems, based on both coal and natural gas
   individually and in com- The primary objective of the Vision 21 program
   is to effec- bination, that are substantially cleaner and more
   efficient tively remove all environmental concerns associated with than
   systems in use today, and 2) technology for producing the use of fossil
   fuels for producing electricity, liquid alterna-tive sources of liquid
   transportation fuels that are transportation fuels, and high-value
   chemicals. The specific cost-competitive with equivalent petroleum
   products. Differ- performance targets, costs, and timing for Vision 21
   plants ent kinds of power systems are being developed more or less are
   shown in the table on the following page. independently, each based on
   a different technology: ad- vanced pulverized coal combustion,
   gasification combined cycle, pressurized fluidized bed combustion,
   indirectly fired cycles, advanced turbine systems, and fuel cells.
   Activities Other Characteristics in fuels technology include indirect
   and direct liquefaction, coprocessing coal with opportunity and "waste"
   materials of Vision 21 Plants to make liquid fuels, and natural gas to
   liquids processing. Each technology development effort has its own set
   of objec- tives and time schedules for development and deployment. *
   Must involve a conversion of energy such as coal To achieve radical
   improvements in the performance or natural gas to high-value products
   such as electricity of fossil fuel-based power systems and to virtually
   eliminate or liquid transportation fuels. Steam or heat may be
   environmental issues as a barrier to fossil fuel use will secondary
   products. Conventional petroleum refineries require a new paradigm for
   the development of both tech- are excluded, as are coal slurry
   preparation plants. nology and systems that incorporate the technology.
   Any * Will likely be large stand-alone energy facilities, gener- of the
   technologies under development cannot individually ally larger than 30
   MWe or with equivalent energy output achieve the efficiency,
   environmental, and cost goals that if other products such as liquid
   fuels are produced (not will be needed in the early decades of the 21st
   century. including thermal credit for steam or waste heat.) Rather, we
   need a new approach that allows us to integrate * May be central
   station facilities or be located at or near power and fuel system
   "modules" into systems that achieve the consumer's site (e.g., a large
   industrial consumer.) the needed level performance at costs we can
   afford. The key Small distributed power generation or fuel production
   difference between Vision 21 and our current R&D portfolio is not
   considered to be part of Vision 21, although is that Vision 21 focuses
   on systems that integrate multiple near-term spin-off applications for
   distributed power technologies in order to achieve "leapfrog"
   improvements may occur. in performance and cost. Other differences are
   Vision 21's * Will use fossil fuel based feedstocks, either alone or in
   emphasis on market flexibility, multiple feedstocks and combination
   with biomass and/or opportunity feedstocks products, and industrial
   ecology. such as petroleum coke, RDF, MSW, and sewage sludge. Vision 21
   is a government-industry-academia collabora- Biomass-only plants are
   excluded. tion to develop technology that will effectively remove all *
   Will emphasize market flexibility, including multiple environmental
   concerns associated with the use of fossil feedstocks and products.
   fuels for producing electricity and liquid transportation fuels. The
   approach is to develop and integrate high- * Will be composed of two or
   more modules combined performance technology modules to create energy
   plants with "smart" systems integration techniques. that are
   sufficiently powerful to meet our energy needs * That capture and
   concentrate CO for sequestration 2 in the 21st century, and yet
   flexible enough to address site- purposes may include a theoretical
   credit for the enthalpy specific market applications. Vision 21 builds
   on a portfolio of the pressurized CO "product" in the efficiency 2 of
   technologies already being developed, including clean calculation. coal
   combustion and gasification, turbines, fuel cells, and fuels synthesis,
   and adds other critical technologies and system integration techniques.
   Vision 21 is the Department of Energy's role in helping to maintain our
   nation's eco- nomic prosperity by ensuring a future supply of
   affordable, clean energy. 8 Efficiency-Electricity Generation 60% for
   coal-based systems (based on fuel HHV); 75% for natural gas-based
   systems (LHV) with no credit for cogenerated steam* Efficiency-Combined
   Electricity/Heat overall thermal efficiency above 85%; also meets above
   efficiency goals for electricity* Efficiency-Fuels Only Plant when
   producing fuels such as H or liquid transportation 2 fuels alone from
   coal, 75% fuels utilization efficiency (LHV)* Environmental near zero
   emissions of sulfur and nitrogen oxides, particulate matter, trace
   elements, and organic com- pounds; 40-50% reduction in CO emissions by
   effi- 2 ciency improvement; 100% reduction with sequestration Costs
   aggressive targets for capital and operating costs and RAM; products of
   Vision 21 plants must be cost- competitive with market clearing prices
   when they are commercially deployed Timing major benefits, e.g.
   improved gasifiers and combustors, gas separation membranes, begin by
   2006 or earlier; designs for most Vision 21 subsystems and modules
   available by 2012; Vision 21 commercial plant designs available by 2015
   * The efficiency goal for a plant cofeeding coal and natural gas will
   be calculated on a pro-rata basis. Likewise, the efficiency goal for a
   plant producing both electricity and fuels will be calcu- lated on a
   pro-rata basis. Rationale for a Vision 21 thermal efficiency
   improvements. Net carbon dioxide Program emissions can be reduced to
   zero through sequestration. * Keeps energy costs affordable. Without
   the technological innovations brought about by a Vision 21 program, use
   An aggressive Government/industry cost-shared Vision 21 of low-cost
   fossil fuels is likely to be severely curtailed program is needed
   because Vision 21: by environmental pressures, particularly global
   climate * Removes environmental barriers to fossil fuel use. change
   concerns. This will leave the U.S. with a substan- Environmental
   barriers including smog- and acid-rain- tially narrowed range of much
   higher cost energy options, forming pollutants, and particulate and
   hazardous air which may limit the potential for achieving sustained
   pollutants, are effectively removed. Solid waste is elimi- economic
   growth and prosperity. nated by its conversion to useful products.
   Concerns * Produces useful coproducts including liquid transpor- over
   global climate change are mitigated by reductions tation fuels. Vision
   21 can produce environmentally in carbon dioxide emissions of up to 50%
   resulting from superior liquid transportation fuels that are cost- 9
   competitive with equivalent petroleum products. This develop the
   systems integration know-how that will be need- capability would reduce
   our reliance on imported oil. ed to design Vision 21 plants. Lessened
   oil imports and stabilized oil prices resulting Systems integration
   addresses the issues of systems from the availability of alternative
   sources of transporta- engineering, dynamic response and control, and
   industrial tion fuels will also improve our international balance
   ecology. Systems engineering concerns the configuration of trade. of
   Vision 21 plants, the design of components and sub- * Continues U.S.
   leadership role in clean energy technol- systems, and subsystem
   interconnections. Good systems ogy. By a recently published account,
   world trade in engineering ensures that components and subsystems
   environmental controls has surpassed trade in armaments. are compatible
   with one another, that the design of the plant Vision 21 will advance
   the U.S. technological expertise is as simple as practicable, and that
   plant capital and that will promote the export of fossil energy
   technology, operating costs are as low as possible. High thermal effi-
   equipment, and services. U.S. fossil energy/environmental ciency
   requires "tight" integration of subsystems in order industries will
   expand, new industries will be created, to achieve maximum heat
   recovery, maximum utilization and there will be local, regional, and
   national benefits. of feedstocks, and minimum production of
   disposables. * Provides the most certain route to achieving our energy,
   However, tight integration leads to complex interdependen-
   environmental, and economic objectives. None of the cies among the
   various subsystems, leading to serious power and fuel subsystems
   currently being developed startup, control, and reliability issues.
   New, advanced in the Fossil Energy R&D Program can individually meet
   control strategies, and improved control software and the energy,
   environmental, and economic challenges hardware, will need to be
   developed. Vision 21 also offers of the future. Although each of these
   subsystems will opportunities for industrial ecology, i.e., utilizing
   output be a substantial improvement on today's technology, streams that
   would otherwise be handled as waste as input the rapidly changing
   domestic and international situation streams for additional processing
   or recycle. Ideally, the (i.e., climate change, oil security,
   environmental regula- application of industrial ecology principles
   would eliminate tion, electric utility restructuring, aging U.S. energy
   infra- all waste products. structure, global trade competition and
   privatization, Advanced manufacturing technology will be another focus
   and declining R&D budgets) requires that more be done. of the Vision 21
   program. Low-cost subsystem modules, Vision 21 combines electricity and
   fuel producing sub- e.g., fuel cells, gasifiers, gas separators and
   purifiers, will systems in a way that seeks to maximize thermal effi-
   require advanced, new manufacturing techniques. Also, ad- ciency,
   minimize emissions of traditional pollutants, vances in modular
   construction will be required to increase minimizes cost, and yet is
   readily compatible with carbon the use of shop-fabricated components
   and minimize the dioxide sequestration. amount of expensive field
   fabrication. Vision 21 will need substantially improved design and
   simulation tools, including development of a virtual demon- stration
   capability. These tools will be used to aid in the Focus design of
   individual components and subsystems, to evaluate and compare the
   performance of different configurations of Vision 21 systems, and to
   simulate the performance Because no one knows exactly what future
   energy plants of plant sections and complete Vision 21 plants.
   Availability will look like, the focus of the Vision 21 program is on
   devel- of advanced simulation software will reduce the cost oping
   flexible components and subsystems that are the build- of developing
   Vision 21 systems. Development of this ing blocks of future Vision 21
   plants rather than on the com- capability will be a key part of the
   Vision 21 program. plete plants themselves. Engineers will select these
   compo- nents and subsystems to design and build the energy plants of
   the 21st century. The feedstocks, products, configuration,
   environmental controls, and plant size will be site specific and
   determined by prevailing market and economic condi- Management Approach
   and tions. Modular design will be emphasized where practicable Business
   Strategy in order to offer plant designers maximum flexibility while
   minimizing design and plant fabrication costs. There are a number of
   issues unique to Vision 21 that are Vision 21 is a long-range,
   cost-shared, industry driven being addressed only minimally or not at
   all in the current R&D program designed to produce public benefits from
   power and fuels R&D program. These issues deal primarily the present to
   the time frame 2005-2015 and beyond. Plan- with systems integration.
   Accordingly, several complete ning is a cooperative effort of the
   DOE-Office of Fossil Vision 21 systems that are judged to be good
   candidates Energy (FE) and the Federal Energy Technology Center for
   21st century energy plants will be studied in order to (FETC) with
   input from other DOE organizations, national laboratories,
   universities, and private industry. 10 Implementation forces, will be
   left to private industry. DOE's role will To implement Vision 21,
   partnerships and linkages will be to facilitate the transfer of the
   Vision 21 data base be created with industry, universities, private and
   public to industry. R&D laboratories, and federal and state agencies.
   FETC will issue a series of competitive solicitations, create con-
   sortia, and develop CRADAs and other agreements. Systems Program
   Transition Analysis (Program Element I) will help to set realistic
   goals There will be a transition period during which the current and
   R&D targets and will be initiated promptly. It is impor- power systems
   and fuels program is restructured into a pro- tant that stakeholders
   "buy in" early to the program con- gram that includes Vision 21.
   Activities in our current pro- cepts, R&D targets, approach, and
   schedule. Existing teams grams that are relevant to Vision 21 and
   necessary to meet already developing some of the Vision 21 subsystems,
   e.g., Vision 21 goals will be rolled into the Vision 21 program. fuel
   cells, gasification, combustion, etc., would be supple- Other current
   activities would continue separately or, mented if necessary. A board
   consisting of high-level repre- in a few cases, be phased out. The
   Transition Plan (table) sentatives from key stakeholders, including
   FETC, would shows which activities would become part of Vision 21
   provide overall program guidance and coordination. and which would
   continue separately. For example, in the advanced pulverized coal
   program, development of advanced bottoming cycles and systems studies
   for high- Products of the Vision 21 Program efficiency bottoming cycles
   would become part of Vision The products of the Vision 21 program will
   be the tech- 21; the Low Emission Boiler Systems (LEBS) program nology
   basis for Vision 21 energy plants, improved design would continue
   separately until its conclusion in FY2000. and simulation tools, and
   "spin-off" technologies that would The advanced environmental control
   technology portion have various applications. of the environmental
   technology program would become * Technology basis for Vision 21
   plants. The primary part of Vision 21; the portion that concerns
   control tech- product would be designs for modular components and
   nology for the existing fleet would continue separately from
   subsystems. To develop the know-how required to design Vision 21. Fuel
   cell development for long-term 70-80% and build complete plants,
   including knowledge of efficient systems would become part of Vision
   21, as would systems integration techniques, several designs for the
   development of advanced fuel cell-turbine "hybrid" prototype plants
   (small commercial plants used by systems. industry to establish
   technical and economic viability) A rationale has been developed to
   determine which pro- and for large commercial plants will also be
   produced. gram activities become part of Vision 21. In general, activi-
   * Improved design and simulation tools. Software and ties that address
   longer-term technology development that design tools, including the
   virtual demonstration com- leads to step-change or "breakthrough"
   advancements would puter simulation developed for Vision 21, will be
   avail- become part of Vision 21. Current program activities that able
   for application to the design of other energy and are shorter-term and
   result in incremental improvements environmental systems. would
   continue separately. The program transition is plan- ned to begin in
   FY99 and be completed within 2-3 years. * Spin-off technologies. These
   include low-cost oxygen and hydrogen separation technology, gas
   purification and cleaning technology, better catalysts for producing
   Program Management fuels and chemicals from low-valued raw materials,
   more FETC product managers would continue to have overall efficient
   lower cost environmental control technology, responsibility for
   elements of their programs that lie both improved low-cost
   manufacturing techniques for high- within and outside of the Vision 21
   program. Product technology components, and improved materials for
   managers and the Vision 21 coordinating team will work service under
   aggressive high-temperature conditions. together to determine if
   program objectives, activities, and schedules need to be adjusted in
   order to be consistent with Vision 21 objectives. The Vision 21 team
   and product Program Activities managers will ensure that all Vision 21
   program activities The Vision 21 program includes the development of
   sub- (including planning, procurements, schedules, budgets, systems,
   components, and design tools, and the concomitant modeling, analysis,
   and experimental work. The scale of the latter activities will range
   from laboratory-, bench-, and pilot- scale, up to and including scales
   needed to obtain data for demonstrating feasibility for prototype- and
   commercial- scale plants. However, construction of Vision 21 prototype
   and commercial-scale plants is not part of the Vision 21 program. These
   activities, the exact timing of which will depend on prevailing
   economic conditions and market 11 V21 Transition Plan Existing Program
   Activities Rolled Into Vision 21 Activities that Continue Separately
   Advanced Pulverized Coal - advanced bottoming cycles - LEBS (ends FY00)
   - systems studies Indirectly Fired Cycles - pyrolyzer development -
   complete HIPPS development - high-temp. furnace/heat exchanger dev. -
   repowering - ultra-high efficiency systems/plant design - use of O
   -enriched air 2 - systems that use O and CO recycle - ash slagging
   studies 2 2 - system integration issues Integrated Gasification - gas
   stream purification - desulfurization sorbents Combined Cycle - gas
   separation (O -air, H -syngas, CO ) - Power Systems Dev. Facility
   (PSDF) 2 2 2 - advanced gasifiers activities - fuel flexible
   gasification - IGCC systems analysis and modeling - early entrance
   co-production plant Pressurized Fluidized - CO recycle - feed and ash
   handling cost reduction 2 Bed Combustion - carbonizer development -
   repowering - hot particulate removal - specific gas turbine development
   and - combustion with O adaptation of existing turbines 2 - advanced
   sorbent development - hot particulate filter reliability and -
   ultra-high efficiency PFBC adaptation to other markets - isothermal
   compressor development - PSDF activities - PFBC systems analysis and
   modeling Power Systems Advanced - materials development (high-temp.
   heat - carbon reaction modeling Research exchangers, refractories,
   advanced - biomass co-firing ceramic composites, advanced alloys, - Hg
   capture mechanisms hydrogen membrane) - biological NOx filters -
   virtual demonstration - biological production of fuels - advanced
   instrumentation and controls - carbon-based sorbents - mineral
   sequestration - biological sequestration - austenitic alloys -
   SBIR/STTR programs - UCR/HBCU programs 12 V21 Transition Plan Existing
   Program Activities Rolled Into Vision 21 Activities that Continue
   Separately Environmental Control - advanced low-NOx combustion - PM
   monitoring & characterization 2.5 Technology - advanced fine
   particulate controls - PM control technology development for 2.5 -
   management of coal combustion byproducts existing plants (CCBs) from
   advanced power systems - enhancing fine particulate control of exist- -
   revolutionary CO capture and separation ing equipment 2 systems - high
   value/high volume uses of CCBs from - integration of energy systems
   with terrestrial existing plants sinks - Hg transport & deposition -
   modeling of advanced fuel cycles - evolutionary advances in CO capture
   and 2 separation - geological sequestration - ocean fertilization -
   indirect ocean sequestration - advanced CO utilization 2 - CO
   sequestration failure modes and 2 performance models Coal Preparation -
   opportunity feedstocks characterization - coal preparation (Solid Fuels
   and Feedstocks) and recovery Direct Liquefaction none - two-stage
   liquefaction - co-processing research - systems analysis and modeling
   Indirect Liquefaction - synthesis gas-based products - proof-of-concept
   testing - computational science, virtual reality - advanced diesel
   fuels - advanced (3-phase) reactor design - systems analysis and
   modeling - early entrance co-production Fuels Advanced Research -
   hydrogen production - advanced diesel fuels - hydrogen storage -
   catalyst development Turbines and Engines - High Efficiency Engines and
   Turbines (HEET) - distributed generation/fuel cell turbine (advanced
   turbines, H and ceramic turbines, hybrids (designs for near term 60% 2
   fuel flexible turbines; integration testing) efficient systems) - fuel
   cell/turbine hybrids (turbine and engine - advanced reciprocating
   engine systems development for long-term 70-80% efficient - advanced
   turbine systems (technology systems) base R&D, utility scale ATS
   product dev.) - flexible gas turbine systems Fuel Cells - fuel
   cell/turbine hybrids (fuel cell development - distributed generation,
   molten carbonate for long-term 70-80% efficient systems) fuel cells -
   21st century fuel cells (ultra fuel cells) - fuel cell/turbine hybrids
   - cascaded fuel cell systems (multiple - fuel cells advanced research
   (developer temperatures, pressures) support) - low-cost manufacturing -
   distributed generation interconnects 13 communications, etc.) are
   conducted in a consistent and coordinated manner. Program Elements The
   Vision 21 program elements and sub-elements are summarized below. The
   status of the enabling and supporting technologies are then described,
   followed by detailed Program Elements Program Subelements I. Systems
   Analysis Systems analysis is a critical part of the Vision 21 program
   and serves a. Market Analysis as the "brain" or guiding force for all
   activities. The key role of systems b. Process Definition analysis is
   to develop Vision 21 system configurations that satisfy the c. Process
   Evaluation program objectives, to define the performance targets for
   individual sub- d. Subsystem Performance Requirements systems, and
   identify supporting technology needs. e. Economic Analysis f. Subsystem
   Data Analysis and Model Development II. Enabling Technologies Enabling
   technologies are those upon which the subsystems, or modules, a. Gas
   Separation that form the building blocks of a Vision 21 plant depend.
   Some enabling b. High-temperature Heat Exchangers technologies, like
   gasification and advanced combustion, are already under c.
   Fuel-flexible Gasification development, and some are being demonstrated
   in the Clean Coal d. Gas Stream Purification Technology Demonstration
   Program. Others, such as gas separation, e. Advanced Combustion Systems
   require major improvements to existing technologies. f. Fuel-flexible
   Turbines g. Fuel Cells h. Advanced Fuels and Chemicals Development III.
   Supporting Technologies Supporting technologies are cross-cutting
   technologies that are necessary a. Materials for multiple Vision 21
   subsystems and components and also important b. Advanced Computational
   Modeling and in other, non-Vision 21, applications. Development of
   Virtual Demonstration Capability c. Advanced Controls and Sensors d.
   Environmental Control Technology e. Advanced Manufacturing and
   Modularization IV. Systems Integration Vision 21 plants will use
   "smart" systems integration techniques to combine a. Systems
   Engineering high-performance subsystems. Systems integration is a
   principal part of b. Dynamic Response and Control Vision 21 and is
   necessary to ensure the safe, reliable, and economic c. Industrial
   Ecology operation of Vision 21 plants. V. Plant Designs This program
   element produces the major products of the Vision 21 a. Designs for
   Components and Subsystems program. b. Designs for Prototype Plants c.
   Designs for Commercial Plants d. Virtual Demonstration Capability 14
   descriptions of the activities and milestones. ability to control
   operating parameters to ensure zero waste discharge with variable
   feedstocks. Status of Enabling and * Gas Stream Purification - Current
   status: Warm gas (700- 1000F) clean-up systems are being tested at
   utility scale. Supporting Technologies High-temperature (>1000F)
   systems with ultra-pure gas streams will be ready for commercial-scale
   testing by 2008. These higher temperature systems enable the use of
   Enabling Technologies: hydrogen membranes and improve efficiency by
   eliminat- ing the need to cool and then reheat gas streams. Next *
   Oxygen Separation Membrane - Current status: Mem- step: Scale up,
   verify durability of materials for catalysts branes are being tested at
   the laboratory scale. These high- and filters, improve high-temperature
   sorbents. Long-term temperature (1500F) membranes could start to
   replace Vision 21 needs: Reduce cost of catalyst and filter
   conventional energy intensive cryogenic separators by systems, increase
   longevity of materials and systems. 2007. Next step: Test for stability
   and chemical resistance, scale-up, component integration, verify
   longevity of * Advanced Combustion Systems - Current Status: High-
   membrane. Long-term Vision 21 needs: Cost reduction, temperature,
   low-NOx combustors have been developed process integration, verify
   survivability of membrane and tested at pilot-scale under the Low
   Emission Boiler system in a commercial application. Systems (LEBS),
   Advanced Pressurized Fluidized Bed Combustion (APFBC) and High
   Performance Power * Hydrogen Separation Membrane - Current status: Mem-
   Systems (HIPPS) programs. There is no current work on branes are being
   tested at the laboratory scale. These combustion in CO /O mixtures,
   needed to adapt these membranes, which should be available for testing
   at 2 2 systems for CO separation and sequestration. Next step:
   commercial scale by 2009, will allow high-temperature 2 Scale-up of
   low-NOx combustion systems to small separation of hydrogen from syngas
   for use as a fuel or commercial scale under LEBS; lab-scale studies to
   assess chemical feedstock. Next step: Test for stability and combustion
   of fuels in CO /O ; investigation of isothermal chemical resistance,
   scale-up, component integration, 2 2 compression. Long term Vision 21
   needs: Designs for verify longevity of membrane. Long-term Vision 21
   needs: higher temperature combustors that will burn fuels in CO / Cost
   reduction, process integration, dependability, verify 2 O mixtures and
   recycle CO exhaust. Goal is to have survivability of membrane system in
   a commercial 2 2 commercially ready designs by 2015. application. *
   Fuel Flexible Turbines - Current status: F class turbines are *
   High-Temperature Heat Exchanger - Current status: Metal currently being
   operated on syngas, the first of the G class alloy heat exchangers,
   capable of 2000F operation, are turbines are starting operation on
   conventional fuels and being tested at process development unit scale
   and will be the first advanced turbine systems (ATS) turbines will be
   available by 2005. Higher temperature (i.e., 3000F) tested on natural
   gas by 2000. Next step: Integration ceramic heat exchangers are in the
   materials R&D stage studies and technology development to integrate ATS
   with commercial introduction of large-scale units expected technology
   into Vision 21 systems. Long-term Vision 21 by 2020. High-temperature
   radiant heat exchangers are needs: Full-scale test of ATS fuel flexible
   turbine suitable required for Vision 21, especially for embodiments
   that for Vision 21 applications. use indirectly fired cycles. Gas exit
   temperatures above 2700F are needed to meet Vision 21 efficiency
   targets. * Fuel Cells - Current status: atmospheric pressure fuel cells
   Next step: Assess materials and system designs. Long-term are currently
   available in the several kilowatt to several Vision 21 needs: Develop
   designs and acceptable-cost megawatt range (at a cost of about $2000 -
   3000/kW). fabrication methods for large-scale ceramic heat exchange
   Pressurized, cascaded fuel cells, and fuel cell/turbine components;
   prove system ability to withstand multiple systems will be ready for
   commercial use by 2015. Next cold starts and temperature spikes. step:
   Identify optimal hybrid system, reduce cost by a factor of ten through
   improved manufacturing techniques * Fuel Flexible Gasification -
   Current status: Petcoke has and systems integration. Long-term Vision
   21 needs: been test fired in industrial- and utility-scale gasifiers
   and Continued cost reduction, verification of commercial scale
   combustors. Biomass, municipal waste, and many other system stability
   and reliability. opportunity feedstocks have had only limited or no
   test experience. Fuel flexibility is needed to allow use of low- *
   Advanced Fuels and Chemicals Development - Current cost feedstocks and
   to take advantage of synergies with status: Catalysts for producing
   some fuels and chemicals other industrial processes (e.g. pulp and
   paper, oil refining, are available for use at pilot- and
   commercial-scale. sewerage treatment plants). Next step: Characterize
   Adaptation and evolution of current systems to operate in feedstocks,
   assess handling and chemistry issues. Long- a Vision 21 plant will be
   completed by 2005. Next step: term Vision 21 needs: Prove feed system
   reliability, verify Identify optimum catalysts and systems, and scale
   up. 15 Long-term Vision 21 needs: Cost reduction. Develop methodology
   for incorporating modular design and construction practices into
   complex Vision 21 plants. Supporting Technologies: Activities and
   Milestones * Materials - Current status: New alloys and ceramics,
   suitable for use at high temperatures in corrosive environ- Activities
   and Milestones under each program element and ments, are being
   developed for Vision 21 subsystems and subelement are described below.
   components. Next step: Continue to develop advanced alloys and ceramic
   materials which allow for improved performance. Develop fabrication
   technology, e.g., I. Systems Analysis joining, welding. Long-term
   Vision 21 needs: Technology for fabricating, at acceptable cost,
   large-scale ceramic components for Vision 21 applications. Demonstrate
   a. Market Analysis reliability of such large-scale ceramic components.
   * Advanced Computational Modeling, Virtual Demonstration 1. Conduct
   market analyses/program reviews. Two - Current status: The use of
   virtual demos is already being market analyses will be conducted: the
   first in FY01 and the realized in other industries as a cost-effective
   way to second in FY08. The second study will update developments reduce
   construction and operational risks and to gain a involving possible
   restrictions on emission of greenhouse better understanding of system
   feedbacks. Next step: gases and market changes reflecting deregulation
   of the Develop a computer simulation to "demonstrate" integra- power
   industry. These analyses will suggest what features tion of new
   enabling and enhanced technology modules. and characteristics of Vision
   21 plants are desired by Long-term Vision 21 needs: Develop computer
   simula- potential purchasers. Variables to be included in the study are
   tions for complex plants, including co-production plants. plant size,
   whether fuel and/or chemical co-products are To the extent possible,
   verify that the simulator is accurate produced and, if so, the identity
   of the products. The pros- by comparing to actual facilities. pects for
   the use of low-value "opportunity feedstocks" and biomass in
   combination with fossil fuel feedstocks will be * Advanced Controls and
   Sensors - Current status: Gasifiers investigated. The effects of
   deregulation of the power and other equipment with instrument-hostile
   environments industry and emergence of distributed generation (DG)
   power generally rely on indirect and calculated (measurements systems
   on the valuation and use of waste heat will be estimated based on
   information at other locations in the examined. Markets for the heat
   will be described in terms of process) measurements. Advanced sensors
   and controls size, distribution, and other salient characteristics,
   e.g., are needed to monitor process conditions directly to chemical
   processing, space heating, and space conditioning. increase process
   efficiency, reliability, availability, and to The effect of this market
   on the size of DG power plants will detect early signs of failure. Next
   step: Develop and test be developed, as will opportunities for
   designing larger DG robust sensors and intelligent control systems.
   Long-term plants to enhance the value of byproduct heat. The need for
   Vision 21 needs: Test control systems and sensors in a CO collection
   for sequestration will be treated. The value commercial environment. 2
   that the post-regulated power market puts on efficiency, as * Advanced
   Environmental Control Technology- Current measured by acceptable
   capital cost for better performing status: Technology improvements for
   the existing fleet are plants, will be assessed. Adjustments of program
   emphasis enabling power generators to meet current and forecasted may
   be made after the market study results are reviewed. regulations. Next
   Step: Define control technology require- FY01-FY02, FY08-FY09 ments for
   Vision 21 plants and extend performance of Players: industry (e.g.,
   market research firms), FETC, FE-HQ existing technologies to meet these
   requirements, if possible. Long-term Vision 21 needs: Develop
   acceptable Milestones: cost technologies that effectively control all
   pollutants * Complete market analyses (FY01, FY08) from fossil fuels to
   mitigate any environmental conse- * Complete review of program emphasis
   in light of market quences. study results (FY02, FY09) * Advanced
   Manufacturing and Modularization - Current status: Most large
   industrial and utility fossil fuel plants are designed on a
   site-by-site basis. Next step: Design of b. Process Definition module
   packages in several fixed size ranges to reduce design and production
   costs. Long-term Vision 21 needs: 1. Define high-performance systems
   and key compo- nents. Solicitations will be issued in FY99 and FY06 to
   tap into industry's best ideas for high-efficiency, high-environ-
   mental performance Vision 21 systems for natural gas, coal, and other
   solid fuels such as biomass, petroleum coke, and municipal and
   industrial wastes. Contractors will describe 16 their power systems and
   use computer models to estimate * Complete second review (FY10) system
   performance predicated on assumed performance of one or more subsystems
   or key components that are not yet commercial, but are in development.
   Contractors will select e. Economic Analysis the subsystems and
   components that need further develop- ment and develop R&D objectives
   to bring these subsystems 1. Estimate costs of Vision 21 systems. An
   assessment of and components to commercial readiness. FY99-FY03 capital
   and operating costs of candidate Vision 21 systems FY06-FY10 will be
   performed after the two reviews of Vision 21 systems Players: industry,
   national labs, universities, FETC and subsystem/component performance
   requirements. A final Milestones: review will be performed in FY14.
   Cost estimates will emphasize costs of key components, subsystems, and
   plant * Issue solicitations (FY99, FY06) sections. The cost updates
   will reflect information gained * Select subsystems and components to
   be further developed during the development phase of key components and
   (FY01, FY08) subsystems. FY05, FY10, FY14 * Complete process definition
   reports (FY03, FY10) Players: industry, universities, FETC Milestones:
   c. Process Evaluation * Complete assessment report (FY05) * Complete
   assessment report (FY10) 1. Assess state-of-art of Vision 21 systems.
   At five-year * Complete assessment report (FY14) intervals a formal
   assessment will be conducted of current and near-term capabilities for
   building Vision 21 systems. Desired efficiency and pollutant emission
   targets will be f. Subsystem Data Analysis and Model specified. Output
   from the systems integration program Development element (IV) will be
   factored into the evaluation in order to help judge the potential
   reliability, availability, and maintain- ability of Vision 21 plants.
   Increasing the simplicity of 1. Analyze subsystem data and develop
   models. Sub- system configurations will be a goal, i.e., preference
   will be system models will be developed from experimental data and
   given to simpler configurations with comparable performance physical
   principles. State-of-art modeling and graphical to more complex
   configurations. FY04, FY09, FY14 display capabilities will be
   developed. FY02-FY12 Players: industry, national labs, universities,
   FETC Players: industry, universities, national laboratories, FETC,
   FE-HQ Milestones: Milestones: * Complete first assessment (FY04) *
   Complete description of critical units identified in compo- * Complete
   second assessment (FY09) nent and subsystem performance reviews (FY06,
   FY11) * Complete third assessment (FY14) * Complete development of
   subsystem models (FY12) d. Subsystem Performance Requirements II.
   Enabling Technologies 1. Review component and subsystem performance. A
   a. Gas Separation program review exercise will be conducted following
   each power systems state-of-art assessment. Key process compo- nents
   whose performance must be upgraded to permit 1. Develop air separation
   systems for oxygen-enriched significant improvement of overall process
   efficiency and/or air and high-purity oxygen. Air separation systems
   for the economics will be identified. This information will be used to
   production of 60-80% oxygen and high-purity oxygen will be target
   subsequent solicitations for component development so developed,
   including scaleup and integrated testing of dense that funds are
   directed to process areas representing critical ceramic ion transport
   membranes. In an IGCC plant, oxygen needs. FY05, FY10 production can
   account for 15-25% of the cost of the plant. Improvements in air
   separation technology can have a Players: FETC, FE-HQ profound impact
   on the overall economics of IGCC. The Milestones: availability of
   low-cost oxygen will also enable the use of * Complete first review
   (FY05) oxygen-enriched combustion, leading to the concentration of CO .
   FY00-FY08 2 Players: industry, national labs, universities, FETC 17
   Milestones: 4. Produce hydrogen from water dissociation. The dense *
   Initiate development of promising air enrichment technolo- ceramic
   proton-transfer membrane developed for separating gies (FY01) hydrogen
   from hot synthesis gas has shown the unique ability to simultaneously
   decompose water and separate hydrogen. * Initiate scale-up of ITM air
   separation technology for high- This activity will focus on developing,
   scaling up, and testing purity oxygen to 5 tons/day (FY02)
   membrane-based technologies for generation and separation * Begin
   ITM-oxygen/turbine integrated operation at 50 tons/ of hydrogen from
   high-temperature steam. FY00-FY15 day (FY05) Players: industry,
   national labs, universities, FETC * Test prototype air enrichment
   module (FY06) Milestones: * Begin integrated testing of air-enrichment
   module (FY08) * Initiate concept and materials development (FY00) *
   ITM-oxygen technology commercially ready (FY08) * Complete bench-scale
   testing of sub-scale modules (FY08) * Complete testing of full-scale
   module (FY11) 2. Develop membrane technologies for hydrogen separa- *
   Integrate technology with Vision 21 system (e.g., a system tion. This
   activity addresses the scaleup, and integrated in which a combustor and
   fuel cell utilize the products of testing of advanced inorganic
   membranes for high-tempera- the water splitting membrane) (FY15) ture
   hydrogen separation from synthesis gas. Low-cost hydrogen would create
   significant opportunities in a number of areas, including fuel cell
   power and fuels and chemicals b. High-temperature Heat Exchangers
   synthesis. FY00-FY10 Players: industry, national labs, universities,
   FETC 1. Develop alloy-tube heat exchangers. This activity Milestones:
   concerns the development and pilot-scale testing of high- * Initiate
   engineering development of high-temperature temperature heat exchangers
   containing alloy tubes for ceramic membrane technology (FY00) heating
   air and other process fluids to temperatures of 2300F. FY00-FY04 *
   Begin development and testing of modules in prototype unit (FY04)
   Players: industry, national labs, universities, FETC * Demonstrate
   integrated operation of full-scale modules Milestones: (FY06) *
   Demonstrate 1000 hours performance of pilot-scale air * Ceramic
   membrane technology commercially ready heater with 2300F capability
   (FY04) (FY10) 2. Develop ceramic-tube heat exchangers. High-tempera- 3.
   Develop CO hydrate-based technology for hydrogen ture heat exchangers
   using ceramic tubes for heating air and 2 separation. This technology
   offers a low-temperature other process fluids to temperatures of 3000F
   will be approach for the production of high-purity hydrogen from a
   developed and tested. FY03-FY10 shifted synthesis gas produced by the
   gasification of carbon- Players: industry, national labs, universities,
   FETC based feedstocks. The focus will be on the development,
   Milestones: scaleup, and integrated testing of CO hydrate-based
   technol- 2 * Demonstrate 1000 hours performance of pilot-scale air ogy
   for separation of hydrogen from synthesis gas, concen- heater with
   3000F capability (FY10) tration of CO , and sequestration. FY00-FY11 2
   Players: industry, national labs, universities, FETC Milestones: c.
   Fuel-flexible Gasification * Initiate development of CO hydrate-based
   technology 2 (FY00) 1. Develop solid fuel feeding technologies. Most
   gasifiers are designed to process one particular feedstock such as coal
   * Begin testing of small-scale skid-mounted unit at an exiting or
   petroleum coke. This limits the gasifier's ability to process
   gasification site (FY03) low-cost feedstocks that may become available.
   However, * Initiate scale-up for large-scale module demonstration
   feeding certain feedstocks, including biomass, to a high- (FY05)
   pressure gasifier has proved difficult. Because it is unlikely * Begin
   integration of CO sequestration in aquifers (FY 08) that sufficient
   crops can be grown in a local area to provide 2 * Hydrate technology
   commercially ready (FY11) the quantity necessary for a large
   gasification facility, it is necessary to develop technologies that
   will permit the use of a wide variety of feedstocks in combination with
   coal. This activity focuses on the development and testing of advanced
   18 technologies for feeding coal and other carbonaceous envisioned,
   high-temperature hydrogen membrane separation feedstocks (biomass, MSW)
   and assessing gasifier perfor- technologies will require filter
   operation at temperatures over mance. FY00-FY06 1300F. Other Vision 21
   concepts will require filters that Players: industry, national labs,
   universities, FETC operate at temperatures as high as 1550F. This
   activity focuses on developing and testing to resolve issues related to
   Milestones: high-temperature particulate filters for use in advanced *
   Begin development of feed system concepts for co-feeding gasification
   and combustion systems. One of the issues facing coal and other
   carbon-based materials (FY00) successful implementation of filter
   systems under high * Initiate bench-scale development and testing of
   promising temperature combustion conditions is ash bridging. Develop-
   feed systems (FY02) ing designs that are more tolerant of filter ash
   bridging, * Complete feed system demonstration (FY06) thermal shock and
   hopper overflow will increase reliability and reduce the O&M costs. Ash
   bridging with different filter designs will be studied at pilot-scale
   by varying temperatures 2. Develop and test advanced gasifiers. The
   gasifiers and particle size along with coal and sorbent types. New
   currently in operation are expensive, have difficulty process-
   configurations such as large sheets made from lightweight ing certain
   feedstocks, and may not be suitable for many composite materials and
   thinner wall candle filters, designed Vision 21 applications. This
   activity concerns novel gasifica- to resist ash bridging, will be
   tested in the laboratory to tion concepts including membrane-based
   gasifiers, advanced determine if they can be used at high temperatures
   under gasifiers for processing high-ash coals, transport gasifiers,
   gasification conditions. Successful candidates will then be and
   catalytic gasifiers. FY00-FY08 transaudient to pilot-scale testing.
   Filter element lifetimes will be established by pilot-scale testing
   over extended Players: industry, national labs, universities, FETC
   periods under combustion and gasification conditions. Ash Milestones:
   and char properties will continue to be assessed since it plays *
   Initiate concept development for advanced gasifiers a major role in
   determining the operational performance of (FY00) filter systems. As
   testing and evaluation of pilot-scale filter * Begin assessment of
   catalytic gasification and initiate system progresses, inadequacy in
   components or the need for concept development (FY02) ancillary
   equipment will be identified. FY00-FY04 * Initiate bench-scale
   development of promising gasification Players: industry, Power Systems
   Development Facility, concepts (FY02) FETC * Complete bench-scale
   development (FY06) Milestones: * Provide industry with advanced
   gasifier designs (FY08) * Develop large oxide ceramic composite sheet
   filters and large-bore inverted candle filters (FY02) * Develop and
   test at bench-scale safeguard devices for 3. Scale-up fluidized bed
   carbonizer (pyrolyzer). A PFBC systems (FY02) fluidized bed coal
   carbonizer (pyrolyzer) for second genera- * Design and test at
   bench-scale an advanced, low-cost filter tion fluidized bed combustion
   and indirectly fired cycles has concept (FY03) been tested at the 5
   million Btu/h scale. This activity will scale the carbonizer to 50
   million Btu/h and test its perfor- * Test at pilot-scale a filter
   system to further investigate the mance. FY00-FY07 bridging phenomenon
   (FY03) Players: industry, FETC * Test at pilot-scale advanced filter
   designs for bridging tolerance (FY04) Milestones: * Test at pilot-scale
   metal filters under high-temperature * Complete construction and
   shakedown of scaled gasification conditions (FY04) carbonizer/pyrolyzer
   (FY02) * Complete integrated testing with pressurized fluidized bed
   (PFB) and indirectly fired cycle (FY05) 2. Develop contaminant removal
   technology. This activity * Complete higher temperature testing and
   coproduction concerns development, testing and scale-up of chemical
   assessment (FY07) contaminant (H S, NH , alkalies, chlorides, SOx, NOx,
   Hg) 2 3 removal technologies to meet stringent gas quality require-
   ments for advanced combustion systems, synthesis gas d. Gas Stream
   Purification conversion, and fuel cell applications. Barrier filter
   elements offer a tremendous amount of surface area that can be made
   available for multi-contaminate control. Pilot-scale tests of 1.
   Develop high-temperature particulate filters. Develop- barrier filter
   systems integrated with technologies for gas- ment of low cost and
   highly reliable barrier filter systems is phase contaminate control
   will be conducted. The possibility necessary to reduce overall power
   system cost. As currently 19 of supporting catalysts or sorbents on the
   internal porous * Test sorbents at pilot-scale (FY08) surface area or
   internal open area of barrier filter elements will be explored.
   Injectable sorbents and getters will be assessed for use in barrier
   filter systems. Sorbents that can be f. Fuel-flexible Turbines injected
   upstream of barrier filters systems will be trapped on the dust cake
   and provide excellent gas and solids contact 1. Develop advanced
   combustion turbine technology. with long in-system residence time.
   Disposable sorbents may This activity concerns R&D to use advanced heat
   transfer be considered. New process operations will be required for and
   aerodynamics, and advanced materials, to develop the integration of
   gas-phase cleanup and particulate cleanup turbine combustion systems
   that operate under extremely in the same system or vessel. This effort
   will assess the need high-temperatures (3000F) and corrosive
   environments. for new equipment and process requirements for the
   success- Assessments will include advanced concepts, systems, and ful
   integration of gas-phase and particulate cleanup. FY00- components such
   as the CO Cooperate cycle; hydrogen FY06 2 turbine systems;
   supercritical steam turbines; ultra-high Players: industry, Power
   Systems Development Facility, efficiency simple and combined cycle
   systems with reheat, FETC intercooling, and optimal integration with
   gasification; direct Milestones: combustion and indirect fired power
   systems; and optimum efficiency thermodynamic concepts. FY00-FY08 *
   Develop and test at bench-scale multi-contaminant control filter
   elements (FY04) Players: industry (especially small business,
   universities, national laboratories, FETC * Develop and test injectable
   sorbents for use in hybrid, multi-contaminant control systems (FY04)
   Milestones: * Integrate gas-phase and particle cleanup systems (FY05) *
   Assess and define concepts for Vision 21 turbine/engine modules (FY03)
   * Conduct pilot-scale test of barrier filter systems (FY06) * Complete
   technology development for advanced turbine designs (FY08) e. Advanced
   Combustion Systems 1. Investigate "sequestration-ready" combustion
   systems. 2. Integrate improvements into existing designs. This
   Sequestration-ready systems will be developed that use activity focuses
   on improvements to existing platforms such oxygen enrichment and CO
   recycle in order to produce as Advanced Turbine Systems (ATS) and
   Flexible Gas 2 concentrated CO exhaust streams. FY02-FY06 Turbine
   Systems (FGTS) in order to achieve Vision 21 goals 2 for system
   performance and cost. Results from the R&D Players: industry, national
   labs, universities, FETC efforts will be incorporated into the designs
   of existing ATS Milestones: and other heat engine platforms to make
   them fuel-flexible, * Complete construction of pilot-scale system
   (FY03) and with enhanced performance to meet Vision 21 goals for *
   Measure effects on combustion properties and emissions system
   efficiency and cost. Selected platforms/products when burning natural
   gas, coal, and other fuels (FY06) modules will then be enhanced with
   the advanced technolo- gies. FY08-FY12 Players: industry (equipment
   designers), small businesses 2. Test integrated components. This
   activity concerns Milestones: testing of integrated components for
   ultra-high efficiency plants based on combinations of advanced
   pulverized coal * Select engines/turbines platforms from ATS and FGTS
   (PC) and PFB combustion technologies combined with high- programs for
   integration into Vision 21 systems (FY08) temperature heat exchangers,
   sorbents, and particulate * Design turbine/engines modules for Vision
   21 (FY11) removal. FY02-FY08 * Test selected platforms/products modules
   with advanced Players: industry, national labs, universities, FETC
