http://www.hq.nasa.gov/ogc/spaceact.html

   skip to content

   NASA Headquarters Office of the General Counsel Banner
   [USEMAP:row2.gif]
   OGC Home Page

The National Aeronautics and Space Act

Pub. L. No. 85-568,  As Amended
   _______________________________________________________________________

   TITLE I--SHORT TITLE, DECLARATION OF POLICY, AND DEFINITIONS

     SHORT TITLE
     DECLARATION OF POLICY AND PURPOSE
     DEFINITIONS

   TITLE II--COORDINATION OF AERONAUTICAL AND SPACE ACTIVITIES

     NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE COUNCIL
     NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION
     FUNCTIONS OF THE ADMINISTRATION
     INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION
     REPORTS TO CONGRESS
     DISPOSAL OF EXCESS LAND

   TITLE III--MISCELLANEOUS

     NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE FOR AERONAUTICS
     TRANSFER OF RELATED FUNCTIONS
     ACCESS TO INFORMATION
     SECURITY
     PROPERTY RIGHTS IN INVENTIONS
     CONTRIBUTIONS AWARDS
     DEFENSE OF CERTAIN MALPRACTICE AND NEGLIGENCE SUITS
     INSURANCE AND INDEMNIFICATION
     EXPERIMENTAL AEROSPACE VEHICLE
     APPROPRIATIONS
     MISUSE OF AGENCY NAME AND INITIALS
     CONTRACTS REGARDING EXPENDABLE LAUNCH VEHICLES

   TITLE IV--UPPER ATMOSPHERIC RESEARCH PURPOSE AND POLICY

     PURPOSE AND POLICY
     DEFINITIONS
     PROGRAM AUTHORIZED
     INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION
   _______________________________________________________________________

AN ACT

To provide for research into problems of flight within and outside the
earth's atmosphere, and for other purposes.

     Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
     United States of America in Congress assembled,

TITLE I--SHORT TITLE, DECLARATION OF POLICY, AND DEFINITIONS

SHORT TITLE

     Sec. 101.  This Act may be cited as the National Aeronautics and
     Space Act of 1958.

DECLARATION OF POLICY AND PURPOSE

     Sec. 102.  (a) The Congress hereby declares that it is the policy of
     the United States that activities in space should be devoted to
     peaceful purposes for the benefit of all mankind.
     (b) The Congress declares that the general welfare and security of
     the United States require that adequate provision be made for
     aeronautical and space activities.  The Congress further declares
     that such activities shall be the responsibility of, and shall be
     directed by, a civilian agency exercising control over aeronautical
     and space activities sponsored by the United States, except that
     activities peculiar to or primarily associated with the development
     of weapons systems, military operations, or the defense of the
     United States (including the research and development necessary to
     make effective provision for the defense of the United States) shall
     be the responsibility of, and shall be directed by, the Department
     of Defense; and that determination as to which such agency has
     responsibility for and direction of any such activity shall be made
     by the President in conformity with section 201(e).
     (c) The Congress declares that the general welfare of the United
     States requires that the National Aeronautics and Space
     Administration (as established by title II of this Act) seek and
     encourage, to the maximum extent possible, the fullest commercial
     use of space.
     (d) The aeronautical and space activities of the United States shall
     be conducted so as to contribute materially to one or more of the
     following objectives:
     (1) The expansion of human knowledge of the Earth and  of phenomena
     in the atmosphere and space;
     (2) The improvement of the usefulness, performance, speed, safety,
     and efficiency of aeronautical and space vehicles;
     (3) The development and operation of vehicles capable of carrying
     instruments, equipment, supplies, and living organisms through
     space;
     (4) The establishment of long-range studies of the potential
     benefits to be gained from, the opportunities for, and the problems
     involved in the utilization of aeronautical and space activities for
     peaceful and scientific purposes;
     (5) The preservation of the role of the United States as a leader in
     aeronautical and space science and technology and in the application
     thereof to the conduct of peaceful activities within and outside the
     atmosphere;
     (6) The making available to agencies directly concerned with
     national defense of discoveries that have military value or
     significance, and the furnishing by such agencies, to the civilian
     agency established to direct and control nonmilitary aeronautical
     and space activities, of information as to discoveries which have
     value or significance to that agency;
     (7) Cooperation by the United States with other nations and groups
     of nations in work done pursuant to this Act and in the peaceful
     application of the results thereof;
     (8) The most effective utilization of the scientific and engineering
     resources of the United States, with close cooperation among all
     interested agencies of the United States in order to avoid
     unnecessary duplication of effort, facilities, and equipment; and
     (9) The preservation of the United States preeminent position in
     aeronautics and space through research and technology development
     related to associated manufacturing processes.
     (e) The Congress declares that the general welfare of the United
     States requires that the unique competence in scientific and
     engineering systems of the National Aeronautics and Space
     Administration also be directed toward ground propulsion systems
     research and development. Such development shall be conducted so as
     to contribute to the objectives of developing energy- and
     petroleum-conserving ground propulsion systems, and of minimizing
     the environmental degradation caused by such systems.
     (f) The Congress declares that the general welfare of the United
     States requires that the unique competence of the National
     Aeronautics and Space Administration in science and engineering
     systems be directed to assisting in bioengineering research,
     development, and demonstration programs designed to alleviate and
     minimize the effects of disability.
     (g) It is the purpose of this Act to carry out and effectuate the
     policies declared in subsections (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), and (f).

DEFINITIONS

     Sec. 103.  As used in this Act--
      (1) the term "aeronautical and space activities" means (A) research
     into, and the solution of, problems of flight within and outside the
     Earth's atmosphere, (B) the development, construction, testing, and
     operation for research purposes of aeronautical and space vehicles,
     (C) the operation of a space transportation system including the
     Space Shuttle, upper stages, space platforms, and related
     equipment,  and (D) such other activities as may be required for the
     exploration of space; and
      (2) the term "aeronautical and space vehicles" means aircraft,
     missiles, satellites, and other space vehicles, manned and unmanned,
     together with related equipment, devices, components, and parts.

TITLE II--COORDINATION OF AERONAUTICAL AND SPACE ACTIVITIES

NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE COUNCIL

     [Sec. 201.  (a) There is hereby established the National Aeronautics
     and Space Council...]

NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION

     Sec. 202.  (a) There is hereby established the National Aeronautics
     and Space Administration (hereinafter called the "Administration").
     The Administration shall be headed by an Administrator, who shall be
     appointed from civilian life  by the President by and with the
     advice and consent of the Senate.   Under the supervision and
     direction of the President, the Administrator shall be responsible
     for the exercise of all powers and the discharge of all duties of
     the Administration, and shall have authority and control over all
     personnel and activities thereof.
     (b) There shall be in the Administration a Deputy Administrator, who
     shall be appointed from civilian life by the President by and with
     the advice and consent of the Senate and shall perform such duties
     and exercise such powers as the Administrator may prescribe.  The
     Deputy Administrator shall act for, and exercise the powers of, the
     Administrator during his absence or disability.
     (c) The Administrator and the Deputy Administrator shall not engage
     in any other business, vocation, or employment while serving as
     such.

FUNCTIONS OF THE ADMINISTRATION

     Sec. 203.  (a) The Administration, in order to carry out the purpose
     of this Act, shall--
     (1) plan, direct, and conduct aeronautical and space activities;
     (2) arrange for participation by the scientific community in
     planning scientific measurements and observations to be made through
     use of aeronautical and space vehicles, and conduct or arrange for
     the conduct of such measurements and observations;
     (3) provide for the widest practicable and appropriate dissemination
     of information concerning its activities and the results thereof;
     (4) seek and encourage, to the maximum extent possible, the fullest
     commercial use of space; and
     (5) encourage and provide for Federal Government use of commercially
     provided space services and hardware, consistent with the
     requirements of the Federal Government.
     (b)(1) The Administration shall, to the extent of appropriated
     funds, initiate, support, and carry out such research, development,
     demonstration, and other related activities in ground propulsion
     technologies as are provided for in sections 4 through 10 of the
     Electric and Hybrid Vehicle Research, Development, and Demonstration
     Act of 1976.
     (2) The Administration shall initiate, support, and carry out such
     research, development, demonstrations, and other related activities
     in solar heating and cooling technologies (to the extent that funds
     are appropriated therefor) as are provided for in sections 5, 6, and
     9 of the Solar Heating and Cooling Demonstration Act of 1974.
     (c) In the performance of its functions the Administration is
     authorized--
     (1) to make, promulgate, issue, rescind, and amend rules and
     regulations governing the manner of its operations and the exercise
     of the powers vested in it by law;
     (2) to appoint and fix the compensation of such officers and
     employees as may be necessary to carry out such functions.  Such
     officers and employees shall be appointed in accordance with the
     civil-service laws and their compensation fixed in accordance with
     the Classification Act of 1949, except that (A) to the extent the
     Administrator deems such action necessary to the discharge of his
     responsibilities, he may appoint not more than four hundred and
     twenty-five of the scientific, engineering, and administrative
     personnel of the Administration without regard to such laws, and may
     fix the compensation of such personnel not in excess of the highest
     rate of grade 18 of the General Schedule of the Classification Act
     of 1949, as amended  and (B) to the extent the Administrator deems
     such action necessary to recruit specially qualified scientific and
     engineering talent, he may establish the entrance grade for
     scientific and engineering personnel without previous service in the
     Federal Government at a level up to two grades higher than the grade
     provided for such personnel under the General Schedule established
     by the Classification Act of 1949, and fix their compensation
     accordingly;
     (3) to acquire (by purchase, lease, condemnation, or otherwise),
     construct, improve, repair, operate, and maintain laboratories,
     research and testing sites and facilities, aeronautical and space
     vehicles, quarters and related accommodations for employees and
     dependents of employees of the Administration, and such other real
     and personal property (including patents), or any interest therein,
     as the Administration deems necessary within and outside the
     continental United States; to acquire by lease or otherwise, through
     the Administrator of General Services, buildings or parts of
     buildings in the District of Columbia for the use of the
     Administration for a period not to exceed ten years without regard
     to the Act of March 3, 1877 (40 U.S.C. 34);  to lease to others such
     real and personal property; to sell and otherwise dispose of real
     and personal property (including patents and rights thereunder) in
     accordance with the provisions of the Federal Property and
     Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended (40 U.S.C. 471 et
     seq.); and to provide by contract or otherwise for cafeterias and
     other necessary facilities for the welfare of employees of the
     Administration at its installations and purchase and maintain
     equipment therefor;
     (4) to accept unconditional gifts or donations of services, money,
     or property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible;
     (5) without regard to section 3648 of the Revised Statutes, as
     amended (31 U.S.C. 529),  to enter into and perform such contracts,
     leases, cooperative agreements, or other transactions as may be
     necessary in the conduct of its work and on such terms as it may
     deem appropriate, with any agency or instrumentality of the United
     States, or with any State, Territory, or possession, or with any
     political subdivision thereof, or with any person, firm,
     association, corporation, or educational institution.  To the
     maximum extent practicable and consistent with the accomplishment of
     the purposes of this Act, such contracts, leases, agreements, and
     other transactions shall be allocated by the Administrator in a
     manner which will enable small-business concerns to participate
     equitably and proportionately in the conduct of the work of the
     Administration;
     (6) to use, with their consent, the services, equipment, personnel,
     and facilities of Federal and other agencies with or without
     reimbursement, and on a similar basis to cooperate with other public
     and private agencies and instrumentalities in the use of services,
     equipment, and facilities.  Each department and agency of the
     Federal Government shall cooperate fully with the Administration in
     making its services, equipment, personnel, and facilities available
     to the Administration, and any such department or agency is
     authorized, notwithstanding any other provision of law, to transfer
     to or to receive from the Administration, without reimbursement,
     aeronautical and space vehicles, and supplies and equipment other
     than administrative supplies or equipment;
     (7) to appoint such advisory committees as may be appropriate for
     purposes of consultation and advice to the Administration in the
     performance of its functions;
     (8) to establish within the Administration such offices and
     procedures as may be appropriate to provide for the greatest
     possible coordination of its activities under this Act with related
     scientific and other activities being carried on by other public and
     private agencies and organizations;
     (9) to obtain services as authorized by section 3109 of title 5,
     United States Code, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the
     per diem rate equivalent to the rate for GS-18;
     (10) when determined by the Administrator to be necessary, and
     subject to such security investigations as he may determine to be
     appropriate, to employ aliens without regard to statutory provisions
     prohibiting payment of compensation to aliens;
     (11) to provide by concession, without regard to section 321 of the
     Act of June 30, 1932 (47 Stat. 412; 40 U.S.C. 303b), on such terms
     as the Administrator may deem to be appropriate and to be necessary
     to protect the concessioner against loss of his investment in
     property (but not anticipated profits) resulting from the
     Administration's discretionary acts and decisions, for the
     construction, maintenance, and operation of all manner of facilities
     and equipment for visitors to the several installations of the
     Administration and, in connection therewith, to provide services
     incident to the dissemination of information concerning its
     activities to such visitors, without charge or with a reasonable
     charge therefor (with this authority being in addition to any other
     authority which the Administration may have to provide facilities,
     equipment, and services for visitors to its installations).  A
     concession agreement under this paragraph may be negotiated with any
     qualified proposer following due consideration of all proposals
     received after reasonable public notice of the intention to
     contract.  The concessioner shall be afforded a reasonable
     opportunity to make a profit commensurate with the capital invested
     and the obligations assumed, and the consideration paid by him for
     the concession shall be based on the probable value of such
     opportunity and not on maximizing revenue to the United States.
     Each concession agreement shall specify the manner in which the
     concessioner's records are to be maintained, and shall provide for
     access to any such records by the Administration and the Comptroller
     General of the United States for a period of five years after the
     close of the business year to which such records relate.  A
     concessioner may be accorded a possessory interest, consisting of
     all incidents of ownership except legal title (which shall vest in
     the United States), in any structure, fixture, or improvement he
     constructs or locates upon land owned by the United States; and,
     with the approval of the Administration, such possessory interest
     may be assigned, transferred, encumbered, or relinquished by him,
     and, unless otherwise provided by contract, shall not be
     extinguished by the expiration or other termination of the
     concession and may not be taken for public use without just
     compensation;
     (12) with the approval of the President, to enter into cooperative
     agreements under which members of the Army, Navy, Air Force, and
     Marine Corps may be detailed by the appropriate Secretary for
     services in the performance of functions under this Act to the same
     extent as that to which they might be lawfully assigned in the
     Department of Defense;
     (13)(A) to consider, ascertain, adjust, determine, settle, and pay,
     on behalf of the United States, in full satisfaction thereof, any
     claim for $25,000  or less against the United States for bodily
     injury, death, or damage to or loss of real or personal property
     resulting from the conduct of the Administration's functions as
     specified in subsection (a) of this section, where such claim is
     presented to the Administration in writing within two years after
     the accident or incident out of which the claim arises; and
     (B) if the Administration considers that a claim in excess of
     $25,000 is meritorious and would otherwise be covered by this
     paragraph, to report the facts and circumstances thereof to the
     Congress for its consideration;  and
     (14) Repealed.

     Sec. 204.  [Civilian-Military Liaison Committee] abolished.

INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION

     Sec. 205.  The Administration, under the foreign policy guidance of
     the President, may engage in a program of international cooperation
     in work done pursuant to this Act, and in the peaceful application
     of the results thereof, pursuant to agreements made by the President
     with the advice and consent of the Senate.

REPORTS TO CONGRESS

     Sec. 206.  (a) The President shall transmit to the Congress in May
     of each year a report, which shall include (1) a comprehensive
     description of the programed activities and the accomplishments of
     all agencies of the United States in the field of aeronautics and
     space activities during the preceding fiscal year, and (2) an
     evaluation of such activities and accomplishments in terms of the
     attainment of, or the failure to attain, the objectives described in
     section 102(c) of this Act.
     (b) Any report made under this section shall contain such
     recommendations for additional legislation as the Administrator or
     the President may consider necessary or desirable for the attainment
     of the objectives described in section 102(c) of this Act.
     (c) No information which has been classified for reasons of national
     security shall be included in any report made under this section,
     unless such information has been declassified by, or pursuant to
     authorization given by, the President.

DISPOSAL OF EXCESS LAND

     Sec. 207.  Notwithstanding the provisions of this or any other law,
     the Administration may not report to a disposal agency as excess to
     the needs of the Administration any land having an estimated value
     in excess of $50,000 which is owned by the United States and under
     the jurisdiction and control of the Administration, unless (A) a
     period of thirty days has passed after the receipt by the Speaker
     and the Committee on Science and Astronautics of the House of
     Representatives and the President and the Committee on Aeronautical
     and Space Sciences of the Senate  of a report by the Administrator
     or his designee containing a full and complete statement of the
     action proposed to be taken and the facts and circumstances relied
     upon in support of such action, or (B) each such committee before
     the expiration of such period has transmitted to the Administrator
     written notice to the effect that such committee has no objection to
     the the proposed action.

     Sec. 208.  [Donations For Space Shuttle Orbiter] authority expired.

TITLE III--MISCELLANEOUS

NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE FOR AERONAUTICS

     Sec. 301.  (a) The National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, on
     the effective date of this section, shall cease to exist.  On such
     date all functions, powers, duties, and obligations, and all real
     and personal property, personnel (other than members of the
     Committee), funds, and records of that organization, shall be
     transferred to the Administration.
     (b) Section 2302 of title 10 of the United States Code is amended by
     striking out "or the Executive Secretary of the National Advisory
     Committee for Aeronautics." and inserting in lieu thereof "or the
     Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space
     Administration."; and section 2303 of such title 10 is amended by
     striking out "The National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics." and
     inserting in lieu thereof "The National Aeronautics and Space
     Administration."
     (c) The first section of the Act of August 26, 1950 (5 U.S.C.
     22-1),  is amended by striking out "the Director, National Advisory
     Committee for Aeronautics" and inserting in lieu thereof "the
     Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration",
     and by striking out "or National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics"
     and inserting in lieu thereof "or National Aeronautics and Space
     Administration".
     (d) The Unitary Wind Tunnel Plan Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C. 511-515) is
     amended (1) by striking out "The National Advisory Committee for
     Aeronautics (hereinafter referred to as the 'Committee')" and
     inserting in lieu thereof "The Administrator of the National
     Aeronautics and Space Administration (hereinafter referred to as the
     'Administrator')"; (2) by striking out "Committee" or "Committee's"
     wherever they appear and inserting in lieu thereof "Administrator"
     and "Administrator's", respectively; and (3) by striking out "its"
     wherever it appears and inserting in lieu thereof "his".
     (e) This section shall take effect ninety days after the date of the
     enactment of this Act, or on any earlier date on which the
     Administrator shall determine, and announce by proclamation
     published in the Federal Register, that the Administration has been
     organized and is prepared to discharge the duties and exercise the
     powers conferred upon it by this Act.

TRANSFER OF RELATED FUNCTIONS

     Sec. 302.  (a) Subject to the provisions of this section, the
     President, for a period of four years after the date of enactment of
     this Act, may transfer to the Administration any functions
     (including powers, duties, activities, facilities, and parts of
     functions) of any other department or agency of the United States or
     of any officer or organizational entity thereof, which relate
     primarily to the functions, powers, and duties of the Administration
     as prescribed by section 203 of this Act.  In connection with any
     such transfer, the President may, under this section or other
     applicable authority, provide for appropriate transfers of records,
     property, civilian personnel, and funds.
     (b) Whenever any such transfer is made before January 1, 1959, the
     President shall transmit to the Speaker of the House of
     Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate a full
     and complete report concerning the nature and effect of such
     transfer.
     (c) After December 31, 1958, no transfer shall be made under this
     section until (1) a full and complete report concerning the nature
     and effect of such proposed transfer has been transmitted by the
     President to the Congress, and (2) the first period of sixty
     calendar days of regular session of the Congress following the date
     of receipt of such report by the Congress has expired without the
     adoption by the Congress of a concurrent resolution stating that the
     Congress does not favor such transfer.

ACCESS TO INFORMATION

     Sec. 303.  (a) Information obtained or developed by the
     Administrator in the performance of his functions under this Act
     shall be made available for public inspection; except (A)
     information authorized or required by Federal statute to be
     withheld, (B) information classified to protect the national
     security; and (C) information described in subsection (b):
     Provided, That nothing in this Act shall authorize the witholding of
     information by the Administrator from the duly authorized committees
     of the Congress.
     (b) The Administrator, for a period up to 5 years after the
     development of information that results from activities conducted
     under an agreement entered into under section 203(c)(5) and (6) of
     this Act, and that would be a trade secret or commercial or
     financial information that is privileged or confidential under the
     meaning of section 552(b)(4) of title 5, United States Code, if the
     information had been obtained from a non-Federal party participating
     in such an agreement, may provide appropriate protections against
     the dissemination of such information, including exemption from
     subchapter II of chapter 5 of title 5, United States Code.

SECURITY

     Sec. 304.  (a) The Administrator shall establish such security
     requirements, restrictions, and safeguards as he deems necessary in
     the interest of the national security.  The Administrator may
     arrange with the Director of the Office of Personnel Management  for
     the conduct of such security or other personnel investigations of
     the Administration's officers, employees, and consultants, and its
     contractors and subcontractors and their officers and employees,
     actual or prospective, as he deems appropriate; and if any such
     investigation develops any data reflecting that the individual who
     is the subject thereof is of questionable loyALTy the matter shall
     be referred to the Federal Bureau of Investigation for the conduct
     of a full field investigation, the results of which shall be
     furnished to the Administrator.
     (b) The Atomic Energy Commission  may authorize any of its
     employees, or employees of any contractor, prospective contractor,
     licensee, or prospective licensee of the Atomic Energy Commission or
     any other person authorized to have access to Restricted Data by the
     Atomic Energy Commission under subsection 145b. of the Atomic Energy
     Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2165(b)), to permit any member, officer, or
     employee of the Council, or the Administrator, or any officer,
     employee, member of an advisory committee, contractor,
     subcontractor, or officer or employee of a contractor or
     subcontractor of the Administration, to have access to Restricted
     Data relating to aeronautical and space activities which is required
     in the performance of his duties and so certified by the Council or
     the Administrator, as the case may be, but only if (1) the Council
     or Administrator or designee thereof has determined, in accordance
     with the established personnel security procedures and standards of
     the Council or Administration, that permitting such individual to
     have access to such Restricted Data will not endanger the common
     defense and security, and (2) the Council or Administrator or
     designee thereof finds that the established personnel and other
     security procedures and standards of the Council or Administration
     are adequate and in reasonable conformity to the standards
     established by the Atomic Energy Commission under section 145 of the
     Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2165).  Any individual granted
     access to such Restricted Data pursuant to this subsection may
     exchange such Data with any individual who (A) is an officer or
     employee of the Department of Defense, or any department or agency
     thereof, or a member of the armed forces, or a contractor or
     subcontractor of any such department, agency, or armed force, or an
     officer or employee of any such contractor or subcontractor, and (B)
     has been authorized to have access to Restricted Data under the
     provisions of section 143 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42
     U.S.C. 2163).
     (c)Chapter 37 of title 18 of the United States Code (entitled
     Espionage and Censorship) is amended by--
     (1) adding at the end thereof the following new section:

     "ยง 799. Violation of regulations of National Aeronautics and Space
     Administration

     "Whoever willfully shall violate, attempt to violate, or conspire to
     violate any regulation or order promulgated by the Administrator of
     the National Aeronautics and Space Administration for the protection
     or security of any laboratory, station, base or other facility, or
     part thereof, or any aircraft, missile, spacecraft, or similar
     vehicle, or part thereof, or other property or equipment in the
     custody of the Administration, or any real or personal property or
     equipment in the custody of any contractor under any contract with
     the Administration or any subcontactor of any such contractor, shall
     be fined not more than $5,000, or imprisoned not more than one year,
     or both."
     (2) adding at the end of the sectional analysis thereof the
     following new item:

     "799. Violation of regulations of National Aeronautics and Space
     Administration."

     (d) Section 1114 of title 18 of the United States Code is amended by
     inserting immediately before "while engaged in the performance of
     his official duties" the following:  "or any officer or employee of
     the National Aeronautics and Space Administration directed to guard
     and protect property of the United States under the administration
     and control of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration,".
     (e) The Administrator may direct such of the officers and employees
     of the Administration as he deems necessary in the public interest
     to carry firearms while in the conduct of their official duties.
     The Administrator may also authorize such of those employees of the
     contractors and subcontactors of the Administration engaged in the
     protection of property owned by the United States and located at
     facilities owned by or contracted to the United States as he deems
     necessary in the public interest, to carry firearms while in the
     conduct of their official duties.
     (f) Under regulations to be prescribed by the Administrator and
     approved by the Attorney General of the United States, those
     employees of the Administration and of its contractors and
     subcontractors authorized to carry firearms under subsection (e) may
     arrest without warrant for any offense against the United States
     committed in their presence, or for any felony cognizable under the
     laws of the United States if they have reasonable grounds to believe
     that the person to be arrested has committed or is committing such
     felony.  Persons granted authority to make arrests by this
     subsection may exercise that authority only while guarding and
     protecting property owned or leased by, or under the control of, the
     United States under the administration and control of the
     Administration or one of its contractors or subcontractors, at
     facilities owned by or contracted to the Administration.

PROPERTY RIGHTS IN INVENTIONS

     Sec. 305.  (a) Whenever any invention is made in the performance of
     any work under any contract of the Administration, and the
     Administrator determines that--
     (1) the person who made the invention was employed or assigned to
     perform research, development, or exploration work and the invention
     is related to the work he was employed or assigned to perform, or
     that it was within the scope of his employment duties, whether or
     not it was made during working hours, or with a contribution by the
     Government of the use of Government facilities, equipment,
     materials, allocated funds, information proprietary to the
     Government, or services of Government employees during working
     hours; or
     (2) the person who made the invention was not employed or assigned
     to perform research, development, or exploration work, but the
     invention is nevertheless related to the contract, or to the work or
     duties he was employed or assigned to perform, and was made during
     working hours, or with a contribution from the Government of the
     sort referred to in clause (1),
     such invention shall be the exclusive property of the United States,
     and if such invention is patentable a patent therefor shall be
     issued to the United States upon application made by the
     Administrator, unless the Administrator waives all or any part of
     the rights of the United States to such invention in conformity with
     the provisions of subsection (f) of this section.
     (b) Each contract entered into by the Administrator with any party
     for the performance of any work shall contain effective provisions
     under which such party shall furnish promptly to the Administrator a
     written report containing full and complete technical information
     concerning any invention, discovery, improvement, or innovation
     which may be made in the performance of any such work.
     (c) No patent may be issued to any applicant other than the
     Administrator for any invention which appears to the Commissioner of
     Patents  to have significant utility in the conduct of aeronautical
     and space activities unless the applicant files with the
     Commissioner, with the application or within thirty days after
     request therefor by the Commissioner, a written statement executed
     under oath setting forth the full facts concerning the circumstances
     under which such invention was made and stating the relationship (if
     any) of such invention to the performance of any work under any
     contract of the Administration.  Copies of each such statement and
     the application to which it relates shall be transmitted forthwith
     by the Commissioner to the Administrator.
     (d) Upon any application as to which any such statement has been
     transmitted to the Administrator, the Commissioner may, if the
     invention is patentable, issue a patent to the applicant unless the
     Administrator, within ninety days after receipt of such application
     and statement, requests that such patent be issued to him on behalf
     of the United States.  If, within such time, the Administrator files
     such a request with the Commissioner, the Commissioner shall
     transmit notice thereof to the applicant, and shall issue such
     patent to the Administrator unless the applicant within thirty days
     after receipt of such notice requests a hearing before a Board of
     Patent Appeals and Interferences  on the question whether the
     Administrator is entitled under this section to receive such
     patent.  The Board may hear and determine, in accordance with rules
     and procedures established for interference cases, the question so
     presented, and its determination shall be subject to appeal by the
     applicant or by the Administrator to the United States Court of
     Appeals for the Federal Circuit  in accordance with procedures
     governing appeals from decisions of the Board of Patent Appeals and
     Interferences in other proceedings.
     (e) Whenever any patent has been issued to any applicant in
     conformity with subsection (d), and the Administrator thereafter has
     reason to believe that the statement filed by the applicant in
     connection therewith contained any false representation of any
     material fact, the Administrator within five years after the date of
     issuance of such patent may file with the Commissioner a request for
     the transfer to the Administrator of title to such patent on the
     records of the Commissioner.  Notice of any such request shall be
     transmitted by the Commissioner to the owner of record of such
     patent, and title to such patent shall be so transferred to the
     Administrator unless within thirty days after receipt of such notice
     such owner of record requests a hearing before a Board of Patent
     Appeals and Interferences on the question whether any such false
     representation was contained in such statement.  Such question shall
     be heard and determined, and determination thereof shall be subject
     to review, in the manner prescribed by subsection (d) for questions
     arising thereunder.  No request made by the Administrator under this
     subsection for the transfer of title to any patent, and no
     prosecution for the violation of any criminal statute, shall be
     barred by any failure of the Administrator to make a request under
     subsection (d) for the issuance of such patent to him, or by any
     notice previously given by the Administrator stating that he had no
     objection to the issuance of such patent to the applicant therefor.
     (f) Under such regulations in conformity with this subsection as the
     Administrator shall prescribe, he may waive all or any part of the
     rights of the United States under this section with respect to any
     invention or class of inventions made or which may be made by any
     person or class of persons in the performance of any work required
     by any contract of the Administration if the Administrator
     determines that the interests of the United States will be served
     thereby.  Any such waiver may be made upon such terms and under such
     conditions as the Administrator shall determine to be required for
     the protection of the interests of the United States.  Each such
     waiver made with respect to any invention shall be subject to the
     reservation by the Administrator of an irrevocable, nonexclusive,
     nontransferable, royalty-free license for the practice of such
     invention throughout the world by or on behalf of the United States
     or any foreign government pursuant to any treaty or agreement with
     the United States.  Each proposal for any waiver under this
     subsection shall be referred to an Inventions and Contribution Board
     which shall be established by the Administrator within the
     Administration.  Such Board shall accord to each interested party an
     opportunity for hearing, and shall transmit to the Administrator its
     findings of fact with respect to such proposal and its
     recommendations for action to be taken with respect thereto.
     [(g)] deleted
     (h) The Administrator is authorized to take all suitable and
     necessary steps to protect any invention or discovery to which he
     has title, and to require that contractors or persons who retain
     title to inventions or discoveries under this section protect the
     inventions or discoveries to which the Administration has or may
     acquire a license of use.
     (i) The Administration shall be considered a defense agency of the
     United States for the purpose of chapter 17 of title 35 of the
     United States Code.
     (j) As used in this section--
     (1) the term "person" means any individual, partnership,
     corporation, association, institution, or other entity;
     (2) the term "contract" means any actual or proposed contract,
     agreement, understanding, or other arrangement, and includes any
     assignment, substitution of parties, or subcontract executed or
     entered into thereunder; and
     (3) the term "made", when used in relation to any invention, means
     the conception or first actual reduction to practice of such
     invention.
     (k) Any object intended for launch, launched, or assembled in outer
     space shall be considered a vehicle for purpose of section 272 of
     title 35, United States Code.
     (l) The use or manufacture of any patented invention incorporated in
     a space vehicle launched by the United States Government for a
     person other than the United States shall not be considered to be a
     use or manufacture by or for the United States within the meaning of
     section 1498(a) of title 28, United States Code unless the
     Administration gives an express authorization or consent for such
     use or manufacture.

CONTRIBUTIONS AWARDS

     Sec. 306.  (a) Subject to the provisions of this section, the
     Administrator is authorized, upon his own initiative or upon
     application of any person, to make a monetary award, in such amount
     and upon such terms as he shall determine to be warranted, to any
     person (as defined by section 305) for any scientific or technical
     contribution to the Administration which is determined by the
     Administrator to have significant value in the conduct of
     aeronautical and space activities.  Each application made for any
     such award shall be referred to the Inventions and Contributions
     Board established under section 305 of this Act.  Such Board shall
     accord to each such applicant an opportunity for hearing upon such
     application, and shall transmit to the Administrator its
     recommendation as to the terms of the award, if any, to be made to
     such applicant for such contribution.  In determining the terms and
     conditions of any award the Administrator shall take into account--
     (1) the value of the contribution to the United States;
     (2) the aggregate amount of any sums which have been expended by the
     applicant for the development of such contribution;
     (3) the amount of any compensation (other than salary received for
     services rendered as an officer or employee of the Government)
     previously received by the applicant for or on account of the use of
     such contribution by the United States; and
     (4) such other factors as the Administrator shall determine to be
     material.

     (b) If more than one applicant under subsection (a) claims an
     interest in the same contribution, the Administrator shall ascertain
     and determine the respective interests of such applicants, and shall
     apportion any award to be made with respect to such contribution
     among such applicants in such proportions as he shall determine to
     be equitable.  No award may be made under subsection (a) with
     respect to any contribution--
     (1) unless the applicant surrenders, by such means as the
     Administrator shall determine to be effective, all claims which such
     applicant may have to receive any compensation (other than the award
     made under this section) for the use of such contribution or any
     element thereof at any time by or on behalf of the United States, or
     by or on behalf of any foreign government pursuant to any treaty or
     agreement with the United States, within the United States or at any
     other place;
     (2) in any amount exceeding $100,000, unless the Administrator has
     transmitted to the appropriate committees of the Congress a full and
     complete report concerning the amount and terms of, and the basis
     for, such proposed award, and thirty calendar days of regular
     session of the Congress have expired after receipt of such report by
     such committees.

DEFENSE OF CERTAIN MALPRACTICE AND NEGLIGENCE SUITS

     Sec. 307.  (a) The remedy against the United States provided by
     sections 1346(b) and 2672 of title 28, United States Code, for
     damages for personal injury, including death, caused by the
     negligent or wrongful act or omission of any physician, dentist,
     nurse, pharmacist, or paramedical or other supporting personnel
     (including medical and dental technicians, nursing assistants, and
     therapists) of the Administration in the performance of medical,
     dental, or related heALTh care functions (including clinical studies
     and investigations) while acting within the scope of his duties or
     employment therein or therefor shall hereafter be exclusive of any
     other civil action or proceeding by reason of the same subject
     matter against such physician, dentist, nurse, pharmacist, or
     paramedical or other supporting personnel (or the estate of such
     person) whose act or omission gave rise to such action or
     proceeding.
     (b) The Attorney General shall defend any civil action or proceeding
     brought in any court against any person referred to in subsection
     (a) of this section (or the estate of such person) for any such
     injury.  Any such person against whom such civil action or
     proceeding is brought shall deliver within such time after date of
     service or knowledge of service as determined by the Attorney
     General, all process served upon such person or an attested true
     copy thereof to such person's immediate superior or to whomever was
     designated by the Administrator to receive such papers and such
     person shall promptly furnish copies of the pleading and process
     therein to the United States Attorney for the district embracing the
     place wherein the proceeding is brought to the Attorney General and
     to the Administrator.
     (c) Upon a certification by the Attorney General that any person
     described in subsection (a) was acting in the scope of such person's
     duties or employment at the time of the incident out of which the
     suit arose, any such civil action or proceeding commenced in a State
     court shall be removed without bond at any time before trial by the
     Attorney General to the district court of the United States of the
     district and division embracing the place wherein it is pending and
     the proceeding deemed a tort action brought against the United
     States under the provisions of title 28, United States Code, and all
     references thereto.  Should a United States district court determine
     on a hearing on a motion to remand held before a trial on the merits
     that the case so removed is one in which a remedy by suit within the
     meaning of subsection (a) of this section is not available against
     the United States, the case shall be remanded to the State court.
     (d) The Attorney General may compromise or settle any claim asserted
     in such civil action or proceeding in the manner provided in section
     2677 of title 28, United States Code, and with the same effect.
     (e) For purposes of this section, the provisions of section 2680(h)
     of title 28, United States Code, shall not apply to any cause of
     action arising out of a negligent or wrongful act of omission in the
     performance of medical, dental, or related heALTh care functions
     (including clinical studies and investigations).
     (f) The Administrator or his designee may, to the extent that the
     Administrator or his designee deem appropriate, hold harmless or
     provide liability insurance for any person described in subsection
     (a) for damages for personal injury, including death, caused by such
     person's negligent or wrongful act or omission in the performance of
     medical, dental, or related heALTh care functions (including
     clinical studies and investigations) while acting within the scope
     of such person's duties if such person is assigned to a foreign
     country or detailed for service with other than a Federal
     department, agency, or instrumentality or if the circumstances are
     such as are likely to preclude the remedies of third persons against
     the United States described in section 2679(b) of title 28, United
     States Code, for such damage or injury.

INSURANCE AND INDEMNIFICATION

     Sec. 308.  (a) The Administration is authorized on such terms and to
     the extent it may deem appropriate to provide liability insurance
     for any user of a space vehicle to compensate all or a portion of
     claims by third parties for death, bodily injury, or loss of or
     damage to property resulting from activities carried on in
     connection with the launch, operations or recovery of the space
     vehicle.  Appropriations available to the Administration may be used
     to acquire such insurance, but such appropriations shall be
     reimbursed to the maximum extent practicable by the users under
     reimbursement policies established pursuant to section 203(c) of
     this Act.
     (b) Under such regulations in conformity with this section as the
     Administrator shall prescribe taking into account the availability,
     cost and terms of liability insurance, any agreement between the
     Administration and a user of a space vehicle may provide that the
     United States will indemnify the user against claims (including
     reasonable expenses of litigation or settlement) by third parties
     for death, bodily injury, or loss of or damage to property resulting
     from activities carried on in connection with the launch, operations
     or recovery of the space vehicle, but only to the extent that such
     claims are not compensated by liability insurance of the user:
     Provided, That such indemnification may be limited to claims
     resulting from other than the actual negligence or willful
     misconduct of the user.
     (c) An agreement made under subsection (b) that provides
     indemnification must also provide for--
     (1) notice to the United States of any claim or suit against the
     user for the death, bodily injury, or loss of or damage to the
     property; and
     (2) control of or assistance in the defense by the United States, at
     its election, of that suit or claim.
     (d) No payment may be made under subsection (b) unless the
     Administrator or his designee certifies that the amount is just and
     reasonable.
     (e) Upon the approval by the Administrator, payments under
     subsection (b) may be made, at the Administrator's election, either
     from funds available for research and development not otherwise
     obligated or from funds appropriated for such payments.
     (f) As used in this section--
     (1) the term "space vehicle" means an object intended for launch,
     launched or assembled in outer space, including the Space Shuttle
     and other components of a space transportation system, together with
     related equipment, devices, components and parts;
     (2) the term "user" includes anyone who enters into an agreement
     with the Administration for use of all or a portion of a space
     vehicle, who owns or provides property to be flown on a space
     vehicle, or who employs a person to be flown on a space vehicle;
     and
     (3) the term "third party" means any person who may institute a
     claim against a user for death, bodily injury or loss of or damage
     to property.

EXPERIMENTAL AEROSPACE VEHICLE

     Sec. 309.  (a) IN GENERAL.The Administrator may provide liability
     insurance for, or indemnification to, the developer of an
     experimental aerospace vehicle developed or used in execution of an
     agreement between the Administration and the developer.
     (b) TERMS AND CONDITIONS.
     (1) IN GENERAL.Except as otherwise provided in this section, the
     insurance and indemnification provided by the Administration under
     subsection (a) to a developer shall be provided on the same terms
     and conditions as insurance and indemnification is provided by the
     Administration under section 308 of this Act to the user of a space
     vehicle.
     (2) INSURANCE.
     (A) IN GENERAL.A developer shall obtain liability insurance or
     demonstrate financial responsibility in amounts to compensate for
     the maximum probable loss from claims by
     (i) a third party for death, bodily injury, or property damage, or
     loss resulting from an activity carried out in connection with the
     development or use of an experimental aerospace vehicle; and
     (ii) the United States Government for damage or loss to Government
     property resulting from such an activity.
     (B) MAXIMUM REQUIRED.The Administrator shall determine the amount of
     insurance required, but, except as provided in subparagraph (C),
     that amount shall not be greater than the amount required under
     section 70112(a)(3) of title 49, United States Code, for a launch.
     The Administrator shall publish notice of the Administrators
     determination and the applicable amount or amounts in the Federal
     Register within 10 days after making the determination.
     (C) INCREASE IN DOLLAR AMOUNTS.The Administrator may increase the
     dollar amounts set forth in section 70112(a)(3)(A) of title 49,
     United States Code, for the purpose of applying that section under
     this section to a developer after consultation with the Comptroller
     General and such experts and consultants as may be appropriate, and
     after publishing notice of the increase in the Federal Register not
     less than 180 days before the increase goes into effect.  The
     Administrator shall make available for public inspection, not later
     than the date of publication of such notice, a complete record of
     any correspondence received by the Administration, and a transcript
     of any meetings in which the Administration participated, regarding
     the proposed increase.
     (D) SAFETY REVIEW REQUIRED BEFORE ADMINISTRATOR PROVIDES
     INSURANCE.The Administrator may not provide liability insurance or
     indemnification under subsection (a) unless the developer
     establishes to the satisfaction of the Administrator that
     appropriate safety procedures and practices are being followed in
     the development of the experimental aerospace vehicle.
     (3) NO INDEMNIFICATION WITHOUT CROSS-WAIVER.Notwithstanding
     subsection (a), the Administrator may not indemnify a developer of
     an experimental aerospace vehicle under this section unless there is
     an agreement between the Administration and the developer described
     in subsection (c).
     (4) APPLICATION OF CERTAIN PROCEDURES.If the Administrator requests
     additional appropriations to make payments under this section, like
     the payments that may be made under section 308(b) of this Act, then
     the request for those appropriations shall be made in accordance
     with the procedures established by subsections (d) and (e) of
     section 70113 of title 49, United States Code.
     (c) CROSS-WAIVERS.
     (1) ADMINISTRATOR AUTHORIZED TO WAIVE.The Administrator, on behalf
     of the United States, and its departments, agencies, and
     instrumentalities, may reciprocally waive claims with a developer or
     cooperating party and with the related entities of that developer or
     cooperating party under which each party to the waiver agrees to be
     responsible, and agrees to ensure that its own related entities are
     responsible, for damage or loss to its property for which it is
     responsible, or for losses, resulting from any injury or death
     sustained by its own employees or agents, as a result of activities
     connected to the agreement or use of the experimental aerospace
     vehicle.
     (2) LIMITATIONS.
     (A) CLAIMS.A reciprocal waiver under paragraph (1) may not preclude
     a claim by any natural person (including, but not limited to, a
     natural person who is an employee of the United States, the
     developer, the cooperating party, or their respective
     subcontractors) or that natural persons estate, survivors, or
     subrogees for injury or death, except with respect to a subrogee
     that is a party to the waiver or has otherwise agreed to be bound by
     the terms of the waiver.
     (B) LIABIITY FOR NEGLIGENCE.A reciprocal waiver under paragraph (1)
     may not absolve any party of liability to any natural person
     (including, but not limited to, a natural person who is an employee
     of the United States, the developer, the cooperating party, or their
     respective subcontractors) or such a natural persons estate,
     survivors, or subrogees for negligence, except with respect to a
     subrogee that is a party to the waiver or has otherwise agreed to be
     bound by the terms of the waiver.
     (C) INDEMNIFICATION FOR DAMAGES.A reciprocal waiver under paragraph
     (1) may not be used as the basis of a claim by the Administration,
     or the developer or cooperating party, for indemnification against
     the other for damages paid to a natural person, or that natural
     persons estate, survivors, or subrogees, for injury or death
     sustained by that natural person as a result of activities connected
     to the agreement or use of the experimental aerospace vehicle.
     (D) WILLFUL MISCONDUCT.A reciprocal waiver under paragraph (1) may
     not relieve the United States, the developer, the cooperating party,
     or the related entities of the developer or cooperating party, of
     liability for damage or loss resulting from willful misconduct.
     (3) EFFECT ON PREVIOUS WAIVERS.Subsection (c) applies to any waiver
     of claims entered into by the Administration without regard to
     whether it was entered into before, on, or after the date of the
     enactment of this Act.
     (d) DEFINITIONS.In this section:
     (1) COOPERATING PARTY.The term cooperating party means any person
     who enters into an agreement with the Administration for the
     performance of cooperative scientific, aeronautical, or space
     activities to carry out the purposes of this Act.
     (2) DEVELOPER.The term developer means a United states person (other
     than a natural person) who--
     (A) is a party to an agreement with the Administration for the
     purpose of developing new technology for an experimental aerospace
     vehicle;
     (B) owns or provides property to be flown or situated on that
     vehicle; or (C) employs a natural person to be flown on that
     vehicle.
     (3) EXPERIMENTAL AEROSPACE VEHICLE.The term experimental aerospace
     vehicle means an object intended to be flown in, or launched into,
     orbital or suborbital flight for the purpose of demonstrating
     technologies necessary for a reusable launch vehicle, developed
     under an agreement between the Administration and a developer.
     (4) RELATED ENTITTY.The term related entity includes a contractor or
     subcontractor at any tier, a supplier, a grantee, and an
     investigator or detailee.
     (e) RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER LAWS.
     (1) SECTION 308.This section does not apply to any object,
     transaction, or operation to which section 308 of this Act applies.
     (2) CHAPTER 701 OF TITLE 49, UNITED STAES CODE.The Administrator may
     not provide indemnification to a developer under this section for
     launches subject to license under section 70117(g)(1) of title 49,
     United States Code.
     (f) TERMINATION.
     (1) IN GENERAL.The provisions of this section shall terminate on
     December 31, 2002, except that the Administrator may extend the
     termination date to a date not later than September 30, 2005, if the
     Administrator determines that such extension is in the interests of
     the United States.
      (2) EFFECT OF TERMINATION ON AGREEMENT.The termination of this
     section shall not terminate or otherwise affect any cross-waiver
     agreement, insurance agreement, indemnification agreement, or other
     agreement entered into under this section, except as may be provided
     in that agreement.

APPROPRIATIONS

     Sec. 310.  (a) There are hereby authorized to be appropriated such
     sums as may be necessary to carry out this Act, except that nothing
     in this Act shall authorize the appropriation of any amount for (1)
     the acquisition or condemnation of any real property, or (2) any
     other item of a capital nature (such as plant or facility
     acquisition, construction, or expansion) which exceeds $250,000.
     Sums appropriated pursuant to this subsection for the construction
     of facilities, or for research and development activities, shall
     remain available until expended.
     (b) Any funds appropriated for the construction of facilities may be
     used for emergency repairs of existing facilities when such existing
     facilities are made inoperative by major breakdown, accident, or
     other circumstances and such repairs are deemed by the Administrator
     to be of greater urgency than the construction of new facilities.
     (c) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the authorization of
     any appropriation to the Administration shall expire (unless an
     earlier expiration is specifically provided) at the close of the
     third fiscal year following the fiscal year in which the
     authorization was enacted, to the extent that such appropriation has
     not theretofore actually been made.

MISUSE OF AGENCY NAME AND INITIALS

     Sec. 311.  (a) No person (as defined by section 305) may (1)
     knowingly use the words National Aeronautics and Space
     Administration or the letters NASA, or any combination, variation,
     or colorable imitation of those words or letters either alone or in
     combination with other words or letters, as a firm or business name
     in a manner reasonably calculated to convey the impression that such
     firm or business has some connection with, endorsement of, or
     authorization from, the National Aeronautics and Space Ad
     ministration which does not, in fact, exist; or (2) knowingly use
     those words or letters or any combination, variation, or colorable
     imitation thereof either alone or in combination with other words or
     letters in connection with any product or service being offered or
     made available to the public in a manner reasonably calculated to
     convey the impression that such product or service has the
     authorization, support, sponsorship, or endorsement of, or the
     development, use, or manufacture by or on behalf of the National
     Aeronautics and Space Administration which does not, in fact,
     exist.
     (b) Whenever it appears to the Attorney General that any person is
     engaged in an act or practice which constitutes or will constitute
     conduct prohibited by subsection (a), the Attorney General may
     initiate a civil proceeding in a district court of the United States
     to enjoin such act or practice.

CONTRACTS REGARDING EXPENDABLE LAUNCH VEHICLES

     Sec. 312.  (a) The Administrator may enter into contracts for
     expendable launch vehicle services that are for periods in excess of
     the period for which funds are otherwise available for obligation,
     provide for the payment for contingent liability which may accrue in
     excess of available appropriations in the event the Government for
     its convenience terminates such contracts, and provide for advance
     payments reasonably related to launch vehicle and related equipment,
     fabrication, and acquisition costs, if any such contract limits the
     amount of the payments that the Federal Government is allowed to
     make under such contract to amounts provided in advance in
     appropriation Acts.  Such contracts may be limited to sources within
     the United States when the Administrator determines that such
     limitation is in the public interest.
     (b) If funds are not available to continue any such contract, the
     contract shall be terminated for the convenience of the Government,
     and the costs of such contract shall be paid from appropriations
     originally available for performance of the contract, from other,
     unobligated appropriations currently available for the procurement
     of launch services, or from funds appropriated for such payments.

      Sec. 312.  (a) Appropriations for the Administration for fiscal
     year 2002 and thereafter shall be made in three accounts, Human
     space flight, Science, aeronautics and technology, and an account
     for amounts appropriated for the necessary expenses of the Office of
     Inspector General.  Appropriations shall remain available for 2
     fiscal years.  Each account shall include the planned full costs of
     the Administrations related activities.
      (b) To ensure the safe, timely, and successful accomplishment of
     Administration missions, the Administration may transfer amounts for
     Federal salaries and benefits; training, travel and awards; facility
     and related costs; information technology services; publishing
     services; science, engineering, fabricating and testing services;
     and other administrative services among accounts, as necessary.
      (c) The Administrator, in consultation with the Director of the
     Office of Management and Budget, shall determine what balances from
     the Mission support account are to be transferred to the Human space
     flight and Science, aeronautics and technology accounts.  Such
     balances shall be transferred and merged with the Human space flight
     and Science, aeronautics and technology accounts, and remain
     available for the period of which originally appropriated.

TITLE IV--UPPER ATMOSPHERIC RESEARCH

PURPOSE AND POLICY

     Sec. 401.  (a) The purpose of this title is to authorize and direct
     the Administration to develop and carry out a comprehensive program
     of research, technology, and monitoring of the phenomena of the
     upper atmosphere so as to provide for an understanding of and to
     maintain the chemical and physical integrity of the Earth's upper
     atmosphere.
     (b) The Congress declares that is the policy of the United States to
     undertake an immediate and appropriate research, technology, and
     monitoring program that will provide for understanding the physics
     and chemistry of the Earth's upper atmosphere.

DEFINITIONS

     Sec. 402.  For the purpose of this title the term "upper atmosphere"
     means that portion of the Earth's sensible atmosphere above the
     troposphere.

PROGRAM AUTHORIZED

     Sec. 403.  (a) In order to carry out the purposes of this title the
     Administration in cooperation with other Federal agencies, shall
     initiate and carry out a program of research, technology,
     monitoring, and other appropriate activities directed to understand
     the physics and chemistry of the upper atmosphere.
     (b) In carrying out the provisions of this title the Administration
     shall--
     (1) arrange for participation by the scientific and engineering
     community, of both the Nation's industrial organizations and
     institutions of higher education, in planning and carrying out
     appropriate research, in developing necessary technology and in
     making necessary observations and measurements;
     (2) provide, by way of grant, contract, scholarships or other
     arrangements, to the maximum extent practicable and consistent with
     other laws, for the widest practicable and appropriate participation
     of the scientific and engineering community in the program
     authorized by this title; and
     (3) make all results of the program authorized by this title
     available to the appropriate regulatory agencies and provide for the
     widest practicable dissemination of such results.

INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION

     Sec. 404.  In carrying out the provisions of this title, the
     Administration, subject to the direction of the President and after
     consultation with the Secretary of State, shall make every effort to
     enlist the support and cooperation of appropriate scientists and
     engineers of other countries and international organizations.

     As amended through Pub. L. 106-391, 114 Stat. 1577 (October 30,
     2000)
     __________________________________________________________________

     OGC Disclaimer: The materials within this website do not constitute
                                legal advice.
                      For details read our disclaimer.

             [ NASA Home Page ] [ NASA Headquarters Home Page ]

                                       Responsible NASA Official: Sue Palk
                                                             Last Updated:
                                       NASA Privacy Statement, Disclaimer,
                                           and Accessibility Certification
