http://kist.gsfc.nasa.gov

   Spacer Welcome to the KIST Page
   KIST Icon Spacer

   What's New In KIST

   What is KIST

   Get Involved with KIST

   Educator Resource Data Bank

   KIST Services

   KIST Activities

   KIST Kid's Page

   Spacer


   Welcome to the KIST Collaborative!

   KIST is excited to have so many organizations interested in partnering
   with us to help make a difference in science, math and technology
   education for our "Missing Kids", our students in resource poor areas
   of Washington, DC, Prince George's County and Baltimore City.

   Our resource database is complete and on-line, thanks to some very
   talented and dedicated people at the Goddard Space Flight Center (GSFC)
   such as Tom Bagg, Chris Durachka, Valerie Ward, Debbie Ladwig and Rick
   Fitzgerald to name just a few!

   The KIST resource database features extensive search capabilities and
   on-line, web based entry and look-up capability. Funding for the
   development of our resource database is through grants from GSFC, as
   well as volunteer time from many dedicated people.

   The new KIST web site is also up and running, with on-going new
   information added regularly. Access to the resource database is
   available, and being used by area teachers.

   If you have a program, information, funding, or other resources you
   would like to make available to science, math or technology teachers in
   the Washington/Baltimore metro area, Please see our on-line form under
   Educator Resources, to add your information, or call us directly to
   discuss any questions you may have.
   Your information will appear in the resource database and in the
   upcoming Resource Guide which will be distributed to all teachers in
   our targeted areas.

                                  KIST Logo

   Publication of the KIST Teacher Resource Guide is scheduled for
   distribution next fall to science, math and technology teachers in the
   Baltimore City, Prince George's county and Washington, DC schools. This
   will be a printed Resource Guide. Our Resource Guide is also available
   on-line for those who have web access.

   Several KIST satellite offices are being sought, for distribution of
   KIST Resources. Please contact us if you are interested in
   participation in this area.

   We are working on firm commitments with our Stakeholders, and welcome
   any persons or organizations that would like to participate.

   Liz Brain
   Director, KIST

        Providing children opportunities to experience the value of science
              and technology empowers them to create their own future


   Author/Curator: Web Applications & Graphics Services (WAGS)
                   KIST Director: Ms Liz Brain, (301) 754-1420
    NASA Privacy Statement and NASA IT Security Warning Banner
