http://www.coralreef.noaa.gov


   NOAA Banner
               Home Button

                          SiteMap Button

                                        Contacts Button

                                                       Search Button


   NOAA's Coral Reef home page banner

   spacer

   Welcome to NOAA's Coral Reef online. Here you can find a wealth of
   information about coral reefs, the rain forests of the sea. Dive in and
   see nature's treasures in the ocean.

   Why should we care about coral reefs? Coral reefs are important to our
   future.

   Reefs are:

     home and nursery for almost a million fish and other species, many
   that we rely on for food;

     some of the Earth's most diverse living ecosystems;

     full of new and undiscovered biomedical resources that we've only
   just begun to explore;

     important protection for coastal communities from storms, wave damage
   and erosion.

                                Announcement

     Funding Available for Coral Reef Conservation Projects Through the
     National Fish and Wildlife Foundation

     NOAA is working with the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation to
     provide funding for coral reef conservation projects. NFWF is
     accepting proposals for projects that build public-private
     partnerships to reduce and prevent degradation of coral reefs and
     associated reef habitats (e.g. seagrass beds, mangroves etc.).
     Projects may address causes of coral reef degradation wherever they
     occur, from inland areas to coastal watersheds to the reefs and
     surrounding marine environment. Proposals should support
     partnerships that provide solutions to specific problems to help
     prevent coral reef degradation through one or more of the following
     activities:

     * Reducing impacts from pollution and sedimentation;
     * Reducing impacts from over-harvesting and other fishing activities;
     * Reducing impacts of tourism and boating;
     * Restoring damaged reefs;
     * Increasing community awareness through education and stewardship
       activities.

     Proposals are due April 3, 2002 (no exceptions). For more
     information and application instructions see
     http://www.nfwf.org/programs/coralreef.htm or contact Michelle Pico.

     NOAA Publishes Coral Reef Grant Program Proposed Implementation
     Guidelines for Public Comment

     On December 10, 2001, NOAA published Proposed Implementation
     Guidelines for the Coral Reef Conservation Grant Program, per the
     Coral Reef Conservation Act of 2000. The Proposed Guidelines were
     published in the Federal Register for review.

     Click here to view a PDF copy of the Proposed Implementation
     Guidelines. Click here for a text version.
     Click here to view a PDF copy of the Coral Reef Conservation Act of
     2000.
     Click here to download a copy of Adobe Acrobat Reader.

                             Contact Information

   To arrange media interviews contact the following:

   Madelyn Appelbaum at (202) 482-4858

   For program information contact Roger Griffis at (202) 482-5034

   To comment on this Web site and also arrange media interviews contact
   Greg Hernandez, NOAA public affairs Washington, DC, (202) 482-3091.

                                   spacer

      spacer

      line
      Latest News
      line
        * Commerce Department Announces $34 Million Funding for Coral Reef
          Conservation
        * What Are Coral Reefs And Why Are They in Peril?

      line
      More Links
      line
      spacer

        * United States Coral Reef Task Force
        * Tropical Ocean Coral Bleaching Indices
        * Coral Bleaching Hot Spots
        * Coral Reef Initiative 2000
        * News Releases
        * Coral Health and Monitoring Program
        * Coral Reefs and Associated Ecosystems
        * Coral Reefs: Critical Biodiversity and Fisheries Resources
        * Coral Reefs Photos
        * NOAA's Marine Sanctuaries
        * NOAA Resources for Recreational Divers
        * Great American Fish Count
        * Year of the Coral Reef 1997
        * More Links


   Click here for NOAA home page

   spacer

   line

   Publication of the National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)
   Last Updated: 1/17/02

   spacer
