http://www-mls.jpl.nasa.gov

                            [USEMAP:masthead.gif]

            Welcome to the Microwave Limb Sounder (MLS) Web Site

         [cov_nature930415-tiny.gif] [clo_o3_30aug96_title-tiny.gif]
                  [mls_uptrop_h2o_sept_1996_1997-tiny.gif]

   The Microwave Limb Sounder (MLS) experiments measure
   naturally-occurring microwave thermal emission from the limb of Earth's
   atmosphere to remotely sense vertical profiles of selected atmospheric
   gases, temperature and pressure. The first MLS experiment in space is
   on NASA's Upper Atmosphere Research Satellite (UARS) with its major
   objective to improve understanding of stratospheric ozone, especially
   ozone depletion due to chlorine chemistry. The next-generation MLS,
   under development for the Aura (formerly CHEMISTRY) Mission of NASA's
   Earth Observing System (EOS), addresses a broader range of global
   change issues. Aircraft and balloon versions of the MLS experiments
   were also developed prior to the space experiments, and are still
   continuing.

     * Scientific Results
     * Publications
     * UARS MLS Data
     * UARS MLS Instrument
     * The EOS MLS Experiment
     * Personnel
     * What's New  (latest entry: 10 February 2000)

   Some features of the MLS technique include:
     * measurements which can be made reliably, even in the presence of
       cirrus, polar stratospheric clouds, or volcanic aerosols;
     * measurements made continuously at all times of day and night;
     * the ability to measure many atmospheric gases, temperature and
       pressure;
     * the ability to spectrally-resolve emission lines at all altitudes
       which allows measurements of very weak lines in the presence of
       nearby strong ones;
     * composition measurements which are relatively insensitive to
       uncertainties in atmospheric temperature;
     * a very accurate spectroscopic data base;
     * instrumentation with excellent calibration and stability that can
       be modularly designed for ease in accommodating changing
       measurement priorities, can provide good vertical resolution which
       is set by the size of the antenna, and with new array technology
       can provide good horizontal resolution including complete coverage
       between orbits.

   The MLS experiments are led by the California Institute of Technology
   Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Scientists from the University of Edinburgh
   Institute for Meteorology are an integral part of the MLS team and
   contribute to the data processing algorithms and scientific analyses.
   The JPL Molecular Spectroscopy Team and collaborators provide major
   support to MLS for spectroscopic data. Many collaborations exist with
   groups throughout the world for scientific analyses of the data.
   Heriot-Watt University and Rutherford Appleton Laboratory in the UK
   contributed to the UARS MLS instrument. MLS, UARS and EOS are part of
   NASA's Mission to Planet Earth.

   UARS MLS atmospheric observations started on 19 September 1991, within
   one week of launch. MLS antenna scan problems and sharing the limited
   UARS power available among the various instruments caused measurements
   to become intermittant after 1994. The UARS MLS instrument is now
   mainly kept in `standby' mode to preserve its remaining lifetime to
   (hopefully) obtain overlapping measurements with EOS MLS scheduled to
   be launched in 2003. The data are publicly available through the
   Distributed Active Archive Center of the NASA Goddard Space Flight
   Center and through the British Atmospheric Data Center.

   You are the 77878th visitor since 11 November 1996.

      This page maintained by Joe Waters (joe@mls.jpl.nasa.gov). Last updated 18
      April 2001.
