http://propulsid.laed.uscourts.gov

                          sealclr4.gif (7301 bytes)
                                INTRODUCTION
                                    Links
                         Electronic Serving website
                              State Court Links
              USDC - Eastern District of Louisiana Local Rules
                  Public Access to Court Electronic Records
                  USDC - Eastern District of Louisiana home
                                Related Sites
                            Internet Depositions
                                 DISCLAIMER



                           title1.gif (3793 bytes)

   Hon. Eldon E. Fallon
   United States District Court
   Eastern District of Louisiana

   500 Camp Street, Room C-456
   New Orleans, LA 70130
   (504) 589-7545
   Fax: (504) 589-6966


   [ Orders/Min Entries ] [ Forms ] [ Calendar ] [ Reports ] [ Contacts ]
                      [ FAQ ] [ Transcripts ] [Docket]

                            Current Developments

                                Last Updated: January 14, 2002
   January 11, 2001

     A pretrial status conference was held on January 11, 2002 in the
     courtroom of Judge Eldon E. Fallon.

     At the conference the Court considered issues raised by Liaison
     Counsel in their Joint Report No. 13 including update of rolling
     document and electronic document production, state liaison counsel
     matters, patient profile form and authorizations, subpoena to FDA,
     service list of attorneys, ongoing studies/subpoena to BevGlen,
     third party subpoena duces tecum issued by PSC, the motion to enter
     scheduling order for class certification, and PSC's petition for an
     order securing an equitable allocation of counsel fees and costs for
     common benefit work.

     Also at the conference, Liaison Counsel submitted for approval a
     revised version of Pretrial Order No. 15, which the Court
     subsequently approved. Pretrial Order No. 15 as revised sets forth
     the new date of the Class Certification Hearing and related
     deadlines.

   December 19, 2001

     The Court heard oral argument on the motion brought by Plaintiff
     Liaison Counsel seeking the establishment of a litigation expense
     fund to compensate and reimburse attorneys for services performed
     and expenses incurred for common benefit. The motion was noticed for
     hearing on December 19, 2001 at 9:00 am. No opposition was received
     by the Court either in writing or orally. After considering the
     matter, the Court established a mechanism for creating and
     administering such a fund which is memorialized in Pretrial Order
     No. 16.

     On this date the Court received reports from the Settlement
     Committees regarding their progress on settlement negotiations. In
     particular, the committees have isolated those categories of cases
     which are most amendable to future settlement negotiations. The
     Committees will report again to the Court at the next scheduled
     pretrial status conference.

   November 30, 2001

     A pretrial status conference was held on November 30, 2001 in the
     courtroom of Judge Eldon E. Fallon.

     At the conference the Court considered issues raised by Liaison
     Counsel in their Joint Report No. 12 including master
     complaint/answer, rolling document and electronic document
     production, state liaison counsel, patient profile form and
     authorizations, subpoena to FDA, service list of attorneys, ongoing
     studies/subpoena to BevGlen, third party subpoena duces tecum issued
     by PSC, the motion to enter scheduling order for class
     certification, plaintiffs' and defendants' request for production of
     documents, and matters relating to Defendants' Motion for Injunctive
     Relief. Also, the Court dismissed with prejudice the claims of
     several plaintiffs who failed to furnish Patient Profile Forms.

     Following the conference, Liaison Counsel submitted for approval
     Pretrial Order No. 14, which the Court subsequently approved.
     Pretrial Order No. 14 memorializes the coordination agreement
     entered into by and between Plaintiffs in the MDL action, numerous
     plaintiffs in state court actions and the Defendants respecting
     matters which are the subject of Defendants' Motion for Injunctive
     Relief. A copy of the agreement is attached to the Order.

     In view of the coordination agreement outlined in Pretrial Order No.
     14, the Defendants withdrew their Motion for Injunctive Relief
     without prejudice, reserving their right to reurge the Motion in the
     event coordination is not functioning.

     Finally, the Court met with Liaison Counsel and the appointed
     Settlement Committees for both Plaintiffs and Defendants with a view
     toward establishing a framework for conducting settlement
     negotiations. The Committees will report to the Court regarding
     their progress on Wednesday, December 19, 2001.

   November 27, 2001

     A hearing in the matter of the Defendant's Motion for Injunctive
     Relief was held on this date. Oral arguments were presented by Russ
     Herman, Arnold Levin, Chris Seeger, Bill Colvin, Gene Locks, Dawn
     Barrios, and Anthony Majestro for the Plaintiffs and by Mary
     Catherine Roper, Jim Irwin, and Thomas Campion for the Defendants.
     The Court has taken the matter under submission.

   November 15, 2001

     A preliminary conference to discuss matters concerning the November
     27, 2001 hearing on Defendants' Motion for Injunctive Relief was
     held this date at 1:30 p.m. in the chambers of Judge Eldon E.
     Fallon. See this Court's Minute Entry dated November 15, 2001 for
     additional details.

   October 29, 2001

     A pretrial status conference was held on October 25, 2001 in the
     courtroom of Judge Eldon E. Fallon.
     At the conference the Court considered issues raised by Liaison
     Counsel in their Joint Report No. 11 including master
     complaint/answer, rolling document and electronic document
     production, state liaison counsel, patient profile form and
     authorizations, subpoena to FDA, service list of attorneys, ongoing
     studies/subpoena to BevGlen, third party subpoena duces tecum issued
     by PSC, scheduling order for motion and hearing date for class
     certification, plaintiffs' and defendants' request for production of
     documents, settlement negotiations, and coordination matters
     relating to Defendants' Motion for Injunctive Relief. Also, the
     Court dismissed with prejudice the claims of several plaintiffs who
     failed to furnish Patient Profile Forms. Rulings of the Court are
     recorded in the Minute Entry of October 29, 2001.

   October 9, 2001

     On this date defendants Johnson & Johnson and Janssen Pharmaceutica,
     Inc. filed with this Court a Motion for Injunction requesting this
     Court to enjoin parallel state court proceedings against said
     defendants. This motion will be heard on Thursday, November 15, 2001
     at 10:00 a.m. with oral argument. All counsel in attendance must
     sign in by 9:30 a.m. Additionally, the following dates are set
     relative to this motion:
     Friday, November 2, 2001 at 5:00 p.m.- Memorandums in Opposition
     due.
     Friday, November 9, 2001 at 5:00 p.m. - Defendants' Reply Memorandum
     due.
     Tuesday, November 13, 2001 at 1:30 p.m. - Preliminary Conference to
     be held in chambers for those counsel (or their designated
     representative) who will argue the motion before the Court on the
     hearing date.

     See Minute Entry of October 11, 2001

   October 5, 2001

     On this date Plaintiffs filed with this Court the Master Class
     Action Complaint.

   September 28, 2001

     A pretrial status conference was held on September 28, 2001 in the
     courtroom of Judge Eldon E. Fallon.

     At the conference the Court considered issues raised by Liaison
     Counsel in their Joint Report No. 10 including master
     complaint/answer, rolling document and electronic document
     production, electronic service, state liaison counsel, patient
     profile form and authorizations, subpoena to FDA, service list of
     attorneys, ongoing studies/subpoena to BevGlen, third party subpoena
     duces tecum issued by PSC, scheduling order for motion and hearing
     date for class certification, plaintiffs' and defendants' request
     for production of documents, and modification of Pre-Trial Order
     No.9. Rulings of the Court are recorded in the Minute Entry of
     September 28, 2001.

   August 23, 2001

     The Court issued Pretrial Order No. 12 which establishes a uniform
     certificate of service.

   August 3, 2001

     A pretrial status conference was held on August 3,  2001 in the
     courtroom of Judge Eldon E. Fallon.
     At the conference, the Court considered issues raised by Liaison
     Counsel in their Joint Report No. 9 including master
     complaint/answer, rolling document and electronic document
     production, electronic service, state liaison counsel, plaintiff
     profile forms and authorizations, subpoena to FDA, service list of
     attorneys, ongoing studies, third party subpoena duces tecum issued
     by PSC, scheduling presentation of class certification motion,
     tolling agreements, and plaintiffs' and defendants' request for
     production of documents. Rulings of the Court are recorded in the
     Minute Entry of August 3, 2001.
     Following the conference, the Court met separately with counsel for
     the Defendants, members of the Plaintiffs' State Liaison Committee,
     and members of the Plaintiffs' Steering Committee

   June 21, 2001

     A pretrial status conference was held on June 21, 2001 in the
     courtroom of Judge Eldon E. Fallon.
     At the conference, the Court considered issues raised by Liaison
     Counsel in their Joint Report No. 8 including master
     complaint/answer, rolling document and electronic document
     production, electronic service, state liaison counsel, depositions
     regarding corporate organization, plaintiff profile forms and
     authorizations, deposition in state matters that have been cross
     noticed, subpoena to FDA, service list of attorneys, defendants
     liaison and lead counsel, ongoing studies, third party subpoena
     duces tecum issued by PSC, scheduling presentation of class
     certification motion, sealed documents, tolling agreements,
     defendants' request for production of documents, listing of state
     cases, internet depositions, cross claims/answers, discovery to
     consumer plaintiffs, and uniform service certificate. Rulings of the
     Court are recorded in the Minute Entry of June 21, 2001.

   May 17, 2001

     A pretrial status conference was held on May 17, 2001 in the
     courtroom of Judge Eldon E. Fallon.

     At the conference, the Court considered issues raised by Liaison
     Counsel in their Joint Report No. 7 including creation of a virtual
     document depository, master complaint/answer, rolling document and
     electronic document production, electronic service, state liaison
     counsel, depositions regarding corporate organization, plaintiff
     profile forms and authorizations, deposition in state matters that
     have been cross noticed, subpoena to FDA, plaintiffs' time and
     billing matters, service list of attorneys, defendants liaison and
     lead counsel, ongoing studies, third party subpoena duces tecum
     issued by PSC, scheduling presentation of class certification
     motion, and tolling agreements. Rulings of the Court are recorded in
     the Minute Entry of May 17, 2001.

   April 19, 2001

     Following the pretrial status conference, the Court heard argument
     from counsel on Plaintiffs' motions to strike objections to
     discovery and to compel production of documents from entities under
     the control of defendants Johnson & Johnson and Janssen
     Pharmaceutica. The Court denied Plaintiffs' motions. The reasons
     orally assigned for the Court's ruling at the conference are
     detailed in the attachment to the Minute Entry of May 11, 2001.
     The Court issued Pretrial Order No. 10 which establishes the
     protocol for the production and preservation of defendants'
     electronic data.
     A pretrial status conference was held on April 19, 2001 in the
     courtroom of Judge Eldon E. Fallon.

     At the conference, the Court considered issues raised by Liaison
     Counsel in their Joint Report No. 6 including creation of a virtual
     document depository, plaintiff profile forms and authorizations,
     master complaint/answer, rolling document production, electronic
     service, state liaison counsel, electronic document production and
     preservation, depositions regarding corporate organization,
     deposition in state matters that have been cross noticed, subpoena
     to FDA, plaintiffs' time and billing matters, service list of
     attorneys, and defendants liaison and lead counsel. Rulings of the
     Court are recorded in the Minute Entry of April 19, 2001.

   March 16, 2001

     A pretrial status conference was held on March 15, 2001 in the
     courtroom of Judge Eldon E. Fallon.

     At the conference, the Court considered issues raised by Liaison
     Counsel in their Joint Report No. 5 including creation of a virtual
     document depository, plaintiff profile forms and authorizations,
     master complaint/answer, rolling document production, electronic
     service, state liaison counsel, electronic document production and
     preservation, depositions regarding corporate organization. Rulings
     of the Court are recorded in the Minute Entry of March 15, 2001.

   February 21, 2001

     A pretrial status conference was held on February 20, 2001 in the
     courtroom of Judge Eldon E. Fallon.  At the conference, the Court
     considered issues raised by Liaison Counsel in their Joint Report
     No. 4 including creation of a virtual document depository, plaintiff
     profile forms, master complaint/answer, rolling document production,
     electronic service, state liaison counsel, cross-noticed MIS
     depositions, electronic document production, depositions regarding
     corporate organization, response to document request to defendants,
     plaintiffs' counsel cost and time reports, submission of
     confidential documents, preservation of electronic data, and
     statistics. Rulings of the Court are recorded in the Minute Entry of
     February 20, 2001.

   January 31, 2001

     The Court issued Pretrial Order No. 9 which established the protocol
     for dealing with the Patient Profile Form and the Authorizations
     concerning access to medical and related records. This form and
     authorizations are contained in this website and may be obtained
     from the Forms page.

   January 18, 2001

     A pretrial status conference was held on January 18, 2001 in the
     courtroom of Judge Eldon E. Fallon.

     At the conference, the Court considered issues raised by Liaison
     Counsel in their Joint Report No. 3 including creation of a virtual
     document depository, plaintiff profile forms, master
     complaint/answer, rolling document production, electronic service,
     state liaison counsel, cross-noticed MIS depositions, electronic
     document production, depositions regarding corporate organization,
     response to document request to defendants, state coordination, and
     document production protocol. Rulings of the Court are recorded in
     the Minute Entry of January 18, 2001.

     The Court also issued Pretrial Order No. 8 which establishes the
     protocol for transferring documents that currently exist in hard
     copy format into electronic format.

   December 26, 2000

     The Court denied Defendants' motion to require disclosure of
     documents ten days prior to depositions in its Minute Entry of
     December 26, 2000.

     A pretrial status conference was held on December 20, 2000 in the
     courtroom of Judge Eldon E. Fallon.

     At the conference, the Court considered issues raised by Liaison
     Counsel in their Joint Report No. 2 including document production
     protocol, state liaison counsel, service of pleadings, service of
     pleadings between liaison counsel, and disclosure of documents for
     depositions. Rulings of the Court are recorded in the Minute Entry
     of December 20, 2000.

   December 8, 2000

     The parties heard presentations from vendors concerning the creation
     of a virtual document depository.

   December 7, 2000

     The Court issued Pretrial Order No. 7 concerning guidelines for
     taking depositions.

     The Court granted a joint order concerning the destruction of
     inventory.

     The parties heard presentations from vendors concerning the creation
     of a virtual document depository.

   December 6, 2000

     The Court issued Pretrial Order No. 6 concerning the authentication
     of documents.

     The Court has issued Pretrial Order No. 5 which addresses the scope
     of confidentiality of discovered information.

   November 29, 2000

     A status conference for liaison counsel was held in Chambers on
     November 28, 2000.
     The pretrial status conference scheduled for December 21, 2000 was
     rescheduled to December 20, 2000 at 10:00 a.m.

     The Court directed counsel to confer and select the format and
     coding to be used for document production.

     Liaison counsel will meet with selected vendors on December 7 and 8
     to choose a vendor to create the virtual document depository.

     The Clerk of Court will no longer provide hard copies of pretrial
     orders. Counsel may obtain all pretrial orders from this website.

   November 22, 2000

     The Court approved the Joint Motion of Plaintiffs' and Defendants'
     Liaison Counsel Regarding Electronic Service and entered Pretrial
     Order No. 4 (Electronic Service).

   November 21, 2000

     The deadline for the PSC to submit a list of proposed candidates for
     the State Liaison Committee is November 27, 2000.

     The deadline for submitting a proposed Confidentiality Order is
     extended to November 27, 2000.

     The deadline for filing an Order Regarding Electronic Service is
     November 21, 2000.

   November 16, 2000

     A pretrial status conference was held on November 16, 2000 in the
     courtroom of Judge Eldon E. Fallon.

     Future pretrial status conferences will be held on the third
     Thursday of each month at 2:00 p.m. in the chambers of Judge Eldon
     E. Fallon. The next pretrial status conference will be held on
     December 20, 2000 at 10:00 a.m.

     The Court will appoint a State Liaison Committee consisting of
     counsel who represent coordinate state proceedings involved in this
     litigation. Members of the State Liaison Committee or their
     designees may attend future pretrial status conferences.

     The PSC is authorized to arrange with
     Verilaw Technologies, Inc. for the creation of an electronic service
     system as well as other related systems for information technology.

     The Court indicated that it would construct its own website
     concerning this litigation.

     A status conference between Liaison Counsel and the Court to discuss
     the development of a virtual document depository will be held in
     chambers on Tuesday, November 28, 2000, at 8:30 a.m.

     The parties shall report to the Court on the feasibility of creating
     a master complaint and corresponding master answer at the next
     pretrial status conference on December 20, 2000.

     The parties expressed disagreement over whether documents to be used
     during depositions should be disclosed to the deponent in advance of
     the deposition. The Court will consider the arguments raised in
     briefs submitted by counsel and rule on the issue prior to the
     December 21, 2000 pretrial status conference.

     The parties shall submit to the Court by November 27, 2000 a
     confidentiality order to be used during this multidistrict
     litigation.

     The parties shall submit a stipulation regarding authentication (FRE
     901) and hearsay (FRE 803(6)) to the Court by November 28, 2000.

     By November 28, 2000, the parties shall submit a stipulation
     establishing guidelines to be followed in depositions.

     Defendants indicated that they would voluntarily produce
     employee-witnesses, both foreign and domestic, and that subpoenas
     would not be necessary. Counsel shall confer to determine a mutually
     acceptable date, time, and location for the depositions.

     The PSC shall submit its first filing of Plaintiffs= time and
     expense records on December 15, 2000, rather than November 15, 2000,
     as set forth in previous pretrial orders.

     The Court will issue an order requiring Plaintiffs or their counsel
     to complete Verilaw Questionnaires which set forth accurate
     addresses and other relevant information concerning Plaintiffs, as
     well as their preferred medium for receiving information, e.g. email
     and facsimile. Should a Plaintiff or counsel fail to complete the
     questionnaire and return it to Plaintiffs= Liaison Counsel within
     one week of receipt, the Court indicated that it will dismiss the
     Plaintiff=s claim absent a showing of good cause.

     The PSC shall respond to Defense counsel=s proposed fact sheet by
     December 11, 2000.

   October 23, 2000

     Pursuant to
     Pretrial Order No. 2, the Court received numerous
     applications/nominations for the Plaintiff's Steering Committee
     (PSC).

     In
     Pretrial Order No. 3, the Court appointed the following members to
     the PSC: Daniel Becnel, Wendell Gauthier, Russ Herman, Arnold Levin,
     Stephen Murray, J. Michael Papantonio, Christopher Seeger, Bob
     Wright, and Charles Zimmerman.

     No later than Wednesday, November 15, 2000, the PSC shall meet and
     select three of its members including Plaintiff's Liaison Counsel to
     serve as an Executive Committee.

     The next status conference to be attended by all members of the PSC
     and Defendants' Liaison and Lead Counsel will be held on Thursday,
     November 16, 2000 at 1:30 p.m. in Judge Eldon E. Fallon's Courtroom,
     500 Camp Street, New Orleans, Louisiana. Counsel shall comply with
     paragraph XV of Pretrial Order No. 2.
