http://listserver.sidney.ars.usda.gov

   [USEMAP:Current_Facts_Nfacts3log.gif]


[clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]

                 Current Facts
                 Back Facts
                 Subscribe
                 Contact Us
                 Search


                                  USDA logo

                                                                 U.S. Department
                                                                 of Agriculture

                                                                    ARS logo
                                                          Agricultural Research Service


   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]

                                                  September / October 2001

   The Northern PlainFacts, a bimonthly fact sheet from the USDA-ARS
   Northern Plains Agricultural Research Laboratory (NPARL) in Sidney,
   Montana, is delivered via e-mail or fax and can be viewed here on the
   Internet. Each issue features brief items on research, personnel and
   upcoming events at the lab, ending with a contact name and e-mail
   address for those interested in further details. (To subscribe to the
   e-mail version, see link at left.)

   INCLUDED IN THIS ISSUE:
     * Upcoming Events
     * Sneak Preview of New Facility Offered
     * NPARL Addresses Security Issues
     * Researchers Study Fire/Grazing Effects on Hoppers
     * Remote Sensing of Saltcedar Conducted
     * Grape Disease Also Focus of Remote Sensing Study
     * Researcher Trained in DNA Microarray
     * Rust Samples Collected for Spurge Research
     * Scientists Participate in Agronomy Meeting
     * Hopper Research Featured in Kids' Magazine
     * Ecologist Collects Hoppers in Texas
     * Entomologist Receives Sugar Beet Grant
     * Marigold, Root Maggot Research Funded
     * New CD Available from TEAM Leafy Spurge

   UPCOMING EVENTS
   NPARL scientists are participating in a number of outreach events in
   coming months. Included below is a list of those and other related
   events, their dates and locations.

                NDSU Extension Service Irrigator's Workshops
                December 11, 2001 - Grand Forks, North Dakota
          December 13, 2001 - Carrington Research Extension Center
        For more information: Tom Scherer, tscherer@ndsuext.nodak.edu

                      MonDak Value Added Ag Conference
                              December 13, 2001
          Ernie French Center (Williston Research Extension Center)
                           Williston, North Dakota
                For more information: Chet Hill, 701-774-4315

                North Dakota Weed Control Association Meeting
                             January 8-10, 2002
                             Fargo, North Dakota

                               MonDak Ag Days
                             January 11-12, 2002
                               Sidney, Montana

                  Montana Weed Control Association Meeting
                             January 15-17, 2002
                            Great Falls, Montana

        First International Symposium on Arthropod Biological Control
                     Rescheduled to January 13-18, 2002
                              Honolulu, Hawaii
               For more information: http://www.isbca.ucr.edu/

                                                               Back to Top

   SNEAK PREVIEW OF NEW FACILITY OFFERED
   NPARL customers and stakeholders are invited to a "sneak preview" of
   the site's new lab office complex during MonDak Ag Days in Sidney, MT,
   Jan. 11-12, 2002. All interested parties are invited to tour the
   building site - not yet completed, but enclosed and heated to a toasty
   50 degrees - at 9 a.m. Saturday, Jan. 12. The tour is part of an
   hour-long session designed to reformulate and strengthen the lab's
   Focus Group program. Participants attending Ag Days events Friday will
   get an update of the current research being conducted at NPARL; this
   subsequent on-site gathering will allow those same individuals input
   into future efforts. While everyone is invited to offer suggestions,
   NPARL officials hope to enlist the aid of approximately a dozen to two
   dozen committed individuals to serve on a reformulated Focus Group
   designed to more thoroughly examine and identify agricultural research
   needs for the Northern Plains region. If you are interested in
   participating or would like more information, contact Tom Shanower or
   Robert Evans at 406-433-2020.

                                                               Back to Top

   NPARL ADDRESSES SECURITY ISSUES
   In light of the events of September 11 and the ensuing anthrax
   investigations, NPARL has undertaken added measures to ensure the
   safety and security of its employees and the general public. Lab
   officials recently invited Local Emergency Planning Committee personnel
   to tour the site and NPARL safety officer Jackie Couture continues to
   work closely with county disaster officials. But while officials remain
   vigilant, they also note that the Sidney, MT facility has a Security
   Level One rating (four is the highest), meaning research conducted at
   the site doesn't pose a threat to people living or working in the area
   or to the environment. "There are no human health issues, no human
   pathogens at all, at this facility," Couture noted. "There is also no
   environmental threat posed by the research being done here." While
   NPARL's low security rating could change once the proposed
   biocontainment facility planned for the site is built, that will not
   happen for at least another several years. In the meantime, anyone with
   additional safety or security concerns is invited to discuss them with
   NPARL officials. "Also, if anyone wants to tour the site, just let us
   know and we can arrange it," Couture noted.
   (Jackie Couture, 406-433-9422, jcouture@sidney.ars.usda.gov)

                                                               Back to Top

   RESEARCHERS STUDY FIRE/GRAZING EFFECTS ON HOPPERS
   Research Entomologist David Branson and Research Ecologist Greg Sword
   have recently been awarded a U.S. Forest Service grant to study the
   effects of fire and livestock grazing on grasshopper population
   dynamics in the Northern Great Plains. The five-year cooperative
   project conducted on the Forest Service's Little Missouri National
   Grassland is expected to shed light on the direct effects of both fire
   and grazing management on grasshopper populations, as well as provide
   insight on grassland management techniques designed to reduce
   grasshopper problems in the event of fire. Although fire is known to
   affect grasshopper population dynamics in grassland ecosystems, neither
   its direct effects nor its potential interactions with different
   grazing management strategies have been previously studied in the
   Northern Great Plains.
   (Dave Branson, 406-433-9406, dbranson@sidney.ars.usda.gov)
   (Gregory Sword, 406-433-9429, gsword@sidney.ars.usda.gov)

                                                               Back to Top

   REMOTE SENSING OF SALTCEDAR CONDUCTED
   Research Ecologist Dr. Gerald Anderson led a remote sensing effort
   Sept. 8-16 targeting saltcedar (Tamarix) infestation sites in five
   Western states (WY, UT, NV, CO and CA). Anderson and his fellow
   researchers were able to collect imagery from sites in three states
   (UT, NV and CA) before the terrorist attack on New York City and
   Washington, DC grounded the effort. The remote sensing endeavor is part
   of a larger $3 million project, funded through a CSREES National
   Research Initiative Competitive Grant, to look for new biologically
   based control methods for the area wide management of saltcedar and two
   other invasive weeds found in the western U.S., giant reed (Arundo) and
   yellow starthistle (Centaurea). The remote sensing information
   collected by Anderson will be used to both assess the extent and spread
   of saltcedar in the Western states and to monitor the impact of
   biological control agents introduced to help control it. Currently
   saltcedar is spreading rapidly along rivers and streams and in riparian
   areas, making it difficult to control by traditional means. The weed
   clogs rivers, displaces native willows and threatens the primary
   habitat of the willow flycatcher. Participants in the grant program
   include the Saltcedar Consortium made up of over 30 federal, state and
   private groups, with principal investigators from USDA-ARS in
   California and Texas and the Universities of California (at Berkeley),
   Wyoming (at Laramie), and Texas A&M (at College Station).
   (Gerry Anderson, 406-433-9416, ganderson@sidney.ars.usda.gov)

                                                               Back to Top

   GRAPE DISEASE ALSO FOCUS OF REMOTE SENSING STUDY
   Research Ecologist Dr. Gerald Anderson led a second remote sensing
   effort in Bakersfield, CA, Sept. 15 targeting vineyards infected with
   Pierce's disease. The disease, transmitted to grapes by the glassy wing
   sharpshooter, stresses the vines, making them unproductive and a source
   of infection for neighboring plants and vineyards. During the flyover,
   Anderson's crew collected three different spatial and multiple spectral
   resolutions of the target vineyards. The information will be used to
   help determine whether remote sensing techniques can identify infected
   vines early enough in the season to allow for their removal before the
   disease is spread and to help assess the effectiveness of various
   management techniques. The study is being funded by USDA-APHIS-PPQ in
   Mission, Texas and includes cooperators from USDA-ARS and Boeing SVS,
   Inc. of Albuquerque, NM.
   (Gerry Anderson, 406-433-9416, ganderson@sidney.ars.usda.gov)

                                                               Back to Top

   RESEARCHER TRAINED IN DNA MICROARRAY
   Research plant pathologist Robert T. Lartey participated in a two-week
   intensive training program on DNA microarray in Tucson, Arizona Oct.
   1-14 with Dr. David W. Galbraith of the University of Arizona. DNA
   microarray technology is an emerging field that allows scientists to
   study the "expressions," or activity, of thousands of genes in a single
   experiment, where previously they could study only one at a time. The
   new technology promises to dramatically accelerate genetic analysis
   much like microprocessors have sped up computation. Because of the
   number of gene expressions that can be isolated in a single experiment,
   the microarray technology not only promises to help researchers better
   understand diseases, but can also lead to the identification of new
   genes and gene expressions not previously known. Dr. Lartey - who is
   examining the use of soil-inhabiting fungal antagonists as biological
   control agents for Cercospora leaf spot in sugar beets - will use the
   new technology to conduct detailed genetic analyses of the interaction
   between the beet plant and Cercospora beticola, the foliar pathogen and
   causal agent of Cercospora leaf spot. Similarly, the new technology
   will also allow detailed analyses of the interaction between C.
   beticola and the previously identified fungal antagonists, Trichoderma
   harzianum, Trichoderma aureoviride and Laetisaria arvalis .
   (Robert T. Lartey, 406-433-9490, rlartey@sidney.ars.usda.gov)

                                                               Back to Top

   RUST SAMPLES COLLECTED FOR SPURGE RESEARCH
   Research plant pathologist Anthony Caesar traveled to Europe Sept. 10
   through the 21st to meet with fellow scientists at the USDA / ARS -
   European Biological Control Lab in Montpellier, France and to collect
   Uromyces scutellatus samples at Austrian sites he had previously mapped
   in 1992 and 1995. Plans to visit additional collection sites in Hungary
   were cancelled due to the Sept. 11th terrorist attack on New York City
   and Washington, DC. U. scutellatus is a rust of the noxious weed leafy
   spurge, Euphorbia esula. Dr. Caesar is studying U. scutellatus as a
   potential biocontrol agent for that weed. The samples collected in
   Austria are being taken to the Montana State University - Bozeman
   quarantine facility for further study to help determine at what
   developmental stage the rust will successfully infect leafy spurge in
   the U.S.. While at the EBCL Laboratory in Montpellier, Dr. Caesar met
   with Lab Director Dr. Paul C. (Chuck) Quimby and research plant
   pathologist Dr. Tim Widmer regarding joint ongoing and future research
   efforts. In particular, he discussed potential collaborations on the
   biological control of whitetop, also known as hoary cress, (
   Brassicaceae: Cardaria draba (L.) Dsv.) using pathogens.
   (Anthony Caesar, 406-433-9412, caesara@sidney.ars.usda.gov)

                                                               Back to Top

   SCIENTISTS PARTICIPATE IN AGRONOMY MEETING
   Research Microbiologist TheCan Caesar and Soil Scientist Verlan Cochran
   traveled to Charlotte, North Carolina Oct. 21-25  to participate in the
   2001 Annual Meeting of the American Society of Agronomy. The meeting
   was a joint session with the Soil Science Society of America and the
   Crop Science Society of America. Caesar and Cochran both presented
   posters at the meeting. Caesar's offering was entitled
   "Soil-aggregating basidiomycetes in the rhizosphere of grasses under
   two grazing management systems," while Cochran's was entitled "Effects
   of tillage and crop residue management on soil quality factors in
   subarctic soil."  Caesar's poster discussed the effects of different
   grazing rotations on microbial communities; herbage biomass and
   livestock performance, and grasshopper densities.  Collaborators on the
   project include NPARL Entomologist David Branson and Ecologist Gerald
   Anderson, as well as L.L. Manske of North Dakota State University and
   J.D. Reeder with USDA-ARS in Fort Collins, Colorado. Cochran's work
   looked at the long-term effects of tillage and straw management on
   various Alaskan soil quality factors and includes collaborators S.D.
   Sparrow from the University of Alaska at Fairbanks and TheCan Caesar of
   NPARL.
   (TheCan Caesar, 406-433-9415, caesart@sidney.ars.usda.gov)
   (Verlan Cochran, 406-433-9402, vcochran@sidney.ars.usda.gov)

                                                               Back to Top

   HOPPER RESEARCH FEATURED IN KID'S MAGAZINE
   A study by Research Ecologist Greg Sword on a novel grasshopper defense
   system was featured in the September 17th  "Food" issue of "Science
   World," a Scholastic publication targeting middle school students. The
   item describes Sword's study of the grasshopper species Schistocerca
   emarginata and its penchant for eating foul-smelling skunk bush. Sword
   discovered that predators, such as the green anole lizard, attempting
   to dine on these particular grasshoppers got a nasty surprise. The
   victim would vomit its skunk bush diet whenever the predator tried to
   bite it. The taste would be so disgusting that the predator would
   immediately spit out its intended meal, still alive! The news item also
   describes Sword's own daring taste test, dutifully cautioning its young
   readers "not to try this at home." His results? Grasshoppers that ate
   skunk bush tasted "gross," but those fed a diet of romaine lettuce for
   a day were "fine." The lizards agreed, readily downing the lettuce
   eaters. Sword's original study was first published in the ecology
   journal, "Oecologia."
   (Gregory Sword, 406-433-9429, gsword@sidney.ars.usda.gov)

                                                               Back to Top

   ECOLOGIST COLLECTS HOPPERS IN TEXAS
   Research Ecologist Greg Sword traveled throughout Texas Oct. 19-26 to
   collect grasshoppers for establishment of a new NPARL lab colony needed
   to replace another lost to infection. He was joined by Dan Hahn, a
   University of Arizona graduate student, and Dr. Fabbrizzio Gabbiani, a
   neurologist at Baylor Medical School in Houston, Texas. The three men
   work cooperatively to keep grasshopper lab colonies going and
   occasionally to exchange genetic material. Dr. Sword is using the
   colonies in his research to study aspects of grasshopper ecology, with
   particular emphasis on host plant use and locust-like behavioral
   changes. In addition to the collection project, Dr. Sword also prepared
   and shipped a 100-specimen, pinned grasshopper collection from the
   University of Texas to NPARL. The collection will be used for future
   molecular phylogenetic analyses.
   (Gregory Sword, 406-433-9429, gsword@sidney.ars.usda.gov)

                                                               Back to Top

   ENTOMOLOGIST RECEIVES SUGAR BEET GRANT
   Dr. Stefan Jaronski, Research Entomologist at USDA ARS NPARL, Drs.
   Barry Jacobsen and Nina Zidack at the Department of Plant Sciences and
   Plant Pathology, Montana State University, Bozeman, MT, have been
   funded by the National Research Initiatives Program of the Cooperative
   State Research, Education and Extension Service (CSREES) to pursue a
   "Biologically-based Pest Management for Sugarbeet Pathogens and Root
   Maggot." Dr. Jaronski's research concerns the development of a
   mycoinsecticide for control of sugarbeet root maggot, centered on the
   entomopathogenic fungi, Metarhizium anisopliae and Beauveria bassiana.
   Several strains of the two fungi have been commercialized for use
   against other insects in the United States in recent years. His work is
   being conducted both  at the USDA lab in Sidney MT, and in eastern
   North Dakota with Dr. Larry Campbell, USDA Fargo, and Dr. Mark Boetel,
   North Dakota State University. Dr. Jacobsen has developed several
   bacterial agents active against the root rot pathogens and Cercospora
   Leaf Spot, with an aim of replacing or reducing chemical fungicide use.
   Their joint research will evaluate the interaction of the two groups of
   agents with each other, as well as the soil ecology of the
   mycoinsecticidal fungi. The grant is for the next two years with a
   third year contingent upon progress. This grant follows on the heels of
   parallel funding to the group from the CSREES Western Regional IPM
   Project.
   (Stefan Jaronski, 406-433-9486, sjaronski@sidney.ars.usda.gov)

                                                               Back to Top

   MARIGOLD, ROOT MAGGOT RESEARCH FUNDED
   Dr. Florence Dunkel of the Department of Entomology, Montana State
   University, Bozeman, MT and Dr. Stefan Jaronski, Research Entomologist
   at USDA ARS NPARL have received funding from the National Research
   Initiatives Program of the Cooperative State Research, Education and
   Extension Service (CSREES) to pursue a project, "Integration of
   Marigold, Tagetes minuta, into organic sugarbeet cropping systems for
   management of nematodes and root maggots." Jaronski is researching the
   development of fungal biocontrols of sugarbeet root maggot at the USDA
   station in Sidney MT. Dr. Dunkel has demonstrated that exudates or
   essential oils of the Mexican marigold is a feasible protective agent
   against nematodes, especially in organic agriculture. Their joint
   research will evaluate the interaction of Tagetes extracts with
   Jaronski's biocontrol fungi, as well as determine if there is any
   direct efficacy of the plant material for the sugarbeet root maggot.
   The grant is for 2001-2003 with an additional year contingent upon
   progress.
   (Stefan Jaronski, 406-433-9486, sjaronski@sidney.ars.usda.gov)

                                                               Back to Top

   NEW CD AVAILABLE FROM TEAM LEAFY SPURGE
   Purge Spurge CD cover The latest version of the award-winning "Purge
   Spurge: Leafy Spurge Database" CD-ROM has arrived! This extensive CD,
   produced by TEAM Leafy Spurge, contains more than 800 journal articles,
   Extension publications, symposium proceedings, scientific abstracts and
   other resources pertaining to research and management of the noxious
   weed leafy spurge. The CD is free and can be ordered from NPARL by
   writing, calling, faxing, or e-mailing Beth Redlin at USDA-ARS NPARL,
   1500 N. Central, Sidney, MT 59270; phone 406-433-9427; fax
   406-433-5038, or e-mail bredlin@sidney.ars.usda.gov.

                                                               Back to Top

   [facsline.gif]

   [?md=10|pad=T|dd=B|ft=5&amp;frgb=000080|df=pfacts.dat]

     Hits since March 22, 2000


   [facsline1.gif]

   [Current Facts] [Back Facts] [Subscribe] [Contact Us] [Search]
