http://niap.nist.gov

   nsalogo nistlogo NIAP

   Home Library Services Events Contacts Site Map Feedback


     Search

   Text to search for:
   ________
   Click here to Search

   Objectives
   News
   Services
   Security Testing
   Protection Profiles
   Standards
   Vulnerabilities
   Tools & Techniques
   CC Testing Labs
   Validated Products
   Products in Validation
   Mutual Recognition
   IA Research
   Education and Training
   Projects
   CC Scheme
   System Certification
   Profile Development
   CC Users Guide
   Education & Training
   System Acquisition
   Criteria Development
   Laboratory Accreditation
   Forums
   Healthcare Security
   Information Assurance
   Process Control
   Library
   Events
   Links & Organizations
   NIST
   Computer Security
      Resource Center
      [niapbannerheader.gif]


                                                               About NIAP

          The National Information Assurance Partnership (NIAP) is a U.S.
             Government initiative designed to meet the security testing,
     evaluation, and assessment needs of both information technology (IT)
    producers and consumers. NIAP is a collaboration between the National
   Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and the National Security
   Agency (NSA) in fulfilling their respective responsibilities under the
      Computer Security Act of 1987. The partnership, originated in 1997,
   combines the extensive security experience of both agencies to promote
        the development of technically sound security requirements for IT
        products and systems and appropriate metrics for evaluating those
     products and systems. The long-term goal of NIAP is to help increase
       the level of trust consumers have in their information systems and
             networks through the use of cost-effective security testing,
   evaluation, and assessment programs. NIAP continues to build important
      relationships with government agencies and industry in a variety of
   areas to help meet current and future IT security challenges affecting
                       the nation's critical information infrastructure.

      NIST AND NSA LAUNCH HIGH PRIORITY SECURITY REQUIREMENTS PROJECT
      The events of September 11th have strengthened our resolve to protect
      the information systems and networks that play an important role in the
      United States critical information infrastructure. Fighting the war on
      terrorism will be a multifaceted undertaking with renewed efforts in
      the area of cyber-security. NIST and NSA have recently announced a new
      collaborative effort to produce comprehensive security requirements and
      security specifications for key technologies that will be used to build
      more secure systems for our Federal Agencies. These security
      requirements and security specifications will be developed with
      significant industry involvement and employ the new international
      security standard known as the Common Criteria (ISO/IEC 15408).
      Protection profiles in key technology areas such as operating systems,
      firewalls, smart cards, biometrics devices, database systems, public
      key infrastructure components, network devices, virtual private
      networks, intrusion detection systems, and web browsers will be the
      primary focus of this high priority project. The National Information
      Assurance Partnership web site will be the primary distribution vehicle
      used to disseminate information on the status of all development
      efforts associated with this project. Additional information can be
      obtained by downloading the project description (see below) or by
      contacting Dr. Stuart Katzke, NIAP Senior Technical Advisor, (301)
      975-4768 or skatzke@nist.gov.
        * Protection Profile Development Project

      PARTNERSHIP VALIDATES SMART CARD SECURITY REQUIREMENTS

      Smart cards-credit card-sized plastic cards with a small embedded
      computer chip that can process or store informationjust got smarter and
      safer. NIST and the National Security Agency have formally recognized a
      major advance in the security of smart card technology. The two
      agencies, through their joint National Information Assurance
      Partnership, issued an evaluation certificate on a formal set of smart
      card security requirements. These specifications will allow
      manufacturers to have their smart cards tested to ensure they meet
      certain security standards. Smart cards have to be protected against
      hackers because they contain computerized information.

      NIST and NSA worked with an international consortium of leading
      financial services companiesincluding American Express, Europay
      International, JCB, MasterCard International, Mondex International and
      Visa Internationalto develop security standards for smart cards. The
      consortium, known as the Smart Card Security Users Group, developed the
      security specifications using the new international security standard
      ISO/IEC 15408, which is known as the Common Criteria. A commercial
      testing laboratory evaluated the specifications, which then were
      validated by NIST and NSA under the NIAP Common Criteria Evaluation and
      Validation Scheme. These results will be recognized by the 13 other
      nations who are signatories of the International Common Criteria
      Recognition Agreement.

      The development and evaluation of SCSUG smart card security
      requirements represents a successful industry-government partnership
      contributing to the security of information systems and networks in the
      United States and around the world. For more information on the Common
      Criteria Project, including the completed smart card evaluation and
      validation, go to http://csrc.nist.gov/cc/sc/sclist.htm.
   NIST Centennial Logo

                           NIST Disclaimer Notice
          Please read the NIST Privacy Statement / Security Notice.
         Please send comments or suggestions to niap-info@nist.gov.
      NIAP is in the Information Technology Laboratory at the National
                   Institute of Standards and Technology.
       NIST is an agency of the U.S. Commerce Department's Technology
                               Administration.
             NSA is an agency of the U.S. Department of Defense.

   Last updated: November 14, 2001
