http://www.ofcm.gov

                               [main_ban1.jpg]

          Our Special Projects Link has information about the 56th
      Interdepartmental Hurricane Conference, which will be held in New
                         Orleans, March 11-15, 2002.

       Click here -- The Federal Plan for Meteorological Services and
                   Supporting Research, Fiscal Year 2002.

           Click here -- Tier 3 Program/Project Training Template.

                   [ISMAP:nav-bar.jpg]-OFCM Navigation Bar

   Personnel/Assignments

              Office of the Federal Coordinator for Meteorology
   Introduction: The Office of the Federal Coordinator for Meteorological
   Services and Supporting Research, more briefly known as the Office of
   the Federal Coordinator for Meteorology (OFCM), is an interdepartmental
   office established because Congress and the Executive Office of the
   President recognized the importance of full coordination of federal
   meteorological activities. The Department of Commerce formed the OFCM
   in 1964 in response to Public Law 87-843. Samuel P. Williamson is the
   Federal Coordinator.
   Mission: To ensure the effective use of federal meteorological
   resources by leading the systematic coordination of operational weather
   requirements and services, and supporting research, among the federal
   agencies.
   Activities: Fifteen federal departments and agencies are currently
   engaged in meteorological activities and participate in the OFCM's
   coordination and cooperation infrastructure. The OFCM carries out its
   tasks through an interagency staff working with representatives from
   the federal agencies who serve on program councils, committees, working
   groups, and joint action groups. This infrastructure supports all of
   the federal agencies that are engaged in meteorological activities or
   have a need for meteorological services. In addition to providing this
   coordinating infrastructure, the OFCM prepares operations plans,
   conducts studies, and responds to special inquiries and investigations.
   The successful development and deployment of the Weather Surveillance
   Radar-1988 Doppler (WSR88-D) is an example of a tri-departmental
   program coordinated through the OFCM. Another example of effective OFCM
   coordination is the substantial progress in model development,
   cooperative support and data-sharing arrangements, backup requirements,
   and communications upgrades among the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
   Administration's National Centers for Environmental Prediction and
   Office of Satellite Data Processing and Distribution, the Air Force
   Weather Agency, and the Navy's Fleet Numerical Meteorology and
   Oceanography Center and Naval Oceanographic Office. The OFCM recently
   restructured the interagency coordinating process to better match the
   federal agencies' perspectives, focus areas, and priorities for the
   21st century and, at the same time, reduced the number of groups needed
   to support the infrastructure. Coordinating Structure
   Activities Report Publications
   Special Projects Directions to OFCM

   Home | Personnel/Assignments | Coordinating Structure | Activities
   Report
   Publications | Special Projects | Directions

                               [greenbar3.gif]

               {Climate Information and Services Web Site}
      OFCM also maintains the Climate Information and Services site.
   This site contains links to Federal agency climate information and
   services web sites
   and is compiled by the Committee for Climate Monitoring and Services.

                        {short description of image}

                                 Disclaimer

                               [greenbar3.gif]
                               [anim_ofcm.gif]

              Office of the Federal Coordinator for Meteorology
                      8455 Colesville Road, Suite 1500
                           Silver Spring, MD 20910
                                301.427.2002

                               [emailbox.gif]
                     Send Questions or Comments to OFCM

                        Last Updated January 11, 2002
