http://www.etl.noaa.gov

   Commerce / NOAA / OAR / ETL : Privacy Policy : Security Policy

                     Environmental Technology Laboratory

                          ETL in the 21^st Century
                            Restructuring Updates

     Located in Boulder, Colorado, the Environmental Technology
     Laboratory supports NOAA's environmental monitoring and stewardship
     charter by performing oceanic and atmospheric research and
     developing new remote-sensing systems. To this end, we gather
     experts on all aspects of the interaction of radio, radar, light,
     and sound waves with the ocean and atmosphere. We find innovative
     ways to use these waves to study atmospheric and oceanic processes
     and to probe regions that are not readily accessible by direct
     measurement. ETL program areas focus on a number of different sensor
     technologies and their application to the study of the
     ocean-atmosphere environment. You can view a history of ETL's
     accomplishments, look at some current programs or review research
     highlights.

   * Ocean Remote Sensing: Passive and active electromagnetic sensors
     probe the ocean surface, and underwater sound monitors its interior.
     They do the work of thousands of ships and buoys, interrogate
     previously inaccessible parts of the ocean, and greatly reduce the cost
     per unit of data.
   * Atmospheric Lidar: Some of these laser radars map winds and
     turbulence using Doppler-shifted light scattered by cloud or dust
     particles. Others specialize in measuring ozone profiles. Research
     applications include air quality, severe weather, and cloud and aerosol
     influences on climate.
   * Radar Meteorology and Oceanography: Innovative radar and radiometer
     techniques offer researchers new tools for probing the atmosphere and
     the ocean surface. The most successful ones will evolve into tomorrow's
     weather eyes.
   * Meteorological Applications and Assessment: Remote sensors enhance
     our understanding of atmospheric motions on many scales, from global to
     microscale, including their interactions with complex land forms and
     the ocean surface. Such understanding is needed to improve forecasting
     models.

                           Looking for something?

   News What's New? Search Search the Site Staff Find Staff
   Management Management Information
   Education Resources Education Resources Field Programs Field Programs

   Comments? Questions? Suggestions? E-mail the Webmaster at
   etl.webmaster@noaa.gov.
