http://threecornersat.jpl.nasa.gov

   [jpllogo.gif] Projects: 3CS, CASPER, Planning and Scheduling,
                 Artificial Intelligence Group                  [Nasalogo.gif]

   nothing

   artificial intelligence group [_line.gif] planning and scheduling
   [_line.gif] machine learning systems [_line.gif] jpl [_line.gif]
   caltech [_line.gif] nasa

   [dot.gif] [earth.gif]
   nothing
   background description impact technology status significance problem
   sponsors moreinfo publications the team contacts

       [3cs-individual.gif]              [3cs-unseparated.jpg]
   Single 3 Corner Sat spacecraft Undeployed Stack of all 3 spacecraft

   Background top

   The Three Corner Sat (3CS) satellite project is a mission being
   developed jointly by Arizona State University (ASU), The University of
   Colorado, Boulder (CU), and New Mexico State University (NMSU). 3CS
   consists of three coordinated satellites that will be deployed in a
   stack configuration from the Space Shuttle and will then separate to
   form a "virtual formation." The constellation will orbit at
   approximately 380 km with a 40-degree angle of inclination. The mission
   lifetime is estimated to be 2-4 months. The goals of the 3CS mission
   include the demonstration of stereo imaging, formation flying and
   innovative command and data handling.

   The principal instrument on 3CS are digital cameras onboard each of the
   three spacecraft. A total of twelve cameras (resolution 640 x 480)
   reside within the 3CS constellation, four onboard each of the three
   spacecraft. It takes on the order of 1/30th of a second to take each
   image. Images will only be collected during daylight periods. Nominally
   we expect to collect 24 images per orbit resulting in 2.4 MB of image
   data per orbit. Storage capacity for the images is still being
   determined, but the current plan is to allow for onboard storage of 3
   orbits worth of images. 3CS will utilize a PowerPC 750 flight
   processor.

   AI Technology top

   3CS will be demonstrating a number of autonomy technologies. First, the
   onboard execution system for 3CS is the Spacecraft Command Language
   (SCL) which has been flow previously by CSGC on the DATA-CHASER shuttle
   payload and was used for automation of Clementine and FUSE as well as
   other missions. SCL provides a rule and script-based procedural
   language for encoding robust execution procedures as well as basic
   coordination constructs (locking, blocking, and run-time resource
   management). Second, 3CS will be flying the CASPER [Chien et al. 2000]
   onboard planning system. CASPER will demonstrate onboard continuous
   planning to enable the 3CS constellation to respond to mission
   anomalies as well as validate science data onboard. Finally, 3CS will
   be flying the SELMON monitoring system, to enable context-sensitive
   anomaly detection.

   Onboard planning enables integration of the planning process with
   execution to provide feedback. However, in an onboard planning context,
   the planner is an embedded entity that makes the batch-oriented model
   of planning inappropriate. Specifically, such an embedded planner must
   be anytime and responsive. It must be anytime in that at any point in
   time there must be an executable plan. This means that generative
   planning techniques [Jonsson et al 2000] are less suitable because they
   do not have the "anytime" property.

   In order to address this issue, 3CS will be flying the Continuous
   Activity Scheduling Planning Execution and Replanning (CASPER) [Chien
   et al. 2000] system - a soft, real-time version of the ASPEN planning
   system. Rather than considering planning a batch process in which a
   planner it is presented with goals and an initial state, CASPER has a
   current goal set, a current state and projections into the future, and
   a current plan. At any time an incremental update to the goals or
   current state (an unexpected event or simply time progressing forward)
   may update the planner process. The planner is then responsible for
   maintaining a consistent, satisficing plan for the most current
   information. Incremental changes to the goals, initial state, or
   executed activities trigger iterative repair conflicts with the plan.

   Within the 3CS mission parameters, CASPER will be able to respond to
   activity and state updates on the 10 second timescale. This will enable
   more up to date information regarding the execution status of
   activities as well as monitored state and resource values to influence
   planning. For the 3CS mission, CASPER will be managing the onboard
   execution including: engineering activities (such as communications,
   calibration, power and other resources), science imaging activities
   (including data validation, prioritization for downlink), as well as
   interacting with downlink activities. CASPER will be integrated with
   the SCL execution system allowing for tight feedback from SCL rules and
   scripts to be reflected and acted upon within the CASPER plans. In the
   full paper we will focus on issues in integrating the planning and
   execution in the context of the 3CS mission, CASPER, and SCL.

   Problem top

   Operating spacecraft in a ground-based mode prevents rapid response to
   science opportunities or anomalies due to transmission delays, contact
   schedules, and limited commuications bandwidth.

   Impact top

   Onboard decision-making enables rapid response to science events to
   improve science, anomalies to reduce downtime. Onboard processing also
   enables low priority science data to be discarded, meaning that limited
   downlink can be more effectively used.

   Status top

   3CS critical design review scheduled for March 2001. CASPER is
   currently being integrated with the remainder of the 3CS flight
   software. Hardware is due for integration in the Fall of 2001, with
   software delivered later. Nominal launch date for the 3CS mission is
   Fall 2002.

   Description top

   The 3CS mission is scheduled for launch in the summer of 2002, with the
   software design, development, and integration already underway with
   integration milestones continuously throughout the spring and summer of
   2001. As part of this effort, the CASPER software is already being
   integrated with the SCL execution system.

   The 3CS mission will demonstrate significant onboard autonomy
   including: robust execution using SCL, onboard planning using CASPER,
   and onboard anomaly detection using SELMON. This aggressive technology
   demonstration will provide valuable lessons learned in the long term
   quest for more capable, autonomous space systems for the 21st century.

   Publications top

   S. Chien, B. Engelhardt, R. Knight, G. Rabideau, R. Sherwood, E.
   Hansen, A. Ortiviz, C. Wilklow, S. Wichman , "Onboard Autonomy on the
   Three Corner Sat Mission," Proceedings of the 2001 International
   Symposium on Artificial Intelligence, Robotics, and Automation for
   Space, Montreal, Canada, June 2001. (PDF)

   Contacts top

   Dr. Steve Chien, JPL, chien@aig.jpl.nasa.gov

   The Project Team top

   E. Hansen, C. Koehler, B. Sanders, C. Wilklow, University of Colorado,
   Space Grant

   S. Chien, R. Knight, R. Sherwood, B. Engelhardt, G. Rabideau,
   Artificial Intelligence Group, JPL

   Sponsors top

   The 3CS flight demonstration of CASPER is sponsored by the Thinking
   Systems Thrust Area of the Cross Enterprise Technology Development
   Program and the JPL Telecommunications and Mission Operations
   Technology Program.

   [jpllogo.gif] Questions: www@www-aig.jpl.nasa.gov
