http://nonesuch.gsfc.nasa.gov

                             [nonesuch_logo.gif]

        This is a US Government Computer; this system is for the use of
        authorized users only. By accessing and using the computer system you
        are consenting to system monitoring, including the monitoring of
        keystrokes. Unauthorized use of, or access to, this computer system may
        subject you to disciplinary action and criminal prosecution. Note: This
        set of pages is being maintained for internal communications as a part
        of the DAAC Engineering activity (2015-176) of the SESDA contract (NASA
        Contract No. NAS5-00220).  This is not a NASA public Web site, but
        rather a Collaborative Workgroup System utilizing HTTP protocol as
        defined in NASA-STD-2819 and is for internal collaboration among a
        limited number of people.  If you have accessibility problems with any
        of these pages and are among those for whom the site is intended, please
        contact Randy.  Although this particular machine is not a government
        computer, it is accessible in the gsfc.nasa.gov domain and, because of
        that I am required to include the following information in the banner to
        the right.

                               [btzhsepa.gif]

   Peabody.gif (6011 bytes)

 The DAAC Systems & Software Tasks pages have information about the project
activities of the DAAC Engineering activity (2015-176) of the SESDA contract
                       (NASA Contract No. NAS5-00220).

   MAD Productions

 The MAD Home Page has information about this Government-sponsored Music and
       Drama club, a part of the Goddard Employee Welfare Association.

   [$RandyBarth1.jpg]

 For information about me, visit my personal web site at randybarth.vei.net

                               [btzhsepa.gif]

  What is "nonesuch"?

   In answer to those who have asked, it comes from Big River and thus
   from The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn.  The Royal Nonesuch was a scam
   that the Duke and the King play on the "Arkansaw lunkheads."


                               [btzhsepa.gif]

Author: Randy Barth (Randy.Barth@gsfc.nasa.gov)

Last Updated: 01/30/02
