http://www.nrel.gov

   NREL Photo of Solar Energy Research Facility The U.S. Department of
   Energy's
   premier laboratory for renewable energy
   research & development and a lead lab
   for energy efficiency R&D
   Site, Search and Directory National Renewable Energy Laboratory
   Skip About NREL Links and Go to NREL Address

   About NREL
   At a Glance
   Director's Page
   Organization
   R and D Programs
   Contracting Opportunities
   Employment
   Phone Book
   Visiting NREL
   Webmaster
   Disclaimer
   Security Notice
   National Renewable
   Energy Laboratory
   1617 Cole Blvd
   Golden, CO
   80401-3393
   (303) 275-3000 Skip Main NREL Navigation and Go to Features Research
   and Technology Icon
   National and International Applications Icon
   Technology Transfer Icon
   News and Events Icon
   Data and Documents Icon
   Clean Energy Basics Icon
   Education Partnerships Icon Research and Technology: Explore NREL's
   Current Research and Development Activities
   National and International Applications: Apply Our Expertise in Global,
   Federal, State, Local, and Environmental Markets
   Technology Transfer: Transfer New Technologies Through Partnerships,
   Licensing, R and D, and Work with Entrepreneurs
   News and Events: Obtain Weekly Updates, News Releases, and Conference
   Info
   Data and Documents: Access Data on Renewable Energy Resources, Our
   Publications and Photos
   Clean Energy Basics: Discover What Renewable Energy and Energy
   Efficiency Are All About
   Education Partnerships: Learn About Partnerships With Students,
   Teachers, Faculty, and Schools
   Features
   Photo of NREL Visitors Center with flowers. NREL Visitors Center
   Come visit NREL and learn about renewable energy and energy efficiency.
   We offer tours and host special events.

   Best of NREL
   NREL research teams win three
   R&D 100 Awards. Read the story.
   See more Best of NREL.
   Photo of computer monitor showing results of NREL pv cell analysis.
   NREL Energy Analysis
   Research at NREL goes beyond innovative technologies. Learn about
   NREL's Energy Analysis, publications, partners, and events.
   Operated for the U.S. Department of Energy by
   Midwest Research Institute • Battelle • Bechtel MRI, Battelle and
                                                   Bechtel Partnership Logo
