http://norfolk.fbi.gov



   CAPTION:


   Home

       Feedback

               Privacy & Security Notice


          FBI Seal

                  animated image of FBI Norfolk

                                               Photo of Water side


Link to bInvestigative Programs

Investigative Programs

Link to Media Matters

Media Matters

Link to Community Alert & Educations

Flashing image

Community Alert & Education

Link to How to Reach Us

 How to Reach Us

Link to Community Outreach

Community Outreach

Link to Employment page

 Employment

Link to Police Links

 Police Links

Link to Local Weather/Time

 Local Weather/Time



                                                  Welcome to the Norfolk Division Home Page!

                                      The Norfolk Division is located in the Hampton Roads area of
   southeast Virginia. Our territory, which extends from the eastern shore
   to south of Richmond, includes the world's largest naval base and the
   beginnings of America's colonial history.

     You'll find the nation's friendliest people here, and a welcoming,
   small town sense of community. The Norfolk FBI is part of that
   community, and we work closely with our partners in law enforcement to
   ensure our citizens' safety.

     We've designed our web site to be interactive, and I believe you'll
   find it to be educational and informative. On behalf of the men and
   women of the Norfolk FBI, thank you for visiting.

                               Charles L. Owens
                           Special Agent in Charge
                  Hear a message from SAC Charles L. Owens
                 with RealPlayer Link to RealPlayer web site

                               Stephen K. Yount
                      Assistant Special Agent in Charge

   Special Note: We're interested in your suggestions and comments to help
   us further develop our web site. Simply click on the feedback button at
   the  top of each page to send us your input!



   Photo of Soldiers

      Top Photo: An  view of Norfolk's Waterside, courtesy the City of
                             Norfolk, Virginia.

       Left: The Fife and Drum Corps, Colonial Williamsburg's musical
             ambassadors. Photo courtesy Colonial Williamsburg.

                                  FBI Seal


                 FBI Home Page - FBI's Most Wanted - Norfolk

   Last modified: January 07, 2002
