http://www.portland.med.va.gov

   image of VA medical center    Portland, Oregon | Eligibility |
   Benefits and Services
    VA Medical Center   | Getting an Appointment



                                Text Version

                            National VA Home Page

                               News and Events

                                 Who We Are

                          Patient and Visitor Guide

                              Minority Affairs

                                  Volunteer

                                 Contact Us

   align="center"> VA logo: go to national VA home page

   [spacer135.gif]
   [liverweb.gif]

                                Our Mission:

    Provide healthcare services to eligible veterans

                                 Our Vision:

   Becoming a premier integrated healthcare system that is dedicate to
   caring for veterans and other beneficiaries; providing healthcare value
   in quality access, improved function ,satisfaction, and cost; and,
   being a leader in medical education and research
     * We Value
     * Flexibility and adaptability
     * Continuous Improvement
     * Accountability to patients, other customers, and stakeholders
     * Valuing our staff
     * Learning and sharing as an organization

                       The Portland VA Medical Center

   (PVAMC) is a 303-bed consolidated facility with two main divisions. The
     medical center serves as the quaternary referral center for Oregon,
     Southern Washington, and parts of Idaho. for the U.S. Department of
     Veterans Affairs. The Portland VAMC is located atop Marquam Hill on
   28.5 acres overlooking the city of Portland. The medical center’s major
   academic affiliate, the Oregon Health Sciences University, is connected
                   by a 660-foot “skybridge” to the VA.

   The Vancouver Division, the medical center’s second campus, is located
   11 miles north of the Portland Division in Vancouver, Washington. The
   former Vancouver VA Hospital was integrated in 1980 with the Portland
   VA Medical Center.

   The medical center has established four community-based outpatient
   clinics (CBOCs), located in Bend, Salem and Camp Rilea in Oregon, and
   in Longview, Washington.

   The Portland VAMC supports two Veterans Outreach Centers; one located
   in north-east Portland in a small commercial storefront setting and the
   other located in a downtown Salem business complex located 60 miles
   south of the Portland Division.

   More than 1200 administrative and clinical trainees receive some of
   their training at this Medical Center each year. There are 124 funded
   house officers in 25 different specialties. Other training programs
   include chaplaincy, psychology, nuclear medicine, nursing, pharmacy,
   engineering, occupational and physical therapy, dietetics, social work,
   audiology and speech pathology, alcohol and drug treatment, radiology,
   laboratory, and dental assisting.


      VA Home Page / Facilities Locator / Privacy & Security Statement /
   Disclaimer /   FOIA / Contact the VA

          Reviewed/Updated: September 18, 2001
