http://ora.ca.gov/newsdocs/ORA_Verizon_auditDS_Testimony_1-22-02.doc

   BEFORE THE PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA Order
   Instituting Rulemaking on the Commission's Own Motion to Assess and
   Revise the New Regulatory Framework for Pacific Bell and Verizon
   California Incorporated. Rulemaking 01-09-001 (Filed September 6, 2001)
   I Order Instituting Investigation on the Commission's Own Motion to
   Assess and Revise the New Regulatory Framework for Pacific Bell and
   Verizon California Incorporated. Investigation 01-09-002 (Filed
   September 6, 2001) OPENING TESTIMONY OF DANILO E. SANCHEZ OFFICE OF
   RATEPAYERS ADVOCATES R.01-09-001/I.01-09-002: PHASE 1 REDACTED
   Allegedly Confidential Information Has Been Removed Darwin Farrar,
   Counsel Office of Ratepayers Advocates 505 Van Ness Avenue San
   Francisco, CA 94102 Telephone: 415-703-1599 QUALIFICATIONS AND PREPARED
   TESTIMONY OF DANILO E. SANCHEZ BEFORE THE CALIFORNIA PUBLIC UTILITES
   COMMISSION R.01-09-001/I.01-09-002: PHASE 1 Q.1 Please state your name
   and business address? A.1 My name is Danilo E. Sanchez and my business
   address is 505 Van Ness Avenue, San Francisco, California, 94102. Q.2
   By whom and in what capacity are you employed? A.2 I am employed by the
   California Public Utilities Commission (Commission) in the Office of
   Ratepayer Advocates (ORA), formerly known as the Division of Ratepayer
   Advocates (DRA), as a Program Project Supervisor. Q.3 Please describe
   your educational background and business experience. A.3 In 1984, I
   received a Bachelor of Science degree in Accounting and Finance from
   San Francisco State University. In 1992, I received a Master of
   Business Administration in Corporate Finance from Golden Gate
   University. In January 1988, I was employed by the Commission, and was
   assigned to the Energy Auditing Branch in DRA. During my first year, I
   completed various audits in conjunction with the general rate cases of
   major electric utilities, including PG&E. In April 1989, I accepted a
   position in the Financial and Economics Analysis Branch, where my
   responsibilities included the development of cost of capital studies
   for water and telecommunications companies. In January 1990, I accepted
   a position with DRA's Telecommunications Operational Costs Branch. My
   duties included performing audits of major telecommunications utilities
   and the preparation of ORA's positions in major rate proceedings before
   the Commission. I prepared ORA's proposed rate design for Pacific
   Bell's Centrex and for GTEC's CentraNet services in the Implementation
   Rated Design (NRF Phase 3.) Among other assignments, I was in charge of
   the audit for Roseville Telephone Company (Roseville) and was
   responsible for the preparation of its 1995 general rate case Results
   of Operations. Subsequent to the Commission's reorganization in January
   1997, I accepted a position with ORA's Monopoly Regulation Branch,
   where my most recent assignments have been in the telecommunications
   area of mergers and acquisitions, categorization and pricing of
   partially competitive services, affiliate transactions, and the general
   rate case audit of Pacific Gas & Electric's new accounting system. In
   August 18, 2000, I was promoted to the position of Public Utilities
   Regulatory Program Analyst (PURA) V, and in September 2001, I was
   promoted to Program Project Supervisor in ORA's Market Development
   Branch. Q.4 What is the scope of your responsibility in the Verizon
   California Incorporated (Verizon-C) New Regulatory Framework (NRF)
   Audit? A.4 In D.96-06-031, the Commission directed ORA to perform
   comprehensive audits of Verizon-C and Pacific Bell (Pacific), with the
   assistance of outside auditors. On June 21, 1999, Larkin & Associates
   (Larkin) was awarded the contract to conduct the NRF audit of Verizon-C
   and its affiliates. At that time, I was assigned the responsibility of
   audit coordinator. My primary responsibilities included monitoring the
   work being conducted by the auditors, insure all work was completed per
   the audit plan and work schedule, monitor contract expenditures, and
   process the auditors' data request. My responsibility also included
   attending the on-site field visits conducted by Larkin to review
   Verizon-C's books and records. Q.5 When was the Verizon-C audit report
   completed and submitted to the Commission? A.5 On April 30, 2001 the
   audit report was completed and submitted to the Coordinating
   Commissioner of Telecommunications, the Director of the
   Telecommunications Division, and the Chief Administrative Law Judge as
   ordered in D.98-10-019. The audit report is titled Regulatory Audit of
   GTE California Incorporated and Its Corporate Affiliates and is
   identified as Volume I. There are an additional five volumes, which
   contain the supporting documentation to the findings, conclusions, and
   recommendations found in Volume I. Q.6 Please explain how the recently
   issued NRF OII will address the results of Verizon-C's NRF Audit
   Report. A.6 At the time the NRF Audit Report was submitted, there was
   no proceeding open to address the results of Verizon-C's audit. On
   September 12, 2001, the Commission issued R.01-09-001/I.01-09-002 (NRF
   OII) to initiate the NRF 2001 Triennial Review for Verizon-C and
   Pacific Bell. The NRF OII establishes three phases to address various
   regulatory issues associated with the present regulatory framework.
   Phase 1 of the NRF OII will focus on the Commission's review of factual
   issues relating to the audit of Verizon-C. In Phase 2, the Commission
   will address service quality for Pacific Bell and Verizon-C, and the
   results of Pacific Bell's NRF audit, which is currently being completed
   by the Commission's Telecommunications Division. In Phase 3, the
   Commission will review and revise, as necessary, elements of the NRF. A
   partial list of the elements to be considered in Phase 3 include the
   price-cap index, sharing mechanism, exogenous factors, service quality,
   and revisions to monitoring reports. Furthermore, Phase 3 will also
   consider proposed changes to the NRF based on the results of the
   Pacific Bell and Verizon-C audits. As required by the NRF OII, ORA
   submitted copies of the NRF Audit Report to those parties who have
   requested a copy. The Commission required interested parties to file a
   motion for evidentiary hearing 50 days from the effective date of the
   NRF OII, if parties believed evidentiary hearings were necessary to
   address Phase 1 issues. On November 8, 2001, ORA timely filed its
   Motion For Evidentiary Hearings, which identified material issues of
   fact, evidence ORA proposed to introduce, and a proposed schedule for
   conducting hearings. Verizon-C and TURN also submitted their respective
   Motions for Evidentiary Hearings. On December 27, 2001, the Assigned
   Commissioner, Loretta M. Lynch, issued her NRF OII ruling on the scope
   and schedule for evidentiary hearings relating to Phase 1. The Assigned
   Commissioner's Ruling (ACR) designated for evidentiary hearings ORA's
   issue regarding the ratemaking treatment of the financial adjustments
   recommended in Verizon-C's NRF Audit Report. The ruling requires for
   parties addressing the ratemaking issue, to show that any proposed
   ratemaking adjustment has a clear and direct connection to ORA's audit
   report, is legal (e.g., does not constitute an impermissible form of
   retroactive ratemaking), and is consistent with NRF. In addition, the
   ACR allows parties in Phase 1 to identify findings of fact, regarding
   the Verizon-C audit, that are relevant to Phase 3 issues. However,
   parties may not recommend revisions to NRF in Phase 1 unless the
   revisions are remedial actions that should be implemented
   expeditiously. Q.7 Please explain how recent developments subsequent to
   the submission of comments to Phase 1 issues and the filing of Motions
   for Evidentiary hearings impact the testimony being presented today by
   ORA and its auditors. A.7 As noted in ORA's opening comments to the NRF
   OII, ORA concurred with Verizon-C's proposal to establish a
   collaborative process to resolving issues addressed in its NRF audit
   report. Under this process, the company would submit a Workplan Matrix
   listing all audit issues and its proposal to remedy each issue. The
   ``resolution'' of an audit issue means that Verizon has agreed to
   correct the accounting error(s) or internal control weakness(es)
   identified in ORA's audit report. The remedial action that the
   Commission should take regarding all these adjustments, i.e., their
   ratemaking treatment, remains a disputed issue which ORA addresses in
   this testimony. After submittal of the matrix, ORA and other interested
   parties would meet with Verizon-C to discuss the corrective measures
   and resolution of the issues. For those issues where resolution is
   reached, Verizon-C and ORA proposed to jointly file a stipulation on
   those issues for which the concern has been addressed. Issues not
   resolved after completing this process would be addressed in
   evidentiary hearings. On October 25, 2001, Verizon-C submitted its
   Workplan Matrix to ORA, Larkin, and TURN. Since that time, ORA, and
   Larkin have held substantive discussions with Verizon-C on the audit
   issues, requested additional information and source documents from the
   company, attended face-to-face meetings with company technical experts,
   and reviewed hundreds of pages of company responses to ORA's and
   Larkin's data requests. On November 8, 2001, in ORA's Motion for
   Evidentiary Hearings, ORA informed the Commission of the status of
   resolved audit issues and listed those audit issues ripe for
   evidentiary hearings. ORA noted that various issues had been resolved
   and that additional meetings were being coordinated to move the
   discussions forward. In addition, issues were still pending further
   discussion and/or review of source documents to be provided by
   Verizon-C. Discussions have continued since ORA filed its Motion. As a
   result of these further meetings, ORA and Verizon-C have reached
   agreement on the resolution of various issues that were initially
   submitted by ORA for evidentiary hearings. For the Phase 1 evidentiary
   hearings, Larkin's witnesses are submitting separately their testimony
   addressing the resolution of their respective audit recommendations.
   Larkin's testimony will also cover those issues for which resolution
   could not be reached. The audit report along with all supporting
   documentation is being submitted as part of Larkin's direct testimony.
   In compliance with the ACR, ORA, Verizon-C, and TURN are submitting a
   Joint Exhibit reflecting those Phase 1 audit recommendations, which
   have been resolved, and those which remain disputed. The Joint Exhibit
   contains the final Workplan Matrix. All resolved issues in the final
   Workplan Matrix are indexed to the associated chapter and page number
   in the NRF audit report. The indexing of the Workplan Matrix should
   facilitate any cross-examination of witnesses. Q.8 What is the purpose
   of your testimony? A.8 The purpose of my testimony is to present ORA's
   recommendation regarding the Commission's appropriate ratemaking
   treatment of the audit adjustments presented in the NRF Audit Report
   and as shown in the final Workplan Matrix. I am also addressing
   recommendations regarding the frequency of NRF audits, and the remedial
   actions that should be implemented expeditiously in Phase 1.
   Additionally, ORA conducted a subsequent review and analysis of
   Verizon-C's earnings. ORA's findings and specific recommendations,
   based on the results of this review, are also addressed in my
   testimony. Q.9 Please summarize ORA's position regarding the
   appropriate ratemaking treatment of the audit issues contained in ORA's
   audit report. A.9 ORA recommends that the Commission flow-through to
   ratepayers the cumulative total of the adjustments identified in the
   audit report and adopted by the Commission in the final Phase 1
   decision of this proceeding. The accounting misstatements that the
   Commission finds to be disallowable for regulatory accounting purposes
   should be passed-through to ratepayers as an adjustment to Verizon-C's
   surcharge. The flow-through should be in the form of a one-time payment
   applied as an incremental reduction in the billing surcharges set forth
   in Verizon-C's Schedule Cal. P.U.C. No. A-38, repaid over a three-year
   period. The reduction in billing surcharges should be applied uniformly
   across local exchange services and intraLATA toll services, because
   these are the regulated services that have been affected by the
   accounting misstatements found in the audit. As explained further
   below, ratepayers have been placed significantly at risk as a result of
   inappropriate cost allocations and affiliate pricing practices
   addressed in the NRF Audit Report. A surcredit pass-through to
   ratepayers of the revenue effects of the misstated revenue and expense
   adjustments will compensate ratepayers for the unnecessary risk to
   which Verizon-C has exposed them. A surcredit pass-through will also
   provide a strong incentive to help ensure Verizon-C's future compliance
   with regulatory accounting requirements. Further, ORA's recommendation
   forms a reasonable ratemaking mechanism that addresses the previously
   unresolved problem of how audit adjustments from this and future audits
   should be handled under NRF, particularly if the Commission continues
   the suspension of the sharing mechanism for Verizon-C. This is the
   first case to address this issue for Verizon-C, and it therefore will
   have precedent setting consequences for this and other future NRF
   audits. Q.10 Does ORA's recommendation comply with the three criteria
   the Commission provided in its ACR? A.10 Yes. ORA's proposed ratemaking
   adjustment complies with all three criteria that the Commission
   provided in its ACR. A Clear And Direct Connection to ORA's Audit
   Report The ratemaking adjustment that ORA proposes herein is based
   directly on the issues contained in the NRF Audit Report. Therefore,
   ORA's proposed ratemaking adjustment has a direct connection to the
   financial adjustments, findings and recommendations proposed in the NRF
   Audit Report. ORA's Recommendation Does Not Constitute Retroactive
   Ratemaking ORA's recommended adjustment is entirely prospective in
   nature. A ratemaking adjustment is necessary as the direct result of
   Verizon's misallocation of costs and revenues to its regulated
   California intrastate operations. Simply adjusting Verizon's reported
   earnings, as Verizon proposes to do for the issues so identified in the
   Workpaln Matrix, is insufficient. Verizon-C's proposal leaves both its
   ratepayers and shareholders insulated from any financial effects of
   restatement, because the Commission has suspended the operation of
   Verizon's sharing mechanism since 1993. In addition, a rate adjustment
   will ensure that on a going forward basis Verizon-C will implement and
   follow the commitments that it has made to ORA as a result of the
   collaborative process. Without a financial consequence, there is little
   incentive for Verizon-C to follow the commitments it has made.
   Consistency with NRF Finally, ORA's recommendation is fully consistent
   with NRF. Under traditional ratemaking, the Commission historically
   reflected the adopted ratemaking adjustments, on a dollar-for-dollar
   basis, through Verizon-C's revenue requirements calculation. Because
   the Commission no longer conducts rate cases under the NRF, the revenue
   requirements calculation is no longer available for this purpose.
   Therefore, the principle ORA is recommending be applied in this case,
   is that ratepayers should be no worse off under NRF than under
   traditional cost-of-service regulation. Simply dismissing further
   consideration of the audit report's financial adjustments because the
   Commission no longer conducts general rate cases for Verizon-C fails to
   make ratepayers whole, and will provide no incentive for Verizon-C's
   future compliance. In fact, it will do the opposite. In past decisions,
   the Commission has explicitly preserved its right to fashion remedies
   as may be appropriate to the given problem. ORA's recommended remedy is
   a ratemaking adjustment mechanism to reflect the financial audit
   adjustments. This mechanism provides the Commission a means of
   addressing audit financial adjustments, which may arise as a result of
   the NRF audits. The Commission would not have ordered NRF audits if it
   did not intend to make them an effective means of insuring the
   effectiveness of Verizon-C's accounting controls. Hence, the Commission
   explicitly provided for the use of such adjustments in D.91-07-056. A
   ratemaking adjustment to reflect the financial consequences of audit
   results will encourage Verizon-C to improve compliance in the long run.
   Without such an adjustment, this and future NRF audits will fail to
   have their intended effect of helping to ensure Verizon-C's compliance
   with Commission policies. Ratepayers will continue to be placed at risk
   of being forced to cross-subsidize competitive services or those of
   other jurisdictions. A refund of the Commission-adopted adjustments is
   fair because it also compensates ratepayers for the unnecessary risk of
   cost-shifting to which Verizon has exposed them. Q.11 What is
   Verizon-C's position regarding the ratemaking treatment of the
   recommended audit adjustments? A.11 Generally, Verizon-C's arguments
   assume that any Commission imposed ratemaking adjustments would violate
   the Commission principles on retroactive ratemaking. In its Opening
   Comments, Verizon-C first argues that no further consideration should
   be given to the audit adjustments because the financial implications
   are not significant when viewed in terms of Verizon-C's total
   operations. Furthermore, Verizon-C claims that the recommended
   financial audit adjustments related to its affiliates are traditional
   ratemaking adjustments and are not appropriate under NRF. Verizon-C
   also states that the Commission has already reflected adjustments for
   affiliate earnings in its last general rate case and in its adopted
   start up revenue requirement prior to the inception of NRF. Verizon-C
   further alleges that any ratemaking adjustment imposed as a result of
   any determination in Phase 1 violates D.98-10-026, which found rates
   without sharing to be just and reasonable. Q.12 Does ORA agree with
   Verizon-C's position? A.12 No. Q.13 Should the financial adjustment be
   dismissed on Verizon-C's assertion of materiality? A. 13 No. Verizon-C
   downplays the recommended adjustments of the financial audit saying
   their impact is minimal when measured against Verizon-C's multi-billion
   dollar regulated operations. As noted in Attachment A to my testimony,
   the combined findings impacting Verizon-C are in excess of
   approximately $112 million. These financial adjustments are significant
   by any measure of comparison, and therefore they should not be
   dismissed simply based on Verizon-C's subjective view of materiality.
   Q.14 Is Verizon-C's claim valid that under NRF it is inappropriate to
   make a ratemaking adjustment for the financial recommendations in the
   NRF audit? A.14 No. The issue discussed in my response to question 10
   was raised over ten years ago in the Commission Advisory and Compliance
   Division's (CACD) Monitoring Workshop III Report. As noted in
   D.91-01-056, the report recommended that any future ratemaking
   adjustments be implemented as a Z factor adjustment. CACD's
   recommendation was based on the principle that ratepayers should
   receive a direct benefit in rates from any Commission imposed penalty
   or disallowance under NRF. Limiting ratemaking adjustments to the
   sharing mechanism would prevent ratepayers from getting any benefit, if
   the company's earnings are below the sharable earnings threshold. In
   addressing the recommendation in CACD's Workshop III Report, the
   Commission recognized this potential problem, stating: While the
   report's recommendation appears reasonable for circumstances that the
   parties appear to have in mind, we hesitate to promulgate a rule to
   cover all circumstances. We prefer to deal with this issue, as
   particular circumstances are brought to our attention. We believe that
   parties share our desire to preserve flexibility to fashion remedies as
   may be appropriate to the given problem. With Phase 1 of this
   proceeding, the time has arrived for the Commission to exercise the
   flexibility to apply the appropriate remedies that it reserved for
   itself more than 10 years ago. In resolving Phase 1 of this proceeding,
   the Commission should adopt ORA's proposed remedial ratemaking
   adjustment because it addresses Verizon's compliance problems revealed
   by the NRF Audit Report. The Commission's consideration and adoption of
   ORA's recommendation to flow-through a ratemaking adjustment to
   ratepayers is appropriate, necessary and consistent with NRF. Q.15
   Would the Commission's adoption of one or more ratemaking adjustments
   in Phase 1 of the NRF OII violate the Commission's last decision in the
   NRF triennial review (D.98-10-026) or be considered retroactive
   ratemaking? A.15 No. In D.98-10-026 the Commission concluded that NRF
   without sharing results in just and reasonable rates. A prospective
   refund adjustment does not in any way disturb the rates that the
   Commission authorized Verizon-C to charge during the historical audit
   period. Moreover, the Commission noted in D.98-10-026 its intention to
   assess misallocations and to review Verizon-C's and Pacific Bell's
   compliance with cost allocation principles as part of the approved NRF
   audits.The Commission did not foreclose the possibility to revisit the
   changes made in NRF under D.98-10-026, if warranted: We continue to
   monitor for cross-subsidies. We continue to observe rates of return.
   When we next review NRF we may reverse the policies adopted herein if
   observations warrant. Contrary to Verizon-C's assertions, the
   Commission's adoption of a ratemaking adjustment refund based on the
   findings in Phase 1 would neither violate D.98-10-026, nor would it be
   considered retroactive ratemaking. Q.16 Please describe the various
   changes to Verizon-C's sharing mechanism and ceiling? A.16 In
   D.93-09-038, the Commission adopted a settlement agreement reached
   between Verizon-C, ORA and other parties in the company's 1992 NRF.
   Under the terms of the adopted settlement, Verizon-C is no longer
   required to return 50% of its earnings to ratepayers between the
   benchmark rate of return (ROR) of 13% and the ceiling ROR of 16.5% at
   that time. As a result of the settlement, Verizon-C agreed to make a
   permanent rate reduction of $53 million annually. This decision also
   lowered the ceiling ROR to 15.5% above which Verizon-C would return
   100% of earnings to ratepayers. Essentially, the 50/50 sharing band for
   Verizon-C's mechanism was then suspended in the settlement agreement.
   During the audit period (1996-1998) Verizon-C's RORs for each of the
   years was well below the ceiling ROR of 15.5%. In D.98-10-026, the
   Commission suspended Verizon-C's ceiling rate of return of 15.5%. This
   suspension became effective with Verizon-C's 1999 earnings filings, a
   year in which the company's unaudited return exceeded the ROR ceiling
   of 15.5% by 210 basis points. If the ROR ceiling of 15.5% not been
   suspended during 1999, and 50/50 sharing were still in place for
   Verizon-C, the company would have been required to return to ratepayers
   over $195 million in excess earnings. If the Commission knew of
   Verizon-C's NRF audit results earlier, the Commission may have not
   suspended Verizon-C's sharing mechanism in 1998. For example, the
   Commission continued to retain sharing for Roseville based on the audit
   results in the company's NRF triennial review. Accordingly, D.98-10-26
   does not preclude the Commission from considering the results of Phase
   1, when addressing the issues relating to the reinstatement of the
   price cap indexing formula and the sharing mechanism in Phase 3.
   Accordingly, subsequent to the issuance of the audit report, ORA
   conducted an analysis of Verizon-C's earnings during and after the
   audit period. ORA's findings and specific recommendations based on the
   results of our earnings analysis are discussed in pages 22-24 of my
   testimony. Q.17 What are the implications of misallocated costs? A.17
   The damaging effects of misallocated costs are at least three-fold.
   First, misallocations can result in the cross-subsidization of
   competitive services by wrongly allocating costs to Category I and
   Category II services, costs that should be allocated to Category III
   and non-regulated services. The result of this misallocation is that
   costs of regulated services are overstated, while costs of more
   competitive, non-regulated services are understated. Thus, the
   Incumbent Local Exchange Carrier (ILEC) gains a pricing advantage over
   competitors that do not have the ability to shift costs to regulated
   services. Second, to the extent that the Commission relies upon
   recorded costs for developing the prices of Verizon-C's Unbundled
   Network Elements (UNEs), overstated cost data will result in
   unreasonable rates for UNE prices. The overstatement of UNE prices
   could severely damage the development of local exchange competition.
   Third, Verizon-C's inappropriate shifting of costs to the California
   intrastate jurisdiction, or of profits through the cross-subsidization
   of affiliates, places pressure on the Commission to grant Verizon-C's
   future applications to increase Category I and Category II services'
   ceiling rates. Q.18 Has NRF broken the link between prices and costs as
   asserted by Verizon-C? A.18 No. The Commission continues to rely on
   Verizon-C's cost data for regulating rates for Category I and II
   services. Also, utilities regulated under NRF maintain the right to
   file a general rate case (GRC) application, and NRF explicitly permits
   a utility to file applications for rate increases for individual
   services. The NRF utilities are not shy about asking for rate
   increases. For example, Pacific Bell has filed rate increases for the
   following Category II services: Directory Assistance (D.99-11-051)
   Measured Business Service and PBX Trunks (A.00-09-061) Inside wire
   maintenance and repair rates. In February 2001, Verizon filed
   A.01-02-012 to recategorize its inside wire services from Category II
   to Category III. In A.01-02-012, Verizon also requested to
   significantly raise the ceiling rates for its inside wire maintenance
   plans, based upon historical cost data filed with its application.
   Furthe, on December 27, 2001, Verizon-C filed A.01-12-040 to
   recategorize and increase prices for National Directory Assistance, and
   Operator Assisted Services. The company is proposing to increase rates
   by over 100% for some of these services. Unforeseen requests for
   significant rate or revenue increases may also trigger a rate case type
   of revenue requirement review for a NRF utility. This possibility leads
   to an expectation by ILECs that changes in costs can, and do result in
   changes in the prices of Category 1 and Category 2 services. Contrary
   to Verizon-C's claim, a utility's reported results of operations remain
   essential to rate setting matters before the Commission under NRF.
   Therefore, Verizon-C's assertions that costs are no longer relevant to
   setting prices should be dismissed as simply untrue. Q.19 Are
   ratepayers insulated from potential rate increases due to
   cross-subsidization and misallocation of costs under NRF? A.19 No.
   Ratepayers continue to be exposed to the risk of potential rate
   increases and anti-competitive effects under NRF. Although rate
   ceilings are capped for Category I and II services under D.98-10-026,
   price caps are only a partial protection that serve to insulate
   ratepayers until the utility requests a rate increase or requests other
   changes in service conditions that erode the value of services to
   ratepayers. By misallocating costs to Verizon-C's regulated operations,
   service costs are made to appear higher than they are. Under NRF, an
   ILEC may seek higher rates for its Category I and II services through
   the application process. Furthermore, ratepayers risk paying unfairly
   high rates in the event the ILECs seek a rebalancing of rates after
   having misallocated costs to inelastic or monopoly services. Finally,
   NRF utilities provide essential services and have a legal obligation to
   serve. Therefore, in the unlikely event of a failure in the NRF that
   significantly damages ILECs' earnings, the Commission may be forced to
   provide needed funds through rate increases to help restore the
   utilities to financial health. This was California's experience in the
   regulated retail electricity market in the year 2001. Q.20 Does the
   Commission still need accurate and complete accounting of Verizon-C's
   revenues, expenses and investments? A.20 Yes. As noted above, it is
   essential for the Commission and staff to have access to fairly stated
   results of operations. For example, reliance on fairly reported
   revenues and costs plays an important role, when services are grouped
   together and analyzed by the Commission in order to achieve the social
   goal of Universal Service, or to assure compliance with imputation
   requirements that mitigate predatory pricing. As previously noted, if a
   NRF utility requests rate relief from the Commission (e.g., for an
   increase in basic rates) the Commission may to require the utility to
   undergo a formal revenue requirements review, just as the Commission
   required for Roseville in I.01-04-026. Q.21 What other concerns are
   raised as a result of the Verizon-C audit? A.21 Prior to the engagement
   of Larkin in this proceeding, the Commission had not conducted a
   comprehensive audit of Verizon-C's and Pacific Bell's books and records
   since the inception of NRF, more than 10 years ago. Therefore,
   Verizon-C's audit results call into question whether years 1990-1995
   prior to the audit period, may also include misallocated costs
   affecting the level of sharing. Although ORA does not call for an audit
   review of sharing filings prior to the audit period, ORA raises this
   issue to illustrate the importance of conducting audits of NRF
   utilities consistently and frequently. Also, as previously discussed in
   my testimony, in D.98-10-026 the Commission did not have the results of
   Verizon-C's audit, which may have lead the Commission to retain sharing
   for Verizon-C. Only through well-planned audits can the Commission be
   apprised of the business and accounting practices of NRF utilities,
   which may jeopardize the following NRF goals: Universal Service
   Economic Efficiency Rate Stability Avoidance of Cross-Subsidies and
   Anti-Competitive Behavior Accordingly, ORA recommends that audits be
   required as part of each Commission triennial review of Verizon-C and
   other NRF utilities, and be conducted no less than every three years
   consistent with P.U. Code Section 314.5. Q.22 Please summarize ORA's
   recommendation and explain the mechanism for the flow-through of
   financial adjustments as a ratemaking adjustment. A.22 ORA recommends
   the Commission flow-through to ratepayers the cumulative total of the
   adjustments adopted by the Commission in a final decision in Phase 1 of
   this proceeding. The flow-through should be in the form of a refund
   applied as an incremental reduction in the billing surcharges set forth
   in Verizon-C's Schedule Cal. P.U.C. No. A-38 over a three-year period.
   The reduction in billing surcharges should be applied to local exchange
   services and intraLATA toll services because these are the services
   that are directly affected by the misallocations that are corrected by
   the recommended audit adjustments. Q.23 The ACR states that the
   Commission will determine in Phase 3 whether and how NRF should be
   revised based, in part, on the record developed in Phase 1. The ACR
   provides that parties now have an opportunity in Phase 1 to identify
   findings of fact regarding the Verizon Audit that are relevant to Phase
   3 issues; however, parties may not recommend revisions to NRF in Phase
   1 unless the revisions are remedial actions that should be implemented
   expeditiously. Does ORA recommend any remedial actions relevant to
   Phase 3 that should be implemented expeditiously based upon the record
   in Phase 1? A.23 Yes. ORA recommends that the Commission immediately
   order that Verizon's rates be made subject to refund, pending the
   conclusion of Phase 3 of this NRF proceeding. Furthermore, the
   Commission should order Verizon to begin tracking its earnings that
   exceed its former 50/50 sharing benchmark of 12% in a memorandum
   account (hereinafter referred to as shareable earnings.) Verizon should
   report its shareable earnings monthly to the Commission on a
   CPUC-adjusted basis. Finally, the Commission should immediately
   reinstate the shareable ceiling of 15.5% in the final Phase 1 decision.
   Q.24 What is the basis of ORA's recommendation that Verizon's earnings
   be made subject to refund and that Verizon begin memorandum tracking of
   its earnings? A.24 NRF needs to be significantly improved and
   strengthened to better protect ratepayers. ORA is concerned that NRF's
   safeguards have been deteriorating since the first NRF review. As ORA's
   audit report shows, Verizon has engaged in cost and revenue
   misallocations. Verizon-C has not fully complied with Commission's
   affiliate transaction rules, placing ratepayers at risk. In the
   meantime, Verizon's earnings have increased considerably. Attachment B
   to this testimony summarizes Verizon's historical rates of return on
   assets (ROA), rates of return on equity (ROE), and rate base investment
   for the years 1996-2001(estimated) year to date (YTD). During this
   period, Verizon's ROA has steadily risen from 11% to 16%, while its
   growth in ROE has soared to astounding levels by any conventional.
   measure, starting the period at 13% (1996) and ending at 31% (2001
   estimated). This explosion of earnings has occurred subsequent to two
   events: first, the Commission's elimination of sharing (1993); and
   then, the Commission's removal of the ceiling ROR/earnings cap (1999).
   This raises the questions whether the NRF framework is balanced in
   shareholders' favor, while ratepayers share in none of the economic
   benefits resulting from Verizon's exploding profits. At the same time,
   Verizon's California intrastate rate base has decreased approximately
   $700 million, or 22% from a high point in 1997 to the low point in
   October 2001, the year after GTE merged with Bell Atlantic, and renamed
   itself ``Verizon.'' These financial results appear to indicate that
   Verizon has been exporting both profits and investment from its
   California intrastate operations to the holding company, or to
   corporate entities elsewhere. Under NRF, prices have essentially been
   frozen for Category I and Category II services. Under cost of service
   regulation, or in an efficiently competitive market, Verizon's rates
   would likely have dramatically fallen over the 1996-2001 time period.
   Because of Verizon's unbalanced NRF structure, which favors
   shareholders at ratepayers' expense, Verizon's rates have failed to
   decline while Verizon's profits have burgeoned. Concurrently,
   ratepayers have faced increasing risks under the NRF. ORA's audit
   report shows that cost-shifting has occurred to the detriment of
   ratepayers. NRF explicitly allows Verizon to file applications to raise
   the rates of its individual services. Because of this, ratepayers
   remain invariably exposed to having to pay higher rates for specific
   services. ORA is now asking the Commission to take preliminary steps to
   restore NRF's original balance by adopting these recommendations. The
   telecommunications industry has historically benefited from both
   economies of scale (EOS) and from technology-driven productivity gains.
   Under cost of service ratemaking, the Commission traditionally
   reflected average declining costs in rates through the rate case
   revenue requirements calculation. EOS and technology-driven cost
   decreases accordingly benefited ratepayers in rate cases. Similarly,
   under the Commission's original NRF, ratepayers benefited from
   declining costs through the imputation of a productivity factor in the
   price cap indexing mechanism. NRF also include the sharing mechanism
   and earnings cap, which further protected ratepayers. In contrast, the
   current structure of the NRF has completely foreclosed ratepayers from
   enjoying positive paybacks and protections, while allowing shareholders
   to capture all of these gains. For these reasons, the Commission needs
   to adopt and implement the remedial actions recommended by ORA. Because
   Verizon's current NRF framework disadvantages California, immediate
   action is needed. Therefore, the Commission should reinstate
   immediately the sharing ceiling of 15.5% for Verizon-C as of January 1,
   2002. In addition, ORA recommends that the Commission order that rates
   collected as of January 1, 2001, or as soon as is possible, be made
   subject to refund and that earnings be tracked in a memorandum account.
   If rates are made subject to refund, and the Commission later finds in
   Phase 3 that earnings have been excessive, it will then have the
   regulatory flexibility to order Verizon to reduce its rates, and/or to
   refund its excess earnings to ratepayers, beginning with the effective
   date that rates were made subject to refund. Q.24 Does this complete
   your prepared testimony at this time? A.24 Yes, it does. The corporate
   name of GTEC California Incorporated was changed to Verizon California
   Inc. after the completion of the GTE holding company's merger with Bell
   Atlantic/NYNEX in 2000. Since the time period audited was prior to the
   merger and name change, the audit report refers to the company as
   GTEC/GTE. Herein referred to as either NRF Audit Report or audit
   report. I.09-01-002, Appendix A. Assigned Commissioner's Ruling
   Determining Category, Scope, Schedule. Need For Hearing, And The
   Principal Hearing Officer For The Proceeding, December 27, 2001, p. 4.
   Ibid. Ibid, p. 3. Comments Of The Office Of Ratepayer Advocates On The
   Commission's Order Instituting Rulemaking and Order Instituting
   Investigation For The Purpose of Assessing And Revising The New
   Regulatory Framework (ORA Opening Comments), October 9, 2001, p. 6. No
   other party expressed interest in participating in the resolution of
   the Phase 1 audit issues. TURN has also participated in most conference
   calls, and discussions of the NRF audit issues. ORA Motion for
   Evidentiary Hearings On Phase 1 Issues, pp. 3-7. The revision of
   Verizon-C's reported earnings and other monitoring reports as a result
   of the company agreeing to various audit adjustment only address the
   proper accounting and reporting accuracy issue, but does not address
   the ratemaking adjustment issue. 41 CPUC 2d, Re Alternative Regulatory
   Framework for Local Exchange Carries, D.91-07-056, p. 119, and COL 57.
   Opening Comments of Verizon California, Inc Regarding Phase 1 Issues
   and Preliminary Determinations, October 9, 2001, p. 6. Ibid, p. 6.
   Reply of Verizon California Inc. to Motions For Evidentiary Hearings on
   Phase 1 Issues, p. 3. Attachment A in my testimony provides a summary
   of the financial adjustments agreed to by Verizon-C, and those to be
   litigated. This document was also submitted as part of the Joint
   Exhibit. The current Telecommunication Division was formally known as
   the Commission Advisory and Compliance Division. The CACD Workshop III
   Report addressed issues relating to the inclusion of ratemaking
   adjustments in the earnings calculation. 41 CPUC 2nd, Re Alternative
   Regulatory Framework for Local Exchange Carries, D.91-07-56, p. 119.
   Ibid., [Emphasis added.] Ibid, pp. 34 and 47. Ibid, p. 26 [Emphasis
   added.] 50 CPUC 2d, D.93-09-038, pp. 668-669. D.01-06-077, mimeo, p. 64
   Even though the Commission recategorized Pacific Bell's inside wire
   services to Category III, the Commission approved an increase to
   Pacific's inside wire ceiling rates based upon Pacific's filed cost
   data in D.99-06-053. Recently, the Commission ordered a GRC type review
   of Roseville Telephone Company to determine what amount of the
   terminated EAS payment previously received by the company should be
   recovered in its local exchange rates or recovered from the California
   High Cost Fund-B. (I.01-04-026, Order Instituting Investigation Into
   The Revenue Requirement of Roseville Telephone Company, April 19, 201.)
   P.U. Code Section 314.5 requires the Commission to inspect and audit
   the books and
   re???????????????????????o/oo?????????????????????????????????????????
