http://www.fedsource.gov/pdf/fedsreform.pdf

   GOVERNMENT MANAGEMENT REFORM ACT OF 1994 (excerpt) Sec. 403. FRANCHISE
   FUND PILOT PROGRAMS. (a) Establishment.  There is authorized to be
   established on a pilot program basis in each of six executive agencies
   a franchise fund. The Director of the Office of Management and Budget,
   after consultation with the chairman and ranking members of the
   Committees on Appropriations and Governmental Affairs of the Senate,
   and the Committees on Appropriations and Government Operations of the
   House of Representatives, shall designate the agencies. (b) Uses.  Each
   such fund may provide, consistent with guidelines established by the
   Director of the Office of Management and Budget, such common
   administrative support services to the agency and to other agencies as
   the head of such agency, with the concurrence of the Director,
   determines can be provided more efficiently through such a fund than by
   other means. To provide such services, each such fund is authorized to
   acquire the capital equipment, automated data processing systems, and
   financial management and management information systems needed.
   Services shall be provided by such funds on a competitive basis. (c)
   Adjustments in Reporting.  The Director may consolidate or adjust the
   frequency and due dates of any statutorily required reports under
   subsections (a) and (b) only after  (1) consultation with the Chairman
   of the Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs and the Chairman of the
   House of Representatives Committee on Government Operations; and (2)
   written notification to the Congress, no later than February 8 of each
   fiscal year covered under subsection (b) for those reports required to
   be submitted during that fiscal year. Sec. 405. ANNUAL FINANCIAL
   REPORTS. (a) Financial Statements.  Section 3515 of title 31, United
   States Code, is amended to read as follows: "ยง 3515. Financial
   statements of agencies "(a) Not later than March 1, 1997 and each year
   thereafter, the head of each executive agency identified in section
   901(b) of this title shall prepare and submit to the Director of the
   Office of Management and Budget an audited financial statement for the
   preceding fiscal year, covering all accounts and associated activities
   of each office, bureau, and activity of the agency. "(b) Each audited
   financial statement of an executive agency under this section shall
   reflect- "(1) the overall financial position of the offices, bureaus,
   and activities covered by the statement, including assets and
   liabilities thereof; and "(2) results of operations of those offices,
   bureaus, and activities. "(c) The Director of the Office of Management
   and Budget shall identify components of executive agencies that shall
   be required to have audited financial statements meeting the
   requirements of subsection (b). "(d) The Director of the Office of
   Management and Budget shall prescribe the form and content of the
   financial statements of executive agencies under this section,
   consistent with applicable accounting and financial reporting
   principles, standards, and requirements. "(e) The Director of the
   Office of Management and Budget may waive the application of all or
   part of subsection (a) for financial statements required for fiscal
   years 1996 and 1997. "(f) Not later than March 1, 1995 and 1996, the
   head of each executive agency identified in section 901(b) of this
   title and designated by the Director of the Office of Management and
   Budget shall prepare and submit to the Director of the Office of
   Management and Budget an audited financial statement for the preceding
   fiscal year, covering all accounts and associated activities of each
   office, bureau, and activity of the agency. "(g) Not later than March
   31 of 1995 and 1996, for executive agencies not designated by the
   Director of the Office of Management and Budget under subsection (f),
   the head of each executive agency identified in section 901(b) of this
   title shall prepare and submit to the Director of the Office of
   Management and Budget a financial statement for the preceding fiscal
   year, covering "(1) each revolving fund and trust fund of the agency;
   and "(2) the Comptroller General of the United States shall audit the
   financial statement required by this section.". Approved October 13,
   1994
