http://water.usgs.gov/cgi-bin/daily_flow?tx

   USGS Science for a changing world ;

   USGS divisions, products and search

   Water Watch -- Maps and graphs of current water resources conditions


   Real-Time Streamflow
   Map of real-time streamflow compared to historical streamflow for this
   day of the year.
   Summary tables and graphs of real-time steamflow compared to historical
   streamflow for this day of the year.
                               dwc animation
    Map of streamflow gage locations where flooding or very high flow is
   occurring.
   Daily Streamflow
     Map of yesterday's daily average streamflow compared to historical
   streamflow for yesterday's day of the year.
      Summary tables and graphs of yesterday's daily average streamflow
   compared to historical streamflow for yesterday's day of the year
      Map of yesterdays daily average streamflow compared to historical
   streamflow for all days of the year.
      Summary tables and graphs of yesterdays daily average streamflow
   compared to historical streamflow for all days of the year.

   7-Day Average Streamflow
   Map of the most recent 7-day average streamflow compared to historical
   streamflow for the most recent week of the year.
    Summary tables and graphs of the most recent 7-day average streamflow
   compared to historical streamflow for the most recent week of the year.
   Map of the most recent 7-day average streamflow compared to historical
   streamflow for all weeks of the year.
    Summary tables and graphs of the most recent 7-day average streamflow
   compared to historical streamflow for all weeks of the year.

   Below Normal Streamflow
   Map of the most recent 7-day average streamflow compared to historical
   streamflow for the most recent week of the year showing only
   below-normal sites.
    Summary tables and graphs of the most recent 7-day average streamflow
   ompared to historical streamflow for the most recent week of the year
   showing only below-normal sites.
   Map of the most recent 7-day average streamflow compared to historical
   streamflow for all weeks of the year showing only below-normal sites.
    Summary tables and graphs of the most recent 7-day average streamflow
   compared to historical streamflow for all weeks of the year showing
   only below-normal sites.

   Additional Information
      NWS Radar Map
      NWS River Conditions
      NWS River Conditions Map
      NWS Flood Info
      NWS Flood Outlook

   Map of real-time streamflow compared to historical streamflow for the
                          day of the year (Texas)

                              [USEMAP:real.gif]
