http://cirms.tis.doe.gov/news51.html

                                  C I R M S

        The Council on Ionizing Radiation Measurements and Standards

   _______________________________________________________________________
                                ____________

                                 Newsletter

   _______________________________________________________________________
                                _____________

                           Spring 1998 Vol 5, No.1

      Seventh Annual Meeting to Focus on the Contributions of National
                 Laboratories to Measurements and Standards

   The Seventh Annual Meeting of the Council on Ionizing Radiation
   Measurements and Standards will have as its theme "The Role of National
   Laboratories in Ionizing Radiation Measurement and Standards." In the
   past seven years CIRMS has played an important role in serving as a
   public forum for discussion of measurements and standards issues. The
   National Laboratories play pivotal roles in standards development and
   implementation and in the development of state-of-the-art technologies
   for ionizing radiation measurements and standardization.

   Last year’s annual meeting emphasized the role of the secondary
   calibration laboratories and the accreditation programs.
   Representatives from the programs such as DOELAP, AAPM, and NVLAP gave
   presentations concerning the current status and future directions of
   their programs. This year, a representative from each national
   laboratory will present information related to the contributions that
   their laboratory has made to the measurements and standards area
   including research incentives and quality assurance programs in this
   area. In addition, the technical program this year will consist of
   invited presentations and poster sessions that address the following
   topics:

   Medical Applications (diagnostic and therapeutic radiology, nuclear
   medicine)

   Public/Environmental Radiation Protection (radiochemistry, waste
   analysis,

   environmental dosimetry)

   Occupational Radiation Protection (personnel dosimetry, electronic
   dosimeters, bioassay and

   internal dosimetry)

   Industrial Applications and Materials Effects (on-line dosimetry of
   radiation processing,

   pressure vessel neutron dosimetry, dosimetry for sterilization
       assurance)

   Each of these CIRMS communities has a well-established network of
   national laboratories. These laboratories directly support the
   development of national and international standards through direct
   participation, provide measurement and calibration services, and
   perform basic and applied research and development in the areas of
   ionizing radiation measurements and standards. Contributing to this
   focus, there will be an opportunity to present and discuss papers on
   current activities stemming from other contributions in the diverse
   fields of measurements and standards of ionizing radiation.

   CIRMS invites you to attend this year’s annual meeting. The call for
   papers also invites all that are interested in CIRMS activities in
   ionizing radiation to submit a poster paper and join us in this annual
   meeting.

   Return to CIRMS homepage.



   Supporting Organizations

   CIRMS would like to acknowledge and thank the following organizational
   members for their continued support of the Council:

   AECL Accelerators

   American Association of Radon Scientist and Technologist

   American Association of Physicist in Medicine

   American College of Radiology

   Amersham Healthcare

   Battelle Pacific Northwest National Laboratory

   Best Medical International

   Bruker Instruments, Inc.

   Center for Devices and Radiological Health, FDA

   Conference of Radiation Control Program Directors

   duPont Merck Pharmaceutical Company

   K&S Associates

   Landauer, Inc.

   Los Alamos National Laboratory

   MDS Nordion

   National Aeronautics and Space Administration

   National Institute of Standards and Technology

   National Physical Laboratory

   Theragenics Corporation

   U.S. Army

   U.S. Department of Energy

   U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission


   Membership

   CIRMS is a non-profit organization supported entirely by membership
   dues. There are three membership categories: Corporate - $500;
   Organizational - $250; or Individual - $50.

   Renewal notices are mailed in November. If you do not receive a notice
   by November 25, or if you would like to be added to the CIRMS
   membership list, please contact CIRMS Executive Secretary, Katy Nardi:

   E-mail: katynardi@aol.com

   phone: 770-622-0026

   mail: CIRMS

   P.O. Box 1238

   Duluth, GA 30096



                        A Message from the President

   With the upcoming theme for the 1998 annual meeting being "The role of
   the National Laboratories in ionizing radiation measurements and
   standards", I thought it appropriate to discuss the role of government
   in the consensus standards process.

   The Office of Management and Budget published OMB Circular A-119,
   Federal Participation in the Development and Use of Voluntary
   Standards, dated October 20, 1993. The Circular establishes a federal
   policy applicable to all executive branch agencies. I have always been
   surprised by a lack of knowledge in some federal agencies either of the
   Circular’s existence or of it’s content. OMB Circular A-119 states that
   federal agencies should rely on both national and international
   voluntary standards whenever feasible and also to support staff
   participation in voluntary standards bodies when such participation is
   in the public interest and is compatible with agencies' missions,
   authorities, priorities, and budget resources.

   Throughout my long career with the federal government, I have seen a
   generic willingness on the part of these agencies to adopt or
   incorporate national consensus standards while at the same time
   displaying a hesitancy to adopt international standards. While
   participation in the standards development process is acknowledged as
   important, obtaining management support for the costs involved in such
   participation is often difficult or non-existent.

   The National Institute of Standards and Technology is aggressively
   pursuing cross-recognition among the various accreditation bodies and
   the adoption of international standards. They have recently established
   the capability to provide the International Organization for
   Standardization’s(ISO) X-ray beam codes, to provide calibrations
   consistent with and in units recommended by the International
   Commission on Radiation Measurements and Units (ICRU), and has also
   incorporated ISO Guide 25 and related ISO standards into their
   Measurement and Quality Assurance program.

   I’d like to challenge the membership to engage their organizations to
   support participation in the standards setting arena, both national and
   international. With the advent of the European Community, the United
   States needs to actively participate in the development of
   international standards and to ensure that our national standards are
   consistent and compatible with international standards.

   Robert Loesch

   U.S. Department of Energy

   President-CIRMS 1998



                                 About CIRMS

   The Council on Ionizing Radiation Measurements and Standards (CIRMS)
   operates as an incorporated non-profit organization exclusively for
   educational and scientific purposes relevant to the furtherance of
   ionizing radiation measurements and standards. The general purpose of
   CIRMS is to advance and disseminate the physical measurements and
   standards needed for safe and effective technological applications of
   ionizing radiation, and for protection against hazards associated with
   environmental radiation. In the conduct of its various activities,
   CIRMS brings together representatives from academic, professional, and
   industrial organizations, and from governmental departments and
   agencies, as well as interested individuals, involved in nearly every
   aspect of ionizing radiation. A principal CIRMS activity is the
   sponsorship of an annual meeting to disseminate and exchange
   information, to provide a forum for the discussion of common problems
   and issues, and to promote cooperation and communication within the
   radiation measurements community.

   For additional information about the Council and to obtain membership
   applications please write to:

   Council on Ionizing Radiation

   Measurement and Standards

   P.O. Box 1238

   Duluth, GA 30136






      Medical Applications Subcommittee Holds Workshop on Intravascular
                           Brachytherapy Standards

   NIST’s Ionizing Radiation Division hosted the first CIRMS Workshop on
   Measurements and Standards for Intravascular Brachytherapy on April 6
   to 7. More than 70 US and European researchers, medical professionals,
   medical equipment manufacturers, pharmaceutical producers, and
   regulatory officials participated in the workshop held at
   NIST-Gaithersburg. CIRMS past-president Larry DeWerd briefed the
   workshop participants on the nature and goals of CIRMS. Tom Heaton
   covered the MPD’s for the Medical Subcommittee and asked for help from
   participants in reviewing the MPD on intravascular brachytherapy.

   Brachytherapy is the therapeutic irradiation of tissues using
   radioactive sources directly implanted in, or located adjacent to, the
   target tissue. Intravascular brachytherapy is a rapidly developing
   research procedure to prevent restenosis (reclosing) of blood vessels
   following angioplasty for removing coronary artery blockages. More than
   600,000 such angioplasties are performed in the US each year, with up
   to 50% of patients undergoing repeat angioplasties due to restenosis.
   Intravascular brachytherapy uses a catheter containing tiny radioactive
   sources to irradiate the newly opened blood vessel walls (from within
   the vessels) immediately following angioplasty. The procedure takes
   only a few minutes, and appears to dramatically reduce the incidence of
   restenosis. Medical researchers estimate that up to 90% of future
   angioplasty procedures may include intravascular brachytherapy.

   Researchers are still investigating the proper therapeutic doses, and
   calibration is made difficult by the small size (1 mm or less) and
   relatively intense radioactivity of the brachytherapy sources. Since
   the sources typically use short-lived radioisotopes, accurate
   calibrations must be rapidly completed and the information delivered to
   the medical professionals.

   The Brachytherapy Workshop brought together researchers, practitioners,
   and equipment manufacturers to address the measurement and standards
   requirements that must be overcome to begin widespread clinical trials
   of intravascular brachytherapy. The Workshop included presentations and
   discussions on: the status of and needs for intravascular
   brachytherapy; experimental and calculational dosimetry methods for
   brachytherapy sources; and regulatory aspects of brachytherapy.
   Workshop participants also toured the NIST calibration and research
   facilities.


                                  ISO News

   The International Organization for Standardization (ISO) convened a
   joint meeting of ISO/TC85/SC2 Working Groups 2 and 7, on Reference
   Radiations and Thermoluminescence Dosemeters, respectively. These two
   groups will collaborate on a new work proposal for a standard on
   "Personal Neutron Dosimetry Systems - Performance Requirements and
   Tests". During the meeting, discussions considered how extremity
   neutron dose equivalent was to be evaluated and whether there should be
   a new quantity defined for extremity dose equivalent. It was noted that
   the whole-body quantity H[p](d) is now used, although it is overly
   conservative for extremities. This issue is being brought to the
   attention of the ICRU.

                                  ICRU News

   The International Commission on Radiation Units and Measurements (ICRU)
   has formed a new committee to develop a report on "Measurement of
   Operational Dose-Equivalent Quantities for Neutrons". This report will
   be closely related to ICRU Report 47, that dealt only with photon and
   electron radiations. A meeting of the report committee is scheduled for
   the summer of 1998. Progress reports on all ICRU report committees can
   be found in the "ICRU News" (available from ICRU, Bethesda, MD).

                  Health Physics Society Standards Process

   The Health Physics Society (HPS) is the secretariat for two ANSI
   Accredited Standards Committees (ASCs): N13, "Radiation Protection,"
   and N43, "Equipment for Non-Medical Radiation Applications." The HPS
   Board has established an ad hoc committee to review the HPS standards
   process in cooperation with N13, N43 and the HPS Standards Committee
   (HPSSC) representatives. This has led to several planned changes.

   N13 will assume management from the HPSSC of section managers and
   working groups developing N13 standards. This will provide similar
   operating procedures for both N13 and N43.

   The existing balloting of N13 standards by first the HPSSC and then N13
   will be consolidated into the N13 ballot process. The HPSSC chair, or
   alternate, will be the HPS representative to N13. In this capacity the
   HPSSC review will continue with the vote being tallied along with the
   votes of the other N13 members. The HPSSC will occupy a similar
   position on N43 and other ASCs where the HPS has a vested interest. In
   this manner, the HPS will be represented through the HPSSC but will not
   impact the consensus process.

   The HPSSC will become an Accredited Standards Organization (ASO)
   similar to the practice used by other professional societies developing
   standards such as the American Nuclear Society and the Institute of
   Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. (IEEE).

   The HPSSC will focus on staffing needs of N13 and N43 working groups
   and sections. One planned activity is for the HPSSC to coordinate the
   development of joint sections where more than one ASC is involved and
   developing resources to review international standards in concert with
   the respective ASCs.

   The HPSSC will prioritize and manage the publication of HPS standards.

   There are several reasons for the planned changes. An important
   motivation is to provide working group chairs with a single review
   process through eliminating independent balloting by HPSSC and N13.
   This process has been shown to be time consuming and involved
   inconsistencies in review comments between the HPSSC and N13. The HPS
   is very interested in preserving the consensus ballot process of HPS
   standards through the N13 and N43 membership and balloting. The HPSSC
   will provide a single point of responsibility to represent HPS
   interests, to oversee, and to resolve standards issues working in
   conjunction with the respective ASCs.


             CIRMS/PERP & NRIP Spring Workshop-March 24-26, 1998

   As part of the ongoing effort to improve low-level radionuclide
   measurements, the participants of the NIST Radiochemistry
   Intercomparison Program (NRIP), co-sponsored by the CIRMS PERP
   sub-committee, hold semi-annual Users Workshops. The meetings are held
   to discuss technical and programmatic issues associated with the
   CIRMS/PERP MPD and NRIP for the establishment of a national
   radiochemistry traceability-testing program. In attendance were
   representatives from the participating laboratories, US Environmental
   Protection Agency EPA, the US Department of Energy, National
   Laboratories, ANSI standards writing committees, the International
   Atomic Energy Agency (Austria), Ontario Hydro (Canada), and US
   commercial suppliers of radioactivity standards.

   From a technical standpoint, the workshop held at NIST, focused on
   analytical techniques for the analysis of Sr-90, U-238, Pu-238 and
   Am-241 on glass-fiber air filters (round one intercomparison
   distribution FY '98). The purpose of the technical sessions was for
   laboratories to share information and insights on the most effective
   methods for actinide and Sr-90 analysis. The users agreed that this
   would be a valuable forum for improving radiochemical metrology that
   would eventually cover five matrices included in the NRIP test-sample
   distributions (water, glass-fiber air filters, synthetic urine,
   synthetic fecal material, and natural-matrix soil).

   Programmatic concerns were also addressed at the Workshop. Three major
   issues surfaced during the discussions. At the forefront was the issue
   of assessment of radiochemistry uncertainties and their propagation for
   reporting final results. Participants, ANSI committee chairpersons, and
   NIST scientists gave several presentations. A second issue addressed
   was the implementation of the American National Standard N42.22-1995
   (Traceability of Radioactive Sources to the National Institute of
   Standards and Technology and Associated Instrument Quality Control)
   acceptance criteria for NIST traceability testing. The philosophical
   and statistical concepts supporting the criteria and their application
   for establishing source manufacturer traceability were discussed. The
   standard defines acceptable testing results as:

   [Image1.gif]

   where the absolute value of the bias between the reported value, V[R],
   and the NIST value, V[N], shall be less than or equal to three times
   the total propagated NIST uncertainty, ?[N], and the reported
   uncertainty, ?[R]. Furthermore, the right hand side of the equation
   defines the "traceability limit" to which a source manufacturer could
   claim traceability. The third issue was an additional proposal to
   further amend the traceability testing criteria to include an upper
   bound on the of the traceability limit of 45% for service laboratories.
   The issue was discussed at length, including the ramifications of
   non-compliance. These issues will be voted on by participating NRIP
   laboratories.

   In addition to issues directly related to the current NRIP
   traceability-testing program, discussions were held on the
   establishment of Reference Laboratories. Guidelines for the
   establishment of Reference Laboratories are defined in the American
   National Standard N42.23-1996 (Measurement and Associated
   Instrumentation Quality Assurance for Radioassay Laboratories). This
   ANSI standard envisions a small group of program-specific Reference
   Laboratories that participate directly in a traceability-testing
   program with NIST, technical document reviews and on-site assessments.
   These Reference Laboratories would act as intermediaries that
   establishes the traceability testing link to the Service Laboratories
   through their Performance Testing (PT) programs. The document further
   envisions the accreditation of these reference laboratories by an
   external body. One current driving force to establish accredited
   reference laboratories is the privatization of the EPA Drinking Water
   Crosscheck Program, formerly administered through the EPA EMSL (Las
   Vegas, NV). The privatization of this program, critical to the
   credibility of state monitoring laboratory measurement results,
   requires the accreditation of the PT Providers (Reference Laboratories)
   of the drinking water testing samples. The EPA will have the NIST
   Voluntary Laboratory Accreditation Program (NVLAP) accredit these
   commercial suppliers. The accreditation process includes the on-site
   and quality-systems document assessments (by experts) as required by
   ANSI N42.23 and N42.22. Radiobioassay DOELAP is a second PT program
   requiring traceable reference laboratories. The traceability testing
   criteria for radiobioassay PT reference laboratories were defined by
   the American National Standard N13.30-1996 (Performance Criteria for
   Radiobioassay). A third sector that will be establishing traceability
   testing for its reference laboratories is DOE-EM for its remediation
   work. It is anticipated that traceability testing for the reference
   laboratories for these three sectors will be initiated within the next
   12 months.

   Contact: Michael Schultz and Kenneth G.W. Inn (NIST)



   Newsletter and Homepage Contributions

   Your newsletter comments and contributions are welcome. Also any
   suggestions or contributions to the CIRMS Homepage are welcome. Please
   send them to the editor at cassonwh@lanl.gov or by mail to William H.
   Casson, MS-G761, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, NM 87545.


   Return to CIRMS homepage.
