http://cac.ca.gov/secondary_page/calendar/Calendar.htm

   [calendar_title.gif]

   January 2002
     * January 31, 2002
       Media Arts In Architecture:An Evening with Joe Rosa, Stanley
       Saitowitz and Phil Bernstein
       (an SFMOMA and SMAC conversation), San Francisco Museum of Modern
       Art, 151 Third Street

   The San Francisco Media Arts Council (SMAC) will host a discussion and
   exhibit, at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, exploring the
   relationship between digital media and architecture. This SMAC event
   brings together media artists, architects, academics, industry
   pioneers, designers and technologists. The event’s highlight is a panel
   discussion featuring three influential leaders in architecture, design,
   and industry. In addition to this insightful discussion, the panelists
   and others will provide informal demonstrations of cutting-edge
   computer programs and designs created as a result of the convergence of
   new media arts and architectural practice.

   The panel discussion will be moderated by SMAC’s Linda Jacobson, and
   panelist include: Joe Rosa, the new curator of SFMOMA's Department of
   Architecture & Design, and previously curator of the Heinz
   Architectural Center at Pittsburgh's Carnegie Museum of Art, where he
   curated "Folds, Blobs, and Boxes: Architecture in the Digital Era."
   Stanley Saitowitz, an award winning architect based in San Francisco,
   and a Professor of Architecture at UC Berkeley. And architect and Yale
   University School of Architecture lecturer, Phil Bernstein, vice
   president of Autodesk, Inc., where he is setting the company's future
   direction for technology tools and digital data generation.

   San Francisco Media Arts Council (SMAC)is a group of new media experts
   and enthusiasts who produce events, publications and special programs
   to enhance the experience of new media in the arts. SMAC’s goal is to
   cultivate the incredible wealth of art and technological resources in
   the San Francisco Bay Area, fostering a closer relationship between the
   technology and art communities. To strengthen this link, SMAC is also
   working toward establishing an artist-in-residence program.

   Admission is free, but limited. Advance reservations are required.
   Reserve your space before Monday, January 28, by emailing
   mediaarts@sfmoma.org or calling (415) 537-4130.

   February 2002
     * February 1-3
       The Lenaea Festival
       California State University, Sacramento
       Department of Theatre and Dance, 6000 J Street
       The Lenaea Festival is please to announce it will host 58 one act
       plays,
       258 monologues, and 124 duets in three days including 14 student
       original
       one act plays, 24 student directed one act plays, 32 student
       designers,
       2 student original musical scores, 19 student original monologues,
       and six
       student original duets.
       Day pass: $5.00; weekend pass: $10.00. Information: (916) 278-6702
       Passes will be available at the University Theatre Box office
       during the festival.
     * February 12
       Lincoln's Birthday- State Holiday - office closed
     * February 18
       President's Day - State Holiday - office closed
     * February 19-21
       Artist Fellowship, Poetry - Panel Review
     * February 26-28
       Artist in Schools Panel Review

   March 2002
     * March 11 - 1:00 p.m.
       ARTS ADVOCACY DAY: THE 2002 ARTS ACTION SUMMIT
       Can't make it to Washington, DC for Arts Advocacy Day? You can
       still participate! Join us from the convenience of your own office
       for the Arts Advocacy Day Audioconference. This audioconference
       will include legislative briefings on appropriations for the
       federal cultural agencies, arts education, and tax issues.
       Registration costs $75. (202) 371.2830 or e-mail:
       events@artsusa.org.

     * March 14
       California Arts Council - Public meeting (Northern California
       location)
       Open to the public.

     * March 5
       Primary Election Day - Vote!

   April 2002
     * April 1
       Cesar Chavez Day Observed- State Holiday - office closed

     * April 4 - 6
       State of the Arts: A Symposium on Electronic Literature
       Host: The University of California at Los Angeles
       Sponsor: Electronic Literature Organization
       With special guest speakers Robert Coover, Katherine Hayles and
       Jason Epstein.

     * April 25
       California Arts Council - Public meeting (Southern California
       location)
       Open to the public.

   May 2002
     * May 27
       Memorial Day Observed- State Holiday - office closed

   June 2002
     * June 6
       California Arts Council - Public meeting (Northern California
       location)
       Open to the public.

   July 2002
     * July 4
       Independence Day Observed- State Holiday - office closed.

     * July 25
       California Arts Council - Public meeting (Southern California
       location)
       Open to the public.

   August 2002

   September 2002
     * September 2
       Labor Day - State Holiday - office closed.

     * September 12
       California Arts Council - Public meeting (Northern California
       location)
       Open to the public.

   October 2002
     * October 14
       Columbus Day - State Holiday - office closed.
     * October 21 - Last day to register to vote for the November 5
       General Election

   November 2002
     * November 11
       Veteran's Day - State Holiday - office closed.
     * November 14
       California Arts Council - Public meeting (Southern California
       location)
       Open to the public.

     * November 25 - 26
       Thanksgiving- State Holiday - office closed.

   December 2002
     * December 25
       Christmas - State Holiday - office closed.
