http://www.info.gov/workplace.htm


     Image of Federal Consumer Information Center star linking to the
   Federal Consumer Information Center web site
   Red button linking to National Contact Center's home page
   Red button linking to the Consumer Action Handbook
   Red button linking to www.kids.gov page
   Red button linking to the federal phone directories page
   Red button linking to the toll free phone directories page

                               Popular Topics
   Congress
   Consumer Topics
   Recalls
   Freedom of Information Act
   Federal Employment
   Privacy Act
   Medicare and Medicaid
   Federal Grants
   Federal Loans
   Savings Bonds
   Government Publications
   The Draft
   Finding Military Personnel
   Social Security
   Passports/Travel Abroad
   Workplace Issues
   Presidential Greetings
   Order a Flag

     Image linking to FirstGov "Your first click to the U.S. Government"
                               Text Version
                                 Site Map
                              Privacy Policy
                            Security Statement

         Title bar linking to National Contact Center's Home page.

                             Work Place Issues

     | Pay & Compensation | Discrimination  | Medical Leave | On-the-Job
                                  Safety |
           | Lunch & Other Breaks | Pension | Workplace Posters |

   As with many consumer issues, State governments often offer protection
   and advice to workers in lieu of or in addition to the Federal
   Government. If you’re unsure which agency in your State would handle a
   particular issue, you may call the National Contact Center toll-free at
   1-800-688-9889 (For TTY users, call : 1-800-326-2996), or you may visit
   our State and Local Government Section.

                            Pay and Compensation

   Minimum Wage and Pay for Hours Worked:

   The Department of Labor’s Wage and Hour Division enforces the Federal
   minimum wage. This minimum wage was raised on September 1, 1997, to
   $5.15 per hour. The Wage and Hour Division can also assist you if you
   have not received pay for hours worked as required under Federal law.

   Workers Compensation Programs:

   Most private-sector employees who have been hurt on the job should
   contact their State workers compensation office to inquire about
   receiving benefits.

   Federal employees should contact the Office of Workers Compensation
   Programs.

   Injured workers who may be eligible for the coal-mine, longshore, or
   harborworkers compensation should also contact the Office of Workers
   Compensation Programs to inquire about possible benefits.

   Unemployment Insurance Payments and Employment Assistance:

   Although some benefits and special programs (veterans, bonding, etc.)
   are mandated by the Federal Government, people who are unemployed or
   underemployed should contact their closest State or local employment
   services office to inquire about possible payments and other services.

                               Discrimination

   Private-sector employees who have been discriminated against in the
   workplace or have not been hired for a job or terminated due to age ,
   race or color, religion, marital status, pregnancy , disability, or who
   have been a victim of sexual harassment in the workplace should contact
   the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) for complaint
   procedures. In many cases, the EEOC has approved State and local
   government agencies to handle their complaints for them. These
   non-Federal offices often have significantly smaller backlogs of work
   and process complaints more readily. They offer the same protection
   under the law as does the EEOC. If you are unsure whether your local
   fair-employment office has been approved by the EEOC, you may check
   with the EEOC via its toll-free number, 800-669-4000 (TTY users, call:
   800-669-6820), or check with our National Contact Center by calling
   toll-free 1-800-688-9889 (TDD/TTY users, call: 1-800-326-2996).

   Federal employees who encounter discrimination on the job should
   contact their own agency’s equal employment opportunity office, often a
   part of the agency’s personnel office.

                          Family Medical Leave Act

   The Family Medical Leave Act was signed into law in 1993 and provides
   certain employees with the option of taking 12 weeks of unpaid leave
   from their job due to a family or medical reason.

                              On-the-Job Safety

   The Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) is responsible
   for most workplace safety nationwide. Enforcement of OSHA rules or
   stricter rules may be handled - depending on the State - by OSHA, by
   either OSHA or the State authority, or by the State authority. The
   enforcement of some safety rules, particularly in the mining and
   transportation industries, may be handled exclusively by specific
   Federal authorities. You may contact your State’s occupational safety
   office or the closest OSHA office to see if your situation is covered
   by State or Federal law, as well as how and with which office to file a
   complaint about unsafe conditions.

                           Lunch and Other Breaks

   Some States have provisions for break times in their labor codes.
   Unless taking breaks is a safety issue (e.g., for some transportation
   workers), you should contact your State’s labor office for information
   about this subject.

                             Pension Information

   At least three Federal agencies have rules regarding pension plans of
   private companies. An agency other than the three listed below may
   handle a specific issue that concerns you. If you’re not sure, feel
   free to call the Federal Information Center.

   The Department of Labor’s Pension and Welfare Benefits Administration
   enforces provisions mandated under ERISA concerning pension plans.
   These provisions refer primarily to the proper administration of the
   plans, including reports to participants.

   The Internal Revenue Service is, in general, responsible for vesting,
   participation, and other standards of private pension plans. Check with
   their toll-free number, 1-800-829-1040 (TTY: 800-829-4059) for more
   information.

   The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation guarantees payment of
   non-forfeitable pension benefits in plans that it covers.

                              Workplace Posters

   Federal laws require several posters to be displayed in the workplace.
   As always, State laws may require additional posters to be displayed in
   addition to or instead of the posters mentioned below.

   If your computer can read .pdf files, you can download some of the
   posters that deal with the minimum wages, polygraphs, and family leave
   from the Wage and Hour Division.

   You may have to request most of the posters directly from the
   responsible agencies. Ask for the required Federal contracts poster at
   your closest office of the Wage and Hour Division. Ask for the Equal
   Employment Opportunity poster and the Americans with Disabilities Act
   poster at the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. And, ask for the
   required safety poster at the Occupational Safety and Health
   Administration.

   Last Updated: October 26, 2001

                 Logo of the General Services Administration
   This service is provided by the Federal Consumer Information Center of
     the U.S. General Services Administration. If you have a comment or
                question, e-mail us at catalog.pueblo@gsa.gov
