http://cwc.anl.gov/ch8.htm



   CHAPTER 8

      ROUTINE INSPECTIONS I -- SELECTION OF SITES AND ARRANGEMENTS FOR
                                 INSPECTORS

                                                                      [cwc.jpg]

      Table Of Contents

      CHAPTER 1 -- GIVING THE CWC FORCE AND EFFECT
      CHAPTER 2 -- THE NATIONAL AUTHORITY
      CHAPTER 3 -- DESTRUCTION OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS AND PRODUCTION FACILITIES
      CHAPTER 4 -- RESTRICTIONS ON CHEMICALS
      CHAPTER 5 -- PENAL LEGISLATION
      CHAPTER 6 -- LEGAL ASSISTANCE AND COOPERATION
      CHAPTER 7 -- DECLARATIONS

      CHAPTER 8 -- ROUTINE INSPECTIONS I -- SELECTION OF SITES AND
      ARRANGEMENTS FOR INSPECTORS
      8.1 Purposes and Characteristics of CWC Inspections

      8.1.1 Schedule 1 Facilities
          8.1.2 Schedule 2 Facilities
          8.1.3 Schedule 3 Facilities
          8.1.4 Other Chemical Production Facilities

      8.2. State Party Implementation Options: Selection and Treatment of
      Inspectors
      8.2.1 Designation of and Objection to Inspectors
          8.2.2 Visas
          8.2.3 Privileges and Immunities
          8.2.4 Approved Equipment
          8.2.5 Entry and Transit

      8.2.5.1 Designating Points of Entry
          8.2.5.2 Transit to Inspection Site
          8.2.5.3 Use of Non-Scheduled Aircraft

   8.2.6 Amenities
   Conclusions CHAPTER 9 -- ROUTINE INSPECTIONS II -- ACCESS TO FACILITIES
   AND CONDUCT OF INSPECTIONS
   CHAPTER 10 -- CHALLENGE INSPECTIONS
   CHAPTER 11 -- CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
   CHAPTER 12 -- REMEDIES
   Appendix A -- Chemical Weapons Convention Prototype Implementing
   Statute
   Appendix B -- Table of CWC Implementing Legislation


                                  CHAPTER 8
     __________________________________________________________________

                          ROUTINE INSPECTIONS I --

                           SELECTION OF SITES AND

                         ARRANGEMENTS FOR INSPECTORS

   The CWC's on-site verification inspections are the most comprehensive
   and intrusive verification measures of any arms control treaty in
   history. This Chapter (as well as the next two Chapters) assesses the
   implications of this unprecedented inspection scheme and presents
   options for States Parties to consider in order to make compliance
   easier and more effective.

   This Chapter briefly explains routine inspections of declared chemical
   facilities. Thereafter, it discusses how international inspectors will
   be selected and will carry out their duties within a State Party's
   territory. Chapter 9 discusses legal issues raised by the conduct of
   inspections and the legal rights of private facility owners and
   personnel. Chapter 10 examines challenge inspections, focusing on the
   unique legal issues pertaining to this arms control innovation.
                     ___________________________________

                Table Of Contents | Back to Start of Chapter

   8.1 Purposes and Characteristics of CWC Inspections

   This discussion focuses on systematic inspections of Schedule 1
   facilities and routine inspections of Schedule 2, 3, and "other"
   chemical facilities. (The CWC also calls for systematic verification of
   chemical weapons and their production facilities through on-site
   inspection and monitoring with on-site instruments, discussed briefly
   in Chapter 3 on chemical weapons destruction.) Facilities that produce,
   process, or consume scheduled chemicals are subject to routine
   inspection in order to deter violations without hampering States
   Parties' economic or technological development,^(116) and to compile
   sufficient accurate information to permit a high degree of accord among
   States Parties as to what conduct constitutes a violation. The more
   specific purpose of a routine inspection depends on the type of plant
   site being inspected.

   The CWC obligations and provisions concerning routine inspections are
   extensive and complex and vary greatly depending on the type of
   facility being inspected. The material in this Chapter does not
   comprehensively treat all these obligations and procedures. To
   understand how a particular type of inspection may be conducted
   requires review of the specific CWC inspection obligation. The detailed
   procedures for all types of inspections are contained in the
   Verification Annex. Part II of the Verification Annex includes
   provisions that "shall apply to all inspections . . . except where the
   provisions of this Part differ from the provisions set forth for the
   specific types of inspections in Parts III to XI of [the Verification
   Annex], in which case the latter provisions shall take
   precedence."^(117) Parts III to IX contain inspection procedures unique
   to each type of inspection.

   8.1.1 Schedule 1 Facilities

   Schedule 1 facilities will be subject to systematic verification. Each
   facility will be initially inspected to verify declared information and
   to plan future verification activities at the site. Thereafter, a
   facility agreement, based on a model agreement, will specify
   arrangements to govern inspections at that facility. The CWC provides
   that a State Party is entitled to 24 hours notice of a systematic
   inspection (for initial inspections, the notice period is 72 hours).
   The frequency, intensity, duration, timing, and mode of a particular
   facility's inspection will be based on the risk to the CWC's "object
   and purpose" posed by the relevant chemicals, the characteristics of
   the facility, and the nature of the activities carried out there.^(118)
   Continuous monitoring instruments and systems may be installed; each
   State Party must provide the necessary preparation and support for
   those instruments.^(119) One purpose of systematic inspections is to
   verify correct functioning of the monitoring system.^(120)

   8.1.2 Schedule 2 Facilities

   Each State Party must subject each facility having Schedule 2 chemicals
   to an initial inspection preferably within three years after CWC entry
   into force,^(121) during which a draft facility agreement for the plant
   site will be prepared unless the inspected State Party and the
   Technical Secretariat agree that it is not needed. Thereafter, routine
   inspections will be conducted to verify that annual declarations are
   accurate and that no Schedule 1 chemicals are at the site. Verification
   will be performed at the declared plant sites which comprise one or
   more plants that produced, processed, or consumed during any of the
   previous three calendar years or are anticipated to produce, process,
   or consume in the next year any declarable quantity of a Schedule 2
   chemical.^(122)

   The frequency and intensity of subsequent inspections will be
   determined according to: (1) the toxicity of the scheduled chemicals
   and of end-products produced with them, if any; (2) the quantity of the
   scheduled chemicals typically stored at the facility; (3) the quantity
   of feedstock chemicals for the scheduled chemicals typically stored at
   the facility; (4) the facility's production capacity; and (5) the
   capability and convertibility for initiating production, storage, and
   filling of toxic chemicals at the facility.^(123) As with Schedule 1
   facilities, selection of particular Schedule 2 facilities for
   inspection will be based on the risk to the CWC's object and purpose
   posed by the relevant chemicals, the facility's characteristics, and
   the nature of the activities carried out there.^(124) A particular
   facility will be selected for inspection so as to preclude prediction
   of exactly when it will be inspected, but no facility shall receive
   more than two routine inspections per calendar year.^(125)

   The Technical Secretariat must notify an inspected State Party of an
   inspection at least 48 hours before the inspection team's arrival at
   the inspected plant site.^(126) Furthermore, the inspection may not
   last more than 96 hours unless the inspection team and the inspected
   State Party agree to an extension.^(127) The inspections will focus on
   the declared Schedule 2 plant(s) within the declared plant site.^(128)
   If the inspection team requests access to other parts of the plant site
   in order to clarify ambiguities that arise during an inspection, the
   inspected State Party must grant access in accordance with the facility
   agreement, or, in the absence of a facility agreement, in accordance
   with the rules of managed access in a challenge inspection.^(129) In
   conducting verification activities, the inspection team must avoid
   undue intrusion into the State Party's chemical activities and must
   strictly observe the Director General's inspection mandate.^(130)
   Finally, "[d]etailed procedures for the conduct of inspections shall be
   developed for inclusion in an inspection manual by the Technical
   Secretariat, taking into account guidelines to be considered and
   approved by the Conference pursuant to Article VIII, para.
   21(i)."^(131)

   8.1.3 Schedule 3 Facilities

   Each State Party must subject to inspections declared Schedule 3 plant
   sites "which produced during the previous calendar year or are
   anticipated to produce in the next calendar year in excess of 200
   tonnes aggregate of any Schedule 3 chemical above the declaration
   threshold of 30 tonnes."^(132) Plant sites will be randomly selected
   for inspection based on: (1) equitable geographical distribution of
   inspections; and (2) the information on the declared plant sites
   available to the Technical Secretariat, related to the relevant
   chemical, the characteristics of the plant site, and the nature of the
   activities carried out there. However, no plant site shall receive more
   than two routine inspections per year, and the combined number of
   routine inspections of Schedule 3 facilities to be received by a State
   Party is limited.^(133)

   The Technical Secretariat must notify a State Party of the inspection
   at least 120 hours before the inspection team arrives at the inspected
   plant site. Facility agreements are not required, the inspected State
   Party requests.^(134) The inspection team may have access to records if
   the inspectors and the State Party agree that such access will assist
   in verifying the absence of Schedule 1 chemicals and the accuracy of
   declarations.^(135) Sampling and on-site analysis may be undertaken to
   check for the absence of undeclared scheduled chemicals.

   8.1.4 Other Chemical Production Facilities

   Each State Party must subject to inspection "other" chemical production
   facilities that produced by synthesis during the previous calendar year
   more than 200 tonnes of unscheduled discrete organic chemicals. Plants
   will be randomly chosen for inspection by the same criteria as Schedule
   3 facilities, considering proposals by States Parties. The frequency of
   inspections, the scope of access, and the required notification are the
   same as for Schedule 3 facilities.

   8.2. State Party Implementation Options: Selection and Treatment of
   Inspectors

   This section discusses CWC requirements relating to the selection and
   treatment of inspectors and how each State Party can undertake its
   responsibilities as well as make necessary arrangements in anticipation
   of inspections. In brief, each State Party must:

   1. participate in the CWC process to designate inspectors;

   2. provide visas to all authorized members of inspection teams;

   3. incorporate into national law all relevant diplomatic privileges and
   immunities;

   4. inspect equipment brought by the inspection team and permit
   authorized equipment to accompany inspectors;

   5. designate national points of entry and facilitate inspectors' entry
   and safe conduct to the inspection site; and

   6. arrange for and provide for the amenities necessary for the
   inspection team.

   In general, fulfillment of these obligations will not raise complex
   legal issues nor significantly intrude upon rights of private citizens.
   As discussed in Chapter 2, each State Party must decide, consistent
   with its domestic law, which administrative agency should be
   responsible for these tasks. Some nations may assign all these tasks to
   the National Authority while other nations may want to distribute them
   among various agencies.^(136)

   Besides assigning these tasks to an agency capable of carrying them
   out, implementation measures must harmonize CWC obligations with
   existing national law. For example, to implement diplomatic privileges
   may require conforming existing laws covering diplomatic relations;
   permitting entry of approved equipment may require accommodation with
   general laws covering the import and transport of sensitive technology
   containing hazardous materials.

   The following discussion outlines the CWC obligations relevant to
   selection and treatment of inspectors. This discussion cannot speculate
   on possible conflicts with existing national law nor can it predict how
   efforts to harmonize that law with the CWC should best proceed. It is
   assumed that, with a thorough understanding of the Convention's
   obligations, the task of legally implementing these obligations will be
   straightforward.

   8.2.1 Designation of and Objection to Inspectors

   Only designated inspectors may perform verification activities.^(137)
   Within 30 days after CWC entry into force, the Technical Secretariat
   will inform States Parties of the names, nationalities, ranks, and
   qualifications and professional experience of proposed inspectors. Each
   State Party must promptly acknowledge receipt of the list and, within
   30 days, inform the Technical Secretariat of its acceptance or
   non-acceptance of each inspector. A listed inspector will be deemed
   designated unless timely objection is received. A declaration of
   non-acceptance may include the reasons for the rejection. A proposed
   inspector may not participate in verification activities anywhere under
   a non-accepting State Party's jurisdiction or control. The Technical
   Secretariat will submit further proposals as necessary to supplement
   the original list.

   After inspectors are designated, each State Party may file with the
   Technical Secretariat a written objection to a designation that will be
   effective 30 days after receipt by the Technical Secretariat. However,
   a State Party that is notified of an inspection may not remove any
   designated inspector on that team who displays appropriate
   credentials.^(138) The State Party must accept enough designated
   inspectors to allow for their availability and rotation. If, in the
   Director-General's opinion, the non-acceptance of proposed inspectors
   hinders the Technical Secretariat's duties, the Director-General must
   refer the issue to the Executive Council. Finally, as amendments to the
   inspector lists are necessary or requested, replacement personnel will
   be designated in accordance with the procedures for the initial list.

   For challenge inspections, the Director-General must specially
   designate inspectors from the list of those designated for routine
   inspections with due regard to selecting an inspection team on as wide
   a geographical basis as possible. A national of the requesting State
   Party or the inspected State Party cannot be a member of the inspection
   team.^(139)

   8.2.2 Visas

   Thirty days after acknowledging receipt of the inspectors list, each
   State Party must provide multiple entry/exit and/or transit visas to
   enable each inspector to enter and remain on its territory to carry out
   inspections. Visas must be valid for at least two years.^(140)

   8.2.3 Privileges and Immunities

   Inspectors and inspection observers are to be accorded privileges and
   immunities for the entire period they are on the inspected State
   Party's territory, and thereafter with respect to the exercise of their
   official functions.^(141) Accordingly, each State Party must enact
   appropriate measures, either within the context of existing law
   protecting diplomats or as part of its CWC implementing
   legislation.^(142) The CWC enumerates privileges and immunities
   pursuant to the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations^(143) to
   which inspection personnel are entitled, including:

   1. inviolability of diplomatic agents -- no liability for arrest or
   detention, and treatment with respect and prevention of any attack on
   his person, freedom or dignity;^(144)

   2. inviolability of premises of diplomatic agents including an agent's
   private residence and the premises of the mission;^(145)

   3. inviolability of papers and correspondence of diplomatic
   agents;^(146)

   4. inviolability of samples and approved equipment;

   5. immunity of diplomatic agents in regard to criminal jurisdiction and
   immunity from civil and administrative jurisdiction except in matters
   relating to: private immovable property, succession, and any
   professional or commercial activity outside official functions;^(147)
   and

   6. exemption from dues and taxes, subject to certain exceptions.^(148)

   Two privileges not contained in the Vienna Convention are also extended
   to the inspection team: (1) exemption from customs duties or related
   charges; and (2) currency and exchange privileges.^(149)

   8.2.4 Approved Equipment^(150)

   The Verification Annex, Part I, ¶ 1 defines approved equipment as:

   devices and instruments necessary for the performance of the inspection
   team's duties that have been certified by the Technical Secretariat in
   accordance with regulations prepared by the Technical Secretariat
   pursuant to Part II, paragraph 27 of the [Verification Annex]. Such
   equipment may also refer to the administrative supplies or recording
   materials that would be used by the inspection team.

   The Technical Secretariat has prepared a list of approved equipment as
   well as operational requirements and technical specifications governing
   the equipment's use, considering safety at all types of facilities
   where the equipment will likely be used.^(151) This list must be
   updated as appropriate and ratified by the Conference of States
   Parties.

   The inspected State Party may not restrict the inspection team bringing
   approved equipment onto the inspection site.^(152) However, that State
   Party may, in the presence of inspection team members at the point of
   entry, inspect the equipment to establish that it meets the description
   of approved equipment for the particular type of inspection.^(153) To
   help the inspected State Party, the Technical Secretariat will attach
   documents and devices to authenticate the equipment's designation and
   approval.^(154) The inspected State Party may exclude equipment that
   does not meet the description of approved equipment or which lacks
   authentication documents and devices. The procedures taken at the point
   of entry must be duly recorded in the inspection report.^(155) Facility
   agreements should have provisions relating to the types of equipment
   that can be expected to be used during different types of
   inspections.^(156)

   If the inspection team must use equipment that is present at the
   inspection site but does not belong to the Technical Secretariat, and
   it requests permission from the inspected State Party to use such
   equipment, the inspected State Party must comply with the request to
   the extent possible. If, at the point of exit, the State Party claims
   that the equipment has been modified or used for purposes not necessary
   to fulfill the inspection's objectives, the inspection team and State
   Party must attempt to resolve the matter through consultations; if
   consultations cannot resolve the matter, the equipment must be retain
   at the point of exit under joint control or joint seal until the matter
   can be resolved in the presence of a representative of the Technical
   Secretariat.^(157)

   8.2.5 Entry and Transit

   8.2.5.1 Designating Points of Entry^(158)

   Within 30 days after CWC entry into force, each State Party must select
   points of entry from which the inspection tean can reach any inspection
   site in 12 hours;^(159) Once selected, the Technical Secretariat must
   be so informed so that it can provide the location of points of entry
   to all States Parties. A State Party may change of its points of entry
   if it notifies the Technical Secretariat; a change will be effective 30
   days thereafter to allow appropriate notification to all State Parties.
   If the Technical Secretariat considers that a State Party's existing or
   proposed points of entry are insufficient for timely inspections, it
   must consult with the State Party concerned to resolve the problem.

   8.2.5.2 Transit to Inspection Site^(160)

   The inspected State Party must ensure the inspection team's immediate
   entry into its territory. In addition, it must, as necessary, assist
   the inspection team in reaching the inspection site within 12 hours
   after arrival at the point of entry. Finally, the inspected State Party
   must do everything in its power through an in-country escort or by
   other means to ensure the safe conduct of the inspection team and its
   equipment and supplies from its point of entry to the inspection
   site(s). If the State Party chooses to have a representative accompany
   the inspection team, it must so designate appropriate persons.^(161)

   8.2.5.3 Use of Non-Scheduled Aircraft^(162)

   For inspections where timely travel is infeasible using commercial
   aircraft, an inspection team may need to use the Technical
   Secretariat's aircraft. Within 30 days after CWC entry into force, each
   State Party must inform the Technical Secretariat of the standing
   diplomatic clearance number for non-scheduled aircraft to transport
   inspection teams and necessary equipment to and from the territory of
   an inspection site. The routing for such aircraft to and from the
   designated point of entry must be on established international airways
   as agreed to between the State Parties and the Technical Secretariat as
   the basis for such diplomatic clearance. The inspected State Party must
   also provide at the point of entry: parking, security protection,
   servicing, and fuel as required by the Technical Secretariat for such
   aircraft. Further, such aircraft will not be liable for landing fees,
   departure taxes, and similar charges. The OPCW will reimburse the
   inspected State Party for costs incurred for fuel, security protection,
   and servicing of the non-scheduled aircraft.

   When non-scheduled aircraft are used, the Technical Secretariat shall
   provide to the inspected State Party's National Authority, in a timely
   manner, a flight plan for the aircraft from the last prior airfield to
   the point of entry. The flight plan must include the standing
   diplomatic clearance number and the appropriate notation identifying
   the aircraft as an inspection aircraft. Within three hours before the
   scheduled departure of the inspection team from the last airfield prior
   to entering the inspected State Party's airspace, the inspected State
   Party must ensure that the flight plan is approved so that the
   inspection team may arrive at the point of entry within the estimated
   arrival time.^(163)

   8.2.6 Amenities

   CWC inspectors must be provided with a number of amenities during their
   stay in the inspected State Party's territory. These include:
   communication means, interpretation services, working space, lodging,
   meals, and medical care.^(164) Additionally, the inspection team must
   be allowed to communicate with the headquarters of the Technical
   Secretariat using their own, approved communications equipment. The
   inspection team may use its own two-way system of radio communication
   between personnel patrolling the perimeter and other members of the
   inspection team.^(165) Whether the State Party must itself provide
   these amenities or must delegate their provision to the person
   responsible for the inspected site is left to the State Party's
   discretion.^(166) The inspected State Party will be reimbursed by the
   OPCW for the costs incurred for the amenities provided to the
   inspection team.^(167)

   Conclusions

   The CWC provisions concerning routine inspections are extensive and
   complex, varying on the type of facility being inspected. In order for
   these inspections to proceed effectively, each State Party must
   undertake six tasks regarding the selection and treatment of
   inspectors: (1) approve inspectors; (2) provide visas; (3) extend
   diplomatic privileges and immunities to inspectors; (4) inspect
   equipment brought by inspectors and permit authorized equipment to
   accompany inspectors; (5) designate national points of entry and
   facilitate inspectors' safe transit to the inspection site; and (6)
   arrange for and provide necessary amenities for the inspection team.
   Fulfillment of these obligations should not raise complex legal issues;
   States Parties have many implementation options that can help make CWC
   inspections consistent with national law.
     __________________________________________________________________

   Table Of Contents

   Chapter 1 -- Giving the CWC Force and Effect
   Chapter 2 -- The National Authority
   Chapter 3 -- Destruction of Chemical Weapons and Production Facilities
   Chapter 4 -- Restrictions on Chemicals
   Chapter 5 -- Penal Legislation
   Chapter 6 -- Legal Assistance and Cooperation
   Chapter 7 -- Declarations
   Chapter 8 -- Routine Inspections I -- Selection of Sites and
   Arrangements for Inspectors
   Chapter 9 -- Routine Inspections II -- Access to Facilities and Conduct
   of Inspections
   Chapter 10 -- Challenge Inspections
   Chapter 11 -- Confidential Information
   Chapter 12 -- Remedies
   Appendix A -- Chemical Weapons Convention Prototype Implementing
   Statute
   Appendix B -- Table of CWC Implementing Legislation
