http://www.hq.nasa.gov/office/procurement/regs/1845.htm

                                  PART 1845
   GOVERNMENT PROPERTY

   TABLE OF CONTENTS

   SUBPART
   1845.1    GENERAL
       1845.102                Policy.
       1845.102-70           NASA policy.
       1845.102-71           Solicitation and review procedures.
       1845.104                 Review and correction of contractors'
   property control systems.
       1845.106                Government property clauses.
       1845.106-70           NASA contract clauses and solicitation
   provision.
       1845.106-71           Plant reconversion and plant clearance.

   SUBPART
   1845.3     PROVIDING GOVERNMENT PROPERTY TO CONTRACTORS
       1845.301                Definitions.
       1845.302                Providing facilities.
       1845.302-1             Policy.
       1845.302-2             Facilities contracts.
       1845.302-70           Securing approval of facilities projects.
       1845.302-71           Determination and findings.

   SUBPART
   1845.4     CONTRACTOR USE AND RENTAL OF GOVERNMENT  PROPERTY
       1845.402                Authorizing use of Government production
   and research property.
       1845.403                Rental -- Use and Charges clause.
       1845.405                Contracts with foreign governments or
   international organizations.
       1845.405-70           NASA procedures.
       1845.406                Use of Government production and research
   property on independent research and development programs.
       1845.406-70           NASA policy.
       1845.407                 Non-Government use of plant equipment.

   SUBPART
   1845.5     MANAGEMENT OF GOVERNMENT PROPERTY IN THE POSSESSION OF
   CONTRACTORS
       1845.502                Contractor responsibility.
       1845.502-1             Receipts for Government property.
       1845.502-70           Contractor-acquired property.
       1845.505                 Records and reports of Government
   property.
       1845.505-14           Reports of Government property.
       1845.508                 Physical inventories.

   SUBPART
   1845.6     REPORTING, REDISTRIBUTION, AND DISPOSAL OF CONTRACTOR
   INVENTORY
       1845.604                 Restrictions on purchase or retention of
   contractor inventory.
       1845.606                  Inventory schedules.
       1845.606-1              Submission.
       1845.607                  Scrap.
       1845.607-1              General.
       1845.607-170          Contractor's approved scrap procedure.
       1845.607-2              Recovering precious metals.
       1845.608                  Screening of contractor inventory.
       1845.608-1              General.
       1845.608-6              Waiver of screening requirements.
       1845.610                  Sale of surplus contractor inventory.
       1845.610-3               Proceeds of sale.
       1845.610-4               Contractor inventory in foreign countries.
       1845.613                   Property disposal determinations.
       1845.615                   Accounting for contractor inventory.

   SUBPART 1845.70     RESERVED

   SUBPART
   1845.71     FORMS PREPARATION
       1845.7101                 Instructions for preparing NASA Form
   1018.
       1845.7101-1             Property classification.
       1845.7101-2             Transfers of property.
       1845.7101-3             Unit acquisition costs.
       1845.7101-4             Types of deletions from contractor property
   records.
       1845.7101-5             Contractor's privileged financial and
   business information.
       1845.7102                 Instructions for preparing DD Form 1419.

   SUBPART
   1845.72     CONTRACT PROPERTY MANAGEMENT
       1845.7201                 Definitions.
       1845.7202                 General.
       1845.7203                 Delegations of property administration
   and plant clearance.
       1845.7204                 Retention of property administration and
   plant clearance.
       1845.7205                 Functional oversight of property
   administration and plant clearance.
       1845.7206                 Responsibilities of property
   administrators and plant clearance officers.
       1845.7206-1              Property administrators.
       1845.7206-2              Plant clearance officers.
       1845.7207                  Declaration of excess property.
       1845.7208                  Closure of contracts.
       1845.7208-1              Completion or termination.
       1845.7208-2               Final review and closing of contracts.
       1845.7209                  Special subjects.
       1845.7209-1              Government property at alternate locations
   of the prime contractor and subcontractor plants.
       1845.7209-2              Loss, damage, or destruction of Government
   property.
       1845.7209-3              Loss, damage, or destruction of Government
   property while in contractor's possession or control.
       1845.7209-4              Financial reports.
       1845.7210                 Contractor utilization of Government
   property.
       1845.7210-1              Utilization surveys.
       1845.7210-2              Records of surveys.


                                  PART 1845
   GOVERNMENT PROPERTY

                           Subpart 1845.1--General

   1845.102    Policy.

   1845.102-70   NASA policy.
        Government property shall not be provided to contractors unless
   all other alternatives are not feasible. The decision to provide
   Government property to contractors (whether Government-furnished or
   contractor-acquired) shall be made only after careful consideration of
   all relevant factors.  Among these factors are the following:

        (a)  Providing Government property to contractors increases the
   Government's administrative burden and requires recordkeeping and
   personnel.
        (b)  Providing property may dilute the contractor's overall
   responsibility and weaken guarantees, end-item delivery requirements,
   and other contract terms.
        (c)  Providing property may make NASA responsible for delays in
   that the Agency assumes responsibility for scheduling delivery of the
   property.

   1845.102-71   Solicitation and review procedures.
        (a)  Each solicitation, as applicable, shall include the
   following:
              (1)  A list of any Government property available to be
   furnished, quantities, locations, conditions, and any related
   information.
              (2)  A requirement that offerors identify any Government
   property in their possession proposed for use during contract
   performance. The items, quantities, locations, acquisition costs, and
   proposed rental terms must be provided, along with identification of
   the Government contract under which the property is accountable.
              (3)  A requirement that requested Government provided
   facilities be described and identified by the classifications in
   1845.7101-1.
              (4)  A requirement that offerors provide, if applicable, the
   date of the last Government property control system review, a summary
   of the findings and recommendations, and contractor corrective actions
   taken.
        (b)  The contracting officer shall provide a copy of the
   solicitation (or contract if no solicitation is used) to the center
   supply and equipment management officer (SEMO) for review for
   acquisitions with an estimated cost greater than $1,000,000, or for
   acquisitions over $50,000 when work is to be performed at the center,
   existing Government property is being furnished, or contract
   acquisition of Government property is required or permitted.

   1845.104    Review and correction of contractors' property control
   systems.
        (a)  Property administration is normally delegated to DOD. When
   property administration is not delegated to DOD, NASA shall conduct the
   review of the contractor's property administration system in accordance
   with DOD 4161.2-M, Manual for the Performance of Contract Property
   Administration.

   1845.106    Government property clauses.
        (b)  If NASA contemplates taking title to contractor acquired
   property under paragraph (c) of the clause at FAR 52.245-2, Government
   Property (Fixed-Price Contracts), the contracting officer shall list
   the applicable property in the contract as deliverable items.

   1845.106-70   NASA contract clauses and solicitation provision.
        (a)  The contracting officer shall insert the clause
   at 1852.245-70, Contractor Requests for Government-Owned Equipment, in
   all solicitations and contracts that have the potential for contractor
   acquisition of equipment for the account of the Government that is not
   listed as a specific contract deliverable. See 1845.7102 for
   instructions on preparing DD Form 1419.

        (b) (1)  The contracting officer shall insert the clause at
   1852.245-71, Installation-Accountable Government Property, in
   solicitations and contracts when Government property is to be made
   available to a contractor working on a NASA installation, and the
   Government will maintain accountability for the property. The
   contracting officer shall list in the clause the applicable property
   user responsibilities. For purposes of this clause, NASA installations
   include local off-site buildings owned or directly leased by NASA when
   the contractor does not have authority to acquire property for the
   account of the Government.
              (2)  Use of this clause is subject to the SEMO's concurrence
   that adequate installation property management resources are available
   for oversight of the property in accordance with all applicable NASA
   installation property management directives.
              (3)  The contracting officer shall identify in the contract
   the nature, quantity, and acquisition cost of such property and make
   the property available on a no-charge basis.
              (4)  The contracting officer shall use the clause with its
   Alternate I if the SEMO requests that the contractor be restricted from
   use of the center central receiving facility for the purposes of
   receiving contractor-acquired property.
              (5)  Contracting officers shall list separately in the
   contract any property provided under a FAR 52.245 Government property
   clause that remains accountable to the contractor during its use on the
   contract (such as property used at the contractor's or a
   subcontractor's off-site facility) and which is not also subject to the
   clause at 1852.245-71. The contracting officer shall address any
   specific maintenance considerations (e.g., requiring or precluding use
   of an installation calibration or repair facility) elsewhere in the
   contract.
              (6)  See 1845.106-70(e).
        (c)  The contracting officer shall insert the clause
   at 1852.245-72, Liability for Government Property Furnished for Repair
   and Services, in fixed-price solicitations and contracts (except for
   experimental, developmental, or research work with educational or
   nonprofit institutions, where no profit is contemplated) for repair,
   modification, rehabilitation, or other servicing of Government
   property, if such property is to be furnished to a contractor for that
   purpose and no other Government property is to be furnished. The
   contracting officer shall not require additional insurance under the
   clause unless the circumstances clearly indicate advantages to the
   Government.
        (d)  The contracting officer shall insert the clause at
   1852.245-73, Financial Reporting of NASA Property in the Custody of
   Contractors, in cost reimbursement contracts unless all property to be
   provided is subject to the clause at 1852.245-71,
   Installation-Accountable Government Property. The clause shall also be
   included in other types of contracts when it is known at award that
   property will be provided to the contractor or that the contractor will
   acquire property title to which will vest in the Government prior to
   delivery.
        (e)  When approved by the Logistics Management Office of the
   Headquarters Office of Management Systems and Facilities (Code JLG),
   the contracting officer shall insert the clause at 1852.245-74,
   Contractor Accountable On-Site Government Property, in lieu of the
   clause at 1852.245-71, in solicitations and contracts when
   accountability rests with an on-site contractor. The contracting
   officer's written request for approval shall include a determination of
   costs that will be (1) avoided (e.g., additional costs to the
   installation's property management systems and staffing) and (2)
   incurred (e.g., reimbursable costs of the contractor to implement,
   staff, and operate separate property management systems on-site, and
   resources needed for performance of, or reimbursement for, property
   administration) under contractor accountability.
        (f)  The contracting officer shall insert the clause at
   1852.245-75, Title to Equipment, in solicitations and contracts where
   the clause at FAR 52.245-2 with its Alternate II or 52.245-5 with its
   Alternate I is used.
        (g)  The contracting officer shall insert the clause at
   1852.245-76, List of Government-Furnished Property, in solicitations
   and contracts if the contractor is to be accountable under the contract
   for Government property.
        (h)  The contracting officer shall insert the clause at
   1852.245-77, List of Installation-Accountable Property and Services, in
   solicitations and contracts that require performance at the center and
   authorize contractor use of property within the physical borders of the
   center.
        (i)  The contracting officer shall insert the provision at
   1852.245-79, Use of Government-Owned Property, in all solicitations
   when Government property may be used by the contractor.
        (j)  The contracting officer shall insert the clause at
   1852.245-80, Use of Government Production and Research Property on a
   No-Charge Basis, in solicitations and contracts when Government
   property (real property, commercially available equipment, special test
   equipment, or special tooling) accountable under another contract(s) is
   authorized for use.

   1845.106-71   Plant reconversion and plant clearance.
        The Associate Administrator for Procurement (Code HS) is the
   approval authority for any solicitation provision or contract clause
   that would defer negotiation of costs for plant reconversion or plant
   clearance until after award.

        Subpart 1845.3--Providing Government Property to Contractors

   1845.301   Definitions.
        "Facilities", as defined in the FAR, also include real property
   and commercially available equipment, whether owned or leased by NASA
   or reimbursed as a cost under the contract.
        "Provide", as used in this subpart in such phrases as "Government
   property provided to the contractor" and "Government-provided
   property," means either to furnish, as in "Government-furnished
   property," or to permit to be acquired, as in "contractor-acquired
   property."  See FAR 45.101 for definitions of "contractor-acquired
   property" and "Government-furnished property."

   1845.302   Providing facilities.

   1845.302-1   Policy.
        (a)  In addition to the exceptions listed in FAR 45.302-1(a),
   existing NASA-owned facilities (whether contractor acquired or
   Government furnished) being used by a contractor may be retained for
   the remainder of the contract period and furnished under any follow-on
   contract for the same effort if the contracting officer determines that
   to do so would be in the best interest of the Government, provided
   that:
               (i)   The facilities are required to accomplish the purpose
   of the contract;
               (ii)  The contract contains a provision requiring the
   contractor to replace any of the facilities that reach the end of their
   useful life during the contract period, or which are beyond economical
   repair, if the facilities are still needed for contract performance.
   Such replacements shall be made with contractor-owned facilities. The
   contract provision shall also expressly prohibit contractor
   acquisitions of facility items for the Government, unless specifically
   authorized by the contract or consent has been obtained in writing from
   the contracting officer pursuant to FAR 45.302-1(a);
               (iii) Consideration has been given to any alternative uses
   by Government personnel within the agency, in consultation with the
   center industrial property officer; and
               (iv) The contracting officer documents the file with a
   detailed explanation of why continued furnishing of the facilities is
   in the best interest of the Government.

        (a) (4) (A) The procurement officer is designated to make the
   determinations and findings (D&F) authorizing the use of Government
   facilities. See 1845.302-71 for D&F format.
                   (B)  The requirements for a D&F and a prospective
   contractor's written statement asserting inability to obtain facilities
   are not applicable in the circumstances listed under FAR 45.302-1(d).
   In these cases, the contracting officer shall document the contract
   file with the rationale for providing the facilities, including the
   reason for not requiring the contractor to provide them.

   1845.302-2   Facilities contracts.
        Unless termination would be detrimental to the Government's
   interests, contracting officers shall terminate facilities contracts
   when the Government property is no longer required for the performance
   of Government contracts or subcontracts. Contracting officers shall not
   grant the contractor the unilateral right to extend the time during
   which it is entitled to use the property provided under the facilities
   contract.

   1845.302-70   Securing approval of facilities projects.
        (a)  Pursuant to NMI 7330.1, Delegation of Authority - Approval
   Authorities for Facility Projects, the contracting officer must approve
   facilities projects involving leasing, construction, expansion,
   modification, rehabilitation, repair, or replacement of real property.
        (b)  The contracting officer's written authorization is required
   before any change is made in the scope or estimated cost of any
   facilities project.

   1845.302-71   Determination and findings.
        (a)  Procedure.  Determination and findings (D&F) required
   under FAR 45.302-1(a)(4) and 1845.302-1(a)(4) shall be prepared by the
   contracting officer and approved by the procurement officer. Prior to
   approval, concurrence must be obtained from the SEMO to ensure
   agreement on the use of the Government facilities by the contractor.
   D&Fs shall address individual types of facilities to be provided to the
   contractor. Reference to specific variations in quantities of items to
   be provided should be included in the D&F if additional requirements
   are anticipated. A separate D&F is required before adding new types of
   items or significant changes in quantity or before adding any new work
   to the contract that requires additional Government facilities.
        (b)  Format.  A sample format follows:

                                  (Format)

                       National Aeronautics and Space
                               Administration
                            Washington, DC 20546

                         Determination and Findings
                  Decision to Provide Government Facilities
   On the basis of the following findings and determinations,
       Government-owned facilities may be provided to   [insert the name
       of the contractor]   pursuant to the authority of FAR
       45.302-1(a)(4).

                                  Findings
   1.  The   [insert the name of the contracting activity]    and the
       contractor (have entered)/(proposed to enter) into Contract No.
       [insert the contract number]   . (Include the following
       information: Type of contract, contract value, and a brief
       description of the scope of work performed under the contract.)
       2.  (Justify that Government facilities are needed for performance
       under the contract. The justification shall demonstrate either  (i)
       that the contract cannot be fulfilled by any other means, or  (ii)
       that it is in the public interest to provide the facilities. It is
       imperative that the justification be fully substantiated by
       evidence.)
       3.  (If the contract effort cannot be fulfilled by any other means,
       indicate why the contractor cannot provide the facilities.  For
       example, due to financial constraints, the contractor has
       demonstrated inability to acquire the facilities; or, even though
       the contractor is willing and financially able to acquire these
       facilities for its own account, the contractor has stated that time
       will not permit making arrangements to obtain timely delivery to
       meet NASA requirements.  If timely delivery is the problem, state
       when the contractor will replace the Government facilities with
       contractor-owned facilities. Address leadtime, validate the
       contractor's claims, and state that private financing was sought
       and either not available or not advantageous to the Government. If
       private financing was not advantageous to the Government, provide
       justification. Indicate other alternatives considered and reasons
       for rejection.)
       4.  (Describe the types of facilities to be provided and any
       variation in quantities of items based on functional requirements.
       Explain how these facilities pertain to the scope of work to be
       completed.  State that the contract cannot be accomplished without
       the specified facility items being provided.  Include an estimate
       of the value of the facilities and a statement that no facilities
       items under $10,000 unit cost will be provided unless the
       contractor is a nonprofit, on-site, or the facilities are only
       available from the Government.)
       5.  (Indicate whether the property will be accountable under this
       contract or a separate facilities contract.)

                                Determination
   For the reasons set forth above, it is hereby determined that the
       Government-owned facilities identified herein will be provided to
       the contractor.

   Procurement
   Officer
            Date

                               (End of format)

      Subpart 1845.4--Contractor Use and Rental of Government Property

   1845.402   Authorizing use of Government production and research
   property.
        (a) (i)  A NASA contracting officer desiring to authorize use of
   Government property under the cognizance of another contracting officer
   shall obtain that contracting officer's concurrence.
              (ii)  NASA contracting officers having cognizance over NASA
   property may authorize its use on contracts of other agencies if such
   use will not interfere with NASA's primary purpose for the property and
   will not extend beyond the expected expiration or completion date of
   the NASA contract.

   1845.403   Rental -- Use and Charges clause.
        (a)  The Center Director is designated as the authority to make
   the determinations on modified rental rates.

   1845.405   Contracts with foreign governments or international
   organizations.

   1845.405-70   NASA procedures.
        (a)  NASA policy is to recover a fair share of the cost of
   Government production and research property if such property is used in
   performing services or manufacturing articles for foreign countries or
   for international organizations.
        (b)  The prior written approval of the Associate Administrator for
   Procurement (Code H) is required for the use of Government production
   and research property on work for foreign countries or for
   international organizations. The Logistics Management Office of the
   Headquarters Office of Management Systems (Code JG), the Office of
   General Counsel (Code G), and the Headquarters Office of External
   Relations (Code I) are required concurrences.
        (c)  Contracting officers shall forward requests for approval to
   Code HS, along with a summary of the circumstances involved, including
   as a minimum --
              (1)  The name of the requesting contractor;
              (2)  The number of the contract under which the equipment is
   controlled;
              (3)  A description of the equipment;
              (4)  The name of the foreign contractor and the relationship
   of the foreign contractor to its government or to any international
   organization;
              (5)  A description of the articles to be manufactured or
   services to be performed;
              (6)  A statement that the intended use will not interfere
   with the current or foreseeable requirements of the United States or
   require use of the equipment beyond the expected expiration or
   completion date of the NASA contract;
              (7)  A statement that the use of Government property is
   consistent with the best interests of the United States;
              (8)  A statement that such use is legally authorized; and
              (9)  Any evidence of endorsement by another agency of the
   U.S. Government based on national security or foreign policy of the
   United States (e.g., an approved license or agreement from the
   Department of State or Department of Commerce).
        (d)  Use, if approved, shall be subject to rent in accordance
   with FAR 45.403.

   1845.406   Use of Government production and research property on
   independent research and development programs.

   1845.406-70   NASA policy.
        The contracting officer should not authorize contractor use of
   Government property for independent research and development on a
   rent-free basis except in unusual circumstances when it has been
   determined by the contracting officer that --

        (a)  Such use is clearly in the best interests of the Government
   (for example, the project can reasonably be expected to be of value in
   specific Government programs); and
        (b)  No competitive advantage will accrue to the contractor
   through such use (see FAR 45.201).

   1845.407   Non-Government use of plant equipment.
        For NASA, the coverage in FAR 45.407, applies to all equipment,
   not just plant equipment.

        (a) (i)   The Associate Administrator for Procurement (Code HS) is
   the approval authority for non-Government use of equipment exceeding 25
   percent.
             (ii)  The percentage of Government and non-Government use
   shall be computed on the basis of time available for use. For this
   purpose, the contractor's normal work schedule, as represented by
   scheduled production shift hours, shall be used. All equipment having a
   unit acquisition cost of less than $25,000 at any single location may
   be averaged over a quarterly period. Equipment having a unit
   acquisition cost of $25,000 or more shall be considered on an
   item-by-item basis.
              (iii) Approval for non-Government use of less than 25
   percent shall be for a period not exceeding 1 year. Approval for
   non-Government use in excess of 25 percent shall not be for less than 3
   months.
              (iv) Requests for the approval shall be submitted to Code HS
   at least 6 weeks in advance of the projected use and shall include--
                    (A)  The number of equipment items involved and their
   total acquisition cost; and
                    (B)  An itemized listing of equipment having an
   acquisition cost of $25,000 or more, showing for each item the
   nomenclature, year of manufacture, and acquisition cost.

   Subpart 1845.5--Management of Government Property in the Possession of
                                 Contractors

   1845.502   Contractor responsibility.

   1845.502-1   Receipts for Government property.
        Receipts for Government property shall comply with the
   instructions for preparing NASA Form 1018, NASA Property in the Custody
   of Contractors (see 1845.7101).

   1845.502-70   Contractor-acquired property.
        All contractor-acquired property must be authorized by the
   contract and is subject to a determination by the contracting officer
   that it is allocable to the contract and reasonably necessary. The
   acquisition (and fabrication) of Government property is further subject
   to the following conditions, depending on category of property:

        (a)  Facilities.
              (1)  Prior contracting officer approval, if the facilities
   are not already specifically described in the contract as
   contractor-acquired.
              (2)  Submission of DD Form 1419, DOD Industrial Plant
   Requisition, or equivalent format, and return of Certificate of
   Nonavailability.
              (3)  Submission of the written statement prescribed by FAR
   45.302-1(a)(4).
        (b)  Special test equipment.
              (1)  Contracting officer approval 30 days in advance if the
   equipment is not identified in the solicitation or contract.
              (2)  Submission of DD Form 1419, or equivalent format, and
   return of Certificate of Nonavailability.
        (c)  Special tooling.
              (1)  If the contract contains a Subcontracts clause, advance
   notification to the contracting officer and contracting officer consent
   if required by that clause.
              (2)  If the contract is a fixed-price contract, submission
   of the list to the contracting officer within 60 days after delivery of
   the first production end items (or later as prescribed by the
   contracting officer), unless the tooling is already identified in the
   solicitation.
              (3)  Submission of DD Form 1419 or equivalent format and
   return of Certificate of Nonavailability.
        (d)  Material. If the contract contains a Subcontracts clause,
   advance notification to the contracting officer and contracting officer
   consent if required by that clause.
        (e)  Agency-peculiar property.
              (1)  If the contract contains a Subcontracts clause, advance
   notification to the contracting officer and contracting officer consent
   if required by that clause.
              (2)  Submission of DD Form 1419, or equivalent format, and
   return of Certificate of Nonavailability.

   1845.505   Records and reports of Government property.

   1845.505-14   Reports of Government property.
        (b)  When the clause at 1852.245-73, Financial Reporting of NASA
   Property in the Custody of Contractors, is included in the contract,
   the contractor shall submit NASA Form 1018, NASA Property in the
   Custody of Contractors, in accordance with the instructions on the form
   and 1845.71. Contractor property control systems shall distinguish
   between Government furnished and contractor acquired property for
   purposes of reporting the acquisition cost in the property
   classifications shown in FAR 45.505-14(a)(1) through (5).

   1845.508   Physical inventories.
        NASA contractors shall reconcile inventories with the official
   property records and submit reports to the property administrator
   within 30 days after inventory completion. The contractor shall
   investigate all losses of property and discoveries of unrecorded
   property to determine the causes of the discrepancy and actions needed
   to prevent its recurrence.

    Subpart 1845.6--Reporting, Redistribution, and Disposal of Contractor
                                  Inventory

   1845.604   Restrictions on purchase or retention of contractor
   inventory.
        (1)  No contractor may sell contractor inventory to persons known
   by it to be NASA or DOD personnel who have been engaged in
   administering or terminating NASA contracts.

        (2) (i)
   The contractor's or subcontractor's authority to approve the sale,
   purchase, or retention of Government property on a contract which is
   excess to needs after Government reutilization screening at less than
   cost by a subcontractor, and the subcontractor's authority to sell,
   purchase, or retain such property at less than cost with the approval
   of the contractor or next higher-tier subcontractor does not include
   authority to approve --
                    (A)  A sale by a subcontractor to the contractor, the
   next higher-tier subcontractor, or their affiliates; or
                    (B)  A sale, purchase, or retention by a subcontractor
   affiliated with the contractor or next higher-tier subcontractor.
              (ii)  Each excluded sale, purchase, or retention requires
   the written approval of the plant clearance officer.

   1845.606   Inventory schedules.

   1845.606-1  Submission.
        See 1845.608 for intra-agency screening of excess contractor-held
   property.

   1845.607   Scrap.

   1845.607-1  General.

   1845.607-170   Contractor's approved scrap procedure.
        (a)  When a contractor has an approved scrap procedure, certain
   property may be routinely disposed of in accordance with that procedure
   and not processed under this section.
        (b)  The center property administrator is authorized to approve
   the contractor's scrap procedure. Before approval, the plant clearance
   officer shall review the procedure, particularly regarding sales. The
   plant clearance officer shall ensure that the procedure contains
   adequate requirements for inspecting and examining items to be disposed
   of as scrap. When the contractor's procedure does not require physical
   segregation of Government-owned scrap from contractor-owned scrap and
   separate disposal, care shall be exercised to ensure that a contract
   change that generates a large quantity of property does not result in
   an inequitable return to the Government. In such a case, the property
   administrator shall make a determination as to whether separate
   disposition of Government scrap would be appropriate.
        (c)  A plant clearance case shall not be established for property
   disposed of through the contractor's approved scrap procedure.
        (d)  Property in scrap condition, other than that disposed of
   through the contractor's approved scrap procedure, shall be reported on
   appropriate inventory schedules for disposition in accordance with the
   provisions of FAR Part 45 and 1845.

   1845.607-2   Recovering precious metals.
        (b)  Silver, gold, platinum, palladium, rhodium, iridium, osmium,
   and ruthenium; scrap bearing such metals; and items containing
   recoverable quantities of them shall be reported to the Defense
   Reutilization and Marketing Service, DRMS-R, Federal Center, Battle
   Creek, MI 49017-3092, for instructions regarding disposition.

   1845.608   Screening of contractor inventory.

   1845.608-1   General.
        (a)  Property Disposal Officers (PDOs) are the center focal points
   for intra-agency reutilization screening. PDOs shall acknowledge
   receipt of inventory schedules within 30 days and simultaneously
   provide the plant clearance officer a NASA screening completion/release
   date. Screening shall be accomplished in accordance with NPG 4300.1.

   1845.608-6   Waiver of screening requirements.
        The Director of the Logistics Management Office of the
   Headquarters Office of Management Systems and Facilities (Code JLG) is
   designated to authorize exceptions to intra-agency screening
   requirements.

   1845.610   Sale of surplus contractor inventory.

   1845.610-3   Proceeds of sale.
        The plant clearance officer shall maintain an open suspense record
   until verifying that credit has been applied, unless another Government
   representative has specifically assumed this responsibility.

   1845.610-4   Contractor inventory in foreign countries.
        NASA procedures for disposal are in NPG 4300.1.

   1845.613   Property disposal determinations.
        The center property disposal officer (PDO) shall review the
   determinations in accordance with NPG 4300.1.

   1845.615   Accounting for contractor inventory.
        A copy of Standard Form 1424, Inventory Disposal Report, shall be
   provided to the center industrial property officer or the PDO.

                          Subpart 1845.70--Reserved

                     Subpart 1845.71--Forms Preparation

   1845.7101 Instructions for preparing NASA Form 1018.

   NASA must account for and report assets in accordance with 31 U.S.C.
   3512 and 31 U.S.C. 3515, Federal Accounting Standards, and Office of
   Management and Budget (OMB) instructions. Since contractors maintain
   NASA’s official records for its assets in their possession, NASA must
   obtain annual data from those records to meet these requirements.
   Changes in Federal Accounting Standards and OMB reporting requirements
   may occur from year to year, requiring contractor submission of
   supplemental information with the NASA Form (NF) 1018. Contractors
   shall retain documentation that supports data reported on NF 1018 in
   accordance with FAR subpart 4.7, Contractor Records Retention.
   Classifications of property, related costs to be reported, and other
   reporting requirements are discussed in this subpart. NASA Form 1018
   (see
   1853.3) provides critical information for NASA financial statements and
   property management. Accuracy and timeliness of the report are very
   important. If errors are discovered on NF 1018 after submission, the
   contractor shall contact the cognizant NASA Center Industrial Property
   Officer (IPO) to discuss corrective action. IPO’s shall work with NASA
   Center finance personnel to determine appropriate corrective action and
   provide guidance to contractors.

   1845.7101-1 Property Classification.

   (a) General. Contractors shall report costs in the classifications on
   NF 1018, as described in this section.

   (b) Land. Includes costs of land and improvements to land. Contractors
   shall report land with a unit acquisition cost of $100,000 or more.

   (c) Buildings. Includes costs of buildings, improvements to buildings,
   and fixed equipment required for the operation of a building which is
   permanently attached to and a part of the building and cannot be
   removed without cutting into the walls, ceilings, of floors.
   Contractors shall report buildings with a unit acquisition cost of
   $100,000 or more. Examples of fixed equipment required for functioning
   of a building include plumbing, heating and lighting equipment,
   elevators, central air conditioning systems, and built-in safes and
   vaults.

   (d) Other Structures and Facilities. Includes costs of acquisitions and
   improvements of real property (i.e. structures and facilities other
   than buildings); for example, airfield pavements, harbor and port
   facilities, power production facilities and distribution systems,
   reclamation and irrigation facilities, flood control and navigation
   aids, utility systems (heating, sewage, water and electrical) when they
   serve several buildings or structures, communication systems, traffic
   aids, roads and bridges, railroads, monuments and memorials, and
   nonstructural improvements such as sidewalks, parking areas, and
   fences. Contractors shall report other structures and facilities with a
   unit acquisition cost of $100,000 or more and a useful life of two
   years or more.

   (e) Leasehold improvements. Includes NASA-funded costs of improvements
   to leased buildings, structures, and facilities, as well as easements
   and right-of-way, where NASA is the lessee or the cost is charged to a
   NASA contract. Contractors shall report leasehold improvements with a
   unit acquisition cost of $100,000 or more and a useful life of two
   years or more.

   (f) Construction in Progress. Includes costs of work in process for the
   construction of Buildings, Other Structures and Facilities, and
   Leasehold Improvements to which NASA has title, regardless of value.

   (g) Equipment. Includes costs of commercially available personal
   property capable of stand-alone use in manufacturing supplies,
   performing services, or any general or administrative purpose (for
   example, machine tools, furniture, vehicles, computers, software, test
   equipment, including their accessory or auxiliary items). Contractors
   shall separately report:

   (1) the amount for all items with a unit acquisition cost of $100,000
   or more and a useful life of two years or more; and

   (2) All other items.

   (h) Special Tooling. Includes costs of equipment and manufacturing aids
   (and their components and replacements) of such a specialized nature
   that, without substantial modification or alteration, their use is
   limited to development or production of particular supplies or parts,
   or performance of particular services. Examples include jigs, dies,
   fixtures, molds, patterns, taps and gauges. Contractors shall
   separately report:

   (1) the amount for all items with a unit acquisition cost of $100,000
   or more and a useful life of two years or more; and

   (2) All other items.

   (i) Special Test Equipment. Includes costs of equipment used to
   accomplish special purpose testing in performing a contract, and items
   or assemblies of equipment. Contractors shall separately report:

   (1) the amount for all items with a unit acquisition cost of $100,000
   or more and a useful life of two years or more; and

   (2) All other items.

   (j) Material. Includes costs of NASA-owned property held in inventory
   that may become a part of an end item or be expended in performing a
   contract. Examples include raw and processed material, parts,
   assemblies, small tools and supplies. Material that is part of
   work-in-process is not included. Contractors shall report the amount
   for all Materials in inventory, regardless of unit acquisition cost.

   (k) Agency-Peculiar Property. Includes costs of completed items,
   systems and subsystems, spare parts and components unique to NASA
   aeronautical and space programs. Examples include research aircraft,
   reusable space vehicles, ground support equipment, prototypes, and
   mock-ups. The amount of property, title to which vests in NASA as a
   result of progress payments to fixed price subcontractors, shall be
   included to reflect the pro rata cost of undelivered agency-peculiar
   property. Completed end items which otherwise meet the definition of
   Agency-Peculiar Property, but are destined for permanent operation in
   space, such as satellites and space probes, shall be reported as
   Contract Work in Process. Contractors shall separately report:

   (1) the amount for all items with a unit acquisition cost of $100,000
   or more and a useful life of two years or more; and

   (2) All other items.

   (l) Contract Work-in-Process. Includes costs of all work-in-process
   regardless of value; excludes costs of completed items reported in
   other categories. Includes completed end items of property which
   otherwise meet the definition of Agency-Peculiar Property, but are
   destined for permanent operation in space, such as satellites and space
   probes.

   1845.7101-2   Transfers of property.
   A transfer is a change in accountability between and among prime
   contracts, NASA Centers, and other Government agencies (e.g., between
   contracts of the same NASA Center, contracts of different NASA Centers,
   a contract of one NASA Center to another, a NASA Center to a contract
   of another NASA Center, and a contract to another Government agency or
   its contract). To enable NASA to properly control and account for
   transfers, they shall be adequately documented. Therefore, procurement,
   property, and financial organizations at NASA Centers must effect all
   transfers of accountability, although physical shipment and receipt of
   property may be made directly by contractors. The procedures described
   in this section shall be followed to provide an administrative and
   audit trail, even if property is physically shipped directly from one
   contractor to another. Property shipped between September 1 and
   September 30, inclusively, shall be accounted for and reported by the
   shipping contractor, regardless of the method of shipment, unless
   written evidence of receipt at destination has been received.
   Repairables provided under fixed price repair contracts that include
   the clause at 1852.245-72, Liability for Government Property Furnished
   for Repair or Other Services, remain accountable to the cognizant NASA
   Center and are not reportable on NF 1018; repairables provided under a
   cost-reimbursement contract, however, are accountable to the contractor
   and reportable on NF 1018. All materials provided to conduct repairs
   are reportable, regardless of contract type.

   (a) Approval and Notification. The contractor must obtain approval of
   the contracting officer or designee for transfers of property before
   shipment. Each shipping document must contain contract numbers,
   shipping references, property classifications in which the items are
   recorded (including Federal Supply Classification group (FSC) codes for
   equipment), unit acquisition costs (as defined in 1845.7101-3, Unit
   Acquisition Cost), original acquisition dates for items with a unit
   acquisition cost of $100,000 or more and a useful life of two years or
   more, and any other appropriate identifying or descriptive data. Where
   the DD Form 250, Material Inspection and Receiving Report, is used, the
   FSC code will be part of the national stock number (NSN) entered in
   Block 16 or, if the NSN is not provided, the FSC alone shall be shown
   in Block 16. The original acquisition date shall be shown in Block 23,
   by item. Other formats, such as the DD Form 1149, Requisition and
   Invoice/Shipping Document, should be clearly annotated with the
   required information. Unit acquisition costs shall be obtained from
   records maintained pursuant to FAR Part 45 and this Part 1845, or, for
   uncompleted items where property records have not yet been established,
   from such other record systems as are appropriate such as manufacturing
   or engineering records used for work control and billing purposes.
   Shipping contractors shall furnish a copy of the shipping document to
   the cognizant property administrator. Shipping and receiving
   contractors shall promptly notify the financial management office of
   the NASA Center responsible for their respective contracts when
   accountability for NASA property is transferred to, or received from,
   other contracts, contractors, NASA Centers, or Government agencies.
   Copies of shipping or receiving documents will suffice as notification
   in most instances.

   (b) Reclassification. If property is transferred to another contract or
   contractor, the receiving contractor shall record the property in the
   same property classification and amount appearing on the shipping
   document. For example, when a contractor receives an item from another
   contractor that is identified on the shipping document as equipment,
   but that the recipient intends to incorporate into special test
   equipment, the recipient shall first record the item in the equipment
   account and subsequently reclassify it as special test equipment.
   Reclassification of equipment, special tooling, special test equipment,
   or agency-peculiar property requires prior approval of the contracting
   officer or a designee.

   (c) Incomplete documentation. If contractors receive transfer documents
   having insufficient detail to properly record the transfer (e.g.,
   omission of property classification, FSC, unit acquisition cost,
   acquisition date, etc.) they shall request the omitted data directly
   from the shipping contractor or through the property administrator as
   provided in FAR 45.505-2. The contracting officer shall assist the
   Government Property Administrator and the receiving contractor to
   obtain all required information for the receiving contractor to
   establish adequate property records.

   1845.7101-3   Unit acquisition cost.
   (a) The unit acquisition cost shall include all costs incurred to bring
   the property to a form and location suitable for its intended use. The
   following is representative of the types of costs that shall be
   included, when applicable:

   (1) Amounts paid to vendors or other contractors.

   (2) Transportation charges to the point of initial use.

   (3) Handling and storage charges.

   (4) Labor and other direct or indirect production costs (for assets
   produced or constructed).

   (5) Engineering, architectural, and other outside services for designs,
   plans, specifications, and surveys.

   (6) Acquisition and preparation costs of buildings and other
   facilities.

   (7) An appropriate share of the cost of the equipment and facilities
   used in construction work.

   (8) Fixed equipment and related installation costs required for
   activities in a building or facility.

   (9) Direct costs of inspection, supervision, and administration of
   construction contracts and construction work.

   (10) Legal and recording fees and damage claims.

   (11) Fair values of facilities and equipment donated to the Government.

   (b) Acquisition cost shall include, where appropriate, for contractor
   acquired Special Test Equipment, Special Tooling, Agency-Peculiar
   Property and Contract Work-In-Process, related fees, or a pro rata
   portion of fees, paid by NASA to the contractor. Situations where
   inclusion of fees in the acquisition cost would be appropriate are
   those in which the contractor designs, develops, fabricates or
   purchases property for NASA and part of the fees paid to the contractor
   by NASA are related to that effort.

   (c) The use of weighted average methodologies is acceptable for
   valuation of Material.

   (d) Contractors shall report unit acquisition costs using records that
   are part of the prescribed property or financial control system as
   provided in this section. Fabrication costs shall be based on approved
   systems or procedures and include all direct and indirect costs of
   fabrication.

   (e) Only modifications that improve an item’s capacity or extend its
   useful life two years or more and that cost $100,000 or more shall be
   reported on the NF 1018 on the $100,000 & Over line. The costs of any
   other modifications, excluding routine maintenance, will be reported on
   the Under $100,000 line. If an item’s original unit acquisition cost is
   less than $100,000, but a single subsequent modification costs $100,000
   or more, that modification only will be reported as an item $100,000 or
   more on subsequent NF 1018s. The original acquisition cost of the item
   will continue to be included in the under $100,000 total. The quantity
   for the modified item will remain "1" and be reported with the original
   acquisition cost of the item. If an item’s acquisition cost is reduced
   by removal of components so that its remaining acquisition cost is
   under $100,000, it shall be reported as under $100,000.

   (f) The computation of work in process shall include all direct and
   indirect costs of fabrication, including associated systems,
   subsystems, and spare parts and components furnished or acquired and
   charged to work in process pending incorporation into a finished item.
   These types of items make up what is sometimes called production
   inventory and include programmed extra units to cover replacement
   during the fabrication process (production spares). Also included are
   deliverable items on which the contractor or a subcontractor has begun
   work, and materials issued from inventory. Work in Process shall
   include the unit acquisition cost of completed end items of property
   which otherwise meet the definition of Agency-Peculiar Property, but
   which are destined for permanent operation in space, such as satellites
   and space probes.

   1845.7101-4   Types of deletions from contractor property records.
   Contractors shall report the types of deletions from contract property
   records as described in this section.

   (a) Lost, Damaged or Destroyed. Deletion amounts that result from
   relief from responsibility under FAR 45.503 granted during the
   reporting period.

   (b) Transferred in Place. Deletion amounts that result from transfer of
   property to a follow-on prime contract or other prime contract with the
   same contractor.

   (c) Transferred to NASA Center Accountability. Deletion amounts that
   result from transfer of accountability to the NASA Center responsible
   for the contract, whether or not items are physically moved.

   (d) Transferred to Another NASA Center. Deletion amounts that result
   from transfer of accountability to a NASA Center other than the one
   responsible for the contract, whether or not items are physically
   moved.

   (e) Transferred to Another Government Agency. Deletion amounts that
   result from transfer of property to another Government agency.

   (f) Purchased at Cost/Returned for Credit. Deletion amounts that result
   from contractor purchase or retention
   of contractor acquired property as provided in FAR 45.605-1, or from
   contractor returns to suppliers under FAR 45.605-2.

   (g) Disposed of Through Plant Clearance Process. Deletions other than
   transfers within the Federal Government, e.g., donations to eligible
   recipients, sold at less than cost, or abandoned/directed destruction.

   (h) Other. Types of deletion other than those reported in paragraph (a)
   through (g) of this section such as those resulting from
   reclassifications (e.g. from equipment to agency-peculiar property).

   1845.7101-5 Contractor's privileged financial and business information.

   If a transfer of property between contractors involves disclosing costs
   of a proprietary nature, the contractor shall furnish unit acquisition
   costs only on copies of shipping documents sent to the shipping and
   receiving NASA Centers.

   1845.7102 Instructions for preparing DD Form 1419.
        (a)  The contractor shall enter the essential information covering
   Sections I and II before submission of DD Form 1419, DOD Industrial
   Plant Equipment Requisition, to the Industrial Property Officer (IPO).
   The IPO shall review each submission for completeness and authenticity.
   Incomplete or invalid requests shall be returned for correction.
        (b)  When a suitable item is allocated in Section IV, inspection
   of the equipment is recommended. Notification of acceptance or
   rejection of the item offered must reach NASA within 30 days after
   allocation. A copy of the DD Form 1419, or equivalent format, will
   serve as the clearance document to inspect the equipment at the storage
   site. Note acceptance or rejection of the item, without inspection or
   after inspection in Section VI. If the item is acceptable, execute
   Section VII. Cite the NASA appropriation symbol where applicable in
   Section VII.
        (c)  The IPO shall assign a requisition number to each DD Form
   1419, or equivalent format request.
        (d)  Next will be a four-digit entry comprised of the last digit
   of the current calendar year and the Julian date of the year. For
   example, April 15, 1997, would be written as 7095 (April 15 being the
   95th day of the year). The last entry will be a four-digit number from
   0001 to 9999 to sequentially number requisition forms prepared on the
   same date. For example, the ninth requisition prepared on April 15,
   1997, would be 7095-0009, preceded by the FEDSTRIP/MILSTRIP Activity
   Address Code. When submitting subsequent DD Forms 1419, or equivalent
   format, related to the item requested, the IPO shall use the same
   requisition number and add the alpha code to the end of the requisition
   number to indicate a second or third action on the basic request. Alpha
   "A" would indicate a second request, "B" a third, etc. In this manner,
   all actions, correspondence, etc., relative to a given request can be
   identified at all levels of processing by the use of the requisition
   number.
        (e)  Detailed directions for completing the DD Form 1419 follow.
   The contractor may elect to provide the required data in an equivalent
   format, which complies with these directions.

   Section I

   Item Description.
     To ensure adequate screening, the item description must be complete.
   For single-purpose equipment or general-purpose equipment with special
   features, requests must contain detailed descriptive data as to size
   and capacities, setting forth special operating features or particular
   operations required to be performed by the item.
       Block 1
       . Not applicable.
       Block 2. Enter the manufacturer's name and Federal Supply Code for
       manufacturer (Cataloging Handbook H4-1) of the item requested.
       Block 3. Enter the manufacturer's model, style, or catalog number
       assigned to the equipment being requisitioned. Always use the model
       number, if available. The style number is the next preference.
       Enter "None" in this block if the model, style or catalog number is
       not known.
       Block 4. Enter the first four digits of the National Stock Number,
       if known.
       Block 5. Not applicable.
       Block 6. Self-explanatory.
       Block 7. Place an "X" in the applicable block to indicate whether
       you desire to physically inspect the item before acceptance.
       Block 8. Self-explanatory.
       Block 9. Enter the complete description of the item. Continue the
       description in Block 53 if additional space is needed.

   Section II.
   Block 10.
       Enter the contractor's name, street address, city, state, and zip
       code from which the requisition is being initiated. The address
       should be the one to which inquiries of a technical nature will be
       referred. Specify the telephone number of an individual who will
       respond to inquiries concerning the request.
       Block 11. Enter the contract number or document number authorizing
       acquisition of the items shown in Section I. This normally will be
       a facility contract number. Otherwise, it should be a purchase
       order or procurement request number.
       Block 12. Self-explanatory.
       Block 13. Not applicable.
       Block 14. Disregard the "Military" block. Show the NASA contract
       number and program for which the item is to be used.
       Block 15. Enter the specific function to be performed by the
       equipment. When applicable, enter the tolerances, capacities,
       specifications, etc., that the equipment must satisfy.
       Block 16. Determine the date the item must be installed to meet
       production requirements. From this date deduct the estimated number
       of days required for installation. Enter the adjusted date in this
       block.
       Block 17. Enter the date by which NASA must issue a Certificate of
       Nonavailability. Determine the date by subtracting the acquisition
       lead time and 30 days administrative lead time from the date shown
       in Block 16.
       Block 18. Enter the Defense Priority and Allocations System (DPAS)
       rating assigned to the contract or anticipated purchase order, if
       applicable.
       Block 19. Place an "X" in the appropriate box. If for replacement,
       identify the item being replaced and the reason for replacement.
       Block 20. Place an "X" in the appropriate box. Show the
       appropriation symbol if the answer is "yes."
       Block 21. Not applicable.
       Blocks 22 and 23. In addition to the official's title and
       signature, type the signing official's name, office symbol or name,
       and telephone number plus extension. The company representative who
       prepares and submits the requirement to the cognizant NASA
       certifying office should sign.
       Block 24. Self-explanatory.
       Block 25a. Not applicable.
       Block 25b. Enter the name and address of the installation
       certifying the requirement.
       Block 25c. This block is for signature of the property
       administrator or contracting officer at plant level.
       Block 25d. Self-explanatory.
       Block 25e. This block is for the signature of NASA installation
       official certifying the requirement.
       Block 25f. Self-explanatory.

   Section III.
   Blocks 26-29.
       Self-explanatory.

   Section IV.
   N/A.

   Section V.
   Complete this section if equipment is unavailable.

   Section VI.
   Blocks 44-47.
       The requesting official signing Section II, Block 23, shall
       complete Section VI and shall list reasons for non-acceptance in
       Section VIII, Remarks, or on a separate document attached to the DD
       Form 1419.

   Section VII.
   Block 48.
       Enter the complete name, street address, city, state, and zip code
       of the contractor or installation to which the item is to be
       shipped. Indicate railhead and truck delivery points when other
       than the address named.
       Blocks 49 and 50. Self-explanatory.
       Blocks 51a. and b. Ensure that NASA appropriation symbols are
       included with the work order number.
       Block 51c. Enter the NASA appropriation symbol chargeable for any
       special work ordered (e.g., rebuild, repair, or accessory
       replacement).
       Block 51d. Enter the NASA installation and office symbol for the
       organization that will make payment for transportation and packing,
       crating, and handling.
       Block 52. Self-explanatory.

   Section VIII.

   Block 53
   . This block can be used to expand or explain entries made in Blocks 1
   through 52. When requisitioning equipment from excess listings,
   identify the issuing office, list number, date, control number, and
   item number assigned to the equipment. When requesting equipment from
   DOD inventories, refer to DOD instructions.

                Subpart 1845.72--Contract Property Management

   1845.7201   Definitions.
        "Supporting responsibility," as used in this subpart, relates to
   the assignment of a subcontract, or a portion of a prime contract being
   performed at a secondary location of the prime contractor, to a
   property administrator other than the individual assigned to the prime
   location.
        "Property control system," as used in this subpart, identifies a
   contractor's internal management program encompassing the protection
   of, preservation of, accounting for, and control of property from its
   acquisition through disposition.

   1845.7202   General.
        This subpart describes major elements of the NASA Contract
   Property Management Program. It provides guidance to NASA installation
   personnel responsible for NASA contract property (NASA personal
   property in the possession of contractors). It applies to all NASA
   installation personnel charged with this responsibility, including
   industrial property officers and specialists, property administrators,
   and plant clearance officers. It also provides detailed procedures for
   property administration. The NASA Contract Property Management Program
   includes the following three major elements:

        (a)  Performance of property administration and plant clearance by
   DOD under delegations from NASA, pursuant to 1842.101.
        (b)  Performance of property administration and plant clearance by
   NASA under certain situations, pursuant to 1842.203.
        (c)  Maintenance of property administration and plant clearance
   functional oversight, regardless of delegations.

   1845.7203   Delegations of property administration and plant clearance.
        When delegated to DOD, property administration and plant clearance
   are performed in accordance with DOD's regulations and procedures, as
   amended by the NASA Letter of Contract Administration Delegation,
   Special Instructions on Property Administration and Plant Clearance.
   These Special Instructions are developed by the Headquarters Office of
   Management Systems and Facilities Logistics Management Office (Code
   JLG), and are available from that office upon request. The contracting
   officer shall issue the Special Instructions with delegations whenever
   Government property will be involved. Additional or more tailored
   property instructions are not proscribed but must be coordinated with
   Code JLG before issuance.

   1845.7204   Retention of property administration and plant clearance.
        NASA may occasionally retain the property administration and plant
   clearance function, such as for contract work performed at the
   installation awarding the contract and not subject to the clause
   at 1852.245-71, Installation-Accountable Government Property. In these
   cases, property administration shall be performed in accordance with
   1845.3 through 1845.6, and plant clearance shall be performed in
   accordance with FAR Subpart 45.6 and 1845.6. Under the clause at
   1852.245-71, property administration and plant clearance are neither
   delegated nor retained; they are simply not required because the
   property is treated as installation rather than contract property.

   1845.7205   Functional oversight of property administration and plant
   clearance.
        NASA contracting officers retain functional management
   responsibility for their contracts. Utilization of the contract
   administration services of another Government agency in no way relieves
   NASA contracting officers of their ultimate responsibility for the
   proper and effective management of contracts. The functional management
   responsibility for contract property is described in this section.
   Beyond individual contracting officers, each NASA installation has
   designated an industrial property officer to manage and coordinate
   property matters among the various contracting officers, technical
   officials, contractor officials, and delegated property administrators
   and plant clearance officers. Generally, that individual is responsible
   for the entire contract property management function outlined below;
   the installation is responsible for the entire function regardless of
   how it is organized and distributed. The responsibilities are:

        (a)  Provide a focal point for all management of contract
   property, including Government property (Government-furnished and
   contractor-acquired) provided to universities as well as to industry.
        (b)  Provide guidance to contracting and other personnel on the
   NASA property provisions.
        (c)  To the extent feasible, review property provisions of
   acquisition plans, solicitations, contracts, and modifications for
   potential problems. Propose changes as necessary.
        (d)  To the extent feasible, participate in pre-award
   surveys/post-award orientations when significant amounts of Government
   property will be involved.
        (e)  Ensure that vesting-of-title determinations are made and
   documented pursuant to FAR 35.014(b).
        (f)  Maintain effective communications with delegated property
   administrators and plant clearance officers to keep fully informed
   about contractor performance and progress on any property control
   problems.
              (1)  Obtain and review property control system survey
   summaries for all contracts for which property administration has been
   delegated. Advise Code JLG of any severe or continuing problems.
              (2)  Provide property administrators copies of all pertinent
   contract property documentation.
        (g)  Review and analyze NASA Form 1018, NASA Property in the
   Custody of Contractors.
        (h)  Negotiate, or ensure the negotiation of, facilities contracts
   when required by FAR 45.302 and 1845.302. Advise Code JLG annually of
   new and completed facilities contracts.
        (i)  Review property administrators' approvals of relief of
   responsibility for lost, damaged, and destroyed property and question
   any excessive or repetitive approvals.
        (j)  When appropriate, make recommendations to source and
   performance evaluation boards regarding property management and award
   fee criteria and evaluations regarding property management.
        (k)  Monitor plant clearance status to preclude delays in contract
   closeout.
        (l)   Maintain contract property files for all transactions and
   correspondence associated with each contract. Upon receipt of Standard
   Form 1424, Inventory Disposal Report, and DD Form 1593, Contract
   Administration Completion Record, or equivalents, merge all property
   records for the contract and forward for inclusion with the official
   completed file.
        (m)  Perform on-site property administration and plant clearance
   when they are not delegated to DOD and the property is not subject to
   the clause at 1852.245-71.

   1845.7206   Responsibilities of property administrators and plant
   clearance
   officers.

   1845.7206-1   Property administrators.
        (a)  When property administration is not delegated to DOD, the
   property administrator shall evaluate the contractor's management and
   control of Government property and ascertain whether the contractor is
   effectively complying with the contract provisions. The property
   administrator's responsibilities include --
              (1)  Developing and applying a system survey program for
   each contractor under the property administrator's cognizance;
              (2)  Evaluating the contractor's property control system and
   approving or recommending disapproval;
              (3)  Advising the contracting officer of any (i) contractor
   noncompliance with approved procedures and (ii) other significant
   problems the property administrator cannot resolve, and recommending
   appropriate action, which may include disapproval of the contractor's
   property control system;
              (4)  Resolving property administration matters as necessary
   with the contractor's management, personnel from Government procurement
   and logistics activities, and representatives of the NASA Headquarters
   Office of the Inspector General, the Defense Contract Audit Agency
   (DCAA), and other Government agencies; and
              (5)  Recognizing the functions of other Government personnel
   having cognizance of Government property and obtaining their assistance
   when required. (These functions include, but are not limited to,
   contract audit, quality assurance, engineering, pricing, and other
   technical areas. Assistance and advice on matters involving analyses of
   the contractor's books and accounting records and on any other audit
   matters deemed appropriate shall be obtained from the cognizant
   auditor.)
        (b)  The participation of property administrators (or other
   Government industrial property personnel) in pre-award
   surveys/post-award orientations is required whenever significant
   amounts of Government property will be involved, in order to reveal and
   resolve property management problems early in the acquisition cycle.

   1845.7206-2   Plant clearance officers.
        When plant clearance is not delegated to DOD, NASA plant clearance
   officers shall be responsible for --

        (a)  Providing the contractor with instructions and advice
   regarding the proper preparation of inventory schedules;
        (b)  Accepting or rejecting inventory schedules;
        (c)  Conducting or arranging for inventory verification;
        (d)  Initiating prescribed screening and effecting resulting
   actions;
        (e)  Final plant clearance of contractor inventory;
        (f)   Pre-inventory scrap determinations, as appropriate;
        (g)  Evaluating the adequacy of the contractor's procedures for
   property disposal;
        (h)  Determining the method of disposal;
        (i)   Surveillance of any contractor-conducted sales;
        (j)   Accounting for all contractor inventory reported by the
   contractor;
        (k)  Advising and assisting, as appropriate, the contractor, the
   Supply and Equipment Management Officer (SEMO) and other Federal
   agencies in all actions relating to the proper and timely disposal of
   contractor inventory;
        (l)  Approving the method of sale, evaluating bids, and approving
   sale prices for any contractor-conducted sales;
        (m)  Recommending the reasonableness of selling expenses related
   to any contractor-conducted sales;
        (n)  Securing antitrust clearance, as required; and
        (o)  Advising the contracting officer on all property disposal
   matters.

   1845.7207   Declaration of excess property.
        A problem often disclosed by system analysis is the failure of a
   contractor to report Government property not needed in performance of
   the contract (excess). The property administrator shall fully document
   and report any such finding to the administrative contracting officer.
   After a report of excess received from a contractor has been referred
   to the plant clearance officer for screening and ultimate disposition,
   the property administrator shall ensure prompt disposition.  For
   centrally reportable plant equipment, the property administrator shall
   --

        (a)  Assure the preparation and submission of individual reports
   required of the contractor;
        (b)  Verify the permit certifications required by the forms; and
        (c)  Transmit the report to the NASA Industrial Property Officer.

   1845.7208   Closure of contracts.

   1845.7208-1   Completion or termination.
        Upon completion or termination of a contract, the property
   administrator shall --

        (a)  Monitor the actions of the contractor in returning excess
   Government property not referred to the plant clearance officer; and
        (b)  Advise the cognizant plant clearance officer as to the
   existence at a contractor's plant of residual property requiring
   disposal.

   1845.7208-2   Final review and closing of contracts.
        (a)  When informed that disposition of Government property under a
   contract has been completed, the property administrator shall perform a
   final review and sign a determination that --
              (1)  Disposition of Government property has been properly
   accomplished and documented;
              (2)  Adjustment documents, including any request of the
   contractor for relief from responsibility, have been processed to
   completion;
              (3)  Proceeds from disposals or other property transactions,
   including adjustments, have been properly credited to the contract or
   paid to the Government as directed by the contracting officer;
              (4)  All questions regarding title to property fabricated or
   acquired under the contract have been resolved and appropriately
   documented; and
              (5)  The contract property control record file is complete
   and ready for retirement.
        (b)  When final review pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section
   reveals that such action is proper, the property administrator shall
   accomplish and sign a DD Form 1593, Contract Administration Completion
   Record, or equivalent.
        (c)  The executed DD Form 1593 shall be forwarded to the
   contracting officer, the Property Summary Data Record shall be so
   annotated, and the contracting officer shall include it in the contract
   file.

   1845.7209   Special subjects.

   1845.7209-1   Government property at alternate locations of the prime
   contractor and subcontractor plants.
        (a)  Government property provided to a prime contractor may be
   located at other plants of the prime contractor or at subcontractor
   locations. The prime contractor is accountable and responsible to the
   Government for this property.
        (b)  A Government property administrator cognizant of the location
   of the property shall normally be designated to (1) perform required
   surveys of the property control system and  (2) exercise surveillance
   over the property as a supporting responsibility.
        (c)  If the property administrator determines that supporting
   property administration is required, he or she shall write the
   cognizant contract administration office asking that a property
   administrator be assigned. The request for supporting property
   administration shall include --
              (1)  The name and address of the prime contractor;
              (2)  The prime contract number;
              (3)  The name and address of the alternate location of the
   prime contractor, or of the subcontractor where the property will be
   located;
              (4)  A listing of the property being furnished, or, if
   property is being acquired locally, a statement to this effect; and
              (5)  A copy of the subcontract or other document under which
   the property will be furnished or acquired.
        (d)  Concurrent with the action cited in paragraph (c) of this
   section, the property administrator shall ascertain whether the prime
   contractor will perform the necessary reviews and surveillance with the
   contractor's own personnel, or elect to rely upon the system approval
   and continuing surveillance by a supporting property administrator of
   the property control system at the alternate location or subcontractor
   plant. If the prime contractor advises that it will accept the findings
   of a supporting property administrator, a statement in writing to that
   effect shall be obtained. If the prime contractor does not so elect, it
   shall be required to perform the requisite reviews and surveillance and
   document its actions and findings.
        (e)  If a single item or limited quantities of property will be
   located at an alternate location or subcontractor plant, the property
   administrator may determine that supporting property administration is
   unnecessary, provided --
              (1)  The prime contractor's records adequately reflect the
   location and use of the property;
              (2)  The nature of the property is such that the possibility
   of its use for unauthorized purposes is unlikely; and
              (3)  The nature of the property is such that a program of
   preventive maintenance is not required.
        (f)  When supporting property administration will not be
   requested, the services of a property administrator in the contract
   administration office cognizant of the site where the property is
   located may be requested on an occasional basis for special reviews or
   such other support as may be necessary. Repeated requests for
   assistance indicate a requirement for requesting supporting property
   administration.

   1845.7209-2   Loss, damage, or destruction of Government property.
        (a)  Normally, contract provisions provide for assumption of risk
   of loss, damage, or destruction of Government property as described by
   the following:
              (1)  Sealed-bid and certain negotiated fixed-price contracts
   provide that the contractor assumes the risk for all Government
   property provided under the contract (see the clause at FAR 52.245-2,
   Government Property (Fixed-Price Contracts)).
              (2)  Other negotiated fixed-price contracts provide that the
   contractor assumes the risk for all Government property provided under
   the contract, with the exceptions set forth in the clause at FAR
   52.245-2, Alternate I and Alternate II.
              (3)  Cost-reimbursement contracts (see the clause at FAR
   52.245-5, Government Property (Cost-Reimbursement, Time-and-Material,
   or Labor-Hour Contracts)) provide that the Government assumes the risk
   for all Government property p
