http://louisville.fbi.gov/contact/fo/louisville/lssac.htm

                            Jeffrey A. Lampinski

                            Jeffrey A. Lampinski
                           Special Agent in Charge

           Mr. Lampinski was born May 30, 1956, in Providence, Rhode
   Island, and received his early education in Pawtucket, Rhode Island.
   He earned his Bachelor's degrees in Business Administration and
   Criminal Justice in 1978 from Bryant College, Smithfield, Rhode Island.

           Mr. Lampinski was designated a Special Agent on February 24,
   1980.  Following training, he was assigned to the New Orleans,
   Louisiana, Office.  In March, 1981, he was transferred to the Boston,
   Massachusetts, Office where he served for eight years specializing in
   white collar crime.

           In September, 1987, he was transferred to the Criminal
   Investigative Division at FBI Headquarters as a White Collar Crimes
   Section supervisor.  In September, 1989, he was designated supervisor,
   White Collar Crime, Norfolk Division.

           In September, 1994, Mr. Lampinski was promoted to Assistant
   Special Agent in Charge of the New Orleans Field Office, where he
   assumed program management responsibilities in the White Collar Crime,
   Civil Rights, Domestic Terrorism, and National Foreign Intelligence
   Programs.

           In July, 1996, Mr. Lampinski was promoted to Section Chief,
   Information Resources Division, FBI Headquarters, where he managed
   Financial, Personnel, and other Headquarters automated systems
   development.  In December, 1996, he was designated FBI Inspector In
   Charge of an FBI-Department of Justice Campaign Finance Task Force,
   created to examine allegations of wrongdoing surrounding the 1996
   Presidential election cycle.

           In March, 1999, Mr. Lampinski was promoted to Special Agent in
   Charge of the Louisville Field Office.  He is married and has two
   daughters.  Prior to joining the FBI, he worked in public accounting
   and with the Intelligence Division, Internal Revenue Service.  He is a
   licensed Certified Public Accountant.

                      Link to FBI Louisville Home page
