http://exchanges.state.gov/education/citizens/

   U.S Dept. of State-Policy


      E   d   u   c   a   t   i   o   n   a   l      a   n   d      C   u
     l   t   u   r   a   l      A   f   f   a   i   r   s
      C i t i z e n   E x c h a n g e s

                                    Links
                                Requests for
                              Proposals (RFPs)
                                Professional
                                  Programs

                              Cultural Programs
                               Youth Programs
                               Near East/South
                            Asia/Africa Division
                               Europe/Eurasia
                                  Division
                             Program Objectives
                             Program Procedures
                                     ECA
                                  Homepage

     Program Overview

     The Office of Citizen Exchanges manages professional, youth, and
     cultural programs through grants with non-profit American
     institutions, including community organizations, professional
     associations, and universities. This partnership benefits thousands
     of Americans and foreign visitors taking part in exchanges at the
     grassroots level, both in the U.S. and abroad.

     Grants are awarded to American participants or nonprofit
     organizations, but individuals are encouraged to have foreign
     co-sponsors. Programs are based on competition, substantive rigor,
     and cross-cultural sensitivity.

     Program Objectives

     Grants are expected to result in:

     * Creating new or enhanced cross-cultural institutional links that
       may
       become self-sustaining
     * Imparting information about the United States to key overseas
       audiences
     * Increasing the American nonprofit community's international
       awareness
       and involvement
     * Stimulating nonprofit organizations' access to private-sector
       funding
     * Enhancing relevant overseas audiences' knowledge of American
       cultural traditions and values
     * Introducing ideas that contribute toward the solution of
       long-term international issues

     Program Procedures

     The Office supports programs taking place in the United States and
     overseas. Exchanges must demonstrate to foreign participants how
     Americans deal with issues of professional interest. In addition,
     the programs must be designed to give Americans an international and
     cross-cultural perspective and increased understanding of foreign
     needs and priorities. To accomplish these objectives, the programs
     are conducted by U.S. non-profit organizations that work with
     emerging leaders, young professionals and students.

     Funding opportunities are announced during the course of the fiscal
     year through a series of Requests for Proposals (RFPs).

     hr
     For further information, contact:
     Office of Citizen Exchanges (ECA/PE/C)
     Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs
     U.S. Department of State
     SA-44, 301 Fourth Street, S.W.
     Washington, D.C. 20547
     Telephone: 202-619-5348
     Fax: 202-619-4350
     hr
     Top of page
