http://www-fermi3.fnal.gov/snowmass96/snowmass96.html

                  The Accelerator Working Group at Snowmass

                 25 June - 12 July 1996, Snowmass, Colorado

The Snowmass Accelerator Working Group Convenors are:

    Steve Holmes, Fermilab

   Mike Harrison, BNL

   Ewan Paterson, SLAC

   Jonathan Wurtele, Berkeley

  Accelerator Working Group Goals and Organization

   The Accelerator Working Group will be organized into five sub-groups
   (all energies refer to center-of-mass):

   1. NLC (next linear collider, 0.5 upgradable to 1.5 TeV)

   2. Tev33 (Tevatron operating at 2 TeV, 10**33 luminosity)

   3. Muon Colliders (0.5 - >2.0 TeV)

   4. RLHC (Really Large Hadron Collider, >60 TeV)

   5. Advanced Accelerator Technologies (5 TeV electron collider)

   The convenors have met to establish a charge for each group, and to
   identify sub-group leaders. Sub-group leaders and the charge for each
   working group are:

  NLC

   Group Leaders: John Irwin and Tor Raubenheimer

   Charge: Discuss the prospects for achieving a 0.5 TeV linear collider
   and the R&D required. Examine issues related to energy upgrades in the
   1.0-1.5 TeV range.

  Tev33

   Group Leaders: Gerry Jackson and John Marriner

   Charge: Evaluate options for production of sufficient antiprotons to
   produce 10**33 in the Tevatron. Undertake a critical evaluation of
   Tevatron beam dynamics issues. Identify R&D required to support this
   upgrade.

  Muon Collider

   Group Leaders: Bob Palmer and Alvin Tollestrup

   Charge: Examine critical technology and physics issues in the strawman
   design. Discuss possible small scale experiments or demonstration
   projects that could validate operational principles. Identify issues
   relating to energy extensions.

  Really Large Hadron Collider (RLHC)

   Group Leaders: Gerry Dugan, Peter Limon, and Mike Syphers

   Charge: Examine both the high field and low field approaches to a
   hadron collider operating at >30 TeV/beam. Identify key technology and
   R&D issues that need to be pursued.

  Advanced Accelerator Technologies

   Group Leaders: Swapan Chattopadhyay and Dave Whittum

   Charge: Discuss and evaluate concepts for achieving 5 TeV
   (center-of-mass) e+e-Gamma collisions with luminosity of 10**35
   cm-2sec-1. Attention should be given to gradient, emittance, efficiency
   & collective effects. Promising R&D directions should be identified,
   particularly for power-sources, structures & instrumentation.

  Program

   The period from June 27-July 10 is the available working period at
   Snowmass. Each of the accelerator sub-groups will meet separately each
   morning, following a program organized by the group leaders. The
   Accelerator Working Group will convene as a whole each afternoon from
   2:30-5:00 so that everyone can be exposed to ideas being discussed in
   the other groups. These sessions will feature pre-arranged talks, an
   agenda of which will be determined before the start of the workshop. An
   attempt will be made by the convenors to mix up topics associated with
   these presentations in order to encourage communications between the
   various groups.

   The schedule each afternoon will look like:

   June 27-July 9

   2:30-3:15 Talk 1

   3:15-3:30 Discussion

   3:30-4:15 Talk 2

   4:15-4:30 Discussion

   4:30-5:00 Discussion of next day working group plans

   July 10

   2:30-5:00 Working Group Summary Presentations

   For further information feel free to contact any of the convenors or
   working group leaders.

   [homepage.gif] Fermi III Home Page

   Snowmass96 Working Groups & Accelerators for Physics Studies Page
