http://www.boe.ca.gov/info/tra.htm


   Welcome to California California Home
   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
               skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree



                 BOE Home
                 About BOE
                 Board Members
                 CA City and County Sales and Use Tax Rates
                 Forms & Publications
                 How to Contact BOE
                 Investigations Division
                 Jobs at BOE
                 Laws, Rules, Regulations
                 Local Tax Statements
                 Property Taxes
                 Sales and Use Tax Programs
                 Seller's Permit Verification
                 Special Tax Programs
                 Taxable Sales
                 Tax Appellate Programs
                 Taxpayers' Rights Advocate
                 Tax News




                   * Disclaimer
                   * Privacy Notice


                               Flex Your Power

             Learn How You Can Save Money - Be Energy Efficient



   California State Board of Equalization



                                                __________ search
                                            ( )  My CA (*)  BOE's Website


                         Taxpayers' Rights Advocate
     * Contacting the Taxpayers' Rights Advocate
     * Taxpayers' Bill of Rights Hearings
     * Taxpayers' Bill of Rights Annual Reports

                               Business Taxes

    The Taxpayers' Rights Advocate Office (TRA) facilitates resolution of
    taxpayer complaints and problems; monitors various Board tax and fee
    programs and property tax programs for compliance with the Taxpayers'
      Bill of Rights; handles projects at the request of the Executive
     Director; and recommends new or revisions to existing legislation,
    policies, or procedures, to enhance the Board's public service goals.

      Generally, the TRA Office helps taxpayers when they are unable to
   resolve a matter through normal channels, have difficulty in moving up
      the chain of command, or when they want information regarding the
   process or procedures relating to a particular set of circumstances or
                           regarding their rights.

      Taxpayers also call seeking assurances or confirmation that staff
   action is lawful and just. In cases where the law, policy, or procedure
      does not allow any change to the staff action, the TRA Office is
         alerted to a potential area which may need clarification or
   modification. Many of the past recommendations for policy or procedural
    changes, and legislative proposals, have resulted from contacts with
                                 taxpayers.

   Publication 70, The California Taxpayers' Bill of Rights, will give you
      more information on the program as it relates to business issues.

                               Property Taxes

   TRA staff provide guidance on how taxpayers can communicate better with
   state and county staff and less often on how staff can communicate with
   the taxpayer. Taxpayers are provided information so that they are on a
   level playing field with state and county staff. For information on the
     property taxes program we suggest that you contact the appropriate
    county offices: the assessor for assessment, exemption and valuation
   questions; the clerk of the board of supervisors for assessment appeals
    questions; the tax collector for questions about taxes and liens; and
             the auditor-controller about refunds and tax rates.

                                   History

   In January 1989, the original Taxpayers' Bill of Rights was established
       to ensure that the rights, privacy, and property of California
   taxpayers was adequately protected in the assessment and collection of
   sales and use taxes. Currently approximately one million taxpayers are
   provided protection under the law. Effective January 1993, the Special
       Taxes Bill of Rights was established, expanding Bill of Rights
     authority for the special taxes programs administered by the Board,
      currently impacting approximately 250,000 taxpayers. As the Board
   accepts responsibility for new special taxes and fee programs, the Bill
              of Rights protections are added for each program.

                               Property Taxes

   The Morgan Property Taxpayers' Bill of Rights went into effect January
       1, 1994. The legislative intent is to ensure that taxpayers are
      provided fair and understandable explanations of their rights and
       duties with respect to property taxation, prompt resolution of
    legitimate questions and appeals regarding their property taxes, and
        prompt corrections when errors have occurred in property tax
                                assessments.

                 Featured Links
                   * Board Meetings & Committee Information
                   * BOE Offices
                   * Electronic Services
                   * FAQ's
                   * Formal and Memorandum Opinions
                   * Legislation
                   * Offer in Compromise
                   * Other Useful Links
                   * Settlement Program
                   * Site Map


                             Back to Top of Page
      2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
