http://www.sfablueprint.ed.gov/pdf/communityfeedback.pdf

   Modernization Blueprint ~ CommunityFeedback CommunityID DateReceived
   Comment School 6/1/99 Security and privacy issues are noted, but not
   addressed in detail herein. In my experiences with clients (most
   notably parents) there needs to be a great push for gaining confidence
   in this area, particularly with web dependent projects to fully
   implement all aspects of the Blueprint successfully. 6/1/99 As I'm most
   interested in the plans for improving processes and relations with
   schools, I would like greater detail of "Julie's" experience in
   "Information at your Fingertips" within the Executive Summary (P.4)
   6/1/99 California Mentor and NYMentor are mentioned - My understanding
   is that there are other Mentor programs in other states that are up and
   running and I was curious as to why those weren't mentioned.
   Nevertheless, since all of the Mentor systems are new, not only
   mentioning what their goals are but what some of the early results have
   been might be encouraging (i.e. increase in minority applications,
   comments from students, etc.) Likewise with Colorado PEPPER. 6/1/99 The
   Executive Summary has an enthusiastic, positive yet constructive tone.
   I'd like to see mention of any difficulties experienced by some of the
   new programs/models presented - Access America, Mentor, PEPPER, channel
   management, etc. - have faced and the plan to meet these known
   challenges might be addressed.(Noting that brevity is important in
   theSummary). 6/1/99 Was there a way I could have answered all of these
   Exec Summary questions without having to submit them individually? It
   would also help if I could view the questions on the same page, while I
   was responding to them. Thanks for your committment to change - this is
   a respectable endeavor and we all look forward to the inevitable
   benefits. 6/1/99 While one goal is to contain costs of providing
   financial assistance, there may need to be additional dollar amounts
   included in the executive summary. While there is mention that certain
   practices will be long-term cost saving, there's not enough information
   to ascertain the extent to which taxpayer dollars may be saved. 6/1/99
   it just keeping getting better 6/23/99 Liked BP, easy to read, well
   organized, Process Flow diagram on IV-17 is great. Liked links.
   Blueprint should have a more detailed Table of contents for the whole
   document. Financial Institution Monday, September 27, 1999 Page 1 of 56
   CommunityID DateReceived Comment IV-197 System Capabilities,
   Requirement Number 2000-2522  The Blueprint includes references to
   automatic payroll deduction and shows information flowing to (but not
   from) the Federal Employee Payroll System. It is unclear if this is for
   debit of student loan payments from earnings or to facilitate
   collection of unpaid loans from federal employees through wage
   garnishment. Further, the documentation is not clear as to whether this
   information is available to FFELP loan holders, especially guarantors
   collecting on defaulted FFELP loans. V-43 799 On The Web  NCHELP
   supports the elimination of manual processes as long as ED works with
   the subject matter experts to develop a method/process that simplifies
   what is currently being performed. ED should discuss with loan holders
   and servicers whether web, FTP, or other electronic means best meets
   their needs. V-43 Reengineer Aggregate Formulas and Calculations  ED
   should work closely with guarantors, lenders, and servicers to reach
   consensus before changing annual and aggregate borrowing
   calculations/formulas. All of the listed parties have these edits
   programmed into their systems. V-44 Financial Institution Services
   Architecture Changes  The FFELP tombstone does not contain the
   clarification of "Transformed" as reflected in the school services
   section. V-45 Direct Report from Lender to NSLDS  This section of the
   Blueprint does not take into consideration the existing
   inter-relationships between FFELP participants. Further, the text
   should reference guarantors, servicers and loan holders. In addition,
   the Blueprint should clearly outline what information is included in
   this item. V-46 Financial Management  No reference is made to the
   current Forms 2000 project. At the request of the Financial Management
   department of ED, guarantors have been working with ED for more than a
   year to develop a new form (Forms 2000) to replace the existing 1189
   and 1130 reports. NCHELP strongly recommends that this work continue
   and that efforts to change the existing reports be curtailed. The
   decision to stop work on Forms 2000 was ED's decision made in July
   1999. V-41 Initiate Performance Indicators for Voluntary Flexibility
   Agreements with Guaranty Agencies  The word "Flexibility" should be
   replaced with "Flexible". In addition, in the "Impact..." section, the
   phrase "streamline financial payment process to guaranty agencies" is
   misplace; it has nothing to do with VFAs. Rather, it should be a
   separate project with Forms 2000 development listed in the Impact
   section. The Blueprint notes that "Interfaces" will provide a common
   face to students, schools, and financial institutions regardless of the
   means they use to interact. While this would seem to be desirable, most
   people question how this can be done and still achieve many of the
   modernization goals that are being purposed. Further explanation is
   needed to make this believable. V-27 Demographic Feed from CPS to FAFSA
    There is insufficient detail to determine if changes by the NSLDS
   would actually improve the process. We believe that ED should work with
   its financial partners to develop a project to work through this
   process. Monday, September 27, 1999 Page 2 of 56 CommunityID
   DateReceived Comment V-53 Common Origination and Disbursement process
   The Blueprint indicates that all origination and disbursement
   activities will be performed by ED (SAM). While that scenario holds
   true for FDLP, the Blueprint should indicate that lenders and
   guarantors will continue to perform this function for FFELP. V-41 All
   Enrolled Data  See comments on V-14. In addition, having the FDLP
   servicer report to the NSLC could reduce FDLP technical defaults;
   however, it does not accomplish an All-Enrolled Database. An
   All-Enrolled Database could only be accomplished if every college
   reports to a single source. Therefore, the project description should
   be "Reduce FDLP technical defaults". V-34 Consolidated Customer Call
   Center  ED should clarify that this provision pertains only the FDLP
   consolidation program. ED is not the appropriate contact for all school
   questions and complaints. V-28 School Services  ED should define
   "community" in this context. V-37 Financial Institution Services; 2 nd
   paragraph  ED states that the current set of processes and applications
   will be transformed "...into a common, integrated set of
   processes...for all financial programs". If this text refers to ED
   systems only, then it should be clearly stated. As it currently reads,
   the language implies that ED is creating a single database. V-27 Assist
   Loan Servicers with Portfolio Management  What does this mean, how will
   ED assist, and who constitutes "loan servicers"? Further, what tools
   and data will be provided and what is the expected action? V-27 Analyze
   and Initiate Online Exit Counseling  The Project description states
   "Analyze and Initiate Online Exit Counseling" while the "Impact..."
   section states that ED is planning to inform the student of the
   implication of taking out Federal Student Loans  that is, the
   "implication" information would be provided before a student borrows
   funds. Also, in "Impact...", ED again states that this process will be
   provided through a single system which clearly does not support the
   concept of a virtual database. V-27 Improve Aid Overpayment Function
   ED should permit its financial partners to load aid records to NSLDS
   and establish a process with the Social Security Administration to
   verify and resolve student identifier conflicts. V-26 FFELP Tombstone
   ED should clarify what is meant by the term "transformed". IV-163 Need
   Based Planning, Item 07  The word "Endures" should be "Ensures". IV-166
   Contract Management  It is unclear as to the process for transitioning
   from old contracts or eliminating/terminating existing contractors for
   poor performance. V-34 Improve SSCR Data Flow to Servicers  OSFA and
   its partners (including but not limited to the NSLC, guarantors,
   lenders, and servicers) should work collaboratively to improve the flow
   of SSCR data to all parties that need the data. Monday, September 27,
   1999 Page 3 of 56 CommunityID DateReceived Comment V-34 Improve
   "Notional" Default Rate System  The word "National" is misspelled in
   the current text. 4/30/99 CBA believes strongly that a Blueprint for
   modernization appropriately deliniating the roles of government,
   institutions, and financial participants in the Title IV program should
   guide all work at ED on Modernization. In this regard, CBA believes the
   following are essential steps for assuring the development of a
   Blueprint that will be supported broadly within the FFEL lender
   community. 1. Federal acquisition and maintenance of student loan data
   should be clearly defined and limited - What is Federal data and what
   is servicer/guarantor/lender data should be clearly defined by the PBO
   for the Blueprint for Modernization and for future phases of Access
   America and other pilot projects. Federal data for the purposes of the
   Federal Family Education Loan Program should be limited to disbursement
   level data, such as the date and the amount 4/30/99 CBA believes
   strongly that a Blueprint for modernization appropriately deliniating
   the roles of government, institutions, and financial participants in
   the Title IV program should guide all work at ED on Modernization. In
   this regard, CBA believes the following are essential steps for
   assuring the development of a Blueprint that will be supported broadly
   within the FFEL lender community. 3) Financial Transactions involved in
   the FFEL program should be supported by the Student Account Manager
   (SAM), but financial transactions should continue to be exclusively
   provided in FFEL by lenders, guaranty agencies, and servicers. The SAM,
   both as developed for the Access America pilot project and to the
   extent incorporated into the Blueprint for Modernization, should be
   designed to facilitate data exchanges between students, the Department
   of Education, and others involved in the Title IV programs. The SAM
   should not include state scholarship data, enrollment data, or any
   other data not specifically necessary for the administration of the
   Title IV programs. 4/30/99 CBA believes strongly that a Blueprint for
   modernization appropriately deliniating the roles of government,
   institutions, and financial participants in the Title IV program should
   guide all work at ED on Modernization. In this regard, CBA believes the
   following are essential steps for assuring the development of a
   Blueprint that will be supported broadly within the FFEL lender
   community. 2) Fee-for-service authority supporting the use of the
   services of Mutual Benefit Corporations and similar organizations
   should be fully utilized. The Higher Education Act provided the PBO
   with authority to enter into fee-for-service arrangements to acquire
   services in support of a modernized Title IV delivery system. The PBO
   should use such authority to acquire these services such as those
   offered by the National Student Loan Clearinghouse. These services
   should be used by ED, both in Access America and in the implementation
   of the Blueprint for modernization. 5/28/99 Folks from the National
   Student Loan Clearinghouse report they are encouraged by recent
   meetings with you. They point out that in implementing the
   Modernization Blueprint you have a path for contracting with the
   Clearinghouse to provide the "all-enrolled database." Wyoming Student
   Loan Corporation supports this idea. Therefore, to use the
   Clearinghouse as the "all-enrolled database" is an effort we would
   certainly applaud. 6/3/99 Noted that Mr. Woods cover leter of May 31st,
   for the five chapters of the modernization plan as revised from the
   first draft, stated in the first bullet that one could "View and
   download the Modernization Blueprint in its entirety or by chapters."
   Yep, you can view or download by chapters, but I may be missing the
   hyperlink that allows for an Adobe view or download of the entire
   document. Just curious. 6/7/99 The National Student Loan Clearinghouse
   enthusiastically support the Blueprint and its aggressive plan of
   action. The specificity of the Plan demonstrates that a lot of thought
   has gone into the Plan and that augers well for sucessful
   implementation. Monday, September 27, 1999 Page 4 of 56 CommunityID
   DateReceived Comment 6/18/99 Move away from terminology that implies
   the creation of a "centralized" database 1. Page 2, Middle Column, Last
   Full Paragraph: Describes an Electronic Student Account that could
   provide centralized processing for student aid disbursement, loan
   origination and repayment. 2. Page 3, Right Column, Last Full
   Paragraph: Describes a centralized process for obtaining signatures on
   loan promissory notes. 3. Page 4, Left Column, Last Paragraph:
   Describes a centralized process for storing and administering student
   account information such as enrollment, disbursement and repayment
   transactions. 4. Page 5, Left Column, Second Paragraph: Describes a
   centralized processes for origination and disbursement, loan portfolio
   status, deferment processing and financial transaction processing. 5.
   Page 5, Left Column, Last Paragraph: Describes a single, shared source
   of data about institution's loan portfolios. 6. Page III-7, First
   Bullet: Describes a centralized student account that will track
   enrollment, disbursement and repayment transaction information. This
   would consolidate information across lenders into a centralized
   account. 7. Page III-8, First Bullet: Implies a single "origination and
   disbursement process." 8. Page III-12, First Bullet: Describes a
   centralization of the relationships with lenders, schools and OSFA
   under one student master account, "providing a single point of contact
   for students to interact with education service providers." 9. Page
   III-16, First Full Paragraph: Describes a centralized process for
   "authorization of disbursements." 10. Page III-16, Second Paragraph:
   Describes a centralized process which "offers counseling to and
   collects money from borrowers who have entered repayment, provides
   invoices, processes loan consolidation requests, and attempts
   collection on defaulted loans." 11. Page III-29, Second Paragraph:
   States that "OSFA will serve as a central administrator for the
   student's aid application needs, performing a range of duties, from
   holding student authorizations for access to classified information to
   generating promissory notes from a lender of the student's choice." 12.
   Page III-31, Second Paragraph: Describes a centralized application
   process which would include maintenance of multi-year promissory notes.
   13. Page III-32, Tenth Paragraph: Describes a centralized application
   process that would include management of applications received, and
   maintenance of information such as borrower authorizations to endorse
   financial aid applications and multi-year promissory notes. 14. Page
   III-33, Business Requirement ID's 1720-1742: Describes a centralized
   process for the management of Federal Family Education Loan Program
   (FFELP) loan applications and promissory notes. 15. Page III-37, First
   Paragraph: Describes a common origination record for FFELP loans which
   would receive an acceptance decision from a lender and forward it to
   the school. 16. Page III-37, Third Paragraph: Describes a centralized
   process for receiving, storing and distributing borrower
   authorizations. 17. Page III-37, Last Paragraph: Describes a
   centralized process for obtaining enrollment data from schools and
   forwarding such data onto lenders and guaranty agencies. 18. Page
   III-38, First Four Paragraphs: Describes a common origination record
   for FFELP loans which would receive an acceptance decision from a
   lender and forward it to the school. Also describes a centralized
   process for disbursements, adjustments and cancellations. 19. Page
   III-39, Tenth Paragraph: Describes a centralized process for receiving,
   storing and distributing borrower authorizations. 20. Page III-41,
   Business Requirement ID's 1224-1600: Describes a centralized process
   for managing lender Monday, September 27, 1999 Page 5 of 56 CommunityID
   DateReceived Comment disbursement information which would include
   receiving disbursement records, origination records, adjustments and
   cancellations, and providing disbursement rosters to schools. 21. Page
   III-57, Business Requirement ID's 2240-AR-07.03: Describes a
   centralized process for management of consolidation loan information,
   including providing lists of authorized loan holders, receipt of loan
   consolidation requests, determining which loans are eligible for
   consolidation, and notifying loan holders of acceptance or rejection of
   submitted consolidation requests. 22. Page III-82, First Paragraph:
   Describes an additional lender participation requirement -- "sets
   lender participation levels for loan programs based on financial
   metrics such as reserve ratios, capitalization and other loan program
   commitments." 23. Page III-84, Second Paragraph: Describes an
   additional lender participation requirement -- "sets lender
   participation levels in the FFELP program based on lender performance
   as determined through internal and external program reviews, audits and
   other forms of performance monitoring conducted by ED." 24. Page
   III-85, Eighth Paragraph: Describes an additional lender participation
   requirement -- "sets lender participation levels in the FFELP program
   based on lender performance as determined through internal and external
   program reviews, audits and other forms of performance monitoring
   conducted by ED." 25. Page IV-4, First paragraph: Describes a
   centralized process for maintenance of participant signature
   authorizations, multi-year promissory notes, and waivers to release
   information. 26. Page IV-13, First Paragraph: Describes a centralized
   process for "student-level origination and disbursement records." 27.
   Page IV-76, ABB#13: Identifies centralized "FFEL Disbursement
   Information Management." 28. Page V-29, First Paragraph: Describes an
   Access America pilot that will centralize a loan origination subsystem
   providing origination data that will enable the Student Account Manager
   to perform disbursements. 7/1/99 Two things of concern: Students
   relying on the Student Account Manager as the "single point of contact
   for information, statements, and customer service concerning their
   Federal student financial assitance funds". Second, the goal of having
   the SAM "deliver Federal student financial assistance funds to the
   education institution at which the student is enrolled." The SAM is
   only on potential mechanism for providing valuable information to
   students. The FFELP participants already provide a great deal of
   information to student borrowers in a timely fashion. Further, the SAM
   should not be the means by which the Department provides any funds. The
   task of collection information is a difficult task. The Department has
   been attempting to collect a great deal of information in the NSLDS,
   and is itseld aware of the difficulty of collecting the information.
   Dispersing funds as well is simply too large a step at this time. Put
   simply, the Modernization Blueprint and Access America must first focus
   on controlling the data in ED's systems. We understand that the SAM is
   a pilot and is a devloping concept. Therefore, it would be important
   that EFC and other loan providers continue as key constituents in the
   Department's on-going development initiatives. Thank you. 7/1/99 The
   Education Finance Council (EFC) supports efforts to use technology to
   simplify the delivery system and to provide susdents with greater
   access to loan abd other financial aid data. We also support the
   intended purpose of the technology investments to reduce governmental
   costs. We believe the Student Account manager (SAM) should focus on
   providing access to data and should not serve to be a central mechanism
   for loan processing or fund distribution. Loan providers have systems
   that directly interface with institutions and in many cases offer
   Internet-based student access. These mechanisms should continue to
   serve as the primary interface with students and campuses. Monday,
   September 27, 1999 Page 6 of 56 CommunityID DateReceived Comment
   7/21/99 Page III-15. The text implies that ED will service repayment
   loans as well as take on the task of counseling them on repayment
   options. Also, the text implies that the major decisions have been made
   on how these tasks will be performed. Again, how the development of
   business rules and standards fits in is unclear. 7/21/99 Page IV-25 and
   elsewhere. The text references "Aid Organizations." What are "Aid
   Organizations?" 7/21/99 Page III-19. The text implies a much-expanded
   role for ED is setting lender eligibility by noting "Program
   Eligibility then sets lender participation levels for loan programs
   based on financial metrics such as reserve ratios, capitalization and
   other loan program commitments. The lender participation levels may be
   revised over the course of the lender relationship with OSFA." CBA
   questions this new function for OSFA, which may be described as a
   dramatic new layer of regulation. Given ED's role as the direct
   competitor of FFEL through the Direct Loan program, its ability to
   objectively carry out this function is highly questionable. 7/21/99
   Page III-39. The process description clearly implies that OSFA will
   administer a large federal system that would include the assumption of
   many functions currently performed by lenders, guarantors, and
   third-party servicers in FFEL. The text on page III-39 and in the
   detailed descriptions that follow need to be substantially modified to
   clarify that ED does not propose performing servicing and other
   essential functions on FFEL loans. 7/21/99 Page IV-89. In requirement
   1230, the text notes, "SFA uses a common integrated origination,
   payment, and reconciliation process for all Title IV student financial
   assistance programs between schools and aid organizations." This text
   implies OSFA will originate FFEL loans as well as perform other
   functions on them. The text should be modified to reflect that OSFA
   will not perform these functions on FFEL loans. 7/21/99 Page III-23.
   The discussion of IT Management should include a discussion of the use
   of fee-for-service arrangements, such as OSFA's planned use of the
   National Student Loan Clearinghouse for the all-enrolled database.
   7/21/99 Page III-24. The discussion of contract and acquisition
   management should include a discussion of the use of fee-for-service
   arrangements. 7/21/99 Page III-27. Dramatically increased involvement
   of OSFA in aid awareness represents yet another new activity for OSFA.
   Given the very significant work underway in the private sector, OSFA
   should consider reducing its planned role in this function. OSFA's
   primary concentration should be on systems re-engineering, not on
   expanding its role in the program. 7/21/99 Page III-32. This section
   implies that OSFA will handle all aspects of aid application, including
   generating promissory notes from a lender of the student's choice. This
   section should be substantially revised to indicate that the process
   described applies to Direct Loans, Pell Grants and the FAFSA. The
   section should note that in FFEL, only data on disbursement will be
   provided to OSFA. Origination process status should not be included in
   the Blueprint because this function should be performed by the private
   sector. OSFA may have links to lender information on this, but this
   would be the extent of their involvement. 7/21/99 Page III-35. The text
   indicates that OSFA will seek changes to the law and regulations
   relating to the design and distribution of application forms. Business
   requirement AA-01.01 notes that "Design and Distribution of Application
   Forms supports the creation of a core design team, including members of
   the education community and the Department of Education." Monday,
   September 27, 1999 Page 7 of 56 CommunityID DateReceived Comment
   7/21/99 Page III-75. Subprocess Name OD-01 and OD-16 imply that OSFA
   will perform key functions in the origination process for FFEL loans
   currently performed by lenders and servicers. The text should be
   clarified to indicate OSFA will not perform these services on FFEL
   loans. 7/21/99 Page III-87. As noted above, the text implies a new
   function consisting of setting lender participation levels. CBA does
   not support OSFA assuming this new, major program function. As the
   primary competitor of FFEL lenders, OSFA is ill-positioned to
   objectively perform this unnecessary function. 7/21/99 Page III-144.
   The text should be modified to reference how standards are to be
   developed. A reference to standard setting organizations, such as NACHA
   should be added to the text. 7/21/99 Page III-138. Business requirement
   HR-02.05. The text references "contingency pay." The definition of
   "contingency pay" is unclear. 7/21/99 Page III-47. Business requirement
   AR-03 again suggests the Federal government will assume responsibility
   for a major FFEL servicing responsibility. The language needs to be
   corrected. 7/21/99 Page III-147. Business Requirement ID IT-01.09. The
   text should be modified to clearly reflect that the costs analyzed will
   include the costs associated with the introduction of new standards and
   technology will include analysis of the costs borne by schools and ED's
   financial partners in FFEL. 7/21/99 Page III-150. Business Requirement
   IT-08. The text does not adequately reflect the intent of Congress that
   OSFA should support the development of industry standards. As written,
   the text could be read as de-emphasizing this statutory requirement.
   7/21/99 Page IV-95. The chart should clarify that ED will not perform
   the same functions on FFEL and Direct Loans. 7/21/99 Page IV-141. The
   text notes, "ED/Partner Relationships not conducive to providing the
   best possible Customer service." CBA would be interested in knowing how
   OSFA reached this conclusion. 7/21/99 Page IV-18 and IV-21. Process
   Flow 28 may assume a larger function in loan consolidation than is
   appropriate. The process flow could be read as reflecting an assumed
   very active promotion of ICR. This function has major policy
   ramifications and should not be included. Please note that if the
   process flow is read as simply reflecting services relating to Direct
   Consolidation loans after the borrower has chosen this option, the
   reference is not a problem. 7/21/99 Page III-12. The text notes, "OSFA
   Student Services handles all interactions with students, providing them
   with convenient access to aid application information, forms, and
   account data." This text appears to reflect a very significant
   expansion of functions by OSFA inconsistent with representations made
   earlier by OSFA that the virtual student account would be accomplished
   through data switches reflecting common business 7/21/99 Page III-8.
   The text states that "OSFA and its financial partners will take
   advantage of commercially available systems and services to `Create a
   simple origination and disbursement process." This implies OSFA will
   orchestrate or administer this function. CBA believes strongly that the
   only role for OSFA in the FFEL program should be encouraging the
   development of common business rules and standards. Monday, September
   27, 1999 Page 8 of 56 CommunityID DateReceived Comment 7/21/99 Page
   III-11. The second bullet notes, "Services provided to schools and
   financial institutions indirectly benefit students." OSFA should
   recognize that services provided by schools and financial institutions
   directly benefit students. This language should be changed. All parties
   should be focused on the customer, the student. All must work together
   to achieve the goal of improved services. Financial institutions and
   schools are an essential part of a system of which OSFA is only a part.
   7/21/99 Page IV-32 and page IV-39. The involvement of the Department of
   Agriculture and the Department of Interior is unclear. Why are they on
   these charts? 7/21/99 Page IV-33. The process flow includes "Treasury
   interest rates approval for portfolio sale." What does this 7/21/99
   Page III-53. Business requirement 2180 states that OSFA will manage
   FFELP loan consolidation. The requirement should be modified to
   eliminate reference to FFELP consolidation. 7/21/99 Page III-11. The
   fourth bullet notes, "OSFA will measure its performance against three
   primary objectives: increasing customer satisfaction, increasing
   employee satisfaction, and reducing the overall cost of student
   financial assistance." While these are described as the "primary"
   measurements, it is worth noting that two of the three do not
   necessarily contribute to customer satisfaction and may work against
   it. We would suggest that OSFA have a single performance standard:
   Increasing customer satisfaction while increasing employee and partner
   satisfaction and reducing the cost of the student assistance programs.
   7/21/99 Page IV-76. As noted above, the text implies ED involvement in
   FFEL loan repayment servicing. ABB # 17 through 22 should reflect the
   differences between functions in FFEL and FDSL. 7/21/99 Page III-97.
   Business requirement FI-06.01. The word "ration" should be "ratio" in
   the second bullet. 7/21/99 Page IV-49 and IV-51. As noted above, CBA
   does not support these new program functions relating to the
   determination of lender eligibility and suggests, strongly, they be
   deleted from the Blueprint. 7/21/99 Page V-9. The heading "Aid
   Origination and Disbursement" references "Major Rebuild to Current
   Origination and Disbursement System." The text should be modified to
   reference the FDSL origination and disbursement 7/22/99 V- 10 Financial
   Management 2000-2001 - We concur with the concept of allowing web
   submittal of information for processing the interest and special
   allowance form. 7/22/99 V-6 Applications - Again, it is unclear as to
   what processes ED is proposing to provide, particularly as it relates
   to the FFELP. 7/22/99 V-6 Applications - ED should work to reduce
   redundancy of data whenever possible. 7/22/99 V-6 Interfaces - We
   concur that we must have the same set of services for our customers,
   regardless of how delivered. 7/22/99 V-6 Interfaces- When the Blueprint
   refers to common services for all financial aid programs, it is unclear
   as to the extent of these "common services". 7/22/99 IV-138 -
   ED/Partner Relationship Issues - The Blueprint fails to recognize that
   by ED including their partners (lenders, guarantors, secondary markets,
   and services), along with their best practices, in the design and
   delivery of the new system, relationships will be strengthened and
   customer service will be heightened. Monday, September 27, 1999 Page 9
   of 56 CommunityID DateReceived Comment 7/22/99 V-6 Data Integration -
   It is unclear as to whether ED intends to actively access partner
   systems or transfer data to a central data warehouse. Without more
   detail, it is difficult to assess whether this can be accomplished by
   next year, particularly because it involves such a large and
   diversified community. 7/22/99 V-6 Data Integration - ED should not
   attempt to create yet another national database. Rather, the data
   should be distributed and must be up-to-date. 7/22/99 V-8 - ED should
   add "Web page interface for Form 2000" to the 1999/2000 academic year.
   7/22/99 V-8 Item. 8 - As stated previously, the National Student Loan
   Clearinghouse (NSLC) has already established an all enrolled database
   that contains information on 75% of the students enrolled in the US.
   7/22/99 IV-136 - There are references to information presented in color
   that most readers are not going to be viewing/reviewing in color.
   7/22/99 V-9 Aid Awareness 2000-2001 - ED should add language to
   encourage savings. 7/22/99 V-10 Financial Transactions Row, 1999-2000
   Column - If the plan is to create a "single face" for customers,
   schools should be able to request a similar just-in-time disbursement
   for FFELP. The processing differences (including systems) could be
   behind the scenes. As such, we recommend that FFELP be added. 7/22/99
   V-11 Financial Management Row, 1999-2000 Column - (see response to
   V-10) 7/22/99 V-12 Task labeled "Direct Loan Exit Counseling Material"
   - Similar to V-10, if the plan is to create a "single face" for
   customers, then borrowers should be able to have repayment counseling
   over the Internet, regardless of whether they have an FDLP or FFELP
   loan. The processing differences (including systems) could be behind
   the scenes. We recommend adding FFELP. 7/22/99 V-12 - Given that we are
   already into this time frame, ED should include an update as to the
   status of this phase. V-13 Item #14 (see response to V-12) 7/22/99 V-13
   Online Help Wizard - Again, it is unclear who is in the driver's seat
   here, the Department or the school. The school should be the first
   call. 7/22/99 V- 9 Aid Application1999-2000 - It is unclear as to who
   will be in control here, ED or the school. We believe that the school
   should remain the most important contact in the process. 7/22/99 III-
   96 (FI-06-3882) - The Blueprint should define the methodological
   alternatives for determining "life-long" default rates and who would
   conduct such a longitudinal exercise. 7/22/99 III-122 General Ledger
   Management (FS-02-5320) - The Blueprint states "Tracks debits and
   credits on the GA and lender level for FFELP". This process should not
   include any activity that is not included on the flow diagram on page
   III-99 7/22/99 III-113 Performance Management - Financial Management -
   According to the Blueprint, "This function contains all of the
   activities that OSFA must perform to fulfill this vision. Included in
   the financial management function are the traditional accounting
   activities necessary to manage the flow of funds between OSFA, schools,
   financial institutions and other governmental agencies...". Based on
   that statement, we are unclear as to how this fits with the Student
   Account Manager. Again, we state the same concern that for FFELP, the
   interface must be for data only and not dollars for most activities
   (other than when OSFA is reimbursing the guarantor Monday, September
   27, 1999 Page 10 of 56 CommunityID DateReceived Comment 7/22/99 III-102
   Manage LEAPP Application and Authorization (FI-11 & Fi-12) - There is a
   business requirement listed under both FI-11 (1587) and FI-12 (1587).
   The same activity should not be listed under more than one function in
   order to eliminate redundancy. 7/22/99 III-101 Make Payments to Lenders
   (FI-10) - The language says "make payments to lenders". We believe it
   should read "make payments to guarantors". 7/22/99 III-99 Financial
   Institution Services - Financial Transactions - According to the
   Blueprint, "Financial transactions manages the flow of funds between
   financial institutions and OSFA." ED should ensure that the scope of
   this requirement stays within the processes noted on page III-99.
   7/22/99 III-98 (FI-08.03) - The Blueprint mentions limitation on
   participation or discontinuance of participation and for the first time
   includes guarantors and servicers along with lenders (see FI-02);
   however, secondary markets are not listed. In addition, similar
   requirements should be established for OSFA performance failures.
   7/22/99 IV-14 - Student Services is described as providing services
   including awareness of financial aid, easy access to user-friendly
   application forms and efficient repayment processes. Rather than
   replicating existing materials by building one mega-information store,
   ED should strongly consider providing electronic links to FFELP trading
   partners who have highly developed and user-friendly web sites devoted
   to guiding students through the financial aid process. Examples of
   highly rated counseling options include the FFELP initiative called
   "Mapping Your Future". This web site includes a vast amount of
   user-friendly financial aid and student loan information. With regards
   to repayment counseling, it is important that ED choose a strategy that
   provides students with links to individual lender web sites. Repayment
   options and cost saving programs vary widely among industry lenders.
   Failure to provide students with all of their options, or including
   only FDLP options, is not in the best interest of our ultimate
   customers, the students. Additionally, an approach to link to other
   trading partners capitalizes on already developed systems, thereby
   decreasing overall costs to 7/22/99 III-98 Take Action on Performance
   (FI-08) - No mention is made of the appeal process for lenders who have
   lost eligibility to participate. The Blueprint mentions that lenders
   can appeal audit and program review findings, but not discontinuance of
   eligibility. We assume this does not negate lenders' due process as
   provided for in statute and regulation. 7/22/99 III-97 (FI-06.01) - The
   guarantor portion should read "data match quality" rather than "data
   quality match". Also, the statement regarding performance indicators
   being limited to "size of fund balance, reserve ratio and data quality
   match" require further specificity (e.g., which fund, Operating Fund?
   Reserve Fund? etc.). In addition, the Department should consult with
   guarantors regarding other legitimate measures of quality, including
   qualitative assessments of customer satisfaction, that should be
   considered in such performance 7/22/99 IV-136 Paragraphs 3 and 4 - The
   Blueprint discusses employing expensive leading edge technology with
   targeted business areas because ED cannot charge aid applicants. There
   seems to be an implication that the targeted business areas will bear
   at least some of those costs. The reference to negotiating individual
   agreements with banks for access to NSLDS or other specific systems
   raises this same question. Further, it is not clear what the basis or
   authority is for ED to gather and coordinate any information related to
   private aid 7/22/99 V-13 Single Student Account - We are uncertain from
   the Blueprint as to how this information would be collected. We
   reiterate that the data should be distributed data and that schools
   should not be removed from Monday, September 27, 1999 Page 11 of 56
   CommunityID DateReceived Comment 7/22/99 IV-50 Financial Institution
   Services Program Eligibility module - This section contains a step
   labeled "Set Lender Participation Levels F!-02 (New)," a concept for
   which the meaning and implications are not defined. 7/22/99 III-96
   Monitor Financial Institution Performance (FI-06) - As stated several
   times, we do not believe that Access America is the appropriate vehicle
   to "monitor performance". 7/22/99 III-95 (FI-05.04-3700) - This section
   names secondary markets for the first time implying that secondary
   markets are financial institutions from which performance data will be
   obtained. 7/22/99 III-95 (FI-05.04) - The Blueprint requires greater
   elaboration for the same reason as cited directly above. That is, ED
   should provide examples of "other performance data as required for
   analysis and performance 7/22/99 III-95 (FI-05.03) - We believe that
   this data is already being addressed and captured in the new Forms 2000
   initiative. 7/22/99 III-95 Maintain Financial Institution Performance
   Data (FI-05) - The Blueprint should clarify the guarantor's important
   role in performing lender reviews and audits. In order for this
   information to be shared electronically, the criteria and format should
   be well defined for consistency. 7/22/99 IV-91 Aid Origination and
   Disbursement System - This section contains a subsystem for Managing
   Lenders Disbursement Information and other requirements that state or
   imply responsibility for functions now handled by FFELP participants
   directly [see IV-90 1380]. 7/22/99 IV-110 - This section indicates that
   a common data environment will provide all business channels the same
   core data, and eliminates redundant data to the maximum extent
   possible. While integration and coordination of the multiple SFA
   databases is needed, for the initiative to incorporate more FFELP data
   than the minimum essential, is creating redundant data, not eliminating
   it. 7/22/99 IV-114 - One of the tenets of the Blueprint is the concept
   of a Student Master Account, providing a single point of contact. The
   Student Account Manager should serve as the initial point of contact,
   but not the only one. ED should not be the repository of all FFELP
   data, but of limited FFELP data. The borrower should be able to use the
   SAM to link to other FFELP sites that provide definitive up-to-date
   FFELP information on their 7/22/99 III-129 Cost Management
   (FS-06-5070.01) - We are unclear as to the meaning of the statement
   "...calculates any costs incurred by schools, lenders, and guarantors
   for which OSFA will be reimbursed through a charge-back process". The
   Blueprint should 7/22/99 IV-115, 117, and 119 - We are concerned with
   the information contained in this section in that past experience has
   indicated that ED does not always fully consider the needs of those who
   are interested in the information in the document when the form
   contains graphics that are illegible in a printed copy of the 7/22/99
   III-97 Monitor Financial Institution Performance (FI-06.01) 3 This
   section lists performance indicators; however, default rates are not
   named even though default rates are provided under the business
   requirement definitions for (FI-06-3830 to 3882). This implies that
   default rates are considered a performance indicator. 7/22/99 Page
   III-76, Business Requirement ID's 1220, 1224, 1230, 1240, 1270, 1350,
   1446 and 1460: Describe a centralized process for managing lender
   disbursement information which would include receiving disbursement
   records, origination records, adjustments and cancellations, and
   providing disbursement rosters Monday, September 27, 1999 Page 12 of 56
   CommunityID DateReceived Comment 7/22/99 Page III-35, Manage
   Application AA-02, AA-02.01, 1711, 1712, 1713, 1714, 1715 and 1742:
   Describes centralized management of the loan application and promissory
   note functions. OSFA should clarify that it does not perform these
   servicing functions on FFELP loans. 7/22/99 Page III-36, Business
   Requirement ID's 1720, 1711, 1712, 1713, 1714, 1715 and 1742: Describes
   a centralized process for the management of Federal Family Education
   Loan Program (FFELP) loan applications and promissory notes. 7/22/99
   Page III-39, First Paragraph: Describes a centralized process for
   collecting money from borrowers and advising borrowers regarding
   various repayment options. 7/22/99 Page III-43, Select Repayment Option
   AR-02: OSFA should clarify that it does not perform these servicing
   functions on FFELP loans. 7/22/99 Page III-43, Track Borrower AR-09:
   Describes a centralized skip tracing process. 7/22/99 Page III-45,
   Select Repayment Option AR-02, 2000, 2002, 2010, 2060, 2070, 2110,
   2114, 2130, 2150 and 2180: OSFA should clarify that it does not perform
   these servicing functions on FFELP loans. 7/22/99 Page III-49, Track
   Borrower AR-09, 2340 and 2350: OSFA should clarify that it does not
   perform these servicing functions on FFELP loans. 7/22/99 Page III-53,
   Manage Consolidation Loan Information AR-07: Describes a centralized
   consolidation loan 7/22/99 Page III-74, First Paragraph: Describes a
   centralized process for origination and disbursement. Also, describes a
   centralized process for receiving, storing and distributing borrower
   authorizations. 7/22/99 Page III-74, First Paragraph: Describes a
   centralized process for obtaining enrollment data from schools and
   forwarding such data onto lenders and guaranty agencies. 7/22/99 Page
   III-74, Second Paragraph: Describes a centralized process for editing
   and authorizing disbursements. 7/22/99 Page III-75, Edit Common
   Origination Record OD-01: Describes a common origination record for
   FFELP loans which would receive an acceptance decision from a lender
   and forward it to the school. 7/22/99 Page III-75, Edit Common
   Disbursement Record OD-02: Describes a centralized process for
   receiving, storing and distributing borrower authorizations. 7/22/99
   V-13 Item #1 - The example provided, suggesting consolidation for
   students with multiple lenders, may not be the best course of action
   for all borrowers. That is, consolidation may not be the best
   alternative. For example, the student may have multiple lenders only
   because a subsequent loan has not yet been sold. We recommend
   eliminating the example. 7/22/99 Page IV-89, Editing Common Origination
   Records, OD.106: Describes a centralized process for editing
   disbursement, origination, adjustment and cancellation records. 7/22/99
   Page III-90, Ninth Paragraph (FI-02): Describes additional lender
   participation requirements -- "sets lender participation levels in the
   FFELP program based on lender performance as determined through
   internal and external program reviews, audits and other forms of
   performance monitoring conducted by ED." Monday, September 27, 1999
   Page 13 of 56 CommunityID DateReceived Comment 7/22/99 Page IV-5:
   Describes a centralized process for maintenance of participant
   signature authorizations, multi-year promissory notes, and waivers to
   release information. 7/22/99 Page IV-13: Describes a centralized
   process for "student-level origination and disbursement records" and
   tracking of enrollment status. 7/22/99 Page IV-16: Describes a
   centralized loan repayment and collection process from origination
   through default. OSFA should clarify that it does not perform these
   servicing functions on FFELP loans. 7/22/99 Page IV-77, ABB# 13:
   Identifies centralized "FFEL Disbursement Information Management."
   7/22/99 Page III-75, Manage Lender Disbursement Information OD-16:
   Describes centralized management of lender disbursement information.
   7/22/99 Page IV-80, Managing Aid Applications, AA.114, AA.115 and
   AA.116: Describes centralized management of the loan application and
   promissory note functions. OSFA should clarify that it does not perform
   these servicing functions on FFELP loans. 7/22/99 Page III-79, Manage
   Lender Disbursement Information OD-16, 1224, 1370, 1440, 1460 and 1600:
   Describes centralized management of lender disbursement information.
   7/22/99 Page IV-90, Authorizing Payments to Schools, OD.140: Describes
   a "common integrated origination, payment, and reconciliation process
   for all Title IV student financial assistance programs..." OSFA should
   clarify that it does not perform these servicing functions on FFELP
   loans. 7/22/99 Page V-9, Aid Origination and Disbursement: Describes a
   major rebuild to current origination and disbursement system. OSFA
   should clarify that this is in reference to the FDLP systems only.
   7/22/99 Page V-9, Loan Repayment: Describes centralized electronic bill
   presentation and payment, and a major rebuild to current loan repayment
   system applications. OSFA should clarify that this is in reference to
   the 7/22/99 Page V-32, First Paragraph: Describes an Access America
   pilot that will centralize a loan origination subsystem providing
   origination data that will enable the Student Account Manager to
   perform disbursements. 7/22/99 Page III-87, First Paragraph: Describes
   additional lender participation requirements -- "sets lender
   participation levels for loan programs based on financial metrics such
   as reserve ratios, capitalization and other loan program commitments."
   Also permits OSFA to revise lender participation levels. 7/22/99 Page
   III-32, Second Paragraph: States that "OSFA will serve as a central
   administrator"for the student's aid application needs, "performing a
   range of duties, from holding student authorizations for access to
   classified information to generating promissory notes from a lender of
   the student's choice." 7/22/99 Page IV-77, ABB# 17, 18, 19 and 20:
   Describes centralized loan repayment functions. OSFA should clarify
   that it does not perform these servicing functions on FFELP loans.
   7/22/99 Page V-13 Personalized Student WEB page - We are uncertain how
   this relates to the Single Student Account, if at all. 7/22/99 Page
   III-34, Third Paragraph (Obtain Eligibility Assessment Information
   AA-03): Describes a centralized process which includes performing
   credit checks on PLUS loans. Monday, September 27, 1999 Page 14 of 56
   CommunityID DateReceived Comment 7/22/99 V-30 Current Aid Originations
   and Disbursement diagram - ED should add a double arrow from the school
   to the guaranty agency because many schools have a single point of
   contact with their guarantor for all of their loan and state grant
   processing. In addition, the diagram should include a double arrow from
   the school to the lender. Guarantors report changes to loans received
   from schools to the lenders and lenders respond back to the guarantors.
   Finally an arrow should added from the guarantors to the schools. Some
   guaranty agencies provide disbursement and/or escrow services for their
   schools. 7/22/99 V-30 System Architecture Current Aid Origination and
   Disbursement - While many current processing scenarios include a link
   between the school and the guarantor, this chart does not reflect those
   linkages. We recommend that ED add a guarantor-to-school link. 7/22/99
   V-30 System Architecture Current Aid Origination and Disbursement - The
   student should be a key part of the process. Although the application
   process included the student, this process omits the student. ED should
   add the student and the applicable guarantor and lender linkages.
   7/22/99 V- 18 Single Student Account - Again, ED should ensure that the
   data is distributed. Questions should be addressed to whoever provided
   the data. 7/22/99 V- 32 Access America - Based on the Blueprint, it
   appears that the just-in-time disbursement information is specific to
   Pell and Direct Loans, not FFELP. 7/22/99 V-14 Item #17 - If the plan
   is to create a "single face" for customers, all consolidating lenders
   (whether FFEL or Direct Loan servicers) should have the ability to
   request payoff balances electronically. As described, the process
   simplifies the administration of the FDLP but not the FFELP. The
   Blueprint should include FFELP consolidations in this discussion.
   7/22/99 V-34 and V-35 Common Origination and Disbursement Database -
   The Blueprint indicates that all origination and disbursement activity
   will be performed by ED (SAM). While that scenario holds true for FDLP,
   the Blueprint should indicate that lenders and guarantors perform this
   function for FFELP. 7/22/99 III-53 Manage Consolidation Loan
   Information (AR-07) - This appears to include both FDLP and FFELP
   loans. However, we are not clear as to how OSFA would obtain the
   specific lender information. We would suggest that OSFA simply provide
   only general information in conjunction with links to specific
   participating lenders. 7/22/99 III-94 (FI-04.03) - This section refers
   to guarantors as ED's external partners that provide service delivery
   to financial institutions. In other sections, guarantors are grouped
   with financial institutions. The Blueprint should be consistent in its
   categorization of guarantors. 7/22/99 V-13 Item 15 - The OSFA should
   concentrate on the establishment of the standards that are needed to
   support electronic billing Once the standards are in place, all
   organizations could provide these services to the Title IV borrowers.
   7/22/99 V-13 Direct Loan Consolidation Certificate/ACH Payment - ED
   should ensure that this system works both ways. That is, if a FFELP
   participant is a reporting party, they should also be a receiving
   party. 7/22/99 V-13 FAFSA Corrections on the WEB - We fully support
   this concept. 7/22/99 V-13 Digital ID - We recommend that the
   Department clarify that all of ED's partners, including schools and
   guarantors, will have access and be able to use digital IDs. Monday,
   September 27, 1999 Page 15 of 56 CommunityID DateReceived Comment
   7/22/99 V-16 System Architecture Current Aid Application Process - The
   chart depicts no connection between schools and lenders, schools and
   guarantors, students and guarantors, or guarantors and lenders (other
   than for defaulted loans). If the purpose of the chart is to merely
   represent the FAFSA and need analysis process, then lenders and
   guarantors may not need to be identified in the chart. However, because
   the chart indicates a link between students and lenders (labeled "Loan
   applications and corrections"), we believe it 7/22/99 Page 5, Right
   Column, Last Paragraph: Describes a system for tracking and servicing
   borrowers throughout the life of a loan. 7/22/99 V-13 All Enrolled Data
   - ED should continue its discussions with the NSLDS and Clearinghouse
   to provide a single source of data reporting. 7/22/99 Page III-18,
   First Paragraph: Describes a centralized process for origination and
   disbursement, receiving and storing borrower authorizations, and
   tracking of enrollment status. 7/22/99 Page III-15, Last Paragraph:
   Describes a centralized process which "offers counseling to and
   collects money from borrowers who have entered repayment, provides
   invoices, processes loan consolidation requests, and attempts
   collection on defaulted loans." 7/22/99 Page III-12, First Bullet:
   Describes a consolidation of the relationships with lenders, schools
   and OSFA under one student master account, "providing a single point of
   contact for students to interact with education service providers."
   Also refers to OSFA handling "all interactions with students." 7/22/99
   Page III-8, First Bullet: Implies a single "origination and
   disbursement process." 7/22/99 V-29 Future Aid Origination and
   Disbursement diagram - We are concerned that there is no specific
   mention of guarantors or lenders. The diagram implies that the OSFA
   will be performing all of the editing for all originations and
   disbursement records. We believe that for FFELP, this responsibility
   should continue to reside with the lenders and guarantors. OFSA will
   not have the data necessary to edit these records for 7/22/99 Page 14,
   Right Column, Last Paragraph: Although OSFA has tried to alleviate
   concerns regarding a "very big database (VBD)," this paragraph still
   refers to OSFA having "multiple databases that can share information."
   There is no mention of sharing information with OSFA's partners --
   still implies centralization with OSFA, although with multiple
   databases. 7/22/99 Page III-34, Second Paragraph (Manage Application
   AA-02): Describes a centralized application process that would include
   management of applications received, and maintenance of information
   such as borrower authorizations to endorse financial aid applications
   and multi-year promissory notes. 7/22/99 Page 5, Left Column, Last
   Paragraph: Describes a single, shared source of data about
   institution's loan 7/22/99 Page 5, Left Column, Second Paragraph:
   Describes a centralized processes for origination and disbursement,
   loan portfolio status, deferment processing and financial transaction
   processing. 7/22/99 3. Page 4, Left Column, Last Paragraph: Describes a
   centralized process for storing and administering student account
   information such as enrollment, disbursement and repayment
   transactions. 7/22/99 Page 3, Right Column, Last Full Paragraph:
   Describes a centralized process for obtaining signatures on loan
   promissory notes. Monday, September 27, 1999 Page 16 of 56 CommunityID
   DateReceived Comment 7/22/99 Page 2, Middle Column, Last Full
   Paragraph: Describes an Electronic Student Account that could provide
   centralized processing for student aid disbursement, loan origination
   and repayment. 7/22/99 V-39 Request for forbearance and deferment - We
   recommend that ED permit a similar process for processing forbearances
   and deferments under the FFELP. 7/22/99 Page III-7, First Bullet:
   Describes a centralized student account that will track enrollment,
   disbursement and repayment transaction information. This would
   consolidate information across lenders into a centralized 7/22/99
   III-21 - The Customer Satisfaction Management section speaks to
   determining customer/partner needs, developing objectives and plans,
   and taking responsive action. However, the section does not include any
   discussion regarding validating that the objectives and plans meet the
   customers'/partners' needs. The Department should clearly indicate that
   its plan will include a process for validating that the plan will truly
   address customer concerns and contain a formal feedback process.
   7/22/99 III-94 Develop & Deliver Information, Training & Technical
   Assistance (FI-04) - We appreciate these activities being listed and
   hope they will be performed more timely than in the past (especially
   FI-04.03). 7/22/99 III-8 - The 2nd paragraph after the 1st set of
   bullets speaks to financial institutions; the second and third
   sentences then talk about linking students to their lenders. One of the
   most important guarantor functions is debt management, including
   counseling beginning at the high school level and continuing through
   delinquency and default. As such, we do not believe guarantors should
   be omitted from this section of the Blueprint. 7/22/99 III-11 - "School
   Services" is defined as "services OSFA provides directly to students."
   It is difficult to fully determine what this means for FFELP. We
   believe, however, that it is inappropriate for Access America (OSFA) to
   perform some of those activities; rather, the "services" should be
   performed by the lenders. 7/22/99 III-12 - The 3rd sentence under
   Student Services again fails to mention guarantors and state education
   7/22/99 III-12 - The terms "consolidate" and "one student master
   account" do not seem to be consistent with the concept of a "virtual
   system" linking multiple systems. 7/22/99 III-12 - This section defines
   the 4 new OSFA Functional Areas. Although the plan to allow for single
   points of contact for technical assistance, segmented by customer type,
   should result in a higher level of expertise from ED, unless
   constructed properly, policy guidance could be problematic. To diminish
   or eliminate any instances of disparate information (i.e.,
   contradictory responses from different ED offices and personnel),
   special attention should be given to ensuring that policy and
   regulatory guidance is uniformly distributed and consistent across all
   customer types. 7/22/99 III-13 - "Financial Institution Services" is
   defined as "supporting lender and guarantors in their delivery of aid
   to students." The Blueprint goes on to list "financial transactions and
   program performance analysis and reviews" as types of services. Again,
   we believe these processes are outside the scope of what Access America
   should support and/or provide to its partners. Additionally, we
   strongly recommend that ED implement similar tools for this group of
   partners as is provided for schools in order to perform self-audits.
   7/22/99 III-13- Performance Management -This process should be ongoing
   with internal staffing as well as periodic third-party evaluations.
   Monday, September 27, 1999 Page 17 of 56 CommunityID DateReceived
   Comment 7/22/99 III-13 - There is no mention of the role guarantors
   play in providing training and performing program reviews. Development
   of performance and analysis methods should be developed in concert with
   ED's business partners who actually provide these services. 7/22/99
   III-15 Aid Application - An assumption would be that all aid, public
   and private, would be maintained requiring schools to be providing
   total access to award information or consistent updating of databases
   to reflect all 7/22/99 III-15 Loan Repayment - It appears this
   provision includes FFELP, although we are not sure how this would be
   possible and/or desirable for FFELP. Further, there are no indications
   that other FFELP participants perform this function, such as lenders
   and guarantors. Also, it is unclear as to who will determine the
   criteria for the repayment options that best meet the borrowers
   circumstances, particularly when ED is not the holder of the promissory
   notes for those loans. We assume this discussion with regard to ED's
   role is applicable only to the FDLP, and as such, this section should
   be clarified in that regard. Statements like "Loan Repayment will
   choose how to deal with defaults" implies that ED is the only entity
   that performs this service or that will make the determinations as to
   the most successful practice. ED should recognize that guarantors have
   been performing these functions for 3 decades. In addition, it would
   appear that "wage garnishment and collection agencies" are the only
   methods that are being considered by ED without any examination of
   "best practices." We are concerned that this paragraph at least implies
   that ED is seeking to assume responsibility for services currently
   provided by the private sector rather than ED focusing on improving the
   services ED currently provides. 7/22/99 III-17 - The Program
   Eligibility section states that a school's eligibility may be
   deactivated by OSFA, but fails to mention that a significant number of
   Limitation, Suspension and Termination actions are initiated and
   enforced by the guarantors. Also, schools must meet state education
   departments requirements for accreditation and quality of education,
   and can be subject to action from the state. ED should work with both
   these entities in 7/22/99 III-8 - In response to the first bullet,
   FFELP participants already have "simple origination and disbursement
   processes" (one stop shopping). As such, we would suggest revising this
   bullet to state: "Create a standardized origination & disbursement
   process" 7/22/99 III-19 - In the Program Eligibility discussion, ED
   should indicate that it will include lenders and guarantors as partners
   in determining program eligibility criteria. Guarantors currently
   perform a significant number of lender reviews and are subject matter
   experts in this area. As such, they should be actively involved in
   determining lender program eligibility criteria and key risk
   indicators. 7/22/99 III-7 - The 3rd bullet raises an interesting issue
   for which we would like to review the supporting statistical data. Our
   impression has been that technical defaults have not been an issue
   since all schools have been required to report either to the NSLDS or
   the National Student Loan Clearinghouse. While the assertion that
   defaults will be substantially reduced will be easily quantifiable, it
   is unlikely to occur. 7/22/99 III-27 - In the 6th line down, a
   statement is made that: "Execution involves input from schools and
   lenders" Noticeably absent is any discussion of guarantors and state
   education departments which have already been performing this function.
   Also, we noticed that students are not included in the planning stage
   even though they are the individuals that ED is trying to reach.
   7/22/99 III-27 - In the last line, guarantors and state education
   departments are omitted. Monday, September 27, 1999 Page 18 of 56
   CommunityID DateReceived Comment 7/22/99 III-27 Student Services Aid
   Awareness Flow - Guarantors are not represented on this diagram. While
   subsequent pages to this diagram include guarantors, they need to be
   added to the overall flow the diagram represents. Guarantors should
   also be mentioned in the Flow Diagram Description as a partner along
   with the schools and lenders who will be distributing OSFA's message.
   7/22/99 III-29 Develop Awareness Programs (AW-02) - The section on
   "coordination with other initiatives" should include references to
   coordinating with the state agencies' existing programs. 7/22/99 III-29
   - We recommend the following revised text for this section: Flow
   Diagram Description The goal of the Aid Application Process is to
   efficiently collect information from potential students in an effort to
   rapidly determine their financial needs and notify them of their aid
   package choices." 7/22/99 III-31 Provide Access to Financial Simulation
   Modeling (AW-04-1060) - Packaging strategies can be very complicated
   depending on particular private scholarship and grant program
   requirements. This option would be very limited and likely would
   provide only broad estimates of the major federal and state programs.
   Further, schools may not want to share their packaging strategies.
   7/22/99 III-33 - State agencies should be part of the Student Services
   - Aid Application flow diagram (linked to "Assess Participant
   Eligibility") to provide a means for determining state-based programs.
   Also, there should be an arrow linking "Design and Distribution of
   Applications/ Forms" back to the student to indicate the student
   receives the application. There should also be a link between the
   student and school to indicate that the student receives an application
   from the school and the student submits the application back to the
   school. 7/22/99 III-35 Design and Distribution of Application Forms
   (AA-01.06) - Consistent timing of the approval process would be
   critical for appropriate implementation. 7/22/99 III-35 Manage
   Application (AA-02) - The business requirement definition mentions
   borrower signatures on promissory notes, but lenders are not
   represented on the corresponding flow diagram on page III-33. 7/22/99
   III-35 AA-01.01 - Representatives from NCHELP and the Adhoc
   Standardization Committee, which is responsible for the development and
   maintenance of "common" FFELP forms, should be included on the core
   7/22/99 III-59-61 School Services - Program Eligibility Business
   Requirements - We are uncertain as to whether this business requirement
   is a replacement or an enhancement to PEPS or whether Access America is
   set up to monitor these types of activities. 7/22/99 III-35 1090-
   Guarantors and state education departments should be included. 7/22/99
   III-18 - In the Aid Origination and Disbursement section, the Blueprint
   implies that ED will be assuming functions currently performed by
   guarantors, escrow agents, and lenders. This section should be
   rewritten to clearly delineate that the services being described are
   for the FDLP. Further, this section is not consistent with the "virtual
   system"approach. The existing paragraph should begin: "For FDLP
   loans..", and a new paragraph should be added to indicate that non-FDLP
   data will be provided through linkages to ED's partners' systems.
   Monday, September 27, 1999 Page 19 of 56 CommunityID DateReceived
   Comment 7/22/99 While the enormity and complexity of what is described
   in Chapter IV make it difficult to assess the impact of the flows and
   IT architecture as they relate specifically to FFELP, the initiative
   appears
