http://www.presidiotrust.gov/letterman/

   The Presidio Trust Logo (Link to Home)
   Link to the Park
   Link to the Trust
   Link to the News
   Link to Sustainability
   Link to Leasing
   Link to Presidio Community
   Link to Library
   Link to Postings
   Link to Contact Us
   Link to Employment
   Link to Events
   Link to Getting to the Park
   Link to Web Site Map
   Link to Links
   Link to Search
   Link to e-Mail List

   Letterman Digital Arts

   Letterman Transformation

   Letterman Home |Neighborhood Update | Deconstruction Process
                              | History | Feedback | Contact Us


   [LettermanHome.gif]

   The Letterman Transformation has begun! Over the next 6 months, the
   Presidio Trust will be deconstructing the former Letterman Army Medical
   Center (LAMC) and adjoining Letterman Army Institute of Research (LAIR)
   to make way for the Letterman Digital Arts Center, the future home of
   Lucasfilm's digital arts campus. This project revitalizes an important,
   visible part of the park, and will increase open space, improve public
   access, and enhance our Presidio community.

                             Photo of Letterman Army Medical Center (LAMC)
                                      Letterman Army Medical Center (LAMC)

     To keep you informed about project milestones and activities, we'll be
     posting a biweekly look at upcoming work, as well as a broader project
     overview. Visit the Neighborhood Update section to find out what to
     expect in the next 2 weeks, or check the Deconstruction Process section
     of the site for a long-term look ahead.

   Photo of Letterman Army Institute of Research (LAIR)
   Letterman Army Institute of Research (LAIR)
   While we're excited about the site's future, we also respect and value
   the history of LAMC and LAIR, which were once state-of-the-art
   buildings dedicated to medicine and research. To explore the evolution
   of this 23-acre site-and how the LAMC/LAIR fits into the history of the
   broader Letterman complex-please visit our History section. (Make sure
   to check History again in a few weeks, as we continue to gather stories
   and expand the site.) Do you have your own Letterman memories you'd
   like to share? We welcome your stories as part of the living history of
   these buildings.

     If you have any suggestions or comments about the Letterman
     Transformation or about the website, please send them through our
     Feedback section. If you have a question or want to talk to someone
     about the project, you'll find contact information at Contact Us.

     Share Your Memories

     If you have stories or memories about the Letterman Hospital, LAMC, or
     LAIR, we'd love to hear them. To share your stories, please call Dianna
     Waggoner, the Trust's Historical Reporter, at (415) 561-7636 or email
     her at dwaggoner@presidiotrust.gov. With your permission, we may
     incorporate your recollections into the expanded Letterman History
     section.
