http://nls3.nlm.nih.gov/MetaMap/ambiguity.94.pdf

   Ambiguity Resolution while Mapping Free Text to the UMLS Metathesaurus
   Thomas C. Rindflesch and Alan R. Aronson National Library of Medicine
   Bethesda, MD 20894 We propose a method for resolving ambiguities
   examples are [5] (mapping to MeSH), [6] (mapping to encountered when
   mapping free text to the UMLS速 MeSH), [7], [8], [9], [10], [11], and
   [12]. Metathesaurus.速 Much of the research in medical informatics
   involves the manipulation of free text. The Regardless of the method
   used for mapping to the Metathesaurus contains extensive information
   which Metathesaurus, ambiguous mappings result. Such supports solutions
   to problems encountered while mappings, which occur when a text phrase
   maps cor- processing such text. After discussing the process of rectly
   to more than one Metathesaurus concept, have mapping free text to the
   Metathesaurus and describ- to be resolved before further processing can
   be reli- ing the ambiguities which are often the result of such ably
   pursued. In this paper, after discussing the pro- mapping, we provide
   examples of rules designed to cess of mapping free text to
   Metathesaurus concepts eliminate mapping ambiguities. These rules refer
   to and elucidating the resulting ambiguity, we describe a the context
   in which the ambiguity occurs and cru- pilot study which investigates
   an approach to resolv- cially depend on semantic types obtained from
   the ing such ambiguity. Metathesaurus. We have conducted a preliminary
   test of the methodology and the results obtained indicate MAPPING
   PHRASES IN FREE TEXT TO THE that the rules successfully resolve
   ambiguity around UMLS METATHESAURUS 80% of the time. An example of a
   general and robust algorithm for mapping to a controlled vocabulary is
   described in INTRODUCTION [6]. This algorithm has a number of
   characteristics As automated methods in medical informatics mature,
   which ensure that the concepts identified accurately researchers are
   increasingly addressing the problems represent the source text. The
   algorithm first identifies inherent in manipulating free text. Due to
   the com- noun phrases in the input text and then maps to con- plexity
   of natural language, such processing poses a cepts within each noun
   phrase. It further produces particular challenge to system developers.
   The Uni- morphological variants, and deals with various kinds fied
   Medical Language System速 (UMLS) ([1]) pro- of partial matches,
   including permutation of words, vides extensive support for processing
   natural synonymy, intervening unimportant words, partial language.
   matches, and complex matches. Several studies ([2], [3], and [4], for
   example) discuss We have developed a program for mapping free text to
   projects which exploit the UMLS Metathesaurus in the Metathesaurus
   which has most of the desirable natural language processing. In
   addition to its value characteristics found in [6], but which differs
   consid- for such research, [1] summarizes research using erably in
   implementation and in our treatment of par- UMLS for a variety of
   purposes involving the manip- tial and complex matches. Our program,
   which is ulation of text, including information retrieval, index-
   described in more detail in [4], first identifies simple ing, and data
   creation applications. noun phrases in free text. This syntactic
   analysis relies on the SPECIALIST lexicon ([13]) and the Xerox In order
   to effectively use the information contained Part-of-Speech Tagger
   ([14]). The following exam- in the 4th (1993) Experimental Edition of
   the Meta- ples demonstrate the crucial characteristics of our thesaurus
   it is first necessary to map the text being mapping program as it
   identifies Metathesaurus con- processed to Metathesaurus concepts. Many
   research- cepts for each noun phrase. ers have proposed various methods
   for such mapping. (The early projects map to the MeSH速 vocabulary, We
   employ intensive variant generation, which, in but the principles
   involved are identical to those addition to accommodating purely
   string-based vari- involved in mapping to the Metathesaurus.) Some
   ants, such as upper and lower case distinctions and inflectional
   variants, establishes a relationship between variants based on
   derivational morphology, given in brackets to indicate the two meanings
   of dial- synonymy, and abbreviation. For example, although ysis. the
   term renal transplant does not occur in the Meta- thesaurus, our
   variant generation determines that (5) a. lymph dialysis renal is a
   synonym of kidney and thus the text renal b. "Lymph" transplant maps to
   the Metathesaurus term "KIDNEY TRANSPLANT", one of the terms for the
   concept c. "Dialysis <1>" [`Natural Phenomenon or "Kidney
   Transplantation". Similarly, thermogram is Process'] not in the
   Metathesaurus; however, morphological d."Dialysis <2>" [`Therapeutic or
   Preventive variant generation allows this term to map to "Ther-
   Procedure'] mography". Finally, our treatment of abbreviations and
   acronyms allows us to map ICU to "Intensive Care Unit". AMBIGUOUS
   MAPPINGS We also allow complex matches, in which more than Regardless
   of the effectiveness of the algorithm one Metathesaurus concept
   represents the text of a employed for mapping free text to concepts in
   the noun phrase. For example, the noun phrase in (1a) Metathesaurus,
   ambiguities will result. Ambiguous maps to the Metathesaurus concepts
   (1b) and (1c). mappings to the Metathesaurus fall into two general
   categories: those caused by variant generation (this (1) a. digoxin
   overdose may be due to morphological variants, synonyms, or
   abbreviations), and those caused by ambiguity inher- b. "Digoxin" ent
   in a Metathesaurus concept itself, as illustrated in c. "Overdose" (5)
   above. It should be noted that the mapping algorithm does With regard
   to variant generation, morphology not itself specify the relationship
   between the Meta- together with synonymy conspire to produce multiple
   thesaurus concepts in a complex match; further pro- mappings which must
   be resolved in a particular con- cessing is required to determine the
   relationship text. For example, these phenomena cause the word between
   concepts in complex matches. fundamental to map infelicitously to the
   Meta- thesaurus concepts "Foundation" (with semantic type For those
   cases in which only part of the noun phrase `Organization') and "base"
   (with semantic type "Inor- has a mapping to the Metathesaurus, we
   distinguish ganic Chemical"). Abbreviations cause particular between
   instances in which the head is involved in problems due to the fact
   that they often have several mapping (2), and those in which it is not
   (3). (The expansions, none of which are semantically related to head of
   a noun phrase is the rightmost noun in the each other. For example, the
   single letter c matches structure.) Metathesaurus concepts including:
   "Carbon", "Com- plement", Cytidine", and "Cytosine". (2) a. liquid
   crystal thermography Ambiguous words and phrases are distinguished in
   b. "Thermography" the Metathesaurus either by integers in angled brack-
   (3) a. cochlear implant subjects ets or by a note in parentheses. The
   ambiguous word dialysis, for example, is represented by the preferred
   b. "Cochlear Implant" term "Dialysis <1>", which has semantic type
   `Natu- A further sub-type of partial match involves a map- ral
   Phenomenon or Process' and by the preferred term ping to Metathesaurus
   concepts which do not contigu- "Dialysis <2>", which has semantic type
   `Therapeutic ously cover the text of the noun phrase, as in (4). or
   Preventive Procedure'. Inhibition is represented as "Inhibition
   (Psychology)" with semantic type `Mental (4) a. adjuvant-induced
   arthritis Process' and as "Inhibition <2>" with semantic type
   `Molecular Function'. b. "Arthritis, Adjuvant" Ambiguities, of whatever
   type, have to be resolved if (5) illustrates the problem of ambiguous
   terms in the the Metathesaurus concepts obtained by the mapping
   Metathesaurus. The noun phrase in (5a) has a com- algorithm are to
   accurately support further processing plete mapping to the
   Metathesaurus as indicated in of the input text. We have decided to
   first address the (5b-d). However, dialysis maps to the two concepts
   type of ambiguity which is due to ambiguous con- shown, where the
   corresponding semantic types are cepts in the Metathesaurus itself. The
   technique being developed can then serve as the basis for resolving
   cept associated with that type is selected and the other ambiguity due
   to variant generation. (Also see [2] for candidates are rejected. An
   important characteristic of an example of ambiguity resolution in the
   context of a the entire approach is that it is probabilistic; the suc-
   natural language processing system.) cessful application of a rule in
   favor of a particular semantic type indicates that there is a certain
   likeli- AMBIGUITY RESOLUTION hood that the ambiguity should be resolved
   in favor of that semantic type, but the determination is not cate- The
   type of ambiguity exemplified by ambiguous gorical. Metathesaurus
   concepts is often referred to as word sense ambiguity. The general
   principle which sup- As an example of the application of the
   disambigua- ports the resolution of this ambiguity is the notion that
   tion rules first note that immunology ambiguously a particular sense of
   a term occurs in a definable tex- maps to the Metathesaurus concepts
   shown in (6). tual context. Beginning with [15] a number of (6) a.
   "immunology <1>" [`Biologic Function'] researchers in computational
   linguistics have pro- posed various systems for exploiting contextual
   infor- b. "Immunology <2>" [`Biomedical Occupation mation for the
   purposes of word sense disambiguation or Discipline'] (for example
   [16], [17], and [18]). We would like to take advantage of the insights
   these systems offer with c. "Immunology <3>" [`Laboratory Procedure']
   regard to the general approach to word sense disam- One of the rules
   for the semantic type `Laboratory biguation, especially with regard to
   what kinds of Procedure' is: information can contribute to the
   disambiguation and the general ways in which this information can be
   (7) Evidence in favor of `Laboratory Procedure': exploited. One of the
   following list of words occurs to A further consideration is how much
   context has to be the right of the ambiguous concept: classify,
   specified for effective ambiguity resolution. That is, indicate,
   procedure, reveal, show, analysis, experiment, finding, method,
   technique. the context might be the sentence in which the word occurs,
   or it might be the paragraph, or it might be In the text given in (8),
   rule (7) applies to select some larger text unit, for example the
   entire document semantic type `Laboratory Procedure' and its associ- in
   which the ambiguous term occurs. ated concept "Immunology <3>" since
   the word anal- As a pilot study, we have implemented a word sense ysis
   follows the word in the text which is involved in disambiguation
   algorithm in a Prolog program and the mapping ambiguity. (In this and
   the following have tested it on the NLM Test Collection ([19]). Our
   examples, the textual material which is involved in a system has been
   influenced in particular by [18]; how- mapping ambiguity is underlined,
   and the textual con- ever, in this prototype system, we limit the
   context text which contributes to the resolution of the ambigu- used
   for disambiguation to that occurring in the sen- ity is given in bold
   type.) tence in which the ambiguous term occurs. Within this context,
   the rules which resolve ambiguity may (8) Immunological analysis of the
   released fibronec- refer either to the presence of patterns of
   particular tin indicated that LTA was the only surface com- words or to
   patterns of UMLS semantic types associ- ponent which could be detected
   as a soluble ated with the Metathesaurus concepts which consti- complex
   with the released fibronectin. tute the mapping of the sentence in
   which the The following rule describes some of the evidence ambiguous
   term occurs. Either of these pattern types which supports selection of
   the type `Biologic Func- may be defined as occurring in a particular
   syntactic tion'. (Reference to a semantic type in a rule is to be
   structure. In the discussion that follows we provide interpreted as
   also referring to all the children of that examples of the process of
   ambiguity resolution using semantic type in the UMLS Semantic Network.)
   partial, informal statements of the rules involved. (9) Evidence in
   favor of `Biologic Function': The disambiguation process is driven by
   rules which A prepositional phrase occurs to the right of are
   associated with semantic types. Each semantic the ambiguous concept,
   the preposition is in type has associated with it a disambiguation rule
   or of, and the head of the object of the prepo- which specifies the
   evidence that supports selection of sition maps to a concept which has
   the this semantic type. Upon selection of a semantic type, semantic
   types `Plant' or `Animal'. The ambiguity is resolved in that the
   Metathesaurus con- prepositional phrase occurs "close" to the ambiguous
   concept but need not be immedi- than tricyclic antidepressants in
   relieving sleep ately contiguous. disorders in depressed patients. OR A
   phrase which maps to a concept having Additional rules might enhance
   the evidence in sup- the semantic type `Disease or Syndrome' port of
   either `Organic Chemical' or `Pharmacologic occurs to the right of the
   ambiguous concept. Substance' but could not contradict the elimination
   of `Laboratory Procedure'. Alternatively, after the elimi- nation of
   `Laboratory Procedure', it could be the case In the following examples,
   rule (9) chooses the cor- that there is also no evidence to support
   either rect mapping for immunology. In both (10) and (11) `Organic
   Chemical' or `Pharmacologic Substance'. In this is the concept
   "immunology <1>", which has the such a case the ambiguity must be left
   unresolved. semantic type `Biologic Function'. In (10) the ambig- uous
   term is followed by one which has the semantic type `Animal'. In (11)
   the contextual evidence sup- TESTING THE METHODOLOGY porting selection
   of `Biologic Function' is a term hav- In order to determine the
   viability of our general ing the semantic type `Disease or Syndrome'.
   approach to ambiguity resolution, we conducted a (10) The immunological
   responses of owl monkeys to pilot study limited to instances of
   immunology in the L. b. panamensis were similar in many respects to NLM
   Test Collection. We extracted 110 sentences those observed in humans
   with localized cutane- containing instances of morphological variants
   of ous leishmaniasis. immunology. As noted above immunology maps
   ambiguously to three Metathesaurus concepts, which (11) This nonhuman
   primate model should be useful have semantic types `Biologic Function'
   ("Immunol- for future studies involving the immunology and ogy <1>"),
   `Biomedical Occupation or Discipline' chemotherapy of cutaneous
   leishmaniasis. ("Immunology <2>"), and `Laboratory Procedure' There is
   a general principle that if the evidence which ("Immunology <3>"). This
   experiment thus tests the could support a particular semantic type does
   not in viability of the rules relevant to these three semantic fact
   occur in the text, then that semantic type is disfa- types. vored and
   the alternatives are favored. Imipramine (as Our disambiguation rules
   resolved 86 of the 110 shown in (12)) is one of the Metathesaurus terms
   instances correctly (78.2%). The program resolved which belong to the
   ambiguity class having one immunology to `Biologic Function'
   ("Immunology semantic type `Laboratory Procedure', and one or <1>") 95
   times, 75 of which were correct (78.9%). more additional semantic types
   which are children of Four instances were resolved to `Biomedical
   Occupa- `Substance' in the Semantic Network. tion or Discipline'
   ("Immunology <2>"), two of (12) a. "Imipramine <1>" [`Organic
   Chemical', which were correct; and eleven instances were `Pharmacologic
   Substance'] resolved to `Laboratory Procedure' ("Immunology <3>"), nine
   of which were correct (81.8%). b. "Imipramine <2>" [`Laboratory
   Procedure'] In examples (13) and (14), although the rule for `Lab-
   CONCLUSION oratory Procedure' has a chance to apply (since that In
   conclusion, we would like to suggest that the meth- semantic type
   occurs associated with one of the possi- odology for ambiguity
   resolution which we propose ble mappings), there is no evidence to
   support selec- can make a significant contribution to increased preci-
   tion of `Laboratory Procedure'. Thus, this semantic sion in an
   information retrieval system. Additional type is eliminated in favor of
   the alternative semantic research which we have recently conducted
   supports types (`Organic Chemical' and `Pharmacologic Sub- this
   conclusion. As noted earlier this methodology is stance') and
   "Imipramine <1>" is selected to resolve part of a general algorithm for
   mapping free text to the ambiguity. the UMLS Metathesaurus. In [20] we
   describe an (13) Moreover, imipramine, an inhibitor of protein
   experiment to test our general mapping algorithm kinase C, had little
   effect. with regard to retrieval effectiveness. (14) Fluoxetine has
   overall therapeutic efficacy com- In that study we report that our
   mapping algorithm parable with imipramine, amitriptyline and dox-
   chooses the correct Metathesaurus concept around epin in patients with
   unipolar depression treated 90% of the time, without word sense
   disambiguation. for 5 to 6 weeks, although it may be less effective
   Document retrieval conducted on the basis of that mapping resulted in
   about 60% average precision. Since incorrect mappings detract from
   precision and mated information retrieval." Frisse ME (ed.) Pro- since
   a significant number of the incorrect mappings ceedings of the 16th
   Annual SCAMC, 644-648, 1992. are due to ambiguity, resolving ambiguity
   will con- 10. Lin R, Lenert L, Middleton B and Shiffman S. "A tribute
   to increased precision. Given that the work free-text processing system
   to capture physical find- described in this paper suggests that our
   method for ings: Canonical phrase identification system resolving
   ambiguous mappings is effective around (CAPIS)." In Clayton PD (ed)
   Proceedings of the 15th 80% of the time, we feel that this method shows
   con- Annual SCAMC, 168-172, 1991. siderable promise for continued
   research aimed at increasing precision in information retrieval
   systems. 11. Wagner MM. "An automatic indexing method for medical
   documents." In Clayton PD (ed.) Proceedings of the 15th Annual SCAMC,
   1011-1017, 1992. References 12. Miller RA, Gieszczykiewicz FM, Vries JK
   and Cooper GF. "CHARTLINE: Providing bibliographic 1. Lindberg DAB,
   Humphreys BL and McCray AT. references relevant to patient charts using
   the UMLS "The Unified Medical Language System." Methods of
   Metathesaurus knowledge sources." In Frisse ME Information in Medicine
   32:281-291, 1993. (ed.) Proceedings of the 16th Annual SCAMC, 86-90, 2.
   Johnson SB, Aguirre A, Peng P and Cimino J. 1992. "Interpreting natural
   language queries using the 13. Browne AC, McCray AT and Srinivasan S.
   The UMLS." In Safran C (ed.) Proceedings of the 17th SPECIALIST
   Lexicon. National Library of Medicine, Annual SCAMC, 294-298, 1993.
   Report No. NLM-LHC-93-01 (available from NTIS, 3. McCray AT, Aronson
   AR, Browne AC, Rindflesch Springfield VA: PB93-217248), 1993. TC, Razi
   A and Srinivasan S. "UMLS knowledge for 14. Cutting D, Kupiec J,
   Pedersen J and Sibun P. "A biomedical language processing." Bulletin of
   the Med- practical part-of-speech tagger." In Proceedings of the ical
   Library Association 81:184-194. Third Conference on Applied Natural
   Language Pro- 4. Rindflesch TC and Aronson AR. "Semantic pro- cessing,
   1992. cessing in information retrieval." In Safran C (ed.) 15. Wilks
   YA. "An artificial intelligence approach to Proceedings of the 17th
   Annual SCAMC, 611-615, machine translation." In Schank RC and Colby KM
   1993. (eds) Computer Models of Thought and Language, 5. Moore GW,
   Hutchins GM, Boitnott JK, Miller RE 114-151. San Francisco: W. H.
   Freeman and Co., and Polacsek RA. "Word root translations of 45,564
   1973. autopsy reports in MeSH titles." In Stead WW (ed.) 16. Hirst GJ.
   Semantic interpretation against ambigu- Proceedings of the 11th Annual
   SCAMC, 128-132, ity. Brown University Doctoral dissertation, 1984.
   1987. 17. Stallard D. "The logical analysis of lexical ambi- 6. Elkin
   PL, Cimino JJ, Lowe HJ, Aronow DB, Payne guity." In Proceedings of the
   25th Annual Meeting of TH, Pincetl PS and Barnett GO. "Mapping to MeSH:
   the Association for Computational Linguistics, 179- The art of trapping
   MeSH equivalence from within 185, 1987. narrative text." In Greenes RA
   (ed) Proceedings of the 12th Annual SCAMC, 185-190, 1988. 18. McCroy
   SW. "Using multiple knowledge sources for word sense disambiguation."
   Computational Lin- 7. Canfield K, Bray B, Huff S and Warner H. "Data-
   guistics 18:1-30, 1992. base capture of natural language
   echocardiographic reports: a Unified Medical Language approach." In 19.
   Schuyler PL, McCray AT and Schoolman HM. "A Kingsland LC, III (ed.)
   Proceedings of the 13th test collection for experimentation in
   bibliographic Annual SCAMC, 559-563, 1989. retrieval." Barber B, Cao D,
   Qin D and Wagner G (eds.) MEDINFO 89, Amsterdam: North-Holland, 8.
   Chute CG, Yang Y, Tuttle MS, Sherertz DD, Olson 810-912, 1989. NE and
   Erlbaum MS. "A preliminary evaluation of the UMLS Metathesaurus for
   patient record classifi- 20. Aronson AR, Rindflesch TC, Browne AC.
   cation." In Miller RA (ed.) Proceedings of the 14th "Exploiting a large
   thesaurus for information Annual SCAMC,161-165, 1990. retrieval."
   Proceedings of RIAO-94, to appear. 9. Hersh WR, Hickam DD and Leone TJ.
   "Words, concepts, or both: Optimal indexing units for auto-
