http://www.dot.ca.gov/hq/oppd/ab1012/gdlns.pdf

   CALIFORNIA TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION (CTC) GUIDELINES AND PROCEDURES
   FOR THE STATE HIGHWAY ACCOUNT LOAN PROGRAM (APPROVED BY CTC ON JUNE 15,
   2000) 1 AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE 2 SCOPE OF STATE HIGHWAY ACCOUNT LOAN
   PROGRAM GUIDELINES AND PROCEDURES 3 GUIDELINES 3.1 Funding
   Availability, Minimums/MaximumsCriteria to Determine Application Status
   3.2 Independent Fiscal Consultant Analysis Required 3.3 Project
   Eligibility 3.4 Loan Application, Loan Approval and Disbursement of
   Loaned Funds 3.5 Loan Terms 3.6 Project Overruns 3.7 Delay of
   Construction and Notification Rescinding the Loan 3.8 Monitoring and
   Reporting 3.9 Reporting of Defaults 4 PROCEDURES 4.1 Department of
   Transportation Responsibilities 4.2 Eligible Applicants 4.3 Approval
   Subject to Funding Minimums/Maximums - Criteria 4.4 Project and
   Applicant Requirements 4.4.1 Ineligible Projects 4.4.2 Minimum Project
   Requirements 4.4.3 Project Readiness 4.4.4 Applicant Requirements and
   Responsibilities 4.5 Independent Fiscal Consultant Requirements and
   Responsibilities 4.5.1 Fiscal Assessment Required 4.5.2 Applicant to
   Exercise Due Diligence 4.6 Approving Authority Responsibilities 4.7
   Uniform Loan Application and Agreement Package 4.8 Additional
   Information on the Loan Program and Procedures CALIFORNIA
   TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION GUIDELINES AND PROCEDURES FOR THE STATE
   HIGHWAY ACCOUNT LOAN PROGRAM 1 AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE Government Code
   Section 14529.6, added by Chapter 783 of the Statutes of 1999 (AB
   1012), establishes a loan program to advance unallocated funds from the
   State Highway Account (SHA) to local entities for the advancement of
   projects eligible under the State Transportation Improvement Program
   (STIP) that are included within an adopted Regional Transportation Plan
   (RTP). The statutory intent is to expedite the use of the high cash
   balance in the SHA by putting the funds to work "at the earliest
   possible time on needed transportation improvements." The Commission is
   required by Section 14529.6(e) to propose guidelines and procedures to
   implement and expedite the loan program authorized under AB 1012,
   hereinafter referred to as the SHA Loan Program, and by Section
   14529.6(f) to adopt, after a public hearing, a "uniform loan agreement
   package" including guidelines and procedures. These guidelines and
   procedures become effective when adopted by the Commission. The
   Commission may revise these guidelines and procedures at any time after
   first giving notice of proposed amendments and conducting at least one
   public hearing. 2 SCOPE OF SHA LOAN PROGRAM GUIDELINES AND PROCEDURES
   The guidelines apply to all loans to local entities approved by the
   Commission under the provisions of Government Code Section 14529.6. For
   purposes of these guidelines, the term "local entity" includes
   transportation planning agencies, county transportation commissions,
   transit districts, city and county governments, and local
   transportation authorities. The guidelines are intended to provide
   policy guidance and direction for actions as well as activity processes
   and procedures related to loans for advancement of eligible projects.
   Specific activities governed by these guidelines include independent
   fiscal analysis, project eligibility, loan application review and
   approval, transmittal of funds, loan terms, "calling" of the loan for
   non-compliance or default, project overruns, and monitoring and
   reporting. The procedures are intended to detail responsibilities and
   requirements, and provide guidance on making an application. Caltrans
   may develop and maintain additional internal administrative procedures
   necessary to carry out the legislative intent of this loan program. 1 3
   GUIDELINES 3.1 Funding Availability, Minimums/Maximums  Criteria to
   Determine Application Status As authorized by Government Code Section
   14529.6, the Commission may advance monies from the SHA in the form of
   loans whenever the SHA cash balance exceeds $400 million. The total
   amount of outstanding loans shall not exceed $500 million at any one
   time. Twice a year, on January 15 and July 15, the Commission is
   required to adopt projections of funding availability and the period of
   time during which the funds will be available. In addition to the
   minimum SHA balance and loan program capacity, approval of a loan
   application is subject to the Commission's adopted projection in effect
   at the time the application is received by Caltrans. Loans will be
   approved on a first-come, first-served basis, except that an
   out-of-order application may be approved when program capacity would be
   exceeded if a preceding application were approved. The Commission
   intends that Caltrans use the following criteria to determine an
   application's "status" in determining its call on available funds. 1.
   The date and order in which it is received. 2. Whether the cumulative
   total of funds available to loan is greater than the amount requested.
   Caltrans may, however, negotiate with an applicant for a reduced loan
   amount when an application that exceeds available funds includes
   funding for more than one project. The applicant may elect to delete
   one or more projects from the original request, bringing the reduced
   loan amount in line with available funds. 3.2 Independent Fiscal
   Consultant Analysis Required Government Code Section 14529.6(b)(3)
   requires an applicant for a loan to have had a fiscal assessment of its
   ability to repay a loan completed by an independent fiscal consultant
   selected from a list of fiscal consultants that were "pre-qualified"
   and approved for inclusion on the list by Caltrans and the Commission.
   The fiscal analysis of the applicant's ability to repay a loan must be
   submitted with the application. Caltrans' recommendation to the
   Commission for approval of a loan will primarily be based on the fiscal
   consultant's analysis. Caltrans will advertise for fiscal consultants
   interested in being on the "pre-qualified" list. The advertisement
   notice will be through Caltrans' normal contract advertising process
   including notice on the Caltrans web page: http://www.dot.ca.gov or
   http://www.ns.net/caltrans/consult.htm. Interested fiscal consultants
   will be asked to respond to a "Request for Information" that includes
   criteria necessary to be pre-qualified. Once established, the
   "pre-qualified" list of fiscal consultants may be updated periodically
   by Caltrans. In addition to periodic advertising, Caltrans shall post
   the qualification criteria approved by the Commission as part of the
   Uniform Loan Application and Agreement package on the CTC web site at:
   http://www.dot.ca.gov/CTC/. Qualification information and resumes
   submitted by interested fiscal consultants shall be accepted on a
   continuous basis. 2 Loan applicants may select a consultant who is not
   on the "pre-qualified" list of consultants, however Caltrans must
   validate the consultant's credentials prior to loan approval.
   Commission approval of the consultant for inclusion on the
   "pre-qualified" list may occur concurrently with loan approval. If the
   loan applicant elects to proceed in this manner, the fiscal
   consultant's qualification information and resume must be submitted to
   Caltrans within the due dates set in the CTC Meeting Material Submittal
   due date schedule as discussed in Section 3.4 below. If Caltrans finds
   that the consultant does not meet the minimum qualification criteria,
   the fiscal analysis completed by the consultant for the applicant will
   be invalid for this loan program, and the loan will not be approved.
   3.3 Project Eligibility Only projects that are STIP eligible and
   included in an adopted RTP are eligible for funding under this program.
   Projects must also comply with the California Environmental Quality Act
   requirements and cost limitations as specified in Government Code
   Sections 14529.6(b)(1) and (b)(2), respectively. "STIP eligible" means
   those types of projects as defined in Streets and Highways Code Section
   164(e) and further clarified in the CTC's STIP guidelines, Section 25,
   and which are also included in the adopted RTP. Loans will be solely
   for the capital improvement phase of a project, which may include the
   costs of construction management and engineering. The Commission will
   not approve loans for environmental, preliminary and final engineering,
   right-of-way engineering, and associated project development
   activities. Local entities in need of funding for certain project
   development elements, specifically environmental, permits, and plans,
   specifications, and estimates, may be eligible for advance funding
   under the Advance Project Development Element (APDE) added to the STIP
   in response to provisions of Government Code Section 14529.01.
   Additional information about the APDE may be found in the "Guidelines
   for 2000 STIP Advance Project Development Element" (CTC Resolution
   G-99-28 Amending Resolutions G-99-23 and G-99-27). 3.4 Loan
   Application, Loan Approval and Disbursement of Loaned Funds Government
   Code Section 14529.6 provides a 60-day timeline for loans to be
   approved and monies to be transmitted. The Commission is required to
   approve or disapprove loan applications within 30 days after the
   application is submitted. During the 30 days prior to approval, loan
   agreements must be made available to interested parties. Not later than
   30 days after loan approval, the monies must be transmitted directly to
   the applicant. In addition to the 60-day timeline, an unspecified
   period is allowed by Government Code Section 14529.6(b)(3) for Caltrans
   to make a recommendation to the Commission based on the analysis
   conducted by the independent fiscal consultant. For purposes of these
   guidelines, the "date the application is submitted" shall be defined as
   "the date the Commission receives a loan request and recommendation
   from Caltrans" at a regularly scheduled public meeting. 3 When a local
   entity has a fiscal analysis completed by an independent fiscal
   consultant, the entity will submit an application to Caltrans in the
   form of the "Uniform Loan Application and Agreement" adopted by the
   Commission. Upon receipt, the application will be posted on the CTC web
   site for review by interested parties. Interested parties may submit
   comments concerning an application to Caltrans. Comments shall be in
   writing. Caltrans must receive the application and other material
   within the due dates set in the "CTC Meeting Material Submittal" due
   date schedule in order for Caltrans to make a recommendation to the CTC
   at the earliest meeting. The CTC meeting schedule can be found on the
   web site: http://www.dot.ca.gov/hq/transprog/ctcliaison.htm. The
   appropriate due date for loan application and material submittals is
   the same date as for "Program Amendments and Fund Requests Due
   Programming/Budgets." Any material not meeting the deadline will be
   held over for presentation at the next scheduled CTC meeting. However,
   a report of all material received by Caltrans shall be made available
   to Commission staff as it is received. Caltrans will review the
   application in the order it is received, prepare appropriate agreements
   if applicable, and make a loan request and recommendation to the
   Commission. Caltrans will submit a loan request and recommendation for
   all timely received applications, and any comments from interested
   parties, to the Commission at its next regularly scheduled meeting. The
   loan request and recommendation to be presented to the Commission shall
   include all of the following information: * Identity of the applicant.
   * The date and time the application was received by Caltrans. * The
   application "status" established by Caltrans using criteria in Section
   3.1. * The amount of the loan requested rounded to the nearest $1,000.
   * The terms of the loan. * A request for waiver for a county with less
   than 500,000 population. * The project(s) description. * Evidence that
   the project is in an adopted RTP. * The estimated date the project is
   scheduled for construction. * Caltrans' recommendation (approve or
   disapprove) based on at least the following: - All conditions for loan
   approval specified in Government Code Section 14529.6(b) have/have not
   been met. - The fiscal assessment by the independent fiscal analyst. -
   The "status" of the application. * A copy of the Loan Agreement and
   attachments. * Copy of comments from interested parties. After the
   Commission has been assured by Caltrans that all the conditions
   specified in Government Code Section 14529.6(b) have been met, and the
   local entity has the resources and capability of repaying the loan, the
   Commission shall act on the loan. The Commission may delegate authority
   to Caltrans to execute (sign) the loan agreement once the Commission
   approves a loan. 4 The statutes allow Caltrans a period of 30 days
   after loan approval to transmit the loaned funds to the recipient. It
   is the intent of the Commission that transmittal of loaned funds is
   accelerated by Caltrans to the extent possible. Any work performed by
   Caltrans under contract or other agreement with a local entity when the
   project is being funded from monies loaned under this program shall be
   undertaken in conformance to provisions of Government Code Section
   14529.3. Under no circumstances will loaned monies be held as advance
   collections in the SHA pending completion of reimbursed work. Loaned
   monies will be transmitted directly to applicants. 3.5 Loan Terms Loan
   terms specified in Government Code Section 14529.6(b) apply to all
   loans approved by the CTC under this program. Loans must be repaid
   within four (4) years from the date the loan is made. However, for the
   stated purpose of informing potential loan applicants of the
   availability of funds to be loaned, the Commission is required to adopt
   a semi-annual projection of funds available to loan, and the length of
   times funds are available. The projection may show funds are available
   for different lengths of time within the 4-year period allowed by law.
   Applicants will base their loan request, and, Caltrans, its
   recommendation, on the adopted projection in effect at the time the
   application was received. To ensure that applicants are fully aware of
   funding availability and time limitations, it shall be Caltrans'
   responsibility to inform applicants of the status at the time a
   "Uniform Loan Application and Agreement" package is requested by the
   applicant. Repayment of loans must be in cash from non-state sources.
   Cash from non-state sources may include, but is not limited to, local
   funding such as "measure" money or bond proceeds that have been
   approved through a public vote for transportation purposes, or sales
   tax or gas tax money that flows directly to the local entity. Cash from
   non-state sources does not include monies that would be allocated by
   the Commission as direct STIP project allocations, or as subventions
   funded from either state or federal resources. [E.g.: Local sales
   taxes, fuel taxes, measure money, motor vehicle fees, and developer
   fees are examples of fund sources that may be used for repayment;
   Regional Surface Transportation Program (RSTP) and Congestion
   Mitigation and Air Quality Program (CMAQ) funds do not qualify.]
   Interest must be charged at the rate paid on money in the Pooled Money
   Investment Account (PMIA) during the period of time the money is
   loaned. Repayment of the principal, interest, and penalties, if any,
   must be made to the State Highway Account. Because the PMIA rate
   changes quarterly, Caltrans shall fully disclose the manner in which
   interest will be assessed over the length of the loan in the "Uniform
   Loan Application and Agreement." A history of the PMIA Yield Rates can
   be found at the State Controller's Office web site:
   http://www.sco.ca.gov/ard/pooled/pmia.pdf. Caltrans shall require
   applicants to include in their application a financial plan that
   demonstrates full funding of the project and the proposed loan
   repayment plan. The 5 financial plan is to include full funding of all
   phases of the project, including those not provided for by the loaned
   funds, an expenditure plan for the project, and the proposed plan of
   repayment of principal and interest on the loan, including fund
   sources. There shall be, however, no penalty for prepayment of
   principal and/or interest made in advance of the proposed plan. 3.6
   Project Overruns Applicants are responsible to make accurate estimates
   of project costs. A local entity receiving a loan under this program
   shall be responsible for funding any deficiencies over the loaned
   amount. 3.7 Delay of Construction and Notification Rescinding the Loan
   Government Code Section 14529.6(b)(13) requires projects funded under
   this program to be under construction not later than six (6) months
   after transmittal of loan funds. If construction does not begin before
   the date set by Caltrans under this provision, Caltrans is required to
   notify the applicant that the loan, plus interest, must be repaid
   within ten (10) days after notification is made to avoid default.
   Caltrans will set the final date that construction may begin at the
   time it sets the date that funds are to be transmitted to the recipient
   following approval of the loan. As directed by the statute, Caltrans
   will require applicants to agree in writing that construction of the
   project will begin no later than the date set by Caltrans. For the
   purposes of these guidelines, "construction" is defined as the "award
   of construction" date. Recipients of loans under this program shall
   provide Caltrans with a copy of the executed construction contract on,
   or before, the date set by Caltrans for construction to begin, as
   evidence that "construction" has begun. If, for any reason, the project
   must be re- advertised for contract award after the date set by
   Caltrans, the loan shall be in default and all principal, interest, and
   penalties prescribed by Government Code Section 14529.6(b)(7) are
   immediately due and payable. The Commission recognizes that situations
   may arise that could delay the construction date far beyond the six
   months, or prevent it altogether. If known early by the recipient of a
   loan, the loaned monies plus interest may be voluntarily repaid early
   for re-circulation within the loan program. Therefore, at any time
   prior to the date set by Caltrans for construction to begin, if a local
   entity becomes aware that construction may be delayed for an indefinite
   time period, the entity may notify Caltrans, in writing, that the loan
   may be rescinded early. Upon receipt of the notification, Caltrans may
   immediately rescind the loan and no penalties will be assessed
   (interest charges will still apply for the period the loan was in
   effect). Caltrans shall provide a written notification to the
   Commission within 30 days, with the particulars of any rescinded loan.
   As part of the notification, Caltrans shall advise the Commission of
   the availability of the returned monies for re-circulation within the
   loan program. 6 3.8 Monitoring and Reporting Caltrans shall be
   responsible to monitor loans and repayment schedules and to provide a
   semi-annual "status of loans report" to the Commission. The report
   shall be submitted at the time Caltrans reports the six-month cash-flow
   needs of the STIP, prior to the Commission adopting projections of
   available funds to be loaned on January 15 and July 15 each year. 3.9
   Reporting of Defaults Caltrans shall immediately report any default to
   the Commission. In addition to detailed specifics regarding the
   default, the report shall include information on how repayment of the
   principal, interest, and penalty will be made. County shares will be
   reduced to satisfy the default requirements in accordance to Government
   Section 14529.6(b)(7). Interest will continue to accrue on any loan
   that is in default up to the date the county share reduction is made.
   Reductions in county share funding and ineligibility for regional share
   fund programming are to be outlined in the report. 4 PROCEDURES 4.1
   Department of Transportation Responsibilities Caltrans is responsible
   for reviewing and analyzing applications in a timely manner. Caltrans
   will review and analyze each application and make a determination
   whether all the conditions required for loan approval specified in
   Government Code Section 14529.6 are met. Caltrans will submit a loan
   request and/or a recommendation to approve or disapprove the loan to
   the Commission for each application it receives. Caltrans will review
   and analyze each application in the order it is received. There is,
   however, no guarantee an application received first will be approved
   when other factors have been weighed. Caltrans will rank each
   application based on the analysis conducted by an independent fiscal
   consultant of the applicant's ability to repay the loan. Caltrans will
   also use criteria as stated in Section 3.1 of the Guidelines to
   determine the application's "status," or placement in line for
   available funds. Processes conducted during the 30-day period following
   CTC approval of a loan will include the following: * The reconciliation
   of discrepancies between the approved loan amount and terms of
   repayment if different than requested in the application. * Setting of
   the date to transmit loaned monies and the final date for construction
   to begin, which will be within six (6) months after loaned monies are
   transmitted. * Obtaining the applicant's written agreement that
   construction will begin by the date set by Caltrans. * Execution of the
   loan agreement. * Accounting activities necessary to transmit loaned
   monies. Caltrans will transmit loaned monies directly to the applicant
   no later than 30 days after the Commission approves a loan request. 7
   4.2 Eligible Applicants Any local entity that is a transportation
   planning agency or county transportation commission, that is also the
   approving authority for the county's submission to the STIP, may apply
   for a loan under this program. Other local entities such as transit
   districts, city or county governments or local transportation
   authorities applying for a loan under this program must apply jointly
   with a regional transportation planning agency or county transportation
   commission that is the approving authority for the county's submission
   to the STIP. 4.3 Approval Subject to Funding Minimums/Maximums Approval
   of a loan application is subject to the Commission's adopted projection
   in effect at the time the application is received by Caltrans and the
   following statutory minimums and maximums: - The SHA balance must
   exceed $400 million. - The aggregate amount of outstanding loans must
   not exceed $500 million at any one time. The criteria established in
   Guidelines Section 3.1 will be used when loan approval would result in
   the minimum or maximum limitations being exceeded, as stated in the
   adopted projection or in statutes. When recommendations are being made
   for two or more applications at the same CTC meeting, and all other
   factors are equal, Caltrans will base its recommendation for approval
   or disapproval of an application on its status. Example: (Assume each
   application includes funding for one (1) project.) Amount Date
   Cumulative Requested Received Status Recommendation Available $25
   million $15 million 5/10/00 1 Approve $10 million $15 million 5/15/00 3
   Disapprove $10 million 5/20/00 2 Approve $ 0 Note: Using the same
   example, assume the first application includes a funding request for
   two $15 million projects. If the applicant agrees in writing to delete
   one project from the request, Caltrans' recommendation would be the
   same as shown in the example. If, however, the first application
   includes a funding request for one $15 million project and one $10
   million project, the recommendation would be to approve the first
   application, and disapprove the second and third applications. Caltrans
   will not hold applications over for later processing whenever funding
   capacity has been reached. The Commission will suspend the loan program
   when the SHA balance is less than $400 million, or terminate the
   program whenever termination is deemed to be the most prudent action.
   Applications will not be processed during any suspension period.
   Applicants are encouraged to contact Caltrans' Innovative Finance
   Program in Sacramento to determine the program status before submitting
   an application. 8 4.4 Project and Applicant Requirements 4.4.1
   Ineligible Projects Loans made under the SHA Loan Program are subject
   to funding restrictions of Article XIX of the California Constitution.
   Caltrans will automatically reject an application that includes funding
   for any project that would be prohibited under Article XIX (i.e.,
   rolling stock, freight carrier, non-transportation related, etc.).
   4.4.2 Minimum Project Requirements Loan applications for projects that
   do not meet the following minimum requirements will not be considered
   further: - The project is STIP eligible and included in an RTP adopted
   by a Regional Planning Agency. - The project complies with California
   Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) certification requirements and has an
   Environmental Impact Report prepared. - For each project, costs are
   greater than $10 million, unless waived by CTC for a county with less
   than 500,000 population, and then the project costs are equal to, or
   less than, 50% of the current county's share. When an application
   includes more than one project, each project must meet minimum project
   requirements. 4.4.3 Project Readiness Monies advanced as loans under
   this program are for the capital improvement phase of transportation
   projects. It is the applicant's responsibility to evaluate whether the
   project is at the stage of development that construction can reasonably
   be expected to begin within 6 months from the date loaned monies are
   transmitted. 4.4.4 Applicant Requirements and Responsibilities
   Applicants are required to certify that no other funds are available
   and that there is no intent to borrow and then bank or invest SHA funds
   at a higher yield than the PMIA rate. This would create an arbitrage
   situation that is not allowed under this loan program. Applicants
   should review existing resources to identify other funding sources that
   may be available to fund the project. During this process, applicants
   are encouraged to investigate the possibility that the project may be
   eligible for federal funds. Applicants must limit a loan request for
   any single county for one or more projects to an amount not greater
   than $100 million that does not exceed 50 percent of the regional share
   funding allocation (county share) as published in the most recent STIP
   Fund Estimate for that county. When the application is for multiple
   projects, applicants must prioritize the projects. Following
   negotiations authorized by Section 3.1 of the guidelines, Caltrans may
   recommend the Commission approve a reduced loan amount dependent upon
   deletion of one or more projects from the application. Applicants
   electing to delete one or more lower priority 9 projects from the
   application must submit a revised application at least two (2) working
   days prior to the CTC meeting at which Caltrans' recommendation will be
   heard. Applicants must demonstrate their ability to repay the loan from
   non-state sources. Following their own procurement process, applicants
   must select an independent fiscal consultant from an approved list to
   conduct a fiscal assessment of the local entity's ability to repay the
   loan. Costs incurred for the fiscal assessment must be paid by the
   applicant, and are not to be included in the loan request. Additional
   information concerning the pre- qualified independent fiscal consultant
   list and responsibilities of the fiscal consultant and applicant is
   included in Section 3.2 and Section 4.5 of these guidelines and
   procedures. 4.5 Independent Fiscal Consultant Requirements and
   Responsibilities 4.5.1 Fiscal Assessment Required A fiscal consultant
   selected by an applicant for a loan under this program must perform a
   fiscal assessment that includes a review of the applicant's most recent
   audited financial statements and available working papers, audit
   reports, and potential legal claims and or liabilities pending that may
   impact the applicant's ability to repay a loan. The fiscal assessment
   must provide the information necessary to show, at minimum, that the
   applicant is capable of repaying the loan in the manner, and within the
   terms, specified in the loan agreement. Failure of an applicant to
   demonstrate their capability of meeting this requirement is cause for
   Caltrans to recommend disapproval of an application. The applicant is
   to be provided with a written report of findings of the fiscal
   assessment that may include attachments as necessary. The report must
   include the fiscal consultant's "warranty of independence" to express
   an opinion on the financial status of the applicant. The original copy
   of the report is to be submitted by the applicant to Caltrans when the
   application for a loan is filed. The fiscal consultant must be
   available to answer questions made by the Commission, Caltrans or the
   applicant on the contents of the written report. 4.5.2 Applicant to
   Exercise Due Diligence The Approving Authority for the county's STIP
   submittal, either as applicant or co-applicant, will place at risk
   future county shares as collateral for the loan. An unsound financial
   judgement on the part of the fiscal consultant may lead to default of
   the loan and loss to the county of future county share funding and
   programming. Therefore, it is imperative that the applicant exercise
   due diligence in determining that 1) the consultant has the
   organization and experience necessary to perform a complex financial
   analysis specific to the loan that will be requested, and 2) the
   consultant's report is accurate in its material representations.
   Applicants are not limited in their selection of a fiscal consultant to
   those consultants included on the currently approved "pre-qualified"
   list, which is continuously updated. Section 3.2 of these guidelines
   and procedures provides the applicant with the flexibility to select a
   qualified consultant who is not currently on the approved list,
   provided the consultant's credentials are validated by Caltrans prior
   to approval of the loan. 10 4.6 Approving Authority Responsibilities
   The Approving Authority for the county's STIP submittal must be either
   the applicant, or the co-applicant. In either event, the governing body
   for the Approving Authority must voice its approval, by resolution or
   other instrument, to enter into the loan for the purpose and terms
   stated in the application and agreement. The governing body must show
   in the resolution or other instrument that it recognizes that future
   county share allocations and regional choice fund programming are
   collateral in the case of default on the loan, and that in the
   judgement of the Approving Authority, the conclusion of the financial
   analysis completed by the financial consultant is sound. A copy of the
   approving resolution or other instrument must be submitted with the
   application. 4.7 Uniform Loan Application and Agreement Package
   Applications must be completed using the "Uniform Loan Application and
   Agreement" package adopted by the Commission. The loan package can be
   requested from: State Highway Account Loan Program Attention:
   California Department of Transportation Loan Officer, Innovative
   Finance 1120 N Street, MS-6 Phone: (916) 324-7623 Sacramento, CA 95814
   FAX: (916) 324-7708 or obtained from the Commission's web page:
   http://www.dot.ca.gov/CTC/. Applicants must submit an original and
   three copies of all materials submitted to Caltrans for a loan under
   the State Highway Account Loan Program. To assure a place on the agenda
   for the earliest CTC meeting, applications must be submitted to the
   Caltrans Innovative Finance Program at the same time other meeting
   material submittals are due (see Guidelines Section 3.4). The CTC
   meeting material submittal dates are posted on the Commission's web
   page. 4.8 Additional Information on the Loan Program and Procedures
   Questions and information requests related to the State Highway Account
   Loan Program and procedures can be directed to: State Highway Account
   Loan Program Attention: California Department of Transportation Loan
   Officer, Innovative Finance 1120 N Street, MS-6 Phone: (916) 324-7623
   Sacramento, CA 95814 FAX: (916) 324-7708 11
