http://ccr.nci.nih.gov/careers/student_programs.asp

   Link to National Cancer Institute Center for Cancer Research
   Link to Contact CCR Link to CCR Homepage Link to NCI home Link to NIH
   home
   _______________ Search

   Careers/Training


   Positions Available
   Postdoctoral Fellowships
   Student Programs
   CCR Trainees Assembly
   Trainees Assembly Retreat

   Student Programs

   All NIH/NCI-sponsored traineeships are intended to increase the number
   of scientists who specialize in the basic and/or clinical biomedical
   research fields. There are programs for recent college graduates,
   postdoctoral fellowships for foreign graduates, and summer internships
   for high school, college, and graduate students. For more detailed
   information, go to NIH Student Programs.

   Training for Recent College Graduates:

   The Postbaccalaureate Cancer Research Training Award (CRTA) Fellowship
   Program provides opportunities for recent college graduates (U.S.
   citizens and permanent residents) to spend a year engaged in biomedical
   investigation at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), which has
   campuses located in Bethesda and Frederick, Maryland. In this program,
   participants work side-by-side with some of the world's leading
   scientists, in an environment that is devoted exclusively to biomedical
   research. During their tenure in this program, postbaccalaureate
   fellows are expected to initiate the application process for graduate
   or medical school. The duration of the program is normally 1 year, but
   the fellowship can be extended for an additional year if the
   performance of the trainee is satisfactory and if continued support by
   the laboratory is available. For more information, click here.

   Postdoctoral Training for Foreign Graduates:

   The Visiting Fellow (VF) Program provides training experience for
   foreign postdoctoral scientists at the NCI in basic and/or clinical
   biomedical or behavioral research aimed at preventing, diagnosing, or
   treating cancer. Visiting Fellows must have a doctoral degree or
   equivalent in the health sciences and not more than 5 years of relevant
   postdoctoral research experience at the start of the fellowship period.
   Visiting Fellow awards generally are made for 2 years, although a
   1-year award is an option. Fellowships are renewable for up to 5 years,
   based on merit. For more information on the Visiting Fellow Program,
   click here.

   Training for Summer Students:

   The Summer Internship Program (SIP) in Biomedical Research is intended
   to provide exciting research experiences to students (in high school,
   college, or graduate school) in our laboratories located at NCI's
   Bethesda and Frederick, Maryland campuses. In this program, students
   work directly with internationally renowned researchers in their
   laboratories. In addition to the laboratory experience, summer students
   have the opportunity to attend a summer seminar series in which senior
   NIH investigators discuss the latest developments in biomedical
   research. For more information, click here.

   Link to NIH

       CCR Home | About CCR | Clinical Trials | Research | Employment
        Featured Initiatives | News | Events | Site Privacy Policy |
                                Accessibility

   ©2000-2001 Center for Cancer Research at the National Cancer Institute

   Link to FirstGov
