http://www.tasc.dot.gov/archives/index.cfm

              TASC Archives Banner Search


                                            __________
                                   Department Of Transportation

   Home Archives Online Directory Service Request


   January

   2001 Archives

   [getacro.gif]
   January 2002

   TASC Provides Pre-Employment Drug Testing Services For Federal Air
   Marshals.
   TASC will provide pre-employment drug testing for Federal Air Marshals,
   enabling the FAA to accommodate the hiring spike in this catagory of
   jobs that was not anticipate when the 2002 budget was created. The
   volume and unique circumstances of the testing, enabled TASC to
   negotiate not only a significant savings on behalf of the FAA but also
   to increase on-site contractor services. In the 6 month period over
   which the agreement extends, TASC will conduct more than 6 times the
   pre-employment testing normally done in an entire year for DOT.

   DOT Connection a Resource for Information on Federal Airport Security
   Screening Positions.

   On November 19, 2001, President Bush signed the Transportation Security
   Act, making airport security a direct Federal responsibility. As a
   result of this legislation, DOT will hire a significant number of new
   Federal security screeners. The new security force will be comprised of
   highly qualified and well-trained U.S. citizens.

   In response to the tidal wave of phone calls we have been receiving
   (40,000 and counting), we have created an on-line shortcut to the
   mailing list database. We think this utility will relieve some of the
   telephone burden and, even more importantly, improve the accuracy of
   the name and address information that is being collected.

   Feel free to check the websites for the Department of Transportation
   (www.dot.gov), the Office of Personnel Management
   (www.usajobs.opm.gov), or the Federal Aviation Administration
   (http://jobs.faa.gov) for regular updates.

   DOT Library Hosts Lexis-Nexis Training.
   The Aviation Branch of the DOT Library will sponsor Database Research
   Training for persons with Lexis-Nexis IDs on January 8, 2002, from 11
   a.m. - 12:30 p.m. in Conference Room 5B at the FAA Building (FOB 10A).
   The session will focus on Basic News Searching on LEXIS.COM. A second
   session will be presented on January 16, 2002, from 12 noon to1:00 pm
   in room 7234 at the Nassif Building that will focus on Americans with
   Disabilities Act Compliance Resources available on LEXIS.COM.

   DOT Connection to Offer Parenting Seminar
   A social psychologist who focuses on teenage prevention programs and
   family support systems will lead a seminar and discussion on parenting
   issues related to teenagers in January. Contact For more information,
   call DOT Connection at (202) 366-9392 or (800) 525-2878 or via email at
   dotconn@tasc.dot.gov.

   DOT Volunteer Committee Hosts Holiday Party for Senior Citizens
   DOT employees sponsored a holiday party for more than 50 senior
   citizens from the Greenleaf Center and Sarah's Circle in Washington,
   DC. Secretary Mineta joined the group for lunch. Entertainment was
   provided by the DOT Tots and the "M-tertainers (M-10 employees). Santa
   was on site and each senior received a holiday gift bag of goodies
   donated by DOT employees.

   Home | Archives| On-line Directory | Service Request | Search

   TASC
   Nassif Building
   400 Seventh Street, SW
   Washington, D.C. 20590-0001
   Voice: 202-366-4747 TTY: FAX:
