http://www.azd.uscourts.gov/azd/courtinfo.nsf/7f77af8ebdbeff2288256448005e75b0?OpenView

   USDC-AZ Homepage
   [ISMAP:0.81C?OpenElement&FieldElemFormat=jpg]-[USEMAP:0.81C?OpenElement
   &FieldElemFormat=jpg]

   Other Information

     * Alternative Dispute Resolution
     * Attorney Admissions Information
     * Cases of Interest
     * CJA
     * Court Records Access
     * Fee Schedule
     * Filing a Complaint on Your Own Behalf
     * Forms
     * Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
     * General Orders
     * Jury Information
     * Local Rules
     * Public Notices

   Your Comments
   Forms
   [azdsearchbutton.gif?OpenImageResource]


   Application and Instructions for Arizona Attorneys to Gain Admission to
   Practice -- Applies to Arizona attorneys
   Application and Instructions for Out-of-State Attorneys to Appear Pro
   Hac Vice --Applies to out-of-state attorneys.
   Bill of Costs --Form to be completed by prevailing party after entry of
   final judgment.
   Civil Cover Sheet (JS 44) --Form is required when filing a new civil
   case with the Clerk of Court.
   Code of Conduct for Attorneys --Sets out the standards for professional
   conduct for lawyers and judges in this district.
   Consent to Exercise of Jurisdiction by United States Magistrate Judge
   --To be used when a civil case is filed and a magistrate judge is
   assigned as the presider. The parties must complete this form and elect
   the option to continue with a magistrate judge as presider or elect the
   option to have the case assigned to a district judge.
   Fax Notice Authorization Form --Authorization form to send orders and
   judgments by facsimile transmission.
   Filing a Complaint on Your Own Behalf --Procedural guidelines on how to
   file a civil action on your own behalf (Pro Se).
   Notice of Availability of a United States Magistrate Judge to Exercise
   Jurisdiction --Form to be used when a civil case is filed and assigned
   to a District judge and the parties consent to proceed before a
   Magistrate judge
   Notice of Waiver (AO 398) --An economical method of notifying the
   defendant that an action has been filed, and to encourage waiver of
   service.
   Notice to All Out-of-State Attorneys Admitted to Practice in District
   of Arizona Prior to September 15, 1999 --Local Rule 1.5 establishes a
   pro hac vice provision
   Prisoner Form - Application to
   Proceed In Forma Pauperis by a
   Prisoner (Habeas Corpus) --Form to prepare an application to proceed in
   forma pauperis by a prisoner (Habeas Corpus).
   Prisoner Form - Application to Proceed In Forma Pauperis by a Prisoner
   (Non-Habeas) --Form and instructions for prisoners seeking leave to
   proceed with a (non-habeas) civil action in Federal Court in forma
   pauperis.
   Prisoner Form - Civil Rights Complaint by Prisoners --Form and
   instructions designed to help prisoners prepare a complaint seeking
   relief for a violation of their federal civil rights.
   Prisoner Form - Motion to Vacate, Set Aside, or Correct Sentence by a
   Person in Federal Custody Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 2255 --Form to
   prepare a Motion to Vacate, Set Aside, or Correct Sentence by a Person
   in Federal Custody Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 2255.
   Prisoner Form - Petition for Writ of Habeas Corpus by a Person in
   Federal Custody Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 2241 --Form and instructions
   designed to help prisoners prepare a Petition for Writ of Habeas Corpus
   by a Person in Federal Custody pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 2241.
   Prisoner Form - Petition for Writ of Habeas Corpus by a Person in State
   Custody Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 2254 --Form and instructions designed
   to help prisoners prepare a petition challenging their custody on the
   grounds that their state conviction or sentence violates the United
   States Constitution or other federal law.
   Subpoena in a Civil Case (AO 88) --Commands a person to appear before
   the court to give testimony, taking a disposition, or to produce
   documents or objects.
   Summons in a Civil Case (AO 440) --A notice, issued by the clerk, to
   defendant that action has been filed.
   Supplemental Civil Cover Sheet --This form is to be included with the
   Civil Cover Sheet for cases that are removed from another jurisdiction.
   Tape Order Form and Instructions (AO 436) --Use this form to order
   duplicate tapes of proceedings.
   Transcript Order Form and Instructions (AO 435) --Use this form to
   order transcript of proceedings.
   Waiver of Service (AO 399) --Acknowledgment signed by defendant
   verifying receipt of complaint and agreement to waive service by
   summons.
   Attorney Admissions Status Inquiry
   --Look up attorney admission status by name or by status.
   Page up Page down Expand all sections Collapse all sections Search this
   listing only
