http://www.nyeb.uscourts.gov/web_policy.htm

                                [banner2.gif]

   Hon. Conrad B. Duberstein, Chief Judge [usa_seal.gif] Joseph P. Hurley,
                               Clerk of Court

                      Home Feedback Site Map Web Policy

                                 Web Policy
                                    Home


                               [astonrul.gif]

   You are entering an official United States Government System which may
   be used only for authorized purposes. Thank you for visiting the
   internet web site of the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Eastern
   District of New York.

   We are committed to protecting your privacy rights. These rights are
   ensured through the Privacy Act and other federal statutes. We will not
   collect personal information about you just because you visit this
   site.

   The Government may monitor and audit usage of this system and all
   persons are hereby notified that use of this system constitutes consent
   to such monitoring and auditing. Unauthorized attempts to upload
   information and/or change information on these web sites are strictly
   prohibited and are subject to prosecution under the Computer Fraud and
   Abuse Act of 1986 and Title 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1001 and 1030.

   In order to improve the usefulness of our web site for our visitors, we
   automatically collect and maintain statistical information from our
   site's data logs that concern network traffic flow and volume. This
   information consists of the name of the domain from which you access
   the Internet, the date and time you accessed our site, the item you
   requested from the server, and the Internet address of the web site
   from which you linked to our site. We also record the type and status
   code of the request (success/failure). This information does not
   identify individual visitors.

   We do not use "cookies," a file placed on a visitor's hard drive that
   allows the web site to monitor the individual's use of the site. No
   attempts are made to identify users unless illegal behavior is
   suspected. We also monitor network traffic to identify unauthorized
   attempts to upload or change information or otherwise cause damage to
   the web service. We focus on web site security so that this service
   remains available to you and other visitors.

   When you send us personally identifying information, such as through an
   email message to us or via a form filled out while you visit us, be
   aware that confidentiality of Internet transmissions is not guaranteed.
   It is up to you if you want to assume the risk of an unauthorized
   person learning your email address or any other personal information
   you provide. We will not share the information you give us with anyone
   unless required by law. We also will not collect or sell your
   information for commercial purposes.

                               [astonrul.gif]
