http://jlarc.leg.wa.gov/AboutJLARC.htm

           jlarc.jpg (39304 bytes)
   Home Bottom Line Mission Strategic Plan




   Home
   List of Reports
   Reports
   Summaries
   Meetings
   NCSL 2001
   Work Plan
   Request for Proposal
   JLARC Newsletters
   About JLARC
   Staff
   Employment
   Links
   What's New?

                            Washington State Flag


About JLARC and its Operations

                                [ablrule.gif]

   Established by Chapter 44.28 RCW, the Joint Legislative Audit and
   Review Committee (JLARC) provides oversight of state funded programs
   and activities.  Membership in this bipartisan legislative committee
   consists of eight senators and eight representatives equally divided
   between the two major political parties.

                                [ablrule.gif]


   CAPTION: JOINT LEGISLATIVE AUDIT AND REVIEW COMMITTEE

    Sen. Darlene Fairley                  Rep. Gary Alexander, Secretary
    Sen. Georgia Gardner, Asst. Secretary Rep. Kathy Haigh
    Sen. Jim Horn, Vice Chair             Rep. Fred Jarrett
    Sen. Bob Oke                          Rep. Tom Mielke
    Sen. Debbie Regala                    Rep. Mark Miloscia
    Sen. Val Stevens                      Rep. Joyce Mulliken
    Sen. Pat Thibaudeau                   Rep. Val Ogden, Chair
    Sen. Joseph Zarelli                   Rep. Phil Rockefeller

                                [ablrule.gif]

   Click here for a fact sheet and overview of JLARC. Acrobat Reader PDF
   File (logo)

   The Joint Legislative Audit and Review Committee (JLARC) carries out
   oversight, review and evaluation of state-funded programs and
   activities on behalf of the Legislature and the citizens of Washington
   State.  This joint, bipartisan committee consists of eight senators and
   eight representatives, equally divided between the two major political
   parties.  Its statutory authority is established in RCW 44.28.
   JLARC staff, under the direction of the Committee and the Legislative
   Auditor, conduct performance audits, program evaluations, sunset
   reviews and other policy and fiscal studies.  These studies assess the
   efficiency and effectiveness of agency operations, impacts and outcomes
   of state programs, and levels of compliance with legislative direction
   and intent.  The Committee makes recommendations to improve state
   government performance and to correct problems it identifies.  The
   Committee also follows up on these recommendations to determine   how
   they have been implemented.  JLARC has, in recent years, received
   national recognition for a number of its major studies.

   NOTE:  The former Legislative Budget Committee was changed to the Joint
   Legislative Audit and Review Committee in 1996 legislation.

Quality Control Peer Review

   The Joint Legislative Audit and Review Committee (JLARC) underwent an
   independent quality control review, as required in its statute (RCW
   44.28.094_).  This review included an evaluation of the quality of the
   Committee's audits and studies, an assessment of the Committee's study
   procedures, and a review of the professional qualifications of the
   Committee's staff.

   The peer review panel concluded that JLARC's work represents high
   quality research as measured against professional standards, and also
   identified areas where improvements can be made.  JLARC's staff
   counterparts from Wisconsin, Montana, Ohio, and Mississippi conducted
   this evaluation.

   For further details regarding this peer review, please contact JLARC's
   Legislative Auditor Tom Sykes at 360-786-5175 or e-mail at
   sykes_to@leg.wa.gov.

Awards

   Attesting to the credibility and quality of JLARC's work as reviewed
   and evaluated by its national peers, awards received by JLARC include:

National Conference of State Legislatures (NCSL)
National Legislative Program Evaluation Society (NLPES)

   2001 Impact Award
   -- Mental Health System Performance Audit

   A 2001 Recognition of Impact award from the National Legislative
   Program Evaluation Section (NLPES) for JLARC's performance audit of
   Washington State's Mental Health System.  JLARC made 14 recommendations
   geared to improving the performance of mental health programs, and to
   give higher priority to better client outcomes as a key part of this
   improved performance.  In addition, the 2001 Legislature enacted bills
   to require changes to compliment JLARC's recommendations.

   2000 Impact Award
   -- Rural Area Marketing Plan Evaluation

   A 2000 Recognition of Impact Award from the National Legislative
   Program Evaluation Section (NLPES) of the National Conference of State
   Legislatures (NCSL) for JLARC's Rural Area Marketing Plan Evaluation.
   This study outlined "lessons learned" in JLARC's evaluation of some of
   Washington's recent economic development efforts.  One of the impacts
   of this study was to propose a strengthened Washington Sunset law-that
   law was enacted in the 2000 session.

   1999 Excellence in Evaluation Award
   -- Worker's Compensation and Department of Corrections Performance
   Audits

   The 1999 Excellence in Evaluation Award for recent accomplishments on
   Worker's Compensation and Department of Corrections performance audits.
   The Excellence in Evaluation Award is awarded annually by the National
   Conference of State Legislatures and its National Legislative Program
   Evaluation Society to legislative performance audit committees whose
   work on state problems and issues contributes to legislative
   decision-making.

   1998 Excellence in Evaluation Award
   -- Nursing Home Reimbursement System Performance Audit

   A 1998 Impact Award from the National Conference of State Legislatures
   for the performance audit and follow-up work done on the state's
   Nursing Home Reimbursement System.  Based on recommendations contained
   in the nursing home report, completed in 1994, the legislature reduced
   the budget for nursing home payments by $39 million in its 1995
   session.  It also repealed the existing reimbursement system effective
   July 1998 and directed the state's Department of Social and Health
   Services to develop a new system in consultation with JLARC.  This new
   system was approved by the legislature during its 1998 session.  The
   ongoing fiscal impact of the report is over $50 million in savings per
   year.

   1997 Impact Award
   --State Investment Board Performance Audit

   An Impact Award in 1997 from the National Legislative Program
   Evaluation Society of the National Conference of State Legislatures for
   JLARC's 1992 performance audit of the State Investment Board (SIB).
   That audit achieved considerable cost savings on behalf of the citizens
   of Washington State, including a $140 million settlement payment to the
   SIB by a real estate investment firm.

   1992 Excellence in Research Design and Methodology

   A 1992 award from the National Legislative Program Evaluation Society
   of the National Conference of State Legislatures, for excellence in
   research design and methodology.

Professional Affiliations

   Staff professional affiliations include:

   bullet American Education Finance Association (AEFA)
   bullet American Evaluation Association (AEA)
   bullet American Society for Public Administration (ASPA)
   bullet Association of Government Accountants (AGA)
   bullet Association for Public Policy Analysis and Management (APPAM)
   bullet Canadian Evaluation Society
   bullet National Conference of State Legislatures (NCSL)
   bullet National Legislative Program Evaluation Society (NLPES)
   bullet Pacific Northwest Intergovernmental Audit Forum

  Results of JLARC (formerly LBC) Sunset Reviews

   As of January 1, 2001, the JLARC/LBC has conducted 107 sunset reviews.
   The Committee recommendations were as follows:

   bullet Terminate: 31
   bullet Continue with modifications: 53
   bullet Continue/Reauthorize with no changes: 22
   bullet No Action: 1
   bullet TOTAL: 107

                                [ablrule.gif]

   Return to top
