http://www2.bfrl.nist.gov/profiles/profiles.asp?lastname=rodenhauser

   . . . . . . . . . . .
   BFRL Staff | Robin R. Rodenhauser
   . Link to NIST .
   .
   Link to Home Link to Research Areas Link to BFRL Publications Link to
   BFRL Software Link to BFRL Staff Information Link to Contact
   Information Link to Ask the Experts Section .

                     Contact Info.   Contact Information

   Photograph of Robin Rodenhauser   Ms. Rodenhauser started her Federal
   service in 1991 as a clerk/typist for the Office of Inspector General
   within the Department of Interior. She joined NIST in 1993 as a
   full-time secretary for the Lighting and Computer Integrated
   Construction Groups. The Lighting Group was disbanded and she undertook
   the Indoor Air Quality Group while still maintaining the Computer
   Integrated Construction Group. She still directs Lighting questions and
   requests for publications appropriately. During 1991 to 1995, Ms.
   Rodenhauser attended Frederick Community College as an evening
   undergraduate in Computer Science. Then in 1996, she transferred to the
   University of Maryland University College as a full-time evening
   student enrolled in Paralegal and Criminology classes. In May, 1998 she
   obtained her Bachelor of Science in Paralegal Studies. In January,
   2001, Ms. Rodenhauser became the Division Secretary for the Building
   Environment Division. She still provides administrative support and
   manuscript preparation services to the Computer Integrated Construction
   Group in addition to her responsibilities as Division Secretary.


Robin R. Rodenhauser

Education

   University of Maryland, University College, B.S., Paralegal Studies,
   1998

Position

   Division Secretary
   Building Environment Division
   Building and Fire Research Laboratory

                                Graphic Rule

     Privacy Statement/Security Notice  |  Disclaimer  |  FOIA

   NIST is an agency of the U.S. Commerce Department's Technology
   Administration.

   Link to NIST Centennial Site
                                                                 BFRL Logo

                           Date created: 3/21/2001
                           Last updated: 5/7/2001
