http://www.gsbca.gsa.gov/intern.htm

                      JUDICIAL LEGAL INTERN OPPORTUNITY

   The General Services Administration Board of Contract Appeals is
   seeking law students to serve as legal interns for judges. The Board is
   a judicial body within the federal executive branch that conducts
   hearings and decides cases concerning contracts between government
   agencies and private companies. Our decisions are reported in Board of
   Contract Appeals Decisions (CCH), and appeals from our decisions are
   taken to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. We
   also adjudicate claims filed by companies which provide transportation
   services to the government and claims filed by government employees.

   Legal interns assist Board judges by conducting legal research,
   drafting legal memoranda, preparing analyses of facts, assisting in the
   preparation of orders and decisions, and attending hearings.

   These internships are unpaid positions and there is no possibility that
   you will be paid for your work.

   You must receive academic credit for your internship except during the
   summer. There are no exceptions to this requirement.

   Interns are required to work a minimum of 15 hours per week.

   Interns must be able to use Westlaw and WordPerfect.

   Applicants should send a law school transcript, a resume, and a cover
   letter to:

                           Judge Martha H. DeGraff
                           Re: Intern Announcement
                          Board of Contract Appeals
                       General Services Administration
                                  Room 7022
                             1800 F Streets, NW
                            Washington, DC 20405
   If your transcript does not reflect last semester's grades, include
   those grades in your cover letter. State in your cover letter whether
   you are available for the fall, summer, or spring semester. We accept
   applications at any time.

                 THE GSBCA IS AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
