http://www.baltimorecity.gov/news/ravensagain.html


   Home
   What's New
   F.A.Q.
   Neighborhoods
   City Services
   Government
   Mayor
   Search
   *****

     Download a poster

     Letter size .gif
     Letter size .pdf
       Tabloid .gif
       Tabloid .pdf
       33 x 44" .gif
       33 x 44" .pfd
   Scalable .eps vector

    BGE has taken steps to make it even easier. They've set up a hotline
     for building owners go from bright white to Ravens Purple. If this
                 means you, please call BGE at 410-291-3116.

   News


   City Hall Dear Fellow Ravens Fans,

      Last year, Baltimore came together in support of the Ravens during
      their incredible Super Bowl run. Most people would agree that the
      Ravens made their way to a Super Bowl victory because of their
      unwavering grit and determination. However, I'd like to believe that
      part of the win, just a little part of that win, had to do with the
      tide of purple pride that rose throughout Baltimore last winter.

      I am a big believer in the power of lights and the positive effect they
      can have on the morale of a city. So this week, I've ordered last
      year's purple filters dusted off and city hall's dome lighted purple.
      By Wednesday, our dome will shine bright with Ravens pride. And I would
      appreciate your assistance, once again, in our effort to paint the town
   purple.

   [2002.gif] So put signs in your windows. Light your building in purple
   at night. Roll out last year's banners. Do whatever you can to show
   your support for our team. There should be no excuses this year, as you
   have the tools from 2001 to get the lights up and running. Now's the
   time to show the Ravens that Baltimore is behind them. I am certain
   that our innovative business leaders and our proud neighborhoods can
   raise the bar even higher over last year's tremendous effort. And if
   you need any help in figuring out how to get it done, please contact my
   office.

   The Ravens' showed us, once again, that with a little hard work and
   perseverance, anything is possible. Just ask the Miami Dolphins. Now
   they've earned a trip to Pittsburgh, PA en route to New Orleans.
   Imagine what they'll do when the City is purple. We don't have much
   time, so please, get your lights up quick. Let's show the world we can
   do it again. But most importantly, lets show the Ravens we've got their
   back.

                                                   - Mayor Martin O'Malley

                               Additional News


   Home | News | Government | Business | Services | Neighborhoods | Mayor
                             | Visitor | Search

                                  Webmaster

                          Revised: January 16, 2002
