http://www.bxa.doc.gov/Entities/Default.htm

   Link to Main Content for our visually impaired users

   Go to BXA Home Page What's New on the BXA Web Site Conduct a full text
                         Search of the BXA Web site

                                                        BXA Header Graphic

   This page last updated on...
   1/6/02

                               The Entity List

                 Entities of proliferation concern listed in
   Supplement No. 4 to part 744 of the Export Administration Regulations.
                         Red White and Blue Graphic


    The Entity list, in PDF or ASCII text format, is available on the
    Government Printing Office EAR  Web site. While the files sizes may
    vary over time, the PDF file can be as large as 300K and the TXT file
    is about 70K.

                               "*" Background

       Since February 1997, the Federal Register has published several
    Commerce Department rules which added entities to the Entity List, a
   listing of foreign end users involved in proliferation activities. The
    Entity List is based on the Enhanced Proliferation Control Initiative
       (EPCI), which has been implemented in the Export Administration
    Regulations. General Prohibition Five of the EAR prohibits exports to
   certain end-users or end-uses without a license. BXA maintains, in the
      form of Supplement 4 to the Part 744, an "Entity List" to provide
       notice informing the public of certain entities subject to such
                           licensing requirements.

   These end users have been determined to present an unacceptable risk of
     diversion to developing weapons of mass destruction or the missiles
    used to deliver those weapons. Publishing this list puts exporters on
    notice that any products sold to these end users may present concerns
    and will require a license from the Bureau of Export Administration.
   While this list will assist exporters in determining whether an entity
     poses proliferation concerns, it is not comprehensive. It does not
     relieve exporters of the responsibility to determine the nature and
   activities of their potential customers using BXA's Know Your Customer
                           and Red Flags guidance.

   Interagency groups involved in the export control process reviewed the
     activities of the published entities of concern and determined that
    exports to these entities would create an unacceptable risk of use in
   or diversion to prohibited proliferation-related activities. Publishing
     this entities list allows the U.S. government to identify for U.S.
   businesses some of the organizations and companies that may be involved
                        in proliferation activities.

    The development of a list of entities of concern arises from the EPCI
    initiative begun in 1990 to stem the spread of missile technology as
      well as nuclear, chemical and biological weapons. Under EPCI the
    Commerce Department can impose licensing requirements on exports and
   reexports of normally uncontrolled goods and technology where there is
    an unacceptable risk of use in or diversion to activities related to
   nuclear, chemical or biological weapons or missile proliferation, even
              if the end user is not primarily weapons-related.

     The Bureau of Export Administration requires an export license for
      otherwise uncontrolled items subject to the Export Administration
     Regulations before allowing shipments to these end users because of
      risk use in or diversion to prohibited proliferation activities.

                       "*" The Regulatory Background:

   The Export Administration Regulations (EAR) provide that the Bureau of
     Export Administration may inform exporters, individually or through
       amendment to the EAR, that a license is required for exports or
       reexports to certain entities. The EAR contains a list of such
                    entities, known as the entities list.
   BXA Home > Entity List
