http://geohazards.cr.usgs.gov/alabama/

   Link to USGS home page


Aftershock Investigation of the October 24, 1997, Earthquake Near Atmore,
Alabama

   We wish to thank Noel Barstow and the rest of IRIS for loaning us four
   PASSCAL recorders and associated sensors.


    *Any use of tradenames is for descriptive purposes only and does not
    imply endorsement by the USGS.

   photo of station in shed; link to larger image
   Starting 22 hours after the mainshock, we deployed an array of portable
   seismographs to record aftershocks of the October 24, 1997, Atmore
   earthquake (mb 4.9) in southern Alabama where there are no local and
   few regional permanent seismograph stations. Initially we installed two
   RefTek* seismographs operating in continuous record mode, four
   Kinemetrics K2 accelerographs operating in triggered mode, and two
   MEQ-800 continuous analog seismographs running at 72 dB to monitor the
   activity. No aftershocks occurred for 62 hours after the mainshock, so
   the first six recording sites were chosen using intensity information
   from interviews of residents in an area near the NEIC preliminary
   location of the mainshock. That array configuration later proved to
   only cover azimuths northwest clockwise through southeast from the
   aftershocks. After we had recorded and located the first aftershocks,
   we installed four more RefTek seismographs sent by IRIS to cover the
   southeast through northwest quadrants. The digital array recorded 25
   aftershocks at two or more stations, 8 at three or more, and 5 at four
   or more. The largest aftershock, a M3.7 event on October 26,1997, had a
   peak acceleration of 0.03 g. We operated an eleven-station array for 42
   days following the mainshock, and a four station array continued to
   monitor the epicentral area for an additional month.

   Hypocenter Determinations

   Events were located using HYPOELLIPSE (Lahr,1997; we are grateful for
   the assistance and advice he gave us) and a simplified version of the
   P-wave velocity structure. S-wave velocities were calculated from the
   P-wave values by estimates of Vp/Vs that ranged from 4.0 at the surface
   with a P-wave velocity of 1.676 km/s to 1.78 at a depth of 1.439 km
   with P-wave velocity of 3.627 km/s.

   Directivity/Radiation-pattern Amplification

   The body-wave accelerations produced by the M3.7 and M2.9 aftershocks
   were an order-of-magnitude larger at station STA than at stations PIN,
   WAD, HUX, and WAD. We initially believed that this discrepancy may have
   been caused by either instrument malfunction or strong site response
   differences. Subsequent records of smaller aftershocks and a huddle
   test of the instruments in question (K2 accelerometers) indicated that
   the instrument responses were comparable and reliable.

   Note that the coda amplitudes, unlike the corresponding body-wave
   amplitudes are very similar from station to station. This suggests that
   the large amplitudes at station STA are caused by directivity and/or
   radiation pattern.

   Additional evidence for directivity being the cause of the large
   amplitude of station STA is the narrow pulse-width of the P-wave at
   that station relative to those of the P-waves of the other stations
   (Note that the pulses of the M2.9 aftershock are more complex than
   those of the M3.7 aftershock).

    Earthquake Response | Earthquake Program | USGS

   Last-Modified: Tue, Jul 17, 2001 4:22 PM
   Maintained by Susan Rhea
   This URL is: http://geohazards.cr.usgs.gov/alabama/index.html
