http://www.skillsnetwork.gov/results.cfm?ID=18

   REFRESH(200 sec): file://localhost/


   Welcome

   Meet
   the Skills
   Network

   Find Your State

   Home

   [logo2.jpg]

   Data Sources

   Measure Results



   The Skills Network emphasizes timely and accurate data to track
   progress. These data sources will help you establish baselines,
   benchmarks, indicators, and comparisons with similar communities to
   help evaluate strategies and track progress.


   21st Century Skills Baseline Data-"The New Economy Index"

   The New Economy Index, formulated by the Progressive Policy Institute,
   measures state and national baseline data measuring 17 indicators of
   economic health in a technology-based economy.

   American's Career InfoNet

   U. S. Department of Labor's site for occupational information. Look
   here for job trends, state profiles, career exploration links, and a
   resource library.

   Annie E. Casey Foundation

   One of the Foundation's main objectives is to provide the best
   available data and analysis on critical issues affecting disadvantaged
   children and families, as well as the knowledge and tools
   practitioners, policymakers, and citizens need to advance their efforts
   on behalf of children. The Foundation's Web site seeks to provide an
   ever-growing and interactive audience with updates on its initiatives,
   the full text of evaluations and reports, and data on the well-being of
   children.

   Baltimore City Data Collaborative

   Building on previous data efforts, the Baltimore City Data
   Collaborative was established in May, 1998 to provide data, analysis,
   and evaluation support for the activities of the Family League of
   Baltimore City and the Baltimore Safe & Sound Campaign, as well as to
   serve as a resource for the city as a whole.

   Bureau of Labor Statistics, U. S. Department of Labor

   Searchable web site on economic and occupational data, including custom
   searches.
   Employment Rates
   Children in Poverty
   Liveable Wages
   Occupational Outlook

   Bureau of Transportation Statistics, U. S. Department of Transportation

   BTS compiles, analyzes, and presents information on the Nation's
   transportation systems.

   Census Publishes Review of 20th Century Changes

   Over the past 100 years: the nation's population nearly quadrupled; the
   number of married women in the workforce increased more than 40 times;
   and more than 10 times as many Americans were 65 and over in 1997 (34
   million) than in 1900 (3 million). The 1999 Statistical Abstract of the
   United States further reports that in 1900, 11 percent of all 14- to
   17-year-olds were enrolled in high school; in 1997, 93 percent were in
   grades 9-12.

   Department of Education Budget

   The U.S. Department of Eductaions estimated budget for fiscal year
   2001.

   E-commerce Information

   Information, statistics, whats reliable and whats not and links to more
   information and reports on e-commerce.

   Educational Resources Information Center (ERIC)

   A federally-funded national information system that provides a variety
   of services and products on a broad range of education-related
   issues.The Educational Resources Information Center (ERIC) is a
   national information system designed to provide ready access to an
   extensive body of education-related literature.

   FedStats

   The Federal Interagency Council on Statistical Policy maintains this
   site for easy access to the full range of statistics and information
   produced by more than 70 federal agencies.

   FirstGov - Official U.S. Government Search Engine

   Welcome to FirstGov - the first-ever government website to provide the
   public with easy, one-stop access to all online U.S. Federal Government
   resources. FirstGov allows users to browse a wealth of information -
   everything from researching at the Library of Congress to tracking a
   NASA mission. It also enables users to conduct important business
   online - such as applying for student loans, tracking Social Security
   benefits, comparing Medicare options and even administering government
   grants and contracts.

   Georgia GIS Data Clearinghouse

   The purpose of the Clearinghouse is to collect, document, format, and
   publish GIS information collected by multiple agencies of Georgia state
   government. A great model!

   Housing and Urban Development Data

   The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development's (HUD's) Office
   of Policy Development and Research (PD&R) supports the Department's
   efforts to help create cohesive, economically healthy communities. PD&R
   is responsible for maintaining current information on housing needs,
   market conditions, and existing programs, as well as conducting
   research on priority housing and community development issues. The
   Office provides reliable and objective data and analysis to help inform
   policy decisions. PD&R is committed to involving a greater diversity of
   perspectives, methods, and researchers in HUD research. In 1978 PD&R
   established HUD USER, an information source for housing and community
   development researchers and policymakers. HUD USER is the primary
   source for Federal Government reports and information on housing policy
   and programs, building technology, economic development, urban
   planning, and other housing-related topics. HUD USER also creates and
   distributes a wide variety of useful information products and services.

   Institute on Education and the Economy

   The Institute on Education and the Economy (IEE) is an
   interdisciplinary policy research center that focuses its attention on
   the interaction between education and the economy. The Institute
   analyzes the relationship between changes in the economy and the need
   to for a fundamental rethinking of our educational system. A new way of
   looking at accountability in our educational system. IEE conducts a
   rigorous program of research and policy analysis and provides
   intellectual leadership on the implications of changes in the economy
   and labor markets for all levels of our education and training systems.

   IT Education Data

   Research education data dealing with IT issues and resources.

   Meta-Indexes for State and Local Government Information

   This site, provided as a resource by the Library of Congress, contains
   links to information from state and local governments.

   Missouri Show Me Results

   Statewide indicators organized in five categories: prosperity,
   education, health, safety and responsible government

   Most Uninsured Children In Families Served by Government Programs

   Three-quarters of low-income children and 60% of all children without
   health insurance live in families that participate in school lunch,
   unemployment or other programs. A reminder of the value of "one stop"
   services.

   National Academy of Public Administration

   Various resources, case studies, reports and other data listed by
   state.

   National Center for Education Statistics

   NCES, a part of the U.S. department of Education, is the primary
   federal entity for collecting and analyzing data that are related to
   education in the United States and other nations.
   Reducing Class Size
   Teacher Vacancies
   High School Graduation Statistics
   College Graduation Statictics
   Reading Achievement Scores
   Child Well Being Statictics
   Children's Access to Technology and the Internet

   New Horizons in Adult Education

   New Horizons in Adult Education, founded in 1987, is an electronic
   journal focused on current research and ideas in adult education. It is
   a refereed journal, published two or three times each year, which
   provides graduate students, faculty, researchers, and adult education
   practitioners with a means for publishing their current thinking and
   research within adult education and related fields.

   Polio Eradication

   The eradication of polio is a data-driven strategy that emphasizes
   community-based leadership and measurement. This report summarizes
   successful strategies and use of specific indicators to track progress.

   Stateline.org / Education

   Discusses education in all 50 states. Such topics include, high
   accountability standards, per pupil spending, top state priorities and
   also gives the user the ability to compare states against one anther
   using education data.

   The New Federalism

   A multi-year Urban Institute research project to analyze the transition
   of social programs from the federal government to the states. Focus
   includes health care, income security, job training, and social
   services.

   THOMAS: Legislative Information on the Internet

   National legislative information on the Internet from the Library of
   Congress.

   Tools for Community Design and Decision-Making

   The U.S. Department of Energy has compiled a list of computer-based and
   non-technical visioning, design, and planning tools that can aid
   community groups in planning healthy sustainable communities. The Tools
   Matrix is comprised of technical and non-technical tools such as
   Geographic Information System (GIS) programs, predictive models, impact
   analysis programs, community visioning programs, interactive Internet
   community networks, information resources, and group consensus building
   tools.

   U.S. Bureau of the Census

   Information, data, research, mapping and more provided by the US Census
   Bureau.
   American FactFinder
   Customized Demographic and Economic Data
   State and Metropolitan Area Data Book

   U.S. Bureau of the Census

   Information, data, research, mapping and more provided by the US Census
   Bureau.

   Welfare Information Network

   This clearinghouse site posts a wide variety of data including rural
   issues, evaluation strategies, events and publications.

   Women and the IT Revolution

   This website outlines a two year study on the role of Women in the IT
   profession and education system and recommends strategies at curbing
   the IT gender disparity.

   Text Only | Admin | Talk With Us | Privacy Statement | Home
