http://nces.ed.gov/help/

   National Center for Education Statistics NCES Help Home [road.jpg]
   [left.jpg] Who Is NCES? Where Can I Find... ? What About Technical
   Issues? How Do I Order NCES Products? Have Any Questions? Need More
   Help? [bottom.jpg] NCES Site Map [sitemapright.jpg]

                               NCES Help Pages


   Who is NCES?
   General introductory notes, including our organizational structure.
   Where Can I Find?
   Quick tips for effective searching.
   What About Technical Issues?
   Browsers, resolution, start-up page, PDF, downloads, and more. How Do I
   Order Products?
   Ordering information and logistics.
   Have Any Questions?
   FAQs with their answers and commonly used acronyms. Need More Help?
   Click above to send e-mail to the NCES webmaster.

   Red Bullet NCES Privacy & Security Policy
       Red Bullet NCES Statistical Standards
       Red Bullet Contacting NCES:

   National Center for Education Statistics
       Office of Educational Research & Improvement
       1990 K Street,
       NW                                                Click here for a
       map
       Washington, DC 20006, USA
       Telephone: (202) 502-7300
       Fax: (202) 502-7466

   Red Bullet Permission to Replicate Information
   Unless specifically stated otherwise, all information on the U.S.
       Department of Education's NCES website at http://nces.ed.gov is in
       the public domain, and may be reproduced, published or otherwise
       used without NCES' permission. This statement does not pertain to
       information at web sites other than http://nces.ed.gov, whether
       funded by or linked to, from NCES or not.
       Please use the following citation when referencing NCES products
       and publications:
       National Center for Education Statistics, U.S. Department of
       Education.

   Red Bullet NCES Product Disclaimer
   Reference herein to any specific commercial products, process, or
       service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does
       not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement,
       recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government.

    left NCES Home US Department of Education Home Search NCES NCES
    Electronic Catalog Survey and Program Areas NCES Help NCES News Flash
    Subscription Service E-mail NCES WebMaster NCES Site Map right
