http://www.grc.nasa.gov/Doc/grcweb.htm

   Header image featuring NASA Glenn hangar
   Navigational Menu

                       Welcome to the NASA Glenn Web Site

   Welcome to the NASA Glenn Research Center. Since 1941, we have been
   pioneers and innovators who have expanded horizons and opened frontiers
   for our explorers in air and space. Our Center defines and develops
   propulsion, electrical power, and communications technologies for
   NASA's aeronautics and space missions.

   Please Note: Public access to some of our web sites is temporarily
   limited. We apologize for any inconvenience.
   On the upper left side of the Glenn Homepage are a series of links
   which provide ready access to news and informational items of interest
   various groups of visitors:

        News
                Here you will find items of current interest including
                Glenn contributions to major space flight missions.

        General Info
                This short document provides some brief background
                information on the NASA Glenn Research Center including
                its history. It includes links to other helpful resources
                about Glenn's mission and programs.

        Education
                NASA Glenn is a recognized leader in innovative
                educational programs which use students' interest in air
                and space programs to encourage them to excel in science
                and math. We provide valuable resources to assist teachers
                in this area.

        Opportunities
                NASA is an investment in America's future. In order to
                help make that a reality for you and your business, we
                provide the a variety of links to help you identify and
                access opportunities at the NASA Glenn Research Center.

        Visitor Center
                If you would like to visit the Center in person,
                information about our Visitor Center is available.

        FAQ/Feedback
                If this is your first visit to Glenn via the Internet or
                have any comments you wish to make, please use this form.
                If you have a question, we recommend that you first check
                our "Frequently Asked Questions" (FAQ), then submit any
                unanswered questions.

   On the lower right of the Glenn Homepage are a series of indexes to
   help you quickly access the information you are looking for:

        Subject
                In the Glenn Subject Area page you will find Glenn
                information sources organized according to subject area.
                We welcome comments for any additions. Please address
                comments and suggestions to <subject@grc.nasa.gov>

        Organization
                This link provides a listing of all formal organizational
                entities with links to organizational home pages where
                they exist. It also provides an alphabetical listing of
                Glenn organizational entities offering information via the
                Web.

        Projects
                This area includes a listing of significant Agency,
                Inter-agency, and Glenn-specific projects in which NASA
                Glenn leads or participates.

        Facilities
                NASA Glenn comprises over 150 buildings on a 350-acre main
                campus, adjacent to Cleveland Hopkins International
                Airport. Access an index of facilities or take a digital
                tour of our world-class facilities via the Glenn Research
                Center Interactive Map.

        Information Resource
                This area includes a variety of focused information
                resources available to varying sets of the Internet
                community.

        People
                Access an on-line directory and view biographies of key
                personnel.

        Search
                Conduct a search query of the entire NASA Glenn web
                hierarchy.

   Near the bottom of the page are several handy links:

        About GRC Web
                This is the page that you are currently viewing.

        Freedom of Information Act
                The Freedom of Information Act provides the public and
                industry a means of acquiring information about Federal
                Government activities. This page is the starting point for
                such inquiries.

        Privacy Statement
                A statement of our policy that establishes how NASA will
                use information we gather about you from your visit to our
                website. The privacy of our customers is of utmost
                importance to NASA.

        Accessibility Statement
                These Web pages have been reviewed to be accessible to
                individuals with disabilities in accordance with
                provisions of Section 508 of the Workforce Investment Act
                and the Rehabilitation Act.

        NASA Home Page
                The NASA Glenn Research Center, located in Cleveland Ohio,
                is one of ten NASA Centers located nationwide. Clicking on
                the image of the NASA Insignia takes you back to the
                primary Agency web site from which you can access all of
                the other centers and program.

   Comments and/or requests for inclusion in any of the above areas by
   members of the Glenn community may be addressed to
   webmaster@grc.nasa.gov

                                    Line

                                [ GRC Icon ]

                                    Line

   Responsible Official: David M. DeFelice, Community and Media Relations
                                   Office
                  Web Site Curator: webmaster@grc.nasa.gov

                Last updated on Thursday, 06-Dec-01 10:09:23
