http://www.rurdev.usda.gov/rd/index.html

   Your browser isn't running scripts. There are scripts on this page that
   perform mouse-over effects to emphasize the selection of text graphics
   from the navigation bar. The mouse-overs turn the graphics from navy
   blue to bright green. However, the page also contains text descriptions
   of these menu items.

   Skip navigation bars U S D A Rural Development Online Logo: Link to
   Home Page

   Go to text version
   About us: link to information about our programs and services
   Link to business and cooperative program information Link to housing
   and community facilities program information Link to utility program
   information
   Link to information about community development and empowerment Link to
   field office locations Link to news and information Link to
   publications Link to regulations

    About Us

   Available Funds
   Document Accessibility
   Field Offices
   Freedom of Information Act
   Internet Resources
   Job Opportunities
   Mission Statement
   National Rural Development Partnership
   News and Information
   Office of the Under Secretary
   Rural Development Programs
   Strategic Plans
   Success Stories
   Women in Agriculture

   Welcome to USDA Rural Development. Rural Development is committed to
   helping improve the economy and quality of life in all of rural
   America. Through our programs, we touch rural America in many ways.

   Our financial programs support such essential public facilities and
   services as water and sewer systems, housing, health clinics, emergency
   service facilities and electric and telephone service. We promote
   economic development by supporting loans to businesses through banks
   and community-managed lending pools. We offer technical assistance and
   information to help agricultural and other cooperatives get started and
   improve the effectiveness of their member services. And we provide
   technical assistance to help communities undertake community
   empowerment programs.


   Picture of rural community being developed. Scene shows construction of
   housing, new businesses, and expansion of the infrastructure.

   Search  |  Site Index  |  Send Questions/Comments
   Contact Us About Web Accessibility  |  Accessibility Statement

   Rural Development is within the U.S. Department of Agriculture and
   administers Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service,
   Rural Utilities Service, and Office of Community Development programs.
   U S D A Logo: Link to U S D A Home Page
