http://www.sustainable.doe.gov/greendev/gdintro.shtml


                          EREN Department of Energy
   Text Only | Español
   Center of Excellence for Sustainable Development
   Welcome Contact Us Site Index Newsletter


   Green Development
   Introduction
   Benefits & Basic Elements
   Guiding Principles
   Programs / Rating Systems
   Financing
   Tools
   Success Stories
   Codes / Ordinances
   Articles / Publications
   Other Resources
   Green Development Introduction

   Can a housing development project be concerned with environmental and
   social issues and still be profitable? Yes, argues the Rocky Mountain
   Institute in "Doing Well by Doing Good: The Benefits of Green
   Development." RMI’s work counters some of the widely held
   misconceptions among developers about the financial viability of going
   green in real estate development:

   Many developers fear that following a green agenda will delay project
   schedules and raise costs....The reality, however, is that
   well-executed green development projects…perform extremely well
   financially. In fact, even though many of the leading-edge developers …
   have strong environmental backgrounds and ideals, the financial rewards
   of green development are now bringing mainstream developers into the
   fold at an increasing pace. It is possible --indeed it is the norm--to
   do well financially by doing the right thing environmentally. For
   example, project costs can be reduced, buyers or renters will spend
   less to operate green buildings, and developers can differentiate
   themselves from the crowd--getting a big marketing boost.

   Some of the general benefits of green development, then, are reduced
   capital costs, reduced operating costs, health and productivity
   benefits, higher perceived value and quality, staying ahead of
   regulations, as the satisfaction of doing the right thing.

   In order for a housing development to have a sustainable approach,
   whether a planned development or traditional neighborhood development
   (TND) or New Urbanist project, the developer/planner must consider land
   use, site planning, and building design in a sustainable manner, and
   consider land-use issues as paramount in the overall planning process.
   For this reason, it is difficult to find examples of subdivisions that
   are sustainable. If the developer of a subdivision or housing
   development wishes to incorporate sustainability into the project
   design, he or she most likely will consider some form of planned
   community, or form of development which considers the land-use aspect
   in a more environmentally sound manner.

   Subdivisions are the development form most closely associated with
   sprawl, a negative land-use pattern that consumes inordinate amounts of
   land and resources and is now becoming recognized as a major threat to
   quality of life in America and other developed countries.

   This section is meant to provide resources covering many aspects of a
   green approach--from the numerous benefits, to guidelines, programs,
   articles and relevant publications--all geared toward those interested
   and involved in developing projects, including real estate
   professionals, developers, architects, planners, researchers and
   others. It also provides case studies, with emphasis on housing
   developments, including single-family homes and master-planned
   developments of various forms and scale.

   For additional background information, see the CESD sections on Land
   Use Planning and Green Buildings.
   Back to Top



                            HOME | EREN | SEARCH
