http://ee.id.doe.gov/state/stateres.htm

   [USEMAP:strip1.jpg]

   Hydropower Home
   [banner7.jpg]
   [swash1.jpg]


 U.S. Hydropower Resource Assessment Final Report (PDF) Access
                                                        Individual State Reports

   Beginnings

   In June 1989, DOE held public hearings to support the expanding demand
   for energy in the United States. The purpose was to begin determining
   the undeveloped potential hydropower resources. As a result of the
   meetings, and through partial analysis of the database of undeveloped
   resources by industry groups, DOE discovered that the data on potential
   hydropower included redundancies and errors which reduced confidence in
   the published estimates of the developable hydropower potential. As a
   result, DOE established an interagency hydropower resource assessment
   team to determine the resource. The team completed a preliminary
   assessment of potential hydropower resources in February 1990. DOE has
   continued these resource assessment activities to develop a basis for
   correcting these deficiencies. The goal is to assemble a resource
   database of all potential hydropower sites in the United States for use
   as a planning tool to determine the viable national hydropower
   potential.

   Computer Software Aids Hydropower Assessment [back to top]

   To assess the hydropower potential in any area of the United States
   from a national perspective, a uniform set of criteria was developed
   and a probability factor computer model, called Hydropower Evaluation
   Software (HES), was designed to standardize the assessment. HES offers
   the PC user the ability to factor in environmental attributes of a
   hydropower site to calculate a relative development suitability factor
   for a project.

   These environmental attributes include whether a site has Wild and
   Scenic Protection or is on a tributary of a site with such protection,
   and other cultural, fishery, geologic, historic, recreational, or
   scenic attributes. The presence of threatened or endangered fish or
   wildlife influences the suitability factor. Other attributes include
   the potential project's location, including whether the site is within
   a national park, national grassland, national wildlife refuge, or
   another federal land. A combination of attributes results in a lower
   suitability factor because multiple environmental considerations reduce
   the likelihood that a site may be developed to its physical potential.
   Several sources of information are used to assign attributes, including
   the Nationwide Rivers Inventory, maintained by the U.S. Department of
   the Interior.

   The HES was developed as a tool for regional or state agencies to
   obtain regional or state totals and is not intended to provide
   definitive potential development factors for individual sites. Further,
   because the software was developed as a generic measurement tool
   encompassing national issues, the use of regional and state totals must
   be conducted judiciously; various local issues may skew hydropower
   potential totals. Employing HES as a national measurement tool will
   smooth any local anomalies.

   Status of the Project to Assess Hydropower Potential [back to top]

   The resource assessment has been completed for 49 states (no report was
   generated for Delaware because of scarce resources). You may obtain a
   copy of the final summary report by clicking here (PDF). The completed
   work has identified 5,677 sites in the United States with undeveloped
   capacity of about 30,000 MW. You may view an individual state report by
   clicking on the United States map below.

   [USEMAP:getacro.gif] free.

   U.S. Map keyed to Hydropower Resource Assessment Reports [back to top]
   Important Note: The State Resource Assessment Reports reflect the data
   and resources that were available at the time the report was generated.
   These resources may have changed since then due to changes in laws, new
   hydropower development, and the impact of deregulation. Please contact
   the state resource person named in the report for current information.

   1. Click on a state with an active link. This will take you to a page
   listing the report and its appendices.
   2. Select and view the associated report or its appendices.

   Notes: (1) some paper versions of these reports had photos. These have
   been deleted to improve the speed of downloading. (2) The main (front)
   part of each report is in PDF format. The appendices are in HTML format
   to allow searching for data. Appendix A summarizes the hydropower
   capacity for each state. Appendix B lists the hydropower capacity
   alphabetically by River Basin, with the stream name/plant name arranged
   alphabetically under each river basin. Appendix C lists these sites
   numerically by FERC number, and Appendix D provides a page on each
   site, listing all the environmental factors, kW capacity, location,
   owner's name, etc. It is also organized by FERC number.
   (3) To allow better viewing of the appendices, disable some of the
   button bars and change the screen fonts to 11 pt or 10 pt. In Netscape,
   choose Options, General Preferences, Fonts, and for the proportional
   font choose Times New Roman 11pt. Choose similar options in Internet
   Explorer. Changes like these will allow you to view the whole page in
   Appendix D without scrolling.

                               [USEMAP:us3.jpg]


                              [USEMAP:akhi.jpg]

     [button7.jpg]


    [swash1.jpg]


    Copyright U.S. DOE Hydropower Program, 1999 - Last updated October
    2001

   Information sources:
   Rinehart et al., DOE Hydropower Program Biennial Report, DOE/ID-10510,
          June 1997.

   Hydropower: Partnership with the Environment brochure, 01-GA50627, June
          2001.


    Information Owners: Peggy Brookshier and Garold Sommers)

                        Back to Top | Hydropower Home

   [swash1.jpg]
