http://bfrl.nist.gov/info/standards_activities.htm

   . . . . . . . . . . .
   Research Areas . Link to NIST .
   .
   Link to Home Link to Research Areas Link to BFRL Publications Link to
   BFRL Software Link to BFRL Staff Information Link to Contact
   Information Link to Ask the Experts Section .

Building and Fire Research Laboratory

                              Standards Activities
       _______________________________________________________________

                                                                On this page:


       * ACI
       * AISC
       * ASCE
       * ASHRAE
       * ASTM
       * SRMs
       * CIB

                 * ICC
                 * ISO
                 * PIEBASE
                 * NES
                 * NFPA
                 * RILEM

     Through active participation and leadership in many Standards
     Development Organizations, BFRL staff contribute significant time
     and technical expertise to the process of developing national and
     international standards.

  ACI
  American Concrete Institute

     The ACI Building Code Committee

     Dr. H.S. Lew, Senior Research Engineer, serves on the American
     Concrete Institute Committee 318, which is responsible for
     developing the ACI Building Code Requirements for Structural
     Concrete. Dr. Lew introduced new curing provisions for concrete
     based partly on the Structures Divisions on-going research led by
     Dr. Nicholas J. Carino that addresses curing requirements for
     durability and strength.

     ACI Specifications Committee

     Dr. Nicholas J. Carino was recently appointed Chairman of the ACI
     Specifications Committee, which is responsible for coordinating the
     standard specifications issued by ACI and maintaining the
     Specification Manual covering the standard format of ACI
     specifications.

     ACI Committee 440

     Dr. Dat Duthinh, Research Structural Engineer in the Structures
     Division, plays an active role in American Concrete Institutes
     Committee 440 that produced the "Guide for the Design and
     Construction of Concrete Reinforced with FRP Bars." The guide was
     approved recently by ACIs Technical Activities Committee. The
     construction industry is awaiting the guide as an important
     milestone toward the more widespread use of composites in
     infrastructure.

     ACIs Technical Activities Committee

     Dr. Geoff Frohnsdorff was appointed chairman of the Committee on
     High-Performance Concrete of the American Concrete Institutes
     Technical Activities Committee. He also chairs an ad hoc task group
     of three ACI committees  Hydraulic Cements, Knowledge-Based Systems
     and Mathematical Modeling of Materials, and Materials Science -- to
     oversee a cooperative
     pilot activity in the development of an interoperable guide to
     selection and use of cements.

     Two parts of the standard, Buildings and Other Constructed Assets:
     Service Life Planning, being drafted in Subcommittee SC14 on Design
     Life in ISO Technical Committee TC59 have achieved FDIS (Final Draft
     International Standard) status. The subcommittee is chaired by Dr.
     Geoff Frohnsdorff. The two parts are Part 1, General Principles, and
     Part 2, Service Life Prediction Procedures. It is expected that Part
     3, Performance Audits and Reviews, will become an FDIS before the
     end of 2001.

     ACI-TMS technical committee 216, Fire Resistance and Fire Protection
     of Structures

     Dr. Long Phan, Research Structural Engineer in the Structures
     Division, was named chairman of the joint ACI-TMS technical
     committee 216, Fire Resistance and Fire Protection of Structures.
     The committee produced "Standard Method for Determining Fire
     Resistance of Concrete and Masonry Construction Assemblies" (ACI
     216.1R-97).

  AISC
  American Institute of Steel Construction

     AISC Committee on Specifications

     Dr. John L. Gross, leader, Structural Systems and Design Group of
     the Structures Division, was appointed to serve on the American
     Institute of Steel Construction Committee on Specifications. The
     Committee on Specifications is responsible for developing
     requirements for the design, fabrication, and erection of steel
     buildings.


  ASCE
  American Society of Civil Engineers

     SEI/ASCEs Executive Committee on Codes and Standards

     Dr. H. S. Lew is serving on the SEI/ASCEs Executive Committee on
     Codes and Standards, worked closely with standards committees that
     develop standards for seismic evaluation and rehabilitation of
     buildings, and for the testing and evaluation of seismic isolation
     systems and components. The latter standard is based on the work
     carried out by the Structures Division.

     ASCE Committee ASCE-7

     Dr. Emil Simiu, NIST Fellow, is a member of the American Society of
     Civil Engineers Committee on Minimum Design Loads for Buildings and
     Other Structures (ASCE-7). The three standards just listed are among
     the most important standards used by practicing structural
     engineers.

     Condition Assessment of Existing Buildings

     Mr. James Pielert chairs the American Society of Civil Engineers
     (ASCE) Standards Committee on Condition Assessment of Existing
     Buildings which recently published two new standards; SEI/ASCE 11-99
     "Guideline for Structural Condition Assessment of Existing
     Buildings" and SEI/ASCE 30-00 "Guideline for Condition Assessment of
     the Building Envelope."


  ASHRAE
  American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air Conditioning Engineers,
  Inc.

     ASHRAE Standard 62 Ventilation for Acceptable Indoor Air Quality

     Dr. Andrew Persily, leader of the Indoor Air Quality and Ventilation
     Group, chairs the committee responsible for revising ASHRAE Standard
     62 Ventilation for Acceptable Indoor Air Quality. This committee is
     converting the current version of the standard into code-language
     suitable for adoption by code bodies and is updating the technical
     content of the document. This standard contains HVAC system and
     building design and operation requirements for providing acceptable
     indoor environments. The committees work has focused on system
     design requirements and calculation methods for determining design
     ventilation rates. The efforts of the committee have led to the
     publication of the first revision of the standard in 10 years,
     Standard 62-1999. This new version of the standard contains
     information relating ventilation to indoor carbon dioxide levels
     that is based upon BFRL research.

     ASHRAE 135.1P, "Method of Test for Conformance to BACnet."

     Mr. Steven T. Bushby, leader, Mechanical Systems and Controls Group
     in the Building Environment Division, was the principal author of a
     draft standard, ASHRAE 135.1P, "Method of Test for Conformance to
     BACnet." This proposed standard defines detailed testing procedures
     for verifying that control products correctly implement the BACnet
     communication protocol.

     Although still in the pubic review process, 135.1P has already been
     adopted by the newly created BACnet Manufacturers Association and
     the BACnet Interest Group- Europe (BIG-EU) as the basis for testing
     and listing programs in the United States and Europe.

     Mr. Bushby is Chairman of ASHRAE Standing Standard Project Committee
     135 (SSPC 135) that maintains the BACnet communication protocol
     standard for building automation and control systems. Three other
     new additions to the BACnet standard were developed in cooperation
     with industry. Addendum c contains new features to meet the special
     communication needs of life safety systems. Addendum d defines a
     concept called BACnet Interoperability Building Blocks (BIBBs) used
     to make it easier to specify BACnet systems. Addendum e provides an
     interoperable mechanism for manufacturers or other organizations to
     extend the capabilities of BACnet and publish the extensions for
     others to use.

     BACnet was recently translated into Chinese, Japanese, and Korean.
     It has been adopted as a Korean national standard, a European
     Community prestandard, and has been proposed as an ISO standard.


  ASTM
  ASTM E-5 Committee on Fire Standards

     Mr. James R. Lawson, general physical scientist, Fire Fighting
     Technology Group, is a voting member of the ASTM E-5 Committee on
     Fire Standards and the NFPA Fire Test Technical Committee. These
     committees develop fire standards for building construction,
     transportation, and furnishings. These fire standards are used by
     the building codes and other regulating authorities throughout North
     America. In addition Mr. Lawson is a voting member (Mr. Robert
     Vettori alternate) of the ASTM F-23 Committee on Protective
     Clothing, NFPA Committee for the Standard on Protective Ensemble for
     Structural Fire Fighting, and the NFPA Committee on Special
     Operations Protective Clothing and Equipment. These technical
     committees develop standards for protective clothing and equipment
     used by the fire service in North America. Fire standards and
     protective clothing and equipment standards are under constant
     development and revision as new knowledge and technology becomes
     available.

     ASTM C 42

     Dr. Nicholas J. Carino, leader, Structural Evaluation and Standards
     Group, of the Structures Division is writing draft revisions to ASTM
     C 42 (Test Method for Obtaining and Testing Drilled Cores and Sawed
     Beams of Concrete) to take into account new research findings on the
     effects of moisture conditioning before testing cores for strength.
     He is also working on a revision of ASTM C 900 (Test Method for
     Pullout Strength of Hardened Concrete) that would enhance the
     procedure for calibrating test instruments.

     ASTM Subcommittee E06.66 on Performance Standards for Dwellings

     Dr. Rossiter is chairman, pro tem, of ASTM Subcommittee E06.66 on
     Performance Standards for Dwellings. He is also chairman of the
     E06.66 Task Group on Durability, which recently completed a draft
     standard entitled, "Guide for Specifying and Evaluating Performance
     of Single Family Attached and Detached Dwellings Durability." The
     standard is expected to be issued by ASTM in the spring of 2001.

     ASTM C-16

     Mr. Robert R. Zarr, mechanical engineer in the Building Environment
     Division, is the task group chair of a new standard activity
     covering the development of database formats for thermal
     transmission data obtained by ASTM C-16 standard test methods. Mr.
     Zarr has also prepared a precision and bias guideline for the C-16
     Committee on Thermal Insulation. The precision and bias checklist
     was approved by the membership in 2000 and is now required for
     submission of all C-16 standards.

     ASTM Standing Committee on Publications

     Dr. Mary McKnight was appointed to the ASTM Standing Committee on
     Publications for a three-year term. The Committee advises the
     Society's Board of Directors on the formulation of publications
     policy and administers the Society's publications program, except
     for the Annual Book of ASTM Standards.

     ASTM Building Economics Subcommittee, E06.81

     Dr. Harold E. Marshall, Chief, Office of Applied Economics, has been
     the sole chairman of ASTMs Building Economics Subcommittee, E06.81,
     since its inception in 1979. He has played major authorship,
     educational, and leadership roles in writing and shepherding
     successfully 16 standards and two software products through the ASTM
     standardization process. His recent efforts are focused on a
     standard elemental building classification called UNIFORMAT II.
     Based on two NISTIRs co-authored by Dr. Marshall, the ASTM standard
     classification provides the building community a common elemental
     classification for the description, economic analysis, and
     management of buildings over their life cycle. UNIFORMAT II is
     helping owners, project managers, designers, builders, and facility
     managers construct and manage their buildings more cost effectively.
     Other building economics standards based on research of Dr. Marshall
     and his OAE staff include methods for measuring and evaluating
     life-cycle costs, net benefits or savings, and adjusted internal
     rates of return.

     ASTM subcommittees E06.81 on Building Economics, and E06.66 on
     Performance Standards for Dwellings

     Dr. Robert Chapman, Senior Researcher, Office of Applied Economics,
     works productively in two ASTM subcommitteesE06.81 on Building
     Economics, and E06.66 on Performance Standards for Dwellings. He
     serves as secretary to E06.81 and chairs the task group on economic
     techniques. He was the lead author on Users Guide to AHP/Expert
     Choice for ASTM Building Evaluation, a companion document to ASTM
     software that helps users evaluate construction alternatives where
     they seek to maximize multiple objectives. Dr. Chapman is also
     writing the economics attribute standard that ties together the
     E06.66 family of standards that define total building performance.

  Thermal Insulation Standard Reference Materials (SRMs)

     The Building Environment Division and NISTs Statistical Engineering
     Division have recently completed a four-year effort to assess the
     measurement variability among test results of different
     guarded-hot-plate apparatus located in national standards
     laboratories in Canada, France, Japan, and the United States. A
     recent ASTM workshop on thermal insulation SRMs identified the
     transferal of national reference materials and their acceptance
     across international boundaries as a potential obstacle to global
     commerce. As a result, NIST and several national standards
     laboratories have been motivated to develop a technical exchange of
     information by conducting international comparisons.

     The test program prepared by NIST required the evaluation of four
     national reference materials using a two-part experimental plan: 1)
     five independent replicate measurements taken at fixed temperature
     (297.15 K); and, single-point measurements taken at multiple
     temperatures (280 K to 320 K). For the comparison, NIST provided two
     reference materials and the European Commission Institute for
     Reference Materials and Measurements and the Japan Testing Center
     for Construction Materials each provided one. In accordance with
     either ASTM Test Method C177 or ISO 8302, a test data were record on
     official test forms and reported to NIST for subsequent analysis.
     This study was organized in 1997; material characterization
     completed in 1998; participant measurements completed in 1999; and
     resulting data analyzed in 2000.

     A preliminary report on the findings has been prepared and a
     detailed report will be completed in fiscal year 2001, pending
     approval by the participants. A major finding of the replicate
     analysis was the existence of a laboratory-material interaction. In
     other works, there were laboratory-to-laboratory changes in both
     location and variation, which changed from material to material.
     Further analyses attempted to determine the sources (i.e.,
     underlying causes for the variation in the replicate data.)
     Secondary laboratory factors were investigated following a
     cause-and-effect chart, and collectively using a graphical analysis,
     correlation analysis and analysis of variance. The major finding of
     the multi-temperature (280 K to 320 K) analysis confirmed and
     supported the laboratory-material interaction as found in the
     fixed-temperature replicate data analysis.


  CIB
  International Council for Research and Innovation in Building and Construction

     CIB W14 Fire

     Mr. Richard Bukowski, Senior Engineer, Fire Research Division, has
     recently been appointed as chair of CIB Working Commission 14 on
     Fire. The oldest working commission in existence W14 has a long
     history of making major contributions to the fire science and
     engineering fields.

     CIB TG37 Performance-Based Buildings

     Mr. Richard Bukowski Senior Engineer, Fire Research Division,
     participates in CIB TG37 that is developing infrastructure and
     policy in support of performance regulatory systems,
     internationally. TG37 is closely linked to the Interjurisdictional
     Regulatory Collaboration Committee (IRCC) that is made up of the
     chief building code official for each member country and work to
     share common experiences and problems in the operation of
     performance regulatory systems.


  ICC
  International Code Council

     ICC Performance Committee

     Mr. Richard Bukowski completed a three-year assignment to the ICC
     Performance Building Code and ICC Performance Fire Code drafting
     committees. These two committees eventually merged and produced the
     ICC Performance Code for Buildings and Facilities, the first,
     combined US building and fire code and its first performance-based
     code. This document has entered into the ICC Code Development
     process where it is open to code change proposals prior to formal
     adoption. Mr. Bukowski has been named to the ICC Performance Code
     development committee who are responsible for accepting or rejecting
     these proposed changes.


  ISO
  International Standards Organization

     ISO TAG8

     Mr. Richard Bukowski was appointed US representative to ISO TAG8 by
     ANSI who provide the US Secretariat. TAG8 is a technical advisory
     group to the Technical Management Board (TMB) of the International
     Organization for Standardization (ISO) who develop ISO standards. A
     current activity is the development of an ISO policy on performance
     standards.

     ISO TC92: Fire Safety

     The Fire Research Division has several participants in TC92. Dr.
     Richard Gann Chairs SC3 Fire Threat to People and the Environment
     and participates in the Technical Program Management Group. Dr.
     Walter Jones participates in SC4 Fire Safety Engineering.

     ISO TC184: Industrial Automation Systems and Integration

     Mr. Mark Palmer participates in ISO TC184 (Industrial Automation
     Systems and Integration) / SC4 (Industrial Data) and leads the
     development of ISO 10303 applications protocols for the process
     plant industries. IN collaboration with the industrial consortium
     PlantSTEP, BFRL developed and demonstrated the first ISO 10303
     application protocol (AP 227) for exchanging CAD/CAE information for
     process plants.

     BFRL, in collaboration with PlantSTEP; engineering, construction and
     shipbuilding companies; and the U.S. Naval Sea System Command, is
     developing extensions to AP 227 to support HVAC design and
     installation, piping fabrication and inspection, and cableway design
     and installation.

     ISO TC 205 WG 3: Building Control System Design

     Mr. Steven Bushby, electronics engineer, is convener of ISO TC 205
     WG 3 Building Control System Design. The Working group is developing
     a multi-part international standard that addresses several issues
     related to building control systems including control system
     functionality, communication protocols, system specifications and
     project management. ANSI/ASHRAE Standard 135-1995 was adopted as the
     committee draft (CD) for the communication protocol portion of this
     standard.

     ISO TC 86: Refrigeration and Air-conditioning

     ISOs Technical Committee (TC) 86, Refrigeration and Air-conditioning
     is composed of eight sub-committees that address topics such as
     terms and definitions, safety, and testing and rating methods for
     refrigeration and space-conditioning equipment. Brian Dougherty
     participates as a member of the U.S. Technical Advisory Group for
     ISO TC 86. BFRL also is represented on WG1 and WG5, within
     Subcommittee (SC) 6, factory-made air-conditioning and heat pump
     units. WG1 is working to revise testing and rating standards that
     apply to unitary air-conditioners and heat pumps. WG5 is developing
     testing and rating standards that cover three categories of
     multi-split air-conditioners and heat pumps.


  PIEBASE

     PIEBASE is an international umbrella organization for process and
     construction industry consortia active in the development of ISO
     STEP (Standard for The Exchange of Product model data) application
     protocols and other international standards for exchanging and
     sharing industrial data. Mr. Mark Palmer, research engineer,
     participates in the PIEBASE Working Group. PIEBASE coordinates in
     the standards development programs of the participating consortia
     and provides a forum for international collaboration on developing
     and using information technology standards for the benefit of the
     global process industries.


  NES
  National Evaluation Service

     Building Innovation Center of the NES

     Dr. Rossiter drafted a protocol for evaluating the durability of
     innovative building materials and components for the Building
     Innovation Center of the National Evaluation Service, which serves
     two of the US model code organizations.


  NFPA
  National Fire Protection Association

     NFPA Standards Council

     Mr. Richard Bukowski, Senior Engineer and Coordinator of Standards
     and Codes for BFRL was appointed to the NFPA Standards Council by
     the NFPA Board of Directors in January 2000. The Standards Council
     is the body that administers the NFPA Codes and Standards system
     including making all committee appointments, initiating and
     terminating standards projects and issuing all documents. This is an
     especially important time for the Standards Council in administering
     the development of the NFPA Building Code and related Codes through
     strategic partnerships. Appointments to the thirteen-member Council
     run for two, three year terms.

     NFPA Toxicity Advisory Committee

     Dr. Richard Gann, Senior Scientist, Fire Research Division, chairs
     the NFPA Toxicity Advisory Committee. This committee brings special
     expertise on combustion toxicity to advise any other NFPA technical
     committee on toxicity issues that might be part of any proposal
     under consideration.

     NFPA 921 committee, Guide for Fire and Explosion Investigations

     Mr. Anthony Putorti Jr., fire protection engineer, Fire Research
     Division, is a member of the NFPA 921 committee, Guide for Fire and
     Explosion Investigations. This committee provides guidance to
     investigation professionals based on scientifically defensible
     materials and referenceable technical data. NIST utilizes its
     research expertise to provide the latest technical and scientific
     research information to the committee. At the current time, NIST is
     studying the formation of fire burn patterns, which is one of the
     tools used by investigators to determine the origins and causes of
     fires and explosions. The burn pattern research is supported by the
     National Institute of Justice via the NIST Office of Law Enforcement
     Standards and from the United States Fire Administration.

     NFPA Safety to Life Correlating Committee

     Mr. Richard Bukowski is a member of the Technical Correlating
     Committee (TCC) for the Safety to Life Project. The TCC provides
     oversight to the technical committees developing requirements for
     individual topics and assures that the requirements are consistent
     and correlated throughout the document.

     NFPA National Fire Alarm Code Technical Correlating Committee

     Mr. Richard Bukowski serves on the TCC for the National Fire Alarm
     Code. Like other TCCs this committee addresses technical consistency
     and correlation among the technical committees responsible for
     specific parts of the Code.

     NFPA Automatic Sprinkler Committees

     Mr. Daniel Madrzykowski P.E., fire protection engineer, Fire
     Research Division, is a chair of the National Fire Protection
     Association (NFPA) Technical Committee on Residential Sprinkler
     Systems. This committee is responsible for developing the standard
     on the design and installation of sprinklers in one and two family
     dwellings and in residential occupancies up to four stories in
     height. In addition, Mr. Madrzykowski serves on the Technical
     Correlating Committee on Automatic Sprinklers, leading the New
     Technology Task Group and is the NIST alternate on the NFPA
     Technical Committee on Sprinkler System Discharge. Mr. Madrzykowski
     revised the residential sprinkler section in the NFPA Automatic
     Sprinkler Systems Handbook, 8^th ed.

     NFPA Urban/Wildland Interface Committee

     Mr. Madrzykowski also is a member of the NFPA Technical Committees
     on Forest and Rural Fire Protection and has contributed to the
     standards and guides on Application of Class A foam in Structural
     Fire Fighting and Fire-Fighting Chemicals for Class A Fuels. Mr.
     Madrzykowski also serves as NISTs principal member on the Water Mist
     Fire Protection Systems Technical Committee.

     NFPA/ASTM Rail Transportation

     Mr. Richard Peacock, Research Engineer, Fire Research Division,
     represents NIST and DOT on the NFPA 130 committee and the ASTM E5.17
     committee developing standards for fire safety in passenger rail
     vehicles. These activities are tied directly to the DOT funded work
     to develop advanced fire hazard analysis methods to be used in
     federal regulation.

     NFPA Halon Alternatives

     Dr. William Grosshandler, Chief of the Fire Research Division, is a
     member of the NFPA 2001 committee developing standards for
     replacements for halon extinguishing agents. This activity is
     coordinated with the BFRL research on halon replacements.

     NFPA Alternative Approaches to Life Safety

     Mr. David Stroup, fire protection engineer, Fire Research Division,
     chairs the National Fire Protection Association committee on
     Alternative Approaches to Life Safety, NFPA 101A. The Alternative
     Approaches to Life Safety standard provides methodologies for
     measuring equivalency to the prescriptive requirements of NFPA 101,
     Life Safety Code. The document includes several Fire Safety
     Evaluation Systems (FSES) developed at NIST for various building
     occupancy types. As chair of the committee responsible for this fire
     safety standard, Mr. Stroup presented the committees report for
     adoption at the NFPA Fall Meeting held in Orlando, FL on November
     15, 2000. At this meeting, the NFPA membership approved the latest
     revision of the standard, and, more significantly, accepted the
     first software package, useful for evaluating equivalency, for
     inclusion in the standard. The software, which was developed by
     Hughes Associates through a contract with the Building and Fire
     Research Laboratory at NIST, implements an enhanced Fire Safety
     Evaluation System for business type occupancies.


  RILEM
  International Union of Research and Testing Laboratories for Materials and
  Structures (RILEM)

     Mr. Dale Bentz was appointed to the Coordinating Committee of RILEM,
     the International Union of Research and Testing Laboratories for
     Materials and Structures, for a three-year term. RILEM is a
     pre-standards organization the technical documents from which
     frequently become the basis for national or international standards.
     The Coordinating Committee has oversight of the technical quality
     and progress of the work in all RILEM technical committees.

     RILEM Technical Committee 129-MHT

     Dr. Long Phan is a Senior Member of RILEM Technical Committee
     129-MHT, Test Methods for Mechanical Properties of Concrete at High
     Temperatures.

     Workshop on Standards in Trade: Building and Construction

     Dr. Walter Rossiter was a member of the US team participating in the
     Workshop on Standards in Trade: Building and Construction, that was
     held in Vietnam. The Workshop was co-sponsored by NIST and the
     Vietnamese Directorate for Standards and Quality and was held to
     inform representatives of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations
     of the important role that codes and standards play in building
     construction. Dr. Rossiter was a key speaker providing an overview
     of the U.S. building regulatory system and describing the interface
     between the U.S. building design and regulatory communities.

                                Graphic Rule

     Privacy Statement/Security Notice  |  Disclaimer  |  FOIA

   Technical Website Questions: bfrlwebmaster@nist.gov

   NIST is an agency of the U.S. Commerce Department's Technology
   Administration.

   Link to NIST Centennial Site
                                                                 BFRL Logo

                           Date created: 6/10/2001
                           Last updated: 6/10/2001
