http://www.usatrade.gov/website/website.nsf/WebBySubj/Main_WhatsNew120401

   Export.gov Logo

                  U. S. Commercial Service
                  About Whats New 120401

                             Find Int'l Partners

                               Market Research

                                Trade Events

                           Consulting and Advocacy

                               Trade Resources


      U.S. Commercial Service Logo

    Quick Reference
    About Us
    Employment
    Press Room
    Special Initiatives
    Contact Us
    BuyUSA Sites

   Find an Office Near You: _____ [BUTTON Input] (not implemented)__
   Enter Zip Code
   Logo for the E-Marketplace: BuyUSA

                    International Market Insight - FRANCE

       BROUGHT TO YOU BY THE U.S. COMMERCIAL SERVICE: WWW.USATRADE.GOV

     THE CHANGE FROM THE FRENCH FRANC TO THE EURO: IMPACT ON U.S. FIRMS

      Philippe Guerrier Olivier Collette, Ronald Soriano, Jennifer Hess

                                 11/30/2001

     THE CHANGE FROM THE FRENCH FRANC TO THE EURO: IMPACT ON U.S. FIRMS.

   An important -- if manageable -- challenge in 2002 for American
   companies in France and the rest of Europe will be dealing with the
   effects of the disappearance of the French Franc -- and eleven other
   European currencies -- and the entry of a new European currency -- the
   Euro -- into the global financial and commercial marketplace. The
   adoption of a single monetary unit for 12 of the current 15 countries
   in the European Union (EU) will have an impact beyond Europe. It is
   important that US firms be aware of and prepared for some of the
   changes the introduction of this new currency will bring about.

   Summary

   Beginning January 1, 2002, it will no longer be possible to write
   checks and make electronic payments in French Francs. Euro coins and
   bills will be introduced in France as well as in 11 other EU countries
   (Austria, Belgium, Ireland, Finland, Germany, Italy, Greece, the
   Netherlands, Luxembourg, Portugal, Spain), replacing national
   currencies. The French Franc, will, by February 17 2002, have been
   completely withdrawn from circulation and have ceased to be legal
   tender. This development may have implications for the way U.S
   exporters do business with and in France. In any case, U.S. exporters
   and their French partners and representatives will need to address the
   consequences of the introduction of this new currency -- if they
   haven't already -- in their business activities, including such aspects
   as pricing, invoicing, banking, and taxation, in their dealings in the
   French market. In any case, the transition to the Euro in France, as in
   most of the rest of Europe, has been smooth, making the adoption of the
   Euro by businesses a rather positive development, without any
   significant impediments to commercial activity.

   Implications for U.S. exporters

   For American exporters, it is important to realize that the Euro will
   create many transactional efficiencies, as the elimination of 12
   currencies will allow them to deal in one rather a number of
   currencies. In addition, there will be greater price transparency at
   all levels, allowing companies, both American and non-American, to have
   a better idea of how prices of goods and services compare in most
   Western European countries.

   In France, in order to ensure a smooth transition to the Euro,
   companies have set up plans for the shift to the Euro, which may differ
   depending on the size of the company and the type of business in which
   they are engaged. Plans cover such areas as distribution, financing,
   contracts, taxes and accounting, information technology, and human
   resources. Most companies in France have already set in motion
   mechanisms to facilitate transition to the Euro.

   Company managers, including American companies with subsidiaries in
   France, will see the changeover to the Euro as requiring them to
   denominate salaries and pay employees in Euros. Taxes will have to paid
   starting in January 2002.

   Distribution has already been affected by the introduction of the Euro.
   US firms investing and trading in Europe will see transportation costs
   fall over the medium and long term, as price information on such costs
   will be clearer. Many firms involved in distribution will begin to use
   the Euro in their everyday invoices and bills of lading. There will be
   a trend towards using the Euro rather than the US dollar for
   transactions. Companies must be ready to prepare invoices in Euros
   rather than US dollars, if requested by their distributor or agent in
   Europe.

   For small and medium-sized enterprises without the funds to hedge
   transactions, the currency-stabilizing effect of the Euro will be a
   great benefit, reducing exchange rate risk.

   With regard to investment, American investors will find it easier to
   make investment decisions as they will be better able to make better
   comparative assessments of the financial positions of European
   companies in which they may wish to invest, either by acquisition or
   through securities purchases.

   The change to the Euro will generally have positive effects on U.S. and
   other companies operating in Europe. The Euro has already become a
   transaction currency in many quarters in Europe, including in France.

   Impact of the Euro on the commercial marketplace

   In addition, the fact that the Euro is becoming a "real" currency could
   have some macro-economic effects on the European economies, and
   therefore on demand for American goods and services. Already, the
   requirements for entry into the Euro -- which were to be met by
   December 1998 -- required that those countries wishing to enter the
   Euro meet certain requirements regarding inflation rates, currency
   stability, long-term interest rates, government debt levels and
   budgetary policies. The impact of meeting these requirements resulted
   in national budgetary and monetary policies that were conducive to
   economic recovery and growth, as witnessed by the European economic
   growth rates in the 1998-2000 period, leading to greater demand for
   goods, including imports.

   At the same time, shortly after the Euro was introduced as a
   transactional unit on January 1, 1999, the decline of the value of the
   Euro and the currencies associated with it vis-a-vis the dollar made
   the prices of U.S. goods and services less competitive, with the
   consequent effect of making it more difficult for American companies to
   compete -- at least price-wise. The decline in the value of the Euro
   has been interpreted as a lack of confidence in that new currency, a
   phenomenon that should not be too unexpected. It should be noted that
   the impact has not been as great in some sectors as in other (less in
   IT than in heavy machinery products, for example). Also.the fact that
   the Euro is going through what is in effect a "transition period" --
   from only transactional to soon real -- may have had a dampening effect
   on its value.

   There has now been some speculation that as the Euro becomes in fact a
   "real" currency, its value will appreciate, as confidence in the
   currency rises -- perhaps to parity with the US dollar,. Such a
   development would have a positive effect on the prices of U.S. exports
   (lowering them in Euro terms).

   Issues of importance to U.S. companies

   On the practical level, American companies should be aware of the
   following issues with regard to the Euro's introduction:

   1) It may be in their interest to prepare price lists and invoices in
   Euros, which would provide them with a competitive edge, as price
   comparisons would be easier to make;

   2) Efficiencies in transactional costs may allow companies to provide
   better prices for their goods and services;

   3) Cost comparisons in Europe will be more transparent and easier;

   4) Distribution costs in Europe could be lower, as more transparent
   cost comparisons will allow suppliers to select the most competitive
   and efficient distribution agents and networks.

   Effect on competition

   The introduction of the Euro will also generate more competition in the
   European market place. In addition, commercial inefficiencies and other
   market distortions will become more evident, requiring firms to become
   more competitive across Europe. This will work to the benefit of US
   firms, in that it will be easier to identify price discrepancies,
   making costs easier to comprehend and compare. Such transparency will
   create the conditions for increased and easier cross-border commercial
   transactions. European customers will also be much more likely to use
   the Internet and even travel to other countries to take advantage of
   what can be more clearly identified as better prices for good and
   services. The common currency will benefit firms with competitive
   prices and quality products.

   Challenges: technology and training

   The market is now opening up for technology focused on the use of the
   Euro. Technology is thought to be the biggest challenge to US firms.
   Businesses are going to need to be able to continue operations in two
   currencies until the Euro becomes permanent. Software systems taking
   into account Euro transactions will have to be installed. For many
   firms operating in Western Europe presently, however, the move to a
   European single currency will simplify software requirements over the
   long-term.

   Training will be an important part of the implementation of a new
   monetary system. Employees must be trained to deal in the new currency,
   to prepare sales instruments and other documents in Euros.

   Conclusion: globalization and European integration

   The new currency in being introduced at a time when globalization -- of
   French firms and the French economy -- is taking hold. With the US
   dollar representing nearly 80 percent of all global financial
   transactions, while accounting for only some 20 percent of the global
   market of goods and services, it is expected that the introduction of
   the Euro will begin a process of increasing the relative role and share
   of the of the Euro in international financial transactions. Increased
   distribution of currencies used in global markets should bring about
   more stability, a development which, in the long run, will be positive
   for those involved in international trade. U.S. firms doing business on
   a Europe-wide basis will generally benefit from the efficiencies of
   dealing in only one currency rather than twelve. At the same time, a
   short-term effect will be the rise in certain product and service
   prices as companies recover the costs of conversion to a common
   currency and the elimination of national currencies.

   On a more general, philosophical, level, the introduction of a new
   European currency is the latest in a series of stages in the creation
   of a truly integrated Europe. The change to the Euro, added to the
   facility of movement of capital and people which has been already put
   into place, will make Europe an even more attractive marketplace for
   quality and competitive American products. While the approach to the
   markets of Europe will still be to some degree national, the potential
   for developing truly European export strategies is great -- and the
   Euro represents an additional, important step in that direction.

   NOTES:

   1. Timeline of introduction of the Euro

   Euro notes will be introduced on January 1, 2002. The notes are in
   different colors and sizes to enable easy identification. There are
   eight denominations of coins ranging from 1 cent to 2 Euros.

   French francs notes and coins will remain in circulation as legal
   tender alongside Euros and cents between January 1, 2002 and February
   17, 2002 -- which will be the last day on which for French Francs
   currency can be used.

   2. Exchange Rates for the Euro

   1 Euro = 6.55957 French francs (Fixed as of December 1998)

   1 French Franc = 0.152449 Euro (Fixed as of December 1998)

   1 Euro = 0.8882 USD (November 2001)

   1 USD = 1.13 Euro (November 2001)

   3. Coins and Notes

   · Euro coins

   1 cent = 0.01 Euro = 0.07 franc

   2 cents = 0.02 Euro = 0.13 franc

   5 cents = 0.05 Euro = 0.33 franc

   10 cents = 0.1 Euro = 0.66 franc

   20 cents = 0.20 Euro = 1.31 franc

   50 cents = 0.50 Euro = 3.28 franc

   1 Euro = 6.56 francs

   2 Euros= 13.12 francs

   · Euro notes

   5 Euros = 32.80 francs

   10 Euros = 65.60 francs

   20 Euros = 131.19 francs

   50 Euros = 327.98 francs

   100 Euros = 655.96 francs

   200 Euros = 1311.91 francs

   500 Euros = 3279.79 francs

   4. Useful Web Sites

   http://www.eurunion.org/ (English)

   http://www.ecb.int/ (English)

   http://www.euro.gov.uk/ (English)

   http://europa.eu.int/ (English and French)

   http://www.euro.fee.be/ (English)

   http://www.euro.gouv.fr/ (French)

                        Privacy Statement | Site Map
      BuyUSA | International Trade Administration | U.S. Department of
                                  Commerce
