http://www.rehab.cahwnet.gov/public/grants.htm


   California - The Golden State    California Home Page Governor's Home
                                                         Page


     DEPARTMENT OF REHABILITATION Employment, Independence & Equality d

                     Department of Rehabilitation Grants

                                Gold Horizontal Bar
      DOR administers several kinds of grants to support services to
          individuals with disabilities. The grants are primarily for
          providers or organizations that offer services to our consumers
          and/or Californians with disabilities.
          DOR grants can be funded from a variety of sources and adhere to
          different regulations. Carefully read the information provided
          about a grant. You can contact the grant coordinator with questions
          by using the e-mail links provided.
          A list of the most current Request For Proposals.
          Several different units in DOR administer grants. Select one of
          areas listed below to learn about the specific programs, grant
          cycles and requirements.

      Independent Living
      VR Service Provider
      Blind Services
          Independent Living Grants
          The Independent Living Section (ILS) of DOR offers grants to
          private nonprofit organizations in three areas.
          Choose one of the specific grant categories, Technical Assistance ,
          Self Advocacy or Community Organizing, to view the Request for
          Proposals or email questions to the Independent Living Sections
          Grant Coordinator.
          Review Title 9 Regulations regarding establishment grants.
             + Technical Assistance Grants

          No grants available at this time

        * Self Advocacy Training

          No grants available at this time

        * Community Organizing

          No grants available at this time

   Service Provider Grants

          The Community Resources Development Section of DOR conducts
          extensive needs assessments across 17 districts to determine gaps
          in the local services that consumers need to be successful in
          employment preparation and placement. Establishment grants are
          designed to best address the needs of DOR consumers and local
          district priorities for services. Services established by these
          grants are intended to assist people with disabilities prepare for
          employment and include situational assessments, vocational
          evaluations, employment services, rehabilitation technology
          training, independent living skills and personal vocational and
          social adjustment.
          Review Title 9 Regulations regarding establishment grants.
          No grants available at this time.

   Blind Services Grants

          DOR's services for the Blind and Visually Impaired administers
          grants to private, nonprofit agencies that provide direct
          independent living services to visually impaired individuals age 55
          and older. Core services funded by these grants include orientation
          & mobility, activities of daily living, adjustment counseling,
          advocacy, adaptive equipment/assistive technology and
          transportation.
          Review Title VII Regulations regarding independent living grants
          for the elderly blind.
          No grants available at this time.

   Requests for Proposals Listed by Due Date

      No grants available at this time.


                                Gold Horizontal Bar


    DOR Home / Services / ADA / DOR Employment / Consumer Assistance /
   Independent Living
   About DOR / Grants / Service Providers / Employment Resources / FYI

      Comment Form / Table of Contents / Conditions of Use / Privacy Policy /
                                 E-mail Webmaster
                         Website Last Updated January 2002
