http://www.boost4kids.gov/topics.cfm?ID=2

   REFRESH(200 sec): file://localhost/


   Welcome

   Meet B4K Network

   Find Your State

   Home


   Boost 4 Kids

   HOME

Hot Topics

   work together



   HEALTH INSURANCE


   100% Campaign, Health Insurance for Every California Child

   The 100% Campaign, a collaborative effort of Children Now, Children's
   Defense Fund and The Children's Partnership with primary funding from
   The California Endowment, was created to ensure that every California
   child has health insurance.

   America's Insure Kids Now Campaign to Increase Child Health Insurance
   Coverage

   Information on federal and state programs to increase health insurance
   coverage for children. Customer service, 800 telephone number, contact
   information. Child Health Insurance Program information and contacts.
   Clearinghouse on effective strategies and programs. Spanish and
   English.

   Assessing the New Federalism

   "Assessing the New Federalism," an Urban Institute Project, is a
   multi-year Urban Institute research project to analyze the devolution
   of responsibility for social programs from the federal government to
   the states, focusing primarily on health care, income security, job
   training, and social services.

   Campaign for Coverage

   The number of Campaign for Coverage participants grew to roughly 1,500
   hospitals and health systems - each with an exciting story to tell.
   They found ways to extend coverage to nearly 2.5 million uninsured
   people and to improve access to health care services for another 3.4
   million people.

   Chartbook on Children's Insurance Status

   This chartbook examines demographic and other characteristics of
   insured and uninsured children in the U.S. It is based on data from the
   March 1998 Current Population Survey CPS and reflects childrens
   insurance status during calendar year 1997.

   Child Health Insurance and the National School Lunch Program

   Fostering A Close Connection: Report to Covering Kids on Options for
   Conducting Child Health Insurance Outreach and Enrollment Through the
   National School Lunch Program

   Childrens Health Insurance Program (CHIP) - Outreach and Enrollment

   A description and history of the CHIP program. Includes suggestions
   regarding several issues, including reaching all eligible children and
   improving the application process.

   Children's Defense Fund, an Introduction to CHIP

   Enacted by the U.S. Congress in August 1997, the state Children's
   Health Insurance Program (CHIP) is designed primarily to help children
   in working families with incomes too high to qualify for Medicaid but
   too low to afford private family coverage.

   Children's Health Insurance Data 1998

   A report from the Commerce Department's Census Bureau revealed that the
   number of uninsured children was 11.1 million (15.4 percent) in 1998.

   CHIP Toolkit

   This community guide is designed to assist local groups across the
   country in informing families about and enrolling children in the new
   Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and Medicaid.

   Congress Lifts the Sunset on the "$500 Million Fund"

   Extends Opportunities for States to Ensure Parents and Children Do Not
   Lose Health Coverage. A total of $500 million in federal matching funds
   was made available to states at enhanced rates to implement the
   delinking of welfare and Medicaid eligibility for families with
   children.

   Connect for Kids

   Connect for Kids is a virtual encyclopedia of information for adults
   who want to make their communities better places for kids.

   Covering Kids

   covering kids, a national health access initiative for low-income,
   uninsured children, is a $47 million program of The Robert Wood Johnson
   Foundation to help increase the number of eligible children who benefit
   from health insurance coverage programs.

   Ensuring Parents and Children Don't Loose Health Coverage

   Welfare reform has resulted in declines in states Medicaid caseloads
   and reduced insurance coverage of eligible children. The 1996 federal
   welfare reform law established a pool of $500 million in federal
   matching funds to help states pay for the costs associated with
   ensuring that children and parents do not lose Medicaid coverage as a
   result of the new law.

   Families USA

   Families USA is a national nonprofit, non-partisan organization
   dedicated to the achievement of high-quality, affordable health and
   long-term care for all Americans. This site includes information on
   children's health and Medicade. It also contains publications.

   Free & Low-Cost Health Insurance

   The Start Healthy, Stay Healthy campaign is a national outreach effort
   conducted by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities to identify
   children from low-income working families who may be eligible for free
   or low-cost health insurance programs.

   Gaps in Insurance Coverage for Children: A Pre-CHIP Baseline

   Data from the 1997 National Survey of America's Families (NSAF) are
   analyzed here to estimate the number and composition of children
   lacking health insurance prior to the implementation of CHIP. Findings
   show that 9.2 million children ages 18 and under and 2 million
   individuals ages 19 and 20 lacked insurance coverage in 1997.

   Hawai'i Covering Kids

   Hawaii Covering Kids is a three-year project launched in June 1999 to
   create a seamless health insurance enrollment process for children
   eligible for QUEST (a Medicaid program) and State CHIP (Childrens
   Health Insurance Program).

   Health Insurance and Coordination with School Lunch Programs

   This is the first in a series of issue briefs about some of the
   innovative methods being explored to offer more children affordable
   health care. Schools are an obvious place to find children, and states
   are reporting that sending information about childrens health insurance
   through the school system is a very effective way to generate
   applications and enrollment.

   Health Insurance Applications for Each State

   This page features health insurance applications and information on how
   to submit completed forms in all states.

   Health Insurance Data, Census

   This site contains information on the current population survey on
   health insurance coverage: 1998, children's health insurance, low
   income uninsured children by state and detailed historical tables from
   the current population survey: 1987-1998.

   Health Insurance Makes a Difference in Health Care

   "The Impact of a Children's Health Insurance Program by Age," as
   published in Pediatrics, reports health insurance leads to reductions
   in unmet medical needs, delayed care and restricted childhood
   activities among all age groups, but especially for older children.

   Healthfinder

   One stop information on federal sources of health information.
   Information on adoption, asthma, child care, diabetes, medicare,
   nutrition, pregnancy, prevention, health care, sexually transmitted
   diseases, tobacco, immunization, mental health, substance abuse, etc.

   Hope for Kids

   HOPE for Kids, a program of HOPE worldwide, is one of the most
   effective health education and immunization outreach programs in North
   America with more than 40,000 volunteers active in 107 cities
   throughout 39 states, Puerto Rico and Canada.

   Insure Kids Now

   Millions of children are eligible for free and low-cost health coverage
   through state childrens health insurance programs (SCHIP) and Medicaid.

   Low Income Uninsured Children by State

   Number and Percent of Children under 19 Years of Age, at or below 200
   Percent of poverty, by State: Three-Year Averages for 1996, 1997, and
   1998.

   Making Child Health Coverage A Reality: Medicaid and CHIP Strategies

   This report from the Kaiser Family Foundation notes a number of areas
   where improvements can be made, such as investing more in
   labor-intensive community-based outreach and services.

   Making It Clear: Quick Guide to Public Charge

   The Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) has summarized the
   latest "public charge" rules in a new two-page flyer -- "Making It
   Clear: Quick Guide to Public Charge" -- to help clarify regulations on
   accessing public benefits and the impact on immigrant "green card"
   applications.

   Medicaid and SCHIP: Comparisons of Outreach, Enrollment Practices, and
   Benefits

   In some states the Medicaid enrollment process is more complicated than
   required by federal law.

   Millions of Health Insurance-Eligible Teens Remain Uninsured

   New Study Finds States Must Work Harder to Enroll More Than 2 Million
   Eligible Adolescents

   Missed Opportunities

   Reviewing the data on Medicaid enrollments for kids, the Center on
   Budget and Policy Priorities' "Missed Opportunities" report argues that
   "states and the federal government need, in particular, to take steps
   to assure that changes in welfare policies do not result in children
   missing out on the coverage for which they are eligible."

   Most Uninsured Children Are in Families Served by Government Programs

   This report is part of the "New Federalism: National Survey of
   America's Families" series by the Urban Institute. Using estimates
   drawn from the 1997 National Survey of America's Families (NSAF), this
   brief examines the potential of certain federal programs for reaching
   the families of uninsured children.

   National Corporations and Organizations Promoting Insure Kids Now

   This document outlines what private corporations and organizations have
   been doing to promote Insure Kids Now. This is list of specific actions
   being taken by those organizations.

   National Governors Association

   The National Governors Association site contains issue papers on a
   variety of SCHIP issues, childrens issues, including policy papers,
   links to states, and best practices from state government, grant
   announcements, and survey instruments.

   National Health Law Program

   Working for Justice in Health Care for Low Income People.

   National Survey of America's Families - Public Use Data

   The National Survey of America's Families can now be viewed using a
   simple point-and-click prgram availabe for free on the web. The NSAF
   Tabulator has data on 33,703 children. Variables include demographic
   characteristics such as age, sex, race, income, and family structure;
   health insurance and status; and children's and adults' behanivor and
   attitudes. The Tabulator will generate national data, as well as
   state-specific dta for Alabama, California, Colorado, Flroida,
   Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, New Jersey, New York,
   Texas, Washington, and Wisconsin.

   Nebraska's Application to HHS for SCHIP

   Nebraska has combined Medicaid/SCHIP program with presumptive
   eligibility.

   Presumptive Eligibility for Children

   States that have created a separate CHIP (S-CHIP) program can ensure
   that health care is immediately available to children who appear to be
   eligible by allowing schools to grant presumptive eligibility.

   Presumptive Eligibility for Children: A Promising New Strategy for
   Enrolling Uninsured Children in Medicaid by Donna Cohen Ross

   The Balanced Budget Act contains a provision that gives states the
   option of allowing certain health care providers and other
   community-based organizations to "presumptively" enroll children in
   Medicaid who appear to be eligible based on their age and family
   income.

   Public Charge

   In an effort to protect the public health and help people become
   self-sufficient, the Clinton Administration is publishing a proposed
   rule in the Federal Register on May 26 that clarifies the circumstances
   under which a non-citizen can receive public benefits without becoming
   a public charge for purposes of admission into the United States,
   adjustment of status to legal permanent resident, and deportation.

   Real Clout

   "Real Clout" is a manual for community-based activists who are trying
   to improve health care access by influencing public policy.

   Robert Wood Johnson Foundation

   Covering Kids is a three year project funded by the Robert Wood Johnson
   Foundation to identify and enroll eligible children into Medicaid and
   other health coverage programs. These goals will be accomplished by
   supporting state-community coalitions to pursue the three goals at the
   statewide level and to work with local coalitions in two to three pilot
   sites. The lead organization may be a statewide child advocacy
   organization, state medical or hospital association, a private coverage
   program, a state agency, a civic, educational, religious or
   philanthropic organization, or other group that can assume a statewide
   leadership role. Each state-community coalition must design both a
   statewide project and pilot community-based initiatives. Three-year
   grants support 50 statewide and 167 local coalitions in conducting
   outreach initiatives and working toward enrollment simplification and
   coordination of health coverage programs for low-income children. The
   grants range from $500,000 to $1 million.

   SCHIP -- State Plans

   This Health Care Financing Administration site contains state plans,
   approval letters, fact sheets and other official correspondence for
   most State Child Health Insurance Programs. Click on the map to get
   information for your state.

   SCHIP: Matching Rates and Allotments by State

   State-by-State information regarding available resources for child
   health care funding and where it comes from.

   SCHIP: NGA's Annual Report 1999

   Two years after the passage SCHIP, all 50 U.S. states, three
   territories and three commonwealths have submitted plans, received
   approval from the Health Care Financing Administration (HCFA), and
   begun implementation. NGAs site contains state-by-state reports.

   Snapshots of Americas Families: Variations in Health Care across States

   This paper presents preliminary findings from the 1997 National Survey
   of Americas Families (NSAF), a household survey providing information
   on over 100,000 children and non-elderly adults representing the
   noninstitutionalized civilian population under age 65. The primary
   focus is on health insurance coverage and several measures of access to
   care. (NOTE: Adobe Acrobat Reader is required to view this report.)

   State Children's Health Insurance Program

   This site contains State Children's Health Insurance Program best
   practices from the National Governors' Association.

   State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP)

   SCHIP: What the States Are Doing, from the National Conference of State
   Legislatures. Includes lots of specific state by state information on
   plans, goals, applications, outreach efforts, funding, etc.

   State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) - Questions

   Question 32(a). When do expenditures under the presumptive eligibility
   provision of Medicaid qualify for the enhanced match and when do such
   costs count against the Title XXI allotment? Question 32(b) How are the
   costs of presumptive eligibility determined that are counted against
   individual State allotments (2104(d)(1))?

   State Health Insurance Program Information from the Health Care
   Financing Administration

   HCFAs informational website on the State Children's Health Insurance
   Program (SCHIP). Contains state plan submissions, status reports, state
   contacts, activity map, plan approval information, enrollment status
   report, letters to state officials, outreach information and FAQs about
   SCHIP. This site also has links to all of the SCHIP regulations in the
   Federal Register. Links to the HCFA outreach clearinghouse with tools
   for states, schools, community organizations, advocates and others.

   State Planning Grants

   Information for grants to encourage States to provide access to
   affordable health insurance coverage to all citizens by providing
   States the resources for planning and a supportive policy environment
   for implementation of these plans.

   Steps States Can Take to Facilitate Medicaid Enrollment of Children

   Ten steps states can take to facilitate the enrollment of children in
   Medicaid.

   The Access Project

   The Access Project views local healthcare initiatives as part of a
   continuum of reform efforts that need to be better understood,
   supported and studied. Rather than detracting from state and national
   reform, local efforts are filling gaps in the system of care for the
   uninsured and are providing instruction for the development of
   comprehensive solutions.

   The Kaiser Commission on Medicaid and the Uninsured

   The website for the Kaiser Commission on Medicaid and the Uninsured,
   strives to bring increased public awareness and expanded analytic
   effort to the policy debate over health coverage and access, with a
   special focus on Medicaid and the uninsured.

   The Southern Regional Initiative to Improve Access to Benefits for Low
   Income Families With Children

   The Southern Regional Initiatives report discusses issues and
   strategies states can consider in providing health coverage for more
   low income children. The chapter contains a discussion of eligibility
   outreach and eligibility simplification issues, including common
   applications.

   Welfare Information Network

   This site is a Clearinghouse for Information, Policy Analysis &
   Technical Assistance on Welfare Reform. This is a must see sight! Any
   type of welfare information imaginable can be found in this one place.
   Rural issues, evaluation strategies, events, publications, health
   insurance, and domestic violence are just a few of the sub-links within
   this site.

   What Did Welfare Reform Do to Medicaid in Your State and What Can You
   Do About it?

   The Robert Wood Johnson "State of the States" report analyzes state
   health care coverage and identifies upcoming challenges like including
   oral health services and maintaining a steady base of enrollment in
   Medicaid and CHIP.

   Text Only | News | Contact Us | Privacy Statement | Home
