http://www.coastal.ca.gov/legal/mmsltr.pdf

   STATE OF CALIFORNIA-THE RESOURCES AGENCY GRAY DAVIS, GOVERNOR
   CALIFORNIA COASTAL COMMISSION 45 FREMONT, SUITE 2000 SAN FRANCISCO, CA
   94105-2219 VOICE AND TDD (415) 904-5200 FAX (415) 904-5400 November 19,
   1999 Walt Rosenbusch Director Minerals Management Service 1849 C
   Street, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20240 Dear Mr. Rosenbusch: This letter is
   in response to Secretary Bruce Babbitt's letter to Sara Wan, Chair of
   the California Coastal Commission (Commission), dated November 12,
   1999. That letter states that the Minerals Management Service (MMS) has
   granted 36 lease suspensions requested by Outer Continental Shelf (OCS)
   lessees. These lease suspensions function to extend or renew the
   primary (5 year) terms of the respective OCS leases and, therefore, are
   subject to the consistency review requirements of Section 307(c)(3)(A)
   of the federal Coastal Zone Management Act (CZMA) (16 USC §
   1456(c)(3)(A)). Section 307(c)(3)(A) of the CZMA requires that an
   applicant for any federal license or permit for any activity in or
   outside of the coastal zone that affects any coastal zone resource
   prepare and submit a consistency certification to the Commission. The
   regulations implementing the CZMA define a federal license and permit
   as follows: "(a) The term "Federal license or permit" means any
   authorization, certification, approval, or other form of permission
   which any Federal agency is empowered to issue to an applicant." [15
   CFR § 930.51(a)] A lease of federal lands, including the OCS, is a form
   of permission that the MMS, a federal agency, is empowered to issue to
   an applicant. The lease suspensions function to extend or renew the
   primary (5 year) term of the leases WALT ROSENBUSCH NOVEMBER 18, 1999
   PAGE 2 to which they pertain. 1 Section 930.51(b) of the CZMA
   regulations includes within the definition of "federal license or
   permit" several types of license and permit renewals. This list of
   renewals includes "Renewals ... of Federal license and permit
   activities not previously reviewed by the State agency" (15 CFR
   930.51(b)(1)). The decision of the U.S. Supreme Court in the case of
   Secretary of the Interior v. California, 464 U.S. 312 (1984),
   prohibited the Commission from reviewing these leases. Therefore, the
   subject lease suspensions are subject to federal consistency review as
   "renewals...of Federal license and permit activities not previously
   reviewed by the [Commission]." Activities authorized by OCS leases
   affect the natural resources of California's coastal zone. This
   determination was made in 1977 when the Commission developed and the
   federal government approved the Coastal Management Program for the
   state of California (CCMP). The CCMP includes a list of federal
   licenses and permits for activities that both the Commission and the
   federal government determined to be likely to affect coastal resources.
   This list includes "licenses and permits required for drilling and
   mining on public lands (BLM)" (CCMP, p. 92). Therefore, an OCS lease is
   a federal license or permit that is listed in the CCMP. Although the
   CCMP designates the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) as the federal
   agency responsible for permitting oil and gas drilling activities on
   federal land, the Commission believes that this permit and license
   listing also includes OCS leases awarded by the MMS. The federal
   government approved the CCMP in 1977. At that time, BLM was the agency
   responsible for leasing OCS areas for 1 Further support for the fact
   that these suspensions function to extend or renew the terms of the
   leases can be found in section 5(a)(1) of the Outer Continental Shelf
   Lands Act (OCSLA; 43 USC § 1334 (a)(1)), which provides for "the
   extension of any permit or lease affected by suspension...by a period
   equivalent to the period of such suspension..." and in section
   250.113(b) of the MMS's regulations (Title 30, CFR), which provides
   that: "If [an OCS lessee] stop[s] conducting operations during...the
   primary lease term, [a] lease will remain in effect only if [the
   lessee]: .... (2) Ask[s] MMS for a suspension of operations or
   production under 30 CFR 250.110...and thereafter receive[s] the [MMS's]
   approval." Other than the above-cited authorities, neither the OCSLA
   nor the regulations promulgated by the MMS to implement the OCSLA
   contain any authority pursuant to which the term of an unexercised or
   undeveloped OCS lease can be extended or renewed. Cf. 30 CFR § 256.73
   (primary or extended term of OCS lease extended by period equivalent to
   that of lease suspension granted pursuant to 30 CFR § 250.110). WALT
   ROSENBUSCH NOVEMBER 18, 1999 PAGE 3 drilling purposes. In 1982, by
   Secretarial Order, the Secretary of the Interior created the MMS and
   delegated to it responsibility for leasing OCS submerged lands (see
   Secretarial Order 3071 as amended). Therefore, the authority for OCS
   submerged lands for oil and gas exploration and development was
   transferred from BLM to MMS after the federal government certified the
   CCMP. Thus, pursuant to 15 CFR § 930.51(b)(1), the status as a listed
   federal permit extends to the approval by MMS of any request by an OCS
   lessee for suspension of a lease that has not previously been the
   subject of a consistency review by the Commission. Accordingly, section
   307(c)(3)(A) of the CZMA prohibits the MMS from granting the
   suspensions until the Coastal Commission concurs with a consistency
   certification. Specifically, the CZMA regulations provide that: "No
   Federal license or permit described on an approved list shall be issued
   by a Federal agency until the requirements of this subpart have been
   satisfied. Federal agencies shall inform applicants for listed licenses
   and permits of the requirements of this subpart." (15 CFR § 930.53(e).)
   Therefore, the determination that the activities authorized by any
   federal approval of drilling and mining on federal land affects coastal
   resources was made at the time the federal government approved the
   CCMP. Further, the regulations implementing the CZMA make this
   determination applicable to any extension or renewal of any listed
   federal approval. The Department of the Interior does not have the
   discretion to determine that the activities authorized by an approval
   listed in the CCMP, or by an extension or renewal of any such approval,
   do not affect the coastal zone and thus are not subject to the
   consistency review requirements of the CZMA. In the alternative, should
   it be established that OCS leases are not a federal approval listed in
   the CCMP, the Commission notes that it has also met the requirements
   for reviewing renewals of OCS leases as an unlisted federal approval.
   Section 930.54(a) of the CZMA regulations authorizes the Commission to
   review activities authorized by federal approvals that are not listed
   in its management program provided, in part, that the Commission notify
   the federal permit applicants and federal permitting agency of its
   intent to review the activity within 30 days of receiving notice (15
   CFR § 930.54(a)). The Commission received notice of the lessees'
   applications as early as May 13, 1999. On May 25, 1999, the Commission
   published a status report on California Offshore Oil and Gas Leasing
   and Development, including the then pending OCS lease suspension
   requests. In that report, the Commission identifies lease suspensions
   as federal approvals that could be subject to the consistency review
   WALT ROSENBUSCH NOVEMBER 18, 1999 PAGE 4 requirements of section
   307(c)(3)(A) of the CZMA. The Commission distributed copies of that
   report to the MMS accompanied by public notice of a hearing to discuss
   the report. The report and hearing notice were also made available to
   the OCS lessees who had submitted the suspension requests. The
   Commission held the public hearing on June 8, 1999. At that hearing,
   the Commission identified potential effects from the activities
   authorized by the OCS leases for which various lessees had submitted
   suspension requests. After considering these effects, the Commission
   directed staff to pursue consistency review of the subject suspension
   requests. Therefore, within 30 days of receiving notice of the
   application, the Commission informed the affected parties of its intent
   to pursue consistency review of the lease suspensions. If the federal
   approvals at issue here (i.e., suspensions of OCS leases) are
   determined to be unlisted, the Commission must also request from the
   federal Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management (OCRM)
   permission to review the approvals and the activities they authorize.
   The Commission did not initially make such a request because, as
   discussed above, it considers OCS leases and their extensions or
   renewals to be listed federal approvals. In addition, it appeared at
   that time that the Department of the Interior and MMS were working
   cooperatively with the Commission on this issue and that it might not
   be necessary to make such a request. However, Secretary Babbitt's
   November 12, 1999, letter now makes clear that the Department of the
   Interior is not willing to direct the OCS lessees to submit consistency
   certifications to the Commission. Therefore, in the event that OCS
   leases and their extensions and renewals are determined to be federal
   approvals that are not listed in the CCMP, the Commission, by copy of
   this letter and pursuant to 15 CFR § 930.54(b), hereby requests that
   OCRM authorize the Commission to conduct a consistency review of the
   subject lease suspensions. In his letter dated August 13, 1999,
   Secretary Babbitt concludes that the granting of a suspension does not
   affect coastal zone resources. The Commission, however, believes that
   activities authorized by OCS leases clearly do affect coastal zone
   resources. Specifically, the development of these leases would result
   in impacts to air quality from drilling and tankering activities.
   Additionally, exploration and production of these leases will have
   water quality impacts from discharge of drilling muds and increasing
   the risk of oil spills. The leases will set into motion activities that
   would affect biological resources, including fish and marine mammals,
   and the commercial fishing industry. These effects result from seismic
   testing activities, pollutant discharges, placement of platforms in
   areas currently used for fishing, and debris releases into the marine
   environment. Through the leases, the MMS makes critical decisions as to
   the size and location WALT ROSENBUSCH NOVEMBER 18, 1999 PAGE 5 of the
   tracts and the stipulations to which the leases would be subject. These
   discretionary actions determine whether oil will be transported by
   pipeline or ship, which areas of the coastal zone will be exposed to
   risk of accident, the flow of vessel traffic, and the siting of
   on-shore support facilities. It is at the leasing stage that all of
   these tracts can be considered together, taking into account the
   cumulative effects of all of the leases. If the Commission waits until
   the exploration and development phases to review activities on these
   tracts, that review would be made on a tract-by-tract basis, thus
   reducing its ability to evaluate and address cumulative impacts.
   Therefore, the Commission concludes that the activities authorized by
   the OCS leases for which the MMS has recently granted suspension
   requests affect coastal zone resources and thus are subject to the
   consistency review requirements of section 307(c)(3)(A) of the CZMA.2
   We note that no judgment is being rendered at this time as to whether
   such effects rise to a level of concern that would warrant an objection
   to the consistency certifications. That is a decision that must be
   based on a review of the evidence that would be brought to the
   Commission through the consistency review proceedings. It is clear that
   the subject lease suspensions function to extend or renew a license or
   permit required for drilling or mining on public lands that is listed
   in the CCMP as an activity likely to affect the coastal zone.
   Therefore, the CZMA requires the concurrence by the Commission in a
   consistency certification for these lease suspensions before they can
   be issued. In the alternative, should it be determined that the subject
   suspensions extend or renew a federal approval that is not listed in
   the CCMP, the applications for the suspensions constitute requests for
   the extension or renewal of federal approvals for activities that will
   unequivocally affect the resources of California's coastal zone. By
   copy of this letter the Commission is, if necessary, requesting OCRM's
   approval to review these activities pursuant to the federal consistency
   provisions of applicable law. In closing, we disagree with the
   statement in Secretary Babbitt's November 12 letter, wherein he states
   that the "actions ... [he is] announcing today have been 2 This
   position finds strong support in the enactment by Congress of the
   Coastal Zone Act Reauthorization Amendments of 1990 (CZARA). In taking
   that action Congress determined that activities authorized by OCS
   leases affect the coastal zones of affected states to an extent
   sufficient to justify treating the activities of the MMS in preparing
   OCS lease sales as subject to the consistency review requirement of
   section 307(c)(1) of the CZMA. If the activities authorized by OCS
   leases justify such a finding in the context of prelease activities by
   the MMS, the case for a similar finding in the context of requests by
   OCS lessees for lease suspensions is equally compelling. WALT
   ROSENBUSCH NOVEMBER 18, 1999 PAGE 6 requested at various points by the
   California Coastal Commission...." That is simply not true. The
   Commission has specifically requested that the Department of the
   Interior require federal consistency reviews by the Coastal Commission
   before granting requests for OCS lease suspensions. The essence of the
   dispute that has necessitated the filing of litigation is the question
   of the MMS's responsibilities under the federal CZMA and NEPA with
   respect to its decision to suspend these leases. The Commission remains
   open to discussing the issues with MMS. Please contact me if you have
   any additional questions or comments. The Commission looks forward to
   cntinuing to work with you on these issues and respectfully requests a
   response by November 29, 1999 that satisfies the Commission's concerns.
   Failing that, the Commission will have no choice but to vigorously
   pursue the litigation that has now been filed. Sincerely, PETER M.
   DOUGLAS Executive Director cc: Secretary Bruce Babbitt Governor Gray
   Davis Attorney General William Lockyer Jeff Benoit, Director, OCRM
   Coastal Commissioners Secretary Mary Nichols Affected OCS lessees
