http://www.ecommerce.gov/framewrk.htm

                 A Framework for Global Electronic Commerce

                               THE WHITE HOUSE
                                July 1, 1997

                        Download Framework in WP 6.0

                              TABLE OF CONTENTS

   BACKGROUND

   PRINCIPLES

     1. The private sector should lead.

     2. Governments should avoid undue restrictions on electronic
     commerce.

     3. Where governmental involvement is needed, its aim should be to
     support and enforce a predictable, minimalist, consistent and simple
     legal environment for commerce.

     4. Governments should recognize the unique qualities of the
     Internet.

     5. Electronic Commerce over the Internet should be facilitated on a
     global basis.

   ISSUES

     1. Customs and Taxation

     2. Electronic Payment Systems

     3. 'Uniform Commercial Code' for Electronic Commerce

     4. Intellectual Property Protection

     5. Privacy

     6. Security

     7. Telecommunications Infrastructure and Information Technology

     8. Content

     9. Technical Standards

   A COORDINATED STRATEGY

                             [Red_LineD1C3.gif]

  BACKGROUND

   The Global Information Infrastructure (GII), still in the early stages
   of its development, is already transforming our world. Over the next
   decade, advances on the GII will affect almost every aspect of daily
   life -- education, health care, work and leisure activities. Disparate
   populations, once separated by distance and time, will experience these
   changes as part of a global community.

   No single force embodies our electronic transformation more than the
   evolving medium known as the Internet. Once a tool reserved for
   scientific and academic exchange, the Internet has emerged as an
   appliance of every day life, accessible from almost every point on the
   planet. Students across the world are discovering vast treasure troves
   of data via the World Wide Web. Doctors are utilizing tele-medicine to
   administer off-site diagnoses to patients in need. Citizens of many
   nations are finding additional outlets for personal and political
   expression. The Internet is being used to reinvent government and
   reshape our lives and our communities in the process. As the Internet
   empowers citizens and democratizes societies, it is also changing
   classic business and economic paradigms. New models of commercial
   interaction are developing as businesses and consumers participate in
   the electronic marketplace and reap the resultant benefits.
   Entrepreneurs are able to start new businesses more easily, with
   smaller up-front investment requirements, by accessing the Internet's
   worldwide network of customers.

   Internet technology is having a profound effect on the global trade in
   services. World trade involving computer software, entertainment
   products (motion pictures, videos, games, sound recordings),
   information services (databases, online newspapers), technical
   information, product licenses, financial services, and professional
   services (businesses and technical consulting, accounting,
   architectural design, legal advice, travel services, etc.) has grown
   rapidly in the past decade, now accounting for well over $40 billion of
   U.S. exports alone.

   An increasing share of these transactions occurs online. The GII has
   the potential to revolutionize commerce in these and other areas by
   dramatically lowering transaction costs and facilitating new types of
   commercial transactions.

   The Internet will also revolutionize retail and direct marketing.
   Consumers will be able to shop in their homes for a wide variety of
   products from manufacturers and retailers all over the world. They will
   be able to view these products on their computers or televisions,
   access information about the products, visualize the way the products
   may fit together (constructing a room of furniture on their screen, for
   example), and order and pay for their choice, all from their living
   rooms.

   Commerce on the Internet could total tens of billions of dollars by the
   turn of the century. For this potential to be realized fully,
   governments must adopt a non-regulatory, market-oriented approach to
   electronic commerce, one that facilitates the emergence of a
   transparent and predictable legal environment to support global
   business and commerce. Official decision makers must respect the unique
   nature of the medium and recognize that widespread competition and
   increased consumer choice should be the defining features of the new
   digital marketplace.

   Many businesses and consumers are still wary of conducting extensive
   business over the Internet because of the lack of a predictable legal
   environment governing transactions. This is particularly true for
   international commercial activity where concerns about enforcement of
   contracts, liability, intellectual property protection, privacy,
   security and other matters have caused businesses and consumers to be
   cautious.

   As use of the Internet expands, many companies and Internet users are
   concerned that some governments will impose extensive regulations on
   the Internet and electronic commerce. Potential areas of problematic
   regulation include taxes and duties, restrictions on the type of
   information transmitted, control over standards development, licensing
   requirements and rate regulation of service providers. Indeed, signs of
   these types of commerce-inhibiting actions already are appearing in
   many nations. Preempting these harmful actions before they take root is
   a strong motivation for the strategy outlined in this paper.

   Governments can have a profound effect on the growth of commerce on the
   Internet. By their actions, they can facilitate electronic trade or
   inhibit it. Knowing when to act and -- at least as important -- when
   not to act, will be crucial to the development of electronic commerce.
   This report articulates the Administration's vision for the emergence
   of the GII as a vibrant global marketplace by suggesting a set of
   principles, presenting a series of policies, and establishing a road
   map for international discussions and agreements to facilitate the
   growth of commerce on the Internet.

  PRINCIPLES

   1. The private sector should lead.

   Though government played a role in financing the initial development of
   the Internet, its expansion has been driven primarily by the private
   sector. For electronic commerce to flourish, the private sector must
   continue to lead. Innovation, expanded services, broader participation,
   and lower prices will arise in a market-driven arena, not in an
   environment that operates as a regulated industry.

   Accordingly, governments should encourage industry self-regulation
   wherever appropriate and support the efforts of private sector
   organizations to develop mechanisms to facilitate the successful
   operation of the Internet. Even where collective agreements or
   standards are necessary, private entities should, where possible, take
   the lead in organizing them. Where government action or
   intergovernmental agreements are necessary, on taxation for example,
   private sector participation should be a formal part of the policy
   making process.

   2. Governments should avoid undue restrictions on electronic commerce.

   Parties should be able to enter into legitimate agreements to buy and
   sell products and services across the Internet with minimal government
   involvement or intervention. Unnecessary regulation of commercial
   activities will distort development of the electronic marketplace by
   decreasing the supply and raising the cost of products and services for
   consumers the world over. Business models must evolve rapidly to keep
   pace with the break-neck speed of change in the technology; government
   attempts to regulate are likely to be outmoded by the time they are
   finally enacted, especially to the extent such regulations are
   technology-specific.

   Accordingly, governments should refrain from imposing new and
   unnecessary regulations, bureaucratic procedures, or taxes and tariffs
   on commercial activities that take place via the Internet.

   3. Where governmental involvement is needed, its aim should be to
   support and enforce a predictable, minimalist, consistent and simple
   legal environment for commerce.

   In some areas, government agreements may prove necessary to facilitate
   electronic commerce and protect consumers. In these cases, governments
   should establish a predictable and simple legal environment based on a
   decentralized, contractual model of law rather than one based on
   top-down regulation. This may involve states as well as national
   governments. Where government intervention is necessary to facilitate
   electronic commerce, its goal should be to ensure competition, protect
   intellectual property and privacy, prevent fraud, foster transparency,
   support commercial transactions, and facilitate dispute resolution.

   4. Governments should recognize the unique qualities of the Internet.

   The genius and explosive success of the Internet can be attributed in
   part to its decentralized nature and to its tradition of bottom-up
   governance. These same characteristics pose significant logistical and
   technological challenges to existing regulatory models, and governments
   should tailor their policies accordingly.

   Electronic commerce faces significant challenges where it intersects
   with existing regulatory schemes. We should not assume, for example,
   that the regulatory frameworks established over the past sixty years
   for telecommunications, radio and television fit the Internet.
   Regulation should be imposed only as a necessary means to achieve an
   important goal on which there is a broad consensus. Existing laws and
   regulations that may hinder electronic commerce should be reviewed and
   revised or eliminated to reflect the needs of the new electronic age.

   5. Electronic Commerce over the Internet should be facilitated on a
   global basis.

   The Internet is emerging as a global marketplace. The legal framework
   supporting commercial transactions on the Internet should be governed
   by consistent principles across state, national, and international
   borders that lead to predictable results regardless of the jurisdiction
   in which a particular buyer or seller resides.

  ISSUES

   This paper covers nine areas where international agreements are needed
   to preserve the Internet as a non-regulatory medium, one in which
   competition and consumer choice will shape the marketplace. Although
   there are significant areas of overlap, these items can be divided into
   three main subgroups: financial issues, legal issues, and market access
   issues.

    Financial Issues

     * customs and taxation
     * electronic payments

    Legal Issues

     * 'Uniform Commercial Code' for electronic commerce
     * intellectual property protection
     * privacy
     * security

    Market Access Issues

     * telecommunications infrastructure and information technology
     * content
     * technical standards

  I. Financial Issues

   1. CUSTOMS AND TAXATION

   For over 50 years, nations have negotiated tariff reductions because
   they have recognized that the economies and citizens of all nations
   benefit from freer trade. Given this recognition, and because the
   Internet is truly a global medium, it makes little sense to introduce
   tariffs on goods and services delivered over the Internet.

   Further, the Internet lacks the clear and fixed geographic lines of
   transit that historically have characterized the physical trade of
   goods. Thus, while it remains possible to administer tariffs for
   products ordered over the Internet but ultimately delivered via surface
   or air transport, the structure of the Internet makes it difficult to
   do so when the product or service is delivered electronically.

   Nevertheless, many nations are looking for new sources of revenue, and
   may seek to levy tariffs on global electronic commerce.

   Therefore, the United States will advocate in the World Trade
   Organization (WTO) and other appropriate international fora that the
   Internet be declared a tariff-free environment whenever it is used to
   deliver products or services. This principle should be established
   quickly before nations impose tariffs and before vested interests form
   to protect those tariffs.

   In addition, the United States believes that no new taxes should be
   imposed on Internet commerce. The taxation of commerce conducted over
   the Internet should be consistent with the established principles of
   international taxation, should avoid inconsistent national tax
   jurisdictions and double taxation, and should be simple to administer
   and easy to understand.

   Any taxation of Internet sales should follow these principles:
     * It should neither distort nor hinder commerce. No tax system should
       discriminate among types of commerce, nor should it create
       incentives that will change the nature or location of transactions.
     * The system should be simple and transparent. It should be capable
       of capturing the overwhelming majority of appropriate revenues, be
       easy to implement, and minimize burdensome record keeping and costs
       for all parties.
     * The system should be able to accommodate tax systems used by the
       United States and our international partners today.

   Wherever feasible, we should look to existing taxation concepts and
   principles to achieve these goals.

   Any such taxation system will have to accomplish these goals in the
   context of the Internet's special characteristics -- the potential
   anonymity of buyer and seller, the capacity for multiple small
   transactions, and the difficulty of associating online activities with
   physically defined locations.

   To achieve global consensus on this approach, the United States,
   through the Treasury Department, is participating in discussions on the
   taxation of electronic commerce through the Organization for Economic
   Cooperation and Development (OECD), the primary forum for cooperation
   in international taxation.

   The Administration is also concerned about possible moves by state and
   local tax authorities to target electronic commerce and Internet
   access. The uncertainties associated with such taxes and the
   inconsistencies among them could stifle the development of Internet
   commerce.

   The Administration believes that the same broad principles applicable
   to international taxation, such as not hindering the growth of
   electronic commerce and neutrality between conventional and electronic
   commerce, should be applied to subfederal taxation. No new taxes should
   be applied to electronic commerce, and states should coordinate their
   allocation of income derived from electronic commerce. Of course,
   implementation of these principles may differ at the subfederal level
   where indirect taxation plays a larger role.

   Before any further action is taken, states and local governments should
   cooperate to develop a uniform, simple approach to the taxation of
   electronic commerce, based on existing principles of taxation where
   feasible.

   2. ELECTRONIC PAYMENT SYSTEMS

   New technology has made it possible to pay for goods and services over
   the Internet. Some of the methods would link existing electronic
   banking and payment systems, including credit and debit card networks,
   with new retail interfaces via the Internet. &Electronic money,8 based
   on stored-value, smart card, or other technologies, is also under
   development. Substantial private sector investment and competition is
   spurring an intense period of innovation that should benefit consumers
   and businesses wishing to engage in global electronic commerce.

   At this early stage in the development of electronic payment systems,
   the commercial and technological environment is changing rapidly. It
   would be hard to develop policy that is both timely and appropriate.
   For these reasons, inflexible and highly prescriptive regulations and
   rules are inappropriate and potentially harmful. Rather, in the near
   term, case-by-case monitoring of electronic payment experiments is
   preferred.

   From a longer term perspective, however, the marketplace and industry
   self-regulation alone may not fully address all issues. For example,
   government action may be necessary to ensure the safety and soundness
   of electronic payment systems, to protect consumers, or to respond to
   important law enforcement objectives.

   The United States, through the Department of the Treasury, is working
   with other governments in international fora to study the global
   implications of emerging electronic payment systems. A number of
   organizations are already working on important aspects of electronic
   banking and payments. Their analyses will contribute to a better
   understanding of how electronic payment systems will affect global
   commerce and banking.

   The Economic Communique issued at the Lyon Summit by the G-7 Heads of
   State called for a cooperative study of the implications of new,
   sophisticated retail electronic payment systems. In response, the G-10
   deputies formed a Working Party, with representation from finance
   ministries and central banks (in consultation with law enforcement
   authorities). The Working Party is chaired by a representative from the
   U.S. Treasury Department, and tasked to produce a report that
   identifies common policy objectives among the G-10 countries and
   analyzes the national approaches to electronic commerce taken to date.

   As electronic payment systems develop, governments should work closely
   with the private sector to inform policy development, and ensure that
   governmental activities flexibly accommodate the needs of the emerging
   marketplace.

  II. Legal Issues

   3. 'UNIFORM COMMERCIAL CODE' FOR ELECTRONIC COMMERCE

   In general, parties should be able to do business with each other on
   the Internet under whatever terms and conditions they agree upon.

   Private enterprise and free markets have typically flourished, however,
   where there are predictable and widely accepted legal environments
   supporting commercial transactions. To encourage electronic commerce,
   the U.S. government should support the development of both a domestic
   and global uniform commercial legal framework that recognizes,
   facilitates, and enforces electronic transactions worldwide. Fully
   informed buyers and sellers could voluntarily agree to form a contract
   subject to this uniform legal framework, just as parties currently
   choose the body of law that will be used to interpret their contract.

   Participants in the marketplace should define and articulate most of
   the rules that will govern electronic commerce. To enable private
   entities to perform this task and to fulfill their roles adequately,
   governments should encourage the development of simple and predictable
   domestic and international rules and norms that will serve as the legal
   foundation for commercial activities in cyberspace.

   In the United States, every state government has adopted the Uniform
   Commercial Code (UCC), a codification of substantial portions of
   commercial law. The National Conference of Commissioners of Uniform
   State Law (NCCUSL) and the American Law Institute, domestic sponsors of
   the UCC, already are working to adapt the UCC to cyberspace. Private
   sector organizations, including the American Bar Association (ABA)
   along with other interest groups, are participants in this process.
   Work is also ongoing on a proposed electronic contracting and records
   act for transactions not covered by the UCC. The Administration
   supports the prompt consideration of these proposals, and the adoption
   of uniform legislation by all states. Of course, any such legislation
   will be designed to accommodate ongoing and possible future global
   initiatives.

   Internationally, the United Nations Commission on International Trade
   Law (UNCITRAL) has completed work on a model law that supports the
   commercial use of international contracts in electronic commerce. This
   model law establishes rules and norms that validate and recognize
   contracts formed through electronic means, sets default rules for
   contract formation and governance of electronic contract performance,
   defines the characteristics of a valid electronic writing and an
   original document, provides for the acceptability of electronic
   signatures for legal and commercial purposes, and supports the
   admission of computer evidence in courts and arbitration proceedings.

   The United States Government supports the adoption of principles along
   these lines by all nations as a start to defining an international set
   of uniform commercial principles for electronic commerce. We urge
   UNCITRAL, other appropriate international bodies, bar associations, and
   other private sector groups to continue their work in this area.

   The following principles should, to the extent possible, guide the
   drafting of rules governing global electronic commerce:
     * parties should be free to order the contractual relationship
       between themselves as they see fit;
     * rules should be technology-neutral (i.e., the rules should neither
       require nor assume a particular technology) and forward looking
       (i.e., the rules should not hinder the use or development of
       technologies in the future);
     * existing rules should be modified and new rules should be adopted
       only as necessary or substantially desirable to support the use of
       electronic technologies; and
     * the process should involve the high-tech commercial sector as well
       as businesses that have not yet moved online.

   With these principles in mind, UNCITRAL, UNIDROIT, and the
   International Chamber of Commerce (ICC), and others should develop
   additional model provisions and uniform fundamental principles designed
   to eliminate administrative and regulatory barriers and to facilitate
   electronic commerce by:
     * encouraging governmental recognition, acceptance and facilitation
       of electronic communications (i.e., contracts, notarized documents,
       etc.);
     * encouraging consistent international rules to support the
       acceptance of electronic signatures and other authentication
       procedures; and
     * promoting the development of adequate, efficient, and effective
       alternate dispute resolution mechanisms for global commercial
       transactions.

   The expansion of global electronic commerce also depends upon the
   participants, ability to achieve a reasonable degree of certainty
   regarding their exposure to liability for any damage or injury that
   might result from their actions. Inconsistent local tort laws, coupled
   with uncertainties regarding jurisdiction, could substantially increase
   litigation and create unnecessary costs that ultimately will be born by
   consumers. The U.S. should work closely with other nations to clarify
   applicable jurisdictional rules and to generally favor and enforce
   contract provisions that allow parties to select substantive rules
   governing liability.

   Finally, the development of global electronic commerce provides an
   opportunity to create legal rules that allow business and consumers to
   take advantage of new technology to streamline and automate functions
   now accomplished manually. For example, consideration should be given
   to establishing electronic registries.

   The Departments of Commerce and State will continue to organize U.S.
   participation in these areas with a goal of achieving substantive
   international agreement on model law within the next two years. NCCUSL
   and the American Law Institute, working with the American Bar
   Association and other interested groups, are urged to continue their
   work to develop complementary domestic and international efforts.

   4. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PROTECTION

   Commerce on the Internet often will involve the sale and licensing of
   intellectual property. To promote this commerce, sellers must know that
   their intellectual property will not be stolen and buyers must know
   that they are obtaining authentic products.

   International agreements that establish clear and effective copyright,
   patent, and trademark protection are therefore necessary to prevent
   piracy and fraud. While technology, such as encryption, can help combat
   piracy, an adequate and effective legal framework also is necessary to
   deter fraud and the theft of intellectual property, and to provide
   effective legal recourse when these crimes occur. Increased public
   education about intellectual property in the information age will also
   contribute to the successful implementation and growth of the GII.

   Copyrights

   There are several treaties that establish international norms for the
   protection of copyrights, most notably the Berne Convention for the
   Protection of Literary and Artistic Works. These treaties link nearly
   all major trading nations and provide them with a means of protecting,
   under their own laws, each other's copyrighted works and sound
   recordings.

   In December 1996, the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO)
   updated the Berne Convention and provided new protection for performers
   and producers of sound recordings by adopting two new treaties. The two
   treaties -- the WIPO Copyright Treaty and the WIPO Performances and
   Phonograms Treaty -- will greatly facilitate the commercial
   applications of online digital communications over the GII.

   Both treaties include provisions relating to technological protection,
   copyright management information, and the right of communication to the
   public, all of which are indispensable for an efficient exercise of
   rights in the digital environment. The U.S. Government recognizes
   private sector efforts to develop international and domestic standards
   in these areas. The Administration understands the sensitivities
   associated with copyright management information and technological
   protection measures, and is working to tailor implementing legislation
   accordingly.

   Both treaties also contain provisions that permit nations to provide
   for exceptions to rights in certain cases that do not conflict with a
   normal exploitation of the work and do not unreasonably prejudice the
   legitimate interests of the author (e.g., "fair use"). These provisions
   permit members to carry forward and appropriately extend into the
   digital environment limitations and exceptions in their national laws
   which have been considered acceptable under the Berne Convention. These
   provisions permit members to devise new exceptions and limitations that
   are appropriate in the digital network environment, but neither reduce
   nor extend the scope of applicability of the limitations and exceptions
   permitted by the Berne Convention.

   The Administration is drafting legislation to implement the new WIPO
   treaties, and looks forward to working with the Senate on their
   ratification.

   The two new WIPO treaties do not address issues of online service
   provider liability, leaving them to be determined by domestic
   legislation. The Administration looks forward to working with Congress
   as these issues are addressed and supports efforts to achieve an
   equitable and balanced solution that is agreeable to interested parties
   and consistent with international copyright obligations.

   The adoption of the two new WIPO treaties represents the attainment of
   one of the Administration's significant intellectual property
   objectives. The U.S. Government will continue to work for appropriate
   copyright protection for works disseminated electronically. The
   Administration's copyright-related objectives will include:
     * encouraging countries to fully and immediately implement the
       obligations contained in the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of
       Intellectual Property (TRIPS);
     * seeking immediate U.S. ratification and deposit of the instruments
       of accession to the two new WIPO treaties and implementation of the
       obligations in these treaties in a balanced and appropriate way as
       soon as possible;
     * encouraging other countries to join the two new WIPO treaties and
       to implement fully the treaty obligations as soon as possible; and
     * ensuring that U.S. trading partners establish laws and regulations
       that provide adequate and effective protection for copyrighted
       works, including motion pictures, computer software, and sound
       recordings, disseminated via the GII, and that these laws and
       regulations are fully implemented and actively enforced.

   The United States will pursue these international objectives through
   bilateral discussions and multilateral discussions at WIPO and other
   appropriate fora and will encourage private sector participation in
   these discussions.

   Sui Generis Protection of Databases

   The December 1996 WIPO Conference in Geneva did not take up a proposed
   treaty to protect the non-original elements of databases. Instead, the
   Conference called for a meeting, subsequently held, to discuss
   preliminary steps to study proposals to establish sui generis database
   protection.

   Based on the brief discussion of sui generis database protection that
   took place before and during the Diplomatic Conference, it is clear
   that more discussion of the need for and the nature of such protection
   is necessary domestically and internationally.

   The Administration will seek additional input from, among others, the
   scientific, library, and academic communities and the commercial
   sector, in order to develop U.S. policy with respect to sui generis
   database protection.

    Patents

   Development of the GII will both depend upon and stimulate innovation
   in many fields of technology, including computer software, computer
   hardware, and telecommunications. An effectively functioning patent
   system that encourages and protects patentable innovations in these
   fields is important for the overall success of commerce over the
   Internet. Consistent with this objective, the U.S. Patent and Trademark
   Office (PTO) will (1) significantly enhance its collaboration with the
   private sector to assemble a larger, more complete collection of prior
   art (both patent and non-patent publications), and provide its patent
   examiners better access to prior art in GII-related technologies; (2)
   train its patent examiners in GII-related technologies to raise and
   maintain their level of technical expertise; and (3) support
   legislative proposals for early publication of pending patent
   applications, particularly in areas involving fast moving technology.

   To create a reliable environment for electronic commerce, patent
   agreements should:
     * prohibit member countries from authorizing parties to exploit
       patented inventions related to the GII without the patent owner's
       authority (i.e., disapproval of compulsory licensing of GII-related
       technology except to remedy a practice determined after judicial or
       administrative process to be anti-competitive);
     * require member countries to provide adequate and effective
       protection for patentable subject matter important to the
       development and success of the GII; and
     * establish international standards for determining the validity of a
       patent claim.

   The United States will pursue these objectives internationally.
   Officials of the European, Japanese, and United States Patent Offices
   meet, for example, each year to foster cooperation on patent-related
   issues. The United States will recommend at the next meeting that a
   special committee be established within the next year to make
   recommendations on GII-related patent issues .

   In a separate venue, one hundred countries and international
   intergovernmental organizations participate as members of WIPO's
   permanent committee on industrial property information (PCIPI). The
   United States will attempt to establish a working group of this
   organization to address GII-related patent issues.

    Trademark and Domain Names

   Trademark rights are national in scope and conflicts may arise where
   the same or similar trademarks for similar goods or services are owned
   by different parties in different countries. Countries may also apply
   different standards for determining infringement.

   Conflicts have arisen on the GII where third parties have registered
   Internet domain names that are the same as, or similar to, registered
   or common law trademarks. An Internet domain name functions as a source
   identifier on the Internet. Ordinarily, source identifiers, like
   addresses, are not protected intellectual property (i.e., a trademark)
   per se. The use of domain names as source identifiers has burgeoned,
   however, and courts have begun to attribute intellectual property
   rights to them, while recognizing that misuse of a domain name could
   significantly infringe, dilute, and weaken valuable trademark rights.

   To date, conflicts between trademark rights and domain names have been
   resolved through negotiations and/or litigation. It may be possible to
   create a contractually based self-regulatory regime that deals with
   potential conflicts between domain name usage and trademark laws on a
   global basis without the need to litigate. This could create a more
   stable business environment on the Internet. Accordingly, the United
   States will support efforts already underway to create domestic and
   international fora for discussion of Internet-related trademark issues.
   The Administration also plans to seek public input on the resolution of
   trademark disputes in the context of domain names.

   Governance of the domain name system (DNS) raises other important
   issues unrelated to intellectual property. The Administration supports
   private efforts to address Internet governance issues including those
   related to domain names and has formed an interagency working group
   under the leadership of the Department of Commerce to study DNS issues.
   The working group will review various DNS proposals, consulting with
   interested private sector, consumer, professional, congressional and
   state government and international groups. The group will consider, in
   light of public input, (1) what contribution government might make, if
   any, to the development of a global competitive, market-based system to
   register Internet domain names, and (2) how best to foster bottom-up
   governance of the Internet.

   5. PRIVACY

   Americans treasure privacy, linking it to our concept of personal
   freedom and well-being. Unfortunately, the GII,s great promise -- that
   it facilitates the collection, re-use, and instantaneous transmission
   of information -- can, if not managed carefully, diminish personal
   privacy. It is essential, therefore, to assure personal privacy in the
   networked environment if people are to feel comfortable doing business.

   At the same time, fundamental and cherished principles like the First
   Amendment, which is an important hallmark of American democracy,
   protect the free flow of information. Commerce on the GII will thrive
   only if the privacy rights of individuals are balanced with the
   benefits associated with the free flow of information.

   In June of 1995, the Privacy Working Group of the United States
   government Information Infrastructure Task Force (IITF) issued a report
   entitled, PRIVACY AND THE NATIONAL INFORMATION INFRASTRUCTURE:
   Principles for Providing and Using Personal Information. The report
   recommends a set of principles (the "Privacy Principles") to govern the
   collection, processing, storage, and re-use of personal data in the
   information age.

   These Privacy Principles, which build on the Organization for Economic
   Cooperation and Development's GUIDELINES GOVERNING THE PROTECTION OF
   PRIVACY AND TRANSBORDER DATA FLOW OF PERSONAL DATA and incorporate
   principles of fair information practices, rest on the fundamental
   precepts of awareness and choice:
     * Data-gatherers should inform consumers what information they are
       collecting, and how they intend to use such data; and
     * Data-gatherers should provide consumers with a meaningful way to
       limit use and re-use of personal information.

   Disclosure by data-gatherers is designed to stimulate market resolution
   of privacy concerns by empowering individuals to obtain relevant
   knowledge about why information is being collected, what the
   information will be used for, what steps will be taken to protect that
   information, the consequences of providing or withholding information,
   and any rights of redress that they may have. Such disclosure will
   enable consumers to make better judgments about the levels of privacy
   available and their willingness to participate.

   In addition, the Privacy Principles identify three values to govern the
   way in which personal information is acquired, disclosed and used
   online -- information privacy, information integrity, and information
   quality. First, an individual's reasonable expectation of privacy
   regarding access to and use of, his or her personal information should
   be assured. Second, personal information should not be improperly
   altered or destroyed. And, third, personal information should be
   accurate, timely, complete, and relevant for the purposes for which it
   is provided and used.

   Under these principles, consumers are entitled to redress if they are
   harmed by improper use or disclosure of personal information or if
   decisions are based on inaccurate, outdated, incomplete, or irrelevant
   personal information.

   In April, 1997, the Information Policy Committee of the IITF issued a
   draft paper entitled Options For Promoting Privacy on the National
   Information Infrastructure. The paper surveys information practices in
   the United States and solicits public comment on the best way to
   implement the Privacy Principles. The IITF goal is to find a way to
   balance the competing values of personal privacy and the free flow of
   information in a digital democratic society.

   Meanwhile, other federal agencies have studied privacy issues in the
   context of specific industry sectors. In October 1995, for example, the
   National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA)
   issued a report entitled Privacy and the NII: Safeguarding
   Telecommunications-Related Personal Information. It explores the
   application of the Privacy Principles in the context of
   telecommunications and online services and advocates a voluntary
   framework based on notice and consent. On January 6, 1997, the FTC
   issued a staff report entitled Public Workshop on Consumer Privacy on
   the Global Information Infrastructure. The report, which focuses on the
   direct marketing and advertising industries, concludes that notice,
   choice, security, and access are recognized as necessary elements of
   fair information practices online. In June of 1997, the FTC held four
   days of hearings on technology tools and industry self-regulation
   regimes designed to enhance personal privacy on the Internet.

   The Administration supports private sector efforts now underway to
   implement meaningful, consumer-friendly, self-regulatory privacy
   regimes. These include mechanisms for facilitating awareness and the
   exercise of choice online, evaluating private sector adoption of and
   adherence to fair information practices, and dispute resolution.

   The Administration also anticipates that technology will offer
   solutions to many privacy concerns in the online environment, including
   the appropriate use of anonymity. If privacy concerns are not addressed
   by industry through self-regulation and technology, the Administration
   will face increasing pressure to play a more direct role in
   safeguarding consumer choice regarding privacy online.

   The Administration is particularly concerned about the use of
   information gathered from children, who may lack the cognitive ability
   to recognize and appreciate privacy concerns. Parents should be able to
   choose whether or not personally identifiable information is collected
   from or about their children. We urge industry, consumer, and
   child-advocacy groups working together to use a mix of technology,
   self-regulation, and education to provide solutions to the particular
   dangers arising in this area and to facilitate parental choice. This
   problem warrants prompt attention. Otherwise, government action may be
   required.

   Privacy concerns are being raised in many countries around the world,
   and some countries have enacted laws, implemented industry
   self-regulation, or instituted administrative solutions designed to
   safeguard their citizens' privacy. Disparate policies could emerge that
   might disrupt transborder data flows. For example, the European Union
   (EU) has adopted a Directive that prohibits the transfer of personal
   data to countries that, in its view, do not extend adequate privacy
   protection to EU citizens.

   To ensure that differing privacy policies around the world do not
   impede the flow of data on the Internet, the United States will engage
   its key trading partners in discussions to build support for
   industry-developed solutions to privacy problems and for market driven
   mechanisms to assure customer satisfaction about how private data is
   handled.

   The United States will continue policy discussions with the EU nations
   and the European Commission to increase understanding about the U.S.
   approach to privacy and to assure that the criteria they use for
   evaluating adequacy are sufficiently flexible to accommodate our
   approach. These discussions are led by the Department of Commerce,
   through NTIA, and the State Department, and include the Executive
   Office of the President, the Treasury Department, the Federal Trade
   Commission (FTC) and other relevant federal agencies. NTIA is also
   working with the private sector to assess the impact that the
   implementation of the EU Directive could have on the United States.

   The United States also will enter into a dialogue with trading partners
   on these issues through existing bilateral fora as well as through
   regional fora such as the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC)
   forum, the Summit of the Americas, the North American Free Trade
   Agreement (NAFTA), and the Inter-American Telecommunications Commission
   (CITEL) of the Organization of American States, and broader
   multilateral organizations.

   The Administration considers data protection critically important. We
   believe that private efforts of industry working in cooperation with
   consumer groups are preferable to government regulation, but if
   effective privacy protection cannot be provided in this way, we will
   reevaluate this policy.

   6. SECURITY

   The GII must be secure and reliable. If Internet users do not have
   confidence that their communications and data are safe from
   unauthorized access or modification, they will be unlikely to use the
   Internet on a routine basis for commerce. A secure GII requires:
     * (1) secure and reliable telecommunications networks;
       (2) effective means for protecting the information systems attached
       to those networks; (3) effective means for authenticating and
       ensuring confidentiality of electronic information to protect data
       from unauthorized use; and
       (4) well trained GII users who understand how to protect their
       systems and their data.

   There is no single "magic" technology or technique that can ensure that
   the GII will be secure and reliable. Accomplishing that goal requires a
   range of technologies (encryption, authentication, password controls,
   firewalls, etc.) and effective, consistent use of those technologies,
   all supported globally by trustworthy key and security management
   infrastructures.

   Of particular importance is the development of trusted certification
   services that support the digital signatures that will permit users to
   know whom they are communicating with on the Internet. Both signatures
   and confidentiality rely on the use of cryptographic keys. To promote
   the growth of a trusted electronic commerce environment, the
   Administration is encouraging the development of a voluntary,
   market-driven key management infrastructure that will support
   authentication, integrity, and confidentiality.

   Encryption products protect the confidentiality of stored data and
   electronic communications by making them unreadable without a
   decryption key. But strong encryption is a double-edged sword. Law
   abiding citizens can use strong encryption to protect their trade
   secrets and personal records. But those trade secrets and personal
   records could be lost forever if the decrypt key is lost. Depending
   upon the value of the information, the loss could be quite substantial.
   Encryption can also be used by criminals and terrorists to reduce law
   enforcement capabilities to read their communications. Key recovery
   based encryption can help address some of these issues.

   In promoting robust security needed for electronic commerce, the
   Administration has already taken steps that will enable trust in
   encryption and provide the safeguards that users and society will need.
   The Administration, in partnership with industry, is taking steps to
   promote the development of market-driven standards, public-key
   management infrastructure services and key recoverable encryption
   products. Additionally, the Administration has liberalized export
   controls for commercial encryption products while protecting public
   safety and national security interests.

   The Administration is also working with Congress to ensure legislation
   is enacted that would facilitate development of voluntary key
   management infrastructures and would govern the release of recovery
   information to law enforcement officials pursuant to lawful authority.

   The U.S. government will work internationally to promote development of
   market-driven key management infrastructure with key recovery.
   Specifically, the U.S. has worked closely within the OECD to develop
   international guidelines for encryption policies and will continue to
   promote the development of policies to provide a predictable and secure
   environment for global electronic commerce.

  III. Market Access Issues

   7. TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

   Global electronic commerce depends upon a modern, seamless, global
   telecommunications network and upon the computers and information
   appliances that connect to it. Unfortunately, in too many countries,
   telecommunications policies are hindering the development of advanced
   digital networks. Customers find that telecommunications services often
   are too expensive, bandwidth is too limited, and services are
   unavailable or unreliable. Likewise, many countries maintain trade
   barriers to imported information technology, making it hard for both
   merchants and customers to purchase the computers and information
   systems they need to participate in electronic commerce.

   In order to spur the removal of barriers, in March 1994, Vice President
   Gore spoke to the World Telecommunications Development Conference in
   Buenos Aires. He articulated several principles that the U.S. believes
   should be the foundation for government policy, including:
     * (1) encouraging private sector investment by privatizing
       government-controlled telecommunications companies;
       (2) promoting and preserving competition by introducing competition
       to monopoly phone markets, ensuring interconnection at fair prices,
       opening markets to foreign investment, and enforcing anti-trust
       safeguards;
       (3) guaranteeing open access to networks on a non-discriminatory
       basis, so that GII users have access to the broadest range of
       information and services; and
       (4) implementing, by an independent regulator, pro-competitive and
       flexible regulation that keeps pace with technological development.

   Domestically, the Administration recognizes that there are various
   constraints in the present network that may impede the evolution of
   services requiring higher bandwidth. Administration initiatives include
   Internet II, or Next Generation Internet. In addition, the FCC has
   undertaken several initiatives designed to stimulate bandwidth
   expansion, especially to residential and small/home office customers.

   The goal of the United States will be to ensure that online service
   providers can reach end-users on reasonable and nondiscriminatory terms
   and conditions. Genuine market opening will lead to increased
   competition, improved telecommunications infrastructures, more customer
   choice, lower prices and increased and improved services.

   Areas of concern include:
     * Leased lines: Data networks of most online service providers are
       constructed with leased lines that must be obtained from national
       telephone companies, often monopolies or governmental entities. In
       the absence of effective competition, telephone companies may
       impose artificially inflated leased line prices and usage
       restrictions that impede the provision of service by online service
       providers.
     * Local loops pricing: To reach their subscribers, online service
       providers often have no choice but to purchase local exchange
       services from monopoly or government-owned telephone companies.
       These services also are often priced at excessive rates, inflating
       the cost of data services to customers.
     * Interconnection and unbundling: Online service providers must be
       able to interconnect with the networks of incumbent
       telecommunication companies so that information can pass seamlessly
       between all users of the network. Monopolies or dominant telephone
       companies often price interconnection well above cost, and refuse
       to interconnect because of alleged concerns about network
       compatibility or absence of need for other providers.
     * Attaching equipment to the network: Over the years, some
       telecommunication providers have used their monopoly power to
       restrict the connection of communication or technology devices to
       the network. Even when the monopoly has been broken, a host of
       unnecessary burdensome "type acceptance" practices have been used
       to retard competition and make it difficult for consumers to
       connect.
     * Internet voice and multimedia: Officials of some nations claim that
       "real time" services provided over the Internet are "like services"
       to traditionally regulated voice telephony and broadcasting, and
       therefore should be subject to the same regulatory restrictions
       that apply to those traditional services. In some countries, these
       providers must be licensed, as a way to control both the carriage
       and content offered. Such an approach could hinder the development
       of new technologies and new services.

   In addition, countries have different levels of telecommunications
   infrastructure development, which may hinder the global provision and
   use of some Internet-based services. The Administration believes that
   the introduction of policies promoting foreign investment, competition,
   regulatory flexibility and open access will support infrastructure
   development and the creation of more data-friendly networks.

   To address these issues, the Administration successfully concluded the
   WTO Basic Telecommunications negotiations, which will ensure global
   competition in the provision of basic telecommunication services and
   will address the many underlying issues affecting online service
   providers. During those negotiations, the U.S. succeeded in ensuring
   that new regulatory burdens would not be imposed upon online service
   providers that would stifle the deployment of new technologies and
   services.

   As the WTO Agreement is implemented, the Administration will seek to
   ensure that new rules of competition in the global communications
   marketplace will be technology neutral and will not hinder the
   development of electronic commerce. In particular, rules for licensing
   new technologies and new services must be sufficiently flexible to
   accommodate the changing needs of consumers while allowing governments
   to protect important public interest objectives like universal service.
   In this context, rules to promote such public interest objectives
   should not fall disproportionately on any one segment of the
   telecommunications industry or on new entrants.

   The Administration will also seek effective implementation of the
   Information Technology Agreement concluded by the members of the WTO in
   March 1997, which is designed to remove tariffs on almost all types of
   information technology. Building on this success, and with the
   encouragement of U.S. companies, the administration is developing plans
   for ITA II, in which it will to seek to remove remaining tariffs on,
   and existing non-tariff barriers to, information technology goods and
   services. In addition, the Administration is committed to finding other
   ways to streamline requirements to demonstrate product conformity,
   including through Mutual Recognition Agreements (MRAS) that can
   eliminate the need for a single product to be certified by different
   standards laboratories across national borders.

   Bilateral exchanges with individual foreign governments, regional fora
   such as APEC and CITEL, and multilateral fora such as the OECD and ITU,
   and various other fora (i.e. international alliances of private
   businesses, the International Organization of Standardization [ISO],
   the International Electrotechnical Commission [IEC]), also will be used
   for international discussions on telecommunication-related Internet
   issues and removing trade barriers that inhibit the export of
   information technology. These issues include the terms and conditions
   governing the exchange of online traffic, addressing, and reliability.
   In all fora, U.S. Government positions that might influence Internet
   pricing, service delivery options or technical standards will reflect
   the principles established in this paper and U.S. Government
   representatives will survey the work of their study groups to ensure
   that this is the case.

   In addition, many Internet governance issues will best be dealt with by
   means of private, open standards processes and contracts involving
   participants from both government and the private sector. The U.S.
   government will support industry initiatives aimed at achieving the
   important goals outlined in this paper.

   8. CONTENT

   The U.S. government supports the broadest possible free flow of
   information across international borders. This includes most
   informational material now accessible and transmitted through the
   Internet, including through World Wide Web pages, news and other
   information services, virtual shopping malls, and entertainment
   features, such as audio and video products, and the arts. This
   principle extends to information created by commercial enterprises as
   well as by schools, libraries, governments and other nonprofit
   entities.

   In contrast to traditional broadcast media, the Internet promises users
   greater opportunity to shield themselves and their children from
   content they deem offensive or inappropriate. New technology, for
   example, may enable parents to block their children's access to
   sensitive information or confine their children to pre-approved
   websites.

   To the extent, then, that effective filtering technology becomes
   available, content regulations traditionally imposed on radio and
   television would not need to be applied to the Internet. In fact,
   unnecessary regulation could cripple the growth and diversity of the
   Internet.

   The Administration therefore supports industry self-regulation,
   adoption of competing ratings systems, and development of easy-to-use
   technical solutions (e.g., filtering technologies and age verification
   systems) to assist in screening information online.

   There are four priority areas of concern:
     * Regulation of content. Companies wishing to do business over the
       Internet, and to provide access to the Internet (including U.S.
       online service providers with foreign affiliates or joint ventures)
       are concerned about liability based on the different policies of
       every country through which their information may travel.
       Countries that are considering or have adopted laws to restrict
       access to certain types of content through the Internet emphasize
       different concerns as a result of cultural, social, and political
       difference. These different laws can impede electronic commerce in
       the global environment.
       The Administration is concerned about Internet regulation of this
       sort, and will develop an informal dialogue with key trading
       partners on public policy issues such as hate speech, violence,
       sedition, pornography and other content to ensure that differences
       in national regulation, especially those undertaken to foster
       cultural identity, do not serve as disguised trade barriers.
     * Foreign content quotas. Some countries currently require that a
       specific proportion of traditional broadcast transmission time be
       devoted to "domestically produced" content. Problems could arise on
       the Internet if the definition of "broadcasting" is changed to
       extend these current regulations to "new services." Countries also
       might decide to regulate Internet content and establish
       restrictions under administrative authority, rather than under
       broadcast regulatory structures.
       The Administration will pursue a dialogue with other nations on how
       to promote content diversity, including cultural and linguistic
       diversity, without limiting content. These discussions could
       consider promotion of cultural identity through subsidy programs
       that rely solely on general tax revenues and that are implemented
       in a nondiscriminatory manner.
     * Regulation of advertising. Advertising will allow the new
       interactive media to offer more affordable products and services to
       a wider, global audience. Some countries stringently restrict the
       language, amount, frequency, duration, and type of tele-shopping
       and advertising spots used by advertisers. In principle, the United
       States does not favor such regulations. While recognizing
       legitimate cultural and social concerns, these concerns should not
       be invoked to justify unnecessarily burdensome regulation of the
       Internet.
       There are laws in many countries around the world that require
       support for advertising claims. Advertising industry
       self-regulation also exists in many countries around the globe.
       Truthful and accurate advertising should be the cornerstone of
       advertising on all media, including the Internet.
       A strong body of cognitive and behavioral research demonstrates
       that children are particularly vulnerable to advertising. As a
       result, the U.S. has well established rules (self-regulatory and
       otherwise) for protecting children from certain harmful advertising
       practices. The Administration will work with industry and
       children's advocates to ensure that these protections are
       translated to and implemented appropriately in the online media
       environment.
       The rules of the "country-of-origin" should serve as the basis for
       controlling Internet advertising to alleviate national legislative
       roadblocks and trade barriers.
     * Regulation to prevent fraud. Recently, there have been a number of
       cases where fraudulent information on companies and their stocks,
       and phony investment schemes have been broadcast on the Internet.
       The appropriate federal agencies (i.e., Federal Trade Commission
       and the Securities and Exchange Commission) are determining whether
       new regulations are needed to prevent fraud over the Internet.
       In order to realize the commercial and cultural potential of the
       Internet, consumers must have confidence that the goods and
       services offered are fairly represented, that they will get what
       they pay for, and that recourse or redress will be available if
       they do not. This is an area where government action is
       appropriate.

   The Administration will explore opportunities for international
   cooperation to protect consumers and to prosecute false, deceptive, and
   fraudulent commercial practices in cyberspace.

   Federal agencies such as the Department of State, U.S. Trade
   Representative (USTR), the Commerce Department (NTIA), the FTC, the
   Office of Consumer Affairs and others have already engaged in efforts
   to promote such positions, through both bilateral and multilateral
   channels, including through the OECD, the G-7 Information Society and
   Development Conference, the Latin American Telecommunications Summits,
   and the Summit of the Americas process, as well as APEC
   Telecommunications Ministerials. All agencies participating in such
   fora will focus on pragmatic solutions based upon the principles in
   this paper to issues related to content control.

   9. TECHNICAL STANDARDS

   Standards are critical to the long term commercial success of the
   Internet as they can allow products and services from different vendors
   to work together. They also encourage competition and reduce
   uncertainty in the global marketplace. Premature standardization,
   however, can "lock in" outdated technology. Standards also can be
   employed as de facto non-tariff trade barriers, to "lock out"
   non-indigenous businesses from a particular national market.

   The United States believes that the marketplace, not governments,
   should determine technical standards and other mechanisms for
   interoperability. Technology is moving rapidly and government attempts
   to establish technical standards to govern the Internet would only risk
   inhibiting technological innovation. The United States considers it
   unwise and unnecessary for governments to mandate standards for
   electronic commerce. Rather, we urge industry driven multilateral fora
   to consider technical standards in this area.

   To ensure the growth of global electronic commerce over the Internet,
   standards will be needed to assure reliability, interoperability, ease
   of use and scalability in areas such as:
     * electronic payments;
     * security (confidentiality, authentication, data integrity, access
       control, non-repudiation);
     * security services infrastructure (e.g., public key certificate
       authorities);
     * electronic copyright management systems;
     * video and data-conferencing;
     * high-speed network technologies (e.g., Asynchronous Transfer Mode,
       Synchronous Digital Hierarchy); and
     * digital object and data interchange.

   There need not be one standard for every product or service associated
   with the GII, and technical standards need not be mandated. In some
   cases, multiple standards will compete for marketplace acceptance. In
   other cases, different standards will be used in different
   circumstances.

   The prevalence of voluntary standards on the Internet, and the medium's
   consensus-based process of standards development and acceptance are
   stimulating its rapid growth. These standards flourish because of a
   non-bureaucratic system of development managed by technical
   practitioners working through various organizations. These
   organizations require demonstrated deployment of systems incorporating
   a given standard prior to formal acceptance, but the process
   facilitates rapid deployment of standards and can accommodate evolving
   standards as well. Only a handful of countries allow private sector
   standards development; most rely on government-mandated solutions,
   causing these nations to fall behind the technological cutting edge and
   creating non-tariff trade barriers.

   Numerous private sector bodies have contributed to the process of
   developing voluntary standards that promote interoperability. The
   United States has encouraged the development of voluntary standards
   through private standards organizations, consortia, testbeds and R&D
   activities. The U.S. government also has adopted a set of principles to
   promote acceptance of domestic and international voluntary standards.

   While no formal government-sponsored negotiations are called for at
   this time, the United States will use various fora (i.e., international
   alliances of private businesses, the International Organization for
   Standardization [ISO], the International Electrotechnical Commission
   [IEC], International Telecommunications Union [ITU], etc.) to
   discourage the use of standards to erect barriers to free trade on the
   developing GII. The private sector should assert global leadership to
   address standards setting needs. The United States will work through
   intergovernmental organizations as needed to monitor and support
   private sector leadership.

   A COORDINATED STRATEGY

   The success of electronic commerce will require an effective
   partnership between the private and public sectors, with the private
   sector in the lead. Government participation must be coherent and
   cautious, avoiding the contradictions and confusions that can sometimes
   arise when different governmental agencies individually assert
   authority too vigorously and operate without coordination.

   The variety of issues being raised, the interaction among them, and the
   disparate fora in which they are being addressed will necessitate a
   coordinated, targeted governmental approach to avoid inefficiencies and
   duplication in developing and reviewing policy.

   An interagency team will continue to meet in order to monitor progress
   and update this strategy as events unfold. Sufficient resources will be
   committed to allow rapid and effective policy implementation.

   The process of further developing and implementing the strategy set
   forth in this paper is as important as the content of the paper itself.
   The U.S. Government will consult openly and often, with groups
   representing industry, consumers and Internet users, Congress, state
   and local governments, foreign governments, and international
   organizations as we seek to update and implement this paper in the
   coming years.

   Private sector leadership accounts for the explosive growth of the
   Internet today, and the success of electronic commerce will depend on
   continued private sector leadership. Accordingly, the Administration
   also will encourage the creation of private fora to take the lead in
   areas requiring self-regulation such as privacy, content ratings, and
   consumer protection and in areas such as standards development,
   commercial code, and fostering interoperability.

   The strategy outlined in this paper will be updated and new releases
   will be issued as changes in technology and the marketplace teach us
   more about how to set the optimal environment in which electronic
   commerce and community can flourish.

   There is a great opportunity for commercial activity on the Internet.
   If the private sector and governments act appropriately, this
   opportunity can be realized for the benefit of all people.
