http://www.sco.ca.gov/eo/coinfo/connell.htm

   Office of the Controller, State of California
   Home Page

                          Portrait Kathleen Connell


             KATHLEEN CONNELL
   Controller of the State of California

                           PROFILE AND INITIATIVES

   Kathleen Connell was elected California's Controller in 1994, bringing
   with her a strong background in business, education and finance. In
   1998 she was overwhelmingly re-elected, receiving more votes than any
   other candidate in the nation -- carrying 55 out of California's 58
   counties.

   Prior to being elected, Connell ran her own investment banking firm and
   served as vice president and director for Chemical Bank of New York.
   She received her Ph.D. from UCLA and taught graduate level courses at
   the UCLA and UC Berkeley business schools. In addition to her academic
   credentials, Connell holds six securities licenses from the Securities
   and Exchange Commission. In 1996, Time named Connell one of the
   nation's "Ten Rising Stars" of the Democratic Party.

   Good Government

   Connell initiated and completed a successful performance audit of the
   Controller's Office resulting in operational savings of $25 million and
   a streamlining of staff by 15% during her first three years in office.

   Completed successful audits of Medi-Cal and other State programs,
   identifying more than $1.2 billion in potential savings. Her Medi-Cal
   audits alone, identified more than $800 million in savings.

   Initiated, for the first time ever, performance audits of the Franchise
   Tax Board and Board of Equalization -- California's two tax agencies.

   Designed an interactive Internet database that allows residents to
   instantly determine if the state is holding unclaimed assets for
   themselves or heirs.

   Convened a "SMART" (State Municipal Advisory Reform Team) taskforce to
   assist California's local governments identify reliable sources of
   revenue to help meet local demands.

   Created an Internet link to a Holocaust survivors processing office to
   assist individuals who may have claims to property being held by Swiss
   banks.

   Reformed travel, expense and perk policies of the Public Employees'
   Retirement System (PERS) Board.

   Created a blue ribbon Health Executive Advisory Review Team (HEART)
   consisting of health care industry leaders, medical and public health
   scholars, physicians and patient advocates to help create a cutting
   edge health care plan for more than 600,000 active and retired
   teachers.

   Completed successful local audits of school districts and special
   districts to identify waste and fraud and to offer recommendations to
   better utilize resources.

   Facilitated the flow of information from Controller's Office by
   initiating quarterly reports on the state's economy, budget and
   emerging industries.

   Tax and Investment Restructuring

   Spearheaded a change in the State Teachers' Retirement System's (STRS)
   investment strategy to adopt an asset allocation policy weighted more
   heavily in stocks, which resulted in a fully funded retirement system
   -- and will save the state $715 million in the 1999/2000 budget year.

   Led the effort to eliminate so-called "nuisance taxes" for a variety of
   industries, including technology (integrated circuit boards);
   entertainment (cartoons and comic strips); containers for packing and
   shipping; ATM service fees; oak and wine and brandy barrels; and
   livestock.

   As Chair of the Franchise Tax Board, oversaw the implementation of
   customer service improvements, including expedited transfers of state
   payments/tax returns and a reduction in call wait time from 6- minutes
   to 3-minutes.

   Legislative Initiatives

   Successfully implemented a program at PERS for complete coverage of
   bone marrow transplant treatment for victims of breast cancer.
   Sponsored AB 760, legislation to provide women access to Autologous
   Bone Marrow Transplantation (ABMT) treatments statewide, a potentially
   life saving therapy for women with breast cancer.

   Sponsored AB 1393, the Performance Audit and Cost Efficiency Act
   (PACE), to provide for performance audits of all state agencies and
   departments.

   Sponsored SB 1304, Zero-Based Budgeting legislation, a redesign of the
   annual state agency and department budgeting approach which demands
   accountability and detailing of budget expenditures by departments and
   the legislative allocation process.

   Sponsored SB 1193, a bill that would lower the maximum percentage of
   lottery proceeds that can be spent on administrative expenses from 16%
   to 12% by Fiscal Year 2000-01 -- resulting in $100 million in
   additional revenues which could be spent on schools.

   Sponsored AB 784, a bill that cracks down on Medi-Cal fraud and abuse
   in California -- which costs the state over $1 billion annually.

   Sponsored AB 874, the California Year 2000 Fairness and Responsibility
   Act, a Y2K compliance bill that would limit the causes of action which
   could be brought against a company or government agency which met
   specific criteria for complying hardware and software to meet the Y2K
   bug.

   Sponsored AB 136, a bill that would accelerate the use of drugs
   intended to treat life-threatening and severely-debilitating illnesses
   for patients who have no other viable options.

   Sponsored AB 2, a bill that would allow individuals who receive
   graduate education paid for by their employer to deduct the cost of
   tuition from their taxable income.

   Controller's Office Initiatives

   Instituted a World Wide Web page for the Controller's Office and other
   technological advances to improve the communications apparatus of the
   Controller's Office.

   Saved $114,000 by continuing to use the previous Controller's
   stationery.

                               MAILING ADDRESS
                    P.O. Box 942850, Sacramento, CA 94250
                                 SACRAMENTO
             300 Capitol Mall, Suite 1850, Sacramento, CA 95814
                               (916) 445-2636
                                 LOS ANGELES
           600 Corporate Pointe, Suite 1150, Culver City, CA 90230
                               (310) 342-5678
