http://www.chattanooga.gov/Finance/

   [topbanner2.gif]



   Mayor Bob Corker
   Biography
   Platform Issues
   Speeches
   Press Releases
   Mayor's Staff
   City Council
   City Code & Charter
   Ordinances & Resolutions
   Meetings
   Members
   District Lookup
   City Court
   Judge
   Court Clerk
   Violations & Fines
   City Services
   Neighborhood Services
   Parks, Recreation,
   Arts & Culture
   Public Works
   General Government
   Community Development
   Finance
   Information Services
   Personnel
   Property Tax
   Purchasing
   Emergency Services
   Fire Department
   Police Department
   About Chattanooga
   FAQs
   Links
   Photos
   Site Map
   What's New...

                             Finance Department


   The Department of Finance is committed to the prudent management of the
   City's fiscal affairs in a professional and efficient environment while
   providing accurate information and objective recommendations to the
   Mayor, the City Council and Department Administrators and achieving
   full accountability to the citizens of Chattanooga. The Finance
   Department also provides services that support and serve City
   Government, County Government, Non-Profit Agencies, and Individual
   Citizens.

               Addresses & Contacts for the Finance Department

   Annual budget and financial reports are available online, or you may
   request a copy by mail. To view the reports online, or find out how to
   receive a copy via mail click here.

   Finance Operations: Performs City's financial functions involving
   payrolls, accounts payable, accounting and official financial
   reporting.

   Budget Office: Performs City's budget functions involving preparation,
   monitoring and reporting of operating and capital budgets.

   City Treasurer's Office: Handles the collection of current and
   delinquent real and personal property taxes in addition to storm water
   fees and handles the collection of business tax and gross receipts tax
   from each business inside the City of Chattanooga.

      Click Here to visit our property tax information
      look up page.

      Click Here to visit our property tax FAQS page


      Click Here to visit our business license FAQS
      page


      Click Here to download business license
      documents

   City Court Clerk: Chattanooga City Court, also known as municipal
   court, has jurisdiction in cases involving violations of city
   ordinances.

   Information Services: Enhances the City of Chattanooga's business of
   governing with cost-effective information management and systems.

   Purchasing: Is the 'buyer' for services and products for City
   Government, Chattanooga Hamilton County Bicentennial Library, Scenic
   Cities Beautiful, Air Pollution Control Bureau and the Regional
   Planning Agency. Constantly comparing prices and reviewing proposals to
   ensure that dollars spent for goods and services are spent wisely.

   Building Maintenance: Works around the clock to insure that the public
   and employees can conduct their business in clean, safe and comfortable
   environments.

   Radio & Electronics Shop: Installs and maintains all radio
   communications for the 911 Center, CARTA, the Airport, Police and Fire
   Departments, Public Works and Parks and Recreation. Employees in this
   division are on call twenty-four hours a day to insure that the lines
   of communication are always open, providing routine and emergency
   services for the entire community.

   Real Estate: Responsibilities include real estate sales and
   acquisitions, leased property management, maintenance and redevelopment
   of City owned real estate.

   Fleet Services: The City's fleet consists of cars, vans, dump trucks,
   fire trucks, busses, boats and ultra light planes. This division
   operates three fully computerized fuel centers, a tire center and two
   vehicle maintenance facilities, employing the highest skilled mechanics
   in the region.



            Home  Local Events  Links  Search  Photos  Contact Us
