http://www.ftc.gov/ogc/coppa1.htm

              Children's Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998

               TITLE XIII-CHILDREN'S ONLINE PRIVACY PROTECTION

   SEC. 1301. SHORT TITLE.

   This title may be cited as the "Children's Online Privacy Protection
   Act of 1998".

   SEC. 1302. DEFINITIONS.

   In this title:

   (1) CHILD.—The term "child" means an individual under the age of 13.

   (2) OPERATOR.—The term "operator"—
   (A) means any person who operates a website located on the Internet or
       an online service and who collects or maintains personal
       information from or about the users of or visitors to such website
       or online service, or on whose behalf such information is collected
       or maintained, where such website or online service is operated for
       commercial purposes, including any person offering products or
       services for sale through that website or online service, involving
       commerce—

   (i) among the several States or with 1 or more foreign nations;
       (ii) in any territory of the United States or in the District of
       Columbia, or between any such territory and—

   (I) another such territory; or
       (II) any State or foreign nation; or

   (iii) between the District of Columbia and any State, territory, or
   foreign nation; but

   (B) does not include any nonprofit entity that would otherwise be
   exempt from coverage under section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission
   Act (15 U.S.C. 45).

       (3) COMMISSION.—The term "Commission" means the Federal Trade
                                 Commission.

   (4) DISCLOSURE.—The term "disclosure" means, with respect to personal
                                information—
      (A) the release of personal information collected from a child in
       identifiable form by an operator for any purpose, except where such
         information is provided to a person other than the operator who
         provides support for the internal operations of the website and
        does not disclose or use that information for any other purpose;
                                       and
       (B) making personal information collected from a child by a website
         or online service directed to children or with actual knowledge
           that such information was collected from a child, publicly
       available in identifiable form, by any means including by a public
                   posting, through the Internet, or through—

                        (i) a home page of a website;
                             (ii) a pen pal service;
                        (iii) an electronic mail service;
                            (iv) a message board; or
                                (v) a chat room.

   (5) FEDERAL AGENCY.—The term "Federal agency" means an agency, as that
      term is defined in section 551(1) of title 5, United States Code.

     (6) INTERNET.—The term "Internet" means collectively the myriad of
     computer and telecommunications facilities, including equipment and
      operating software, which comprise the interconnected world-wide
     network of networks that employ the Transmission Control Protocol/
    Internet Protocol, or any predecessor or successor protocols to such
     protocol, to communicate information of all kinds by wire or radio.

          (7) PARENT.—The term "parent" includes a legal guardian.

      (8) PERSONAL INFORMATION.—The term "personal information" means
     individually identifiable information about an individual collected
                             online, including—
                         (A) a first and last name;
       (B) a home or other physical address including street name and name
                               of a city or town;
                             (C) an e-mail address;
                             (D) a telephone number;
                          (E) a Social Security number;
       (F) any other identifier that the Commission determines permits the
           physical or online contacting of a specific individual; or
        (G) information concerning the child or the parents of that child
        that the website collects online from the child and combines with
                   an identifier described in this paragraph.

   (9) VERIFIABLE PARENTAL CONSENT.—The term "verifiable parental consent"
      means any reasonable effort (taking into consideration available
        technology), including a request for authorization for future
   collection, use, and disclosure described in the notice, to ensure that
       a parent of a child receives notice of the operator's personal
    information collection, use, and disclosure practices, and authorizes
       the collection, use, and disclosure, as applicable, of personal
     information and the subsequent use of that information before that
                  information is collected from that child.

           (10) WEBSITE OR ONLINE SERVICE DIRECTED TO CHILDREN.—
      (A) IN GENERAL.—The term "website or online service directed to
                                children" means—

       (i) a commercial website or online service that is targeted to
                                  children; or
       (ii) that portion of a commercial website or online service that is
                              targeted to children.

   (B) LIMITATION.—A commercial website or online service, or a portion of
   a commercial website or online service, shall not be deemed directed to
     children solely for referring or linking to a commercial website or
      online service directed to children by using information location
    tools, including a directory, index, reference, pointer, or hypertext
                                    link.

   (11) PERSON.—The term "person" means any individual, partnership,
   corporation, trust, estate, cooperative, association, or other entity.

   (12) ONLINE CONTACT INFORMATION.—The term "online contact information"
   means an e-mail address or an-other substantially similar identifier
   that permits direct contact with a person online.

   SEC. 1303. REGULATION OF UNFAIR AND DECEPTIVE ACTS AND PRACTICES IN
   CONNECTION WITH THE COLLECTION AND USE OF PERSONAL INFORMATION FROM AND
   ABOUT CHILDREN ON THE INTERNET.
   (a) ACTS PROHIBITED.—

   (1) IN GENERAL.—It is unlawful for an operator of a website or online
       service directed to children, or any operator that has actual
       knowledge that it is collecting personal information from a child,
       to collect personal information from a child in a manner that
       violates the regulations prescribed under subsection (b).
       (2) DISCLOSURE TO PARENT PROTECTED.—Notwithstanding paragraph (1),
       neither an operator of such a website or online service nor the
       operator's agent shall be held to be liable under any Federal or
       State law for any disclosure made in good faith and following
       reasonable procedures in responding to a request for disclosure of
       per-sonal information under subsection (b)(1)(B)(iii) to the parent
       of a child.

   (b) REGULATIONS.—
   (1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment
       of this Act, the Commission shall promulgate under section 553 of
       title 5, United States Code, regulations that—

   (A) require the operator of any website or online service directed to
       children that collects personal information from children or the
       operator of a website or online service that has actual knowledge
       that it is collecting personal information from a child—

   (i) to provide notice on the website of what information is collected
       from children by the operator, how the operator uses such
       information, and the operator's disclosure practices for such
       information; and
       (ii) to obtain verifiable parental consent for the collection, use,
       or disclosure of personal information from children;

   (B) require the operator to provide, upon request of a parent under
   this subparagraph whose child has provided personal information to that
   website or online service, upon proper identification of that parent,
   to such par-ent—
   (i) a description of the specific types of personal information
       collected from the child by that operator;
       (ii) the opportunity at any time to refuse to permit the operator's
       further use or maintenance in retrievable form, or future online
       collection, of personal information from that child; and
       (iii) notwithstanding any other provision of law, a means that is
       reasonable under the circumstances for the parent to obtain any
       personal information collected from that child;

   (C) prohibit conditioning a child's participation in a game, the
   offering of a prize, or another activity on the child disclosing more
   personal information than is reasonably necessary to participate in
   such activity; and

   (D) require the operator of such a website or online service to
   establish and maintain reasonable procedures to protect the
   confidentiality, security, and integrity of personal information
   collected from children.

   (2) WHEN CONSENT NOT REQUIRED.—The regulations shall provide that
   verifiable parental consent under paragraph (1)(A)(ii) is not required
   in the case of—
   (A) online contact information collected from a child that is used only
       to respond directly on a one-time basis to a specific request from
       the child and is not used to recontact the child and is not
       maintained in retrievable form by the operator;
       (B) a request for the name or online contact information of a
       parent or child that is used for the sole purpose of obtaining
       parental consent or providing notice under this section and where
       such information is not maintained in retrievable form by the
       operator if parental consent is not obtained after a reasonable
       time;
       (C) online contact information collected from a child that is used
       only to respond more than once directly to a specific request from
       the child and is not used to recontact the child beyond the scope
       of that request—

   (i) if, before any additional response after the initial response to
       the child, the operator uses reasonable efforts to provide a parent
       notice of the online contact information collected from the child,
       the purposes for which it is to be used, and an opportunity for the
       parent to request that the operator make no further use of the
       information and that it not be maintained in retrievable form; or
       (ii) without notice to the parent in such circumstances as the
       Commission may determine are appropriate, taking into consideration
       the benefits to the child of access to information and services,
       and risks to the security and privacy of the child, in regulations
       promulgated under this subsection;

   (D) the name of the child and online contact information (to the extent
   reasonably necessary to protect the safety of a child participant on
   the site)—
   (i) used only for the purpose of protecting such safety;
       (ii) not used to recontact the child or for any other purpose; and
       (iii) not disclosed on the site, if the operator uses reasonable
       efforts to provide a parent notice of the name and online contact
       information collected from the child, the purposes for which it is
       to be used, and an opportunity for the parent to request that the
       operator make no further use of the information and that it not be
       maintained in retrievable form; or

   (E) the collection, use, or dissemination of such information by the
   operator of such a website or online service necessary—
   (i) to protect the security or integrity of its website;
       (ii) to take precautions against liability;
       (iii) to respond to judicial process; or
       (iv) to the extent permitted under other provisions of law, to
       provide information to law enforcement agencies or for an
       investigation on a matter related to public safety. 1815

   (3) TERMINATION OF SERVICE.—The regulations shall permit the operator
   of a website or an online service to terminate service provided to a
   child whose parent has refused, under the regulations prescribed under
   paragraph (1)(B)(ii), to permit the operator's further use or
   maintenance in retrievable form, or future online collection, of
   personal information from that child.

   (c) ENFORCEMENT.—Subject to sections 1304 and 1306, a violation of a
   regulation prescribed under subsection (a) shall be treated as a
   violation of a rule defining an unfair or deceptive act or practice
   prescribed under section 18(a)(1)(B) of the Federal Trade Commission
   Act (15 U.S.C. 57a(a)(1)(B)).

   (d) INCONSISTENT STATE LAW.—No State or local government may impose any
   liability for commercial activities or actions by operators in
   interstate or foreign commerce in connection with an activity or action
   described in this title that is inconsistent with the treatment of
   those activities or actions under this section.

   SEC. 1304. SAFE HARBORS.
   (a) GUIDELINES.—An operator may satisfy the requirements of regulations
       issued under section 1303(b) by following a set of self-regulatory
       guidelines, issued by representatives of the marketing or online
       industries, or by other persons, approved under subsection (b).
       (b) INCENTIVES.—

   (1) SELF-REGULATORY INCENTIVES.—In prescribing regulations under
       section 1303, the Commission shall provide incentives for
       self-regulation by operators to implement the protections afforded
       children under the regulatory requirements described in subsection
       (b) of that section.
       (2) DEEMED COMPLIANCE.—Such incentives shall include provisions for
       ensuring that a person will be deemed to be in compliance with the
       requirements of the regulations under section 1303 if that person
       complies with guidelines that, after notice and comment, are
       approved by the Commission upon making a determination that the
       guidelines meet the requirements of the regulations issued under
       section 1303.
       (3) EXPEDITED RESPONSE TO REQUESTS.—The Commission shall act upon
       requests for safe harbor treatment within 180 days of the filing of
       the request, and shall set forth in writing its conclusions with
       regard to such requests.

   (c) APPEALS.—Final action by the Commission on a request for approval
   of guidelines, or the failure to act within 180 days on a request for
   approval of guidelines, submitted under subsection (b) may be appealed
   to a district court of the United States of appropriate jurisdiction as
   provided for in section 706 of title 5, United States Code.

   SEC. 1305. ACTIONS BY STATES.
   (a) IN GENERAL.—

   (1) CIVIL ACTIONS.—In any case in which the attorney general of a State
       has reason to believe that an interest of the residents of that
       State has been or is threatened or adversely affected by the
       engagement of any person in a practice that violates any regulation
       of the Commission prescribed under section 1303(b), the State, as
       parens patriae, may bring a civil action on behalf of the residents
       of the State in a district court of the United States of
       appropriate jurisdiction to—

   (A) enjoin that practice;
       (B) enforce compliance with the regulation;
       (C) obtain damage, restitution, or other compensation on behalf of
       residents of the State; or
       (D) obtain such other relief as the court may consider to be
       appropriate.

   (2) NOTICE.—
   (A) IN GENERAL.—Before filing an action under paragraph (1), the
       attorney general of the State involved shall provide to the
       Commission—

   (i) written notice of that action; and
       (ii) a copy of the complaint for that action.

   (B) EXEMPTION.—
   (i) IN GENERAL.—Subparagraph (A) shall not apply with respect to the
       filing of an action by an attorney general of a State under this
       subsection, if the attorney general determines that it is not
       feasible to provide the notice described in that subparagraph
       before the filing of the action.
       (ii) NOTIFICATION.—In an action described in clause (i), the
       attorney general of a State shall provide notice and a copy of the
       complaint to the Commission at the same time as the attorney
       general files the action.

   (b) INTERVENTION.—
   (1) IN GENERAL.—On receiving notice under subsection (a)(2), the
       Commission shall have the right to intervene in the action that is
       the subject of the notice.
       (2) EFFECT OF INTERVENTION.—If the Commission intervenes in an
       action under subsection (a), it shall have the right—

   (A) to be heard with respect to any matter that arises in that action;
       and
       (B) to file a petition for appeal.

   (3) AMICUS CURIAE.—Upon application to the court, a person whose
   self-regulatory guidelines have been approved by the Commission and are
   relied upon as a defense by any defendant to a proceeding under this
   section may file amicus curiae in that proceeding.

   (c) CONSTRUCTION.—For purposes of bringing any civil action under
   subsection (a), nothing in this title shall be construed to prevent an
   attorney general of a State from exercising the powers conferred on the
   attorney general by the laws of that State to—
   (1) conduct investigations;
       (2) administer oaths or affirmations; or
       (3) compel the attendance of witnesses or the production of
       documentary and other evidence.

   (d) ACTIONS BY THE COMMISSION.—In any case in which an action is
   instituted by or on behalf of the Commission for violation of any
   regulation prescribed under section 1303, no State may, during the
   pendency of that action, institute an action under subsection (a)
   against any defendant named in the complaint in that action for
   violation of that regulation.

   (e) VENUE; SERVICE OF PROCESS.—
   (1) VENUE.—Any action brought under subsection (a) may be brought in
       the district court of the United States that meets applicable
       requirements relating to venue under section 1391 of title 28,
       United States Code.
       (2) SERVICE OF PROCESS.—In an action brought under subsection (a),
       process may be served in any district in which the defendant—

   (A) is an inhabitant; or
       (B) may be found.

   SEC. 1306. ADMINISTRATION AND APPLICABILITY OF ACT.
   (a) IN GENERAL.—Except as otherwise provided, this title shall be
       enforced by the Commission under the Federal Trade Commission Act
       (15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.).
       (b) PROVISIONS.—Compliance with the requirements imposed under this
       title shall be enforced under—(1) section 8 of the Federal Deposit
       Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818), in the case of—

   (A) national banks, and Federal branches and Federal agencies of
       foreign banks, by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency;
       (B) member banks of the Federal Reserve System (other than national
       banks), branches and agencies of foreign banks (other than Federal
       branches, Federal agencies, and insured State branches of foreign
       banks), commercial lending companies owned or controlled by foreign
       banks, and organizations operating under section 25 or 25(a) of the
       Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 601 et seq. and 611 et seq.), by the
       Board; and
       (C) banks insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
       (other than members of the Federal Reserve System) and insured
       State branches of foreign banks, by the Board of Direc- tors of the
       Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation;

   (2) section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818), by
       the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision, in the case of a
       savings association the deposits of which are insured by the
       Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation;
       (3) the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.) by the
       National Credit Union Administration Board with respect to any
       Federal credit union;
       (4) part A of subtitle VII of title 49, United States Code, by the
       Secretary of Transportation with respect to any air carrier or
       foreign air carrier subject to that part;
       (5) the Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921 (7 U.S.C. 181 et seq.)
       (except as provided in section 406 of that Act (7 U.S.C. 226,
       227)), by the Secretary of Agriculture with respect to any
       activities subject to that Act; and
       (6) the Farm Credit Act of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2001 et seq.) by the
       Farm Credit Administration with respect to any Federal land bank,
       Federal land bank association, Federal intermediate credit bank, or
       production credit association.

   (c) EXERCISE OF CERTAIN POWERS.—For the purpose of the exercise by any
   agency referred to in subsection (a) of its powers under any Act
   referred to in that subsection, a violation of any requirement imposed
   under this title shall be deemed to be a violation of a requirement
   imposed under that Act. In addition to its powers under any provision
   of law specifically referred to in subsection (a), each of the agencies
   referred to in that subsection may exercise, for the purpose of
   enforcing compliance with any requirement imposed under this title, any
   other authority conferred on it by law.

   (d) ACTIONS BY THE COMMISSION.—The Commission shall prevent any person
   from violating a rule of the Commission under section 1303 in the same
   manner, by the same means, and with the same jurisdiction, powers, and
   duties as though all applicable terms and provisions of the Federal
   Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.) were incorporated into and
   made a part of this title. Any entity that violates such rule shall be
   subject to the penalties and entitled to the privileges and immunities
   provided in the Federal Trade Commission Act in the same manner, by the
   same means, and with the same jurisdiction, power, and duties as though
   all applicable terms and provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act
   were incorporated into and made a part of this title.

   (e) EFFECT ON OTHER LAWS.—Nothing contained in the Act shall be
   construed to limit the authority of the Commission under any other
   provisions of law.

   SEC. 1307. REVIEW.

   Not later than 5 years after the effective date of the regulations
   initially issued under section 1303, the Commission shall—
   (1) review the implementation of this title, including the effect of
       the implementation of this title on practices relating to the
       collection and disclosure of information relating to children,
       children's ability to obtain access to information of their choice
       online, and on the availability of websites directed to children;
       and
       (2) prepare and submit to Congress a report on the results of the
       review under paragraph (1).

   SEC. 1308. EFFECTIVE DATE. Sections 1303(a), 1305, and 1306 of this
   title take effect on the later of—
   (1) the date that is 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act;
       or
       (2) the date on which the Commission rules on the first application
       filed for safe harbor treatment under section 1304 if the
       Commission does not rule on the first such application within one
       year after the date of enactment of this Act, but in no case later
       than the date that is 30 months after the date of enactment of this
       Act.
