http://www.jpl.nasa.gov/releases/2001/nmpteams.html

   MEDIA RELATIONS OFFICE
   JET PROPULSION LABORATORY
   CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
   NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION
   PASADENA, CALIF. 91109 TELEPHONE (818) 354-5011
   http://www.jpl.nasa.gov
   Contact: Carolina Martinez
   FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE [dot.gif] January 31, 2001
   NASA SELECTS PARTNERS FOR NEW MILLENNIUM
          Eight teams from industry, universities and NASA centers have
   been selected to develop new technology concepts, such as advanced
   solar power and optical communications, for future NASA missions.
          NASA plans to select up to five of the concepts for Space
   Technology 6 (ST6), the next New Millennium Program project, which will
   flight-test the new technology concepts in 2003 and 2004. The teams,
   selected by NASA's New Millennium Program, will study the options
   during a six-month phase for defining the technology concepts.
          "The program taps into the nation's best industrial and academic
   technology resources," said Dr. Fuk Li, program manager of the New
   Millennium Program at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena,
   Calif. "The program's objective is to validate technologies that are
   required for future science missions in space, not in a laboratory on
   Earth. ST6 also is the first time we are validating technology items as
   stand-alone subsystems. This set of technologies will bring broad
   benefits to NASA," said Li.
          Each of the eight teams' selected technologies fall into
   specific space technology capability areas deemed important by NASA for
   its future space science missions. The technologies and teams are:
     * -- Lightweight High-Voltage Stretched-Lens Concentrator Solar Array
       Experiment (provided by AEC-Able Engineering Company, Inc., Goleta,
       Calif.)
     * -- Dual Reflector Telescope Experiment (provided by Lockheed Martin
       Space Systems Company, Missile and Space Operations, Palo Alto,
       Calif.)
     * -- Ultra-Low Power Serial Bus (provided by Johns Hopkins
       University, Applied Physics Laboratory, Laurel, Md.)
     * -- Low-Power Avionics Sensor Suite (provided by The Charles Stark
       Draper Laboratory, Inc., Cambridge, Mass.)
     * -- Acquisition, Tracking, and Pointing for Space-to-Space
       Interplanetary Optical Communications (provided by Ball Aerospace &
       Technologies Corporation, Boulder, Colo.)
     * -- Flight Validation of Autonomous Rendezvous in Low-Earth Orbit
       (provided by Scientific Systems Company, Inc., Woburn, Mass.)
     * -- Autonomous Sciencecraft Constellation (provided by the Jet
       Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, Calif.)
     * -- Continuously Operating Helium Dilution Cooler for Space
       Applications (provided by NASA Ames Research Center, Moffett Field,
       Calif.)

          Between February and August 2001, the eight teams will
   independently demonstrate how their proposed technologies will be ready
   for flight validation. Each will also be responsible for delivering a
   study report that will include technology-validation experiment
   descriptions, rationale for flight validation, data, and partnering
   relationships. Then an independent review board at NASA will evaluate
   the reports and select the technology concepts that will fly in ST6.
          Further information on the New Millennium Program is available
   at http://nmp.jpl.nasa.gov .
          The New Millennium Program was created in 1994 to identify,
   develop and flight-validate advanced technologies that can lower costs
   and enable critical performance of science missions in the 21st
   century. The program is managed by JPL for NASA's Office of Earth
   Science and Office of Space Science, Washington, DC. JPL is a division
   of the California Institute of Technology.

                                    #####

   1/31/01 CM
   #2001-025
