http://www.nclis.gov/news/pressrelease/pr2002/2002BudgetStatement.html

   For Immediate Release
   For Information Contact
   Rosalie Vlach

       Chairperson Issues Statement Regarding The NCLIS FY 2002 Budget

   Washington, DC (January 11, 2002) NCLIS Chair Martha B. Gould issued
   the following statement regarding the NCLIS FY 2002 budget.

   With the Presidents signing of H.R. 3061, the Labor/HHS/Education
   appropriation, the uncertain future of the National Commission on
   Libraries and Information Science has been resolved.

   The Administrations FY 2002 Budget had proposed no funding for NCLIS,
   thus eliminating the agency. The Congress has rejected this proposal
   (as two earlier Congresses had done with similar proposals) and it has
   provided $1 million for the continuing operation of the Commission.

   Nonetheless, this amount represents a significant reduction for the
   Commission; last years funds totaled $1.495 million. Understandably,
   the extraordinary costs following the attacks on September 11 make it
   necessary for all government agencies to tighten their budget belts.

   Obviously, NCLIS will have to adjust its activities for the year and
   some of our worthwhile pursuits will have to be deferred for a while.
   However, we will continue our most important activities.

     * We will not abandon our leadership role in the collection of
       statistics about libraries of all types or our participation in the
       development of library standards.
     * We will continue to advance the cause of school libraries as an
       essential component of solid academic achievement.
     * We will maintain our partnership efforts with UNESCO and the
       National Forum for Information Literacy to organize an
       international conference on information literacy.
     * Notably, we will move forward with our newest project, prompted by
       the terrible losses of September 11th. NCLIS will endeavor to help
       libraries serve their communities as trusted sources of information
       during times of stress and uncertainty, better prepare for
       emergencies, and safeguard their unique information resources.

   The Administration proposal to eliminate the Commission was disruptive,
   but not without its benefits. Any entity that works for the public owes
   an obligation to the public to account for its activities and to
   justify its continued operation, especially as the circumstances that
   led to its creation may be changing.

   We welcome the opportunity to examine the role of NCLIS in the future,
   but question whether the appropriations route is the proper approach.
   The Commission was authorized through the deliberative action of the
   91st Congress in 1969-70. If it were true that there is no further need
   for the independent advisory body that Congress designedor if our
   functions were to be significantly changed or absorbed by another
   agencyit would be through the same legislative approach that such
   changes should be effected.

   It should be noted that the principal statute dealing with federal
   library support, the Library Services and Technology Act, must be
   reauthorized this year. This legislative review provides an opportunity
   to examine the Commission at the same time. In this context, the
   Administration, the library community, and the American public (whose
   library and information needs the Commission was designed to represent)
   will have adequate opportunity to convey to the Congress their thoughts
   on the future role of NCLIS.

   I want to personally express my appreciation to those Members of
   Congress who supported the continued funding for the Commission. I
   recognize that our budget is a microscopic part of a much larger
   appropriation. We do, after all, perform our work for less than a penny
   a year from each and every American. However, in the words of my
   predecessor, the late Jeanne Hurley Simon, from her testimony before
   our House Appropriations subcommittee in 1998: I can assure you that
   the one million dollars entrusted to us is real money both to the
   American people and to us, and we take pride in the careful and
   effective manner in which we put it to use on their behalf.

   I also want to note my gratitude to the Congress for including funds
   for school libraries in the Labor/HHS/Education appropriation. Congress
   included in the recently passed education reform act a section entitled
   Improving literacy through school libraries. The appropriation bill
   provides a small down payment on this new program. More is needed, and
   we hope that our current examination of school libraries will provide
   information that the Congress will find persuasive in increasing
   support for school libraries.

   Finally, I would like to call on President Bush to make appointments to
   the Commission. The terms of three Commissioners expire each year and
   we now have eight vacancies. I know a number of highly qualified
   individuals are seeking appointment, and I urge the White House to
   expedite their consideration. I also expect that the President will
   exercise his prerogative to name a new chairperson for the Commission,
   and I look forward to working with the new chair as I continue to serve
   the remainder of my current term as a Commissioner.

   The U.S. National Commission on Libraries and Information Science is a
   permanent, independent agency of the Federal government charged by
   Public Law 91-345 to appraise the adequacies and deficiencies of
   current library and information resources and services and to advise
   the President and Congress on national and international library and
   information policies and plans.
