http://www2.usmint.gov/policy/index.cfm?action=full



      The United States Mint What's New FAQs Search Mint Tours
      www.usmint.gov                         Serving America Since 1792

                               About The Mint
                               Product Catalog
                                Mint Programs
                               About The Mint
                                  Pressroom
                                Join Our Team
                               Privacy Policy
                               Take Our Survey
                            h.i.p. pocket change

                            Accessibility Cookies


                        Privacy Policy & Terms of Use


                      UNITED STATES MINT PRIVACY POLICY
    1. Overview
    2. Security
    3. Cookies
    4. Children's Personal Information
    5. Information Collected and Stored automatically
          + Summary Statistics
          + Logged-In Catalog Web Member Browsing
    6. New Online Catalog Features and Privacy
    7. Other Information Collected and Stored from E-mails and Web Forms
    8. Legal Authority

   1.   OVERVIEW (8/01)

   Your privacy is of the highest concern to the United States Mint. As we
   continually strive to improve our online services, our information
   practices may change, so please check back here often for changes to
   our Privacy Statement.

   2.   SECURITY (8/01)

   This is an official United States Government System, which may be used
   only for authorized purposes. For site security purposes and to ensure
   that this service remains available to all users, we employ software
   that can monitor network traffic and identify unauthorized attempts to
   upload or change information, or otherwise cause damage. Use of this
   system constitutes consent to such monitoring and auditing. Uploading
   or changing information, or attempting to upload or change information,
   on this service are strictly prohibited and may be punishable under the
   Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986 and the National Information
   Infrastructure Protection Act. Except for authorized law enforcement
   investigations, this monitoring and auditing is not used to identify
   individual users or their usage habits.

   If you choose to transmit or receive personal information
   electronically (such as by e-mail), you should be aware that we cannot
   guarantee confidentiality across the Internet. Many browsers support
   Secure Sockets Layer (SSL), a communications protocol which encrypts
   data transferred between your browser and a web server. The United
   States Mint offers SSL encryption for credit card purchases from our
   online catalog. You may also purchase our products by telephone at
   1-800-USA-MINT (1-800-872-6468). As a government agency, the United
   States Mint is committed to the security of its information systems. We
   take care in using and storing your order and personal information, and
   use several layers of firewalls and web architecture to protect it.

   3.   COOKIES (8/01)

   Some parts of our site use "cookies," small files placed on your hard
   drive when you access a Web site. We may use cookies to keep you
   connected to our site during your session, to operate our shopping cart
   and certain forms, or to count the number and type of visitors to the
   different pages on our site. We don't use cookies to store
   individually-identifiable information, or to track your actions over
   time or across Web sites. You can configure your browser to accept or
   decline cookies, or to alert you when cookies are in use. You don't
   have to accept cookies from us, but if you choose not to, some of the
   functions on our site may not be available to you. Once your
   transaction is completed and confirmed, you may delete any USMint.gov
   cookies from your hard drive.

   4.   CHILDREN'S PRIVACY (10/00)

   The Mint does not attempt to collect personally-identifiable
   information online from children under the age of 13.

   5.   INFORMATION COLLECTED AND STORED AUTOMATICALLY (08/01)

      Summary Statistics (08/01)

   The United States Mint uses software to create summary site statistics.
   If you do not log in as a catalog Web Member or provide
   personally-identifying information (such as by registering to create a
   catalog Web Membership, sending e-mail, making an online purchase or
   completing an online form) and visit our site solely to read or
   download information, we collect and store only the following:
     * the name of the domain from which you access the Internet;
     * the type and version of the browser you are using to access our
       site;
     * the date and time you access our site; and
     * the Internet address of the web site from which you linked directly
       to our site.

   If you have a cable modem, DSL or other always-on connections, please
   discuss with your service provider to see if this may be different for
   you. We store and use these statistics to manage and improve our Web
   site and the services we offer, but unless you log in as a registered
   catalog Web Member we do not use them to identify you or your usage
   habits except in authorized law enforcement investigations.

      Logged-In Catalog member Browsing (08/01)

   The United States Mint now offers a variety of updated online catalog
   services, with some additional features available if you become a
   catalog Web Member. You can browse, make online catalog purchases, and
   take advantage of many of our new catalog features without becoming a
   catalog Web Member. You are not required to become a catalog Web Member
   to use this site. If you are not a catalog Web Member, logging in will
   not apply to you.

   If you do become a catalog Web Member, you can browse and purchase
   online without logging in with your username and password. When you
   want to access your catalog Web Member account information and other
   member services, you can then log in. Once you log in during a visit to
   our Web site, thereafter we plan to track and collect information about
   your catalog browsing during that visit and store it in your customer
   account data. You are in control of whether you register as a catalog
   Web Member and when you log in as a registered user.

   We will use this information to learn generally how our customers use
   our site, and to learn about your preferences so we can customize your
   shopping experience and call your attention to products and information
   we hope will interest you. We will also use this information to improve
   our products and services. The Mint never sells this information nor
   rents it to anyone. It may be stored by or shared with government
   employees or government contractors in connection with the work of the
   Mint and its services (such as for purposes of analysis), and may be
   subject to Privacy Act routine use disclosures and to disclosure as
   otherwise required by law.

   6.   ONLINE CATALOG FEATURES AND PRIVACY (08/01)

   The United States Mint is proud to offer a variety of updated online
   catalog services. To offer these services, we sometimes collect
   information from you as discussed below. The Mint never sells this
   information nor rents it to anyone. It may be subject to Privacy Act
   routine use disclosures and to disclosure as otherwise required by law.

   Features Which Don't Require Catalog Web Membership. (8/01)
   You do not have to establish a catalog Web Membership to use features
   such as making online purchases of products or E-Gift Certificates,
   e-mail newsletter services, gift boxes, advance search functions,
   online e-mail assistance or order tracking. If you use these features
   we may ask you for information such as credit card matter, and
   telephone numbers, names, and e-mail and postal addresses for yourself
   and/or your recipient to provide the products and services you request.
   This information (including third-party personal information) may be
   stored by the Mint and government contractors, and may be shared with
   government employees and government contractors. We use this
   information to handle your orders and E-Gift certificates, for analysis
   and generally to provide our services. If you make a purchase or ship a
   product to others, we use postal addresses you provide to send print
   catalogs and product information. We use e-mail addresses you provide
   to send you the notices you request, to communicate with you about your
   orders and our products, and to notify E-Gift Certificate recipients of
   your gifts. As a service to E-Gift recipients we may also use their
   email addresses to send reminders about product purchase opportunities
   for their unredeemed E-Gift Certificates.

   When You Register to Establish a Catalog Web Membership(8/01)
   When you register to become a catalog Web Member and select a username
   and password, we ask for your name, address, telephone number, e-mail
   address, and credit card information. Credit card information helps us
   verify that you are over the age required by the Children's Online
   Privacy Protection Act for collection of personal information. While
   establishing your Web Membership you can also choose to tell us about
   your interests and preferences in Mint products. Registration
   information is stored by the Mint and its contractors. When you make
   purchases and use member services, the Mint and its contractors also
   store your Account Preferences, Shipping Information, Order History
   (including Subscription and E-Gift Certificate information), Address
   Book and Wish List entries, as well as third-party personal information
   you provide if you use member features such as the Address Book.

   Information collected when you establish your catalog Web Membership
   may be used to process your orders and provide member services and
   other services you select. It is also used to provide you with tools to
   manage services such as Subscriptions, provide customized product
   recommendations, and generally communicate with you in connection with
   your orders and the products and services we offer. This information
   may also be used to improve our products and services generally. After
   you provide your username and password, you may access, review and edit
   information you provide when you make purchases and use member
   services. This information may be shared with government contractors
   for analysis and in connection with the services we offer. If you
   purchase E-Gift certificates, we use e-mail addresses you provide to
   notify E-Gift Certificate recipients of your gift. As a service to
   E-Gift recipients we may also use their email addresses to send
   reminders about product purchase opportunities for their unredeemed
   E-Gift Certificates. We do not market to third parties listed in your
   Address Book unless you send them E-Gift Certificates or products or
   they purchase products or services from us.

   We do our best to refrain from sending unwanted information. Should you
   wish to cease receiving postal or email materials from the United
   States Mint, you may contact our Customer Care Center toll free 24
   hours, 7 days a week: within the United States at 1-800-USA-MINT
   (872-6468), TTY 1-888-321-MINT (6468), and from outside the United
   States (U.S. Country Code)-301-918-MINT (6468). You may also write to
   directly to the United States Mint, Customer Care Center at Lanham ,
   Maryland 20706-2275, USA. Email may be sent to the Customer Care Center
   by clicking on the customer service button on the Mint's online
   catalog. You may also unsubscribe from email services online. Web
   catalog Members may also use their online My Account management tools.

   7.   OTHER INFORMATION COLLECTED AND STORED FROM E-MAILS AND WEB FORMS
   (08/01)

   We don't require you to provide any personal information to access and
   browse our Web site or to use most of our online services. If you do
   choose to provide personally-identifying information to the United
   States Mint, we also offer alternate methods to access our products and
   services such as postal mail and telephone. Please remember that the
   Mint never sells this information nor rents it to anyone. Information
   and materials you provide to the Mint may be subject to Privacy Act
   routine use disclosures, and to disclosure as otherwise required by
   law.

   If you request a newsletter, catalog, or other materials to be sent by
   e-mail or postal mail, we collect personal information such as your
   name, e-mail and home addresses, and telephone number. We and our
   contractors store and use this information to process and verify
   requests and provide our products and services.

   If you join the U.S. Mint HIP Pocket Change Teacher's Network, we
   collect information including your name, e-mail address, academic
   information, and newsletter preferences. If you submit lesson plans for
   consideration and possible posting for distribution on our site, we
   also collect your address and other contact information, and a copy of
   the rights transfer agreement you sign electronically when you transmit
   your lesson plans or units to the Mint. We store this information and
   material and use it to send you the password and username you'll need
   to contribute lesson plans/units, for security and recordkeeping, and
   to communicate with you about the lesson plans/units and rights
   agreements you submit and about the Teachers' Network generally. If you
   request e-mailed newsletters and notices, we use your e-mail address to
   send them. You don't have to provide your e-mail address or
   registration information to enjoy the other features of The United
   States Mint HIP Pocket Change Web Site, but if you do not to provide
   this information you won't be able to contribute Lesson Plans or Units.

   If you register with our recruiting service, you will be asked to give
   your name, resume and employment history (which will include social
   security numbers and additional contact information), postal and e-mail
   addresses, and to select employment preference information. We need the
   information requested to evaluate your qualifications. We request your
   Social Security Number (SSN) in order to keep your records straight (as
   other people may have the same name). As allowed by law or Presidential
   directive, we may use your SSN to seek information about you from
   employers, schools, banks, and others who know you. Your SSN may also
   be used in studies and computer matching with other Government files,
   for example, files on unpaid student loans. If you do not give us your
   SSN or any other information requested, we cannot process your
   application, which is the first step in getting a job. Also, incomplete
   addresses and ZIP Codes will slow processing.

   You do not have to register to browse the job listings on our
   recruiting service (hosted by our contractor). If you apply for a
   position, you will also be asked certain self-assessment and competency
   questions. Some or all of this information may be required before you
   can be considered or hired. This information is retained by the service
   and, depending on your expressed preferences, can be used by the
   service or the Mint to notify you of positions, contact you and
   continue the employment application process. If you are hired, this
   information can become part of your permanent employment record and may
   be shared with the Office of Personnel Management. If you apply and are
   not hired, the Mint retains it for a limited period and then destroys
   it.

   If you complete an online survey (as opposed to noting your personal
   preferences when registering for a service), the Mint collects and
   stores responses anonymously. We use this information to learn about
   you and our other customers, and their shopping and technology
   preferences, to improve our Web site and its design. You are not
   required to complete any survey to use any feature of the Mint's Web
   site, including its online catalog.

   Generally, if you do submit something online to the Mint that includes
   personally-identifying information (such as by making an online catalog
   purchase, filling out other forms, opting-in to services like
   newsletters or document requests, sending e-mail, or otherwise), we may
   forward it to other government employees or government contractors to
   process your order or request or to answer your questions. We may also
   share your personal information with contractors for purposes of
   analysis and to conduct approved surveys in which you may be invited to
   participate. We may also track e-mails you send us to improve our
   response and message turn-around times.

   8.   LEGAL AUTHORITY (10/00)

   Our authority to ask for personal information in connection with
   purchases and requests for newsletters and other numismatic-related
   communications and documents, and for correspondence, comes from 31
   U.S.C. §§ 5111, 5112, 5131, 5132 & 5136; 31 C.F.R. Part 92; and other
   Acts of Congress authorizing the sale of commemorative coins and
   medals. Authority for the information requested by our recruiting site
   comes from 5 U.S.C. §§ 301, 1104, 1302, 3301, 3304, 3361, 3393 & 3394,
   and Executive Order 9397.


  Terms of Use   ||   FOIA   ||   Site Map   ||   Contact Us
  Portions © 1998-2001.  The U.S. Mint.  All Rights Reserved.

                                                                                                                          Sep 7, 2001
                                                                                                                              [buwb5]

                     web server   buweb5
                    server time   Jan 30, 2002 @ 09:18:16
                   adjusted now   Jan 30, 2002 @ 12:18:16
