http://mitchnts1.cr.usgs.gov/projects/watershrimp.html

   link to USGS home page

   USGS Hurricane Mitch Program Projects

   Impacts and Recovery in the Coastal Environment
   Project Chief:  Dr. C. Edward Proffitt
   Phone:337-266-8509
   Email:edward_proffitt@usgs.gov
   Project Summary
   Click for a larger image Hurricane Mitch induced multiple impacts to
   coastal ecosystems and natural resources on both coasts of Central
   America. Severe impacts on the Caribbean coast were primarily from high
   sustained winds, flooding, and wave damage. As a result, the
   once-extensive mangrove forests on the island of Guanaja suffered
   virtually complete destruction and the mangrove forests on the other
   Bay Island of Roatan were also damaged. Shallow coral flats and
   seagrass beds suffered damage as well. Click the image on the left for
   a look at scientists studying the impact.
   Click for a larger image The impacts on the Pacific coast were mainly
   due to flooding, erosion, landslides and debris flows related to the
   extreme precipitation. As a result , the Choluteca River jumped its
   banks and created a new channel, burying large areas of shrimp ponds
   and mangrove forests with close to one meter of sediment.
   The coastal environment provides very valuable economic resources.
   Proceeds from shrimp aquaculture, coastal fisheries and eco-tourism
   constitute about two-thirds of the Honduran economy. These activities
   rely on clean estuarine and coastal waters and healthy coastal forests,
   mangroves, seagrasses and corals.
   Shrimp is the third largest commodity of Honduras' agricultural
   exports. Shrimp aquaculture farms are located in the expansive salt
   flats and mangrove forests of the Gulf of Fonseca due to the proximity
   to estuarine water which is needed for the activity. Shrimp farming is
   tightly dependent on the maintenance of healthy mangrove forests since
   mangrove leaf production represents an important source of primary
   production to the estuarine food web. Larval, juvenile, and adult life
   history stages of shrimp are members of this food web. Mangrove forests
   provide habitat for post-larval shrimp populations and juvenile members
   of other coastal fisheries. When viral outbreaks occur in the
   laboratory-raised shrimp stocks, farmers can turn to the native
   populations within the estuaries for stock. This can occur only if
   abundant and healthy populations of native shrimp exist. Mangroves also
   represent a natural bio-filter for shrimp wastes and nutrient
   pollutants which may be released into the estuary. Mangrove forests
   assimilate some of the excess nutrients during their growth, resulting
   in the formation of both above-ground biomass (e.g. leaves) and
   below-ground biomass (roots). This material subsequently provides food
   for the estuarine food chain and adds to the organic matter in the
   soil.
   click for a larger image Tourism in Honduras is an increasingly
   important economic activity, and depends on healthy ecosystems. In and
   around the Bay Islands, deep sea fishing and scuba-diving are the main
   attractions. The health of these ecosystems relies on the integrity of
   the mangrove -seagrass -coral reef continuum, where all three
   components act in concert to protect the health of the coastal
   environment. Damage to any one component causes a synergistic result in
   habitat degradation, with eventually fewer dollars spent in the
   industry.
   Objectives
   click for a larger image A multi-disciplinary, integrated program of
   study is evaluating the impacts of Hurricane Mitch to the coastal
   ecosystems of Central America. The objective is to document the process
   of natural recovery, including long-term impacts, and to propose
   management recommendations to enhance and sustain this recovery
   trajectory.
   Approach
   Given the economic value of the coastal environment, holistic
   management based on scientific knowledge of this environment is needed
   to ensure the sustainability. In the wake of hurricane Mitch, our
   approach follows:
    1. To measure the extent and nature of damage to the shrimp farms,
       mangroves and sea grasses.
    2. To asses the long-term consequences of the damage
    3. To estimate the recovery time and evaluate the need for active
       restoration

   Integrated biological studies, performed in concert with Mapping
   Coastal Habitats and information transfer are needed. Therefore, the
   following programs have been established:
    A. Caribbean Coast:
         1. Impacts, recovery, restoration and Mapping Coastal Habitats of
            mangrove, sea grass/soft coral flats and interior forests of
            the Bay islands, Honduras.
         2. Impacts, recovery and restoration of mangrove and sea grass
            communities in Punta de Manabique, Guatemala
    B. Pacific Coast (Gulf of Fonseca)
         1. Impacts and recovery of mangrove forests, Honduras.
         2. Mapping Coastal Habitats of mangrove forests and shrimp ponds,
            Honduras.
         3. Integrated management of shrimp ponds and associated mangroves
            for protection of estuarine water quality, Honduras.
         4. Monitoring of water quality in estuarine areas associated with
            shrimp farms and modeling water quality parameters and
            circulation in the Gulf of Fonseca. Honduras, Nicaragua and El
            Salvador.
         5. Analysis of the impacts and management of nuisance crustaceans
            in shrimp ponds. Nicaragua.
         6. Development of a quick test kit for compromised shrimp post
            larvae. Honduras, Nicaragua and El Salvador.
         7. Analysis of impacts of storm-related releases of shrimp to
            natural shrimp population genetics. Honduras and Nicaragua.
    C. Regional Analysis
         1. Regional large-scale mapping of coastal ecosystems impacted by
            Hurricane Mitch and summary of recovery.
         2. Comparison of Hurricane Mitch impacts with non-Mitch flooding
            impacts in Costa Rica.

   The participants within this multi-disciplinary, integrated program of
   study include principal investigators (PI's) who are recognized
   authorities in their respective fields and associate investigators, who
   together draw from a wide range of experience and expertise. The
   program specifically includes the following participants:
   USGS BRD Lead Principal Investigators
     * C. Edward Proffitt, Ph.D. (Edward_Proffitt@usgs.gov), Lead PI and
       Project Chief Mangrove forest structure (Honduras, Guatemala)
       Mangrove population genetics (Honduras) Shrimp population genetics
     * Donald R. Cahoon, Ph. D. (Don_Cahoon@usgs.gov), Lead PI Sediment
       and surface elevation Dynamics (Honduras, Guatemala)
     * Thomas Doyle, Ph. D. (Tom_Doyle@usgs.gov), Lead PI Hurricane Mitch
       damage to coastal forests -wind throw modeling (Guatemala,
       Honduras, Nicaragua)
     * Lawrence R. Handley, M.Sc. (Lawrence_Handley@usgs.gov), Lead PI
       Aerial photography and interpretation, Mapping Coastal Habitats
       (Honduras)
     * Philippe Hensel, Ph. D., JCWS (Philippe_Hensel@usgs.gov), Co-PI
       Mangrove forest structure (Honduras, Guatemala) Sediment and
       surface elevation Dynamics (Honduras, Guatemala)
     * Jill Jenkins, Ph. D. (Jill_Jenkins@usgs.gov), Lead-PI Shrimp viral
       resistance 'quick test' kit
     * Karen McKee, Ph. D. (Karen_McKee@usgs.gov), Lead PI Soil
       physico-chemistry (Honduras, Guatemala)
     * Thomas C. Michot, Ph. D. (Tommy_Michot@usgs.gov), Lead PI Sea grass
       and soft coral ecology
     * Steven Travis, Ph. D. (Steven_Travis@usgs.gov), Lead-PI Shrimp
       population genetics

   University and Government Cooperators - Principal Investigators
     * Robert Twilley, Ph. D., University of Louisiana at Lafayette
       (Rtwilley@Louisiana.edu), Lead PI Mangrove-nutrient modeling
       (Honduras)
     * Victor Rivera, Ph. D., University of Louisiana at Lafayette
       (riverav@louisiana.edu, VH_Rivera@yahoo.com),Co-PI
       Mangrove-nutrient modeling (Honduras)
     * Daryl Felder, Ph. D., University of Louisiana at Lafayette
       (dlf4517@louisiana.edu), Lead PI Shrimp farm nuisance crustaceans
       (Nicaragua)
     * Bart Green, Ph. D., USDA, Lead PI Shrimp farm water quality and
       Gulf of F. circulation modeling (Honduras)
     * George Ward, Ph. D., University of Texas, Co-PI Shrimp farm water
       quality and Gulf of F. circulation modeling (Honduras)
     * John Dankert, Ph. D., University of Louisiana at Lafayette
       (dankert@louisiana.edu), Co-PI Shrimp viral resistance 'quick test'
       kit.

   Associated Investigators
     * Andrea Anteau, M. Sc., JCWS (Andrea_Anteau@usgs.gov) Soil
       physico-chemistry (Honduras, Guatemala)
     * Alejandro Arrivillaga, Ph. D., JCWS (Alex_Arrivillaga@usgs.gov) Sea
       grass and soft coral ecology Sediment and surface elevation
       Dynamics (Honduras, Guatemala)
     * James N. Burch, Ph. D. NPS (Jim_Burch@nps.gov) Sea grass and soft
       coral ecology
     * Patricia Faulkner, M.Sc., USGS* (PatriciaFaulkner@wlf.state.la.us)
       Soil Physico-chemistry (Honduras, Guatemala)
     * Thomas McGinnis II, M.Sc. (Thomas_McGinnis@usgs.gov) Soil
       physico-chemistry (Honduras, Guatemala)
     * Brian Perez, Ph. D., JCWS (Brian_Perez@usgs.gov) Sediment and
       surface elevation Dynamics (Honduras, Guatemala)
     * Jesse Thibodeaux, B.S., JCWS (Jesse_Thibodeaux@usgs.gov) Aerial
       photography and interpretation, Mapping Coastal Habitats (Honduras)

   *Currently at the Louisiana Dept. Wildlife & Fisheries
   Cooperating Agencies
   SERNA: Lic. Adrian Oviedo
   Universidad Autonoma de Honduras: Sherry Thorn, M.Sc.
   Unidad Municipal Ambiental de Guanaja: Estella Miller
   Guanaja Hotel and Tourism Association: Yovany Mac Bennett
   Consorcio Safege-Sogreah-Moncada y Moncada: Ing. Jacques Grelot and
   Isabelle Valade, Ph.D.
   University of Louisiana at Lafayette: John Dankert, Ph. D., Daryl
   Felder, Ph. D., Victor Rivera, Ph. D. and Robert Twilley, Ph. D.
   United States Department of Agriculture: Bart Green, Ph. D.
   University of Texas: George Ward, Ph. D.
   Source Data
   Mangrove forests and sea grass ecosystems (Honduras and Guatemala):
   summary datasets for the following components:
    1. Mangrove forest structure and demography
    2. Sediment elevation and accretion
    3. Soil stratigraphy and physico-chemistry
    4. Patterns of sea grass distribution and biomass across depth
       gradients
    5. Sea grass rhizome growth chronology sequencing
    6. Sediment core stratigraphy

   Caribbean coastal forests: wind throw model:
    1. Reconstruction of wind speeds and angles of hurricane as it made
       landfall.

   Habitat maps:
    1. 1: 10 000 and 1: 20 000 natural color and infra-red aerial
       photography

   Modeling water quality and circulation in Gulf of Fonseca:
    1. Summary data for Gulf of Fonseca hydrodynamic circulation
    2. Summary data for water quality

   Nutrient pollutant uptake by mangroves:
    1. Summary data of nutrient fluxes through mangrove forests adjacent
       to shrimp ponds

   Shrimp population genetics:
    1. Summary data for genetic similarities among populations of
       post-larval shrimp in Gulf of Fonseca and laboratory-raised shrimp
       stock.

   Nuisance crustaceans:
    1. Summary data: distributions of nuisance crustaceans in shrimp ponds
       in Nicaragua

   Compromised shrimp test kit:
    1. Description of data used in protocol development

   Products
    1. Guanaja Restoration Report
    2. USGS Technical Report: Bay Islands
    3. USGS Technical Report: Gulf of Fonseca
    4. 1 : 20 000 habitat maps (GIS)

   Locations
   Bay Islands:
    1. Roatán
    2. Guanaja
    3. Cayos Cochinos

   Guatemala:
    1. Bahía la Graciosa
    2. Punta de Manabique
    3. Lago Izabál

   Gulf of Fonseca
   Nicaragua
   Data
   Not yet available
   Project Tour
   Bay Islands:

     Roatán click for a larger image click for a larger image click for a
                                                              larger image
            click for a larger image click for a larger image click for a larger
                                                              image
            click for a larger image click for a larger image click for a larger
                                                              image

         Guanaja click for a larger image click for a larger image click for a
                                                                   larger image

         Cayos Cochinos click for larger image click for a larger image

   Guatemala:

         Bahía la Graciosa click for a larger image click for a larger image

     Punta de Manabique click for larger image click for a larger image
   click for a larger image

         Lago Izabál click for a larger image

   Gulf of Fonseca click for larger image click for larger image
   Nicaragua


    U.S. Department of the Interior
    U.S. Geological Survey
    EROS Data Center International Program
    URL: http://mitchnts1.cr.usgs.gov/projects/watershrimp.html
    Maintainer:  cbreen@usgs.gov
    Last Update: Tuesday, December 04, 2001
