http://www.fsa.usda.gov/pas/publications/facts/html/shop.htm

   factsheetweb.jpg (29344 bytes)
   January 1999
   Small Hog Operation Payment (SHOP)

   Background

   Vice President Gore announced on Friday, January 8, 1999, that the
   Department of Agriculture (USDA) will make approximately $50 million in
   direct cash payments to small hog producers to help them weather the
   current economic crisis. Details of the program were announced by
   Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman on Tuesday, January 12, 1999.

   Who Is Eligible For Payments?

   Producers qualify for the direct cash payments if their hog operation
   (1) marketed fewer than 1,000 hogs during the last 6 months of 1998,
   and (2) is still in operation. Two restrictions apply. First, hog
   operations are not eligible for payments on hogs marketed under
   fixed-price or cost-plus contracts. Second, any operation whose gross
   income for 1998 was greater than $2.5 million will not be eligible for
   payments, this is also true for USDA’s crop disaster assistance
   programs.

   Eligibility is based on marketings during the last 6 months of 1998 to
   avoid distorting current marketings. The 6 month period also
   accommodates the marketing practices of small producers who may not
   market hogs every week or month, but who need help to weather the
   current economic crisis.

   How Many Producers Are Eligible?

   USDA estimates that 80-90 percent of producers, or nearly 100,000
   nationwide, are eligible for these payments.

   How Much Will Producers Be Paid?

   Producers will be paid up to $5 per slaughter-weight hog (or the
   equivalent for feeder pigs and other swine) multiplied by the number of
   hogs (up to 500) marketed during the last 6 months of 1998. The actual
   payment may be less than $5, given the limited amount of funding
   available under law. For payment purposes, producers are limited to 500
   market hogs (or an equivalent number of feeder pigs), so the maximum
   payment that will be paid to any operation is $2,500.

   What Must Producers Do To Sign Up For Payment?

   Payments will be made through USDA’s Farm Service Agency (FSA) local
   offices. From February 1, 1999, to February 12, 1999, FSA will conduct
   a sign up for the payment program. During this sign up period,
   producers will be required to apply for the program at their local FSA
   office.

   What Records Will Producers Need To Apply?

   Producers will be required to certify that they meet the eligibility
   requirements of the program. FSA will have an application form that
   producers will fill out when they sign up for the program. It is
   expected that the form will require producers to include: (1) the name
   of the operation and a list of persons involved in it, (2) the number
   of slaughter hogs and feeder pigs marketed in the last 6 months of
   1998, and (3) the buyers of the hogs and pigs.

   The form is also expected to include: (1) a statement affirming that
   the producer is still in business at the time of the SHOP request, (2)
   a statement affirming that the producer did not market his or her hogs
   under fixed-price or cost-plus contracts, and (3) a statement affirming
   that the producer is aware that USDA will be conducting spot checks.
   For those producers selected for spot checks, additional information
   may be requested.

   Any producer who receives a payment based on erroneous information will
   be required to repay USDA. Also, any producer who receives a payment
   based on a fraudulent application will be required to repay USDA and
   may face criminal prosecution.

   When Will Payments Be Made?

   Payments will be made about 2 to 3 weeks after the end of the signup
   period.

   What Is the Legal Authority for These Payments?

   The payments will be made under USDA’s Section 32 program (Section 32
   of the Act of August 24, 1935). USDA typically uses Section 32 to
   purchase commodities that are in surplus for distribution through
   Federal food assistance programs. Section 32 also permits direct
   payments to farmers to reestablish their purchasing power. This is the
   first time in 38 years that payments will be made directly to producers
   under the Section 32 program. The use of Section 32 funds for direct
   payments will not reduce the amount of assistance for our food and
   nutrition programs.

   How Can I Get Further Information?

   Local FSA offices are the best source for producers seeking additional
   information. Program details will also be published in the Federal
   Register in the near future.


   The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) prohibits discrimination in
   all its programs and activities on the basis of race, color, national
   origin, gender, religion, age, disability, political beliefs, sexual
   orientation, and marital or family status. (Not all prohibited bases
   apply to all programs.) Persons with disabilities who require
   alternative means for communication of program information (braille,
   large print, audiotape, etc.) should contact USDA’s TARGET Center at
   202-720-2600 (voice and TDD).

   To file a complaint of discrimination, write USDA, Director, Office of
   Civil Rights, Room 326-W, Whitten Building, 1400 Independence Avenue,
   SW, Washington, D.C., 20250-9410, or call (202) 720-5964 (voice or
   TDD).

   USDA is an equal opportunity provider and employer.

   AG00169_.GIF (5375 bytes) Download Print Version
     PDF (46K)

     [ Return to Fact Sheet Index | FSA Home Page | Comments | USDA Home
                                   Page ]
