http://www.cityofhouston.gov/mayoroffice/snc.html

   City of Houston

   Home

       Services

               About Houston

                            Mayor's Office

                                          Elected Officials

                                                           City Desk

   Mayor's Office > Super Neighborhood Councils


   Super Neighborhood Councils

      Super Neighborhoods is an initiative based on Mayor Lee P. Brown's
      Neighborhood Oriented Government that gives communities more input into
      City government policymaking, budgeting, planning and service delivery
      systems.

      Houston has been divided into 88 Super Neighborhoods where residents of
      neighboring communities are encouraged to work together to identify,
      plan, and set priorities to address the needs and concerns of their
      community.

      The Super Neighborhood Council serves as a forum where residents and
      stakeholders can discuss issues, establish priority projects for the
      area and develop a Super Neighborhood Action Plan to help them meet
      their goals. In some cases, more than one of the Super Neighborhoods
      have joined together to create a stronger, more active Council.

      The Super Neighborhood initiative is building and improving on past
      successes and relies upon stakeholder participation and outreach. The
      people living in the neighborhoods themselves are best-equipped to know
      what their needs are, and are the most invested in seeing that those
      needs are met. They bring these concerns to the City and work together
      to have them addressed and resolved. Through this initiative, City
      government has established strong relationships within Houston
      communities.

      For more information, go to the Super Neighborhoods site.


   Help | Privacy Policy | Site Index
                                                                Texas Online

             COH welcomes your input on how to improve this site

   www.cityofhouston.gov
