http://www.rightwhale.noaa.gov/right_whale/about_trip.html

   On the trail of the Right Whale
   Mission log
   About the trip
   About the people
   About the whale
   Aerial Surveys

   About the trip
   The 1999 Cruise

   R/V Jane Yarn During this cruise, researchers plan to coordinate their
   tagging efforts with the Early Warning System (EWS) aerial survey,
   which can help find whales for tagging and relocate them using a
   receiver in the plane. The Florida Department of Environmental
   Protection (DEP) and the Georgia Department of Natural Resources (DNR)
   are also helping with the sightings. They will conduct aerial surveys
   along the Florida coast during the course of the cruise.

   Once researchers locate the whales in the high-density areas of the
   calving grounds, they will use tagging equipment to attach a VHF radio
   transmitter. The tracking vessel will maintain a distance of at least a
   mile from the whales at night and during times of reduced visibility to
   prevent affecting the pair's behavior.
   (top)

   Tagging right whale cows

   New England Aquarium researchers plan to identify cows for tagging by
   the close association of a small calf or by positive identification
   from the right whale catalog. Photographs of individual right whales
   will allow researchers to collect data on the whale's age, sex, and
   reproductive status.

   Team members will record the response of each whale to tagging. Based
   on observations of comparable disturbances while obtaining biopsy
   samples not anticipate any long-term behavioral impacts on the whales,
   based upon observations of comparable disturbances while obtaining
   biopsy samples and previous tagging efforts. In addition, no whale will
   be tagged more than once.
   (top)

   Team efforts in tracking

   The crew aboard the Jane Yarn plans to track the tagged whales. The
   vessel will carry a tracking team of five people, in addition to the
   crew of the Yarn. It is capable of staying offshore for a minimum of
   three to four days between docking.

   If sea conditions allow, tracking will be done continuously for at
   least seventy-two hours after tagging. Researchers will depend on air
   support from the EWS team, with help from the Florida DEP and Georgia
   DNR, to help relocate whales after bad weather. Once the whale has been
   found, shipboard tracking efforts will resume, maintaining
   round-the-clock radio contact.

   After tagging, the team will document every surfacing, dive intervals,
   breathing rates, and behavior of the mother and calf at the surface.
   Researchers will compare radio and visual observations during the day
   with radio observations at night to determine patterns of diurnal
   behavior.
   (top)

   Questions answered

   Collecting detailed information on the 1999 cruise will enable
   researchers to determine if certain temporal or spatial behaviors can
   be associated with increased vulnerability to vessel strikes. For
   example, do calves tend to nurse more at certain times than others? Do
   mothers sleep at the surface at certain times? Are these behavioral
   traits associated with water depth or other oceanographic features that
   increase vulnerability to ship strikes?

   Location data collected from tagged animals will be plotted on a GIS
   mapping system. These plots will contain information on water depth and
   human activity. Aerial surveys in the region and records from the
   tracking vessel will provide data on military and commercial shipping
   as well as on fishing and small-vessel activity. Plotting the location
   of ship channels and dredge transit zones will allow for analysis of
   whale distribution and movement patterns in association with those
   fixed features.
   (top)
