http://www.treasurer.ca.gov/2000policygoals.htm

                        Policy Goals and Initiatives


               STATE TREASURER’S 2000 POLICY GOALS AND INITIATIVES

   POLICY GOALS

          California State Treasurer Philip Angelides was sworn into office
      on January 4, 1999. His key goals are to protect taxpayer funds, to
      cost-effectively finance schools and other infrastructure that
      California needs to succeed in the 21^st Century, and to invest more in
      California communities.

          What follows is a brief summary of the major 2000 policy
      initiatives launched by the Treasurer in pursuit of these goals. The
      State Treasurer’s 1999 Policy Goals and Initiatives, as well as this
      document, can be found at www.treasurer.ca.gov



   POLICY INITIATIVES


        THE DOUBLE BOTTOM LINE: INVESTING IN CALIFORNIA’S EMERGING MARKETS

       In May 2000, the State Treasurer’s Office launched a major public
   policy initiative, The Double Bottom Line: Investing in California’s
   Emerging Markets, to direct more than $8 billion in investment capital
   – through state programs and the State’s pension and investment funds –
   to spur economic growth in those California communities left behind
   during the economic expansion of the past decade. The initiative
   recognizes that the growing chasm between the "two Californias" – one
   of economic success and one of struggle – will dim the State’s
   long-term economic prospects if action is not taken.

       The Treasurer’s report and policy initiative mobilizes the powerful
   instrument of financial capital in new and innovative ways, consistent
   with the highest fiduciary standards, to respond to the challenges of
   widening economic disparity. The programs and policies outlined seek to
   achieve the "double bottom line" goals of strong investment returns and
   broadened economic opportunity.

       Since the launching of The Double Bottom Line initiative, the
   Treasurer’s office has proceeded on a number of fronts to implement the
   programs outlined in the report (see section below regarding Investing
   in California Communities). A full copy of the report may be found on
   the web at www.treasurer.ca.gov. Also available at
   www.treasurer.ca.gov, is Smart Investments: Ideas to Action, which
   outlines actions taken to date to implement the policies and programs
   called for in The Double Bottom Line: Investing in California’s
   Emerging Markets.

                         PROTECTING TAXPAYER DOLLARS
     * Taxpayer Funds Invested With Record Earnings

     In 2000, the State Treasurer’s Office achieved record earnings of
     $2.47 billion on state and local taxpayer funds invested through the
     Pooled Money Investment Account (PMIA), which is overseen by the
     State Treasurer. The PMIA’s overall return on investment in 2000 –
     6.27 percent – was reached in only one prior year during the last
     decade.

     * State Pension Funds Sell Tobacco Holdings

     At the request of the Treasurer, the governing boards of two of the
     nation’s largest public employee pension funds – the California
     Public Employees’ Retirement System and the California State
     Teachers’ Retirement System (the Treasurer sits on both boards) –
     decided to sell their over $800 million in tobacco holdings.

     The action recognized that tobacco would remain a risky long-term
     investment because of the unprecedented barrage of litigation and
     regulatory action faced by the industry and because society as a
     whole has rendered a powerful judgment – unlikely to change over
     time – about the product and industry practices. The action further
     recognized that there are other investment options available to
     provide the pension systems with strong returns.

     * Strengthened Standards for Investment in Foreign Emerging Markets

     In November – at the Treasurer’s request – the California Public
     Employees’ Pension System (CalPERS) adopted new policies to better
     protect pension funds by reducing the risk of investing in stocks
     and bonds in foreign emerging markets such as Indonesia, Malaysia
     and Argentina, where past returns have been mixed at best,
     strikingly poor at worst. Currently, the fund has approximately $2
     billion invested in these highly volatile markets which can pose
     considerable financial risk for investors due to factors such as
     economic and political conditions.

     The new CalPERS policy evaluates foreign markets on a set of
     financial screens, as well as factors that impact long-term value
     and growth. These factors include whether countries are politically
     stable and are moving towards true democracy and, therefore, free
     markets; whether countries have financial transparency, including a
     free press; and whether countries have banned abusive practices such
     as child labor. The new policy also encourages investments in
     emerging market companies that are committed to principles of
     corporate responsibility, such as equal opportunity, safe
     workplaces, and environmentally sustainable practices.


   Financing California Schools and Infrastructure/Building California’s
                                   Future
     * ScholarShare Rated Top College Savings Plan by Financial Experts

     In its August 2000 issue, Kiplinger’s savings and investment
     magazine rated California ScholarShare – which is chaired by the
     State Treasurer – as one of the top five college savings plans in
     the country. Joe Hurley, an authority on saving for college and
     author of the book, The Best Way to Save for College, awarded
     California ScholarShare four out of five "graduation caps" in his
     rating of the nation’s state-sponsored college savings programs.
     Both publications cited experienced fund managers and recently
     expanded investment options as strong features of the California
     program.

     During 2000, the number of Californians investing in ScholarShare
     rose from a little over 5,000 to nearly 27,000, with assets under
     management climbing from $26 million to over $112 million. More
     information about ScholarShare can be obtained on the web at
     www.scholarshare.com.

     * Extra Credit Teacher Home Purchase Program Funded and Underway

     In September 2000, the California Debt Limit Allocation Committee
     (CDLAC), chaired by the State Treasurer, made funding available to
     provide home purchase assistance to teachers and principals who
     commit to serving in low performing California schools. The Extra
     Credit Teacher Home Purchase Program, first proposed by the
     Treasurer in December 1999, will serve over 4,000 teachers and
     principals through 2004.

     San Francisco, the City and County of Los Angeles, as well as
     Sacramento, Santa Clara, San Bernardino and Orange counties, are now
     launching teacher home purchase programs that combine "Extra Credit"
     tax credits or low-interest mortgages with local community provided
     down payment assistance.

     * Smart Growth Grants for California Communities

     The State Treasurer’s Office sponsored AB 779 (Torlakson), which was
     signed into law, authorizing the California Pollution Control
     Financing Authority, chaired by the State Treasurer, to make $2.5
     million in grants to economically distressed local communities to
     create smart growth, community revitalization programs.

     * Financing Construction and Repair of California Schools

     During 2000, the State Treasurer’s Office made available over $2.4
     billion in voter approved Proposition 1A bond funds to local schools
     for school construction and repair.


                     Investing in California Communities
     * Increased State Deposits in California Lending Institutions
       Committed to Community Investment

     The State Treasurer’s office has put more of the taxpayers’ money –
     managed through the State’s PMIA – to work here in California by
     increasing deposits of state funds in California community lending
     institutions by $1.56 billion in 2000. The number of entities
     participating in the "Time Deposit" program increased from 63 to
     116.

     The program assures a yield to the State that is above the Treasury
     bill rate, and deposits are more than fully collateralized. The
     state deposits provide lenders with funds to boost small business
     and home mortgage lending in California communities.

     * New Funding to Clean Up Brownfields in California Neighborhoods

     SB 1986 (Costa), proposed by the State Treasurer’s office, was
     signed into law enabling the California Pollution Control Financing
     Authority (CPCFA), chaired by the State Treasurer, to finance
     environmental assessment and remediation of brownfields –
     contaminated sites in the midst of urban and rural communities.
     These properties – estimated to number in the tens of thousands
     across California – not only pose environmental and health risks,
     but also represent underutilized economic assets in local
     communities.

     Financing of environmental assessment and remediation is a critical
     step in returning brownfield sites to productive use and in
     revitalizing economically struggling neighborhoods. The program,
     with initial funding of $10 million, is expected to be up and
     running by mid 2001.

     * $500 Million Investment Fund Targeted to Underserved Communities

     In June 2000, CalPERS, where the Treasurer serves as a board member,
     granted approval for The California Initiative, a $500 million
     investment fund targeted to businesses locating and expanding in
     underserved communities – with the "double bottom line" goals of
     achieving risk-adjusted, market returns for the pension system,
     while broadening economic opportunity.

     The initiative has been structured to engage strong private sector
     investment partners and to leverage additional capital. It is
     expected that the investment program will be underway by the summer
     of 2001.

     * The Cedillo-Alarcon Community Clinic Investment Act – Funding for
       Local Health Clinics

     In 2000, the Treasurer’s office played a key role in the successful
     effort to pass the Cedillo-Alarcon Community Clinic Investment Act.
     The Act provides $50 million to the California Health Facilities
     Financing Authority (CHFFA), chaired by the State Treasurer, to make
     grants to community clinics to expand health services for low-income
     families, recognizing that basic services, such as healthcare, are a
     key element of any effective strategy to bridge the growing gap
     between rich and poor in California.

     * More Federal Funding for Affordable Housing, Pollution Control, Job
       Creation and Student Lending

     The State Treasurer’s office played an active role in gaining more
     federal funding for affordable housing, pollution control, job
     creation, and student lending.

     Under federal legislation passed in December 2000, annual funding
     for the construction and rehabilitation of affordable rental housing
     will increase substantially. California’s share of the federal low
     income tax credit increased from $41.9 million in 2000 to $50.8
     million in 2001, with a further increase to over $58 million slated
     for 2002. The housing tax credit program is administered by the
     California Tax Credit Allocation Committee, chaired by the State
     Treasurer.

     Additionally, federally authorized low interest financing for
     affordable housing, industrial development projects, pollution
     control and student loans was increased from approximately $1.65
     billion in 2000 to $2.1 billion in 2001 and over $2.5 billion in
     2002. This financing is allocated by the California Debt Limit
     Allocation Committee (CDLAC), chaired by the State Treasurer.

     * New Law Requiring Public Funds to be Deposited in Financial
       Institutions Committed to Community Reinvestment.

     Assembly Bill 2708 (Wesson), proposed by the State Treasurer’s
     Office and signed into law, incentivizes investments in economically
     distressed neighborhoods by requiring state and local governments to
     deposit their funds in secure financial institutions that are
     investing in lower-income communities. This law ensures that
     taxpayers’ moneys will help provide investment capital for those
     California communities that need it most.

   Home Back
