http://insitu.jpl.nasa.gov/roadmap.html


   Center for In Situ Exploration and Sample Return

   Home Line Sitemap topnav-spacer Overview Roadmap Science Technology Go


   Top corner
   News Flashes
   Team In Situ
   NEPTUNE Project
   Speaker Series
   Newsletter
   Library
   Conferences

   content-spacer

                                   Roadmap

   What is a "Roadmap"?

   A roadmap is a set of guidelines, instructions, or explanations. The
   most common form of a roadmap is a graphical representation of streets,
   highways, and sometimes even unpaved trails. It contains many symbols
   for landmarks and other features one might discover or see along the
   way during a journey. Such maps are used for navigating from one place
   to another. They help us plan a trip and when we get lost by
   inadvertently making a wrong turn, we can turn to the roadmap for
   guidance to find our way quickly and easily back onto the path to our
   destination. In the world of solar system exploration, a "roadmap" is
   also a set of guidelines and explanations. However, it is a technology
   roadmap that seeks to define a long-range plan by which goals related
   to scientific research and technological development can be attained
   and their benefits realized.

   NASA's Roadmap for Solar System Exploration

   NASA's Strategic Plan charts the Agency's trajectory into the frontiers
   of flight, space, and knowledge. It explains the NASA Mission and why
   it is important for the U.S. and for humanity, and it describes how
   NASA will seek answers to fundamental questions of science and
   technology. The Plan contains specific goals and objectives, as well as
   "roadmaps" that outline or graphically depict anticipated progress
   toward achieving NASA's goals and objectives over a 25-year period. The
   initial roadmap timeframe (2000-2005) covers near-term plans, the
   period required by the Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA)
   and the President's 5-year budget. Mid- and long-term plans are
   presented in the 2006-2011 and 2012-2025 timeframes. These roadmaps and
   the goals and objectives they support represent a balanced set of
   science, exploration, and technology development outcomes that NASA
   believes can be accomplished during the first quarter of the 21st
   century. Achievement of the goals and objectives will contribute to
   national priorities: the protection of Earth's fragile environment,
   educational excellence, peaceful exploration and discovery, and
   economic growth and security.

   CISSR Roadmap

   CISSR Roadmap The CISSR Roadmap is intended as a guide to a long-range
   vision for in situ and sample return missions covering two decades
   (2000 through 2020). It provides a comparative timescale for a robust
   set of missions that will conduct in situ scientific studies in extreme
   environments on Earth and ultimately on celestial bodies ranging from
   Mars to the outer planets and their moons. These missions will attempt
   to acquire samples from all accessible bodies in the solar system and
   will carry out sample return from Mars by humans and robotically from
   other celestial bodies. The missions will require advanced capabilities
   for surface, subsurface, and atmospheric mobile exploration and will
   make use of a broad range of knowledge-based autonomous analytic
   systems. The Roadmap includes missions that are currently underway or
   for which planning is in progress, as well as missions that we hope
   will be possible within the two-decade time frame, keeping in mind
   possibilities for new discoveries, technical innovations, and
   international opportunities.

   For these missions to be possible and to ultimately succeed, technology
   advances such as the following will be necessary:
     * Sample handling and return technologies;
     * Validated processes and technologies for Planetary Protection;
     * Microanalytical laboratories;
     * Distributed Sensor Networks;
     * Highly survivable systems tolerant of temperature, pressure,
       radiation, and impact extremes;
     * Fully autonomous fault-tolerant platforms; and
     * Highly distributed and interactive knowledge-based platforms with
       advanced power sources.

   To view the CISSR Roadmap, click on the image above (requires Adobe
   Acrobat Reader).
   leftnav-bottom

   Last Updated: 07 Sept 2001
