http://www.kids.gov/k_health.htm




                               [smlsearch.gif]
                                   Search
    "" Logo image linking to FirstGov for Kids. Logo image linking to the
                     Federal Consumer Information Center
   Arts - Careers - Computers - Environment - Fighting Crime - Fun Stuff -
         Geography - Global Village - Government - Health - History
    Homework - Money - Music - Plants and Animals - Recreation - Safety -
                  Science and Math - Space - Transportation
                               Separator image
       Image of doctor with a stethoscope Health Wanna learn all about
       vaccines? What should you do after you touch raw meat? What are
    Antihistamines used for? Find out answers to these questions and more
                       clicking on these great links.
                               Separator image

                              Government Sites
               (these sites are not maintained by kids.gov *)
   Item America Museum of Natural History - Infection Detection Protection
   - Learn about microbes and infection. Learn about flu and how microbes
                                  spread.
   Item Department of Labor's Teen Safety Page - This site has facts about
                common on-the-job injuries of working teens.
     Item Drug Enforcement Administration - Explains about the types of
     drugs and the effects they can have on your body. The is site also
                      provides quizzes and activities.
    Item FDA Kids' Page - Learn about animal care, food safety, vaccines
           and much more about the Food and Drug Administration.
           Item Food Safety - Gateway to food safety information.
    Item For Kids Only - The National Clearinghouse for Alcohol and Drug
   Information advises - - be smart - don't start! Learn the facts on just
               saying no to alcohol, tobacco and other drugs.
    Item Girl Power - HHS addresses health messages to the unique needs,
             interests, and challenges of today's young girls.
   Item Global Health Odyssey - Mini Tour for Kids - Information of field
      investigations, health promotion, laboratory investigations, and
                              hazardous waste.
    Item healthfinder - Fun way to learn about health and safety issues.
   Item Indian Health Service Kids Page - Go to Indian Country with canine
    celebs McGruff and Scruff at the Indian Health Service's kid's page.
     This site features word-finds, a comic book, and a Native American
     newsletter for kids, but the best feature is the use of traditional
     Native American stories to teach kids decision-making skills about
                      alcohol, drugs, gangs and abuse.
    Item Kids Home at NCI - The National Cancer Institute addresses some
          concerns and questions kids may have about this illness.
     Item NIDCD Kids and Teachers - How loud is too loud? How does sound
     travel? The National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication
   Disorders (whew! that's a mouthful!) has the answers to these questions
                  and lots more info on hearing and sound.
   Item NIEHS Kids' Page - Learn how the environment affects your health.
    Get ideas for science projects, tackle some brainteasers, and more.
    Item Office of National Drug Control Policy - No lectures - just the
   facts. Learn the truth about drugs, how to be healthy, and best of all,
                              how to have fun!
   Item Smoke-Free Kids & Don't Smoke - The web site encourages adolescent
       girls (and boys!) to participate in soccer as a way to maintain
              physical fitness and resist pressures to smoke.
       Item The Mine Safety and Health Administration - Look here for
         information about the dangers of playing near or in mines.
    Item The National 4-H Web - 4-H is the youth education branch of the
        Cooperative Extension Service, a program of the United States
    Department of Agriculture. Each state and each county has access to a
    County Extension office for both youth and adult programs. 4-H is fun
    with friends. 4-H is learning and doing cool things. 4-H is meetings,
   camp, workshops, social activities, trips, and fairs. 4-H is leadership
    opportunities and helping others. 4-H is responsibility and hard work
                                and success.
    Item Tips4Youth - Tobacco Information and Prevention Source (TIPS) on
      how to save your money and your life! Plus some cool free stuff.
    Item USDA for Kids - Learn about resource conservation, gardening and
                    science to farming and food safety.
   Item USFA Kids Page - The U.S. Fire Administration's kids page is full
   of tips that can help you and your family be safe from fire. Test your
       knowledge identify fire hazards and escape planning knowledge.
    Item Vince & Larry's Safety City - Here is some important information
                 to keep in mind when you're out-and-about.

                             Organization Sites
                 (these sites are not maintained by kids.gov
   Item Attention Deficit Disorder - Kid's Area - Explains what ADD is and
                   provides tips on how to cope with ADD.
       Item Computer Ergonomics for Elementary Schools - The Computer
    Ergonomics for Elementary School Students (CergoS) Web site will show
   you some simple and affordable ways to make sure that your body is safe
                  and comfortable while using a computer.
   Item For Kids Only - Be Smart Don't Start - Provides information on how
    to start anti-drug campaigns at your school, how to help a friend or
       loved one with a drug problem, and tips on how to just say no.
   Item Kids Health for Kids - KidsHealth has information on dealing with
           feelings, staying healthy, diseases and fun stuff too.
    Item Youth to Youth - Children with Disabilities - Find lots of cool
    information that can help you learn more about disabilities affecting
                                   kids.

                              Commercial Sites
               (these sites are not maintained by kids.gov *)
    Item Brainpop.com - BrainPOP's unique, award-winning Health, Science
     and Technology (HS&T) content is based on original, animated movies
       created to explain the human body and the world around us in an
                  engaging, interactive journey for kids.
                               Separator image
    About this site - Sitemap - Contact Us - Kid's Privacy - Disclaimer -
                                 Link Policy
                               Separator image
