http://www.faa.gov/avr/afs/fars/far_idx.htm

   Skip to Main Content
   Home     Site Map     What's New     DOT     Ask FAA


   Search this site


   Links
   Electronic Code of
     Federal Regulations
   GPO Access
   FAA Office of
     Rulemaking
   FAA Regulatory
     Guidance Library
   DOT Document
     Mgmt. System
   Requests for
     Information
   Legal Interpretations

   Title 14, Code of Federal Regulations (14 CFR)
   Links to Regulatory Web Sites and Related Information

   The Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) catalogs rules adopted by the
   Federal Government. The CFR divides the rules into 50 titles covering
   all areas subject to Federal regulation. Title 14 contains rules
   related to aviation and space. Although the Office of the Federal
   Register publishes a new paper version of each title once a year, the
   new on-line version is updated more frequently.

   Current Regulations links you to the Electronic Code of Federal
   Regulations (e-CFR). This site contains an up-to-date listing of the
   FAA regulations in effect today.

   Historical Regulations links you to the FAA's regulatory guidance
   library (RGL), a set of searchable databases containing regulatory and
   aviation information. The RGL provides an historical record of
   amendments to selected parts of Title 14. You may find this site
   particularly useful for determining those regulations in place when
   your aircraft was first manufactured. It includes all amendments since
   changing from the Civil Aviation Regulations to Title 14.

   You can get official paper copies of Title 14 from the National
   Archives and Records Administration's (NARA), Office of the Federal
   Register (OFR) , Government Printing Office (GPO).

   Other Regulatory Information:

   U.S. Government Printing Office (GPO) ACCESS Home Page
   includes links and search capabilities for the following types of
   documents:
     * Public Laws
     * List of Sections Affected
     * Congressional Bills
     * Online Bookstore

   Requests for legal interpretations

   Requests for legal interpretations of a Federal Aviation Regulation
   must be sent in writing to:
   Federal Aviation Administration
   800 Independence Ave. S.W.
   Washington, D.C. 20591
   Attention: Office of the Chief Counsel

   The Government Printing Office (GPO) processes all sales and
   distribution of the CFR. For payment by credit card, call (202)
   512-1800, M F, 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. EST or fax your order to (202)
   512-2233, 24 hours a day.
   Requests for Information
   Requests for information or policy concerning a particular part or
   section of Title 14 CFR (parts 1-199 and 400-450) should be sent to the
   FAA's Office of Primary Interest (OPI). If the OPI is not known, please
   call the FAA's Consumer Hotline, toll free, at 1-800-322-7873.
