http://www.comda.ca.gov/1085.html

   Chapter 3.  Dental Auxiliaries

   Article 5.  Duties and Settings
   1085.  Dental Assistant Duties and Settings
   1086.  RDA Duties and Settings
   1087.  RDAEF Duties and Settings
   1088.  RDH Duties and Settings
   1089.  RDHEF Duties and Settings
   1090. RDHAP Duties and Settings
   1090.1 RDHAP Documentation of Dentist Relationship
   1085.  Dental Assistant Duties and Settings.
      (a) Unless specifically so provided by regulation, a dental
   assistant may not perform the following functions or any other activity
   which represents the practice of dentistry or requires the knowledge,
   skill and training of a licensed dentist:
      (1) Diagnosis and treatment planning;
      (2) Surgical or cutting procedures on hard or soft tissue;
      (3) Fitting and adjusting of correctional and prosthodontic
   appliances;
      (4) Prescription of medicines;
      (5) Placement, condensation, carving or removal of permanent
   restorations, including final cementation procedures;
      (6) Irrigation and medication of canals, try--in cones, reaming,
   filing or filling of root canals;
      (7) Taking of impressions for prosthodontic appliances, bridges or
   any other structures which may be worn in the mouth;
      (8) Administration of injectable and/or general anesthesia;
      (9) Oral prophylaxis procedures.
      (b) A dental assistant may perform such basic supportive dental
   procedures as the following under  the general supervision of a
   licensed dentist:
      (1) Extra--oral duties or functions specified by the supervising
   dentist;
      (2) Operation of dental radiographic equipment for the purpose of
   oral radiography if the dental     assistant has complied with the
   requirements of section 1656 of the Code.
      (3) Examine orthodontic appliances.
      (c) A dental assistant may perform such basic supportive dental
   procedures as the following under the direct supervision of a licensed
   dentist when done so pursuant to the order, control and full
   professional responsibility of the supervising dentist.  Such
   procedures shall be checked and approved by the supervising dentist
   prior to dismissal of the patient from the office of said dentist.
      (1) Take impressions for diagnostic and opposing models, bleaching
   trays, temporary crowns and bridges, and sports guards;
      (2) Apply non--aerosol and non--caustic topical agents;
      (3) Remove post--extraction and periodontal dressings;
      (4) Placement of elastic orthodontic separators;
      (5) Remove orthodontic separators;
      (6) Assist in the administration of nitrous oxide analgesia or
   sedation; however, a dental assistant shall not start the
   administration of the gases  and shall not adjust the flow of the gases
   unless instructed to do so by the dentist who shall be present at the
   patient's chairside at the implementation of these instructions.  This
   regulation shall not be constructed to prevent any person from taking
   appropriate action in the event of a medical emergency.
      (7) Hold anterior matrices;
      (8) Remove sutures;
      (9) Take intra--oral measurements for orthodontic procedures;
     (10) Seat adjusted retainers or headgears, including appropriate
   instructions;
     (11) Check for loose bands;
     (12) Remove arch wires;
     (13) Remove ligature ties;
     (14) Apply topical fluoride, after scaling and polishing by the
   supervising dentist or a registered dental hygienist;
     (15) Place and remove rubber dams;
     (16) Place, wedge and remove matrices.
     For the purpose of this section a supervising licensed dentist is
   defined as a dentist whose patient is receiving the services of a
   dental assistant in the treatment facility and is under the direct
   control of said licensed dentist.
     (17) Cure restorative or orthodontic materials in operative site with
   light-curing device.
   Note Authority cited: Section 1614, Business and Professions Code.
   Reference: Section 1751,Business and Professions Code.
   1086.  RDA Duties and Settings.
      (a) Unless specifically so provided by regulation, the prohibitions
   contained in section 1085 of these regulations apply to registered
   dental assistants.
      (b) A registered dental assistant may perform all functions which
   may be performed by a dental assistant.
      (c) Under general supervision, a registered dental assistant may
   perform the  following duties:
     (1) Mouth-mirror inspection of the oral cavity, to include charting
   of obvious lesions, existing restorations and missing teeth;
     (2) Placement and removal of temporary sedative dressings.
      (d) A registered dental assistant may perform the following
   procedures under the direct supervision of a licensed dentist when done
   so pursuant to the order, control and full   professional
   responsibility of the supervising dentist.  Such   procedures shall be
   checked and approved by the supervising     dentist prior to dismissal
   of the patient from the office of     said dentist.
     (1) Obtain endodontic cultures;
     (2) Dry canals, previously opened by the supervising dentist,  with
   absorbent points;
     (3) Test pulp vitality;
     (4) Place bases and liners on sound dentin;
     (5) Remove excess cement from supragingival surfaces of teeth with a
   hand instrument or floss;
     (6) Size stainless steel crowns, temporary crowns and bands;
     (7) Fabrication of temporary crowns intra-orally;
     (8) Temporary cementation and removal of temporary crowns and
   removal of orthodontic bands;
     (9) Placement of orthodontic separators;
    (10) Placement and ligation of arch wires;
    (11) Placement of post-extraction and periodontal dressings;
   (12) Apply bleaching agents;
   (13) Activate bleaching agents with non-laser light-curing device;
    (14) Take bite registrations for diagnostic models for case study
   only;
    (15) Coronal polishing (Evidence of satisfactory completion of a
   board-approved course of instruction in this function must be submitted
   to the board prior to any performance thereof).
   The processing times for coronal polishing course approval are set
   forth in section 1069.
   This procedure shall not be intended or interpreted as a complete oral
   prophylaxis (a procedure which can be performed only by a licensed
   dentist or registered dental hygienist).  A licensed dentist or
   registered dental hygienist shall determine that the teeth to be
   polished are free of calculus or other extraneous material prior to
   coronal polishing.
    (16) Removal of excess cement from coronal surfaces of teeth under
   orthodontic treatment by means of an ultrasonic scaler.  (Evidence of
   satisfactory completion of  a board-approved course of instruction or
   equivalent instruction in an approved RDA program in this function must
   be submitted to the board prior to any performance thereof.) The
   processing times for ultrasonic scaler course approval are set forth in
   section 1069.
      (e) Settings.  Registered dental assistants may undertake the duties
   authorized by this section in a treatment facility under the
   jurisdiction and control of the supervising licensed dentist, or in an
   equivalent facility approved by the board.
   Note Authority cited: Section 1614, Business and Professions Code.
   Reference: Sections 1614 and 1754, Business and Professions Code; and
   Section 15376, Government Code.
   1087.  RDAEF Duties and Settings.
     (a) Unless specifically so provided by regulation, the prohibitions
   contained in Section 1085 apply to RDAEFs.
     (b) An RDAEF may perform all duties assigned to dental assistants and
   registered dental assistants.
     (c) An RDAEF may perform the procedures set forth below under the
   direct supervision of a licensed dentist when done so pursuant to the
   order, control and full professional responsibility of the supervising
   dentist.  Such procedures shall be checked and approved by the
   supervising dentist prior to dismissal of the patient from the office
   of said dentist.
     (1) Cord retraction of gingivae for impression procedures;
     (2) Take impressions for cast restorations;
     (3) Take impressions for space maintainers, orthodontic appliances
   and occlusal guards.
     (4) Prepare enamel by etching for bonding;
     (5) Formulate indirect patterns for endodontic post and core
   castings;
     (6) Fit trial endodontic filling points;
     (7) Apply pit and fissure sealants;
     (8) Remove excess cement from subgingival tooth surfaces with a hand
   instrument;
     (9) Apply etchant for bonding restorative materials.
     (d) Settings.  Registered dental assistants in extended functions may
   undertake the duties authorized by this section in a treatment facility
   under the jurisdiction and control of the supervising licensed dentist,
   or in an equivalent facility approved by the board.
   Note Authority cited: Section 1614, Business and Professions Code.
   Reference: Sections 1614, 1756 and 1757, Business and Professions Code.
   1088.  RDH Duties and Settings.
     (a) Unless specifically so provided by regulation, the prohibition
   contained in Section 1085(a), subsections (1) through (8) of these
   regulations shall apply to duties performed by a registered dental
   hygienist.
     (b) A registered dental hygienist may perform all duties assigned to
   dental  assistants and registered dental assistants, under the
   supervision of a licensed dentist as specified in these regulations.
     (c) Under general supervision, a registered dental hygienist may
   perform the following duties in addition to those provided by Section
   1760(b) of the Code:
     (1) Root planing;
     (2) Polish and contour restorations;
     (3) Oral exfoliative cytology;
     (4) Apply pit and fissure sealants;
     (5) Preliminary examination, including but not limited to:
     (A) Periodontal charting;
     (B) Intra and extra-oral examination of soft tissue;
     (C) Charting of lesions, existing restorations and missing teeth;
     (D) Classifying occlusion;
     (E) Myofunctional evaluation;
     (6) Irrigate sug-gingivally with an antimicrobial and/or antibiotic
   liquid solutions(s).
     (7) The following direct supervision duties of dental assistants and
   registered dental assistants:
     (A) Dental Assistant.
     (1) Taking impressions for diagnostic and opposing models;
     (2) Applying non-aerosol and non-caustic topical agents;
     (3) Removing post-extraction and periodontal dressings;
     (4) Removing sutures;
     (5) Taking intra-oral measurements for orthodontic procedures;
     (6) Checking for loose bands;
     (7) Removing ligature ties;
     (8) Applying topical fluoride;
     (9) Placing elastic separators.
     (B) Registered Dental Assistant
     (1) Test pulp vitality;
     (2) Removing excess cement from supragingival surfaces of teeth;
     (3) Sizing stainless steel crowns, temporary crowns and bands;
     (4) Temporary cementation and removal of temporary crowns and removal
   of orthodontic bands.
     (5) Placing post-extraction and periodontal dressings.
     (d) A registered dental hygienist may perform the procedures set
   forth below under the direct supervision of a licensed dentist when
   done so pursuant to the order, control and full professional
   responsibility of the supervising dentist.  Such procedures shall be
   checked and approved by the supervising dentist prior to dismissal of
   the patient from the office of said dentist.
     (1) Placement of Antimicrobial or Antibiotic Medicaments which do not
   later have to be removed.
     (2) All duties so assigned to a dental assistant or a registered
   dental assistant, unless otherwise indicated;
     (3) Periodontal soft tissue curettage (Evidence of satisfactory
   completion of a board-approved course of instruction in this function
   must be submitted to the board prior to any performance thereof);
     (4) Administration of local anesthetic agents, infiltration and
   conductive, limited to the oral cavity (Evidence of satisfactory
   completion of a board-approved course of instruction in this function
   must be submitted to the board prior to any
   performance thereof);
     (5) Administration of nitrous oxide and oxygen when used as an
   analgesic, utilizing fail-safe type machines containing no other
   general anesthetic agents.  (Evidence of satisfactory completion of a
   board-approved course of instruction in this function must be submitted
   to the board prior to any performance thereof)
     (e) A registered dental hygienist may undertake the duties authorized
   by this section in the following settings, provided the appropriate
   supervision requirements are met:
     (1) The treatment facility of a licensed dentist;
     (2) Licensed health facilities as defined in Section 1250 of the
   Health and Safety Code,
     (3) Licensed clinics as defined in Section 1203 of the Health and
   Safety Code,
     (4) Licensed community care facilities as defined in Section 1502 of
   the Health and Safety Code,
     (5) Schools of any grade level whether public or private,
     (6) Public institutions, including but not limited to federal, state
   and local penal and correctional facilities.
     (7) Mobile units operated by a public or governmental agency or a
   nonprofit and charitable organization approved by the board; provided,
   however, that the mobile unit meets the statutory and regulatory
   requirements for mobile units,
     (8) Home of a non-ambulatory patient, provided there is a written
   note from a physician or registered nurse stating that the patient is
   unable to visit a dental office.
     (9) Health fairs or similar non-profit community activities.  Each
   such fair or activity shall be approved by the board.
     Any other facility must be approved by the board.
   Note Authority cited: Section 1614, Business and Professions Code.
   Reference: Section 1614 and 1759, Business and Professions Code.
   1089.  RDHEF Duties and Settings.
     (a) Unless specifically provided by regulation, the prohibitions
   contained in Section 1085(a) (1) through (8) shall apply to RDHEFs.
     (b) A RDHEF may perform all duties assigned to dental assistants,
   registered dental assistants and registered dental hygienists.
     (c) A RDHEF may perform the procedures set forth below under the
   direct supervision of a licensed dentist when done so pursuant to the
   order, control and full professional responsibility of the supervising
   dentist.  Such procedures shall be checked and approved by the
   supervising dentist prior to dismissal of the patient from the office
   of said dentist.
     (1) Cord retraction of gingivae for impression procedures;
     (2) Take impressions for cast restorations;
     (3) Take impressions for space maintainers, orthodontic appliances
   and guards;
     (4) Prepare enamel by etching for bonding;
     (5) Formulate indirect patterns for endodontic post and core
   castings;
     (6) Fit trial endodontic filling points;
     (7) Apply etchant for bonding restorative materials.
     (d) Settings.  Registered dental hygienists in extended functions may
   undertake the duties authorized by this section in a treatment facility
   under the jurisdiction and control of the supervising dentist, or an
   equivalent facility approved by the board.
   Note Authority cited: Section 1614, Business and Professions Code.
   Reference: Sections 1614 and 1762, Business and Professions Code.
   Amendment of subsection (c) filed 6-20-85; effective thirtieth day
   thereafter (Register 85, No.  25).  Repealer and new subsections (c)
   and (d) and amendment filed 2-28-92; operative 3-30-92 (Register 92,
   No. 12).

   Section 1090. RDHAP Duties and Settings.
   (a) Unless specifically so provided by regulation, an RDHAP may not
   perform the following functions or any activity which represents the
   practice of dentistry or requires knowledge, skill and training of a
   licensed dentist:
    (1) Diagnosing and treatment planning;
    (2) Surgical or cutting procedures on hard or soft tissue;
    (3) Fitting and adjusting of correctional and prosthodontic
   appliances;
    (4) Prescribing medication;
    (5) Placing, condensing, carving or removal of permanent restorations,
   including final   cementation procedures;
    (6) Irrigating and medicating canals, try-in cones, reaming, filing or
   filling of root canals;
    (7) Taking of impressions for prosthodontic appliances, bridges, or
   any other devices which  may be worn in the mouth;
    (8) Administering local or general anesthesia, oral or parenteral
   conscious sedation.
   (b) Under the supervision of a licensed dentist, an RDHAP may perform
   the duties assigned to registered dental hygienists by Section 1088,
   under the same levels of supervision and in the same settings as
   specified in that section.
   (c) Independently and without the supervision of a licensed dentist, an
   RDHAP may, upon the prescription of a dentist or a physician and
   surgeon licensed in California, perform the duties assigned to a
   registered dental hygienist by Section 1088(c).
   (d) All prescriptions shall contain the following information:
    (1)  The preprinted name, address, license number, and signature of
   the prescribing dentist, or  physician and surgeon.
    (2)  The name, address and phone number of patient, as well as, the
   specific    services and any special instructions.
    (3) The date the services are prescribed and the expiration date of
   the prescription.
   Prescriptions shall be maintained as a part of the patients permanent
   RDHAP records.
   If during the course of providing treatment prescribed by a dentist or
   physician and surgeon a temporary restoration becomes dislodged or an
   elastic separator comes off, an RDHAP may re-cement the temporary
   restoration or replace the elastic separator upon the verbal or written
   approval of a dentist or physician and surgeon.
   Note Authority cited: Section 1614, Business and Professions Code.
   Reference: Section 1614 and 1768, Business and Professions Code.

   1090.1.  RDHAP Documentation of Dentist Relationship
   Prior to the establishment of an independent practice, an RDHAP shall
   provide to the board documentation of an existing relationship with at
   least one dentist for referral, consultation, and emergency services,
   on the form titled: Documentation of RDHAP Relationship with Dentist,
   (rev.5/99), which is hereby incorporated by reference .  The dentist's
   license shall be current, active and not under discipline by the
   board.  Any changes shall be reported to the Board in writing, within
   30 days following such change.
   Note Authority cited: Section 1614, Business and Professions Code.
   Reference: Sections 1770, Business and Professions Code.
