http://leahy.senate.gov/press/200201/012502.html

   Skip to main content


                         U.S. SENATOR PATRICK LEAHY

CONTACT: Office of Senator Leahy, 202-224-4242

                                                                              VERMONT
        __________________________________________________________________



                      Statement Of Sen. Patrick Leahy,
                    Chairman, Senate Judiciary Committee
                    Judicial Nominations: The Way Forward
                                Senate Floor
   Jan. 25, 2002

   I appreciate the Majority Leader and the Assistant Majority Leader
   moving to consider additional judicial nominations today. They have
   worked hard to return the Senates consideration of judicial nominations
   to a more orderly and open process.

   Along with our Senate leaders, many have been working to help move away
   from the anonymous holds and inaction on judicial nominations that
   characterized so much of the period from 1996 through 2000. Since the
   change in majority last summer we already have made a difference, in
   terms of both the process and its results. The number of vacancies and
   the number of confirmations have finally begun to move in the right
   directions.

   As we begin this new session I will take a moment to report where we
   are in the handling of judicial nominations and to outline the road
   ahead. I will touch on the legacy of the last six years that has left a
   residue of problems that will take continuing effort to purge. Then I
   will offer the steps that we in the majority will take, in good faith,
   to undo the damage of the last six years, and I will call on the White
   House to take similar steps to help us move this process forward.

   A GOOD BEGINNING

   In the span of just six months, and in a year that was tumultuous for
   the Nation and for the Senate, the Judiciary Committee between July and
   the end of the session in December held hearings on 34 judicial
   nominees and approved 32, and the Senate confirmed 28. I expect we will
   be adding to that tally today. Nearly all are conservative Republicans,
   and nearly all were unanimously approved by Democrats and Republicans
   and Independents alike, on the Judiciary Committee and by the Senate,
   by a Democratically controlled Senate.

   We reported more judicial nominees after the August recess than in any
   of the preceding six years and more than in any similar period over the
   preceding six and one-half years. Having not a year but only six months
   to work with, not only did the Senate confirm almost twice as many
   judges as were confirmed in the first year of the earlier Bush
   Administration, we confirmed more judges -- including twice as many
   judges to the Courts of Appeals -- as in the first year of the Clinton
   Administration. The Senate confirmed the first new member of the 5^th
   Circuit in seven years, the first new judge on the 4^th Circuit in
   three years, and the first new judge on the 10^th Circuit in six years.

   Of course more than two-thirds of the federal court vacancies continue
   to be on the District Courts. The Administration has been slow to make
   nominations to the vacancies on these trial courts. In the last five
   months of last year, the Senate confirmed a higher percentage of the
   Presidents trial court nominees, 22 out of 36, than a Republican
   majority had allowed the Senate to confirm in the first session of
   either of the last two Congresses with a Democratic President. Last
   year the White House did not make nominations to almost 80 percent of
   the current trial court vacancies. We began this session with 55 out of
   69 vacancies without nominees.

   We have acted to build better practices into the process to make the
   confirmation process for federal judges more orderly. We made some
   progress at the end of last year, when after many months the White
   House and our Republican colleagues finally agreed to limited steps to
   update and simplify our Committee questionnaire.

   By the time the Judiciary Committee was reorganized and began its work
   last summer, the vacancies on the federal courts were peaking at 111.
   Since then 25 additional vacancies have arisen. Through hard work in
   the limited time available to us, we were able to outpace this high
   level of attrition. By contrast, when Republicans took charge of the
   Senate in January 1995 until the majority shifted last summer, judicial
   vacancies rose from 65 to more than 100, an increase of almost 60
   percent.

   We also held 16 confirmation hearings in the last five months of last
   year for Executive Branch nominees, and we sent to the Senate nominees
   who were confirmed for 77 senior Executive Branch posts including the
   Director of the FBI, the head of the DEA, the Commissioner of INS, the
   Director of the U.S. Marshals Service, the Associate Attorney General,
   the Director of ONDCP, the Director of PTO, seven Assistants Attorney
   General, and 59 U.S. attorneys.

   Senators will recall that soon after Judge Gregorys confirmation last
   July, the White House Counsel said in an interview that he did not
   expect the Senate to confirm more than five judges before the end of
   2001. That was actually a revision up from the initial charges from
   some on the other side of the aisle after the mid-year change in
   majority that the Democratic majority would not confirm a single judge.
   One might have thought from the constant barrage of partisan criticism
   that 2001 resembled 1996, a year in which a Republican Senate majority
   confirmed only 17 judges, none of them appellate-level nominees. The
   worst fear of some, it has been clear, is that Democrats would treat
   Republican nominees as poorly as Democratic judicial nominees were
   treated by a Republican Senate. That is not what happened. In just five
   months, we went on to confirm more than five times the number predicted
   by the White House Counsel.

   The Committee also has opened up the process as never before. For the
   first time, the Judiciary Committee is making public the "blue slips"
   sent to home state Senators. Until last summer, these matters were
   treated as confidential materials and restricted from public view. We
   have moved nominees with less time from hearings to the Committees
   business meeting agenda, and then out to the floor, where nominees have
   received timely roll call votes and confirmations. Over the preceding
   six and one-half years, at least eight judicial nominees who completed
   a confirmation hearing were never considered by the Committee and
   simply abandoned, without action.

   Also, the past practices of extended unexplained anonymous holds on
   nominees after a hearing were not evident in the last five months of
   last year as they had been in the recent past.

   Yesterday, the Judiciary Committee held another hearing for judicial
   nominees, the twelfth since last July. The Senate can be proud of its
   record in the First Session of the 107^th Congress of beginning to
   restore steadiness in its handling of judicial nominees, and we are
   prepared to build on that record in the Second Session.

   THE LEGACY OF THE LAST SIX YEARS

   The legacy of the strife over the filling of judicial vacancies that we
   all must work to overcome began in 1996, when months went by without
   the Republican Senate acting on judicial nominations from a Democratic
   president.

   Later that year outside groups began forming to raise money on their
   pledge to block action on judicial nominees.

   As the new session opened in 1997, efforts were launched on the
   Republican side of the aisle to slow the pace of Judiciary Committee
   and Senate proceedings on judicial nominations and to erect new
   obstacles for nominees. The results were soon apparent throughout the
   process, and they persisted throughout the remainder of President
   Clintons Administration.

   In the six years that a Republican majority was considering President
   Clintons judicial nominations, more than 50 nominees never received a
   hearing and a Committee vote. They included Judge James A. Beaty, Jr.
   Judge James Wynn, and J. Rich Leonard, nominees to longstanding
   vacancies on the 4^th Circuit; Judge Helene White, Kathleen
   McCree-Lewis and Professor Kent Markus, nominees to the 6^th Circuit;
   Allen Snyder and Professor Elana Kagan, nominees to vacancies on the
   D.C. Circuit; James Duffy and Barry Goode, nominees to the 9^th
   Circuit; Bonnie Campbell, the former Attorney General of Iowa and
   former head of the Violence Against Women Office at the Department of
   Justice, nominated to the 8^th Circuit; Jorge Rangel, H. Alston Johnson
   and Enrique Moreno, each nominated to the 5^th Circuit; Robert Raymar
   and Robert Cindrich, among the nominees to the 3d Circuit; and District
   Court nominees like Anabelle Rodriguez, John Bingler, Michael
   Schattman, Lynette Norton, Legrome Davis, Fred Woocher, Patricia Coan,
   Dolly Gee, David Fineman, Ricardo Morado, David Cercone, and Clarence
   Sundram.

   None of these qualified nominees were given a vote.

   Over the course of those years, Senate consideration of nominations was
   often delayed for not months but years. It took more than four years of
   work to get the Senate to vote on the nominations of Judge Richard Paez
   and Judge William Fletcher; almost three years to confirm Judge Hilda
   Tagle; more than two years to confirm Judge Susan Mollway, Judge Ann
   Aiken, Judge Timothy Dyk, Judge Marsha Berzon and Judge Ronald Gould;
   almost two years to confirm judge Margaret McKeown and Judge Margaret
   Morrow and more than a year to confirm several others during the
   preceding six and one-half years of Republican control.

   During those years, the Republican majority in the Senate went entire
   sessions without confirming a single judge for the Courts of Appeals.
   As few as three appellate nominees were granted hearings and committee
   votes in an entire session. During that time, the Republican majority
   averaged eight hearings a year for judicial nominees and had as few as
   six during one entire session. One session of Congress, the Republican
   majority allowed only 17 judges to be confirmed all year, and that
   included not a single judge to any Court of Appeals. All the while, the
   judicial vacancy rate continued to worsen.

   The problems did not end when President Clinton left office. New
   problems have arisen through unilateral actions taken by the Bush
   Administration in its handling of judicial nominations. When the new
   Republican White House decided to summarily end the 50- year practice,
   by Presidents of both parties, of allowing peer reviews of candidates
   by the American Bar Association to begin under White House auspices,
   that change alone added months to the Senates clock in the handling of
   each nomination.

   Similarly, the Bush Administrations unilateral approach in vetting
   nominees, virtually disregarding the Senates longstanding practices
   that encourage consultation with home-state Senators, had needlessly
   complicated the Senates handling of several of the Presidents nominees.
   Nor has the White House responded to our repeated requests to help the
   Senate work through residual issues caused by the Republican Senates
   earlier actions and inactions relating to several Circuit Courts. These
   are problems that have grown and festered over time and cannot all be
   remedied immediately, especially in the absence of White House
   cooperation.

   THE WAY FORWARD

   We have made a good beginning in the first six months of Democratic
   leadership in the Senate. But the way forward will not be easy, and
   continued progress will require leadership and cooperation and good
   will within the Senate and by the White House.

   These are the steps that the Judiciary Committee will take in good
   faith
   :

   First
   , we will restore steadiness in the hearing process. The Committee will
   hold regular hearings at a pace that will exceed the pace of the last
   six years. Following longstanding committee practice, each hearing
   typically will involve several nominees one Circuit Court nominee and
   several district court nominees.

   Since the Senates reorganization last July, we have convened judicial
   nominations hearings each and every month. By contrast, in the 72
   months that the Republican majority most recently controlled scheduling
   such hearings, in 30 of those months no hearings were held at all and
   in another 34 months only one was held.

   Yesterday we held our 12^th hearing since July. If we are able to keep
   to this pace, we will hold more hearings this session than were held in
   any of the six and one-half years of Republican control and more than
   twice as many as were held in some of those years.

   Second
   , we will include hearings for a number of controversial nominees who
   do not have blue slip problems. We will convene a hearing the week
   after next on the nomination of Charles W. Pickering for the Fifth
   Circuit Court of Appeals. I fully expect that we also will have
   hearings on other nominations for which consensus will be difficult,
   including such nominees as Judge Priscilla Owen, Professor Michael
   McConnell, and Miguel Estrada.

   And third, we will continue to seek a cooperative and constructive
   working relationship with our colleagues on the other side of the aisle
   and with the White House to make the confirmation process more orderly,
   less antagonistic, and more productive.

   Finding our way forward out of the legacy of the last six years will
   also require White House cooperation.

   Today I ask the President, for his part, to consider several steps,
   each of which make a tangible improvement in the consideration of
   judicial nominations
   .

   First
   , the most progress can be made most quickly if the White House would
   begin working with home state Senators to identify fair-minded,
   nonideological, consensus nominees to fill these court vacancies. One
   of the reasons that the Committee and the Senate were able to work as
   rapidly as we did in confirming 28 judges in the last five months was
   because those nominations were strongly supported as consensus nominees
   by people from across the political and legal spectrums.

   I have heard of too many situations, in too many States, involving too
   many reasonable and constructive home state Senators, in which the
   White House has shown no willingness to work to cooperatively find
   candidates to fill vacancies. The White Houses unilateralism is not the
   way the process is intended to work, and it is not the way the process
   has worked under past administrations. I urge the White House to show
   greater inclusiveness and flexibility and to help make this a truly
   bipartisan enterprise. Logjams persist in several settings, the legacy
   of the last six years. To make real progress, the White House and the
   Senate should work together to repair the damage and move forward.

   The Constitution directs the President to seek the Senates advice and
   consent in his appointments to the federal courts. The lack of effort
   on the advice side of that obligation gives rise to a general
   impression, heightened by the White Houses refusal to work
   cooperatively with some home state Democratic Senators, and by its
   unwillingness to listen to suggestions to continue the bipartisan
   commissions that have been a tradition in many states, that the White
   House and some in the Senate are intent on an ideological takeover of
   the courts. With the Circuits so evenly split in so many places,
   nominees to the Courts of Appeals may have a significant impact on the
   development of the law for decades to come. Some of us are concerned
   that there not be a roll back in the protections of individual rights,
   civil rights, workers rights, consumer rights, privacy rights and
   environmental protection.

   Second
   , I ask the President to reconsider his early decision on peer review
   vetting, which has needlessly added months to the time required to
   begin the hearing process for each nominee. For more than 50 years the
   American Bar Association was able to conduct its peer reviews
   simultaneously with the FBI background check procedures. This meant
   that when nominations were sent to the Senate, the FBI report and ABA
   peer review arrived soon afterward. We had occasions last year when we
   proceeded with hearings with fewer District Court nominees than I would
   have liked because recent nominees files were not yet complete. I fear
   that same problem will be repeated this year. For example, the FBI and
   ABA background materials on the 24 District Court nominations being
   received this week cannot be anticipated before late March or April.
   That is regrettable, and it is avoidable.

   Just as no Senator is bound by the recommendations of the ABA, so, too,
   the White House can make clear that it is restoring this traditional
   practice not because it intends to be bound by the results of that peer
   review or even take it into account, but solely to remove an element of
   delay that it had inadvertently introduced into the confirmation
   process. The White House can expressly ask the ABA not even to send the
   results of its peer review to the Executive but proceed only to
   transmit them to the Committee, if it chooses. Few actions available to
   either the Senate or the White House can make as constructive a
   contribution as would the Presidents resolution of this problem, and I
   ask him to seriously and thoughtfully consider taking it.

   CONCLUSION

   Whether we succeed will depend in large measure on whether those goals
   are shared by Republican Senators and the White House. We will not have
   repaired the damage that has been done if we make progress this year
   and the improvements we are able to make are not institutionalized and
   continued the next time a Democratic President is the one making
   judicial nominations. To date, we have yet to hear Republicans concede
   any shortcomings in the practices they employed over the previous six
   and one-half years. Since the change in majority last summer, we have
   been exceeding their pace and productivity over the prior six and
   one-half years. If their efforts were acceptable, or as praiseworthy as
   some would argue, I would expect them to commend our better efforts
   since July. If they did things they now regret, their admissions would
   go far to helping establish a common basis of understanding and
   comparison. Taking that step would be a significant gesture. It is
   something that has not yet occurred.

   These nominees we are voting on this morning are clear evidence, again,
   that consensus nominees with widespread and bipartisan support are more
   easily and more quickly considered by the Committee and confirmed by
   the Senate.

   There are still far too many judicial vacancies, and we must work
   together to fill them. We have finally begun moving the confirmation
   and vacancy numbers in the right direction.

   The way forward is difficult. Democrats, alone, cannot achieve what
   should be our common goal of regaining the ground lost over the last
   six years. But all of us together can achieve that. I invite each with
   a role in this process to join in that effort.

                                  # # # # #


   Left banner
   Return to Home Page Senator Leahy's Biography For Vermonters Major
   Issues Press Releases and Statements Senator Leahy's Office Constituent
   Services Search this site
