http://www.crab.wa.gov/documents/privacy.pdf

   County Road Administration Board Privacy Notice Introduction: Thank you
   for visiting the State of Washington County Road Administration Board
   web site and reviewing our Internet Privacy Notice. This statement
   notice addresses information that may be obtained by us through your
   use of our website. The following topics are covered: 1. Notice of
   Information Collected and How it is Used 2. Personal Information and
   Choice 3. Public Access to Information 4. Cookies 5. Security 6.
   Disclaimer 7. Contact Information 1. Notice on Information Collected
   and How it is Used If you do nothing during your visit to our web site
   but browse, read pages, or download information, we collect no
   information from you. If you send us e-mail If you send us an e-mail,
   we will collect the e-mail address and the contents of the e-mail. The
   information collected is not limited to text characters and may include
   any audio, video, and graphic information formats you send us. We use
   your e-mail to respond appropriately. This may be to respond to you, to
   address issues you may identify, to further improve our web site, or to
   forward the e-mail to another agency for appropriate action. If you
   fill out a registration form or questionnaire This site contains forms
   for registration to conferences and questionnaires about our services.
   All of the information requested and collected on our registration
   forms are of a non-sensitive personal information nature. 2. Personal
   Information and Choice You may choose whether to provide personal
   information on-line. "Personal information" is information about a
   natural person that is readily identifiable to that specific
   individual. Personal information includes such things as an
   individual's name, address, and phone number. A domain name or internet
   protocol address is not considered personal information. We collect no
   personal information about you unless you volunatarily provide it to us
   by sending us email. You may choose not to contact us by email. Your
   choice to not participate in this activity will not impair your ability
   to browse CRAB's web site and read or download any information provided
   on the site. If personal information is requested on the web site or
   volunteered by the user, state law and the federal Privacy Act of 1974
   may protect it. However, this information is a public record once you
   provide it, and may be subject to public inspection and copying if not
   protected by federal or state law. If you believe that your "personal
   information" is being used for a purpose other than what was intended
   when submitted, you may contact the Executive Director of CRAB at (360)
   753-5989. Users are cautioned that the collection of personal
   information requested from or volunteered by children on-line or by
   e-mail will be treated the same as information given by an adult, and
   may be subject to public access. 3. Public Access to Information In the
   State of Washington, laws exist to ensure that government is open and
   accessible to citizens. This means that the public has a right to
   access appropriate records and information possessed by state
   government. At the same time, there are exceptions to the public's
   right to access public records that serve various public policy
   objectives and needs, including the privacy of individuals. Both state
   and federal laws provide exceptions. All of the information collected
   at this site becomes public records that may be subject to inspection
   and copying by members of the public, unless an exception in law
   exists. RCW 42.17.260(1) states that Each agency, in accordance with
   published rules, shall make available for public inspection and copying
   all public records, unless the record falls within the specific
   exemptions of (6) of this section [RCW 42.17.260(6)], RCW 42.17.310,
   42,17.315, or other statute which exempts or prohibits disclosure of
   specific information or records. To the extent required to prevent an
   unreasonable invasion of personal privacy interests protected by RCW
   42.17.310 and 42.17.315, an agency shall delete identifying details in
   a manner consistent with RCW 42.17.310 and 42.17.315 when it makes
   available or publishes any public record; however, in each case, the
   justification for the deletion shall be explained fully in writing. In
   the event of a conflict between this Privacy Notice and the Public
   Records Disclosure Act or other law governing the agency's disclosure
   of records, the Public Records Act or other applicable law will
   control. 4. Cookies This site does not currently use "cookies". 5.
   Security The County Road Administration Board, as developer and manager
   of this web site, has taken several steps to safeguard the integrity of
   its data and prevent unauthorized access to information maintained by
   our office. These measures are designed and intended to prevent
   corruption of data, block unknown or unauthorized access to our systems
   and information, and to provide reasonable protection of private
   information in our possession. This information should not be construed
   in any way as giving business, legal, or other advice, or warranting as
   fail proof, the security of information provided via CRAB's web site.
   6. Disclaimer The County Road Administration Board's web site has many
   links to other web sites. These include links to web sites operated by
   other government agencies, nonprofit organizations and private
   businesses. When you link to another site, you are no longer on the
   CRAB web site and this Privacy Notice will not apply. When you link to
   another web site, you are subject to the privacy policy on that site.
   Neither the State of Washington, nor any agency, officer, or employee
   of the State of Washington warrants the accuracy, reliability or
   timeliness of any information published by this system, nor endorses
   any content, viewpoints, products, or services linked from this system,
   and shall not be held liable for any losses caused by reliance on the
   accuracy, reliability of timeliness of such information. Portions of
   such information may be incorrect or not current. Any person or entity
   that relies on any information obtained from this system does so at his
   or her own risk. 7. CRAB's Contact Information You may contact the
   County Road Administration Board to offer comments about this web site
   or about the information presented in this Internet Privacy Notice:
   Privacy policy and all other communications can be addressed to:
   Executive Director County Road Administration Board 2404 Chandler Court
   SW, Ste 240 Olympia, WA 98504-0913 Fax: (360) 586-0386 Phone: (360)
   753-5989 contact@crab.wa.gov
