http://counter.chp.ca.gov/html/truckstoppingdevice.html


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree




                        California Highway Patrol
                        Commissioner's Welcome
                        Q & A
                        Publications
                        What We Do
                        Offices
                        News and Public Notices
                        History
                        Careers
                        Traffic Incidents
                        Related Sites
                        Site Map

                          * Office of Public Affairs

                          * Regulatory Actions



   CHP motto - 'Safety and Service'



   __________ search
      (*)  My CA


   Truck Stopping Device


   Photo of Truck Stopping Device in action
    Download the video of the TSD in action

                                       RealVideo for high-speed connection
                                                             (370 KB file)

                                            Smaller RealVideo (56 KB file)

    The above video clips are in RealVideo format (version 8 or higher). A
         free web browser "plug-in" is required to view them, which can be
                   downloaded at http://www.real.com/player/8/index.html.)

                                                       MPEG-1 (1.3MB file)

      "Wattenburg Truck Stopping Device"

      The CHP, in cooperation with Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory and
      other members of the Governor's Task Force on Safe Delivery of Fuels,
      is testing the TSD. The TSD is a simple air-hose cutting device that
      can be mounted on the back of a tank trailer. It is connected to the
      air lines of a truck or trailer in such a way that any attempt to clamp
      or block the air line to the TSD will cause the spring brakes to lock
      the wheels at all times. A stolen tanker truck can be stopped simply by
      law enforcement activating the TSD with the patrol car's push bumper.

      How It Works

      A truck, tractor, or tractor-trailer vehicle combination in motion may
      be stopped safely with the application of firm pressure applied to a
      spring-loaded, metal push plate that is attached to the rear bumper of
      the pursued vehicle. The system may be operated remotely, also, by the
      transmission of a radio signal.

      In practice, a pursuing police vehicle approaches the target truck from
      the rear, then taps the trucks stopping device plate with its front
      bumper. The force of the pursuit vehicles impact triggers a mechanism
      on board the truck that releases the trucks internal air brake
      pressure. The trucks mechanical emergency brakes - that work
      independently of the air brake system - activate automatically, causing
      the truck to stop. The truck driver cannot override the mechanical
      brakes and cannot drive farther.

      Most large commercial trucks are equipped with air brakes that are
      activated by a compressor driven by the trucks engine. Air brake
      pressure is acquired after the engine is started. A certain, minimum
      amount of pressure, usually around 60 psi, is necessary for the air
      brakes to operate. If air brake pressure is released for any reason and
      drops below the minimum required pressure, the mechanical brakes are
      activated and cause the truck to stop. The mechanical braking system is
      used also as a parking brake that can be inactivated only when air
      brake pressure is sufficient.

      The air brake system on most commercial trucks is installed under the
      vehicle frame, where it is protected from superficial collision damage.
      However, air line connectors, called glad hands, are usually attached
      to and extend from the rear bumper of each tractor and trailer. The
      glad hands enable drivers to connect trailer air brakes in-line with
      their tractors.

      The truck stopping device is an extension of the air line connectors
      and deliver pressurized air through a shunt line attached to a pressure
      plate. When sufficient force is applied to the plate, the trucks air
      brake pressure is exhausted, causing the emergency mechanical braking
      system to operate.

      A valve that opens the shunt line by remote radio control is currently
      being evaluated, as is a system that would require the push plate to
      tapped twice by the pursuing police vehicle. The latter may reduce the
      possibility that a minor, rear end collision between a passenger
      vehicle and a truck could activate the braking system.

      The device is designed so that truck drivers can repair or reset the
      equipment to normal operating position in the field in the event it is
      activated accidentally. However, the system cannot be reset from within
      a trucks cab. The operator would be required to leave the cab and walk
      to the rear of the truck to effect repairs.

      The device is vandal-proof. An anti-disabling feature is incorporated
      into the system that activates the trucks mechanical emergency brakes
      if an effort is made to disable or bypass the device.

      Versions of the truck stopping device now being tested cost
      approximately $200, including installation.

      For more information on the TSD, contact CHP's Enforcement Services
      Division at (916) 445-3253.

                             Back to Top of Page
   © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor.   Conditions of Use |
                               Privacy Policy
