http://wwwdutslc.wr.usgs.gov/faq/faq.html

   Link to USGS Homepage
   Frequently Asked Questions
     __________________________________________________________________

    1. What does a hydrologist do?
    2. What kind of career opportunities exist for hydrologists, and what
       kind of education is required?
    3. If you are the U.S. Geological Survey, why do you study water and
       not rocks?
    4. How often are USGS topographic maps updated?
    5. Is there water under the ground?
    6. How can you find out how deep the water table is in a specific
       location?
    7. How much natural water is there?
    8. Is there water in the air and do we lose water from the earth to
       outer space?
    9. How is water cleaned?
   10. How is water recycled?
   11. What is the difference between water and ice?
   12. What would happen if the temperature in the world rose enough to
       melt all the snow and ice at the North and South Poles?
   13. How are data collected at USGS gaging stations tranferred
       automatically to the USGS website?
   14. What is “El Nino” and what are its effects?
   15. How are floods predicted?
   16. How is the salinity of Great Salt Lake measured?
   17. How is the amount of ground water and precipitation that enters
       Great Salt Lake determined?
   18. How are the surface area and volume of Great Salt Lake determined?

   What does a hydrologist do?

   Hydrologists study all aspects of water and its relation to geography,
   geology, biology, and chemistry. Of greatest interest currently is how
   to keep our streams, lakes, reservoirs, and subsurface water supplies
   from being polluted, and how to clean up the water that has already
   been contaminated with a variety of inorganic and organic chemicals. As
   scientists, hydrologists are always interested in how water moves
   through the hydrologic cycle and where in the cycle water is most
   vulnerable to degradation. Hydrologists use many tools to do their
   work, from shovels to mass spectrometers, and new tools are being
   developed every day. Computers undoubtedly are the most used tool. An
   description of hydrology and what hydrologists do can be found at
   http://wwwdutslc.wr.usgs.gov/infores/hydrology.primer.html .

   What kind of career opportunities exist for hydrologists, and what kind
   of education is required?

   Many agencies (Federal, State, local, and private consulting firms)
   employ hydrologists, who do a wide variety of work. At the Federal
   level the U.S. Geological Survey and U.S. Environmental Protection
   Agency probably employ the greatest number of hydrologists, but land
   management and regulatory agengies such as the Department of Energy,
   Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Bureau of Land Management, Bureau of
   Reclamation, U.S. Forest Service, National Weather Bureau, Natural
   Resources Conservation Service, National Park Service, and U.S. Fish
   &Wildlife Service also employ people who require knowledge of
   hydrologic processes. Most States also employ hydrologists in their
   Department of Natural Resources or Department of Environmental Quality,
   and more and more counties are employing hydrologists to keep track of
   water distribution and water use in their districts. The annual salary
   of hydrologists depends upon experience and acedemic training. Most
   “hydrologists” hired before about 1990 were actually engineers,
   geologists, biologists, chemists, or physicists. Today, many
   universities and colleges offer undergraduate and graduate degrees in
   hydrology or environmental science. These disciplines require extensive
   course work in math and science (geology, chemistry, physics, biology,
   calculus, etc.), but of equal importantance is the ability to
   communicate your scientific results both orally and in writing.

   If you are the U.S. Geological Survey, why do you study water and not
   rocks?

   When the U.S. Geological Survey was first established in 1879, the main
   purpose was to map and study the land and its resources; in other
   words, to geologically survey the United States. The role of the USGS
   has grown along with the changing needs of the country, and the USGS
   has diversified to include not only a Geologic Division and a National
   Mapping Division, but also a Water Resources Division and a Biologic
   Resources Division. Of course there is some overlap among the
   divisions, which is why we all work together and are collectively known
   as the U.S. Geological Survey. Perhaps a more appropriate name would be
   "U.S. Earth Survey," however, the traditional name has remained
   throughout all reorganizations because of the USGS reputation for
   providing unbiased earth-science information. The USGS motto more
   accurately states our mission: Science for a changing world.

   How often are USGS topographic maps updated?

   Most USGS map products are produced out of central offices through the
   National Mapping Division of the USGS; there is no individual mapping
   office for each State. The National Mapping Division can be contacted
   by selecting "Mapping" at the top of the Utah District home page. Here
   in the Water Resources Division, the maps we produce are specific to
   the hydrologic projects that we are working on. Just like you, we
   depend upon the National Mapping Division for their most updated maps,
   which we use as base maps for our hydrologic information.

   Is there water under the ground?

   Yes. The main body of subsurface water is found in the saturated zone
   of aquifers. Aquifers can be only a few feet below the surface or more
   than a thousand feet deep. Aquifers are the primary source of drinking
   water in arid and semi-arid parts of the United States where the amount
   of surface water (water in streams, lakes, and reservoirs) is limited.
   There is also subsurface water in soils (which is mostly used by
   plants), and in the zone found between the soil zone and the saturated
   zone of aquifers. This zone is called the unsaturated zone. The
   unsaturated zone includes a layer directly above the aquifer called the
   capillary fringe where water in the saturated zone is drawn upward by
   capillary action.

   How can you find out how deep the water table is in a specific
   location?

   The depth to the water table can change (rise or fall) depending on the
   time of year. During the late winter and spring when accumulated snow
   starts to melt and spring rainfall is plentiful, water on the surface
   of the earth infiltrates into the ground and the water table rises.
   When water-loving plants start to grow again in the spring and
   precipitation gives way to hot, dry summers, the water table will fall
   because of evapotranspiration. The most reliable method of obtaining
   the depth to the water table at any given time is to measure the water
   level in a shallow well with a tape. If no wells are available, surface
   geophysical methods can sometimes be used, depending on surface
   accessibility for placing electric or acoustic probes. Data bases
   containing depth-to-water measurements made in the past are maintained
   by the USGS. The Utah State Division of Water Rights maintains a data
   base of drillers' logs that have water-levels recorded when a well was
   drilled, and hydrologic consultants often have reports that contain
   water-level data from shallow boreholes. Consulting any or all of these
   sources is a good first step in finding out the depth to the water
   table.

   How much natural water is there?

   The earth is estimated to hold about 1,460,000,000 cubic kilometers of
   water. The breakdown of where all that water resides is estimated as
   follows:

Oceans (saline)                      1,419,120,000 cubic kilometers

Ice caps and glaciers (fresh)           31,244,000 cubic kilometers

Ground water (fresh and saline)          8,906,000 cubic kilometers

Streams and lakes (fresh)                  132,860 cubic kilometers

Lakes (saline)                             116,800 cubic kilometers

Other--soil, atmosphere, biosphere (fresh)  480,340 cubic kilometers

   Is there water in the air and do we lose water from the earth to outer
   space?

   Yes, there is water in the air. At any given time about 0.001 percent
   of the earth's water is in the atmosphere above the earth. Little or
   none is ever lost to outer space.

   How is water cleaned?

   There are many different kinds of treatments depending on what
   contaminant is in the water. Biological contamination is usually
   treated by heat (boiling) or by filtration. Inorganic contaminants
   dissolved in the water can be removed by distillation or chemical
   exchange. Organic contamination has been treated by biological and
   chemical remediation, and new treatment methods are being tried every
   day.

   How is water recycled?

   Water is recycled by using it over and over again. This sometimes
   requires removing contaminants that have been introduced by a
   particular use before putting the water back into the natural
   hydrologic cycle for eventual reuse. The type of reuse determines what
   clean-up treatment may be warranted.

   What is the difference between water and ice?

   Ice is cold, hard water, in solid form. Both water and ice consist of
   hydrogen and oxygen molecules. In general, pure water at sea level is
   in liquid form when its temperature is greater than 0 degrees Celsius
   (32 degrees Fahrenheit) and in solid form (ice) when its temperature
   drops below 0 degrees Celsius (32 degrees Fahrenheit). It turns to a
   gas, water vapor, when its temperature rises above 100 degrees Celsius
   (212 degrees Fahrenheit).

   What would happen if the temperature in the world rose enough to melt
   all the snow and ice at the North and South Poles?

   No one knows for sure what would happen if the snow and ice in the
   polar regions all melted. Sea level would rise, which would flood
   coastal regions. Climate would be affected worldwide. Isostatic rebound
   would occur where ice masses were removed from continents, causing the
   land surface there to rise. Many scientists are trying to predict the
   effects of climate changes such as a general warming trend by using
   computer climate models. Much more research needs to be done before we
   can confidently predict results.

   How are data collected at USGS gaging stations tranferred automatically
   to the USGS website?

   All the gaging stations that appear on the “Current Conditions” section
   of our website have satellite telemetry that basically works like
   this--An electronic data logger, using a 12-volt battery supply,
   monitors and records gage heights at selected intervals (usually 15
   minutes). The data are periodically transmitted to a satellite in
   geo-stationary orbit over the equator. The transmitter is called a GOES
   radio transmitter, and USGS stations typically transmit data every 4
   hours. The data are relayed via the satellite to a groundstation in
   Maryland, and then from Maryland via satellite to a USGS groundstation
   in Carson City, Nevada. From Nevada, the data are transmitted via
   landline to our computer system. USGS software decodes the data, which
   often (but not always) arrives in binary format, and puts it in a
   format that our hydrologic-data processing software (ADAPS) can
   recognize. The gage-height data are stored and manipulated to provide
   streamflow in cubic feet per second.USGS website software continuously
   accesses the various data files (site information, gage height, and
   discharge) and portrays the information graphically. Most of the
   data-logging systems use 12-volt power from a wet-cell battery with a
   solar panel recharging system. Data can also be transmitted via
   cellular and FM frequencies, but both require direct line of sight to a
   repeater.

   What is “El Nino” and what are its effects?

   El Nino is a natural phenomenon that recurs every few years during
   which the trade winds, which normally blow from east to west across the
   Pacific Ocean just north of the equator, lose their intensity. This
   allows the warm water that is typically around Indonesia to move east
   to the area just west of the coast of South America near Peru and
   Ecuador. The change in the typical Pacific Ocean water temperatures
   causes worldwide changes in normal weather patterns. In the United
   States, El Nino causes winter temperatures to be warmer than normal,
   and floods occur in California and in the southeastern states.
   Likewise, El Nino was responsible for the hot and dry summer of 1998 in
   Florida that caused the extensive wildfires. El Nino is so named
   because the effects of the warmer water off Peru is usually noticed
   near Christmas time. El Nino is Spanish for “Christ child.”

   How are floods predicted?

   Several types of data can be collected to assist hydrologists predict
   when and where floods might occur. The first and most important is
   monitoring the amount of rainfall occurring on a realtime (actual)
   basis. Second, monitoring the rate of change in river stage on a
   realtime basis can help indicate the severity and immediacy of the
   threat. Third, knowledge about the type of storm producing the
   moisture, such as duration, intensity, areal extent, etc., is valuable
   for determining possible severity of the flooding. And fourth,
   knowledge about the characteristics of a river's drainage basin, such
   as soil-moisture conditions, ground temperature, snowpack, topography,
   vegetation cover, impermeable land area, etc., can help to predict how
   extensive and damaging an impending flood might become.
   Floods are a dangerous hazard throughout the world. On average in the
   United States, about 165 people are killed and about $2 billion of
   damage occurs each year. Most people underestimate the power and
   destructiveness of flood waters.

   There are two basic kinds of floods, flash floods and the more
   widespread river flooding. Flash floods generally cause greater loss of
   life and river floods generally cause greater loss of property. A flash
   flood occurs when runoff from excessive rainfall causes a rapid rise in
   the stage of a stream or normally dry channel. Flash floods are more
   common in areas with a dry climate and rocky terrain because lack of
   soil or vegetation allows torrential rains (typically from summer
   thunderstorms) to flow overland rather than infiltrate into the ground.
   River flooding is generally more common for larger rivers in areas with
   a wetter climate, when excessive runoff from longer-lasting rainstorms
   (such as from a cold front) and sometimes from melting snow causes a
   slower water-level rise, but over a larger area. Floods also can be
   caused by ice jams on a river, or high tides. Most floods can be linked
   to a storm of some kind. The National Weather Service collects and
   interprets rainfall data throughout the United States and issues flood
   watches and warnings as appropriate. The National Weather Service uses
   statistical models and flood histories to try to predict the results of
   expected storms. The USGS maintains a network of streamflow-gaging
   stations throughout the country for which the discharge and stage are
   monitored. Flood estimation maps are generally produced by estimating a
   flood with a certain recurrence interval or probability and simulating
   the inundation levels based on flood plain and channel characteristics.
   More information on floods is available from the USGS Hydrologic
   Information Center at http://www.nws.noaa.gov/oh/hic and from the USGS
   national home page at http://water.usgs.gov . For more information on
   real-time flood monitoring, please see USGS Fact Sheet FS-209-95, which
   is available on-line at
   http://water.usgs.gov/public/wid/FS_209-95/mason-weiger.html.

   How is the salinity of Great Salt Lake measured?

   The salinity of Great Salt Lake is measured by taking specific gravity
   and temperature measurements and comparing them to standardized values
   reported in a table. Specific gravity is measured in the field by
   testing a water sample with a device very similar to a battery or
   antifreeze tester.

   How is the amount of ground water and precipitation that enters Great
   Salt Lake determined?

   The USGS measures the inflow to the lake from each of the major rivers
   (the Bear, Weber, and Jordan) to determine surface-water inflow. A
   comptuter model is used to determine average inflow from ground-water
   sources. This model also uses precipitation and evapotranspiration data
   from weather stations around the lake.

   How are the surface area and volume of Great Salt Lake determined?

   The water-level elevation of Great Salt Lake is measured at three
   gages. The north part of the lake is measured at Saline, and the south
   part at Promontory Point and Saltair Boat Harbor. From these
   elevations, capacity and area tables are used to estimate the surface
   area and the volume of water in the lake.


   Return to top of page.

   Return to USGS Utah home page.

   URL:http://ut.water.usgs.gov /faq/faq.html


    return to Utah home page
     __________________________________________________________________


    U.S. Department of the Interior
    U.S. Geological Survey
    2329 Orton Circle, West Valley City, Ut, 84119
    Maintainer: GS-W-UT_Web_Requests@usgs.gov
    Last Modified: 15:13:34 Fri 25 Jan 2002
    Privacy Statement || Disclaimer||Accessibility
