http://www-library.ncifcrf.gov/disclaim.htm

   [USEMAP:newt.gif]

                                                [disclaimer.gif]

                            line.jpg (1660 bytes)

   NOTICE: Information from this server resides on a computer system
   funded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Anyone
   using this system consents to monitoring by system or security
   personnel.

   DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY: With respect to documents available from this
   server, neither the United States Government nor the National Cancer
   Institute (NCI) nor any of their employees or contractors makes any
   warranty, express or implied, including the warranties of
   merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose, or assumes any
   legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or
   usefulness of any information, apparatus, product, or process
   disclosed, or represents that its use would not infringe on privately
   owned rights. Information found on or through this site is not intended
   to replace the professional advice of a physician or other health care
   professional. It is intended to assist NCI-Frederick employees and
   their families to make informed decisions regarding their health care
   choices. The U.S. Government, the NCI, and their employees and
   contractors cannot be held responsible for the contents of any off site
   pages referenced.

   DISCLAIMER OF ENDORSEMENT: Reference herein to any specific commercial
   product, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or
   otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement,
   recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government or the NCI
   or any of their employees/contracts. The views and opinions of authors
   expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect those of the
   United States Governmentor the NCI or their employees/contractors, and
   shall not be used for advertising or product endorsement purposes.

   COPYRIGHT STATUS: Documents on this server are sponsored by the NCI
   along with private companies and organizations. Accordingly, the
   appropriate parties may retain all rights to publish or reproduce these
   documents, or allow others to do so. All documents available from this
   server may be protected under the U.S. and Foreign Copyright Laws.
   Permission to reproduce may be required.

                            line.jpg (1660 bytes)

                                  [top.gif]

         NCI-FCRDC. Questions or comments: library@mail.ncifcrf.gov
                                Last updated:
