http://www.usajobs.opm.gov/a.htm


   USAJobs Logo and link to home page
   Skip over navigation bar to content Link to the USAJobs Job Openings
   Email notification of Job Listings Link to Resume Builder Link to the
   Online Application Link to USAJobs Site Survey Link to USAJobs General
   Information Link to Contacting Us Link to the Privacy Act space holder
   The OPM Seal and link to OPM home page

   Job Openings
   Select the types of jobs you would like to see


                                Professional
         A wide variety of positions requiring advanced education and/or
             specialized work experience. Information Technology
        IT positions are primarily jobs dealing with computer technology
                           and telecommunications.
                          Entry Level Professional
         Entry level positions start around $22,000 - $39,000 per year.
    Individuals qualify for these positions based on education or similar
                   work performed as a technician. Series
          Federal occupations are grouped into series that are given a
   numerical code for identification. This search allows you to search by
                                 that code.
                          Clerical and Technicians
          Clerical positions include work in support of organizational
                             operations. Agency
         Use this search if you are interested in working for a specific
                                   agency.
                               Worker-Trainee
          Positions require simple tasks and provide an opportunity for
   individuals to learn good work habits and work skills. Trades and Labor
        Trades and labor positions (commonly referred to as blue collar)
    include trades, crafts, and manual labor (unskilled, semi-skilled, or
                                  skilled).
                               State Job List
        Your search can be refined by selecting a state, geographic area,
    or part of the world. You can search through the alphabetical list of
                             job titles. Student
       This search contains jobs that are mostly targeted toward students,
             such as internships, co-ops, and volunteer service.
                              Senior Executive
        Incumbents administer public programs at the top executive levels
      of the Federal Government. Positions are primarily managerial and
                             supervisory. Summer
       Summer job opportunities are available in Federal agencies from May
             to September and cover a wide variety of positions.
                                  Part-Time
         This search contains jobs identified as "Part-time." Part-time
             employment is considered 32 hours per week or less.


   Job Openings | USAJOBS By Email | Resume Builder | Online Application |
                      Site Survey | General Information
