http://www.ustreas.gov/foia/foiafaqs.htm

   FOIA FAQ's Freedom of Information Act Banner Image
   This page answers Frequently Asked Questions about FOIA. Further
   information can be found in the Guide to Accessing Treasury Records.
    1. What is it that will most likely delay processing of a request?

   Delays can be caused by: lack of verification of identity for records
   maintained about you; failure to provide a fee agreement; lack of
   signature (needed even on requests sent by fax); addressing a request
   to the wrong bureau; or an inadequate description of the records
   sought. See 31 CFR ยง1.5(b), "Format of a Request."

   2. What if I can't specify exactly where the records are located but I
   have some information?

   Include all the information you have about the records you want access
   to. If you wish access to records maintained about you, you should
   state why such records may exist in Treasury, and where, if known.
   However, you should be prepared for an interim letter or phone call if
   an office still has trouble determining the exact location of records.
   Before submitting your request, a phone call to the office or browsing
   our home page may provide the information you need.

   3. With respect to contract records, solicitation and winning bid
   records are sometimes available to the public. How do I know when a
   FOIA request is needed?

   Some procurement information (procurement forecasts, the winning bid,
   etc.) is available to the public, while specific contract records must
   be requested under the FOIA. Check first with the Procurement Services
   Division in the appropriate Treasury bureau.

   4. Will the FOIA allow me to see records on my neighbor/coworker who is
   being investigated by the Treasury?

   No. Exemption 7 (C) of the FOIA protects the personal privacy of
   individuals whose names may appear in law enforcement files. If a
   Treasury office has issued a report after a particular investigation, a
   FOIA requester may obtain a copy of the report that has been determined
   releasable to all requesters. Exemption 6 protects the personal privacy
   of individuals whose names may appear in other files. With respect to
   IRS tax audits, an individual taxpayer's tax information is always
   confidential, and such records are not releasable to anyone other than
   the taxpayer or his/her authorized representative.

   5. Why should a request sent by fax also contain my signature?

   Treasury's regulations implementing the FOIA require a signature in
   writing on a FOIA request for Department records, whether sent by mail
   or by fax. The signature serves to validate the stated fee agreement
   and, when Privacy Act records are requested, allows comparison of
   signatures with personal identification documents.

   6. Why should I send my request to the specific Treasury bureau and not
   one office at Departmental Offices (DO)?

   The Treasury Department conducts its operations on a "decentralized"
   basis. This means there is no central location containing an index of
   records on every subject for which the Treasury Department has records.
   DO is similar to a "Headquarters" while the bureaus are involved in
   regulatory and other operations. DO and the other bureaus all have
   FOIA/Privacy Act functions within their organizations. Each bureau is
   most familiar with their own records and where they would be located.
   Sending a request to the proper bureau saves time.

   7. Why should requests for tax records go to the IRS when the Secretary
   of the Treasury is authorized by law to make tax assessments?

   The Internal Revenue Code (Title 26) at ยง7701(a)(11) explains the use
   of the terms "Secretary of the Treasury" and "Secretary", which are
   used throughout the Code. The latter term is defined as meaning the
   Secretary of the Treasury "or his delegate." The Secretary of the
   Treasury, by special delegation authority, has ordered that the
   Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service shall be responsible for
   all matters relating to the administration and enforcement of the
   internal revenue laws. Therefore, all tax records are under the custody
   of the IRS.

   Return to
   Treasury's FOIA Home Page
