http://www.ccities.doe.gov/what_is.shtml

                  [ISMAP:what_is.jpg]-What is Clean Cities

   What Is Clean Cities?

      The Clean Cities Program, sponsored by the U.S. Department of Energy,
      supports public-private partnerships that deploy alternative fuel
      vehicles (AFVs) and build supporting infrastructure. By encouraging AFV
      use, the Clean Cities Program helps enhance energy security and
      environmental quality at both the national and local levels.

      Unlike traditional command-and-control programs, the Clean Cities
      Program takes a unique, voluntary approach to AFV development, working
      with coalitions of local stakeholders to help develop the AFV industry
      and integrate this development into larger planning processes. The
      Clean Cities Strategic Plan, Charting the Course for AFV Market
      Development and Sustainable Clean Cities Coalitions (PDF 124KB), guides
      the way to achieving success.

      A Market-Based Solution that Works
      Becoming Part of the Clean Cities Program
      Alternative Fuels: The Spark for the Clean Cities Engine

      Clean Cities paves the way to:
        * New Markets
        * Partnerships
        * Support
        * Resources

   A Market-Based Solution that Works

      The Clean Cities Program thrives on strong local initiatives and a
      flexible approach to the challenge of building alternative fuels
      markets, providing participants with options to address problems unique
      to their cities, and fostering partnerships to help overcome these
      problems.

      Clean Cities works directly with local businesses and governments,
      guiding them through each step in the process of building the
      foundation for a vibrant local organization, including goal-setting,
      coalition-building, and securing commitments. Current and potential
      members of the Clean Cities network also help each other by sharing
      local innovations, addressing and relaying obstacles they encounter in
      pursuing alternative fuels programs, and exchanging "do's" and
      "don'ts," based on experiences in these programs. Clean Cities
      continually pioneers innovations and aspires to make strides nationally
      as well as locally.

      Clean Cities is dedicated to:
        * Creating new jobs and commercial opportunities
        * Facilitating alternative fuel vehicle production and conversion
        * Expanding local refueling infrastructure
        * Increasing the use of alternative fuels
        * Developing "clean corridors"
        * Increasing public awareness
        * Advancing clean air objectives
        * Supporting regulated fleets

   Becoming Part of the Clean Cities Program

      More than 4,400 stakeholders혰from small local businesses and municipal
      governments to regional air quality organizations and national
      alternative fuel companies혰have found the Clean Cities Program to be an
      effective route to building a local alternative fuels market, improving
      air quality, stimulating the local economy, and increasing public
      awareness of alternative fuels. Participants join Clean Cities because
      they're motivated by the spirit of voluntary partnerships, not
      government mandates.

      The following required steps will lead you to a Clean Cities
      designation:
        * Build a coalition of interested stakeholders
        * Assess local or regional alternative fuels market혰identify existing
          and potential AFV fleets and refueling stations
        * Work to ensure a strong market foundation혰build stakeholder
          commitments
        * Create a program plan and submit it to DOE for review
        * Celebrate designation

      This Web site provides detailed information on the steps to becoming a
      Clean City in the roadmap to getting started section. In addition, we
      have helpful hints to getting started and Clean Cities criteria.

      For more information contact the Clean Cities Hotline at 1-800-CCITIES
      (1-800-224-8437), or write:

        U.S. Department of Energy
        Clean Cities Program, EE-34
        1000 Independence Ave. S.W.
        Washington, DC 20585-0121

   Alternative Fuels: The Spark for the Clean Cities Engine

      The Clean Cities Program is built on the premise that we can change our
      communities for the better through cooperation and voluntary
      partnerships, working to reduce our reliance on imported oil and
      improve air quality. No population relies more on the automobile and
      imported fuels than people in the United States. The transportation
      sector has an enormous impact on our economy, national energy security,
      and environment. Moreover, emissions from vehicles are the single
      largest contributor to air pollution in many cities, making our air
      unhealthy to breathe and increasing health care costs. Clean Cities is
      proof we can work together to effect change by expanding the use of
      domestic alternative fuels.

   DOE's Clean Cities Provides Access To:

      New Markets

      Alternative fuels and AFVs can benefit both the local and national
      economy by creating new jobs and commercial opportunities. Activities
      such as infrastructure and new technology development, AFV conversions,
      and greater use of domestically produced fuels and feedstocks all
      generate business growth and new profit opportunities. In addition,
      Clean Cities spurs new demand for AFV products, as program stakeholders
      pledge to make AFV acquisitions through the year 2005. Clean Cities is
      working to transform these pledges into actual vehicles on the road,
      while challenging manufacturers to develop product lines that meet the
      various needs of the market.

      Partnerships

      Clean Cities unites public and private sector entities whose common
      goal is to build the alternative fuels market. Such cooperation has
      allowed communities to choose the alternative fuels that best serve
      their needs, based on fuel availability, fuel performance, emissions
      reductions, and economic factors. The partnerships fostered through
      Clean Cities also have led to the expansion of the refueling
      infrastructure. Fuel suppliers are continually committing to provide
      facilities, fuels, and services, which are crucial to further growth of
      the AFV market.

      Support

      Clean Cities provides the platform from which stakeholders can address
      larger goals. DOE helps organize and manage the program, but local
      Clean Cities coalitions provide the momentum necessary to sustain
      productive programs. For example, program members are encouraged to
      pursue the "clean corridor" concept in which Clean Cities establish
      links to create regional alternative fuels infrastructures. Clean
      Cities also serves as a vehicle for DOE to provide local assistance to
      federal, state, and local fuel supplier fleets required by law to make
      AFV acquisitions or conversions.

      Resources

      Wondering how to initiate a Clean Cities Program in your city? Want to
      breathe new life into your Clean Cities coalition? The knowledgeable
      staff at DOE's Clean Cities Hotline (1-800-CCITIES) can answer your
      questions about the program. DOE also has appointed Clean Cities
      program managers at each of its regional offices to help with local
      alternative fuels market development efforts. And Clean Cities offers a
      wealth of printed material to help build and sustain effective
      coalitions, including:
        * Charting the Course for AFV Market Development and Sustainable
          Clean Cities Coalitions (PDF 124KB)
          Strategic plan for Clean Cities Program
        * Clean Cities Program Mission and Vehicle Support Guidelines for
          2000-2001
          Outline of Clean Cities objectives to facilitate growth in the AFV
          marketplace
        * Clean Cities Guide to Alternative Fuel Vehicle Incentives and Laws
          Funding resource guide with up-to-date information about how and
          where stakeholders can find funding for AFV-related programs;
          government, industry, and coalition contacts; and much more
        * The Clean Cities Roadmap
          Step-by-step instructions on how to receive designation as part of
          the Clean Cities Program, including outlines for developing a
          program plan and drafting a memorandum of understanding for
          participants
        * Alternative Fuel News
          The program's latest newsletter, providing Alternative Fuels Data
          Center and Clean Cities Program news and developments
        * The Clean Cities Facts (PDF 387KB)
          Program brochure with map that displays the latest participants in
          the Clean Cities Program
        * Clean Cities Helpful Hints
        * Clean Cities Criteria
          Key steps for putting together a Clean Cities proposal

      Additional information on alternative fuels and vehicles, refueling
      infrastructure, legislation, and other DOE programs can be obtained
      through DOE's National Alternative Fuels Hotline at 800-423-1DOE
      (1363), or at the Alternative Fuels Data Center Web site.

              [Clean Cities Home] [DOE] [OTT] [Webmaster] [Feedback]
