http://cseat.nist.gov/CSEAT_Brochure_20010914.pdf

   "NIST CSEAT Team has just finished their review of our Information
   Security program and given us the draft report. They have done a great
   job for us. The report is a first-rate product and gives us a very
   practical guide on how best to apply our limited resources to fix our
   shortfalls." "Of all the reviews and audits we have done on us or
   against us, this is the most useful." From communication between agency
   CIO and OMB "Each review will produce high-level findings, a "sanity
   check" of how well personnel understand policies, and report with
   prioritized recommenda- tions." Government Computer News Daily Update,
   August 1, 2001 A federal agency can request a review by emailing the
   CSEAT: cseat@nist.gov http://cseat.nist.gov/ or contact the Director of
   the Computer Security Expert Assist Team, Kathy Lyons-Burke at
   301-975-4611 Background 3 To improve federal agency CIP planning
   includes the agency's IT security policies, procedures, Information
   Resources), and OMB M-01-24 Reporting and implementation efforts. and
   security controls implementation and integration Instructions for the
   Government Information Security The Computer Security Expert Assist
   Team (CSEAT) across all business areas. The CSEAT review provides a
   Reform Act. The critical areas are supplemented by was established at
   the National Institute of The CSEAT also helps Federal agencies
   understand consistent and comparable approach to IT secu- additional
   evaluation criteria derived from a combina- Standards and Technology
   (NIST) to improve fed- how to protect information systems, identify
   rity through consistent application of secu- tion of best commercial
   and governmental practices, eral Critical Infrastructure Protection
   (CIP) planning and and fix existing vulnerabilities, and pre- rity
   control objectives and IT security industry standards, and other
   regulatory requirements. implementation efforts by assisting
   governmental enti- pare for future security threats. The effectiveness
   criteria. CSEAT performs a ties in improving the security of their
   information and CSEAT also facilitates exchange of best comparable
   review of the agency's CSEAT review reports provide recommendations
   relative cyber assets. The CSEAT accomplishes this by performing
   security practices among government organizational structure, culture,
   and to the agency's: a review of an agency's computer security program.
   The agencies and between the government business mission. After the
   assessment Cyber security culture including policies and review is
   based upon a combination of proven tech- and private sector. is
   performed, the CSEAT documents issues procedures, and roles and
   responsibilities, niques and best practices and results in an action
   plan identified during the assessment phase and System security plans
   and risk that provides a federal agency with a business case The
   initial CSEAT approach is comprised of the provides corrective actions
   associated with assessment/analysis, based roadmap to cost-effectively
   enhance the protec- following two types of reviews: each issue. These
   corrective actions are then provided IT security personnel, user, and
   management tion of their information system assets. as a prioritized
   action plan for the agency to use to Reviewing agency automated
   information security training and awareness programs, improve their
   computer security program. programs (computer security for the
   organization) Each agency must implement and maintain an active Budget
   and resources dedicated to as requested by a Federal agency, and
   information technology security program that adequately The CSEAT does
   not establish new security IT security, secures agency information
   assets. An agency's IT secu- requirements. The CSEAT security con-
   Reviewing existing and planned high-risk IT sys- IT life cycle
   methodology and rity program must: 1) assure that systems and applica-
   trol objectives are abstracted directly tems as requested by OMB and a
   Federal agency. incorporation of IT security, tions operate effectively
   and provide appropriate from long-standing requirements found Incident
   and emergency response, confidentiality, integrity, and availability;
   Both of these types of reviews are instrumental in federal government
   regulations, Operations including authorized and 2) protect information
   commensurate in identifying agencies computer security statutes,
   policies, and guidance on processing, with the level of risk and
   magnitude of needs. Once these needs are identified, security. Physical
   security, and harm resulting from the information's the CSEAT can
   develop best practices IT security access controls. loss, misuse,
   unauthorized access, or and guidelines relevant to existing fed- CSEAT
   Review Report and Action modification. eral computer security needs.
   Plan The resulting action plan is weighted to provide the agency the
   greatest improvements most cost effec- Purpose CSEAT Security Program
   The CSEAT review report is organized into nine subsec- tively. The
   corrective actions CSEAT identifies include Review Approach tions, each
   of which were derived from a combination the time frame for
   implementation and the projected The CSEAT has three primary purposes:
   of NIST 800-26 Self-Assessment Guide for Information resource impact.
   The action plan can readily be 1 To assist agencies in improving the
   CSEAT provides an independent review of an agency's Technology Systems
   as enhanced by other criteria from used to develop scopes of work for
   quick "bootstrap- security of federal IT systems, IT security program.
   The CSEAT review, which is not an requirements and guidance such as
   NIST 800-18 Guide ping" of the cyber security program. 2 To help reduce
   disruption of critical federal audit or an inspection, begins with an
   assessment of the for Developing Security Plans for Information
   Technology systems/services, and maturity of the agency's IT security
   program. This Systems, OMB Circular A-130 (Management of Federal
