http://www.wstf.nasa.gov/TextExt/default.htm

   Site Index/Search
   About WSTF
   divider bar for navigation menu between departments section and
   miscellaneous section
   Environmental
   Rocket Propulsion
   Materials
   Hazards Assessment
   Oxygen Systems
   Space Flight Hardware
   Launch & Landing
   Aerospace Services
   TDRSS
   divider bar for navigation menu
   Enabling Capabilities
   Doing Business
   with WSTF
   Educational Outreach
   Professional Associations
   Employment

   divider bar for navigation menu

   Johnson Space Center
   Home Page
   WSTF Internal Web



     White Sands Test Facilty

            Welcome to the NASA JSC White Sands Test Facility

   White Sands Test Facility (WSTF) is a preeminent resource for
   testing and evaluating potentially hazardous materials, space flight
   components, and rocket propulsion systems. These services are
   available to NASA, the Department of Defense, other federal
   agencies, universities, and commercial industry.

                            Rocket Propulsion
   The primary mission of WSTF is to support NASA's Space Shuttle and
   Space Station Programs. We support these and other Government and
   commercial efforts. As the official Johnson Space Center (JSC)
   Propulsion Systems Development Facility, our rocket propulsion
   program is a leader in propulsion systems testing, with unique test
   expertise in hypergolic propellant handling and training, and is the
   Shuttle Fleet Leader for testing orbital maneuvering and reaction
   control subsystems.

   Chemical and Physical Properties of Materials
   Our engineers, chemists, and scientists in WSTF state-of-the-art
   laboratories conduct testing of hazardous materials and propellants,
   air quality, aerospace hardware and ground support equipment, and
   all materials used in space flight. We routinely perform Standard
   Testing for ASTM and NASA, as well as ignition and flammability
   testing. We continually seek to better understand and improve
   materials, components, and systems, and to ensure safety during
   manned space flights.


   Hazards Assessment
   Hazards assessment is a large part of what we do for NASA, the
   Department of Defense, aerospace, and other areas of industry. Our
   laboratory facilities conduct hazardous fluid assessment,
   hypervelocity tests, and explosive hazard assessment. The High
   Energy Blast Facility performs explosive testing with solid,
   cryogenic, hypergolic propellants, and other high explosives.


   Oxygen Systems
   Oxygen compatibility is a critical issue in space, aircraft,
   medical, and industrial applications. At WSTF, we investigate the
   effects of increased oxygen concentration on the ignition and
   burning of materials and components used in these applications.
   Hazards analyses are performed on materials, components, and
   systems; and failure analyses determine the cause of fires. Training
   courses about design and operation of safe oxygen systems are
   provided by WSTF personnel under the auspices of ASTM.

   Space Flight Hardware
   The Propulsion Component Test Facility at WSTF is an Orbiter and
   International Space Station Depot Repair Facility. We perform flight
   hardware assembly, repair, and acceptance testing for private aerospace
   manufacturers, as well. We refurbish hypergolic propellant components
   for the Space Shuttle, handle advanced pyrovalve testing at two of our
   laboratory facilities, and perform failure investigations.

   Launch and Landing Support
   White Sands Space Harbor (WSSH) is the primary training area for Space
   Shuttle pilots flying practice approaches and landings in the
   shuttle-training aircraft and T-38 aircraft. Our runways, navigational
   aids, runway lighting, and control facilities continuously stand ready
   as a backup Shuttle landing site.

     Other Areas of Interest
     * About WSTF provides a brief history and an overview of current
       services.
     * In addition to our standard business lines, we provide a variety of
       Aerospace Services.
     * A full range of Enabling Capabilities is available to all WSTF
       business lines.
     * WSTF is actively involved with several Education and Professional
       Associations.
     * WSTF offers exciting and interesting Employment opportunities.

                 What you should know about NASA Web Policy
       Responsible NASA Official: Barry Plante  Curator: Judy Corbett
                           Last Updated: 06/19/2001


   [FrontPage Include Component]
