http://www.hud.gov/offices/ogc/foia/index.cfm

   U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development: General Counsel
   [Display the text version of this page] [Translate this site]
                                                                 [Search/Index]



   general counsel
   about ogc
   headquarters managers
   field office managers
   legal opinions
   foia
   hud news
   homes
   communities
   working with hud
   resources
   tools
   webcasts
   mailing lists
   federal clearinghouses
   contact us
   help

   Home > About HUD > General Counsel > FOIA

   freedom of information act (foia)



    E-mail this to a friend
    Print version


   HUD is required under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) to provide
   the public with access to non-public and non-published documents.
   However, FOIA does exclude certain categories of records from
   disclosure pursuant to nine exemptions and three exclusions contained
   in the statute. (The statute and the regulations can be accessed from
   this site by clicking on the words "reference materials" listed
   below.)The 1996 Amendments to the FOIA made it easier for the public to
   access certain documents from government agencies. One of the most
   beneficial new developments for you as a FOIA requester is the
   electronic reading room. The reading room contains records such as
   policy statements, final opinions, certain administrative staff manuals
   and records disclosed in response to a FOIA request that "the agency
   determines have become or are likely to become the subject of
   subsequent requests for substantially the same records." This gives the
   public the opportunity to access documents much quicker and allows the
   agency to provide you with more efficient service when a document does
   require a written FOIA request. Browse the links below for more
   information on what is available on this website as well as on how to
   make a FOIA request.(NOTE: If you need a HUD form or publication,
   please contact HUD on Demand.)
   -   Making a FOIA request
   -   Reading room
   -   Reference materials
   -   Other FOIA websites

   Questions about FOIA? Call the FOIA Office at 202-708-3866 or send
   e-mail.


   Content updated October 18, 2001   Follow this link to  Back to top

   ----------
   Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
   Development
   451 7th Street S.W., Washington, DC 20410
   Telephone: (202) 708-1112   TTY: (202) 708-1455 Home
   | Privacy Statement
