http://wsom.nws.noaa.gov/manual/CHAPTERE/NE030003.HTML

   [director_header.gif]

                                                          February 29, 200

   W/OH2

   TO: All Holders of Operations Manual

   SUBJECT: Transmittal Memorandum for Operations Manual

   Issuance 00-03

   1. Material Transmitted:

   Entire WSOM Chapter E-03,"Geographic Areas of Responsibility."

   2. Summary:

   This chapter is being implemented as part of the reorganization of WSOM
   Part E. The following revisions have been made to account for the
   restructuring of the National Weather Service (NWS):

   a. Updated descriptions of River Forecast Center areas.

   b. Revised Hydrologic Service Area (HSA) descriptions corresponding to
   the new Weather Forecast Office (WFO) structure.

   c. Deleted descriptions of geographical areas for water supply forecast
   services.

   3. Effect on Other Instructions:

   Supersedes WSOM Chapter E-03, "Geographical Areas of Responsibility,"
   Issuance 90-2, dated March 13, 1990.

   John J. Kelly, Jr.

   WSOM-E-03-00-03

   [director_footer.gif]

   Issue Date Org. Code NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE

                        Operations Manual
                                                Part Chap
   2-29-00    W/OH2
   E          03

   GEOGRAPHIC AREAS OF RESPONSIBILITY

   Table of Contents: Page

   1. Purpose

   2. River Forecast Centers

   3. Weather Forecast Offices

   Appendices:

   A. River Forecast Center Areas of Responsibility

   B. Weather Forecast Office Hydrologic Service Areas

                                  * * * * *

   1. Purpose. This chapter describes the area of responsibility for each
   River Forecast Center (RFC) and the Hydrologic Service Area (HSA) for
   each Weather Forecast Office (WFO) in the National Weather Service
   (NWS).

   2. River Forecast Centers. RFC areas of responsibility are designated
   according to major river basins and/or climatological regions. The
   official title of each RFC conveys its geographic area of
   responsibility and shall be used when referring to RFCs in NWS
   documents and publications. RFC areas of responsibility are described
   in appendix A.

   3. Weather Forecast Offices. Each WFO provides site-specific hydrologic
   products and other hydrologic services for its HSA. HSAs are coincident
   with county warning and forecast areas (CWFA) as much as possible, but
   may deviate from the CWFA to accommodate natural hydrologic boundaries
   and partner/customer requirements where necessary. Site-specific
   hydrologic forecast and warning products are provided for the HSA while
   areal hydrologic products such as flash flood watches are provided for
   the CWFA. CWFAs are described in WSOM Chapter C-47, "County Warning
   Areas."

   A majority of WFOs have Service Hydrologists, but those lacking this
   position are designated to receive support from a Service Hydrologist
   at a nearby WFO. Assignment of these support responsibilities as well
   as detailed HSA definitions and maps are contained in Regional
   Operations Manual Letters (ROML). A general description of each HSA is
   contained in appendix B.

                River Forecast Center Areas of Responsibility

   Areas of responsibility for each River Forecast Center (RFC) are
   described below, listed in alphabetical order by RFC title, and shown
   in Exhibit A-1:

   Alaska-Pacific RFC (APRFC) is located in Anchorage, Alaska; and has
   responsibility for all rivers in the State of Alaska and for providing
   hydrologic support for the Pacific Region.

   Arkansas - Red Basin RFC (ABRFC) is located in Tulsa, Oklahoma; and has
   responsibility for the Arkansas River basin from its headwaters in
   Colorado and New Mexico downstream to and including Pine Bluff,
   Arkansas; and the Red River basin from its headwaters in New Mexico
   downstream to and including Fulton, Arkansas.

   California - Nevada RFC (CNRFC) is located in Sacramento, California;
   and has responsibility for all river basins in California (except for
   the Colorado River drainage in the south), the Klamath River in
   southern Oregon, the Quinn River in southeast Oregon, and all river
   basins in Nevada (except for tributaries to the Snake River in the
   north, tributaries to the Colorado River in the southeast, and
   tributaries to the Great Salt Lake and Sevier Lake in the far east
   portion).

   Middle Atlantic RFC (MARFC) is located in State College, Pennsylvania;
   and has responsibility for the Atlantic slope drainages from below the
   mouth of the Hudson River to and including the James River basin in
   Virginia.

   Colorado Basin RFC (CBRFC) is located in Salt Lake City, Utah; and has
   responsibility for the Colorado River Basin from the headwaters in
   Colorado and Wyoming downstream to the international boundary with
   Mexico, the river basins west of the Continental Divide in New Mexico
   and Arizona, the Great Salt Lake basin, and the Sevier Lake basin.

   Lower Mississippi RFC (LMRFC) is located in Slidell, Louisiana, and has
   responsibility for all drainage and tributaries of the Mississippi
   River Basin below Chester, Illinois; including the Big Muddy River
   below Murphysboro, Illinois; the Ohio River and all tributaries at and
   below Smithland Lock and Dam Tailwater, Illinois; the Cumberland River
   drainage below Barkley Dam in Kentucky; all tributaries of the
   Tennessee River Basin above Kentucky Dam in Kentucky excluding the
   Tennessee River mainstem; and all drainage below Kentucky Dam; the
   Arkansas River Basin and tributaries below Pine Bluff, Arkansas; the
   Red River Basin and tributaries below Fulton, Arkansas; and all Gulf of
   Mexico drainage between and including the Pascagoula River Basin in
   Mississippi west to the Calcasieu River Basin in Louisiana.

   Missouri Basin RFC (MBRFC) is located in Pleasant Hill, Missouri; and
   has responsibility for the U.S. portion of the Missouri River basin
   from its headwaters in Colorado, Wyoming, and Montana down to the
   confluence with the Mississippi River and the U.S. portion of the St.
   Mary River basin in Montana.

   North Central RFC (NCRFC) is located in Chanhassen, Minnesota; and has
   responsibility for the Mississippi River Basin from its headwaters
   downstream to and including Chester, Illinois (except for the Missouri
   Basin which is serviced by the Missouri Basin RFC); the Big Muddy River
   downstream to and including Murphysboro, Illinois; the Red River of the
   North Basin to the Canadian border; the Souris River basin in North
   Dakota; the Rosseau River Basin in Minnesota; the Rainy River Basin in
   Minnesota; the Calumet River Basin in Illinois/Indiana; and the Great
   Lakes tributaries in Michigan, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Illinois, and
   Indiana (except for the Maumee River Basin which is serviced by the
   Ohio RFC).

   Northeast RFC (NERFC) is located in Taunton, Massachusetts; and has
   responsibility for the Lake Erie and Lake Ontario drainages in the
   State of New York; the Hudson River basin above the Passaic River of
   New Jersey; the Lake Champlain drainages in New York and Vermont; the
   streams of Long Island, New York; and all other U.S. river basins to
   the northeast of these basins in the New England states.

   Northwest RFC (NWRFC) is located in Portland, Oregon; and has
   responsibility for the U.S. portion of the Columbia/Snake River basins;
   all of the coastal river basins of Oregon and Washington; and the Great
   Basin rivers of Oregon with the exception of the Quinn River (which is
   serviced by the CNRFC).

   Ohio RFC (OHRFC) is located in Wilmington, Ohio; and has responsibility
   for the Ohio River Basin from its headwaters downstream to and
   including inflow into Smithland Lock and Dam near Smithland, Kentucky;
   the Cumberland River and its tributaries above Barkley Dam; and the
   Lake Erie drainages from the Maumee River of Indiana/Ohio eastward
   through Pennsylvania.

   Southeast RFC (SERFC) is located in Peachtree City, Georgia; and has
   responsibility for rivers draining into the Atlantic Ocean from and
   including the Albemarle Sound (Nottoway River of Virginia/North
   Carolina) southward to the tip of Florida, and the rivers draining into
   the Gulf of Mexico from the southern tip of Florida north and west to
   and including the Mobile River (Tombigbee/Alabama River basins) of
   Alabama.

   West Gulf RFC (WGRFC) is located in Fort Worth, Texas; and has
   responsibility for rivers draining into the western Gulf of Mexico
   along the Texas coast, from and including the Rio Grande basin of
   Colorado, New Mexico, Texas, and Mexico north to the Sabine River basin
   of Texas and western Louisiana.

                                [rfc_3b.gif]

              Weather Forecast Office Hydrologic Service Areas

   Hydrologic Service Areas (HSA) for eachWeather Forecast Office (WFO)
   are outlined below, listed in alphabetical order by WFO name, with
   official site identifier in parenthesis. A national HSA map is shown in
   Exhibit B-1.

   Aberdeen, SD (ABR) has HSA responsibility for central, north central,
   and northeast South Dakota.

   Albany, NY (ALY) has HSA responsibility for portions of eastern New
   York, northwest Connecticut, western Massachusetts, and southern
   Vermont.

   Albuquerque, NM (ABQ) has HSA responsibility for the northern three
   quarters of New Mexico.

   Amarillo, TX (AMA) has HSA responsibility for the central and northern
   portions of the Texas panhandle along with the Oklahoma panhandle.

   Anchorage, AK (AFC) has HSA responsibility for the southern third of
   Alaska excluding the panhandle region; specifically, all drainages into
   the Pacific Ocean west of Cape Suckling and south of the Yukon Delta.

   Atlanta, GA (FFC) has HSA responsibility for most of central and
   northern Georgia.

   Austin/San Antonio, TX (EWX) has HSA responsibility for a portion of
   southern and central Texas.

   Baltimore, MD/Washington, DC (LWX) has HSA responsibility for most of
   Maryland (except for Garrett County and the eastern shore), northern
   Virginia, and the West Virginia panhandle.

   Billings, MT (BYZ) has HSA responsibility for the southeast quarter of
   Montana and Sheridan County, Wyoming.

   Binghamton, NY (BGM) has HSA responsibility for portions of south
   central New York and northeast Pennsylvania.

   Birmingham, AL (BMX) has HSA responsibility for the northern
   three-fourths of Alabama.

   Bismarck, ND (BIS) has HSA responsibility for the western two-thirds of
   North Dakota.

   Boise, ID (BOI) has HSA responsibility for southwest Idaho and
   southeast Oregon.

   Boston, MA (BOX) has HSA responsibility for most of Massachusetts
   (except for the far west portion), southwest New Hampshire, northeast
   Connecticut, and all of Rhode Island.

   Brownsville, TX (BRO) has HSA responsibility for the southern tip of
   Texas.

   Buffalo, NY (BUF) has HSA responsibility for western New York and the
   Lake Ontario portion of northern New York.

   Burlington, VT (BTV) has HSA responsibility for northern and central
   Vermont and northeast New York.

   Caribou, ME (CAR) has HSA responsibility for northern Maine.

   Central Illinois, IL (ILX) has HSA responsibility for central and east
   central Illinois.

   Central Pennsylvania, PA (CTP) has HSA responsibility for south
   central, central, and north central Pennsylvania.

   Charleston, SC (CHS) has HSA responsibility for southeast South
   Carolina and a portion of eastern Georgia.

   Charleston, WV (RLX) has HSA responsibility for central, western, and
   southern West Virginia; southeast Ohio; and a small portion of eastern
   Kentucky.

   Cheyenne, WY (CYS) has HSA responsibility for southeast Wyoming and
   western Nebraska.

   Chicago, IL (LOT) has HSA responsibility for northeast Illinois and
   northwest Indiana.

   Cincinnati, OH (ILN) has HSA responsibility for central, western, and
   southern Ohio, northern Kentucky, and southeast Indiana.

   Cleveland, OH (CLE) has HSA responsibility for northern Ohio and the
   tip of northwest Pennsylvania.

   Columbia, SC (CAE) has HSA responsibility for central South Carolina
   and a portion of eastern Georgia.

   Corpus Christi, TX (CRP) has HSA responsibility for a portion of
   southern Texas above the southern tip of the state handled by
   Brownsville, TX.

   Dallas/Fort Worth, TX (FWD) has HSA responsibility for east central and
   north central Texas.

   Denver/Boulder, CO (BOU) has HSA responsibility for most of the
   northeast quarter of Colorado.

   Des Moines, IA (DMX) has HSA responsibility for south central, central,
   and north central Iowa.

   Detroit, MI (DTX) has HSA responsibility for the southeast third of
   lower Michigan.

   Dodge City, KS (DDC) has HSA responsibility for west central and
   southwest Kansas.

   Duluth, MN (DLH) has HSA responsibility for northeast Minnesota and
   northwest Wisconsin.

   Eastern North Dakota, ND (FGF) has HSA responsibility for the eastern
   third of North Dakota and northwest Minnesota.

   El Paso, TX (EPZ) has HSA responsibility for the western tip of Texas
   and southwest New Mexico.

   Elko, NV (LKN) has HSA responsibility for northeast Nevada.

   Eureka, CA (EKA) has HSA responsibility for the coastal area of
   northwest California.

   Fairbanks, AK (AFG) has HSA responsibility for the northern two-thirds
   of Alaska; specifically, the Yukon River and all of its tributaries,
   all drainages into the Pacific Ocean north of the Yukon Delta, and all
   drainages into the Arctic Ocean.

   Flagstaff, AZ (FGZ) has HSA responsibility for north central and
   northeast Arizona.

   Glasgow, MT (GGW) has HSA responsibility for the northeast quarter of
   Montana.

   Goodland, KS (GLD) has HSA responsibility for northwest Kansas and
   small portions of southwest Nebraska and eastern Colorado.

   Grand Junction, CO (GJT) has HSA responsibility for the western portion
   of Colorado and three counties in eastern Utah.

   Grand Rapids, MI (GRR) has HSA responsibility for the southwest third
   of lower Michigan and small portions of northeast Indiana and northwest
   Ohio.

   Great Falls, MT (TFX) has HSA responsibility for a large portion of
   central Montana.

   Green Bay, WI (GRB) has HSA responsibility for central and northeast
   Wisconsin.

   Greenville/Spartanburg, SC (GSP) has HSA responsibility for northwest
   South Carolina, a small portion of northeast Georgia, and a portion of
   western North Carolina.

   Guam (GUA) has HSA responsibility for the Island of Guam and other
   Pacific territories.

   Hastings, NE (GID) has HSA responsibility for south central Nebraska
   and north central Kansas.

   Honolulu, HI (HFO) has HSA responsibility for all of the Hawaiian
   Islands.

   Houston/Galveston, TX (HGX) has HSA responsibility for a portion of
   southeast Texas.

   Indianapolis, IN (IND) has HSA responsibility for most of southern
   Indiana.

   Jackson, KY (JKL) has HSA responsibility for most of eastern Kentucky.

   Jackson, MS (JAN) has HSA responsibility for central Mississippi,
   northeast Louisiana, and the southeast corner of Arkansas.

   Jacksonville, FL (JAX) has HSA responsibility for northeast Florida and
   the southeast corner of Georgia.

   Juneau, AK (AJK) has HSA responsibility for the panhandle area of
   Alaska; specifically, all drainages into the Pacific Ocean south and
   east of Cape Suckling.

   Kansas City/Pleasant Hill, MO (EAX) has HSA responsibility for north
   central, northwest, and west central Missouri and a small portion of
   eastern Kansas.

   Key West, FL (EYW) has HSA responsibility for the Florida Keys and the
   southwest portion of the Everglades.

   Knoxville/Tri Cities, TN (MRX) has HSA responsibility for a section of
   eastern Tennessee, the panhandle region of Virginia, and two counties
   in the extreme northwestern portion of North Carolina.

   La Crosse, WI (ARX) has HSA responsibility for southwest Wisconsin,
   southeast Minnesota, and northeast Iowa.

   Lake Charles, LA (LCH) has HSA responsibility for southwest Louisiana
   and a small portion of southeast Texas.

   Las Vegas, NV (VEF) has HSA responsibility for southern Nevada,
   northwest Arizona, and a portion of eastern California.

   Little Rock, AR (LZK) has HSA responsibility for most of the State of
   Arkansas except for small western, southern, and eastern portions.

   Los Angeles, CA (LOX) has HSA responsibility for Los Angeles, Ventura,
   Santa Barbara, and San Luis Obispo Counties of southern California.

   Louisville, KY (LMK) has HSA responsibility for central Kentucky.

   Lubbock, TX (LUB) has HSA responsibility for a portion of northern
   Texas below the panhandle.

   Marquette, MI (MQT) has HSA responsibility for most of the upper
   peninsula of Michigan and a small part of northeast Wisconsin.

   Medford, OR (MFR) has HSA responsibility for southwest Oregon and a
   small, portion of northern California near the Oregon/California
   boundary.

   Melbourne, FL (MLB) has HSA responsibility for the east central portion
   of the Florida peninsula.

   Memphis, TN (MEG) has HSA responsibility for the western quarter of
   Tennessee, the northern third of Mississippi, and a portion of eastern
   Arkansas.

   Miami, FL (MFL) has HSA responsibility for the southern end of the
   Florida peninsula.

   Midland/Odessa, TX (MAF) has HSA responsibility for a large portion of
   western Texas and the southeast corner of New Mexico.

   Milwaukee, WI (MKX) has HSA responsibility for southern and southeast
   Wisconsin.

   Minneapolis, MN (MPX) has HSA responsibility for most of the southern
   half of Minnesota except for the southeast and southwest corners, and a
   portion of western Wisconsin.

   Missoula, MT (MSO) has HSA responsibility for western Montana and
   northeast Idaho.

   Mobile, AL (MOB) has HSA responsibility for southwest Alabama, the far
   west end of the Florida panhandle, and a portion of southeast
   Mississippi.

   Morehead City, NC (MHX) has HSA responsibility for the central portion
   of coastal North Carolina.

   Nashville, TN (OHX) has HSA responsibility for most of central
   Tennessee.

   New Orleans/Baton Rouge, LA (LIX) has HSA responsibility for southeast
   Louisiana and the southern tip of Mississippi.

   New York City, NY (OKX) has HSA responsibility for the southeast end of
   New York including Long Island, northeast New Jersey, and the southern
   half of Connecticut.

   North Central Lower Michigan, MI (APX) has HSA responsibility for the
   northern third of lower Michigan and the eastern end of the upper
   Michigan peninsula.

   Northern Indiana, IN (IWX) has HSA responsibility for most of northern
   Indiana and portions of northwest Ohio and southern Michigan.

   North Platte, NE (LBF) has HSA responsibility for most of central
   Nebraska.

   Oklahoma City, OK (OUN) has HSA responsibility for most of Oklahoma,
   except for the panhandle and the northeast portion of the state.

   Omaha, NE (OAX) has HSA responsibility for eastern Nebraska and
   southwest Iowa.

   Paducah, KY (PAH) has HSA responsibility for western Kentucky,
   southeast Missouri, southern Illinois, and southwest Indiana.

   Pendelton, OR (PDT) has HSA responsibility for northwest Oregon and a
   portion of southern Washington.

   Philadelphia, PA (PHI) has HSA responsibility for southeast
   Pennsylvania, all of New Jersey except for the northeast corner, all of
   Delaware, and five eastern shore counties in the Maryland portion of
   the Delmarva peninsula.

   Phoenix, AZ (PSR) has HSA responsibility for south central and
   southwest Arizona along with most of the desert area of southern
   California.

   Pittsburgh, PA (PBZ) has HSA responsibility for most of western
   Pennsylvania, part of eastern Ohio, northern West Virginia, and Garrett
   County, Maryland.

   Pocatello/Idaho Falls, ID (PIH) has HSA responsibility for most of
   southeast Idaho.

   Portland, ME (GYX) has HSA responsibility for southern Maine and all
   but the southeast corner of New Hampshire.

   Portland, OR (PQR) has HSA responsibility for northwest Oregon and
   southwest Washington.

   Pueblo, CO (PUB) has HSA responsibility for south central and southeast
   Colorado.

   Quad Cities, IA (DVN) has HSA responsibility for most of eastern Iowa
   (except for the northeast corner) and the adjacent portion of western
   Illinois.

   Raleigh/Durham, NC (RAH) has HSA responsibility for central North
   Carolina.

   Rapid City, SD (UNR) has HSA responsibility for western South Dakota.

   Reno, NV (REV) has HSA responsibility for northwest Nevada and the
   eastern most portion of the Sierra counties of eastern California.

   Riverton, WY (RIW) has HSA responsibility for western Wyoming except
   the far southwest corner.

   Roanoke, VA (RNK) has HSA responsibility for the western portion of
   Virginia except the far western tip of the panhandle, a small portion
   of southeast West Virginia, and a portion of northwest North Carolina.

   Sacramento, CA (STO) has HSA responsibility for north central
   California centered on the Sacramento Valley.

   Salt Lake City, UT (SLC) has HSA responsibility for Utah (except for
   four eastern counties), Uinta County in Wyoming, a small portion of
   southeast Idaho, and the portion of northwest Arizona north of the
   Colorado River.

   San Angelo, TX (SJT) has HSA responsibility for a portion of central
   Texas.

   San Diego, CA (SGX) has HSA responsibility for San Diego and Orange
   Counties, western Riverside County, and southwestern San Bernardino
   County in Southern California.

   San Francisco Bay Area, CA (MTR) has HSA responsibility for the central
   coastal area of California, including the San Francisco Bay area.

   San Joaquin Valley, CA (HNX) has HSA responsibility for a portion of
   central California centered on the San Joaquin Valley.

   San Juan, PR (SJU) has HSA responsibility for the island of Puerto
   Rico.

   Seattle/Tacoma, WA (SEW) has HSA responsibility for northwest
   Washington.

   Shreveport, LA (SHV) has HSA responsibility for northwest Louisiana,
   northeast Texas, the southeast corner of Oklahoma, and southwest
   Arkansas.

   Sioux Falls, SD (FSD) has HSA responsibility for southeast South
   Dakota, the southwest corner of Minnesota, and the northwest corner of
   Iowa.

   Spokane, WA (GTX) has HSA responsibility for central, north central,
   east central, and northeast Washington and northwest Idaho.

   Springfield, MO (SGF) has HSA responsibility for southwest and south
   central Missouri.

   St. Louis, MO (LSX) has HSA responsibility for east central and
   northeast Missouri and portions of western and southwestern Illinois.

   Tallahassee, FL (TAE) has HSA responsibility for central and eastern
   portion of the Florida panhandle, the southeast corner of Alabama, and
   southwest Georgia.

   Tampa Bay Area, FL (TBW) has HSA responsibility for the west central
   portion of the Florida peninsula.

   Topeka, KS (TOP) has HSA responsibility for northeast Kansas.

   Tucson, AZ (TWC) has HSA responsibility for southeast Arizona.

   Tulsa, OK (TSA) has HSA responsibility for northeast Oklahoma and the
   northwest corner of Arkansas.

   Wakefield, VA (AKQ) has HSA responsibility for southeast Virginia, four
   eastern shore counties in the Maryland portion of the Delmarva
   peninsula, and the north coastal portion of North Carolina.

   Wichita, KS (ICT) has HSA responsibility for southeast Kansas and a
   portion of central Kansas.

   Wilmington, NC (ILM) has HSA responsibility for the southern portion of
   coastal North Carolina and northeast South Carolina.

                                [wfo_2b.gif]
