http://www.tfhrc.gov/pubrds/julaug01/preventcollisions.htm

   Public Roads Skip Repetitive Links.

   [home.jpg]
   Editor's Notes
   Along the Road
   Internet Watch
   Recent Publications
   Conferences
   NHI Update
   Subscriptions
   Previous Isuues

   U.S. Dept. of Transportation - Federal Highway Administration.
                           Turner-Fairbank
                       Highway Research Center

                                 Contact Us@

     July/August 2001

     International Cooperation to Prevent Collisions at Intersections
     by Cathy Frye

     The United States and Japan have joined forces in the hope of
     finding technology-based solutions to reduce the high incidence of
     crashes at intersections. Teaming together for the new U.S.-Japan
     Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) Joint Research Program,
     both countries are exchanging information and discussing solutions
     being developed, evaluated, or implemented in their respective
     nations.

     The ITS Joint Research Program was initiated in November 2000 in
     Turin, Italy, during the 8th Workshop on ITS in the United States
     and Japan. The workshop was held in conjunction with the 7th World
     Congress on Intelligent Transport. The workshop participants laid
     the groundwork for the future cooperative study and agreed that
     their long-range research topic will be the evaluation of the
     effects of infrastructure support for intersection collision
     avoidance (ICA). In addition to exchanging progress reports
     throughout the year, Joint Research Program participants will hold
     an annual meeting to review findings.

     Each year, both countries will focus on one research subtopic for
     study. The topic for 2001 is systems concepts and requirements for
     infrastructure support for ICA.

     In the spirit of "two heads are better than one," both countries
     will take this opportunity to look at solutions that are aimed at
     reducing the number of crashes at intersections in the United States
     and Japan. Because the two countries frequently take different
     approaches to resolve the same problem - too many accidents
     occurring at intersections - the Joint Research Program is a
     learning experience for all involved.

     To further advance the Joint Research Program's information
     exchange, Japan is sending an engineer to the Turner-Fairbank
     Highway Research Center each year on a fellowship. Having a Japanese
     research fellow at the Federal Highway Administration's (FHWA's)
     center for research, development, and technology helps in the
     day-to-day informal exchanges of information. Both countries are
     excited about the potential advances in intersection collision
     avoidance that could come from this cooperation.

     At the Cross Roads or in the Cross Hairs?
     According to the International Road Traffic Accident Database, an
     estimated 10 million traffic crashes worldwide occur each year, and
     these crashes claim the lives of one-half million people. Sixty
     percent of the crashes occur in the United States, and of those, 27
     percent of the crashes in the United States occur at intersections.
     Intersection crashes are in a statistical dead heat with rear-end
     collisions, which account for 28 percent of all crashes on U.S.
     roads, as the second most common type of crash occurring on our
     roads. This makes intersections "among the most dangerous locations
     on U.S. roads," according to FHWA's ITS Joint Program Office.

     In Japan, intersection collision statistics are even more
     staggering; more than 58 percent of all traffic crashes occur at
     intersections. Thirty percent of all Japanese traffic accidents
     involving fatalities occur at intersections, and the majority of
     these fatal crashes happen at intersections without traffic signals.

     Intersections Present Unique Problems
     The crash statistics from both the United States and Japan clearly
     show the dangerous nature of intersections. Intersections are far
     more complicated than other roadways, such as a divided highway
     where all of the traffic on each side of a median is flowing in one
     direction. Since an intersection is a decision point for vehicles
     from multiple directions, many variables are at play. Vehicles may
     need to stop, start, yield right of way, slow, accelerate, or turn.
     Drivers may purposefully ignore traffic signals - as is often the
     case with red-light running - or simply misunderstand them.

     Intersections present the ideal environment for crossing-path
     crashes in which both vehicles are initially traveling from either
     perpendicular or opposite directions and then one vehicle cuts
     across the path of the other. There are four types of crossing-path
     crashes:
     * Straight crossing paths (SCP).
     * Right/left turn into path (R/LTP).
     * Left turn across path - lateral direction conflict (LTAP/LD).
     * Left turn across path - opposite direction (LTAP/OD).

     In addition to vehicular crashes, pedestrian accidents in
     intersections are also a problem. In the United States, 70,000
     vehicle-pedestrian collisions occur annually, and 40 percent occur
     in intersections. More than 45 percent of all pedestrians hit by
     vehicles in Japan are struck in an intersection, and an astonishing
     52 percent of these incidents occur while the pedestrian is in the
     crosswalk.

     The Weak Link
     Surprisingly, the cause of most crashes is not adverse road
     conditions, driving under the influence, or even vehicle defects. In
     the human-machine collaboration that occurs during driving, the weak
     link is often the human. Driver error is the cause of 90 percent of
     all police-reported car crashes in the United States.

     Preliminary study data from the ITS Joint Program Office indicate
     that with the full deployment of just three Intelligent Vehicle
     Initiative (IVI) systems, one in every six U.S. crashes would not
     occur. IVI systems are being designed to enhance human performance
     and guard against human shortfalls such as limited sight distance
     and reaction times that are not fast enough to keep a crash from
     happening.

     Emerging Intelligent Vehicle Systems
     U.S. research is looking at collision countermeasures. Initially,
     these could be infrastructure-only systems that rely solely on
     roadside warning devices to signal drivers. Ultimately, the emerging
     systems could evolve into cooperative systems that communicate
     information from the infrastructure directly to vehicles and
     drivers.

                       Illustrations of Intersections.


        Figure 2- Illustrations of the types of crossing-path crashes.

     For example, a countermeasure aimed at reducing red-light running
     could use sensors to identify potential traffic-signal violators by
     determining the speed and the deceleration rate of each vehicle at a
     fixed location before the traffic signal. Once a potential violator
     is detected, a roadside warning device could display a warning with
     flashing lights to "stop ahead." This infrastructure-only system
     might make use of magnetic loop detectors, self-powered vehicle
     detectors (SPVDs), optical sensors, or radar sensors in addition to
     a variable message sign - all currently available off-the-shelf
     products.

     With a future cooperative system, instead of relaying a warning to
     the driver through the use of a variable message sign, a warning
     could be communicated directly to the potential red-light runner
     inside the vehicle via a message console, an audible warning, or
     other sensory warning. With refinement, cooperative systems could
     detect the vehicle, determine that it is approaching the
     intersection too fast to stop, and assume control so that it is
     stopped before potentially causing an accident at the intersection.

     Although the potential to develop cooperative road-vehicle systems
     exists, this capability is a controversial development in the
     evolution of human travel. It brings with it potential liability
     issues in the event of a system failure, and it requires a general
     change in thinking that the human driver should always be solely in
     control of the vehicle.

                              What is the IVI?


         Figure 3 - Goal of the U.S. Intelligent Vehicle Initiative.

     Other potential systems that may be coming off the American drawing
     board include "smart stop signs." These smart stop signs, like the
     already described red-light-running countermeasure, could use
     conventional magnetic loop detection, optical sensors, or radar
     sensors to reduce the number of crashes that occur near U.S. stop
     signs each year - currently, about 79,000 crashes per year. Not only
     would the potential violator be notified before missing the stop
     sign, but warnings could be conveyed to drivers on adjacent
     approaches to the same intersection. In this way, even drivers with
     the right of way would be alerted to avoid a crash.

     But the danger of a collision at an intersection controlled by stop
     signs is not just a result of a driver who fails to stop; sometimes,
     after stopping, a driver fails to yield the right of way. How often
     have you been at a four-way stop when one driver mistakenly took the
     right of way? Poor judgment regarding right-of-way decisions adds
     another 362,000 collisions per year in the United States.

     More complex than identifying potential stop sign runners, stop sign
     "movement assistance" to identify right-of-way priority would
     require algorithms that "must model vehicle movements at the
     intersection based on the results of individual driver decisions,
     distill opportunities for individual vehicles to move, and then
     control messaging to drivers that will effect movements with
     extremely high reliability," said Bob Ferlis, team leader of the
     Enabling Technologies Team for FHWA's Office of Operations Research
     and Development.

     If just installing a traffic signal at the intersection sounds like
     a simpler solution, think again. These intersections would already
     have traffic signals if they were warranted.

     A similar approach can be taken to create a countermeasure to
     crashes that occur when a vehicle is making a left turn and is
     struck by a vehicle approaching from the opposite direction and
     moving through the intersection at a relatively high rate of speed.
     This countermeasure would be designed to determine the speed and
     acceleration or deceleration of each vehicle approaching the
     intersection from the direction that is opposite a potential
     left-turning vehicle. Here, research pushes the limitations of
     available technology as sensors to measure both speed and
     acceleration are not yet commercially available. This is also why
     looking at technology applied in other countries such as Japan may
     have big payoffs for U.S. research and development efforts.

     In Japan, several intelligent vehicle innovations are already being
     field tested or are currently available. In addition to intelligent
     cruise-control systems that maintain a set interval between
     vehicles, there are several interesting applications of
     collision-avoidance systems. The same type of vehicle sensors that
     are used in the intelligent cruise-control systems were employed in
     Japan to avoid rear-end collisions.

     The Japanese also have what they call "Stop & Go" systems, which are
     designed for operating vehicles in heavy traffic congestion. Using
     Stop & Go, the driver controls the accelerator, but the system
     controls the brakes to maintain a safe following distance from the
     vehicle ahead. "It's like a very slow-speed cruise control," said
     Paul Olson, ITS specialist at FHWA's Western Resource Center in San
     Francisco.

     The 9th Joint U.S.-Japan Workshop on Advanced Technology in Highway
     Engineering and "Smart Cruise 21 - Demo 2000," a demonstration of
     Japanese ITS systems, were conducted in Tsukuba, Japan, Nov. 28 to
     Dec. 1, 2000. Members of the U.S. delegation to the workshop
     observed the most recent Japanese ITS developments.

     The Japanese are researching and developing other systems that rely
     on roadside sensors as well as in-vehicle sensors. A system known as
     VICS (Vehicle Information and Communications System) collects
     traffic information and puts it on the Internet to be broadcast to
     complex roadside variable message signs and to in-vehicle
     navigational devices. The traffic information collected from the
     roadside sensors is transmitted to in-vehicle devices using
     overhead-mounted infrared devices.

     The communication is two-way between the vehicle and the roadside.
     The roadside sensor sends information on congestion to the vehicle,
     and the vehicle sends information on vehicle speed and identity to
     the central computer systems. The central computer systems use the
     information to detect and predict congestion. The in-vehicle devices
     also receive information over FM radio channels and the antennae for
     the FM part of the system are quite distinctive.

     In Japan, in-vehicle navigation systems are very popular and about
     60 percent of the in-vehicle navigation systems are VICS-compatible.
     By March 2001, approximately 2.8 million automobiles in Japan were
     equipped with VICS receivers, and VICS service is available in 28 of
     Japan's 47 prefectures (provinces) and on all Japanese expressways.


     Car with Details of Systems

                      Adaptive Cruise Control Illustration.

     Lane Tracking System Illustration.

     Figure 4 - IVI includes several different types of advanced safety
     systems.

     Using Intelligent Vehicle Technology to Avoid Crashes Waiting to
     Happen
     When one vehicle runs a red light and hits two others in an
     intersection, it is a senseless human tragedy. Frequently, witnesses
     watch vehicles collide as if in slow motion, but remain helpless to
     warn oncoming vehicles. The U.S.-Japan ITS Joint Research Program
     promises to create countermeasures to avoid many of the crashes that
     are just waiting to happen. The countermeasures will assist humans
     in seeing the dangers ahead, provide warnings before it's too late,
     or create intelligent vehicles and roadways that will protect us
     from the human errors that often lead to collisions.

     Intelligent vehicle (IV) technology can augment human senses and
     reflexes and provide drivers with warnings in enough time to stay
     safe. Done right, it's like having an angel on your shoulder.

     Despite all the promise of IV technology, researchers remain
     cautious and highly conscious that effective warning devices will
     require substantive human-centered research and experimentation to
     ensure that the warnings are clear and do not provide drivers with
     additional distractions. Just like cell phones, which have enhanced
     safety by allowing motorists to call for emergency aid more quickly
     than ever before, all gadgets placed inside the vehicle can
     potentially distract the driver. In-vehicle, high-tech additions
     require an interesting balancing act. Is the newest gizmo a
     potential lifesaver or a dangerous distraction? Alerting drivers to
     unsafe situations that they cannot see or predict down the road
     would be a powerful tool to reduce crash rates as long as the
     devices do not provide the human brain more information than it can
     handle while maintaining control of a vehicle.

     To guard against creating hazards instead of eliminating crashes,
     researchers in both countries agree that human-centered
     considerations play a large role in bringing emerging IV systems to
     market. Researchers are also aware that it will take time for
     drivers to adapt to the new high-tech systems and new rules. The
     specifics pertaining to designing collision countermeasures,
     introducing collision-avoidance systems on public roadways, and
     determining which countermeasures work best in particular locations
     are all complex issues for which "two heads [or two countries
     working together] are better than one." Both countries intend to
     learn from each other's successes and failures.

     Meet the ITS Joint Research Program's Japanese Research Fellows

        As part of ongoing cooperation with Japan, the Federal Highway
        Administration (FHWA) has hosted for several years a research fellow
        from Japan. Each year, a Japanese research fellow works with FHWA's
        Office of Operations Research and Development at the Turner-Fairbank
        Highway Research Center in McLean, Va. The fellow brings to the United
        States a wealth of experience and information about research activities
        in Japan and facilitates cooperation on a variety of topics of mutual
        interest, including support for the ITS Joint Research Program.

        Kotaro Kato, the incoming research fellow, majored in civil engineering
        at Hokkaido University, where he graduated in 1985. For the past three
        years, he has worked for Japan's Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, and
        Transport (MLIT) and is currently deputy director of the Road Traffic
        Control Division for the Road Bureau.

        "The ministry has been promoting R&D [research and development] and the
        implementation of ITS systems, such as VICS [Vehicle Information and
        Communications System, designed to provide traffic information], ETC
        [Electronic Toll Collection System, designed to automate toll
        collection], and AHS [Advanced Cruise-Assist Highway Systems, designed
        to provide driving support]," he said. Kato has been involved in many
        intelligent transportation systems (ITS) applications, but he is
        especially proud of ETC and AHS.

        "ETC services started in the Tokyo metropolitan area in spring 2001
        after several years of R&D," he said. "In my former job in the Toll
        Road Section of the ministry, I was involved in having ETC go a step
        further into the R&D phase.

     Shigenobu Kawasaki.

     Shigenobu Kawasaki, previous Japanese research fellow.

        "As for AHS, our efforts are bearing fruit - our proving tests, Smart
        Cruise 21, which started last October in Tsukuba City, were successful.
        During the proving tests session, we held Demo 2000, a four-day
        demonstration of AHS from Nov. 28 to Dec. 1. About 2,400 participants
        experienced AHS there. I was fully involved in these proving tests and
        demonstration."

        While at FHWA, Kato will be involved in exchanging information and
        coordinating the joint activities of the U.S. and Japanese governments
        in the ITS field.

        "I hope I can help advance the U.S.-Japan ITS Joint Research Program
        for intersection collision-avoidance systems," he said.
        An avid skier who grew up in a snowy region of Japan, he sees his
        fellowship as an exciting opportunity for someone who has never lived
        in the United States.

        "I want to learn many things about the United States - history,
        culture, and so on," he said. "I hope to broaden my views and make good
        friends."

     Kotaro Kato.

     Kotaro Kato, current Japanese research fellow.

        Kato began his fellowship at FHWA in May, replacing Shigenobu Kawasaki.
        During his year at FHWA, Kawasaki helped to coordinate the launching of
        the ITS Joint Research Program between FHWA and MLIT. MLIT has
        jurisdiction over road administration in Japan - similar to FHWA - and
        it also manages national highways just as state departments of
        transportation do in the United States. An important distinction is
        that, unlike FHWA, MLIT is in charge of both ITS R&D and ITS deployment
        in Japan.

        Differences between the two countries abound, Kawasaki said, especially
        "geographic features, culture, traffic rules, and so on. Therefore,
        each conclusion about intersection collision-avoidance systems may be
        very different in our two countries." These differences are precisely
        why he feels it is so important to continually share information about
        each idea and R&D approach. The ITS Joint Research Program is the tool
        that will help advance our understanding of appropriate ITS solutions
        for each country.

        Kawasaki holds a master's degree in civil engineering from the Tokyo
        Institute of Technology, and for 15 years, he has worked in the
        Japanese Ministry of Construction, which, along with the former
        Ministry of Transport and two other agencies, was integrated into the
        new MLIT in January 2001.

        Prior to his fellowship at FHWA, Kawasaki was deputy director of the
        Planning Division for the Road Bureau of the Ministry of Construction
        in Tokyo.

        "In Japan," he explained, "a national government employee moves from
        one area of the ministry to another at about two-year intervals. At my
        level in the ministry, we are required to rotate through various branch
        offices and research positions outside the ministry's main office in
        Tokyo."

        Previously in charge of budgeting, planning, and implementing various
        ITS programs for the Ministry of Construction, he was responsible for
        creating a "Comprehensive Plan for ITS" in Japan and for launching VICS
        in 1996.

        "I enjoyed the daily office life [in the United States] very much,
        thanks to the kindness and support of many FHWA staff members,"
        Kawasaki said.
        While here, he studied FHWA administrative systems, including ITS
        activities. FHWA administrative systems, he said, are more highly
        developed than those in Japan.

        His wife and two children, ages 7 and 11, also enjoyed their American
        adventure. The Kawasakis spent much of their free time visiting U.S.
        national parks.

        As a contributor to the progress of cooperation between FHWA and MLIT,
        Kawasaki hopes to be able to continue to promote substantial
        information exchanges about ITS activities between both countries.

        Summing up his work experience here, he said, "Although the United
        States and Japan are halfway around the world from each other, I found
        more similarities than differences. In particular, I found that the
        national government staffs in both countries share the same dedication
        and professional goals regarding ITS."
            ______________________________________________________

     Reference
     Robert Ferlis. Infrastructure Systems - Intersection Collision
     Avoidance: Overview of Concepts, Federal Highway Administration,
     Washington, D.C., March 2001.

     Cathy Frye is the founder of The Fresh Eye, a woman-owned sole
     proprietorship established in 1994 to provide writing, editing, and
     publications management services. She holds a degree in writing from
     Johns Hopkins University and has more than 20 years of experience as
     a writer and editor. She has worked on various FHWA projects in the
     past, including the 1997 and 1998 Research and Technology Program
     Highlights reports.
                      __________________________________

     Other Articles in this Issue:

     HELP WANTED - Meeting the Need for Tomorrow's Transportation Work
     Force

     The Dwight David Eisenhower Transportation Fellowship Program:
     Preparing for the Future of Transportation

     The Millennium Manual Matters

     QuickZone

     Iowa's Approach to Environmental Stewardship

     Moveable Barrier Solves Work-Zone Dilemma

     Learning From the Big Dig

     A Light at the End of the Tunnel

     International Cooperation to Prevent Collisions at Intersections

     Pay Attention - Buckle Up: Safe Driving Is a Full-Time Job
                      __________________________________

                       TFHRC Home  |  FHWA  |  U.S. DOT
