http://phobos-srv.chm.bnl.gov/overview.htm

   [USEMAP:phobosbanner.gif]

   [Home] [Detector] [Internal] [Search]

   Click here for slides

   Overview of Project

   Brookhaven Info

   Contacting Collaboration

   Schedules

   Pictures

   Publications

   Presentations

   Computing

   Mirror sites

Copyright 2002 by the Phobos Collaboration. All rights reserved.
Contact webmaster with
questions or comments.



The Physics Background for non-scientists.

   Physicists have overwhelming evidence that nuclear matter is made of
   point-like quarks and gluons, but no one has ever seen a free quark or
   gluon. The quarks and gluons seem to be confined inside hadrons such as
   protons and neutrons. Inside these entities the quarks and gluons
   behave as free particles. It is part of the theory called Quantum
   Chromo Dynamics (QCD). It is a consequence of the properties of empty
   space, i.e. of the vacuum. By compressing nuclei so that individual
   protons and neutrons overlap or dump an enormous amount of energy into
   a very small volume, it should be possible to create a much greater
   volume in which there are free quarks and gluons. This state is called
   a Quark-Gluon Plasma (QGP). If physicists can create it, the study of
   QGP should cast light on QCD and the problem of confinement.
   If physicists are able to create a QGP it will expand and decay into
   hadrons (strongly interacting particles such as protons, neutrons, and
   pions) and will recreate the scenario that occurred at about a
   micro-second after the Big Bang. At that time the energy which is
   inside our present universe occupied a volume of about the size of our
   solar system. It consisted entirely of the QGP at a temperature of
   about 1,000,000,000,000 degrees. It was rapidly expanding and cooling.
   Suddenly the temperature fell below a critical value and a phase
   transition occurred. This process is analogous to droplets forming in
   cooled steam. For the first time in the history of the universe,
   nuclear matter (protons, neutrons, etc.) was created. Recreating and
   studying the process, even on a very small scale, may teach physicists
   something about the evolution of the universe.
   As a by-product, the study of the QGP may also give scientists
   information about the properties of the vacuum. The present
   understanding of the vacuum is that it is anything but empty. It is
   full of fluctuations; particles are appearing and disappearing. The
   vacuum can be characterized by the type of fluctuations that occur.
   Theorists have speculated that following the decay of a QGP,
   occasionally a different state of the vacuum might be produced.

                                  [vac.gif]

   How will the Quark Gluon Plasma be created and studied?
   The cartoon below illustrates how it might be possible to create the
   QGP. Scientists believe that if nuclei are accelerated to velocities
   which are very close to the speed of light, and then made to collide
   head-on, they will either be compressed sufficiently or dump enough
   energy in a small volume to produce the QGP.

                                 [cars.gif]

   Facilities have been built in the US and Europe to accelerate nuclei to
   higher and higher velocities and to study these collisions. To date,
   there is no clear evidence of the creation of a QGP.
   With the completion of the construction of Relativistic Heavy Ion
   Collider (RHIC) in 1999 a major advance will occur. The collider will
   accelerate gold in two separate rings which will circulate in opposite
   directions around a pair of superconducting magnet rings in a tunnel
   3.8 kilometers in circumference. The gold nuclei will reach speeds
   which are equal to 99.995% of the speed of light, and in their
   collisions energy densities will be produced equivalent to the mass of
   the earth in volume 10 x 10 x 10 meters.
   The gold nuclei will be made to collide at four locations around the
   rings. Here sophisticated detectors will be placed to examine the
   consequences of the collisions. Since the precise outcome of these
   collisions is not known, each detector is optimized to be sensitive to
   different possible outcomes. One of the four detectors is called
   Phobos.

An Overview of Phobos

   The Phobos concept is based on the premise that interesting collisions
   will be rare but that when they do occur the new physics will be
   readily identified. Thus the Phobos detector is designed to be able to
   examine and analyze a very large number of unselected gold-gold
   collisions. For each collision the detector gives a global picture of
   the consequences of the collision and detailed information about a
   small subset of the nuclear fragments ejected from the high energy
   density region.

The PHOBOS Detector

   PHOBOS consists of many silicon detectors surrounding the interaction
   region. With these detectors physicists will be able to count the total
   number of produced particles and study the angular distributions of all
   the products. With this array they will be on the look out for unusual
   events, fluctuations in the number of particles and angular
   distribution. Physicists know from other branches of physics that a
   characteristic of phase transitions are fluctuations in physical
   observables. In order to obtain more detailed information about these
   events the PHOBOS detector will also have two high quality magnetic
   spectrometers which will study, in detail, 1% of the produced
   particles.
   The PHOBOS detector will be able to measure quantities such as the
   temperature, size, and density of the fireball produced in the
   collision. It will also study the ratios of the various particles
   produced. With this information it should be possible to both detect
   and study a phase transition that might occur between QGP and ordinary
   nuclear matter. With PHOBOS, the group hopes to discover the QGP and
   learn more about confinement and the early universe.
