http://arise.jpl.nasa.gov/arise/blackholes/blackholes.html

                                                 Massive black holes title

     Massive black holes are now thought to be located at the centers of
   galaxies found throughout the universe. These objects, millions or
   billions of times more massive than the Sun, have gravity so strong
   that not even light can escape them. They are the "monsters" that power
   the most energetic objects known in the universe, and are the key
   targets of the proposed ARISE mission. ARISE would address a number of
   questions about massive black holes:



   --------- ARISE buttons


   Are massive black holes at the centers of all galaxies?

   How are they created and fueled? 1

   What do they do with their fuel?

   How massive are they?

   What is the physics of the accretion disk surrounding black holes?

   What are the extreme physical conditions they generate?

   How do black holes eject tremendous amounts of matter at nearly the
   speed of light in quasars, the most extreme and violent objects in the
   universe?



        Massive Black Holes Information Center - Enter at your own risk

              Visit the Massive Black Holes Information Center

   The existence of black holes is predicted from Einstein's theory of
   general relativity, now more than 80 years old. But scientists didn't
   really believe such objects existed until the 1960s, when evidence
   began to accumulate that some old stars had collapsed to form small
   black holes just a few times more massive than our sun.

    During the 1960s, QUASARS were also discovered. They are found in the
   centers of galaxies billions of light years away, shining brilliantly
   from across the universe. Their enormous energy output can only be
   produced by huge (and hungry!) black holes. Such objects have the mass
   of a sizable galaxy crammed into a region no larger than our own solar
   system. Their density is so high that it's as if the entire mass of the
   Earth were shrunk down into a region less than an inch across.We can't
   "see" a black hole, since no light escapes from it. But we can take a
   radio "picture" of the region surrounding a black hole in a quasar, and
   even weigh the black holes in some galaxies. We do this using the
   technique of VERY LONG BASELINE INTERFEROMETRY (VLBI).

   In VLBI observations, radio telescopes all around the Earth
   simultaneously view the same quasar or galaxy, effectively creating a
   single radio telescope the size of the Earth. But the Earth isn't big
   enough! We need radio telescopes even farther apart, in orbit around
   the Earth, to take more detailed pictures of the regions surrounding
   massive black holes. ARISE would orbit a large radio telescope as much
   as 30,000 miles above the Earth, working with ground radio telescopes
   to do SPACE VLBI, and to provide images with more than 1000 times the
   angular resolution of the Hubble Space Telescope. This is the ONLY way
   we can image the regions so close to the monsters lurking inside
   quasars.

                                 [agn2.GIF]



                                  NGC 4261



                         [ISMAP:ngc1068.jpg]-NGC 1068

                    (Image credit: Miskey and Bruhweiler)















                            Quasar 3C 273 and jet

   Above right: Hubble image shows a jet shooting away from the quasar 3C
   273. Left: VLBI image from the Very Long Baseline Array shows the inner
   few light years of this jet, shooting away from the quasar nucleus at
   nearly the speed of light. Credit: VLBI image from the VLBA (Kellermann
   et al. 1998)















           At left: The heart of an active galactic nucleus (AGN)



   More about ARISE
   To learn more about the science, mission , technology of ARISE, visit
   the appropriate section in this site.

                         Last Updated: Feb. 5, 1999
