http://stp.gsfc.nasa.gov/missions/gec/gec.htm


   STP PROGRAM OFFICE:
   Home
   Organization
   Program Objectives
   Education & Outreach
   Configuration Management
   Library
   ISO 9001
   Schedules
   Dictionary
   Acronyms
   What's Hot
   Image Gallery
   STP - MISSIONS:
   TIMED
   STEREO
   SOLAR-B
   MMS
   GEC
   MC
   RELATED SITES
   Living with a Star
   NASA
   GSFC
   NASA - Office of Space Science
   SEC
   NASA Logo Geospace Electrodynamic Connections (GEC)

   Mission Overview | Science Thrusts | Mission Scenarios | Measurements |
     Technology | Preliminary Spacecraft Design | Current Status | IMDC
       Results '99 | IMDC Results '01 | AGU Fall '99 | Related Sites |
   Schedule | Presentations| UMCP Hypersonic Aerodynamic Report | May 2001
       STDT Report | [newc.gif] Applicable Documents for RSDO Mission
                        Accomodation Study [newc.gif]

     GEC - Four dipping spacecraft, which can independently change orbit

     GEC: Four dipping spacecraft, which can independently change orbit.

   Mission Overview:

   The transition region between the magnetosphere and dense atmosphere,
   i.e., the ionosphere-thermosphere (IT), plays an essential role as the
   electrical conductivity channel that closes the magnetic field-aligned
   magnetospheric electric current loop. Also, it may play an important
   role in the global electric field circuit. It is the source region for
   magnetospheric plasma and a regime in which there is a continual
   tug-of-war between magnetosphere and lower atmosphere driven dynamics.
   It is a time varying and spatially complex medium. The IT region is a
   critical sink for energy and momentum emanating from both below and
   above. It is a time varying and spatially complex medium, controlled by
   processes with large ranges of spatial and temporal scales. The
   relative importance of the different scales and the coupling
   interactions between the different scales still elude our
   understanding. A "single"-spacecraft mission to probe this inner
   boundary region of the geospace environment is not capable of
   unambiguously resolving the spatial and temporal complexities.
   Measurements of changes within an already dynamic system must be made.
   The perturbations and coupling can only be resolved in space and time
   by successive measurements in the same volume of space. Ground-based
   remote sensing techniques, such as Incoherent Scatter Radar, can
   examine some of these processes, but there are key parameters,
   space/time scales and locations in space that can only be measured in
   situ from satellite platforms. The Geospace Electrodynamic Connections
   (GEC) mission, consisting of a cluster of 4 satellites, combined with
   ground-based observations will make systematic multi-point measurements
   to delineate and bring to closure our understanding of key roles the IT
   plays in the Sun-Earth connection.

                     Varied Spatial and Temporal Scales

   Energetic Inputs Current Systems IT Coupling Thermospheric Waves

                              Energetic Inputs

                               Current Systems

                                 IT Coupling

                             Thermospheric Waves

                                     Top

   Science Thrusts:

   The theme of the mission is to establish the role of the
   ionosphere/thermosphere in the electrodynamic environment of near-Earth
   space. Within this context the GEC science objectives are:
    1. To observe the magnetospheric energy transfer to the ionosphere and
       thermosphere by making space-time resolved observations in the
       transfer region.
    2. To determine the key processes and their space-time scales for
       coupling between the ionosphere-thermosphere as magnetospheric
       energy is dissipated.

                                     Top

   Mission Scenarios:

   The GEC Science and Technology Definition Team (STDT) chosen by NASA
   Headquarters are finalizing the mission definition. It will be a
   focused two-year investigation of the most important
   magnetosphere-ionosphere-atmosphere coupling regions between 130 km and
   2000 km. In order to resolve space-time ambiguities four identically
   instrumented spacecraft, with approximately 10 instruments for
   measuring critical plasma and neutral parameters, will be launched from
   the same Delta launch vehicle. Initially the satellites will be placed
   in identical high inclination elliptical parking orbits (~200 km by
   2000 km). The spacing between the spacecraft in this pearls-on-a-string
   configuration will be varied from ~ 10 km to 1/4 of the orbit. This
   novel variation of the spacecraft separations, using onboard
   propulsion, will allow unique observations of important ranges of
   temporal and spatial scales. Each spacecraft, carrying more than 200 kg
   of propulsion fuel will have the capability of executing more than a
   dozen weeklong dipping campaigns during the baseline 2 year mission to
   altitudes below 130 km where the atmosphere effects on plasma processes
   and spacecraft aerodynamics are prominent. These dipping sequences
   provide the opportunity for new discoveries because no previous
   spacecraft have explored this low altitude region with GEC ‘s complete
   complement of plasma and neutral atmosphere measuring instruments.
   Later in the mission the 4 spacecraft will be maneuvered into different
   orbit configurations, a petal formation or relative changes in local
   time which will allow one to resolve vertical and horizontal
   structures.


                   String-of-Pearls and Petal Formulations
                    String-of-Pearls and Petal Formations.

                                     Top

   Measurements:

   Measurements are needed of the concentrations of all relevant IT
   constituents, their temperatures and velocities, the local electric and
   magnetic fields and the energetic particle distributions. The core
   measurements will be made by in situ measuring sensors. To provide a
   global context to the in situ observations (e.g., the flow fields and
   plasma effects away from the spacecraft) would require remote-sensing
   detectors. The preliminary spacecraft design includes both in-situ
   measuring detectors and remote viewing sensors. The spacecraft are
   3-axis spin stabilized to avoid compromising the in situ sampling
   instrument observations. This attitude configuration will allow for the
   positioning of nadir looking or limb scanning optical devices. The
   flat, front ram face of the spacecraft will hold the instruments for
   thermal plasma and neutral gas measurements, which use the ram speed of
   the spacecraft to efficiently sample the environment. The solar arrays
   are to be body mounted and electrically conducting, in order to
   minimize perturbations on the plasma measurements due to spacecraft
   shadowing and spacecraft electric fields.

                                     Top

   Technology:

   GEC consists of multiple dipping spacecraft with planned changes in
   their spatial separations and with excursions down into the dense edge
   of the Earth’s atmosphere where atmospheric drag introduces a variable
   effect on the spacecraft. Precise formation flying and accurate control
   of the locations of the science measurements is necessary. This will
   entail the utilization of improvements in navigation (particularly
   inter-spacecraft ranging and direction), inter-spacecraft
   communications and autonomous operations. Efficient aerodynamic
   structures, lightweight structures and instruments, and maximally
   efficient power systems will be needed to minimize system resources and
   to maximize instrument duty cycles. This is especially important
   because of the dipping requirements and orbital configuration changes,
   which require the use of large amounts of propulsion fuel and stringent
   attitude control.

                                     Top

   Preliminary Spacecraft Design:

   While new technologies are not required to perform the basic mission,
   there are new technologies that can be adapted to the GEC mission that
   could significantly increase the mass and power margins, improve
   measurement performance and reduce risk. This will translate to
   additional instrument capability and reduced spacecraft cost.
   Technologies currently being explored include aerodynamic trim tabs,
   integrated power and attitude control system (IPACS), lightweight
   electric field instrument booms, electrically conductive solar arrays
   and atomic oxygen resistant material.


                                [gec.ht7.jpg]

                                     Top

   Current Status:

   GEC was cited as a future mission in NASA’s Sun-Earth Connection
   Roadmap. It was initially developed by the Geospace Multiprobes Science
   Definition Team. A preliminary spacecraft design was made by Orbital
   Sciences Corporation to bracket cost and weight constraints. A
   Community Science Workshop held at GSFC solicited an overview of what
   scientists thought the goals of GEC should be. A Science and Technology
   Definition Team (STDT) was selected in May 1998. The Integrated Mission
   Design Center at GSFC refined the spacecraft design in accordance with
   the suggestions of the STDT. The science definition document will be
   completed by the end of 1999.

   GEC Science & Technology Definition Team

                                     Top

   AGU Fall '99 Meeting, Moscone Center, San Francisco, California:
     * Design Challenges of Power Systems for Instrumented Spacecraft with
       Very Low Perigees in the Earth's Ionosphere (V. Moran, D. Manzer,
       R. Pfaff, J. Grebowsky, J. Gervin)
     * System Level Design Issues for Dipping Spacecraft - Poster Session
       (S. Hynes, D. Manzer)
     * Technology and Mission Design Considerations for GEC, a Dipping
       Multiple Spacecraft Mission - Poster Session (J. Gervin, J.
       Grebowsky, S. Hynes, D. Manzer)
     * Orbital Dynamics Considerations for Low Perigee Satellite Missions
       in the Earth's Lower Ionosphere (M. Mesarch, S. Hynes, J. Gervin,
       D. Manzer, J. Grebowsky, R. Pfaff)
     * Design-Space Study of Low-Perigee Spacecraft (S. Bowman, M. Lewis)

                                     Top

   Related Sites:
     * GSFC's Formulation Office GEC Website

                                     Top

   Presentations:
     * GEC Presentation to the 25th European Geophysical Society General
       Assembly, April 2000

                                     Top

   Reports:
     * GEC University of Maryland - College Park - Numerical Optimization
       of Low-Perigee Spacecraft - MS Powerpoint Format

     * GEC University of Maryland - College Park - Numerical Optimization
       of Low-Perigee Spacecraft - Adobe PDF Format

                                     Top

   Applicable Documents for RSDO Mission Accommodation Study:


                                 Document #
                                 Title/Link
                                 MDC-00H0016
                  Delta II Payload Planner's Guide (Boeing)
                                460-RQMT-0023
                   STP Mission Assurance Requirements Doc.
                                   GEVS-SE
    General Environmental Verification Specification STS & ELV Payloads,
                         Subsystems, and Components
                             NASA/TM-2001-209980
     Understanding Plasma Interactions with the Atmosphere: The Geospace
                               Electrodynamic
                                 NPD 8710.3
                    NASA Policy Limiting Orbiting Debris
                                 NSS 1740.14
      Guidelines and Assessment Procedure for Limiting Orbiting Debris
                                 Generation

                                     Top
