http://ecolloq.gsfc.nasa.gov/archive/2000-Fall/sched.html


                        Goddard Engineering Colloquia

                             Fall 2000 Schedule

   All colloquia are held at 3:30 p. m. on Mondays in the Building 3
   Auditorium, unless otherwise indicated below. Any changes in the
   schedule will be indicated on this page with the minimum possible
   delay.        NOTE:  Anticipated construction in the Building 3
   Auditorium may begin in November.  Check these pages periodically for
   information on possible changes of location for November or December
   colloquia.

   NOTE: Readers are encouraged to print and post the announcements
   pointed to under "Topic" in the table below. For best printing results
   using Netscape Navigator, the suggested browser font size setting is
   12. For other browsers, it may be necessary to experiment. Feedback
   concerning printing problems would be welcomed by the author of these
   web pages.

   NOTE: Information to update the vacant slots in the table below will be
   provided as soon as it becomes available.

   Date Topic Speaker
   September 18
   (Annual Schneebaum
   Award Lecture) How the Laser Happened -- The Interaction Between
   Science and Engineering Charles H. Townes
   September 25 DLP Cinema Projectors: Coming Soon to a Theater Near You
   Larry J. Hornbeck
   Texas Instruments
   October 2 Using the Spacecraft Supermarket: Results and Lessons
   Learned  Bill Watson
   GSFC Rapid Spacecraft
   Development Office
   October 9
   (No Colloquium --
   Holiday)
   October 16 Should We Bury or Praise Baron Jean Baptiste Joseph Fourier?
   Norden Huang
   NASA/GSFC
   October 23 Future Commercial Space Transportation: Challenges and
   Opportunities Gary Hudson
   Rotary Rocket Company
   October 30 Space Policy in the Next Fifty Years: Will It Be "Faster,
   Better, Cheaper?" Howard McCurdy
   November 6 The Living Universe at the Millennium Lynn Harper
   NASA/Ames
   November 13 The Earth Observing System: Status of the First Series and
   Early Science Investigations Michael King
   GSFC
   November 20 Halo Orbits Kathleen Howell
   November 27 Deep Space 1: A High-Tech, High-Risk, High-Success NASA
   Test-Mission into the Solar System Joseph E. Riedel
   Jet Propulsion Lab
   December 4 Scientific Highlights of NEAR Shoemaker Andrew F. Cheng
   Johns Hopkins University
   Applied Physics Laboratory
   December 11 The Engineering Feasibility of Interstellar Flight Robert
   L. Forward
   Consultant

   Return to Engineering Colloquium home page at
   http://ecolloq.gsfc.nasa.gov/

   Notice: Nothing appearing in these pages is to be construed as an
   endorsement by NASA.
