http://www.nrc.gov/site-help/privacy.html

   Skip Navigation

NRC Seal
         Site Help | Site Index | Contact Us     __________   Submit    Advanced
         Search

   U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission

        Home Who We Are What We Do Nuclear Reactors Nuclear Materials
        Radioactive Waste Public Involvement Electronic Reading Room


   Site Help
   Advanced Search
   Index A-Z
   Site Map
   What's New
   Plug-Ins and Document Types Used at this Site
   Special Features
   Electronic Information Exchange
   NRC Site Accessibility
   Contact the Web Site Staff
   Privacy Statement
   Site Disclaimer

   Home > Site Help > Privacy Statement

Privacy Statement

   NRC Protects Your Privacy

   Thank you for visiting the Nuclear Regulatory Commission's Web site and
   reviewing our privacy policy. This is how we will handle information we
   learn about you from your visit to our web site. The information we
   receive depends upon what you do when visiting our site.

   If you visit our site, we collect and store only the following
   information about you:
     * The IP address (a number that is automatically assigned to your
       computer when you are using the Internet) from which you access our
       web site;
     * The pages you visit; and
     * The date and time you access our site.

   If you send us an email message or on-line form that includes personal
   information (for example, your e-mail address, mailing address, or
   telephone number), we will only use the information for the reason you
   provided it. However, if you are commenting on a proposed rulemaking or
   petition, all information submitted in your comments, including
   personal information will be posted at the Current NRC Rulemakings Web
   page. Personal information will not be removed.

   Use of Cookies

   NRC may use "session cookies" as place-keepers to retain context during
   an individual user session. They assist with movement throughout the
   site during an individual user session without any capacity to track
   users over time and across different web sites. Session cookies are
   discarded on completion of a user session or expire based on a short
   time frame and are not used to track personal information.

   What NRC Does with Site Usage Data

   For site management, NRC maintains an operational log of site user
   addresses. This log is used to generate site usage statistics, to track
   operational problems, and to investigate suspected unauthorized
   activities. Information about individual users is shared only with
   appropriate law enforcement entities if necessary to investigate or
   prosecute unlawful activities conducted on or against this site.

   For site security purposes and to ensure that this site remains
   available to all users, NRC employs software programs to monitor
   network traffic to identify unauthorized attempts to upload or change
   information, or to otherwise cause damage. Unauthorized attempts to
   upload information or change information on this server are strictly
   prohibited and may be punishable under the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act
   of 1986 and the National Information Infrastructure Protection Act.

   Except for authorized law enforcement investigations and the gathering
   of site usage statistics, no other attempts are made to identify
   individual users or their usage habits. Raw data logs are used for no
   other purposes and are scheduled for regular destruction in accordance
   with National Archives and Records Administration [EXIT] guidelines.
