http://wags.gsfc.nasa.gov/about.html

   clear clear clear
   wags graphic about page clear
   site links
   Print only Version


   clear

   Web Applications
   Web Site Design / Print Graphics
   Forms Processing
   WAGS Team
   The Web Applications and Graphics Services Group (WAGS) has been
   building data base driven web applications and designing web sites
   since 1995. That's eons in web time!

   Our team has a diversified skill set for building web applications and
   unique, visually engaging web sites. WAGS has developed a number of web
   based Forms Processing Work Flow applications that are applicable to
   many organization's paper form processes. These web based applications
   are customizable and we will tailor them to your needs or create custom
   applications based on our libraries of reusable building blocks.
   Of course if you just need help setting up a server, interfacing a web
   cam, creating a slick graphic or animation or need recommendations on
   COTS tools. We can help. Email Brian Drake with all inquiries.


   Forms Processing Applications

   We can automate your paper based processes on the web. A typical paper
   process is a form that is filled out by a requestor for services of
   some sort. The form is then moved through a number of levels of
   approval/signoff and is finally turned over to someone to implement the
   service. A web/email based processes expedites the flow, creates better
   tracking and visibility, can record statistics, minimizes errors, is
   configurable, uses email to notify all cognizant parties of the state
   of a request.

   Existing, proven Internet tools, the World Wide Web and email, together
   with SQL databases are combined through Common Gateway Interface (CGI)
   programming to produce powerful work-flow Internet applications that
   make time- and event-driven management processes more efficient for
   computer-supported-cooperative work than the more traditional methods
   of work. Common subsystem areas are identified from which a generic
   form processing application architecture has developed that could be
   followed to rapidly develop succeeding applications - with high degrees
   of code reuse.

   For more information see our products and services pages.

   Top of Page


   Web Applications Skills/Technologies
     * CGI web programming in Perl, Object Perl, Javascript, DHTML,
       HTML,C++,C
     * Database Interfacing with SYBASE, Cold Fusion, MSQL
     * Server Setup and Administration on Unix and NT operating systems
     * Object Oriented Software Design for Forms processing
     * Graphical User Interfaces for Web Applications
     * Web Cam Interfacing for Live Webcasts or Stills
     * COTS Web Programming, Testing and Database Admin Tools Evaluation

   More about our Forms Processing Work Flow applications.

   Top of Page


   Web Site and Graphic Design Skills/Technologies
     * Site Design based on Information Architecture, Usability and
       Graphic Design principles
     * Unique Custom Graphics development in Photoshop, Illustrator,
       Fireworks (portfolio)
     * Animations in Gif89, Javascript, video formats (portfolio)
     * Web Cam Interfacing for Live Webcasts or Stills
     * Web Server Setup, Administration and Hosting
     * User Interface Design for Web applications based on the above
       technologies.
     * COTS Web Design and Graphics Tools Evaluation
     * Poster and Brochure Graphic Design

   See our Portfolio Page for examples of our design work.

   Top of Page


   The WAGS Team
     * Brian Drake: Team Lead
     * Elfrieda Harris
     * Steve Sabia
     * Stuart Dogger


   Top of Page

   Nasa Official: Brian Drake Author/Curator : Steve Sabia  Privacy
   Statement
   functional nasa logo
