http://www.usda.gov/news/releases/2001/11/0217.htm

                               [image002.jpg]

Release No. 0217.01

                                               Tim McNeilly (202) 690-0498



USDA ANNOUNCES FUNDING FOR NATIONAL CENTERS OF EXCELLENCE


               WASHINGTON, November 1, 2001 – The U.S. Department of
   Agriculture today announced funding for the eight National Centers of
   Excellence that help promote economic development in under-served rural
   communities.


   "Centers of Excellence play a key role in bringing new ideas, revenue
   sources, and hope to under-served rural communities," said Agriculture
   Secretary Ann M. Veneman. “These partnerships will help bring economic
   opportunity to rural America.”


   The National Centers of Excellence selected include: University of
   Texas-Pan American, Texas; Somerset Community College, Kentucky;
   Heritage College, Washington; Cankdeska Cikana Community College, North
   Dakota; Crownpoint Institute of Technology, New Mexico; Fort Peck
   Community College, Montana; San Diego State University-Imperial Valley,
   California; and California State University-Fresno, California.


   The National Center of Excellence (NCE) program consists of one-year
   cooperative partnerships between eight rural institutions of higher
   education and USDA. The NCE program focuses on economic opportunity,
   sustainable community development, community-based partnerships, and a
   strategic vision for change.  The cooperative agreement creates strong
   information sharing and technical assistance links between Empowerment
   Zone and Enterprise Communities, state USDA Rural Development field
   staff, colleges/universities, civic organizations and other rural
   communities.


   Each NCE will receive $20,000 from the Department of Agriculture to
   help rural communities achieve sustainable community development. Funds
   will be administered through USDA Rural Development’s Office of
   Community Development, which is responsible for Empowerment Zones,
   Enterprise Communities, Champion Communities and rural community
   development technical assistance.


               USDA Rural Development serves as the lead federal entity
   for rural development needs, and administers program assistance through
   three agencies: Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative
   Service, and Rural Utilities Service.  Further information on USDA
   Rural Development can be obtained by contacting any USDA Service Center
   or by visiting USDA's web site at http://www.rurdev.usda.gov.

                                      #
