http://www.usda.gov/events/events.htm

   REFRESH(300 sec): http://www.usda.gov/events/events.htm

                                [header.gif]

                            [USEMAP:navstrip.gif]

                                   Events

          Sec. Ann M. Veneman green dot Former Secretaries of Agriculture
          [greenba.gif] Secretary's Biographical Sketch
          green dot USDA's Photography Center

   President George W. Bush addresses employees and media at Cecil I.
   Walker Machinery Co. in Charleston, WV, Jan. 22.

   President George W. Bush addresses employees and media at Cecil I.
   Walker Machinery Co. in Charleston, WV, Jan. 22. White House Photo by
   Tina Hager.

   President Discusses Energy Plan, Economic Stimulus In West Virginia
   "We can create more opportunities by selling more products overseas. I
   spent a lot of time as the governor of Texas with the farmers. The
   agricultural sector is an incredibly important part of our economy. And
   one of the benefits we have as a nation is we can feed ourselves.
   That's good for the national security interest, by the way. But we
   produce more food than we need. We ought to be selling it overseas. The
   more markets available for U.S. products, the more likely it is
   somebody is going to find work."

       President George W. Bush receives a 4H National Recognition for
    Outstanding Service Award from Jared Locklear, Texas 4H Council, 2nd
     Vice President as Secretary Ann M. Veneman and Deputy Secretary Jim
                              Moseley look on.

   USDA Photo 02di1301-11
   President Bush and Secretary Veneman Kick-Off 4-H Centennial
   Anniversary
   President George W. Bush receives a 4H National Recognition for
   Outstanding Service Award from Jared Locklear, Texas 4H Council, 2nd
   Vice President as Secretary Ann M. Veneman and Deputy Secretary Jim
   Moseley look on.

   Secretary Ann M. Veneman visits with Missouri FFA leaders at local feed
                     mill with President George W. Bush.

   USDA Photo 011402-0019
   Secretary Ann M. Veneman visits with Missouri FFA leaders at local feed
   mill with President George W. Bush.

   President George W. Bush talks with assembly worker Deborah Davis after
     starting up a combine with a gold-plated ignition key at John Deere
        Harvester Works in East Moline, Ill., Monday, Jan. 14, 2002.

   AP Photo by J. Scott Applewhite

   President Discusses Economic Growth at John Deere Facility
   President Bush visits the Midwest to promote his economic agenda,
   Monday, January 14, 2002. With his first stop in East Moline, Ill.,
   Bush visits workers at the John Deere factory, the nation's largest
   manufacturer of agricultural machinery. With the president at left is
   Deere Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Bob Lane. At right are
   Agriculture Secretary Ann M. Veneman and Commerce Secretary Don Evans.

   President George W. Bush talks with assembly worker Deborah Davis after
     starting up a combine with a gold-plated ignition key at John Deere
        Harvester Works in East Moline, Ill., Monday, Jan. 14, 2002.

   White House photo by Eric Draper.

   President Discusses Economic Growth at John Deere Facility
   President George W. Bush talks with assembly worker Deborah Davis after
   starting up a combine with a gold-plated ignition key at John Deere
   Harvester Works in East Moline, Ill., Monday, Jan. 14, 2002. "I'm
   confident in the American farmer," said the President, addressing about
   1500 employees and supporters. "I know the American farmer is more
   efficient, and can raise more crop than anybody, anywhere in the
   world."

   Secretary Ann M. Veneman and Senator Pat Roberts from Kansas discussing
       Farm Policy with Farm Radio Broadcasters on December 20, 2001.

   USDA Photo DSC_0012

   Secretary Ann M. Veneman and Senator Pat Roberts from Kansas discussing
       Farm Policy with Farm Radio Broadcasters on December 20, 2001.

   USDA Photo DSC_0024


   Secretary Ann M. Veneman and Senator Pat Roberts from Kansas discussing
   Farm Policy with Farm Radio Broadcasters on December 20, 2001.

       Secretary Ann M. Veneman released USDA funding to benefit rural
       community schools, forest stewardship, and road projects. Also,
    attending was Sen. Ron Wyden, OR, Sen. Gordon Smith, OR, Larry Craig,
    ID, Rep. Bob Goodlatte, VA, and Peter DeFazio, OR. The payments are a
     result of legislation passed by congress last year and will benefit
       public schools, forest stewardship, and road projects in rural
             communities hosting national forests in 41 states.

   USDA Photo 01di1547-9
   Secretary Ann M. Veneman released USDA funding to benefit rural
   community schools, forest stewardship, and road projects. Also,
   attending were Senators Gordon Smith, OR, Ron Wyden, OR, Larry Craig,
   ID, and Congressmen Bob Goodlatte, VA, and Peter DeFazio, OR. The
   payments are a result of legislation passed by congress last year and
   will benefit public schools, forest stewardship, and road projects in
   rural communities hosting national forests in 41 states.

    Secretary Ann M. Veneman with Senators Pat Roberts of Kansas and Thad
    Cochran of Mississippi respond to questions about farm bill proposals
   and Trade Promotion Authority from farm broadcasters across the nation
                     during a live broadcast from USDA .
   Secretary Ann M. Veneman with Senators Pat Roberts of Kansas and Thad
   Cochran of Mississippi respond to questions about farm bill proposals
   and Trade Promotion Authority from farm broadcasters across the nation
   during a live broadcast from USDA . USDA Photo 01di1545-8
   Picture President George W. Bush addressing farmers and agribusiness
   leaders at the sixth annual Farm Journal Forum in Washington Wed. Nov.
   28th. Farm Journal President and CEO Andrew Webber and Agriculture
   Secretary Ann M. Veneman is seated on the far left. USDA Photo
   01di1542-37.
   USDA Photo 01di1542-37 President George W. Bush addressing farmers and
   agribusiness leaders at the sixth annual Farm Journal Forum in
   Washington Wed. Nov. 28th. Farm Journal President and CEO Andrew Webber
   and Agriculture Secretary Ann M. Veneman are seated on the far left.

                             USTR WTO DOHA logo

    USTR Ambassador Robert B. Zoellick and USDA Secretary Ann M. Veneman

   DOHA Agriculture Negotiations at the WTO
   "President Bush, U.S. Trade Representative Zoellick and I have made
   agriculture a top priority for the new round of international trade
   talks. We are hopeful that these meetings will set the stage for
   further reductions in tariffs on U.S. agricultural products and a
   stronger science-based dispute settlement process. These areas will
   help increase access to world markets for U.S. farmers, ranchers and
   food producers." -- Secretary Ann M. Veneman

   Presidential Nominate Nancy Southard Bryson to be General Counsel of
   the Department of Agriculture

   The President intends to nominate Nancy Southard Bryson to be General
   Counsel of the Department of Agriculture. See White House release.
   Secretary Ann M. Veneman visits Duane Fire Station, where Forest
   Service workers have been supporting the tremendous efforts of the New
   York Fire Department. Secretary Ann M. Veneman visits Duane Fire
   Station, where Forest Service workers have been supporting the
   tremendous efforts of the New York Fire Department. (October 4, 2001)
   Secretary Ann M. Veneman and Brian Wing, New York State Commissioner
   for the Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance, visit the FNS
   New York Field Office. The Secretary had lunch with the employees,
   toured the Field Office, and listened to how FNS employees continue to
   assist those families affected by the events of September 11th.
   Secretary Ann M. Veneman and Brian Wing, New York State Commissioner
   for the Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance, visit the FNS
   New York Field Office. The Secretary had lunch with the employees,
   toured the Field Office, and listened to how FNS employees continue to
   assist those families affected by the events of September 11th.
   (October 4, 2001)
   Secretary Ann Veneman swears in Edward R. McPherson as the Chief
   Financial Officer for the United States Department of Agriculture.
   McPherson will oversee all financial management activities relating to
   operations and programs of the Department of Agriculture.

   Secretary Ann Veneman swears in Edward R. McPherson as the Chief
   Financial Officer for the United States Department of Agriculture.
   McPherson will oversee all financial management activities relating to
   operations and programs of the Department of Agriculture.
   USDA Photo 01di1539.01
   Biographical Sketch

   Secretary Ann Veneman, Elsa Murano, Mark Rey and Hilda Legg

   Veneman Swears in Sub Cabinet Members
   Agriculture Secretary Ann M. Veneman announced that three of the four
   members of her subcabinet, who were recently confirmed by the U.S.
   Senate have been officially sworn into office. During a private
   ceremony today, Veneman administered the oath of office to (l to r)
   Elsa A. Murano, as under secretary for food safety; Mark Rey, under
   secretary for natural resources and environment; and Hilda G. Legg, as
   administrator for the Rural Utilities Service.
   USDA Photo 01CN0115-17

   U.S. Trade Representative Robert Zoellick and Agriculture Secretary Ann
     M. Veneman Cairns Group 22nd Ministerial Meeting in Punta del Este,
                                  Uruguay.

   U.S. Trade Representative Robert Zoellick and Agriculture Secretary Ann
   M. Veneman at the Cairns Group 22nd Ministerial Meeting in Punta del
   Este, Uruguay, Sept. 4, 2001.
   Transcript from the Cairns Group 22nd Ministerial Meeting in Punta del
   Este, Uruguay Sept. 4, 2001

   Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman and Forest Service Chief Dale
   Bosworth look over the new Smokey Bear Exhibit after cutting the ribbon
   opening the new Forest Service Information Center
   USDA Photo 01di1532-15
   New Smokey Bear Exhibit at the New Forest Service Information Center

   Agriculture Secretary Ann M. Veneman and Forest Service Chief Dale
   Bosworth look over the new Smokey Bear Exhibit after cutting the ribbon
   opening the new Forest Service Information Center located in the Yates
   Building, U. S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC.
   Secretary Ann Veneman and Secretary of Agriculture for Mexico Javiar
   Usabiaga
   USDA Photo 01di1533-02

   Agriculture Secretary Ann M.Veneman meets with the Secretary of
   Agriculture for Mexico Javier Usabiaga at the U. S. Department of
   Agriculture in Washington, DC, Sept. 6, 2001.

   Statement By Secretary Of Agriculture Ann M. Veneman Regarding
   Agreement With Mexico Over U.S. Stone Fruit Exports September 5, 2001
   Enlarged Photo of Secretary Ann M Veneman and others at Groundbreaking
   Ceremony in Immokolee, Florida

   Ag Secretary Breaks Ground on $4.2 Million Migrant/Seasonal Housing
   Facility in Immokalee
   $6.9 million in USDA funds announced for other community and business
   development efforts in rural Florida
   IMMOKALEE, FL, August 29, 2001 – Agriculture Secretary Ann M.Veneman
   joined state and local officials to break ground on a 304-bed farm
   worker housing complex, to be built in Immokalee, Florida. While in
   Florida, Secretary Veneman announced the approval of an additional
   $450,000 for construction of sidewalks, water and utility
   infrastructure at the Immokalee housing site, and another $6.9 million
   in funding for other community and business development efforts in
   rural Florida.
   Secretary Ann M Veneman and Congressman John Thune talk with farmers at
   Dakotafest in Mitchell, South Dakota

   At Dakotafest, USDA Secretary Veneman Highlights Trade; Announces
   $764,000 to S.D. in Rural Development Assistance
   MITCHELL, SD, August 22, 2001 – At DakotaFest, South Dakota’s largest
   farm show, Agriculture Secretary Ann M. Veneman emphasized the
   importance of agricultural trade to farm income and reiterated the need
   for Trade Promotion Authority to ensure that American farmers can
   compete in today’s global marketplace.
   Secretary Ann M Veneman talks with young farmers at the Iowa State Fair

   At Iowa State Fair, Agriculture Secretary Veneman Emphasizes Trade
   DES MOINES, IA, August 17, 2001 – At the Iowa State Fair, Agriculture
   Secretary Ann M. Veneman visited agricultural exhibits and spoke with
   farmers, fair goers and the press about the importance of agricultural
   trade. Iowa ranked second among all 50 states in 1999 with agricultural
   exports estimated at $3.2 billion.
   Secretary Ann M Veneman and Senator Zell Miller at the Third Annual
   Symposium on the Future of American Farmers

   Secretary Veneman takes Trade Promotion Authority Campaign to Georgia
   WASHINGTON, DC, August 16, 2001 – Farmers are benefiting from steadily
   expanding foreign demand that has doubled U.S. exports over the past 15
   years to $53.5 billion for the current fiscal year. In fact, 53 percent
   of U.S. wheat will be exported, 47 percent of cotton, 42 percent of
   rice, 35 percent of soybeans, and 21 percent of corn.
   Secretary Veneman signing supplemental payments to farmers

   Supplemental Payments to Farmers Begin; Secretary Helps Issue First
   Payments
   LUBBOCK, TEXAS, August 14, 2001 – Agriculture Secretary Ann M. Veneman,
   during a tour of Farm Service Agency facilities in Lubbock, Texas.,
   announced USDA will begin making more than $5 billion in supplemental
   payments to about 1.4 million producers this week as a result of
   President Bush signing into law the agricultural economic assistance
   package yesterday.

   Dr. Joseph J. Jen, Under Secretary for Research Education and Economics
   receives a packet of information on Biodiesel powered vehicles from Dr.
   Phyllis Johnson, head of the Henry A. Wallace Agricultural Research
   Center in Beltsville, MD. Dr. Jen made opening remarks at a Biodiesel
   Outreach Seminar.
   USDA Photo No. 01di1527-23
   USDA to Expand Use of Biodiesel, Ethanol Fuels
   Dr. Joseph J. Jen, Under Secretary for Research Education and Economics
   receives a packet of information on Biodiesel powered vehicles from Dr.
   Phyllis Johnson, head of the Henry A. Wallace Agricultural Research
   Center in Beltsville, MD. Dr. Jen made opening remarks at a Biodiesel
   Outreach Seminar.
   News Release
   The Energy and Environment Program
   Bioenergy and Energy Alternatives

   Secretary Ann M. Veneman swears in Deputy Secretary Jim Moseley
   USDA Photo No. 01di1525

   Secretary Ann M. Veneman swears in Deputy Secretary Jim Moseley
   Secretary Ann M. Veneman swears in Deputy Secretary James Moseley at a
   ceremony on July 17, 2001.
   Biography

   Secretary Ann M. Veneman swears in Under Secretary for Research,
   Education and Economics Joseph Jenn
   USDA Photo No. 01di1526

   Secretary Ann M. Veneman swears in Under Secretary for Research,
   Education and Economics Joseph Jen
   Secretary Ann M. Veneman swears in Under Secretary for Research,
   Education and Economics Joseph Jen at a ceremony on July 17, 2001.
   Biography

   Deputy Jim Moseley and Under Secretary for Research, Education and
   Economics
   USDA Photo 01di1523-22
   Jim Moseley and Joseph Jen Confirmed by U.S. Senate
   Deputy Secretary James Moseley and Under Secretary for Research,
   Education, and Economics Joseph Jen, responding to questions delivered
   during their Senate Agriculture Subcommittee hearing. Moseley, an
   Indiana farmer also served as Assistant Secretary of Agriculture for
   Natural Resources and Environment under Former President George Bush.
   Jen is widely recognized as an agricultural scientist and educator.

   Under Secretary for Food Safety, Dr. Elsa Murano

   President Bush announces another nomination for a USDA leadership
   position
   Dr. Elsa Murano is nominated for Under Secretary for Food Safety by
   President Bush.
   Audio Radio Clip

   Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman meets with the Japanese Minister of
   Agriculture Tsutomo Takebe in Washington, DC.
   USDA Photo 01di1522-4

   Agriculture Secretary Ann M. Veneman meets with the Japanese Minister
   of Agriculture Tsutomo Takebe in Washington, DC.

   Secretary Ann M. Veneman speaking at the Trade Promotion Authority
   Press Conference with Members of Congress at Upper Senate Park in
   Washington, DC on June 26, 2001
   USDA Photo 01di1520-14

   Agriculture Secretary Ann M. Veneman speaks at the Trade Promotion
   Authority Press conference with Members of Congress at Upper Senate
   Park in Washington, DC on June 26, 2001.
   Statement by Secretary of Agriculture Ann M. Veneman on the
   Introduction of Trade Promotion Authority Legislation
   Remarks by Secretary of Agriculture Ann M. Veneman AgTrade Event
   More Information on Trade

   Secretary Ann M. Veneman with the National Watermelon Association
   Queens
   USDA Photo 01di1519-4

   The National Watermelon Queen and her court of state queens recently
   paid a visit to Sec. Ann Veneman during the National Watermelon
   Association's public awareness visit to Washington. The young women act
   as public relations ambassadors serving hundreds of producers,
   handlers, shippers, and other elements of the industry in over 30
   states and Canada.
   Sec. Veneman meeting firefighters
   USDA Photo 01di1518-9 Secretary Ann M. Veneman speaks at the AgTrade
   kick-off event held at the U. S. Department of Agriculture.
   Sec. Veneman meeting firefighters
   Sec. Veneman veiwing a parachute
   Sec. Veneman watching how to pack a parachute Secretary Ann M. Veneman
   meeting members of the Forest Service's Lassen Hotshots at a
   firefighter training facility near Redding, CA. Secretary Veneman took
   an aerial tour of the states's fire-torn areas in addition to visiting
   the Northern California Fire Center. She presented three National Fire
   Plan grants intended to help reduce the undergrowth and invasive
   grasses that could fuel a major fire.
     __________________________________________________________________

   Senior smokejumper and training supervisor Josh Mathiesen shows
   Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman how parachutes are maintained as
   rookie smokejumper Ben Sundal makes repairs.
     __________________________________________________________________

   Smokejumper Deborah Yoder demonstrates for Agriculture Secretary Ann
   Veneman how to properly pack a parachute. In the background are Lyle
   Laverty, National Fire Plan Coordinator; Bill Pauli, President of the
   California Farm Bureau; Josh Mathiesen, senior smokejumper and training
   supervisor; and Brad Powell, Regional Forester for the Pacific
   Southwest Region of the Forest Service.
   [01di1515-3.jpg]
   USDA Photo 01di1515-3

   Dan Glickman Portrait Unveiling Ceremony
   Agriculture Secretary Ann M. Veneman, artist John Boyd Martin applaud
   former Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman at the ceremony unveiling of
   his portrait in the U.S. Department of Agriculture Washington, DC.
   [01di1510.jpg]
   Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman (left) and Forest Service Chief Dale
   Bosworth (right).
   USDA Photo 01di1510-23

   USDA UPHOLDS ROADLESS PROTECTIONS RULE
   WASHINGTON, DC, May 4, 2001-- Agriculture Secretary Ann M. Veneman
   today announced the U.S. Department of Agriculture will implement the
   Roadless Area Conservation Rule, restricting logging and road building
   activities in 58.5 million acres of national forest lands. The
   Secretary also announced additional actions to address reasonable
   concerns raised about the rule that will ensure implementation in a
   responsible, common sense manner.
   Full Release
   Remarks by Secretary of Agriculture Ann M. Veneman on Roadless Area
   Conservation Rule
   Audio WebCast
   Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman (Left), and Mrs Edward R. Madigan
   (Right) presents the Edward R. Madigan U. S. Agricultural Export
   Excellence Award to Louis A. Prange of Trans-World Genetics, Ltd
   (center) at a ceremony held at the White House
   USDA PHOTO 01di1508-7

   Edward R. Madigan U. S. Agricultural Export Excellence Award
   Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman (Left), and Mrs Edward R. Madigan
   (Right) presents the Edward R. Madigan U. S. Agricultural Export
   Excellence Award to Louis A. Prange of Trans-World Genetics, Ltd
   (center) at a ceremony held at the White House
   Full Release
   Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman meets with the National Association
   of Farm Broadcasters at the Department of Agriculture in Washington,
   DC.
   USDA Photo No. 01di1507-18

   National Association of Farm Broadcasters
   Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman meets with the National Association
   of Farm Broadcasters at the Department of Agriculture in Washington,
   DC.

   Arbor Day Event at the Capital
   USDA Photo No. 01di1507

   Arbor Day
   Secretary of Agriculture Ann M. Veneman and Arbor Day Poster winner
   Allison Sauls. The occassion is the planting of the National Tree, the
   Oak, recently selected in a national balloting by the Arbor Day
   Foundation on the internet.


   Recorded Streaming of USDA's 2002 Budget Overview.
   WASHINGTON, DC, April 9, 2001-- USDA officials provided a briefing
   regarding USDA's 2002 budget.

   Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman speaks with second and third grade
   students from Van Ness School at the Smithsonian Natural History Museum
   in Washington, DC for National Agriculture Day.
   USDA Photo 01DI1311-006

   USDA Secretary Veneman Highlights Ag Education with Students in
   Celebrating National Agriculture Week
   Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman speaks with second and third grade
   students from Van Ness School at the Smithsonian Natural History Museum
   in Washington, DC for National Agriculture Day.
   Agriculture Secretary Ann M. Veneman Announces National Agriculture
   Week - March 18-24, 2001 (Recorded Streaming)
   National Agriculture Week Proclamation

   Ag Secretary Ann M. Veneman discusses an overview of the USDA's Budget
   Priorities before the House Committee on the Budget

   Agriculture Secretary Ann M. Veneman discusses an overview of the
   Department of Agriculture's budget priorities before the House
   Committee on the Budget.
   USDA Photo 01DI1310BN

   Agriculture Secretary Ann M. Veneman: Farmers Have a Stake in Budget
   Goals

   USDA Secretary to Travel to Nebraska to Discuss Budget Priorities And
   Agricultural Issues
   Agriculture Secretary Ann M. Veneman joins local farmers Steve and
   Brenda Martin and others in Pulaski, WI

   USDA Secretary Travels to Indiana and Wisconsin to Discuss President's
   Budget and USDA Priorities, March 5-6, 2001
   Agriculture Secretary Ann M. Veneman joins (l-r) local farmers Brenda
   and Steve Martin, Wisconsin Secretary of Agriculture Ben Brancel, and
   Congressman Mark Green during a discussion on the President’s budget
   and other agricultural issues at the Martin's farm in Pulaski, WI.


   Remarks by the President and Secretary of Agriculture Ann Veneman
   During Swearing-In Ceremony

   Prepared Remarks of Secretary of Agriculture Ann M. Veneman, Oval
   Office, March 2, 2001

   Secretary Ann M. Veneman speaking to the press on the Budget Blueprint
   Overview
   Secretary Ann M. Veneman outlines Budget Blueprint
   USDA Photo No. 01DI1308-2
   Statement of Ann M. Veneman, Before the Committee on Agriculture,
   Nutrition and Forestry, United States Senate
   USDA's FY 2002 Budget Information
     * FY 2002 Budget Blueprint for USDA Information (html)
     * FY 2002 Budget Blueprint for USDA Information (WordPerfect)
     * FY 2002 Budget Blueprint for USDA Information (Microsoft Word)
     * FY 2002 Budget Blueprint Chart Note: print in landscape

   Audio/Video Highlights
     * Recorded Video Streaming of Secretary Ann M. Veneman Press
       Conference on Budget Blueprint Overview from 12:15 p.m. Eastern
       Time (available after 4:00 p.m. EST)
     * Recorded Streaming of Agriculture Secretary Designate Ann Veneman's
       Congressional Hearing

   Secretary Veneman speaking at the Agricultural Outlook Forum

   Remarks by Secretary Ann M. Veneman Agricultural Outlook Forum February
   22, 2001 Arlington, Virginia
   WASHINGTON, Feb. 22, 2001"Thank you for the opportunity to join you
   here today. It seems only appropriate that I deliver my first public
   address in my new position at USDA's annual Outlook Conference. Over
   the years, this meeting has grown in importance not only in the U.S.,
   but also around the world.
   "It is a tremendous honor to have been chosen by President Bush to
   serve in his Cabinet. The President has put together a solid and
   experienced team and we have all pledged to work together to accomplish
   his objectives. I, too, am working hard to assemble a talented and
   dedicated team at USDA to help deliver on the priorities the President
   has outlined as they pertain to agriculture.
   USDA Photo Number DSC_0028
   Veneman and fellow cabinet-level colleagues

   Secretary Ann Veneman (center) is joined by fellow cabinet-level
   colleagues during their collective swearing-in ceremony on January 20.
   Joining her are from left to right, Secretary of State Colin Powell,
   Secretary of the Treasury Paul O'Neill, Secretary of Defense Donald
   Rumsfeld, Secretary of Commerce Donald Evans, Secretary of Energy
   Spencer Abraham, and Assistant to the President and Secretary to the
   Cabinet Albert Hawkins.
   Photo by Hyungwon Kang

   Secretary's Full Biography

   Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman speaks to USDA employees in the Patio
   of the Whitten Building    Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman speaks to
   USDA employees in the Patio of the Whitten Building
   Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman speaks to USDA employees in the Patio
   of the Whitten Building    Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman speaks to
   USDA employees in the Patio of the Whitten Building

   Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman speaks to USDA employees in the Patio
   of the Whitten Building.
   USDA Photo Numbers 01di1305-03, 01di1305-05, 01di1305-07, and
   01di1305-12.

   Recorded Streaming of Agriculture Secretary Ann Veneman Greeting USDA
   Employees.

   Sec. Ann Veneman

   Veneman, Ann

   Ann M. Veneman was confirmed by the Senate and later sworn in as the
   27th Secretary of the U.S. Department of Agriculture on January 20,
   2001. In her Senate confirmation hearing, she repeated President Bush's
   belief that, "The spirit of the American farmer is emblematic of the
   spirit of America, signifying the values of hard work, faith and
   entrepreneurship." The new Secretary has pledged to work to foster an
   atmosphere of teamwork, innovation, mutual respect and common sense
   within the Department and focus our delivery systems on quality service
   to our customers."

   [01di130431.jpg]
   [01di130432.jpg]

   Photos from the Confirmation Hearings
   Agriculture Secretary nominee Ann M. Veneman greeted prior to her
   Senate Agriculture Committe confirmation hearing by current Chairman
   Tom Harkin (D, Iowa) and incoming chairman Richard Luger (R, Indiana)
   USDA Photo 01DI130431.
   Agriculture Secretary nominee Ann M. Veneman greeted prior to her
   Senate Agriculture Committe confirmation hearing by Senator Chuck
   Grassley, (R, Iowa) and Senator Pat Roberts (R, Kansas) USDA Photo
   01DI130432.

   green dot Former Secretaries of Agriculture
     __________________________________________________________________

                     United States Department of Agriculture:
      | Home | Welcome to USDA | Newsroom | What's New |Agencies, Services &
                                    Programs |
      | USDA Offices | Subject | Search | Privacy Policy | Nondiscrimination
                                Statement | FOIA |

                    Comments, Questions to vic.powell@usda.gov
