http://recycle.msfc.nasa.gov/earth_day/earth_day.html

                            Earth Day Activities
                                   at the
                        Marshall Space Flight Center

                                [edlogo.gif]

                                [Forest.gif]

                          Earth Day 2001 (22 April)
             is being celebrated on Thursday 19 April this year.

                         Earth Day 2001 T-Shirt Logo

                               [edlogo01.gif]

                      Designed by Scott Henley of CSC.

                                [Forest.gif]

                      EARTH DAY Celebrated at Marshall

   Earth Day is a day "set aside to promote ecology, encourage respect for
   life on earth, and highlight the problem of pollution." (1) In
   celebration of this special day, NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center
   (MSFC) observes Earth Day every year. This year, our theme for Earth
   Day 2001 is "2001: An Earth Odyssey".

   NASA officially began observing Earth Day when President George Bush
   signed Executive Order 12780 in 1991 and decreed that "Federal agencies
   promote cost-effective waste reduction and recycling of reusable
   materials", and NASA is now operating under Executive Order 12873 which
   was signed by President Bill Clinton. NASA MSFC began recycling paper
   in November 1989 and added aluminum cans and cardboard in July 1991
   after Center Director T. Jack Lee signed Charter Number 3-32 "to
   establish a Centerwide focus for the development, implementation, and
   management of a recycling program". A monthly average of 25 tons of
   white paper (equivalent to about 429 trees), 932 pounds of aluminum
   cans (approximately 27,930 cans), and 2 tons of cardboard are recycled
   at MSFC per month. But that's not all. Today, MSFC continues to
   "Rethink, Reuse, Reduce, and Recycle" at least 13 different items
   including aluminum cans, lead cell batteries, cardboard, cooking oil,
   foam packing peanuts, grass clippings, laser toner cartridges, motor
   oil & oil filters, scrap metal, telephone books, tires, trees (chipped
   for mulch), and white paper. Information on MSFC's recycling efforts
   and future plans are accessible via the World Wide Web at
   http://recycle.msfc.nasa.gov/

   Earth Day events planned at NASA MSFC include the Earth Day logo
   contest that was won by Scott Henley of CSC; a recycling display in
   MSFC's Headquarters (Building 4200) from April 16 to April 20 with
   recycling information and literature; a "Spot an Environmentalist"
   contest for MSFC employees and on-site contractors; and an Earth Day
   tree planting ceremony on April 19. Ms. Kristem M. Fletcher, Director,
   Mississippi-Alabama Sea Grant Legal Program, The University of
   Mississippi, will speak at MSFC's Earth Day tree planting ceremony on
   Thursday, April 19, 2000, at 10 a.m., at the North side of the
   Structures, Dynamics, & Thermal Department's Dynamic Test Facility
   (Building 4619). The tree planting ceremony is open to MSFC personnel
   and on-site contractors. This year's Earth Day tree is an Apple
   Serviceberry (Amelanchier xgrandiflora).

   (1) The Concise Columbia Encyclopedia, Columbia University Press,
   licensed by Microsoft for their Microsoft Bookshelf 95 compact disc,
   1995. (2) "Clean Water Act", CPI Electronic Publishing,
   http://www.citation.com/hpages/cwa.html, downloaded March 16, 1998.

  Earth Day/Week Events

     * T-Shirt Logo Contest: The contest ended March 7, and the winner is
       Scott Henley of CSC, who will receive $50 and a free T-shirt. The
       contest was for MSFC employees and on-site contractors.
     * Tree Planting: Ms. Kristem M. Fletcher, Director,
       Mississippi-Alabama Sea Grant Legal Program, The University of
       Mississippi, will speak at the ceremony. This year's Earth Day tree
       is an Apple Serviceberry. 19 April 2000 at North side of the
       Structures, Dynamics, & Thermal Department's Dynamic Test Facility
       (Building 4619).
     * Spot an Environmentalist: MSFC employees and on-site contractors
       are encouraged to submit a persons name and short description that
       has been doing environmental friendly acts at Marshall (picking up
       trash on a sidewalk, car pooling, etc.) to Lucy Boger (544-0320). A
       selected group of the nominees will receive an award at the tree
       planing ceremony.
     * Information display and handouts: Information and literature
       handouts are available at the Earth Day display in the lobby of
       Building 4200. Stop by and get information ranging from recycling
       facts to environmentally friendly kitchen products.

  Earth Day/Week Schedule

     Monday - Friday (16 - 20 April)
     * Information display and handouts (lobby Building 4200)

     Thursday (19 April)
     * Tree Planting Ceremony: Location: North side of the Structures,
       Dynamics, & Thermal Department's Dynamic Test Facility (Building
       4619)
     * Awards at tree planing ceremony
          + Spot an Environmentalist
          + Logo winner
          + Recognition of Center's recycling efforts

   [Forest.gif]

                     Return to MSFC Recycling Home Page


    Curator: Paul S. Bookout
    paul.bookout@msfc.nasa.gov

                     Responsible Official: Cedreck Davis
