http://www.shuttle.nasa.gov/spacenews/releases/2002/03-02.html

   For Release: Jan. 29, 2002

   KSC Contact: Bruce Buckingham
   321/867-2468

   KSC Release No.: 03 - 02

   SHUTTLE COLUMBIA ROLLS TO THE LAUNCH PAD FOR THE HUBBLE SPACE TELESCOPE
   SERVICING MISSION

   KENNEDY SPACE CENTER, Florida - Shuttle Columbia returned to the launch
   pad yesterday after undergoing 2½ years of comprehensive maintenance,
   modification and processing operations that have made the senior member
   of the orbiter fleet safer and more versatile than ever.

   Columbia remains on schedule for the Feb. 28 launch of STS-109, the
   fourth mission to retrieve and service the Hubble Space Telescope
   (HST). The orbiter rolled out from high bay 3 of the Vehicle Assembly
   Building (VAB) 23 minutes early at 6:37 a.m. after several delays last
   week caused by a requirement to adjust the steering linkage of the
   crawler-transporter. The Shuttle was locked down on Launch Pad 39A at
   1:03 p.m., after covering the three-mile trip at a speed of .9 mph.

   Following its last mission -- the STS-93 flight that deployed the
   Chandra X-Ray Observatory in July 1999 -- Columbia underwent more than
   100 improvements during its scheduled Orbiter Maintenance and
   Modification Period. More than 215 miles of wiring were inspected and
   repaired, and a substantial weight reduction was achieved by removing
   more that 1,000 pounds of development flight instrumentation wiring
   which was no longer needed.

   Columbia is the second orbiter to be equipped with the Multifunctional
   Electronic Display Subsystem (MEDS), or "glass cockpit," which replaces
   the 32 analog gauges and four cathode ray tube monitors in the old
   cockpit with 11 state-of-the-art, full-color flat panel displays to
   reduce the pilot's workload during critical periods. The first glass
   cockpit was installed in Shuttle Atlantis in 2000.

   Five spacewalks will be conducted during the STS-109 mission to install
   an advanced new camera system on Hubble, attempt to reactivate its
   existing infrared instrumentation system, and install new solar arrays
   and a new power controller to extend the telescope's lifetime and
   capabilities.

   The seven-person crew is commanded by Scott Altman, a veteran of two
   previous Shuttle flights, with Duane Carey as pilot; John Grunsfeld as
   payload commander; and Mission Specialists Nancy Currie, James Newman,
   Richard Linnehan and Michael Massimino.

   The STS-109 crew is scheduled to arrive at KSC today to participate in
   the Terminal Countdown Demonstration Test, a dress rehearsal for
   launch, which will culminate with a simulated countdown late this week.

   -- end --
