http://www.eeel.nist.gov/lab_office/awards/cresswell.htm

   Electronics and Electrical Engineering Laboratory - About EEEL National
                    Institute of Standards and Technology

                          Photo - Michael Cresswell

                              Michael Cresswell



                                   IEEE Fellow

            (Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.)

     Michael W. Cresswell, Leader of the Linewidth and Overlay Standards for
     Nanometer Metrology Project in the Semiconductor Electronics Division
     (SED), has been elected as a Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and
     Electronics Engineers, Inc. (IEEE) by the IEEE Board of Directors.
     Cresswell was cited "for the development of linewidth calibration
     artifacts for advanced lithography metrology instruments."

     Dr. Cresswell is an accomplished researcher in the field of
     semiconductor electronics. He has been awarded over 33 U.S. patents,
     has 12 patent applications pending, and authored over 53 technical
     papers. He has been involved in the development of artificial
     intelligence techniques for evaluating the performance of semiconductor
     manufacturing tools and processes, set up and operated a "quick
     turnaround" manufacturing facility for customizing gate arrays, and
     performed research into the operating characteristics of power
     thyristors. He has had leadership roles in the IEEE International
     Conference on Microelectronic Test Structures and SEMI Standards
     Committees.

     Dr. Cresswell received the Ph.D. degree in physics from Pennsylvania
     State University, State College, in 1965 and the M.B.A. degree from the
     University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA in 1976. Prior to working at
     NIST, he spent 19 years working in bipolar power-device, flat panel
     display, and IC-process development at the Westinghouse Electric
     Corporation in Pittsburgh, PA. His current interests include the
     development of electrical test structures for characterizing the
     performance of advanced lithography tools and processes.

     Page Created March 21, 2001
