http://adoptahorse.blm.gov/stories/oct2-2001.htm

      Bureau of Land Management Wild Horse and Burro Internet Adoption
                                                       HOME | Gallery


      Elk Hunting with Mustangs
      by Doug David

      [oct2-2001-01.jpg]

      Knowing nothing about the wild horse program I stumbled on to your web
      site after a friend mentioned the program. I was originally looking for
      two pack horses for an elk hunting trip in a couple of years in the
      future. In June I bid on two from the Riverton Honor Farm and got them
      both, however I was unable to pick them up until July 5th. I had no
      idea what to expect and was starting to wonder what I had gotten myself
      into after my brother went to the live auction In Sidney, Nebraska and
      bought a wild 3 year old stud and a yearling. Then I saw what wild was
      all about.

      My fears were soon put to ease when I got them home, and I realized I
      had much more than just pack horses. I took both of them into a
      wilderness area of Colorado on a elk hunting trip in September of 2001
      after only really having 2 full months to work with them. This was not
      done without countless hours of work, but it was well worth it. I have
      had horses all of my life, and these are two of the smartest, most
      loving, and smoothest riding animals I have ever had. I can ride or
      pack with either. They are the most alert animals I have ever seen,
      they miss nothing along the trail. They will let you know if something
      is around (bears, cougars, etc.) and see things way before you will.
      When the ears stop moving and point, you had better look around - they
      have spotted something that just isn't right. The smell of blood
      doesn't seem to bother them either (they packed out 3 elk for us).

      [oct2-2001-02.jpg] They have never seemed to mind gunfire. We were
      working our way through the timber and came upon a herd of elk, they
      didn't spook from the horses so we slid off and used the horses for
      cover, worked them around so we could get a clean shot. The only shot
      my brother had was under the neck of my gelding. He actually used the
      front shoulder of the horse for a rest when he fired, the horse never
      moved. Later I was working my way toward some other elk and just
      dropped the reins over the horn and jumped off, trying get closer. My
      mare followed me through the timber and was standing within 3 feet of
      me when I shot, she never moved either.

      Having the horses on the trip just made for a better hunt, I will never
      go again without my mustangs. I had countless people laugh at me when I
      told them what I was planning on doing with these mustangs. They are
      not laughing now, they can't believe it. They are becoming very good
      around the cattle, I can rope off of either one. Mustangs have a
      different attitude toward their owners, they seem to bond with you
      unlike a domestic horse. If they trust you they will do anything to for
      you. I have no plans of ever buying anything other than a mustang
      again, pedigree and looks mean nothing to me, performance is worth much
      more than paper. I have since adopted a yearling and a burro. I think
      the Wyoming Honor Farm training facility is a great program. I could
      not have done this without all of the work the inmates put into them,
      they deserve a great deal of credit. I know first hand just how wild
      some of these horses are and what it takes to gentle one. I think
      anyone who is willing to spend the time can make one of these horses
      into anything they want.


   [oct2-2001-03.jpg] [oct2-2001-04.jpg]
   [oct2-2001-05.jpg] [oct2-2001-06.jpg]

   [USEMAP:footer.gif]
