http://greengenes.llnl.gov/bbrp/html/management.html

   [bbrp.new.logo.gif]

Program Organization And Funding Sources

   [blue_green_line.gif]

Program Management

   Our former Program Director, Dr. Anthony Carrano, retired from Lawrence
   Livermore National Laboratory in June of 2000. The Deputy Associate
   Director, Dr. Bert Weinstein, has stepped in as Acting Program Director
   while a search committee is actively working to find a new Director.
   The overall management and organization structure of the Biology and
   Biotechnology Research Program is shown in Figure 1. We continue to
   keep this structure flat to minimize cost and maximize operational
   efficiency. We support the philosophy that our scientific managers are
   expected to maintain a high level of technical competence and be
   actively involved in research for some fraction of their time. To this
   end, Dr. Weinstein plays a lead role in the microbial counter
   biological proliferation project, and our Division Leaders have
   scientific projects in which they are intimately involved. While the
   Divisions each have a primary scientific focus, they function primarily
   as administrative units, as individual scientists work on projects that
   cross division and center boundaries, thus maximizing interactions and
   insuring cross-fertilization. Alan Casamajor is Assistant to the
   Associate Director for Facilities and Safety. The Assistants to
   Associate Director for Resource Management, Rita Brown and Sheryl
   Goodman (who job share their role), are responsible for our business
   operations and finances. They also provide resource management for the
   Joint Genome Institute. Peggy Biggs is the Program Administrator and
   manages the administrative functions of the Program.


                              [management1.gif]

   Figure 1. BBRP Organizational Chart, December, 2000

Program Reviews and Advisory Committee

   A variety of methods are used to assess the quality of our science and
   technology. At the project level, each federally funded effort is
   subject to a peer review process specific to its sponsor. For NIH and
   DOE, peer review is required for initial funding and for renewal. Every
   project is externally reviewed at least once every three years. At the
   program level, we undergo a bi-annual internal review by the LLNL
   Director, several of the Associate Directors, other LLNL staff, and
   laboratory consultants. This review focuses on strategic planning,
   future scientific directions, intra-laboratory interactions, and
   workforce issues. Our BBRP Advisory Committee meets yearly to review
   the entire program on a three-year cycle. The 2000 membership on the
   Advisory Committee is shown in Table 1.


   Table 1.
   Program Review Committee

       Biology and Biotechnology Research Program Advisory Committee

   Robert Sinsheimer, Chair University of California, Santa Barbara

       William Baird Oregon State University
       Charles R. Cantor Sequenom, Inc.
       Gilbert Chu Stanford University Medical School
       Neil Clarke Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine
       Fred Fox University of California, Los Angeles
       Fred F. Kadlubar National Center for Toxicological Research
       Michael Levitt Stanford University
       Frank McCormick University of California, San Francisco
       Mark McNamee University of California, Davis
       Frederick A. Murphy University of California, Davis
       Norman Pace University of California, Berkeley

   Robert Perry University of Kentucky

   Justin Roberts University of California, Riverside
       Roger H. Reeves Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine
       Leslie Sandberg University of California, Davis Health Systems
       David A. Smith Boonsboro, MD
       John A. Tainer Scripps Research Institute
       Snorri Thorgeirsson National Cancer Institute
       Richard Wilson Washington University School of Medicine

   Dr. Sinsheimer indicated 2000 would be his last year as chair of the
   advisory board, and Dr. Charles Cantor has agreed to become chair
   starting with in 2001.

   Lastly, the University of California, our contractor, conducts annual
   program reviews. The Science and Technology Council composed primarily
   of university faculty and appointed by the University President reviews
   the quality of science conducted at UC's three national laboratories.
   This Council meets with laboratory staff at least annually and receives
   written input from the Program Advisory Committee.

Budget Information

   We draw upon several funding sources for our Program. While the
   Department of Energy remains our primary sponsor, in the past several
   years we have attracted a diverse assortment of funding sources. The
   figure below shows the percentage by major funding source. Funding
   amounts for each category are detailed in Table 2.

   Table 2.
   Current funding sources

                                   Sponsor

                                     K$

                                  Funding %

   Dept. of Energy, Office of Science/Office of Biological & Environmental
   Research

                                                                    25,614

                                                                     53.6%

   National Institutes of Health

                                                                     7,677

                                                                      16.1

   (five institutes)

   Dept. of Energy, Office of Non-Proliferation and National Security

                                                                     6,236

                                                                      13.1

   Dept. of Energy/Los Alamos National Laboratory

                                                                       893

                                                                       1.9

   LLNL Laboratory Directed Research

                                                                     3,781

   *

                                                                       7.9

   and Development

   LLNL General and Administrative

                                                                       386

   *

                                                                       0.8

   Army

                                                                       756

                                                                       1.6

   Federal, Other

                                                                       107

                                                                       0.2

   University of California, Tobacco

                                                                     1,182

                                                                       2.4

   Related Disease Research Program

   University of California, Berkeley

                                                                       278

                                                                       0.6

   University of California, Breast Cancer

                                                                       138

                                                                       0.3

   Research Program

   University of California, Davis

                                                                        35

                                                                       0.1

   University of Wisconsin/Texas

                                                                        57

                                                                       0.1

   Campus Lab Collaboration

                                                                        96

                                                                       0.2

   Other Non-Profit

                                                                       353

                                                                       0.7

   Industry

                                                                       184

                                                                       0.4

   Total

                                                                   $47,773

                                                                    100.0%

   * Due to different rate structures, funding has been normalized for
   comparability.

Compliance with Federal Regulations

   Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory has a long standing tradition of
   concern for the welfare of animals used in research, in the protection
   and confidentiality of human subjects, and in the careful use of
   biohazardous materials. Permanent institutional committees exist in
   each area. The Laboratory Director appoints the chair of each
   committee.

   Since 1973, the Animal Care Facility has been in full compliance with
   the Animal Welfare Act, the U.S. Public Health Service, the National
   Institutes of Health, the Office of Protection from Research Risks, and
   the University of California regulations governing the use of animals.
   In 1976 we established an active Institutional Animal Care and Use
   Committee, currently chaired by James D. Tucker, whose membership has
   representatives from our scientific staff and the local community. We
   are fully accredited by the Association for the Assessment and
   Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International.

   The Committee on Humans Subjects Research (officially known as the LLNL
   Institutional Review Board) was formed in 1974 to serve all
   directorates and programs at LLNL. Since its inception, the conduct of
   the committee has been in full compliance with DOE, DHHS and University
   regulations. LLNL has maintained a Multiple Project Assurance (MPA)
   with the Department of Health and Human Services since 1983. The
   current MPA, which dictates the institutional compliance requirements
   for LLNL, was renewed in August of 1998 and is effective until August
   31, 2003. The IRB is composed of scientific and non-scientific, as well
   as institutional and non-institutional members, and is chaired by
   Andrew J. Wyrobek. The IRB operates under provisions of the Code of
   Federal Regulations, 10 CFR Part 745, revised June 1991.

   The Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC) was established at Lawrence
   Livermore National Laboratory in 1991 to ensure compliance with
   regulations concerning research with either recombinant DNA or human,
   animal, and plant pathogens. These include the NIH Guidelines for
   Research Involving Recombinant DNA Molecules, October 2000, and the
   CDC-NIH, Biosafety in Microbiological and Biomedical Laboratories, 1999
   (revision 4). In 1998, the IBC registered LLNL under the Laboratory
   Registration and Select Agent Transfer Program of CDC. The committee
   must approve all research in the cited subject areas prior to
   commencement. The committee is registered with the NIH Office of
   Recombinant DNA Activities, and consists of scientists, physicians,
   lawyers, and community members, and is chaired by Mortimer L.
   Mendelsohn.


                            [blue_green_line.gif]

           BBRP home page|LLNL home page|Biology at LLNL|Comments
                       UCRL-MI-117984,LLNL Disclaimer
                                 May 8, 2001

                            [blue_green_line.gif]
