http://www.usfa.fema.gov/about/press/01-252.htm

   USFA SEAL Blank Image Press Releases Banner Image


                                                  ABOUT USFA
                           USFA Programs Navigation Menu Link
                                 History Navigation Menu Link
                          Press Releases Navigation Menu Link
                                   FAQ's Navigation Menu Link
                Employment Opportunities Navigation Menu Link

Release No.: 01-252
Release Date: December 11, 2001

U.S. FIRE ADMINISTRATION ANNOUNCES IT WILL CONDUCT FIRE SERVICE NEEDS
ASSESSMENT SURVEY

   WASHINGTON -- The U.S. Fire Administration (USFA) today announced that
   it is conducting the first ever U.S. Fire Service Needs Assessment
   Survey. The USFA expects to begin mailing the needs assessment
   questionnaire to every fire department across the country beginning the
   week of December 10th. USFA is a part of the Federal Emergency
   Management Agency (FEMA).

   "The fire services play a critical role in protecting our communities,"
   said R. David Paulison, U.S. Fire Administrator. "Firefighters -- both
   career and volunteer -- increasingly serve as first responders
   nationwide to all types of hazardous and emergency situations, from
   fire to acute medical emergencies to hazardous material releases, and
   terrorist attacks such as the tragic events of September 11."

   "By completing this short survey and returning it in the postage-paid
   envelope as soon as possible, fire departments will assist USFA to
   determine the resource needs of America's fire service."

   Earlier in the year USFA began a census of fire departments to provide
   for the first time an accurate location and points of contact for every
   fire department in the country. This survey is seperate from that
   census, as it will provide additional information on resources and
   capabilities of fire departments acoss the nation in a report to
   Congress. Survey results will not impact the application and review
   process for the 2002 grant program.

   The USFA was directed as part of the FIRE Act, which created the
   Assistance to Fire Fighters Grant Program, to conduct a needs
   assessment survey and is doing so with the assistance of the National
   Fire Protection Association (NFPA).

   The survey is designed to provide an accurate picture of fire
   departments resource capabilities nationwide by community size.
   Departments are encouraged to be looking for the form and filling it
   out late this year and early next year. It is estimated that the form
   on average should take about 20 minutes to fill out.

   A summary report of the survey findings prepared for Congress will be
   available on the USFA website in the latter half of 2002. NFPA and the
   USFA will release only aggregated data from the survey; fire
   departments individual responses will be kept confidential.

         [ search | help | links | feedback | e-mail lists | home ]


    Last Updated: December 12, 2001

   FOOTER: UNITED STATES FIRE ADMINISTRATION
