http://egov.gov/omb_appendix.htm

   GSA Logo   Skip past Home GSA

                                       egov logo Picture of the American flag


   Home

       Privacy & Security

                         FAQs

                             About Us

                                     Staff

                                          Search

                                                Site Map

   Related Links

   Program Partners


                      Appendix II to OMB Circular No. A-130
           Implementation of the Government Paperwork Elimination Act

     AGENCY:
     Office of Management and Budget, Executive Office of the President

     ACTION:
     Procedures and guidance.

   SUMMARY:
   The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) provides procedures and
   guidance to implement the Government Paperwork Elimination Act (GPEA).
   GPEA requires Federal agencies, by October 21, 2003, to allow
   individuals or entities that deal with the agencies the option to
   submit information or transact with the agency electronically, when
   practicable, and to maintain records electronically, when practicable.
   The Act specifically states that electronic records and their related
   electronic signatures are not to be denied legal effect, validity, or
   enforceability merely because they are in electronic form, and
   encourages Federal government use of a range of electronic signature
   alternatives.

   Electronic Availability
   : This document is available on the Internet in the OMB library of the
   "Welcome to the White House" home page, http://www.whitehouse.gov/OMB/,
   the Federal CIO Council's home page, http://cio.gov/, and the Federal
   Public Key Infrastructure Steering Committee home page,
   http://gits-sec.treas.gov/.

   FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT:
   Jonathan Womer, Information Policy and Technology Branch, Office of
   Information and Regulatory Affairs, (202) 395-3785. Press inquiries
   should be addressed to the OMB Communications Office, (202) 395-7254.
   Inquiries may also be addressed to: Information Policy and Technology
   Branch, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of
   Management and Budget, Room 10236 New Executive Office Building,
   Washington, D.C. 20503.

   SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:

   Background

   This document provides Executive agencies the guidance required under
   Sections 1703 and 1705 of the Government Paperwork Elimination Act
   (GPEA), P. L. 105-277, Title XVII, which was signed into law on October
   21, 1998. GPEA is an important tool to improve customer service and
   governmental efficiency through the use of information technology. This
   improvement involves transacting business electronically with Federal
   agencies and widespread use of the Internet and its World Wide Web.

   As public awareness of electronic communications and Internet usage
   increases, demand for on-line interactions with the Federal agencies
   also increases. Moving to electronic transactions and electronic
   signatures can reduce transaction costs for the agency and its partner.
   Transactions are quicker and information access can be more easily
   tailored to the specific questions that need to be answered. As a
   result data analysis is easier. These access and data analysis benefits
   often have a positive spillover effect into the rest of the agency as
   awareness of the agency's operations is improved. In addition,
   reengineering the work process associated with the transaction around
   the new electronic format can give rise to other efficiencies.

   Public confidence in the security of the government's electronic
   information processes is essential as agencies make this transition.
   Electronic commerce, electronic mail, and electronic benefits transfer
   can require the exchange of sensitive information within government,
   between the government and private industry or individuals, and among
   governments. These electronic systems must protect the information's
   confidentiality, ensure that the information is not altered in an
   unauthorized way, and make it available when needed. A corresponding
   policy and management structure must support the hardware and software
   that delivers these services.

   To provide for a broad framework for ensuring the implementation of
   electronic systems in a secure manner, the Administration has taken a
   number of actions. In February 1996, OMB revised Appendix III of
   Circular A-130, which provided guidance to agencies on securing
   information as they increasingly rely on open and interconnected
   electronic networks to conduct business. In May 1998, the President
   issued Presidential Decision Directive 63, which set a goal of a
   reliable, interconnected, and secure information system infrastructure
   by the year 2003, and significantly increased security for government
   systems by the year 2000 based on reviews by each department and
   agency. In September, 1998, OMB and the Federal Public Key
   Infrastructure Steering Committee published AAccess With Trust@
   (available at http://gits-sec.treas.gov/). This report describes the
   Federal government=s goals and eefforts to develop a Public Key
   Infrastructure (PKI) to enable the widespread use of
   cryptographically-based digital signatures. On December 17, 1999, the
   President issued a Memorandum, AElectronic Government,@ which called on
   Federal agencies to use information technology to ensure that
   governmental services and information are easily accessible to the
   American people (Weekly Compilation of Presidential Documents, vol. 35,
   pp. 2641-43, (December 27, 1999); also available at http://cio.gov/).
   Among other things, the President charged the Administrator of General
   Services, in coordination with agencies, to assist agencies in the
   development of private, secure and effective electronic communication
   across agencies and with the public through the use of public key
   technology. This technology can offer significant benefits in
   facilitating electronic commerce through a shared, interoperable,
   government-wide infrastructure.

   What is the purpose of GPEA?

   GPEA seeks to Apreclude agencies or courts from systematically treating
   electronic documents and signatures less favorably than their paper
   counterparts@, so that citizens can interact with the Federal
   government electronically (S. Rep. 105-335). It requires Federal
   agencies, by October 21, 2003, to provide individuals or entities that
   deal with agencies the option to submit information or transact with
   the agency electronically, and to maintain records electronically, when
   practicable. It also addresses the matter of private employers being
   able to use electronic means to store, and file with Federal agencies,
   information pertaining to their employees. GPEA states that electronic
   records and their related electronic signatures are not to be denied
   legal effect, validity, or enforceability merely because they are in
   electronic form. It also encourages Federal government use of a range
   of electronic signature alternatives.

   This guidance implements GPEA, fosters a successful transition to
   electronic government as contemplated by the President=s memorandum,
   and employs where appropriate the work described in AAccess with
   Trust.@

   What were the comments on the proposed implementation?

   On March 5, 1999, OMB published the AProposed Implementation of the
   Government Paperwork Elimination Act@ for public comment. (64 FR
   10896). It was also sent directly to Federal agencies for comment and
   made available via the Internet. In addition, OMB met with relevant
   committees and staff of many interested organizations including:
   American Bar Association (both the Business Law and the Science and
   Technology Sections); American Bankers Association; National Automated
   Clearing House Association; National Governors Association; National
   Association of State Information Resource Executives; National
   Association of State Auditors, Controllers and Treasurers; National
   Association of State Purchasing Officers; the Government of Canada; the
   Government of Australia; and relevant industry forums. All were
   uniformly positive about the content and tone of the guidance. OMB
   received specific comments from 24 organizations. Most comments
   proposed changes in clarity and detail. Where the comments added
   clarity and did not contradict the goals of the guidance, they were
   incorporated. The principal substantive issues raised in the comments
   and our responses to them are described below.

   I. Comments regarding risks and benefits

   A number of comments, including those from the Justice Department and
   the General Accounting Office, requested that the guidance contain
   further information on how to conduct the assessments of practicability
   needed to determine the proper combination of technology and management
   controls to manage the risk of converting transactions and record
   keeping to electronic form, and then conducting transactions
   electronically. Each assessment should contain elements of risk
   analysis and measurements of other costs and benefits. Most comments on
   assessment referred to the risk analysis portion.

   Risk analyses provide decisionmakers with information needed to
   understand the factors that can degrade or endanger operations and
   outcomes and to make informed judgments about what actions need to be
   taken to reduce risk. Consistent with the Computer Security Act (40
   U.S.C. 759 note), Appendix III of OMB Circular No. A-130, "Security of
   Federal Automated Information Resources," (34 FR 6428, February 20,
   1996), Federal managers should design and implement their information
   technology systems in a manner that is commensurate with the risk and
   magnitude of harm from unauthorized use, disclosure, or modification of
   the information in those systems. To determine what constitutes
   adequate security, a risk-based assessment must consider all major risk
   factors, such as the value of the system or application, threats,
   vulnerabilities, and the effectiveness of current and proposed
   safeguards. Low-risk information processes may need only minimal
   consideration, while high-risk processes may need extensive analysis.
   OMB reiterated these principles on June 23, 1999, in OMB Memorandum No.
   99-20, "Security of Federal Automated Information Resources," and
   reminded agencies to continually assess the risk to their computer
   systems and maintain adequate security commensurate with that risk,
   particularly as they take increasing advantage of the internet and the
   world wide web in providing information and services to citizens.
   (Available at: http://cio.gov/ and
   http://whitehouse.gov/omb/memoranda/m-99-20.html).

   The Commerce Department's National Institute of Standards and
   Technology (NIST) also recognizes the importance of conducting risk
   analyses for securing computer-based resources. NIST provides guidance
   on risk analysis in (available at http://csrc.nist.gov/nistpubs):

    1. Good Security Practices for Electronic Commerce, Including
       Electronic Data Interchange,@ Special Publication 800-9 (December
       1993);
    2. An Introduction to Computer Security: The NIST Handbook,@ Special
       Publication 800-12 (December 1995);
    3. Generally Accepted Principles and Practices for Securing
       Information Technology Systems,@ Special Publication 800-14
       (September 1996); and
    4. Guide for Developing Security Plans for Information Technology
       Systems,@ Special Publication 800-18 (December 1998).

   More recently, the General Accounting Office published AInformation
   Security Risk Assessment: Practices of Leading Organizations,@
   GAO/AIMD-00-33 (November 1999) (Available at http://www.gao.gov/). This
   document is intended to help Federal managers implement an ongoing
   information security risk analysis process by suggesting practical
   procedures that have been successfully adopted by organizations known
   for their good risk analysis practices. This document describes various
   models and methods for analyzing risk, and identifies factors that are
   important in a risk analysis.

   A quantitative risk analysis generally attempts to estimate the
   monetary cost of risk compared with that of risk reduction techniques
   based on (1) the likelihood that a damaging event will occur, (2) the
   costs of potential losses, and (3) the costs of mitigating actions that
   could be taken. Availability of data affects the extent to which risk
   analysis results may be quantified reliably. The GAO report recognizes,
   however, that reliable data on likelihood and risks often may not be
   available, in which case a qualitative approach can be taken by
   defining risk in more subjective and general terms such as high,
   medium, and low. In this regard, qualitative analyses depend more on
   the expertise, experience, and good judgment of the Federal managers
   conducting the analysis. It also may be possible to use a combination
   of quantitative and qualitative methods.

   Other commenters wanted more guidance on how to weigh the risk analysis
   with other costs and benefits. In combination with the risk analysis,
   the results of a cost-benefit analysis should be used to judge the
   practicability of such a process transformation. All major information
   technology investments are evaluated under the Appendices of OMB
   Circular No. A-130, "Management of Federal Information Resources" and
   Part 3 of OMB Circular No. A-11 "Planning, Budgeting, and Acquisition
   of Capital Assets." Specific guidance on information technology
   cost-benefit analysis is available from the Capital Planning and IT
   Investment Committee of the Federal CIO Council in the recently
   published AROI and the Value Puzzle.@ (Available at: http://cio.gov/).
   When developing collections of information under the Paperwork
   Reduction Act, agencies currently address the practicality of
   electronic submission, maintenance, and disclosure. The GPEA guidance
   builds on the requirements and scope of the PRA; all transactions that
   involve Federal information collections covered under the PRA are also
   covered under GPEA. In addition, agencies should follow OMB Memorandum
   00-07 AIncorporating and Funding Security in Information Systems
   Investments@, issued February 28, 2000, which provides information on
   building security into information technology investments (also
   available at: http://cio.gov/).

   The Department of Justice commented on the need for each agency to
   consider the broad range of legal risks involved in electronic
   transactions. Justice=s comments are especially appropriate for
   particularly sensitive transactions, including those likely to give
   rise to civil or criminal enforcement proceedings and we expect them to
   be further developed in Juctice=s forthcoming practical guidance. The
   risk analysis process required by the Computer Security Act and by good
   practice must be tailored to the risks and related mitigation costs
   that pertain to each system, as understood by the Federal managers most
   knowledgeable with the systems. When evaluating legal risks, Federal
   managers should consult with their legal counsel about any specific
   legal implications due to the use of electronic transactions or
   documents in the application in question. Agencies should also keep in
   mind that GPEA specifically states that electronic records and their
   related electronic signatures are not to be denied legal effect,
   validity, or enforceability merely because they are in electronic form.
   We are not, therefore, prescribing specific Aone size fits all@
   requirements applicable to transactions regardless of sensitivity.

   In light of all the above comments, we have added greater detail to the
   practicability aspects of the guidance, and an expanded discussion of
   cost-benefit analysis and its relation to risk analysis. We have also
   placed additional emphasis on the need for risk analyses to identify
   and address the full range of risks, including reasonably expected
   legal and enforcement risks, and technological risks. Further, we
   included a reporting mechanism in Part I Section 3 to facilitate the
   assessment of practicability. Although many of the comments concern the
   costs and risks of changing to electronic transactions, it is also
   important to consider the full range of benefits that electronic
   transactions can provide. Possible benefits include: increased partner
   participation and customer satisfaction; reduced transaction costs and
   increased transaction speed; improved record keeping and new
   opportunities for analysis of information; and greater employee
   productivity and enhanced quality of their output. An agency =s
   consideration of risks needs to be balanced with a full consideration
   of benefits.

   II. Comments regarding technology neutrality

   A number of comments concerned the emphasis on technology neutrality
   with regard to the various electronic signature alternatives. They
   suggested we endorse one electronic signature technology in order to
   promote interoperability and ease of use. Other commenters disagreed.
   They expressed concern that promoting one technology requires
   predicting the direction and future of information technology standards
   and practices, which is a notoriously difficult task. Further, there
   are sometimes technologies that naturally fit particular electronic
   transactions and are easier to implement from a security, privacy,
   technical, or operational perspective than others. For example,
   implementing a technology that is easy to use would naturally fit when
   encouraging citizens to participate in electronic transactions.

   We do not believe it would be appropriate to endorse one technology,
   and we share the concerns of those commenters who argued against such
   an endorsement. At the same time, we recognize that
   cryptographically-based digital signatures (i.e., public key
   technology) hold great promise for ensuring both authentication and
   privacy in networked interactions, and may be the only technology
   available that can foster interoperability across numerous
   applications. There are, however, applications where personal
   identification numbers (PINs) and other shared secret techniques may
   well be appropriate. These are generally relatively low risk
   applications where interoperability is of lesser importance. A number
   of agencies have successfully used PINs in groundbreaking applications,
   particularly the Securities and Exchange Commission for regulatory
   filings and the Internal Revenue Service for tax filings. They have
   recognized the benefits of using PINs, but at the same time they are
   planning for an eventual transfer to digital signatures.

   Accordingly, the final guidance maintains the basic policy of
   technology neutrality for automated transactions while recognizing that
   agencies should select an alternative relative to the risk of the
   application, and calls on agencies to consider all of the available
   electronic signature technologies (including the advantages of public
   key technology) as part of their assessments.

   III. Comments regarding records management

   Several comments suggested that the guidance should give further
   emphasis to the role of the National Archives and Records
   Administration in working with the agencies to address the maintenance,
   preservation, and disposal of Federal records that are associated with
   electronic government transactions. We agree. The final guidance
   explicitly addresses NARA=s role in the area of electronic records
   management, particularly as it relates to the use of electronic
   signature technologies.

   IV. Comments regarding privacy protection

   Some commenters were concerned with the privacy implications of the
   guidance. They want to ensure that any move to electronic transactions
   does not encourage the gathering of unnecessary information, and that
   Federal agencies adequately protect the personal information that does
   need to be collected. We agree that agencies must incorporate privacy
   protections when developing electronic processes. Several helpful
   suggestions were made that have been incorporated into the final
   guidance. With respect to a commenters= concern that agencies not
   collect unnecessary information, the Privacy Act requires an agency to
   Amaintain in its records only such information about an individual as
   is relevant and necessary to accomplish a purpose of the agency.@ 5
   U.S.C. 552a(e)(1); see e.g. Reuber v. United States, 829 F. 2d 133,
   138-40 (D.C.C. 1987). Furthermore, the collection by agencies of
   unnecessary information would be contrary to the Paperwork Reduction
   Act=s mandate that agencies collect only information that is Anecessary
   for the proper performance of the functions of the agency@ and Ahas
   practical utility.@ 44 U.S.C. 3508.

   V. State, local and non-governmental concerns

   A number of comments were received from non-Federal entities. These
   comments were primarily concerned with the broader implications of the
   Act itself rather than the draft guidance. Specifically, some
   governmental entities expressed concern that Federal adoption of
   routine electronic transactions would require state and local
   governments to provide equivalent access for citizens. Some commenters
   were also concerned that they would be required to make all future
   transactions with the Federal government in an electronic format.
   Consultations with the state government groups identified above, during
   and subsequent to the comment period, seem to have alleviated these
   concerns significantly, particularly as we explained that GPEA
   contemplates optional rather than mandatory electronic transactions
   with the Federal government. Agencies are required to provide the
   option to their transaction partners. Transaction partners are not
   required to use the electronic option.

   What Are the Future Plans for this Guidance?

   We intend to place this guidance into an appendix of OMB Circular A-130
   as it is updated. OMB=s final procedures and guidance on implementing
   the Government Paperwork Elimination Act are set forth below.

   John T. Spotila
   AdministratorOffice of Information and Regulatory Affairs
     __________________________________________________________________

                               April 25, 2000

   M-00-10

   MEMORANDUM FOR THE HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES

   FROM:    Jacob J. Lew
            Director

   SUBJECT: OMB Procedures and Guidance on Implementing the Government
            Paperwork Elimination Act

   This document provides Executive agencies with the guidance required
   under Sections 1703 and 1705 the Government Paperwork Elimination Act
   (GPEA), P. L. 105-277, Title XVII. GPEA requires agencies, by October
   21, 2003, to provide for the (1) option of electronic maintenance,
   submission, or disclosure of information, when practicable as a
   substitute for paper; and (2) use and acceptance of electronic
   signatures, when practicable. GPEA specifically states that electronic
   records and their related electronic signatures are not to be denied
   legal effect, validity, or enforceability merely because they are in
   electronic form.

   GPEA is an important tool in fulfilling the vision of improved customer
   service and governmental efficiency through the use of information
   technology. This vision contemplates widespread use of the Internet and
   its World Wide Web, with Federal agencies transacting business
   electronically as commercial enterprises are doing. Members of the
   public who wish to do business this way may avoid traveling to
   government offices, waiting in line, or mailing paper forms. The
   Federal government can also save time and money transacting business
   electronically.

   This guidance also implements part of the President=s memorandum of
   December 17, 1999, AElectronic Government,@ which calls on Federal
   agencies to use information technology in ensuring that governmental
   services and information are easily accessible to the American people.
   Among other things, the President charged the Administrator of General
   Services, in coordination with appropriate agencies and organizations,
   to assist agencies in developing private, secure, and effective
   communication across agencies and with the public through the use of
   digital signature technology.

   Creating more accessible and efficient government requires public
   confidence in the security of the government's electronic information
   communication and information technology systems. Electronic commerce,
   electronic mail, and electronic benefits transfer can involve the
   exchange of sensitive information within government, between government
   and private industry or individuals, and among governments. Electronic
   systems must be able to protect the confidentially of citizens=
   information, authenticate the identity of the transacting parties to
   the degree required by the transaction, guarantee that the information
   is not altered in an unauthorized way, and provide access when needed.

   To reach these goals, agencies must meet objectives outlined by GPEA
   guidance. First, each agency must build on their existing efforts to
   implement electronic government by developing a plan and schedule that
   implement, by the end of Fiscal Year 2003, optional electronic
   maintenance, submission, or transactions of information, when
   practicable as a substitute for paper, including through the use of
   electronic signatures when practicable. Agencies must submit a copy of
   the plan to OMB by October 2000 and coordinate the plan and schedule
   with their strategic IT planning activities that support program
   responsibilities consistent with the budget process (as required by OMB
   Circular A-11).

   Attachment
     __________________________________________________________________

   Implementation of the Government Paper Work Elimination Act contains:

   PART I. What policies and procedures should agencies follow?
   Section 1. What GPEA policies should agencies follow?
       Section 2. What GPEA procedures should agencies follow?
       Section 3. How should agencies implement these policies and
       procedures?

   Part II. How can agencies improve service delivery and reduce burden
   through the use of electronic signatures and electronic transactions?
   Section 1. Introduction and background.
       Section 2. What is an "electronic signature?"
       Section 3. How should agencies assess the risks, costs, and
       benefits?
       Section 4. What benefits should agencies consider in planning and
       implementing electronic signatures and electronic transactions?
       Section 5. What risk factors should agencies consider in planning
       and implementing electronic signatures or electronic transactions?
       Section 6. What privacy and disclosure issues affect electronic
       signatures and electronic transactions?
       Section 7. What are current electronic signature technologies?
       Section 8. How should agencies implement electronic signatures and
       electronic transactions?
       Section 9. Summary of the procedures and checklist.

   PART I. What policies and procedures should agencies follow?

   Section 1. What GPEA policies should agencies follow?

   The Government Paperwork Elimination Act (GPEA) requires Federal
   agencies, by October 21, 2003, to provide individuals or entities the
   option to submit information or transact with the agency electronically
   and to maintain records electronically when practicable. GPEA
   specifically states that electronic records and their related
   electronic signatures are not to be denied legal effect, validity, or
   enforceability merely because they are in electronic form. It also
   encourages Federal government use of a range of electronic signature
   alternatives.

   Sections 1703 and 1705 of GPEA charge the Office of Management and
   Budget (OMB) with developing procedures for Executive agencies to
   follow in using and accepting electronic documents and signatures,
   including records required to be maintained under Federal programs and
   information that employers are required to store and file with Federal
   agencies about their employees. These procedures reflect and are to be
   executed with due consideration of the following policies:
    a. maintaining compatibility with standards and technology for
       electronic signatures generally used in commerce and industry and
       by State governments;
    b. not inappropriately favoring one industry or technology;
    c. ensuring that electronic signatures are as reliable as appropriate
       for the purpose in question;
    d. maximizing the benefits and minimizing the risks and other costs;
    e. protecting the privacy of transaction partners and third parties
       that have information contained in the transaction;
    f. ensuring that agencies comply with their recordkeeping
       responsibilities under the FRA for these electronic records.
       Electronic record keeping systems reliably preserve the information
       submitted, as required by the Federal Records Act and implementing
       regulations; and
    g. providing, wherever appropriate, for the electronic acknowledgment
       of electronic filings that are successfully submitted.

   Section 2. What GPEA procedures should agencies follow?
    a. GPEA recognizes that building and deploying electronic systems to
       complement and replace paper-based systems should be consistent
       with the need to ensure that investments in information technology
       are economically prudent to accomplish the agency's mission,
       protect privacy, and ensure the security of the data. Moreover, a
       decision to reject the option of electronic filing or record
       keeping should demonstrate, in the context of a particular
       application and upon considering relative costs, risks, and
       benefits given the level of sensitivity of the process, that there
       is no reasonably cost-effective combination of technologies and
       management controls that can be used to operate the transaction and
       sufficiently minimize the risk of significant harm. Accordingly,
       agencies should develop and implement plans, supported by an
       assessment of whether to use and accept documents in electronic
       form and to engage in electronic transactions. The assessment
       should weigh costs and benefits and involve an appropriate risk
       analysis, recognizing that low-risk information processes may need
       only minimal consideration, while high-risk processes may need
       extensive analysis.
    b. Performing the assessment to evaluate electronic signature
       alternatives should not be viewed as an isolated activity or an end
       in itself. Agencies should draw from and feed into the interrelated
       requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act, the Privacy Act, the
       Computer Security Act, the Government Performance and Results Act,
       the Clinger-Cohen Act, the Federal Managers= Financial Integrity
       Act, the Federal Records Act, and the Chief Financial Officers Act,
       as well as OMB Circular A-130 and Presidential Decision Directive
       63.
    c. The assessment should develop strategies to mitigate risks and
       maximize benefits in the context of available technologies, and the
       relative total costs and effects of implementing those technologies
       on the program being analyzed. The assessment also should be used
       to develop baselines and verifiable performance measures that track
       the agency's mission, strategic plans, and tactical goals, as
       required by the Clinger-Cohen Act.
    d. In addition to serving as a guide for selecting the most
       appropriate technologies, the assessment of costs and benefits
       should be designed so that it can be used to generate a business
       case and verifiable return on investment to support agency
       decisions regarding overall programmatic direction, investment
       decisions, and budgetary priorities. In doing so, agencies should
       consider the effects on the public, its needs, and its readiness to
       move to an electronic environment.

   Section 3. How should agencies implement these policies and procedures?
    a. To ensure a smooth and cost-effective transition to an electronic
       government that provides improved service to the public, each
       agency must:

   (1) Develop a plan (including a schedule) by October, 2000 that
       provides for continued implementation, by the end of Fiscal Year
       2003, of optional electronic maintenance, submission, or
       transaction of information when practicable as a substitute for
       paper, including through the use of electronic signatures when
       practicable. The plan must address, among other things (and where
       applicable), the optional use by employers of electronic means to
       store and file with Federal agencies information about their
       employees. The plan should prioritize agency implementation of
       systems or modules of systems based on achievability and net
       benefit. The plan must be an addition to the agency=s strategic IT
       planning activities supporting program responsibilities, as
       required by OMB Circular A-11. A copy of the plan should be
       provided to OMB.
       (2) For each agency information system identified in the plan
       required in #1 above, consider relative costs, risks, and benefits
       given the level of sensitivity of the process(es) that the system
       supports. Agency considerations of cost, risk, and benefit, as well
       as any measures taken to minimize risks, should be commensurate
       with the level of sensitivity of the transaction. Low-risk
       information processes may need only minimal consideration, while
       high-risk processes may need extensive analysis.
       (3) Based on the considerations in #2 each agency in its plan must
       include:

   (a) The name of the information process or group of processes being
       automated.
       (b) A brief description of the information processes being
       automated. In addition, the description must:

   1. Indicate whether further risk management measures are appropriate.
       2. Where such measures are appropriate, indicate when and how a
       combination of information security practices, authentication
       technologies, management controls, or other business processes for
       each application will be practicable. In addition, if a particular
       application is not practicable for conversion to electronic
       interaction as part of the plan, agencies should explain the
       reasons and report any strategy to make such conversion
       practicable.

   (c) The date of automation for the information process(es). If the
   implementation is judged to be not practicable by October 2003, that
   conclusion may be noted instead of the date. The dates should reflect
   the prioritization based on achievability and net benefit as discussed
   in #1 above.

   (4) Consistent with the plan take measures (including, if necessary,
   amending regulations or policies to remove impediments to electronic
   transactions) to: (a) implement optional electronic submission,
   maintenance, or disclosure of information and the use of any necessary
   electronic signature alternatives; and (b) permit private employers who
   have record keeping responsibilities imposed by the Federal government
   to store and file information pertaining to their employees
   electronically.

   (5) Ensure that measures taken under the plan reflect appropriate
   information system confidentiality and security in accordance with the
   Privacy Act, the Computer Security Act, as amended, and the guidance
   contained in OMB Circular A-130, Appendices I and III; and ensure that
   these measures use, to the maximum extent practicable, technologies
   that are either prescribed in Federal Information Processing Standards
   promulgated by the Secretary of Commerce or are supported by voluntary
   consensus standards as defined in OMB Circular A-119, AFederal
   Participation in the Development and Use of Voluntary Consensus
   Standards and Conformity Assessment Activities,@ (63 FR 8546; February
   19, 1998).

   (6) Report progress annually against the plan (including any
   appropriate revisions to the schedule) above along with annual
   performance reporting required under OMB Circular A-11.

   (7) Consider the record keeping functionality of any systems that store
   electronic documents and electronic signatures, to ensure users have
   appropriate access to the information and can meet the agency=s record
   keeping needs.

   (8) In developing collections of information under the Paperwork
   Reduction Act, address whether optional electronic submission,
   maintenance, or disclosure of information (including the electronic
   storage and filing by employers of information about their employees)
   would be practicable as a means of decreasing the burden and/or
   increasing the practical utility of the collection.

    b. Department of Commerce
       The Department of Commerce must promulgate, in consultation with
       the agencies and OMB, Federal Information Processing Standards as
       appropriate to further the specific goals of GPEA. The Department
       should also develop guidance in the area of authentication
       technologies and implementations, including cryptographic digital
       signature technology, with assistance from the Chief Information
       Officers Council and the Public Key Infrastructure Steering
       Committee.
    c. Department of the Treasury
       The Department of the Treasury must develop, in consultation with
       the agencies and OMB, policies and practices for the use of
       electronic transactions and authentication techniques for use in
       Federal payments and collections and ensure that they fulfill the
       goals of GPEA.
    d. Department of Justice
       The Department of Justice must develop, in consultation with the
       agencies and OMB, practical guidance on legal considerations
       related to agency use of electronic filing and record keeping.
    e. National Archives and Records Administration
       The National Archives and Records Administration must develop, in
       consultation with the agencies and OMB, policies and guidance on
       the management, preservation, and disposal of Federal records
       associated with electronic government transactions, and must give
       particular consideration to records issues associated with the use
       of electronic signature technologies.
    f. General Services Administration
       The General Services Administration must support agencies'
       implementation of digital signature technology and related
       electronic service delivery.
    g. Office of Management and Budget
       OMB must provide continuing guidance and oversight for the
       implementation of GPEA, including through its review of collections
       of information under the Paperwork Reduction Act.

   Part II. How can agencies improve service delivery and reduce burden
   through the use of electronic signatures and electronic transactions?

   This part provides Federal managers with basic information to assist in
   planning for an orderly and efficient transition to electronic
   government. Agencies should begin their planning promptly to ensure
   compliance with the timetable in GPEA.

   Section 1. Introduction and background.

    a. As required by GPEA, this Part provides guidance to agencies for
       deciding whether to use electronic signature technology for a
       particular application. GPEA requires Federal agencies, by
       October 21, 2003, to allow individuals or entities the option to
       submit information or transact with the agencies electronically and
       to maintain records electronically, when practicable. It
       specifically states that electronic records and their related
       electronic signatures are not to be denied legal effect, validity,
       or enforceability merely because they are in electronic form. It
       also encourages Federal government use of a range of electronic
       signature alternatives. The guidance helps agencies consider which
       electronic signature technology may be most appropriate and
       suggests methods to maximize the benefit of electronic information
       while minimizing risk when implementing a particular electronic
       signature technology to secure electronic transactions.
       The guidance builds on the requirements and scope of the Paperwork
       Reduction Act of 1995 (PRA). According to the PRA agencies must,
       "consistent with the Computer Security Act of 1987 (CSA) (40 U.S.C.
       759 note), identify and afford security protections commensurate
       with the risk and magnitude of the harm resulting from the loss,
       misuse, or unauthorized access to or modification of information
       collected or maintained by or on behalf of an agency." 44 U.S.C.
       3506(g)(3). In addition, we note that all transactions that involve
       Federal information collections covered under the PRA are also
       covered under GPEA.
    b. As GPEA, PRA, CSA, and the Privacy Act recognize, the goal of
       information security is to protect the integrity and
       confidentiality of electronic records and transactions that enable
       business operations. Different security approaches offer varying
       levels of assurance in an electronic environment and are
       appropriate depending on a balance between the benefits from
       electronic information transfer and the risk of harm if the
       information is compromised. Among these approaches (in an ascending
       level of assurance) are:

   (1) so-called "shared secrets" methods (e.g., personal identification
       numbers or passwords),
       (2) digitized signatures or biometric means of identification, such
       as fingerprints, retinal patterns, and voice recognition, and
       (3) cryptographic digital signatures (discussed in more detail in
       Section 7).

   Combinations of approaches (e.g., digital signatures with biometrics)
   are also possible and may provide even higher levels of assurance than
   single approaches by themselves. Deciding which to use in an
   application depends first upon finding a balance between the risks
   associated with the loss, misuse, or compromise of the information, and
   the benefits, costs, and effort associated with deploying and managing
   the increasingly secure methods to mitigate those risks. Agencies must
   strike a balance, recognizing that achieving absolute security is
   likely to be highly improbable in most cases and prohibitively
   expensive if possible.

   Section 2. What is an "electronic signature?"

    a. GPEA defines "electronic signature" as follows:
       A
       . . . a method of signing an electronic message that --

       (A) identifies and authenticates a particular person as the source
       of the electronic message; and
       (B) indicates such person's approval of the information contained
       in the electronic message.@ (GPEA, section 1709(1)).

   This definition is consistent with other accepted legal definitions of
   signature. The term "signature" has long been understood as including
   "any symbol executed or adopted by a party with present intention to
   authenticate a writing." (Uniform Commercial Code, 1-201(39)(1970)).
   The AUniform Electronic Transactions Act,@ recently adopted by the
   National Conference of Commissioners of Uniform State Laws, and which
   is being enacted by the States, contains a similar definition (see
   http://www.nccusl.org). These flexible definitions permit the use of
   different electronic signature technologies, such as digital
   signatures, personal identifying numbers, and biometrics (section 7
   provides more detail on electronic signature technologies). While it is
   the case that, for historical reasons, the Federal Rules of Evidence
   are tailored to support the admissibility of paper-based evidence, the
   Federal Rules of Evidence have no actual bias against electronic
   evidence.

     In enacting GPEA, Congress addressed the legal effect and validity of
   electronic signatures or other electronic authentication:

   A
   Electronic records submitted or maintained in accordance with
   procedures developed under this title, or electronic signatures or
   other forms of electronic authentication used in accordance with such
   procedures, must not be denied legal effect, validity, or
   enforceability because such records are in electronic form@ (GPEA,
   section 1707).

   Section 3. How should agencies assess the risks, costs, and benefits?

   To evaluate the suitability of electronic signature alternatives for a
   particular application, the agency needs to perform an assessment. The
   assessment should include a risk analysis, in cases where the
   sensitivity of the transaction is sufficiently great, and a
   cost-benefit analysis. The assessment identifies the particular
   technologies and management controls best suited to minimizing the risk
   and cost to acceptable levels, while maximizing the benefits to the
   parties involved. Often parts of the assessment can be quantified, but
   some factors - particularly the risk analysis - usually can only be
   estimated qualitatively.

   Availability of data affects the extent to which risk can be reliably
   quantified. A quantitative approach to risk analysis generally attempts
   to estimate the monetary cost of risk compared to the cost of risk
   reduction techniques based on:

   (i) the likelihood that a damaging event will occur,
       (ii) the costs of potential losses, and
       (iii) the costs of mitigating actions that could be taken.

   Reliable data on likelihood and costs may not be available. In this
   case a qualitative approach can be taken by defining risk in more
   subjective and general terms such as high, medium, and low. In this
   regard, qualitative analyses depend more on the expertise, experience,
   and good judgment of the Federal managers conducting them than on
   quantified factors.

   The same can be true with other costs and benefits. Some factors, such
   as the value of deterring fraud, are difficult to quantify. If a new
   automated system is less secure than an old, paper-based system,
   attempts to commit fraud or to repudiate transactions may increase. It
   usually is not possible to quantify in monetary terms attitudes such as
   increased customer satisfaction and willingness to cooperate with an
   agency, which may result from electronic processes designed to be
   user-friendly. However, many costs (design, development, and
   implementation) and benefits (reduced transaction costs, saved time
   etc.) can be quantified, as is the case for other IT projects. Clearly,
   then, the assessment should use a combination of quantitative and
   qualitative methods to judge the practicability of any electronic
   transaction method and should include a comprehensive risk analysis
   when warranted by the sensitivity of the data and/or the transaction.

   Those alternatives that minimize risk to an acceptable level should be
   assessed in terms of net benefit to the agency and the customer in
   order to determine the electronic signature most appropriate for the
   transaction. If the net benefits are negative, the agency may determine
   that using an electronic process is not practicable at this time. In
   any event, all risk analyses are exercises in managerial judgment.
    a. Consider the costs of risk mitigation. The assessment must
       recognize that neither handwritten signatures nor electronic
       signatures are totally reliable and secure. Every method of
       signature, whether electronic or on paper, can be compromised with
       enough skill and resources, or due to poor security procedures,
       practices, or implementation. Setting up a very secure, but
       expensive, automated system may in fact buy only a marginal benefit
       of deterrence or risk reduction over other alternatives and may not
       be worth the extra cost. For example, past experience with fraud
       risks, and a careful analysis of those risks, shows that exposure
       is often low. If this is the case a less expensive system that
       substantially deters fraud is warranted, and not an absolutely
       secure system. Overall, security determination should conform to
       the Computer Security Act: the level of security should be
       commensurate with the level of sensitivity of the transaction.
    b. Conduct a cost-benefit analysis to determine if an electronic
       transaction is practicable. The primary goal of a cost-benefit
       analysis should be to find a cost-effective package of security
       mechanisms and management controls that can support automated
       systems using electronic communications. In estimating the cost of
       any system, agencies should include costs associated with hardware,
       software, administration, and support of the system, both
       short-term and long-term. Agencies should consider the following
       issues when framing the cost-benefit analysis:

   (1) Offering more than one way to communicate electronically may enable
       more people to conduct electronic transactions. If different
       partners have different skills and differing security concerns,
       providing a combination of mechanisms will meet the needs of a
       greater number of possible partners. While admittedly adding cost,
       offering multiple alternatives can add greater benefit, as well.
       Under GPEA, the agency must considered this option whenever it
       expects to receive over 50,000 electronic submittals (per year) of
       a particular form.
       (2) Electronic transactions can impose costs on the transaction
       partners. Many electronic signature techniques require specialized
       computer hardware and technical knowledge. The higher these
       threshold costs are, the higher the participation costs are for
       users. Higher costs will tend to narrow the range of potential
       users, which in turn limits the benefits of electronic
       communications.
       (3) Agencies should assess the costs of developing and maintaining
       electronic transactions. Information technology costs continue to
       fall and electronic signature techniques continue to evolve. As a
       result, the agency should periodically redo its risk and
       cost-benefit analyses on those programs where electronic
       transactions were initially deemed impracticable to determine
       whether costs and/or technologies have changed enough so that
       electronic transactions have become practicable.
       (4) If the cost-benefit analysis of a proposed solution indicates
       that the electronic solution is not cost effective, the agency
       should seek to identify opportunities to reengineer the underlying
       process being automated. Occasionally, practices and rules under
       the control of an agency are based on factors or circumstances that
       may no longer apply. In these cases new practices and rules should
       be proposed if the changes do not undermine the objective or impair
       security, and if the changes lead to a more efficient process.

     Document the decision. The Computer Security Act gives agency
   managers the responsibility to select an appropriate combination of
   technologies, practices, and management controls to minimize risk
   cost-effectively while maximizing benefits to all parties to the
   transaction. Agency managers should document these decisions, however
   qualitative, in the system security plan (see the NIST AGuide for
   Developing Security Plans for Information Technology Systems,@ Special
   Publication 800-18 (December 1998)) for later review and adjustment.

   Section 4. What benefits should agencies consider in planning and
   implementing electronic signatures and electronic transactions?

   Benefits from moving to electronic transactions and electronic
   signatures include reduction in transaction costs for the agency and
   the transaction partner. Transactions are quicker and it is often
   easier to access information related to the transaction because it is
   in electronic form. The electronic form often allows more effective
   data analysis because the information is easier to access. Better data
   analysis often improves the operation of the newly electronic
   transaction. In addition, if many transactions are electronic and data
   analysis can be done across transactions the benefits can spillover
   into the rest of the agency as operational awareness of the entire
   organization is improved. Moreover, business process reengineering
   should accompany all attempts to facilitate a transaction through
   information technology. Often the full benefits will be realized only
   by restructuring the process to take advantage of the technology.
   Merely moving an existing paper based process to an electronic one is
   unlikely to reap the maximum benefits from the electronic system.

   In order to account for all the benefits associated with electronic
   transactions, agencies should keep common information technology
   benefits in mind and look at the benefits realized by other agencies.
    a. What are the benefits? Agencies should identify all the benefits of
       automating program transactions and making those transactions
       secure, such as:
       (1) Increased speed of the transaction. The partner and the agency
       may spend less time completing the transaction. The quicker speed
       combined with putting the transaction online allows real-time help
       to the transaction partner, providing a benefit not found in a
       paper based transaction.
       (2) Increased partner participation and customer satisfaction.
       Often a decrease in partner transaction costs leads to more
       partners completing the transaction. In addition, partners tend to
       have a more positive view of the process given its speed and ease
       of use.
       (3) Improved record keeping efficiency and data analysis
       opportunities. If data are easier to access and store then they can
       enhance program evaluation and expand awareness of the effects of
       the government program in question.
       (4) Increased employee productivity and improved quality of the
       final product. Electronic transactions tend to have fewer errors
       because often the system minimizes retyping and automatically
       detects certain errors. These benefits allow the employees to
       concentrate more time on other matters.
       (5) Greater information benefits to the public. Moving to
       electronic transactions and electronic signatures often can make
       the related information more accessible to the public and Freedom
       of Information Act requests.
       (6) Improved security. Designed, implemented, and managed properly,
       electronic transactions can have fewer opportunities for fraud and
       more robust security measures than paper and envelope transactions.
       (7) Extensive security for highly sensitive information. Even
       though implementing a more secure electronic signature option often
       is more expensive initially than implementing less secure
       alternatives, there could be larger expected benefits if the
       information being protected is particularly sensitive.
    b. What are examples of benefits from electronic signatures and
       transactions? The following examples highlight agencies= experience
       in gaining significant benefits from electronic transactions and
       electronic signatures.
       (1) The Internal Revenue Service uses electronic identification to
       strengthen validation by incorporating electronic links between the
       user and preexisting data about that user in the agency's records
       in its TeleFile program. It enables selected taxpayers to file
       1040EZs with a touch-tone phone. Taxpayers get Customer Service
       Numbers (CSNs, i.e., PINs) that they then use to sign their returns
       and which help to validate their identities to the agency. Even
       though a CSN is not unique to an individual taxpayer (since it is
       only five digits long), the IRS authenticates the filer by using
       other identifying factors, such as the taxpayer's date of birth,
       taxpayer identification number, and by using additional procedures.
       This approach is not used over the Internet. Instead, it occurs in
       short-term connections over telephone lines, an environment where
       it is comparatively difficult for persons to eavesdrop and steal
       information or substitute false information.
       (2) Taxpayers who transmit their tax returns electronically give
       high marks to the Internal Revenue Service=s electronic filing
       programs. The American Customer Satisfaction Index (ACSI) shows
       customer satisfaction scores for IRS e-file exceed those for both
       the government and retail sectors and rival those of the financial
       services sector. For electronic tax return filers, the overall ACSI
       customer satisfaction index is 74. This surpasses the rating among
       paper return filers and compares with a government-wide
       satisfaction rating of 68.6. In addition, 78% of customers with
       electronic filing experiences say they are more satisfied now than
       two years ago. Other benefits of the electronic filing program
       include:

   (a) Refunds are received in half the time and even faster with Direct
       Deposit.
       (b) Its accuracy rate of over 99% reduces the chance of getting an
       error notice from the IRS.
       (c) It provides an IRS acknowledgment within 48 hours that the
       return has been received.

   (3) The General Services Administration, Federal Technology Service
   conducted the FTS2001 Procurement in a totally paperless environment.
   Beginning with the Request for Proposals (RFP) release, which was
   digitally signed and posted on the internet along with a utility for
   verifying the signature, through the issuance of the contracts to the
   winning bidders in an electronic signing ceremony, no paper changed
   hands at any time during the process. Bids from the offerors were
   delivered on a single CD, in contrast with the previous FTS2000
   solicitation that required several pallets of documentation for each
   submission. It is estimated that the paper equivalent of this bid would
   have resulted in a stack of paper approximately 5 stories high. This
   electronic process resulted in efficiencies and savings to the
   government of approximately $1,500,000 in time previously required to
   process paperwork. The paperless process was enabled by issuing each
   potential bidder a cryptographically-based digital signature
   certificate housed on a hardware token.

   (4) EDGAR, the Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval
   system, performs automated collection, validation, indexing,
   acceptance, and forwarding of submissions by companies and others who
   are required by law to file forms with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
   Commission (SEC). Its primary purpose is to increase the efficiency and
   fairness of the securities market for the benefit of investors,
   corporations, and the economy by accelerating the receipt, acceptance,
   dissemination, and analysis of time-sensitive corporate information
   filed with the agency. Other benefits include:

   (a) Elimination of the burdens and delays associated with microfiching
       10-12 million pages of information annually in a paper format.
       (b) Free SEC web site experiences over half a million hits daily,
       many from individuals trying to improve the quality of their
       investment decisions by examining disclosure documents. Prior to
       EDGAR, individuals simply could not afford the typical, minimum
       cost of $25 per document.
       (c) Full search capability allows improved ability to identify
       incidents of new or unusual conditions in the reports that are
       filed and allow rapid access to the information.

   (5) The U.S. Customs Service automated much of the information
   transactions with its import-export partners. It has allowed improved
   accuracy, efficiency, speed, and the ability to analyze the
   electronically filed data which has led to enforcement improvements.
   The Automated Commercial System (ACS) is the system used to track,
   control, and process all commercial goods imported into the United
   States. ACS facilitates merchandise processing, significantly cuts
   costs, and reduces paperwork requirements for both Customs and the
   trade community.

   Section 5. What risk factors should agencies consider in planning and
   implementing electronic signatures or electronic transactions?

   Properly implemented electronic signature technologies can offer
   degrees of confidence in authenticating identity that are greater than
   a handwritten signature can offer. These digital tools should be used
   to control risks in a cost-effective manner. In determining whether an
   electronic signature is sufficiently reliable for a particular purpose,
   agency risk analyses need at a minimum to consider the relationships
   between the parties, the value of the transaction, the risk of
   intrusion, and the likely need for accessible, persuasive information
   regarding the transaction at some later date. In addition, agencies
   should consider any other risks relevant to the particular process.
   Once these factors are considered separately, an agency should consider
   them together to evaluate the sensitivity to risk of a particular
   process, relative to the benefit that the process can bring.

    a. What is the relationship between the parties? Agency transactions
       fall into seven general categories, each of which may be vulnerable
       to differing security risks:
       (1) Intra-agency transactions (i.e., those which remain within the
       same Federal agency).
       (2) Inter-agency transactions (i.e., those between Federal
       agencies).
       (3) Transactions between a Federal agency and state or local
       government agencies.
       (4) Transactions between a Federal agency and a private
       organization such as: contractor, business, university, non-profit
       organization, or other entity.
       (5) Transactions between a Federal agency and a member of the
       general public.
       (6) Transactions between a Federal agency and a foreign government,
       foreign private organization, or foreign citizen.

   Risks tend to be relatively low in cases where there is an ongoing
   relationship between the parties. Generally speaking, there will be
   little risk of a partner later repudiating inter- or intra-governmental
   transactions of a relatively routine nature, and almost no risk of the
   governmental trading partner committing fraud. Similarly, transactions
   between a regulatory agency and a publicly traded corporation or other
   known entity regulated by that agency can often bear a relatively low
   risk of repudiation or fraud, particularly where the regulatory agency
   has an ongoing relationship with, and enforcement authority over, the
   entity. For the same reasons, risks tend to be relatively low within
   rulemaking contexts, as all parties can view the submissions of others
   so the risk of imposture is minimized. Other types of transactions,
   involving an ongoing relationship between an agency and
   non-governmental entities and persons, can have varying degrees of risk
   depending on the nature of the relationship between the parties; the
   same would apply in the case of those Federal programs in which the
   ongoing relationship is between entities that are acting (and
   collecting information under the PRA) on behalf of an agency and such
   non-governmental entities and persons -- e.g., transactions between a
   lender, guaranty agency, or other institution participating in a
   Federal loan or financial aid program and another program participant
   or a member of the general public, such as a borrower or grant
   recipient. On the other hand, the highest risk of fraud or repudiation
   is for a one-time transaction between a person and an agency that has
   legal or financial implications. Agencies should also pay attention to
   transactions with non-Federal entities, where the agency has a law
   enforcement responsibility but does not have an ongoing relationship.
   Transactions between a Federal agency and a foreign entity may entail
   unique legal risks due to varying national laws and regulations. In all
   cases, the relative value of the transaction needs to be considered as
   well.

    b. What is the value of the transaction? Agency transactions fall into
       five general categories, each of which may be vulnerable to
       different security risks:
       (1) Transactions involving the transfer of funds.
       (2) Transactions where the parties commit to actions or contracts
       that may give rise to financial or legal liability.
       (3) Transactions involving information protected under the Privacy
       Act or other agency-specific statutes, or information with national
       security sensitivity, obliging that access to the information be
       restricted.
       (4) Transactions where the party is fulfilling a legal
       responsibility which, if not performed, creates a legal liability
       (criminal or civil).
       (5) Transactions where no funds are transferred, no financial or
       legal liability is involved and no privacy or confidentiality
       issues are implicated.

   Agency risk analyses should attempt to identify the relative value of
   the type of transaction being automated and factor that against the
   costs associated with implementing technological and management
   controls to mitigate risk. Note that the value of the transaction
   depends on the perspective of the agency and the transaction partner.
   In general, electronic signatures are least necessary in very low value
   transactions and need not be used unless specifically required by law
   or regulation (i.e. #5). Where authentication is necessary, the method
   of electronic signature should be appropriate to the level of risk.

    c. What is the risk of intrusion? The probability of a security
       intrusion on the transaction can depend on the benefit to the
       potential attackers and their knowledge that the transaction will
       take place. Agency transactions fall into three categories:
       (1) Regular or periodic transactions between parties are at a
       higher risk than intermittent transactions because of their
       predictability, causing higher likelihood that an outside party
       would know of the scheduled transaction and be prepared to intrude
       on it.
       (2) The value of the information to outside parties could also
       determine their motivation to compromise the information.
       Information relatively unimportant to an agency may have high value
       to an outside party.
       (3) Certain agencies, because of their perceived image or mission,
       may be more likely to be attacked independent of the information or
       transaction. The act of disruption can be an end in itself.

    d. What is the likely need for accessible, persuasive information
       regarding the transaction at a later point? Agency transactions
       fall into seven general categories:
       (1) Transactions where the information generated will be used for a
       short time and discarded;
       (2) Transactions where the information generated may later be
       subject to audit or compliance;
       (3) Transactions where the information will be used for research,
       program evaluation, or other statistical analyses;
       (4) Transactions where the information generated may later be
       subject to dispute by one of the parties (or alleged parties) to
       the transaction;
       (5) Transactions where the information generated may later be
       subject to dispute by a non-party to the transaction;
       (6) Transactions where the information generated may later be
       needed as proof in court;
       (7) Transactions where the information generated will be archived
       later as permanently valuable records.

   When analyzing the benefits of converting from paper systems to
   electronic systems, agencies should reflect on what information would
   be lost in the conversion, e.g., an envelope containing a postmark and
   the sender's fingerprints and handwriting, or the specific questions
   that were asked on a questionnaire. Agencies should determine whether
   collecting the potentially lost information is truly important and
   whether an electronic system could cost-effectively collect and store
   similarly useful information.

   In some paper transactions requiring a party's signature, the signature
   both identifies the party and establishes that party's intent to submit
   a truthful answer. Sometimes a notary or other third party signs as
   witness to the signature. When converting these transactions to
   electronic systems, agencies should ensure that the selected technology
   and its implementation are able to provide similar functions.

   Section 6. What privacy and disclosure issues affect electronic
   signatures and electronic transactions?

   Section 1708 of GPEA limits the use of information collected in
   electronic signature services to communications with a Federal agency.
   It directs agencies and their staff and contractors not to use such
   information for any purpose other than for facilitating the
   communication. Exceptions exist if the person (or entity) that is the
   subject of the information provides affirmative consent to the
   additional use of the information, or if such additional use is
   otherwise provided by law. Accordingly, agencies should follow several
   privacy principles:
    a. Electronic signatures should only be required where needed. Many
       transactions do not need, and should not require, identifying or
       other information about an individual. For example, individuals
       generally should not be required to provide personal information in
       order to download public documents.
    b. When electronic signatures are required for a transaction, agencies
       should not collect more information from the user than is required
       for the application of the electronic signature. When appropriate,
       agencies are encouraged to use methods of electronic signing that
       do not require individuals to disclose their identity. This
       includes the ability of individuals in a group to be identified by
       a group identifier rather than an individual identifier if the only
       information needed to authenticate is the fact that that the
       individual is a member of the group.
    c. Users should be able to decide how, when, and what type of
       electronic authentication to use of those made available by the
       agency. If none are acceptable the user should be able to opt out
       to a paper process. If a user wants a certain mechanism for
       authentication to apply only to a single agency or to a single type
       of transaction, the user's desires should be honored, if
       practicable. Conversely, if the user wishes the authentication to
       work with multiple agencies or for multiple types of transactions,
       that should also be permitted where practicable. Specifically, it
       should be consistent with how the agency employs such means of
       authentication and with relevant statute and regulation and only if
       it conforms to practicable costs and risks.
    d. Agencies should ensure, and users should be informed, that
       information collected for the purpose of issuing or using
       electronic means of authentication will be managed and protected in
       accordance with applicable requirements under the Privacy Act, the
       Computer Security Act, and any agency-specific statute mandating
       the protection of such information, as well as with any relevant
       Executive Branch and agency specific privacy policies.

   Section 7. What are current electronic signature technologies?

   Questions regarding the following should be directed to the Department
   of Commerce. This section addresses two categories of security: 1)
   Non-cryptographic methods of authenticating identity; and 2)
   cryptographic control methods. The non-cryptographic approach relies
   solely on an identification and authentication mechanism that must be
   linked to a specific software platform for each application.
   Cryptographic controls may be used for multiple applications, if
   properly managed, and may encompass both authentication and encryption
   services. A highly secure implementation may combine both categories of
   technologies. The spectrum of electronic signature technologies
   currently available is described below.

    a. Non-Cryptographic Methods of Authenticating Identity
       (1) Personal Identification Number (PIN) or password: A user
       accessing an agency's electronic application is requested to enter
       a "shared secret" (called "shared" because it is known both to the
       user and to the system), such as a password or PIN. When the user
       of a system enters her name, she also enters a password or PIN. The
       system checks that password or PIN against data in a database to
       ensure its correctness and thereby "authenticates" the user. If the
       authentication process is performed over an open network such as
       the Internet, it is usually essential that at least the shared
       secret be encrypted. This task can be accomplished by using a
       technology called Secure Sockets Layer (SSL), which uses a
       combination of public key technology and symmetric cryptography to
       automatically encrypt information as it is sent over the Internet
       by the user and decrypt it before it is read by the intended
       recipient. SSL currently is built into almost all popular Web
       browsers, in such a fashion that its use is transparent to the end
       user. Assuming the password is protected during transmission, as
       described above, impersonating the user requires obtaining the
       user=s password. This may be relatively easy if users do not follow
       appropriate guidelines for password creation and use. Agencies
       should establish adequate guidelines for password creation and
       protection.
       (2) Smart Card: A smart card is a plastic card the size of a credit
       card containing an embedded integrated circuit or Achip@ that can
       generate, store, and/or process data. It can be used to facilitate
       various authentication technologies also embedded on the same card.
       By having different authentication choices the user can pick the
       authentication technique that meets but does not exceed the
       information requirement for the transaction. A user inserts the
       smart card into a card reader device attached to a computer or
       network input device. Information from the card's chip is provided
       to the computer only when the user also enters a PIN, password, or
       biometric identifier recognized by the card. Thus, the user
       authenticates to the card, making available electronic credentials
       which can then be used by the computer or network to strongly
       authenticate the user for transactions. This method offers far
       greater security than the typical use of a PIN or password, because
       the shared secret is between the user and the card, not with a
       remote server or network device. Moreover, to impersonate the user
       requires possession of the card as well as knowledge of the shared
       secret that activates the electronic credentials on the card. Thus,
       proper security requires that the card and the PIN or password used
       to activate it be kept separate. This is not a concern if a
       biometric is used for the latter purpose.
       (3) Digitized Signature: A digitized signature is a graphical image
       of a handwritten signature. Some applications require an individual
       to create his or her hand-written signature using a special
       computer input device, such as a digital pen and pad. The digitized
       representation of the entered signature may then be compared to a
       previously-stored copy of a digitized image of the handwritten
       signature. If special software judges both images comparable, the
       signature is considered valid. This application of technology
       shares the same security issues as those using the PIN or password
       approach, because the digitized signature is another form of shared
       secret known both to the user and to the system. The digitized
       signature can be more reliable for authentication than a password
       or PIN because there is a biometric component to the creation of
       the image of the handwritten signature. Forging a digitized
       signature can be more difficult than forging a paper signature
       since the technology digitally compares the submitted signature
       image with the known signature image, and is better than the human
       eye at making such comparisons. The biometric elements of a
       digitized signature, which help make it unique, are in measuring
       how each stroke is made B duration, pen pressure, etc. As with all
       shared secret techniques, compromise of a digitized signature image
       or characteristics file could pose a security (impersonation) risk
       to users.
       (4) Biometrics: Individuals have unique physical characteristics
       that can be converted into digital form and then interpreted by a
       computer. Among these are voice patterns (where an individual's
       spoken words are converted into a special electronic
       representation), fingerprints, and the blood vessel patterns
       present on the retina (or rear) of one or both eyes. In this
       technology, the physical characteristic is measured (by a
       microphone, optical reader, or some other device), converted into
       digital form, and then compared with a copy of that characteristic
       stored in the computer and authenticated beforehand as belonging to
       a particular person. If the test pattern and the previously stored
       patterns are sufficiently close (to a degree which is usually
       selectable by the authenticating application), the authentication
       will be accepted by the software, and the transaction allowed to
       proceed. Biometric applications can provide very high levels of
       authentication especially when the identifier is obtained in the
       presence of a third party to verify its authenticity, but as with
       any shared secret, if the digital form is compromised,
       impersonation becomes a serious risk. Thus, just like PINs, such
       information should not be sent over open networks unless it is
       encrypted. Moreover, measurement and recording of a physical
       characteristic could raise privacy concerns where the biometric
       identification data is shared by two or more entities. Further, if
       compromised, substituting a different, new biometric identifier may
       have limitations (e.g., you may need to employ the fingerprint of a
       different finger). Biometric authentication is best suited for
       access to devices, e.g. to access a computer hard drive or smart
       card, and less suited for authentication to software systems over
       open networks.
    b. Cryptographic Control
       Creating electronic signatures may involve the use of cryptography
       in two ways: symmetric (or shared private key) cryptography, or
       asymmetric (public key/private key) cryptography. The latter is
       used in producing digital signatures, discussed further below.
       (1) Shared Symmetric Key Cryptography
       In shared symmetric key approaches, the user signs a document and
       verifies the signature using a single key (consisting of a long
       string of zeros and ones) that is not publicly known, or is secret.
       Since the same key does these two functions, it must be transferred
       from the signer to the recipient of the message. This situation can
       undermine confidence in the authentication of the user's identity
       because the symmetric key is shared between sender and recipient
       and therefore is no longer unique to one person. Since the
       symmetric key is shared between the sender and possibly many
       recipients, it is not private to the sender and hence has lesser
       value as an authentication mechanism. This approach offers no
       additional cryptographic strength over digital signatures (see
       below). Further, digital signatures avoid the need for the shared
       secret.
       (2) Public/Private Key (Asymmetric) Cryptography - Digital
       Signatures
       (a) To produce a digital signature, a user has his or her computer
       generate two mathematically linked keys -- a private signing key
       that is kept private, and a public validation key that is available
       to the public. The private key cannot be deduced from the public
       key. In practice, the public key is made part of a "digital
       certificate," which is a specialized electronic file digitally
       signed by the issuer of the certificate, binding the identity of
       the individual to his or her private key in an unalterable fashion.
       The whole system that implements digital signatures and allows them
       to be used with specific programs to offer secure communications is
       called a Public Key Infrastructure, or PKI.
       (b) A "digital signature" is created when the owner of a private
       signing key uses that key to create a unique mark (the signature)
       on an electronic document or file. The recipient employs the
       owner's public key to validate that the signature was generated
       with the associated private key. This process also verifies that
       the document was not altered. Since the public and private keys are
       mathematically linked, the pair is unique: only the public key can
       validate signatures made using the corresponding private key. If
       the private key has been properly protected from compromise or
       loss, the signature is unique to the individual who owns it, that
       is, the owner cannot repudiate the signature. In relatively
       high-risk transactions, there is always a concern that the user
       will claim some else made the transaction. With public key
       technology, this concern can be mitigated. To claim he did not make
       the transaction, the user would have to feign loss of the private
       key. By creating and holding the private key on a smart card or an
       equivalent device, and by using a biometric mechanism (rather than
       a PIN or password) as the shared secret between the user and the
       smart card for unlocking the private key to create a signature this
       concern can be mitigated. In other words, combining two or three
       distinct electronic signature technology approaches in a single
       implementation can enhance the security of the interaction and
       lower the potential for fraud to almost zero. Furthermore, by
       establishing clear procedures for a particular implementation of
       digital signature technology, so that all parties know what the
       obligations, risks, and consequences are, agencies can also
       strengthen the effectiveness of a digital signature solution.
       The reliability of the digital signature is directly proportional
       to the degree of confidence one has in the link between the owner's
       identity and the digital certificate, how well the owner has
       protected the private key from compromise or loss, and the
       cryptographic strength of the methodology used to generate the
       public-private key pair. The cryptographic strength is affected by
       key length and by the characteristics of the algorithm used to
       encrypt the information. Further information on digital signatures
       can be found in AAccess with Trust@ (September 1998)
       (http://gits-sec.treas.gov/).
    c. Technical Considerations of the Various Electronic Signature
       Alternatives
       (1) To be effective, each of these methods requires agencies to
       develop a series of policy documents that provide the important
       underlying framework of trust for electronic transactions and which
       facilitate the evaluation of risk. The framework identifies how
       well the user=s identity is bound to his authenticator (e.g., his
       password, fingerprint, or private key). By considering the strength
       of this binding, the strength of the mechanism itself, and the
       sensitivity of the transaction, an agency can determine if the
       level of risk is acceptable. If an agency has experience with the
       technology, existing policies and documents may be available for
       use as guidance. Where the technology is new to an agency, this may
       require additional effort.
       (2) While digital signatures (i.e. public key/private key) are
       generally the most certain method for assuring identity
       electronically, the policy documents must be established carefully
       to achieve the desired strength of binding. The framework must
       identify how well the signer's identity is bound to his or her
       public key in a digital certificate (identity proofing). The
       strength of this binding depends on the assumption that only the
       owner has sole possession of the unique private key used to make
       signatures that are validated with the public key. The strength of
       this binding also reflects whether the private key is placed on a
       highly secure hardware token, such as a smart card, or is
       encapsulated in software only; and how difficult it is for a
       malefactor to deduce the private key using cryptographic methods
       (which depends upon the key length and the cryptographic strength
       of the key-generating algorithm).
       A Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) is one mechanism to support the
       binding of public keys with the user=s identity. A PKI can provide
       the entire policy and technical framework for the systematic and
       diligent issuance, management and revocation of digital
       certificates, so that users who wish to rely on someone=s
       certificate have a firm basis to check that the certificate has not
       been maliciously altered, and to confirm that it remains active
       (i.e., has not been revoked because of loss or compromise of the
       corresponding private key). This same infrastructure provides the
       basis for interoperability among different agencies or entities, so
       that a person=s digital certificate can be accepted for
       transactions by organizations external to the one that issued it.
       (3) By themselves, digitized (not digital) signatures, PINs,
       biometric identifiers, and other shared secrets do not directly
       bind identity to the contents of a document as do digital
       signatures which actually use the document information to make the
       signature. For shared secrets to bind the user=s identity to the
       document, they must be used in conjunction with some other
       mechanism. Biometric identifiers such as retinal patterns used in
       conjunction with digital signatures can offer far greater proof of
       identify than pen and ink signatures.
       (4) While not as robust as biometric identifiers and digital
       signatures, PINs have the decided advantage of proven customer and
       citizen acceptance, as evidenced by the universal use of PINs for
       automated teller machine transactions. PINs combined with encrypted
       Internet sessions, particularly through the use of Secure Sockets
       Layer technology on the World Wide Web, are very popular for retail
       consumer transactions requiring credit card or other personal
       authenticating information. This may well be suited for a variety
       of government applications. Also, secure Web browsers are
       increasingly being designed to accommodate digital signatures,
       making this approach a possible interim step towards implementing
       the more robust authentication provided by digital signatures.
       (5) It is important to remember that technical factors are but one
       aspect to be considered when an agency plans to implement
       electronic signature-based applications. Other important aspects
       are considered in the following sections.

   Section 8. How should agencies implement electronic signatures and
   electronic transactions?

   After the agency has conducted the assessment and identified an
   appropriate electronic signature technology alternative that may be
   used to secure an automated business process, the agency will proceed
   to implement this decision. For any electronic transaction, agencies
   should collect and record adequate information regarding the content,
   process, and identities of the parties involved. In doing so, agencies
   should consider the following:
    a. Build from a policy framework. GPEA applies to interactions between
       outside entities and the Federal government, as well as to
       transactions and record keeping required by parties under Federal
       programs. Accordingly, agencies should consider whether their
       policies or programmatic regulations support the use and
       enforceability of electronic signature alternatives to handwritten
       signatures as well as to electronic record keeping under Federal
       programs. If necessary, agencies should develop a strategy to make
       any revisions needed to achieve this goal. In addition, by clearly
       informing the transaction partners that electronic signatures and
       records will be acceptable and used for enforcement purposes, their
       legal standing is enhanced. Several agencies have already chosen to
       promulgate policies or regulations on this issue, including:
       1) Securities and Exchange Commission (17 C.F.R. Part 232),
       electronic regulatory filings;
       2) Environmental Protection Agency (55 Fed. Reg. 31,030 (1990)),
       policy on electronic reporting;
       3) Food and Drug Administration (21 C.F.R. Part 11), electronic
       signatures and records;
       4) Internal Revenue Service (Treasury Reg. 301.6061-1), signature
       alternatives for tax filings;
       5) Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 C.F.R. Parts 2 and 4),
       electronic contracts;
       6) General Services Acquisition Regulation (48 C.F.R. Part
       552.216-73), electronic orders;
       7) Federal Property Management Regulations (41 C.F.R. Part 101-41),
       electronic bills of lading.
       8) Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (1 C.F.R. Part
       18.7), electronic signatures on documents submitted for publication
       in the Federal Register.
       9) Commodity Futures Trading Commission (17 C.F.R. Part 1.4 and
       Part 1.3(tt)), electronic signatures for filings.
       When specifying the requirements for electronic record keeping by
       regulated entities or government business partners (e.g.
       contractors or grantees), particularly the maintenance of
       electronic forms pertaining to employees by employers, agencies
       should consult the "Performance Guideline for the Legal Acceptance
       of Records Produced by Information Technology Systems," developed
       by the Association for Information and Image Management (ANSI/AIIM
       TR31). This set of documents offers suggestions for maximizing the
       likelihood that electronically filed and stored records will be
       accorded full legal recognition. If an agency chooses to use
       digital signature technology, a regulation might specify that each
       individual will be issued a unique digital signature certificate to
       use, agree to keep the private key confidential, agree to accept
       responsibility for anything that is submitted using that key, or
       accept other conditions under which the agency will accept
       electronic submissions.
    b. Where necessary, use a mutually understood, signed agreement
       between the person or entity submitting the electronically-signed
       information and the receiving Federal agency.
       As a matter of efficiency, arrangements with large numbers of
       customers may be best accomplished by setting forth an agency's
       terms and conditions in a policy or regulation. Arrangements with
       smaller numbers of customers may lend themselves to one or more
       agreements, using a document referred to as a "terms and
       conditions" agreement. These agreements can ensure that all
       conditions of submission and receipt of data electronically are
       known and understood by the submitting parties. This is
       particularly the case where terms and conditions are not spelled
       out in agency programmatic regulations.
    c. Minimize the likelihood of repudiation.
       Agencies should develop well-documented mechanisms and procedures
       to tie transactions to an individual in a legally binding way. For
       example, the integrity of even the most secure digital signature
       rests on the continuing confidentiality of the private key, so
       instituting procedures for ensuring the confidentiality of the
       private key would be in an agency=s interest. Similarly, in the
       case of electronic signatures based on the use of shared secrets
       like PINs or passwords, the integrity of the transaction depends on
       the user not disclosing the shared secret, so an agency should have
       procedures for encouraging the maintenance of the PIN=s integrity.
       If a defendant is later charged with a crime based on an
       electronically signed document, he or she would have every
       incentive to show a lack of control over (or loss of) the private
       key or PIN, or in the case of a PIN, that the government failed to
       protect the PIN on its computer system. Indeed, if that defendant
       plans to commit fraud, he or she may intentionally compromise the
       secrecy of the key or PIN, so that the government would later have
       a more difficult time uniquely linking him or her to the electronic
       transaction. Promulgating
