http://www.pueblo.gsa.gov/links.htm

                                  Wednesday
                              January 30, 2002


                                   Topics
   Cars -- Buying, Selling, Car Maintenance, Insurance
   Children -- Learning, Parenting
   Computers -- Buying, Getting On-line
   Education -- School Loans, Planning for College, Alternative Ways to
   Earn a Degree
   Employment -- Tips on finding a job, Occupation information, Workplace
   rights, Pensions
   Federal Programs -- Social Security, Medicare, Veteran's Benefits,
   Buying Government Property
   Food -- Nutrition for better health, Safe food handling and preparation
   Health -- Drugs and Health Aids, Dieting and Nutrition, Medical
   Problems
   Housing -- Financing and Sales, Home Maintenance
   Money -- Credit, Saving, Investing, Retirement Planning, Protecting
   your money
   Small Business -- Starting a Business, Small Business Administration,
   Patents and Copyrights
   Travel -- Foreign Travel Requirements, National Parks, Travel Advice,
   Flying rights and advice
   And more... -- Having trouble finding something? Check here or go to
   our search!

                                  Resources
   Consumer Action Website -- Tips, advice, listings of what to do and who
   to call with a consumer problem
   Image of a button linking to the National Contact Center
   Image of a button linking to FirstGov for Kids
   Recalls -- Federal and Private Sector Recalls on Products
   Scams and Frauds -- A listing of the latest scams and recalls announced
   by Federal Agencies and Consumer Groups

   Subscribe to FCIC
    news and media
    e-mail updates!

   Image linking to FirstGov "Your first click to the U.S. Government"




                              FCIC Home Page
   Search Page In The News Page Press Room Page FAQ Page Shop Site Links
   Page About Us Page Fun Stuff
   Animated promotion image
                                   space

                           More Great Information
   We know we have a lot of great information, but we may not have
   everything you're looking for. Here are some useful sites we think may
   help you get the information you need.
                                   space

   Topics: Looking for some more information on one of our catalog topics?
   Here are links to other sites we think you may find useful in each of
   our topic areas. Look here for great tools and resources on cars,
   children, computers, education, employment, federal programs, food,
   health, housing, money, small business, travel and more.
   space

   Check out a business: Have a consumer question? Want to know more about
   a business you are dealing with? Your local Better Business Bureau can
   help you with this and more. Use these links to find out how to contact
   the one nearest you.
   space
   Consumer Issues: Want to know more about the latest consumer issues?
   Here is a listing of links to National Consumer Organizations. While
   these organizations cannot act on behalf of individuals with consumer
   problems, you can use their resources to learn more about national
   consumer problems, issues and trends.
   space
   Privacy Resources: Here are some helpful links to Federal sites, along
   with informative sites from other non-governmental organizations, all
   grouped by subject.  When you click on these links, you’ll be leaving
   our website, so don’t forget to bookmark us.
   space

   State, County and City Government Consumer Protection Offices: When you
   have a consumer problem or complaint, the best place to turn is your
   state or local offices. Use these links to find out how to locate  your
   nearest government offices.
   space

   Federal Agencies: Many agencies have enforcement and/or
   complaint-handling duties for products and services used by the general
   public. Many also have fact sheets, booklets and other information
   which might be helpful in making purchase decisions and dealing with
   consumer problems. Check this America Anywhere list for telephone
   numbers to agencies,  use our links to Federal agencies, or if you need
   help deciding whom to contact, call us toll-free at 1-800-688-9889.
   space

   References: Looking for the capital of Montana? Trying to find out what
   the weather will be like in Sheboygan this weekend? These reference
   sites may not be directly consumer-related, they have handy information
   that you may need including maps, weather forecasts, and online
   dictionaries.
   space
   Site Map - Text Version -  Privacy Policy - Security Statement
   space

   This service is provided by the Federal Consumer Information Center of
     the U.S. General Services Administration. If you have a comment or
                question, e-mail us at catalog.pueblo@gsa.gov
     [gsa_logo.gif]

   [invisible.gif]
