http://library.msha.gov/basisbwdocs/bwsrch.htm

                        The BASIS WEBserver Search Form

   You can use this form to retrieve documents from the associated
   database, which is indicated in the title bar of your Web browser. Just
   fill out the form and click the OK button. The system will then display
   a summary list of all the documents that met your search criteria.

   This section describes the following:
     * Parts of the Search Form
     * Toolbar Buttons

   If you are new to the BASIS WEBserver and would like more information
   about it, or if you'd like to see the table of contents for the entire
   document, see Introducing the BASIS WEBserver.

                            Parts of the Search Form

   A Search form can vary from Web site to Web site and from database to
   database. However, at the very least, the form will always consist of
   field labels and search value boxes. The field labels show all the
   fields that you can search in the database. Enter search values in the
   blank box(es) underneath the field label(s). When you click OK, the
   system will retrieve the documents that meet your search criteria.

   Note: In addition to the field labels on the form, you may come across
   a droplist box containing a list of field names. This is known as a
   multipurpose field. You can search any of the listed fields by
   selecting its name from the droplist and entering a seach value in the
   box underneath the multipurpose field.

   The other components that may appear on a search form are test
   operators, connector operators, and sort information droplist boxes.
   For information about each of these components, click one of the
   following:
     * search values,
     * test operators,
     * connector operators,
     * sort information,

   or just continue to scroll down.

Search values

   The search value is the value that you want each document's field data
   compared against. The search value boxes are located underneath the
   field label and after the test operator--if test operators exist on the
   form. You do not need to enclose your search values within any special
   characters (such as double quotes). Depending upon how the site
   administrator set up the database, the search may be case-sensitive.
   The following list shows the possible search values you can enter and
   some examples. (If you want to know more about search values, click
   here.)

   Numbers

          + 23
          + 3.14
          + -55

   Character strings

          + Smith
          + 2nd

   Dates

          + Jun 21, 1991
          + 21Jun1991

   Ranges

          + 1:10
          + a:c

   Phrases

          + hello there
          + University of California

   Lists

          + sand, sun, sea
          + 1 & 3 & 5

   Character patterns

          + con???
          + pres*

   Phrase patterns

          + University # California
          + # # parking

Test Operators

   Test operators may appear on the Search form. If they do not, then the
   default operator specifed by the site administrator is used. If they do
   appear, then they are located underneath the field labels in the form
   of droplist boxes.

   These operators indicate the desired relationship between your search
   value and the data in the field you are searching. For instance, you
   may want to retrieve documents whose NAME field equals JOE. Equals (the
   test operator) indicates that the search value JOE and the data in the
   NAME field should match (i.e., matching is the desired relationship).

   The following list describes the test operators that may appear in the
   droplist boxes for each type of field. (If you want to know more about
   test operators, click here.)

  For Numeric Fields

   =
          Searches for a value that matches your search value.

   greater than
          Searches for a value that is greater than your search value.

   greater than or equal to
          Searches for a value that is greater than or equal to your
          search value.

   less than
          Searches for a value that is less than your search value.

   less than or equal to
          Searches for a value that is less than or equal to your search
          value.

   not=
          Searches for a value that does not match your search value.

  For Short and Long Text Fields

   To understand fully the functions of the following operators, you must
   know the definitions of stopwords and keywords. Stopwords are small,
   common words that have little retrieval value, such as "the," "a,"
   "of," and "for." Your administrator determines exactly which words are
   stopwords. Keywords are any words that are not designated as stopwords.

   inc

        Searches for any keywords in any order (when the search values are
                separated with commas).

        Searches for all keywords in any order (when the search values are
                separated with ampersands).

   contains all
          Searches for all keywords in any order.

   contains any
          Searches for any keywords in any order.

   contains the phrase
          Searches for all keywords and stopwords in exact order and
          position.

   contains in order
          Searches for all keywords in exact order and position.

   equals**
          Searches for a value that matches your search value.

   is not**
          Searches for a value that does not match your search value.
          (This test operator is for short text fields only.)

   ** These operators are available only for short text fields are not
   indexed.

  For Date Fields

   on
          Searches for a date that matches your search value.

   after
          Searches for a date that is greater than your search value.

   on or after
          Searches for a date that is greater than or equal to your search
          value.

   before
          Searches for a date that is less than your search value.

   on or before
          Searches for a date that is less than or equal to your search
          value.

   not on
          Searches for a date that does not match your search value.

Connector Operators

   If there are connector operators on the search form, they may appear in
   the following places:
     * in the lower right corner of the form after the label "Connector"
     * after each search value box on the form

   If they do not appear on the form, then the system uses the default
   specified by the site administrator.

   These operators enable you to combine two or more search conditions.
   For instance, you may want to search more than one field at the same
   time. The possible connector operators are:

   AND
          Retrieves documents when all search conditions are true.

   OR
          Retrieves documents when any search condition is true.

   AND NOT
          Retrieves documents when the search condition that precedes the
          operator is true and the one that follows is not true. (This
          operator is available only when the connector operator droplist
          boxes appear after each search value box on the form and when
          the document is not is HTML format.)

Sort Information

   When the sort feature is available on the Search form, it appears as a
   droplist box after the label "Sort By." This criterion affects the
   order in which the retrieved documents are listed in the summary
   display. You can sort the documents according to any field that appears
   in this droplist box. If you select $RANK as the sort criterion, then
   the documents will be sorted according to how many hits were found in
   each. (A hit is a term in the document that matches the search value
   you specified.) If you keep the default value of NONE, then the
   documents will not be sorted. Also, if the sort order criterion
   droplist box does not appear on the search form, the documents will not
   be sorted.

   Another sort feature that may appear on the Search form is a droplist
   box labelled "Sort Order." This box gives you even more control over
   the order in which the retrieved documents are listed in the summary
   display. Once you've chosen the sort criterion in the Sort By box, you
   can indicated whether you want the documents sorted in Ascending or
   Descending order by selecting one of these two values in the Sort Order
   box.

   Note: When you specify $RANK for the Sort By box, the system will list
   the documents in descending order no matter what value you have
   selected in the Sort Order box.

                                Toolbar Buttons

   The buttons that are highlighted on the toolbar can be used from the
   Search form and are explained below. Those not highlighted are inactive
   and therefore are not described in this section.

   [find.gif]
          Clears the boxes on the Search form of any existing data.

   [terms2.gif]
          Displays the Search Assistant form. This form enables you to
          look at terms from a field's index, thesaurus, or legal list.

   [help.gif]
          Displays the online help.
