http://icb.nasa.gov/NF1688Instruc.doc

   : COMBINED INVENTIONS AND CONTRIBUTIONS BOARD AUTOMATIC AWARDS FORM
   Version: 14 November 2001 to retrieve the form. Note that there are
   four pages of contributors with up to twelve per page that can be
   entered on a single form. Each page is a spreadsheet within the Excel
   workbook. Under no circumstances may the requestor place more than
   twelve contributors on a single spreadsheet, one per line, nor more
   than 48 in a single workbook. Formatting changes are not allowed. Only
   one type of automatic award category may be checked for the entire
   workbook, so that the submission category (Tech Brief, patent, or
   software) is clearly evident for the file. The file name that must be
   placed on the file must follow this convention: First three characters:
   Center designation (ARC, DRC, GSC, KSC, LAR, LEW, MSC, MSF, NPO, or
   SSC) Next character: T for Tech Brief, P for patent, S for software
   Next two numbers: the submission number of that type for the year (01,
   02, etc.) Last two numbers: the fiscal year (00, 01, etc.) Extension:
   XLS or XLC For example, LARP0701.XLS would be the seventh patent award
   submission for Langley Research Center in FY '01. Addresses may be
   filled out using the ALT-ENTER key combination at the end of each line,
   allowing multiple line entries in the cell. The title is set to
   automatically wrap the text within the cell. Each file must be signed
   by the appropriate Center representative: the patent counsel for
   patents, the chair of the Software Release Authority for software, and
   the Commercial Technology Office representative for Tech Briefs. Until
   such time that electronic signatures are available to NASA, a hard
   copy, printed in legal landscape, must be submitted to the ICB
   representative, signed by the appropriate person. In addition an
   electronic copy must be submitted also via e-mail that has all of the
   Privacy Act data removed; i.e., the bank transit and account numbers,
   home addresses, and social security numbers. These data are removed by
   clearing the appropriate cells (DO NOT DELETE THE COLUMNS). E-mailing
   the form with Privacy Act information intact is a violation of the
   Privacy Act, subject to fines and/or imprisonment. The employer type
   must match the category of the contributor and the contributor's name
   and award amount must be placed in the appropriate fields. All U.S.
   government employees are in the ``G'' field and any other
   non-government employer type is in the ``NG'' field, including retirees
   and recipients who are deceased (the estate's name and tax ID number is
   used in those cases). Do not place any other data in the data areas
   (row seven and higher). Do not leave any information blank in the data
   areas. Incomplete forms will be returned to sender. There are some
   additional facts of which you should be aware: (1) No automatic award
   case will be approved wherein the total value of the award exceeds
   $7,500. In such cases, i.e., with more than 21 authors on a Tech Brief
   or more than 15 authors of a software case or more than 15 inventors on
   a patent application, the case must be prepared on a NASA Form 1329 for
   individual evaluation. (2) Patent application awards must await one of
   two possible events before they may be submitted: the non-provisional
   parent patent application must be actually filed by NASA at the U.S.
   P.T.O.; or the Divisional or Continuation-In-Part patent must actually
   be issued by the U.S.P.T.O. for those cases where no previous award was
   granted for the application. In the latter case, the NASA case number
   and U.S. patent number should be furnished on the NASA Form 1688. (3)
   The software award should only be issued to those cases that have been
   officially released by the Center management to qualified users and
   that have met all requirements under NPD 2820 (1) (e) or NPD/G 2210 if
   appropriate. Release to the public is not necessary. (4) There should
   be a unique NASA case number for each software release. The software
   award may be granted for any major new release, major new port to a new
   platform, or for a major rewrite. If the same base NASA case number is
   used, e.g., ARC-12345, it should have a unique suffix for each
   subsequent release; i.e., ARC-12345-1, ARC 12345-2, etc., similar to
   that used for patent cases that have become divisionals and CIPs. Only
   those individuals who materially contributed technically to the
   "upgrades" should be named on those cases.
