http://www.chbr.noaa.gov/OfficeoftheDirector.html

   CCEHBR Banner   Sidebar Sitemap


                        Office of the Center Director

               The Office of the Center Director provides the
   focal point of accountability for all authorities and responsibilities
                        delegated or assigned to the
   Center by the Director of NOS/NCCOS. The Director assists the NOS/NCCOS
      Director in identifying and evaluating national/regional coastal
                                  ecosystem
   health issues and conducts research to support NOAA decision making in
                                 this arena.
     * CCEHBR Center Director
     * Research / Staff Support
     * Facilities Support
     * Research Interests
     * Outreach

   CCEHBR Center Director
   The Center Directorate is responsible for the planning, execution and
   reporting of research conducted in the six research branches within the
   Center: Coastal Research, Living Marine Resources, Marine
   Ecotoxicology, Marine Forensics, Pathobiology, Risk Assessment and
   Information Management. The Center Directorate is also responsible for
   the day to day administrative and facilities operation including all
   aspects of personnel, budget/finance, travel, training,
   safety/environmental compliance, facilities systems (e.g., HVAC,
   refrigeration, security, fire/sensor, power backup), communications
   systems and vehicles/vessels. In addition, the Directorate provides
   support to NOS/NCCOS providing information and technical support as
   needed.

   Research/Staff Support
   The Center Director relies on the advice of the Center Management Team
   (CMT) and several standing committees. The CMT is composed of the six
   Branch Chiefs, and selected staff with specific expertise helpful in
   Center decision making. Currently the staff serving on the CMT are:
   Paul Becker, NIST; Karen Bauersfeld, Budget/Finance; Jan Carson,
   Executive Secretary; Nancy Davey, Human Resources; Pat Fair, Living
   Marine Resources Br.; Fred Kern, Pathobiology Br. (Oxford); Carl
   Kinerd, Communication and Network Services; Ron Lundstrom, Marine
   Forensics Br.; Malcolm Meaburn, Risk Analysis and Information
   Management Br.; Geoff Scott, Marine Ecotoxicolgy Br. CCEHBR standing
   committees are: The Equal Employment Opportunity Committee, The
   Safety/Environmental Compliance Committee, The Radiation Safety
   Committee, The Library Committee, The Personnel Management Advisory
   Committee, Chemistry Review Committee.

   Facilities Support
   The Center Director relies on several staff for support in the area of
   facilities management: Leased facility operation, SCDNR staff; NOAA
   facility systems, Martin Burnett, CCEHBR Facilities Manager;
   Safety/Environmental Compliance, Martin Burnett, acting Safety Officer,
   and Laura Seabeneck, NOAA/NMFS regional Environmental Compliance
   coordinator; Local area network, telephone system, satellite connects,
   Carl Kinerd, CCEHBR Communication and Network Services.

   Research interests
   As Center Director Sylvia Galloway maintains interest in numerous
   research areas: Marine biotoxin assessment as related to fishery
   product consumers; Environmental contaminants in marine mammal and sea
   turtle tissues, especially those related to disease and death in those
   species; Metabolism of contaminant metals with special emphasis on the
   interaction of Se and CH3Hg; Use of biochemical species identification
   techniques for forensic examination of unknowns in law enforcement
   cases involving protected marine species.

   Outreach
   As Center Director, Sylvia Galloway serves on the Greater Charleston
   Federal Executive Association Board. She has participated as a Board
   member for two years, served two years as Vice Chair, and currently is
   serving as the Chair. The major events sponsored by the FEA are the
   Combined Federal Campaign for the Greater Charleston Tri-County area
   and the Federal Employee of the Year Awards Process, Ceremony and
   luncheon. Dr. Galloway also serves on the South Carolina Cooperative
   Administrative Support Unit (CASU) executive board located in Beaufort
   SC.

   The CCEHBR staff are involved in several outreach activities providing
   time and/or funding. Several CCEHBR staff serve as Adjunct Faculty at
   several Universities within the Sate of South Carolina: MUSC , USC
   supporting undergraduate and graduate education programs. In addition,
   CCEHBR staff support two excellent undergraduate summer research
   programs hosted at the Fort Johnson Marine Resources Center, SCDNR
   'Minorities in Marine and Environmental Science Program' and the CofC
   Grice Laboratory Program 'Summer Research in Marine Biology'. In
   addition, the CCEHBR EEOC has been active in the local Partners in
   Education Program, providing support to a local elementary school, Mt.
   Zion that serves as a minority community primarily.

   Top
