http://majorana.pnl.gov/charter.pdf

   Majorana Collaboration Charter Adopted August 15, 2001 Disclaimer This
   Charter describes an informal, non-binding agreement. It shall not be
   construed as a legal agreement between any individuals or organizations
   signing it or referred to within it, although, for information purposes
   only, any version, portion, or derivative of this Charter may be used
   or referenced in contracts or other legal documents. Name This Charter
   describes the Majorana Collaboration, also referred to as "Majorana" or
   "the Collaboration". Purpose The primary purpose of the Collaboration
   is to advance knowledge of the properties of neutrinos produced in
   atomic nuclei. Among other activities, it will prepare for, conduct,
   interpret, and communicate results of experiments. It may conduct
   related theoretical studies, and it may pursue knowledge unrelated to
   neutrino properties, so long as these pursuits do not seriously detract
   from the primary purpose. Collaboration Membership The Majorana
   Collaboration is composed of self-described groups of one or more
   individual persons assembled for the purpose of participating in the
   Collaboration. For convenience, these Member groups are usually
   identified by the name of their primary institutional affiliation, such
   as an educational institution or national laboratory. In spite of the
   convenient labeling, the institutions whose names are borrowed are not
   Members and are discouraged from determining Membership or
   representation in the Collaboration. Majorana Charter Members are
   groups from Triangle Universities Nuclear Laboratory (TUNL), Pacific
   Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL), University of South Carolina
   (USC), Institute of Theoretical and Experimental Physics (ITEP) Moscow,
   Joint Institute for Nuclear Research (JINR) Dubna, and New Mexico State
   University (NMSU). Additional Members are invited only following
   approval by the Executive Council. The Executive Council may remove a
   Member from the Collaboration for any reason. Potential reasons may
   include resignation, inactivity, or activity contrary to the Charter.
   No Member shall invite a new group to become a Member of the Majorana
   Collaboration without prior Executive Council approval. Before asking
   the Council for a 1 decision on the proposed invitation, the proponent
   must provide the name of the proposed group's parent organization, a
   provisional point of contact for the group, a justification for the
   invitation, and any other information the Council should have to make a
   reasoned decision. There should be an expectation that specific
   contributions by the proposed Member are necessary for Majorana
   success, and that these contributions will outweigh any negative
   aspects. Negative aspects may include increasing the size of the
   Collaboration (and therefore of the Executive Council) and drawbacks
   that may be specific to the group proposed for membership. For example,
   if a commercial group important to the Collaboration becomes a Member,
   other Members may be constrained from using that vendor by procurement
   rules of their parent organizations. Member Roles and Responsibilities
   The Executive Council shall request that each Member group identify its
   preferred roles and responsibilities in the Collaboration. The Council
   shall then determine the Collaboration's position on both current and
   anticipated roles and responsibilities for each of the Member groups.
   The Council shall update and distribute this approved list
   periodically. The list shall be updated prior to every invitation to a
   potential new Member. Executive Council All activities of the
   Collaboration are subject to the decisions of an Executive Council
   composed of one representative from each of the member groups. Each
   member group shall determine its own representative and may change its
   representative at will. The Executive Council shall adopt its own
   procedures. It may meet regularly or irregularly, face-to-face or via
   any kind of communication. Meetings shall be open to all individuals in
   all Member groups. The Executive Council shall identify the functions
   and membership of working groups and assign responsibilities to member
   groups. It may appoint an External Relations Committee. It may form
   subsidiary bodies for any purpose. Legal and Financial Agreements
   Majorana Members are not empowered to make any legal or financial
   proposals, offers or agreements on behalf of the Collaboration.
   Nonetheless, individuals in Member groups, or other organizations to
   which they belong, will be encouraged by the Executive Council to enter
   into independent agreements when these are judged beneficial to
   Majorana goals. Examples include proposals for funding, procurements,
   personnel actions, non-disclosure agreements, contracts, and
   subcontracts, without which the Collaboration cannot fulfill its
   purpose. 2 External Relations An External Relations Committee,
   appointed by the Executive Council, shall promote and regulate external
   Majorana communications. Any person purporting to speak for the
   Collaboration or acting in a way that is likely to be construed as
   representing the Collaboration, shall do so only following approval of
   the Committee. Similarly, Majorana proposals, papers or talks shall be
   shared outside of the collaboration only following approval of the
   Committee. In particular, individuals in Member groups agree that all
   knowledge of Majorana data, interpretations, or other significant
   results shall be confined within the Collaboration until the Committee
   reviews and approves release of the information. The members of
   External Relations Committee serve at the pleasure of the Executive
   Council. Internal Communications Each member group shall identify at
   least one point of contact for communications within the Collaboration.
   Communications within a Member group are the responsibility of that
   group. Individuals in member groups are encouraged to share information
   with all in the Collaboration who may be interested. Majorana
   equipment, software, and experimental design information shall normally
   be available to all Members. In exceptional cases, the parent
   organization of a Member group may choose to protect intellectual
   property developed in the course of the work, or may have to enter into
   a nondisclosure agreement with an organization outside of the
   collaboration in order to obtain essential information. Members are
   encouraged to include all other Member groups in such agreements where
   practical. If such inclusion is not possible, the Executive Council
   shall be informed before executing an agreement that prohibits sharing
   information throughout the collaboration. All Majorana data shall
   normally be available to all Members. If any law, contract, or other
   constraint prevents a Member from sharing any data, the situation will
   be explained to the Executive Council. Property Ownership and Control
   The Majorana Collaboration will not own any equipment, materials, or
   other property, including intellectual property (e.g. patents,
   proprietary techniques or information). Typically organizations that
   employ or sponsor Members will own the property used. Use of property
   to the benefit of the Collaboration shall not be interpreted to mean
   that the Member supplying that property relinquishes control over it or
   responsibility for it. It is recognized that owners or custodians may
   legally withdraw or replace at will any property in use by the
   collaboration; however, Members are strongly encouraged to allow no
   substantive property replacements or withdrawals without prior approval
   by the Executive Council. In joining the Collaboration, each Member
   acknowledges that physical property acquired with the specific support
   of the Majorana 3 Collaboration must be devoted to Majorana use until
   the Executive Committee agrees it is no longer needed, even if a Member
   providing property withdraws from the collaboration. Members may allow
   other property (acquired without the influence of or reference to
   Majorana) to be used by the Collaboration without implying a permanent
   or long-term commitment. Rules Beyond principles outlined in the
   Charter, from time to time the Executive Council may decide upon rules,
   bylaws, or other procedures to guide the Collaboration. Electronic or
   other copies of these decisions shall be distributed to all Member
   groups, including those not represented in the decision. Officers The
   Executive Council shall appoint all Majorana spokespersons or officers,
   and each shall serve at the pleasure of the Executive Council.
   Spokespersons shall sit on the Executive Council, but not change the
   one-vote per institution rule. Amendments This Charter may be amended
   at any time if at least two thirds of all of the Member groups in the
   Collaboration agree on the amendment. 4 Majorana Collaboration
   Executive Council Rules & Procedures Adopted August 15, 2001 Meetings
   The time, place, and primary purpose of each Executive Council meeting
   shall be announced to all Member-group points of contact at least two
   days in advance of the meeting. Any Member group unable to send a
   representative to a meeting may participate by telephone. Meetings may
   take place using any convenient means of communication that does not
   exclude any Member group wishing to be represented. Voting Executive
   Council decisions are not final until approved by at least half of the
   council membership, whether represented at the time of the vote or not.
   There is one vote per member institution. Charter amendments require
   two-thirds vote. The concept of a quorum shall have no meaning unless
   the Council is acting as an External Relations Committee. Collaboration
   Membership No Member shall invite a new group to become a Member of the
   Majorana Collaboration without prior Executive Council approval. Before
   asking the Council for a decision on the proposed invitation, the
   proponent must provide the name of the proposed group's parent
   organization, a provisional point of contact for the group, a
   justification for the invitation, and any other information the Council
   should have to make a reasoned decision. The invitation may be approved
   by a simple majority of the Council. There should be an expectation
   that specific contributions by the proposed Member are necessary for
   Majorana success, and that these contributions will outweigh any
   negative aspects. Negative aspects may include increasing the size of
   the Collaboration (and therefore of the Executive Council) and
   drawbacks that may be specific to the group proposed for membership.
   For example, if a commercial group important to the Collaboration
   becomes a Member, other Members may be constrained from using that
   vendor by procurement rules of their parent organizations. The Charter
   provides for removal of a Member for any reason. Potential reasons
   include resignation, inactivity, or activity contrary to the Charter.
   Other reasons may appear. 5 External Relations Committee The Executive
   Council may act as an External Relations Committee at any time. It may
   also appoint one or more subsidiary bodies to act in that capacity.
   Consistent with the Charter, the Executive Council shall formulate all
   the rules needed to guide External Relations Committees. The Executive
   Council may decide to delegate approval for some types of
   communications to a Committee and to require approval of the full
   Council for other types. The External Relations Committee will
   encourage the distribution of information about the Majorana project to
   sponsors, the scientific community and the public. Consistent with
   assurances of accuracy and other concerns, the Committee will encourage
   multiple institutions and individuals to seek invitations to speak for
   the collaboration. Proposals, press releases, abstracts, manuscripts,
   and presentation materials must be submitted for External Relations
   Committee approval, as described in the Charter. These must be
   complete, including any title, list of authors, references, or other
   material proposed for release. The target agency, journal, meeting or
   other audience shall be identified. Committee approval shall be sought
   anew for each new addressee or audience unless prior blanket approval
   has been granted. The Committee must be given ample time for review and
   decision prior to any external submission deadline. The likelihood that
   the Committee will request revisions should be factored into estimates
   of the time required for the review and approval. Authorship of
   articles or other communications pertaining to the primary purpose of
   the Collaboration is expected to include the full Collaboration
   membership. Authorship of articles or other communications pertaining
   to techniques, applications, or analyses of general applicability or
   ancillary to the primary purpose of the Collaboration is expected to
   include those members responsible for the work. Note this does not
   contradict the Charter requirement of Committee approval prior to the
   release of all communications. Revision of Rules A simple majority of
   the Executive Council may revise these Rules and Procedures in any way
   consistent with the Charter at any meeting of the Council. 6
