http://www.rma.usda.gov/news/r-and-d/2002/pdf/rd02-004.pdf

   United States Department of Agriculture Farm and Foreign Agricultural
   Services Risk Management Agency January 10, 2002 INFORMATIONAL
   MEMORANDUM: R&D-02-004 TO: Lawn Seed Producer Groups All Risk
   Management Agency Field Offices All Reinsured Companies FROM: Tim B.
   Witt /s/ Tim B. Witt Deputy Administrator SUBJECT: Request for Input
   from Lawn Seed Producer Groups BACKGROUND: The Risk Management Agency
   (RMA) intends to obtain input from producer groups before entering into
   contracts for research and development to increase participation in
   areas or for agricultural commodities that may be underserved by the
   Federal crop insurance program. RMA believes this input is critical in
   determining the need and direction of research and potential
   development. ACTION: RMA requests input from groups or individuals
   representing lawn seed producers so that their needs, concerns, and
   other input may be considered before it enters into a contract for the
   research and possible development of risk management strategies or
   products for producers of this commodity. Of particular interest is any
   input that would help RMA determine the extent to which producers want
   RMA to pursue such research and potential development of risk
   management strategies or products. RMA is also interested in receiving
   specific suggestions and concerns regarding the structure, scope, and
   limitations producers and producer groups want to be considered for
   such strategies or products. Anyone who is aware of insurance
   protection that is generally available from private companies to cover
   the risks that would likely be covered by recommended risk management
   strategies or products, is encouraged to advise RMA accordingly as
   indicated below. 6501 Beacon Drive $ Kansas City, MO 64133 The Risk
   Management Agency Administers and Oversees All Programs Authorized
   Under the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation An Equal Opportunity
   Employer INFORMATIONAL MEMORANDUM: R&D-01-004 2 Please provide your
   input to Terrence Katzer by February 8, 2002, to assure its
   consideration. Mr. Katzer may be reached by e-mail at
   "Terrence.Katzer@rm.fcic.usda.gov," by fax at (816) 926-7343, or at the
   following postal address: Attention: Terrence Katzer Research and
   Evaluation Division Risk Management Agency P. O. Box 419293, Stop 0813
   Kansas City, Missouri 64141-6293 Listed below are organizations that
   are being provided this Informational Memorandum. Anyone who is aware
   of other persons or organizations representing lawn seed producers is
   encouraged to provide a copy of this Informational Memorandum to them
   and/or to advise Mr. Katzer how to contact them. American Seed Trade
   Association American Society of Agronomy International Turfgrass
   Society National Turfgrass Evaluation Program Turfgrass Producers
   International DISPOSAL DATE: This Informational Memorandum is effective
   until the disposal date, March 31, 2002.
