http://www.ut.nrcs.usda.gov/programsnservices/programs.htm


   BACKYARD CONSERVATION

   BUTTON TO NRCS HOMEPAGE

                                                USDA NRCS UTAH LOGO BANNER

   BUTTON TO WHAT'S NEW
   BUTTON TO PROGRAMS AND SERVICES
   BUTTON TO TECHNICAL INFORMATION PAGE
   BUTTON TO EMPLOYEE LINKS PAGE
   BUTTON TO QUALITY COUNCIL PAGE
   BUTTON TO KIDS LINKS PAGE
   BUTTON TO NATIONAL NRCS HOMEPAGE

   The Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) provides assistance
   to land users, communities, units of state and local government, and
   other Federal agencies in planning and implementing conservation
   systems.  The purposes of the conservation systems are to reduce
   erosion, improve soil and water quality, improve and conserve wetlands,
   enhance fish and wildlife habitat, improve air quality, improve pasture
   and range condition, reduce upstream flooding and improve woodlands.
   NRCS and its Partnering Agencies administer a broad range of programs
   to assist farmers, ranchers, and other landowners in conserving natural
   resources. These programs provide incentives such as technical and
   cost-sharing assistance to install conservation practices
   Click on any of the programs below for a summary of key provisions,
   eligibility requirements, and application procedures.

                  Conservation Programs that Work in Utah:
                           (In alphabetical order)

     BLUE WATER DROPLET    Agricultural Management Assistance (AMA)
     MOUNTAIN SCENE OF GRAZING SHEEP

     BLUE WATER DROPLET    Agriculture Resource Development Loan (ARDL)

     BLUE WATER DROPLET    Conservation of Private Grazing Land

     BLUE WATER DROPLET    Colorado River Salinity Control Program
     (CRSCP)

     BLUE WATER DROPLET    Conservation Reserve Program (CRP)

     BLUE WATER DROPLET    Environmental Quality Incentives Program
     (EQIP)

     BLUE WATER DROPLET    Emergency Watershed Protection Program (EWP)

     BLUE WATER DROPLET    Hands-On Habitat (Wildlife Habitat
     Authorization)

     BLUE WATER DROPLET    Nonpoint Source Implementation Grants, Section
     319 (319 Program)

     BLUE WATER DROPLET    Partners for Fish and Wildlife

     BLUE WATER DROPLET    Resource Conservation and Development Program
     (RC&D)

     BLUE WATER DROPLET    Small Watershed Program (PL-566)

     BLUE WATER DROPLET    Utah Stewardship Incentive Program

     BLUE WATER DROPLET    Water Conservation Field Services Program

     BLUE WATER DROPLET    Wetlands Protection Development Grants,
     Section 104(b)

     BLUE WATER DROPLET    Wetlands Reserve Program (WRP)

     BLUE WATER DROPLET    Wildlife Habitat Incentives Program (WHIP)

   Agriculture Resource Development Loan (ARDL):

   The Utah ARDL program is a $27 million revolving fund that provides low
   interest (3 percent) loans for projects with a conservation benefit.
   The goal of this state program is to help landowners conserve soil and
   water, increase yields, maintain and improve water quality, conserve
   and improve wildlife habitat, prevent flooding, develop on-farm energy
   projects and mitigate damages caused by natural disasters.  A one-time
   4 percent administrative fee is charged.  Contact:    Your local USDA
   Service Center, Koy Page, ARDL/UDAF, or Utah Dept. of Agriculture &
   Food (801) 538-7176.

   1996 FARM BILL THUMBNAIL PRINT Conservation of Private Grazing Land

      This new authorization provides authority and emphasis for a voluntary
      program within USDA to conserve and enhance natural resources on
      non-federal grazing lands. It will provide technical, educational, and
      related assistance to owners of private grazing lands including
      rangeland, pasture land, grazed forest land, and hay land. This
      assistance will offer opportunities for:
        * Better grazing land management;
        * Protecting soil from erosion;
        * Using more energy-efficient ways to produce food and fiber;
        * Conserving water;
        * Providing habitat for wildlife;
        * Sustaining forage and grazing plants;
        * Using plants to sequester greenhouse gases and to increase organic
          content in soils; and,
        * Using grazing lands as a source of biomass energy and raw materials
          for industrial products.

      To Get Assistance:  For further information and assistance, click on
      one of the options below or contact your local  USDA Service Center,
      or  Larry Ellicott, Roger Banner at (435) 797-2472.

   1996 FARM BILL THUMBNAIL PRINT Conservation Reserve Program

      CRP is a voluntary program which offers financial incentives to private
      landowners to protect highly erodible and environmentally sensitive
      cropland by planting trees, grass, and other long-term cover.
      Additional goals are to reduce sedimentation, improve water quality,
      foster wildlife habitat, provide income support for farmers, and to
      protect the Nation's long-term capacity to produce food and fiber. The
      CRP program has been revised and extended through 2002.

      Key Provisions:
        * Uses an offer selection system based on an environmental benefits
          index (EBI), which quantifies potential enhancements to a wide
          range of natural and cultural resources.
        * Requires a contract term of between 10 and 15 years (new
          enrollments can replace expired or terminated contracts);
        * Participants receive annual per-acre rental payments plus
          cost-share assistance;
        * Provides up to 50 per cent of the costs of installing approved
          conservation practices;

      Eligibility: The participant must have owned the land for at least one
      year, unless it was inherited or it can be shown that it was not
      acquired for the purpose of enrolling it in the program. The land
      itself must:
        * Be physically and legally capable of agricultural production;
        * Have been planted in an agricultural commodity in two of the five
          most recent crop years. or;
        * Be marginal pasture land that is either:
             + certain acreage enrolled in the Water Bank Program, or;
             + suitable for use as a riparian buffer to be planted in trees.
          Map of CRP acreage in Utah as of January 2000.
          "Lessons Learned from Fifteen Years of CRP in Utah"

      How to Apply: Sign-up is continuous for riparian buffer strips. For the
      rest of the program there are regularly scheduled sign-up windows or
      periods after which applications are ranked and selected. For further
      information or to obtain an application form, contact your local USDA
      Service Center or call Richard Mickelson, Program Manager @
      (801)524-4538.
   Colorado River Salinity Control Program (CRSCP):

   Key Provisions:  Provides cost share and some technical assistance to
   apply salinity control practices and wildlife habitat replacement.
   Program lead by Bureau of Reclamation, Natural Resources Conservation
   Service, and Colorado River Salinity Control Program Forum through
   State Agriculture Department and Soil Conservation Districts.  Federal
   funding is provided through earmarks in EQIP.

   Eligibility:  Land contributing to salinity in the Colorado River
   system.

   How to Apply:  Bureau of Reclamation asks for proposals and the other
   agencies advertise sign ups.  Contact USDA Service Centers in Price,
   Castle Dale, Vernal, and Roosevelt.  Contact Bureau of Reclamation in
   Provo or Salt Lake; Lee Baxter (801) 379-1174, David Truman (801)
   524-3753.  Contact in Roosevelt: Brett Prevedel (435) 722-4621; Price -
   Dale Woodbury (435) 637-0041.

   1996 FARM BILL THUMBNAIL PRINT Environmental Quality Incentives Program
                                  (EQIP)

      EQIP is a new program designed to assist farmers facing serious threats
      to soil, water, and related natural resources. It provides
      technical,financial, and educational assistance primarily within
      locally identified priority areas where significant natural resources
      concerns have been identified. Contracts are offered that provide
      financial incentives for conservation practices such as erosion
      control, manure management systems, pest management, and others which
      will help to improve and maintain the health of natural resources.

      Key Provisions:  Provides technical assistance, cost-sharing and
      incentive payments, and educational assistance to cooperators who enter
      into conservation contracts of five to ten year terms;
        * Cooperators are eligible for up to 75% of project costs; $10,000 in
          any fiscal year; or $50,000 over the life of the contract;
        * Ranks applications using a numerical points system designed to
          identify and select proposals that offer the greatest environmental
          benefits per program dollar;
        * Authorizes the USDA to request assistance of state agencies as well
          as other governmental and private resources to aid in providing
          technical assistance for the development and implementation of
          structural practices;
        * Fifty percent of program funding is dedicated to livestock-related
          conservation;
        * Up to 35% may be spent outside of established priority areas.

      Eligibility:
        * Participation is limited to persons who are engaged in livestock or
          agricultural production;
        * Enrolled lands must be cropland, rangeland, forestland, or other
          farm or ranch lands where the program is delivered;

      How To Apply:  Applications are accepted throughout the year and are
      ranked and selected during designated periods. For further information
      or to obtain an application form, contact your local USDA Service
      Center or Karl Kler, Program Manager at (801)524-4565.

   1996 FARM BILL THUMBNAIL PRINT Emergency Watershed Protection program
                                  (EWP)

      EWP was passed by Congress to relieve imminent threats to life and
      property caused by storms, flooding, and erosion. It is designed to
      assist groups of people with a common problem, but individuals who are
      sponsored by a local unit of government may also qualify.  Click here
      to go to the West Region's EWP Home Page.

      What is EWP?

      Key Provisions:
        * Provides technical and cost-sharing assistance up to 75% of project
          costs;
        * Provides a case-by-case investigation of eligible projects to
          develop remedial measures;
        * Assistance is not limited to prescribed measures, but typically
          involves such things as:
             + Debris removal from stream channels, road culverts, and bridge
               abutments;
             + Reshaping and protection of eroding streambanks;
             + Repair of damaged drainage facilities;
             + Repair of levees and structures;
             + Reseeding of damaged areas.
        * Purchasing flood plain easements

      Eligibility:  EWP protects homes, businesses, highways, public
      facilities, and a wide variety of other property damaged or threatened
      by natural disasters or emergencies. Public and private landowners are
      eligible but they must be represented by a sponsoring local unit of
      government such as a city, county, or watershed authority. EWP funds
      cannot be used to:
        * Solve pre-existing problems or raise the level of protection that
          existed prior to the disaster;
        * Support operation or maintenance work, or repair transportation
          facilities or utilities;
        * Adversely affect downstream water rights or install measures not
          essential to hazard reduction;
        * Perform work on measures installed by another Federal agency.

      How to Apply:  If you believe your area might qualify for assistance,
      contact your city or county flood control district or emergency service
      authority. These units of government can sponsor the assistance by
      sending a letter to NRCS State Headquarters providing the nature,
      location, and scope of the problem for which assistance is requested.
      Additional information and assistance can be obtained by contacting
      your local USDA Service Center, or Lamont Robbins, State Conservation
      Engineer at (801) 524-4559.
   Hands-On Habitat (Wildlife Habitat Authorization):

   The Wildlife Habitat Authorization is a fee charged to license or
   permit buyers beginning January 1, 1996.     At the request of the
   Division of Wildlife Resources, the fee was enacted by the 1995
   Legislature to generate money to enhance, acquire, preserve, protect
   and manage fish and wildlife habitat in Utah and to improve hunting and
   fishing access.

   Key Provisions:  This program is an opportunity and commitment to
   secure wildlife and fisheries habitat, and access to it, for present
   and future generations.  The Wildlife Habitat Authorization is not a
   license to hunt or fish.  Any landowner, individual or agency in Utah
   can apply for funds to improve wildlife and fishery habitat.

   Habitat improvement on private land may increase breeding populations
   that disperse and occupy adjacent public lands.  In some cases, private
   land provides critical seasonal habitat for wildlife that must be
   protected to maintain those wildlife populations.

   How to Apply:  To apply for Wildlife Habitat Authorization funds
   contact the Habitat manager at your DWR regional office:
   Dwight Bunnell, Salt Lake area, (801) 538-4766
   Rick Larson, Northeastern Region, Vernal, (435) 789-3103
   Rory Reynolds, Northern Region, Ogden, (801) 479-5143
   John Fairchild, Central Region, Springville, (801) 489-5678
   Bruce BoneBrake, Southern Region, Cedar City, (435) 586-2455
   Bill Bates, Southeastern Region, Price, (435) 637-3310
   Nonpoint Source Implementation Grants, Section 319 (319 Program):

   The 319 Program provides formula grants to the states to implement
   nonpoint source projects and programs in accordance with Section 319 of
   the Clean Water Act.   Formula grants are awarded to a lead agency in
   each state.  States and local organizations are required to provide 40
   percent of the total project or program cost.   This EPA program is
   administered by the Utah Department of Environmental Quality.
   Contact:  Roy Gunnell, Dept. of Environmental Quality, (801) 538-6146;
   or George Hopkin Department of Agriculture & Food, (801) 538-7177.
   Partners for Fish and Wildlife:

   Partners for Fish and Wildlife provides cost-share dollars to farmers
   and ranchers interested in increasing production while improving
   wildlife habitat.  This private lands program provides funding through
   cost-share agreements for 10-30 years for both uplands and wetlands.
   Projects can include fencing, water development, re-establishment of
   riparian habitat, installation of water control structures and others.
   Partners for Fish and Wildlife is administered by U.S. Fish and
   Wildlife Service.  Contact Karl Fleming, US Fish and Wildlife Service
   (435) 723-5887, Ext. 22.

   1996 FARM BILL THUMBNAIL PRINT Resource Conservation and Development
                                  Program (RC&D)

      The RC&D program, created by the Food and Agriculture Act of 1962, is a
      locally sponsored program. It is based on the assumption that local
      citizens, with coordinated assistance provided through USDA, are best
      able to develop and carry out action-oriented plans for the social,
      economic, and environmental betterment of their communities.

      Key Purposes:
        * To accelerate the conservation, development, and utilization of
          natural resources;
        * To improve the general level of economic activity;
        * To enhance the environment and standard of living in authorized
          RC&D areas, and;
        * To handle multi-county problems which involve more than one unit of
          government.

      Eligible Projects:  Potential projects must meet the established
      objectives in the local RC&D Council's Area Plan. These objectives
      usually cover a wide variety of activities including land conservation,
      community development, water management, tourism, historic
      preservation, recreation, and many other activities. Almost any
      development or conservation project with may be assisted by the RC&D
      program. A local RC&D sponsor must present proposals for RC&D projects
      to the Council for adoption. Once a project is adopted by the Council,
      RC&D program assistance is available to accelerate the completion of
      the project acitivity.

      For Further Assistance:  For general program information within Utah,
      contact Gary Jann.  For specific local information there are seven
      authorized RC&D areas in Utah, administered by RC&D Council offices
      located at Logan, Murray, Oakley, Huntington, Roosevelt, Richfield, and
      Cedar City.  Click on the office location nearest you for addresses,
      telephone numbers, email addresses, and other contact information.
   Small Watershed Program (PL-566)

   The small watershed program provides both technical and financial
   (project implementation) assistance to help urban and rural communities
   protect, improve, and develop water and land resources in watersheds of
   up to 250,000 acres (approximately 390 square miles). Projects are
   undertaken at the request of local sponsors who seek assistance in
   addressing resource issues related to:
     * flood prevention (including wetland and flood plain easements);
     * agricultural water management (conservation, development, use and
       disposal);
     * fish and wildlife development;
     * public recreation (water resource improvement and basic
       facilities);
     * ground water recharge;
     * water quality management;
     * conservation and proper use of land (watershed protection)

   Coordination with appropriate county, state, and tribal agencies is
   necessary. Sponsors and other beneficiaries are expected to provide a
   share of costs, depending
   on the type of project, and are responsible for operation and
   maintenance of any installed improvements.

   How it Works:   Small watershed projects are initiated by submitting a
   request for assistance through the local Conservation District. NRCS
   then conducts a field reconnaissance to assess the type and extent of
   the water resource issues. If the project appears viable (economically,
   environmentally and socially), the sponsors are encouraged to submit a
   formal application for assistance. Watershed plans, when complete, are
   designed to achieve specific project goals, and are usually implemented
   with federal financial assistance.

   For Further Information: Contact your local USDA Service Center, or
   Karl Kler, State Planning Coordinator at (801) 524-4565.
   Utah Stewardship Incentive Program:

   The Stewardship Incentive Program provides technical and financial
   assistance to encourage non-industrial private forest landowners to
   keep their lands and natural resources productive and healthy.
   Qualifying land includes rural lands with existing tree cover or land
   suitable for growing trees and which is owned by a private individual,
   group, association, corporation, Indian tribe, or other legal private
   entity.   Eligible landowners must have an approved Forest Stewardship
   Plan and own 1,000 or fewer acres of qualifying land.  The program is
   administered by the Utah Division of Forestry, Fire and State Lands.
   Contact:  Your local Forestry, Fire & State Lands office, UACD zone
   coordinator, or David Schen, Utah Forestry, Fire & State Lands (801)
   538-5504.
   Water Conservation Field Services Program:

   The Water Conservation Field Services Program provides financial
   assistance for water conservation activities in the form of grants or
   cost-shared funding.  The program is aimed at funding written water
   management and conservation plans, new or unfamiliar water management
   technologies and practices, and promotion of good water use practices
   and principles.  The program is administered by the Bureau of
   Reclamation.  Contact:  Janice Richardson, US Bureau of Reclamation
   (801) 379-1069.
   Wetlands Protection Development Grants, Section 104(b)(3):

   The EPA Wetlands Protection Development Grants program provides
   financial assistance to states, federally recognized Indian tribes and
   local governments to support wetlands development or augmentation and
   enhancement of existing programs.  Project grants are used to fund
   individual projects.  States or tribes must provide a 25 percent match
   of the total cost of the project.  This EPA program is administered by
   the Utah Governor's Office of Planning and Budget.  Contact:  Nancy
   Keate, Utah Governor's Office of Planning and Budget (801) 538-1548.

   1996 FARM BILL THUMBNAIL PRINT Wetlands Reserve Program (WRP)

      WRP is a voluntary program to restore and protect wetlands on private
      property. It is an opportunity for landowners to receive financial
      incentives to enhance wetlands in exchange for retiring marginal
      agricultural land. Funding for this popular ongoing program has been
      extended through 2002.

      Key Provisions:
        * Allows land owners to choose permanent conservation easements,
          30-year easements, or restoration cost-share agreements, for their
          eligible land;
        * Ranks applications using a numerical points system designed to
          identify and select proposals that offer the greatest environmental
          benefits per program dollar;
        * Provides landowners with 75% to 100% cost-sharing for permanent
          easements, 50 % to 75% for 30-year easements, and 50 % to 75% for
          restoration cost-share agreements;
        * The land owner continues to control access to enrolled land and may
          develop or lease it for compatible uses.

      Eligibility:  Conservation easements require the participant to have
      owned the land for at least one year, unless it was inherited or it can
      be shown that it was not acquired for the purpose of enrolling it in
      the program. Restoration cost-share agreements only require that the
      participant show evidence of ownership. The land itself must be
      restorable and suitable for wildlife benefits. This includes:
        * Farmed Wetlands and wetlands farmed under natural conditions;
        * Prior converted cropland;
        * Farmed wetland pasture;
        * Farmland that has become a wetland as the result of flooding;
        * Rangeland, pasture, or production forestland where the hydrology
          has been significantly Degraded and can be restored;
        * Riparian areas which link protected wetlands;
        * Lands adjacent to protected wetlands that contribute significantly
          to wetland functions and values; and,
        * Previously restored wetlands.

      How to apply:  You may click on one of the options below for additional
      facts or check with your local USDA Service Center, or contact Bob
      Sennett, Program Manager at (801) 524-4566.

   1996 FARM BILL THUMBNAIL PRINT Wildlife Habitat Incentives Program
                                  (WHIP)

      WHIP is a new program that offers cost-share incentives to landowners
      to voluntarily develop and improve wildlife habitat on private lands.
      Participants work with NRCS and their local conservation district to
      develop a wildlife habitat development plan and contract. The plan
      describes the landowner's goals for improving wildlife habitat,
      includes a list of practices and a schedule for installing them, and
      specifies the steps necessary to maintain the new habitat for the life
      of the agreement.

                Wildlife Habitat Incentives Program (WHIP) Web Link

      Key Provisions:
        * Local Work Groups submit proposals for state WHIP plan.
        * Creates a State Technical Committee to help set priorities for
          cost-share measures and habitat development projects;
        * Provides cost-sharing up to $10,000 per contract for developing
          upland wildlife, wetland wildlife, endangered species, fisheries,
          and other wildlife;
        * Ranks applications using a numerical points system designed to
          identify and select proposals that offer the greatest benefits to
          wildlife and related natural resources per program dollar;
        * Agreements must last a minimum of 10 years from the date of
          installation of the conservation practice.

      Eligibility:
        * Participants must own or control the land (there is no minimum
          acreage);
        * Land may not be currently enrolled in the Waterbank Program,
          Conservation Reserve Program, Wetlands Reserve Program, or other
          similar program;
        * Lands used for mitigation can be included in WHIP contracts but are
          ineligible for cost-share funds;
        * Land is ineligible if it is owned by the Federal Government or if
          USDA determines that onsite or offsite conditions would undermine
          or reduce the benefits of habitat development.

      How to apply:  WHIP applications are accepted on a continuous basis.
      For further information or to obtain an application form, contact your
      local USDA Service Center, or contact Bob Sennett, Program Manager at
      (801) 524-4566.

     BLUE WATER DROPLET     Conservation Partners

   ANIMATED LETTER/ENVELOPE FOLDING     Send comments to:     Gary Jann

   GREEN RIBBON BAR
   ARROW BACK TO NRCS HOME PAGE    Return to NRCS Utah Home Page
