http://www.ia.ita.doc.gov/glossary.htm

                              GLOSSARY OF TERMS
                            Updated January 1998

        Glossary of AD Terms for Market and Non-Market Economy Cases

   This glossary is intended to provide parties with a basic understanding
   of many antidumping technical terms. These explanations are not
   regulations or rules with the force of law. As difficult or detailed
   questions arise, the analyst should seek clarification from their
   program manager or supervisor, rather than attempting to derive precise
   guidance from these general explanations.

   Administrative Protective Order

   An administrative protective order is the legal mechanism that controls
   the limited disclosure of business proprietary information to
   representatives of interested parties. The Department authorizes the
   release of proprietary information under administrative protective
   order only when the representatives file a request in which they agree
   to the following four conditions: (a) to use the information only in
   the antidumping proceeding, (b) to secure the information and protect
   it from disclosure to any person not subject to an administrative
   protective order, (c) to report any violation of the terms of the
   protective order, and (d) to acknowledge that they may be subject to
   sanctions if they violate the terms of the order. (Section 777(c) of
   the Act. See also Proprietary Information and Proprietary Treatment.)

   Affiliated Persons

   Affiliated persons (affiliates) include (1) members of a family, (2) an
   officer or director of an organization and that organization, (3)
   partners, (4) employers and their employees, and (5) any person or
   organization directly or indirectly owning, controlling, or holding
   with power to vote, 5 percent or more of the outstanding voting stock
   or shares of any organization and that organization. In addition,
   affiliates include (6) any person who controls any other person and
   that other person, and (7) any two or more persons who directly
   control, are controlled by, or are under common control with, any
   person. "Control" exists where one person or organization is legally or
   operationally in a position to exercise restraint or direction over the
   other person or organization. (Section 771(33) of the Act; section
   351.102(b) and 351.401(f) of the regulations.)

   Antidumping Law

   The United States antidumping laws are set forth in Title VII of the
   Tariff Act of 1930, as amended ("the Act") (19 U.S.C. 1673 et seq.).

   Arms-length Transactions (between affiliates)

   Generally, the Department may use transactions between affiliates as a
   basis for normal value, cost of production, and constructed value only
   if the transactions are at arms length. Arms-length transactions are
   those in which the selling price between the affiliated parties is
   comparable to the selling prices in transactions involving persons who
   are not affiliated. The Department accounts for terms of sale,
   conditions of delivery, and other circumstances related to the sales in
   deciding if the selling prices are comparable. Sales not made at
   arms-length are considered to be outside the ordinary course of trade.

   Certification of Accuracy

   Any person that submits factual information to the Department must
   include with the submission a certification of the completeness and
   accuracy of the factual information. Certifications must be made by a
   knowledgeable official responsible for presentation of the factual
   information and by the party's legal counsel or other representative,
   if any. A sample certification form is included as Appendix V to the
   questionnaire. (Section 782 (b) of the Act and section 351.303 (g) of
   the regulations).

   Circumstances of Sale

   In comparing normal value to export price or constructed export price
   for market economy cases, the Department makes adjustments for certain
   differences in circumstances of sale that exist because the conditions
   or terms of sale in the two markets differ. This adjustment normally is
   limited to differences in direct selling expenses (and assumptions of
   expenses on behalf of the buyer) that the Department does not adjust
   for under other more specific provisions. (Section 773(a)(6)(C)(iii) of
   the Act and 351.410 of the regulations; See also Direct vs. Indirect
   Expenses.) Note that these adjustments are also made for non-market
   economy cases involving constructed export price comparisons.

   Comparison Market

   The comparison market is the home or third-country market from which
   the Department selects the prices used to establish normal values for
   market economy cases. (See also Viability.)

   Constructed Export Price

   (See Export Price and Constructed Export Price.)

   Constructed Export Price Offset

   When it is not possible to base normal value and export price (CEP or
   CEP) on sales at the same level of trade, the law provides, subject to
   certain conditions, for an adjustment to normal value. However, where
   the Department establishes different functions at the different levels
   of trade, but the data available do not form an appropriate basis for
   determining a level of trade adjustment, the law provides for a limited
   adjustment in the form of the "constructed export price offset." This
   adjustment does not apply in export price comparisons, and the
   Department will make the adjustment only when normal value is
   established at a level of trade more remote from the factory than the
   level of trade of the constructed export price. The offset is a
   deduction from normal value in the amount of indirect selling expenses
   incurred in the comparison market. The amount of this deduction may not
   exceed (i.e., it is "capped" by) the amount of indirect selling
   expenses deducted in calculating constructed export price. (Section
   773(a)(7)(B) of the Act and section 351.412(f) of the regulations; see
   also Level of Trade, Level of Trade Adjustment.)

   Constructed Value

   For market economy cases, when there are no sales of the foreign like
   product in the comparison market suitable for matching to the subject
   merchandise (including, for example, when the Department disregards
   sales because they are below the cost of production), the Department
   uses constructed value as the basis for normal value. The constructed
   value is the sum of (1) the cost of materials and fabrication of the
   subject merchandise, (2) selling, general, and administrative expenses
   and profit of the foreign like product in the comparison market, and
   (3) the cost of packing for exportation to the United States.

   (Section 773(e) of the Act.)

   Contemporaneous Sales

   In investigations, the Department normally compares average export
   prices (or constructed export prices) to average normal values. The
   averages normally are based on sales made over the course of the period
   of investigation. In administrative reviews of existing antidumping
   orders, on the other hand, the Department normally compares the export
   price (or constructed export price) of an individual U.S. sale to an
   average normal value for a "contemporaneous month."

   The preferred month is the month in which the particular U.S. sale was
   made. If, during the preferred month, there are no sales in the
   comparison market of a foreign like product that is identical to the
   subject merchandise, the Department will then employ a six-month window
   for the selection of contemporaneous sales. For each U.S. sale, the
   Department will calculate an average price for sales of identical
   merchandise in the most recent of the three months prior to the month
   of the U.S. sale. If there are no such sales, the Department will use
   sales of identical merchandise in the earlier of the two months
   following the month of the U.S. sale. If there are no sales of
   identical merchandise in any of these months, the Department will apply
   the same progression to sales of similar merchandise.

   Cost of Manufacture

   The cost of manufacture is the sum of material, fabrication and other
   processing costs incurred to produce the products under investigation.
   (See also Cost of Production.)

   Cost of Production

   For market economy cases, cost of production means the cost of
   producing the foreign like product. The cost of production is the sum
   of (1) material, fabrication, and other processing costs, (2) selling,
   general, and administrative expenses, and (3) the cost of containers
   and other packing expenses. The Department may disregard comparison
   market sales in calculating normal value if they are made at prices
   which are less than the cost of production. The Department will
   disregard all sales below cost if made: (A) within an extended period
   of time (normally one year) in substantial quantities ( at least 20
   percent of the volume of the product examined is sold below cost or the
   weighted-average unit price is below the weighted-average cost for the
   period examined); and (B) at prices that do not permit recovery of
   costs within a reasonable period of time (i.e., the price is less than
   the weighted-average cost of production for the whole period examined).
   Although the Department initiates any cost of production inquiries for
   all sales of the foreign like product, this determination is made on a
   product-specific basis. (Section 773(b) of the Act, and sections
   351.406 and 351.407 of the regulations.) Refer to IA Policy Bulletin
   94.1 for initiation standards for COP inquiries.

   Credit Expense

   Credit expense is a type of expense for which the Department frequently
   makes circumstances -of-sale adjustments. It is the interest expense
   incurred (or interest revenue foregone) between shipment of merchandise
   to a customer and receipt of payment from the customer. The Department
   normally imputes the expense by applying a firm's annual short-term
   borrowing rate in the currency of the transaction, prorated by the
   number of days between shipment and payment, to the unit price. If
   actual payment dates are not kept in a way that makes them accessible,
   the calculation may be based on the average of the number of days that
   accounts receivable remain outstanding. (See also Imputed Expenses.)

   Date of Sale

   Because the Department attempts to compare sales made at the same time,
   establishing the date of sale is an important part of the dumping
   analysis. The Department normally uses the date of invoice as recorded
   in the seller's records kept in the ordinary course of business.
   However, the Department may use another date if it better reflects the
   date on which the material terms of the sale were established. This is
   normal for long term contracts. In other words, the date of the invoice
   is the presumptive date of sale, although this presumption may be
   rebutted. Where invoices do not exist, the Department will examine the
   respondent's records to identify the appropriate date of sale. (Section
   351.401 of the regulations).

   Difference in Merchandise Adjustments

   For market economy cases, when normal value is based on sales in the
   comparison market of a product which is similar, but not identical, to
   the product sold in the United States, the Department may adjust normal
   value to account for differences in the variable costs of producing the
   two products. Generally, the adjustment is limited to differences in
   the costs of materials, labor and variable production costs that are
   attributable to physical differences in the merchandise. The Department
   will not adjust for differences in fixed overhead administrative
   expenses, or profit. (Section 351.411 of the regulations).

   Direct vs. Indirect Expenses

   In calculating and adjusting normal value, the Department treats
   selling expenses differently depending on whether they are direct
   expenses or indirect expenses. For instance, circumstances-of-sale
   adjustments normally involve only direct expenses (and assumptions of
   expenses on behalf of the buyer, see below) while the constructed
   export price offset involves indirect expenses.

   Direct expenses generally must be (1) variable and (2) traceable in a
   company's financial records to sales of the merchandise under
   investigation.

   1. Variable vs. fixed expenses: Direct expenses are typically variable
   expenses that are incurred as a direct and unavoidable consequence of
   the sale (i.e., in the absence of the sale these expenses would not be
   incurred). Indirect expenses are fixed expenses that are incurred
   whether or not a sale is made.

   The same expense may be classified as fixed or variable depending on
   how the expense is incurred. For example, if an exporter pays an
   unaffiliated contractor to perform a service, this fee would normally
   be considered variable and treated as a direct expense (provided that
   condition 2, below, is also satisfied). However, if the exporter
   provides the service through a salaried employee, the fixed salary
   expense will be treated as an indirect expense.

   2. Tying of the expense to sales of the merchandise under
   investigation: Selling expenses must be reasonably traceable to sales
   of the merchandise under investigation to qualify as direct selling
   expenses. However, a fixed expense remains indirect even if allocable
   to the merchandise under investigation

   Common examples of direct selling expenses include credit expenses,
   commissions, and the variable portions of guarantees, warranty,
   technical assistance, and servicing expenses. Common examples of
   indirect selling expenses include inventory carrying costs, salesmen's
   salaries, and product liability insurance. The Department also
   classifies the fixed portion of expenses, such as salaries for
   employees who perform technical services or warranty repairs, as
   indirect expenses.

   The Department treats assumptions of a customer's expenses as if they
   were direct expenses, provided they are attributable to a later sale of
   the merchandise by the customer. For example, the Department considers
   expenses incurred for advertising aimed at retailers to be assumptions
   when the exporter is selling to wholesalers. (Section 351.404(d) of the
   regulations).

   Discounts

   A discount is a reduction to the gross price that a buyer is charged
   for goods. Although the discount need not be stated on the invoice, the
   buyer remits to the seller the face amount of the invoice, less
   discounts. Common types of discounts include early payment discounts,
   quantity discounts, and loyalty discounts.

   Dumping

   Dumping occurs when imported merchandise is sold in, or for export to,
   the United States at less than the normal value of the merchandise. The
   dumping margin is the amount by which the normal value exceeds the
   export price or constructed export price of the subject merchandise.
   The weighted-average dumping margin is the sum of the dumping margins
   divided by the sum of the export prices and constructed export prices.

   Export Price and Constructed Export Price

   Export price and constructed export price refer to the two methods of
   calculating prices for merchandise imported into the United States. The
   Department compares these prices to normal values to determine whether
   goods are dumped. Both export price and constructed export price are
   calculated using the price at which the subject merchandise is first
   sold to a person not affiliated with the foreign producer or exporter
   (the "starting price").

   Generally, a U.S. sale is calculated as an export price sale when the
   first sale to an unaffiliated person occurs before the goods are
   imported into the United States. Generally, a U.S. sale is calculated
   as a constructed export price sale when the first sale to an
   unaffiliated person occurs after importation. However, if the first
   sale to the unaffiliated person is made by a person in the United
   States affiliated with the foreign exporter, constructed export price
   applies even if the sale occurs before importation, unless the U.S.
   affiliate performs only clerical functions in connection with the sale.

   The Department makes adjustments to the price to the first unaffiliated
   customer in calculating the export price or constructed export price.
   For both export price and constructed export price the Department adds
   packing charges, if not already included in the price, rebated import
   duties, and, if applicable, certain countervailing duties (not
   applicable for non-market economy cases). Also for both, the Department
   deducts transportation costs and export taxes or duties (not applicable
   for non-market economy cases). No other adjustments are made in
   calculating export price. However, in calculating the constructed
   export price, the Department also deducts selling commissions and other
   expenses incurred in selling the subject merchandise in the United
   States, the cost of any further manufacture or assembly performed in
   the United States, and a profit attributable to the U.S. sale. (Section
   772 of the Act. and section 351.401 and 351.402 (b) of the regulations)

   Factors of Production

   For nonmarket economy countries, the normal methodology for calculating
   normal value is not appropriate. Instead, the Department constructs a
   normal value using the nonmarket economy producer's factors of
   production. The factors of production include, but are not limited to,
   (1) the hours of labor required to produce the merchandise, (2) the
   quantities of raw materials employed, (3) the amounts of energy and
   other utilities consumed, and (4) representative capital costs,
   including depreciation. These factors of production are then valued in
   a market economy country that is at a level of economic development
   comparable to that of the nonmarket economy country and is a
   significant producer of the subject merchandise or comparable
   merchandise. (Section 773(c)(3) of the Act.)

   Facts Available

   The Department seeks to make its antidumping determinations on the
   basis of responses to its antidumping questionnaires. However, for a
   variety of reasons, the data needed to make such determinations may be
   unavailable or unusable on the record of the case. In such instances,
   the law requires the Department to makes its determinations on the
   basis of "the facts otherwise available" (more commonly referred to as
   "the facts available"). The Department also must use the facts
   available where an interested party or any other person: (1) withholds
   information requested by the Department; (2) fails to provide requested
   information by the requested date or in the form and manner requested;
   (3) significantly impedes an antidumping proceeding; or (4) provides
   information that cannot be verified.

   In selecting the information to use as the facts available, the law
   authorizes the Department to make an inference which is adverse to an
   interested party if the Department finds that party failed to cooperate
   by not acting to the best of its ability to comply with a request for
   information. However, the law also provides that when the Department
   relies on secondary information (information derived from the petition,
   or the dumping rate determined in a prior segment of a proceeding
   rather than on information obtained in the course of an antidumping
   proceeding the Department must, to the extent practicable, corroborate
   that information from independent sources that are reasonably at the
   Department's disposal. Corroborated information is information
   considered reliable and relevant. Final calculated rates from prior
   segments need not be corroborated as their reliability and relevance
   has already been established in the prior segment.

   The Department will consider using submitted information that does not
   meet all of the Department's requirements if: (1) the information is
   submitted within applicable deadlines; (2) the information can be
   verified; (3) the information is not so incomplete that it cannot serve
   as a reliable basis for a determination; (4) the party establishes that
   it acted to the best of its ability; and (5) the Department can use the
   information without undue difficulties. Finally, if an interested party
   promptly informs the Department of difficulties it is having in
   responding to a request for information, the Department will consider
   modifying its request to the extent necessary to avoid imposing an
   unreasonable burden on the party. (Sections 776 and 782(c)-(e) of the
   Act. and section 351.308 of the regulations.)

   Foreign Like Product

   The term "foreign like product" refers to merchandise sold in the
   comparison market that is identical or similar to the subject
   merchandise. When used in the questionnaire, foreign like product means
   all merchandise that is sold in the comparison market and that fits
   within the description of merchandise provided in Appendix III to the
   questionnaire. (Section 771(16) of the Act. See also Identical
   Merchandise and Similar Merchandise.) There are no foreign like
   products for nonmarket economy cases. Factors of production analysis is
   used to determine normal values. (See Factors of Production.).

   Further Manufacturing Adjustment

   In calculating a constructed export price, the Department normally
   deducts from the price of the merchandise sold in the United States the
   cost of any further manufacture or assembly performed in the United
   States by, or for, the exporter or an affiliate. However, if the value
   of the further processing is likely to exceed substantially the value
   of the subject merchandise in its imported condition, the Department
   may use an alternative basis for the constructed export price. If
   possible, the Department would use the price of subject merchandise
   sold to an unaffiliated customer by the producer, exporter, or
   affiliated seller. If there is an insufficient quantity of such sales,
   the Department may rely on any other reasonable basis. (Sections
   772(d)(2) and 772(e) of the Act, and Section 351.404 of the
   regulations.)

   Home Market

   The home market refers to the market for sales of the foreign like
   product in the country in which the merchandise under investigation is
   produced. Home market sales are the preferred basis for normal value.
   (See also Third-Country Market and Viability.)(Section 351.404 of the
   regulation)

   Identical Merchandise

   The Department prefers to compare U.S. sales to sales of foreign sales
   of identical merchandise. Identical merchandise is merchandise that is
   produced by the same manufacturer in the same country as the subject
   merchandise, and which the Department determines is identical or
   virtually identical in physical characteristics with the subject
   merchandise, as imported into the United States. (See also Similar
   Merchandise and Foreign Like Product.)

   Imputed Expenses

   Imputed expenses generally are opportunity costs (rather than actual
   costs) that are not reflected in the financial records of the company
   being investigated, but which must be estimated and reported for
   purposes of an antidumping inquiry. Common examples of imputed expenses
   include credit expenses and inventory carrying costs.

   Indirect Expenses

   See Direct vs. Indirect Expenses.

   Inventory Carrying Costs

   Inventory carrying costs are the interest expenses incurred (or
   interest revenue foregone) between the time the merchandise leaves the
   production line at the factory to the time the goods are shipped to the
   first unaffiliated customer. The Department normally calculates these
   costs by applying the firm's annual short-term borrowing rate in the
   currency of the country where the merchandise is held, prorated by the
   number of days between leaving the production line and shipment to the
   customer, to the unit cost or price. (See also Imputed Expenses.)

   Level of Trade

   In order to establish whether difference in levels of trade exist, the
   Department reviews distribution systems, including categories of
   customers, selling activities, and levels of selling expenses for each
   type of sale. Different levels of trade are typically characterized by
   purchasers at different stages in the chain of distribution and sellers
   performing qualitatively and/or quantitatively different selling
   activities. Different levels of trade necessarily involve difference in
   selling activities, although differences in selling activities alone
   are not sufficient to establish differences in levels of trade.
   Similarly, customer categories such as "distributor, "wholesaler,"
   "retailer," and "end-user" are often use ful in identifying levels of
   trade, although they, too, are insufficient in themselves to establish
   differences in levels of trade. Rather, the Department evaluates
   differences in levels of trade based on a seller's entire market
   process. (Section 351.412(a)-(c) of the Department's regulations.)

   Level of Trade Adjustment

   To the extent practicable, the Department calculates normal values
   based on sales at the same level of trade. When the U.S. sale is an
   export price sale, the level of trade of the U.S. sale is that of the
   starting price. When the U.S. sale is a constructed export price sale,
   the level of trade of the U.S. sale is determined for the constructed
   export price, not the starting price. When the Department is unable to
   find sales in the comparison market at that same level of trade as the
   U.S. sale, the Department may adjust the normal value to account for
   differences in levels of trade between the two markets.

   The Department will make these adjustments only when there is a
   difference in the levels of trade (i.e., there is a difference between
   the place of the customers in the marketing process, and actual
   functions performed by the sellers and that difference affects price
   comparability. The Department will measure the effect on price
   comparability by determining whether there is a consistent pattern of
   price differences between sales at the different levels of trade in the
   comparison market. The Department normally will calculate any
   adjustment for level of trade based on the percentage difference
   between averages of the prices at the different levels of trade in the
   comparison market, less any expenses adjusted for elsewhere in the
   normal value calculation. (Sections 773(a)(1) and (7) of the Act.)

   Market-Oriented Industry

   For nonmarket economy (NME) cases, the Department may find a
   market-oriented industry exists when it finds that in an entire
   industry: (1) there is virtually no government involvement in setting
   prices or amounts produced; (2) it is privately or collectively owned;
   or (3) market- determined prices are paid for all significant inputs.
   (Normally, imports of merchandise from an NME are not subject to
   countervailing duty.

   Such a decision is based on information provided by the nonmarket
   economy exporters and producers. If an industry is found to be a
   market-oriented industry, the normal value will be calculated on the
   basis of home market or third country prices or costs. That industry
   would also be subject to a countervailing duty investigation should one
   be petitioned and initiated.

   Movement Expenses

   Movement expenses are expenses directly attributable to bringing the
   merchandise from the original place of shipment to the place of
   delivery of the U.S. or foreign market sale. These expenses may include
   freight and freight insurance charges, brokerage and handling fees,
   export taxes, and warehousing expenses incurred after the merchandise
   leaves the original place of shipment.

   Normally, the product facility is considered to be the original place
   of shipment. However, where export price, constructed export price, or
   normal value is based on a sale made by a reseller unaffiliated with
   the producer, the Department may treat the place from which the
   reseller shipped the merchandise as the original place of shipment.
   Sections 772)c)(2)(A) and 773(a)(6)(B)(ii) of the Act; section
   351.401(e) of the regulations.)

   Nonmarket Economy

   A nonmarket economy country is any foreign country that the Department
   determines does not operate on market principles of cost and pricing
   structures. The Department considers the following factors about a
   foreign country in making these decisions: (1) the extent to which the
   currency is convertible; (2) the extent to which wage rates are
   determined by free bargaining between labor and management; (3) the
   extent to which joint ventures or foreign investment are permitted; (4)
   the extent of government ownership or control of means of production;
   (5) the extent of government control over allocation of resources and
   over price and output decisions of enterprises; and (6) other factors
   the Department considers appropriate. (Section 771(18)(B) of the Act.)

   Normal Value

   Normal value is the term applied to the adjusted price of the foreign
   like product in the home or third-country (comparison) market, or to
   the constructed value of the subject merchandise. The Department
   compares the normal value to the export price or constructed export
   price to determine the margin of dumping, if any.

   The Department initially seeks to calculate normal values based on
   price. If there are adequate sales in the home market (see Viability),
   the Department calculates normal value based on the price at which the
   foreign like product is first sold (generally, to unaffiliated parties)
   in that market. In the absence at a usable home market, and if there
   are adequate sales in a third-country market, the Department calculates
   normal value based on the price at which the foreign like product is
   first sold (generally, to unaffiliated parties) in the third-country
   market. If there are no appropriate home or third-country market sales,
   the Department determines normal value by calculating the constructed
   value.

   To ensure that a fair comparison with the export price or constructed
   export price is made, the Department makes adjustments to the price
   used to calculate the normal value. The Department adds U.S. packing
   charges and deducts any of the following expenses included in the
   comparison market price: packing charges, transportation costs, and any
   internal tax that was rebated or not collected on the subject
   merchandise. The Department may make additional adjustments to account
   for differences in the conditions under which sales are made in the
   United States and the comparison market. Thus, the Department may
   increase or decrease the normal value to account for differences in
   quantities, physical characteristics of the merchandise, levels of
   trade, and other circumstances of sale. (Section 773(a) of the Act.)

   Normal value for nonmarket economy cases is determined by factors of
   production analysis. (See Factors of Production.)

   Ordinary Course of Trade

   In calculating normal value, the Department will consider only those
   sales in the comparison market that are in the ordinary course of
   trade. Generally, sales are in the ordinary course of trade if made
   under conditions and practices that, for a reasonable period of time
   prior to the date of sale of the subject merchandise, have been normal
   for sales of the foreign like product. (Section 771(15) of the Act and
   section 351.102(b) of the regulations. See also Arms-length
   Transactions.)

   Proprietary Information

   Proprietary information is sensitive business data that would cause
   substantial harm to the submitter if disclosed publicly. Examples of
   information that the Department normally treats as proprietary, if
   requested and not already in the public domain, include trade secrets
   concerning the production process, production and distribution costs,
   terms of sale, individual prices, and the names of customers and
   suppliers.

   Proprietary Treatment

   If a party requests proprietary treatment of information, and if the
   Department agrees that the information is proprietary, the Department
   will protect the information from public disclosure. If the Department
   does not agree that the information is proprietary, it will return the
   information and not rely on it in the proceeding, unless the submitter
   agrees that it may be made public. When requested, Department will
   disclose proprietary information only to United States International
   Trade Commission and United States Customs Service officials and, under
   limited administrative protective orders, representatives of interested
   parties. (Section 777(b) of the Act. See also Administrative Protective
   Order.)

   Rebates

   Similar to discounts, rebates are reductions in the gross price that a
   buyer is charged for goods. Unlike discounts, rebates do not result in
   a reduction in the remittance from the buyer to the seller for the
   particular merchandise with which the rebate is associated. Rather, a
   rebate is a refund of monies paid, a credit against monies due on
   future purchases, or the conveyance of some other item of value by the
   seller to the buyer after the buyer has paid for the merchandise. When
   the seller establishes the terms and conditions under which the rebate
   will be granted at or before the time of sale, the Department reduces
   the gross selling price by the amount of the rebate. (See also
   Discounts and Direct vs. Indirect Expenses.)

   Separate Rates

   For nonmarket economy cases, the Department normally calculates one
   rate for all exporting companies. However, if an exporter demonstrates
   that its export activities are independent of government control, it
   can receive an individually calculated antidumping duty rate. This
   separate rate is calculated using the U.S. price the exporter set and
   the inputs of the manufacturer that supplied the goods to the exporter,
   valued in a surrogate country. All companies that do not submit a
   response to the antidumping questionnaire or do not adequately
   establish that their export activities are independent of government
   control are subject to the single economy-wide rate.

   Similar Merchandise

   For market economy cases, in deciding which sales of the foreign like
   product to compare to sales of the subject merchandise, the Department
   first seeks to compare sales of identical merchandise. If there are no
   sales of the identical foreign like product, the Department will
   compare sales of the foreign like product similar to the subject
   merchandise. The similar foreign like product is merchandise that is
   produced by the same manufacturer in the same country as the subject
   merchandise, and which, in order of preference, is either (1) similar
   to the subject merchandise in component materials, use, and value, or
   (2) similar in use to, and reasonably comparable to, the subject
   merchandise. (Section 771 (16) of the Act.) See also Identical
   Merchandise and Foreign Like Product.

   Subject Merchandise

   Subject merchandise is the merchandise under investigation, i.e., the
   merchandise described in Appendix III to the questionnaire, and sold
   in, or to, the United States. (Section 771(25) of the Act.)

   Surrogate Country

   For nonmarket economy cases, the Department values factors of
   production in a surrogate country. The surrogate is a market economy
   country that is at a level of economic development comparable to that
   of the nonmarket economy country and is a significant producer of the
   subject merchandise or comparable merchandise nonmarket economy
   country. The Department cannot use price or costs inside a NME, except
   in the case of a Market Oriented Industry. (Section 773(c)).

   Technical Service Expenses

   Technical service expenses are typically incurred when a producer
   provides technical advice to customers which are industrial users of
   the product. Generally, the Department considers travel expenses and
   contract services performed by unaffiliated technicians to be direct
   expenses. The Department treats salaries paid to the seller's employees
   who provide technical services as indirect expenses.

   Third-Country Market

   When the Department cannot use home market sales as the basis for
   determining normal value, one of the alternative methods authorized by
   the antidumping law is the use of sales to a third -country market,
   i.e., export sales of the foreign like product to a country other than
   the United States. Generally, in selecting a third-country market to be
   used as the comparison market, the Department will choose one of the
   three third-country markets with the largest aggregate quantity of
   sales of the foreign like product. In selecting which country, the
   Department will consider product similarity, the similarity of the
   third-country and U.S. markets, and whether the sales to the third
   country are representative. (See also Home Market and Viability and
   section 773(a)(1) of the Act and section 351.404 at the regulations.)

   Verification

   To establish the adequacy and accuracy of information submitted in
   response to questionnaires and other requests for information, the
   Department examines the records of the party that provided the
   information and interviews company personnel who prepared the
   questionnaire response and are familiar with the sources of the data in
   the response. This process is called verification. The Department must
   verify information relied upon in making a final determination in an
   investigation, or in an administrative review when revocation of an
   antidumping order is properly requested. The Department also must
   verify information submitted in an administrative review if an
   interested party so requests and no verification of the producer or
   exporter had been conducted during the two immediately proceeding
   reviews of that producer or exporter, or if good cause for verification
   is shown. (Section 782(i) of the Act.) Also section 351.307 of the
   regulations.

   Viability

   For market economy cases, to calculate normal value based on sales in
   the home market, the Department must determine that the volume of sales
   is adequate in that market and that a "particular market situation"
   does not make their use inappropriate. To calculate normal value based
   on sales in a third-country market, the Department must make the same
   determinations with respect to sales to the third country, and the
   sales must be "representative." These determinations establish whether
   a market is viable.

   The Department normally finds sales to be adequate if the quantity of
   the foreign like product sold in the market is 5 percent or more of the
   quantity sold to the United States. In unusual situations, the
   Department may find that sales below the 5-percent threshold are
   adequate, or that sales above the threshold are not. Also in unusual
   situations, the Department may apply the 5-percent test on the basis of
   value, rather than quantity. The terms "particular market situation"
   and "representative" are undefined in the statute of regulations. A
   particular market situation might exist, for example, where there was a
   single sale in the comparison market that constituted 5 percent or more
   of the quantity sold to the United States, or where government control
   of pricing is such that prices cannot be competitively set, or where
   there are differing patterns of demand in the United States and
   comparison market. (Section 773(a)(1) of the Act and section
   351.404(b)(2) of the regulations.)
