http://natt.pnl.gov/FocusAreas.htm

                               [NATTlogo.gif]

                 Home Feedback Contents Search Related Sites


   Aluminum
   Magnesium
   Titanium
   Polymer Composite
   Glazing
   NATT Projects


Focus Areas

   The Northwest Alliance for Transportation Technologies (NATT) will be
   structured around primary focus areas, rather than having a collection
   of programs that individually are important but collectively do not
   have significant impact. These focus areas may contain several programs
   that are all significant parts of the whole. The programs may vary with
   time, but the focus areas will remain constant until completion. The
   goal is to build capabilities within the supplier base and, therefore,
   the focus area will be cost-shared primarily with suppliers. The
   following are proposed NATT focus areas:

   [bull1.gif] Magnesium Focus Area

   The objective is to extend the application of magnesium into areas that
   are beyond current use. Suitable alloys or composites will be needed
   for higher strength and/or higher temperature applications. This focus
   area will address materials cost, alloy development, and manufacturing
   processes. A stretch demonstration project will be selected which will
   include cost/performance objectives (such as a magnesium transaxle
   housing) and a team assembled to execute the project.

   [bull1.gif] Aluminum Focus Area

   The objective is to lower the cost of making automotive components with
   aluminum and aluminum metal matrix composites (MMCs). Areas to be
   addressed include lowering the cost of aluminum materials production,
   developing more efficient manufacturing processes, and utilizing
   computational technology to optimize manufacturing strategies and
   process design. This will shorten the time from concept to product by
   minimizing prototyping and iterative approaches to process optimization
   (e.g., replace physical with digital). This focus area includes the
   forming of wrought alloys and more efficient forms of casting.

   [bull1.gif] Titanium Focus Area

   The primary goal of this focus area is to lower the cost of titanium
   and to demonstrate the feasibility of manufacturing a
   cost-competitive/performance-enhanced product, such as springs from
   titanium tubing.

   [bull1.gif] Polymer Composite Focus Area

   The objective here is to focus on sheet composites and their effective
   use in autobody structures. The goal is to develop a cost-effective
   sheet product that can be easily and predictably formed into reasonably
   complex shapes. This focus area addresses cost reduction of carbon
   fibers and resins, optimization of the forming processes, and computer
   modeling so that manufacturing processes can be rapidly optimized.

   [bull1.gif] Advanced Glazing Focus Area

   As the weight of the automobile decreases, the percentage of the glass
   weight increases. There is a need to reduce the weight of the glazing
   material as well as improve its thermal efficiency. These will be done
   by using either polymer glass composites or coated polymers. These new
   glazing materials must be cost effective, meet safety standards, and
   have sufficiently high thermal efficiency to reduce the demands on
   heating and air conditioning.
