http://www.njb.uscourts.gov/notice/2000_copyProcedures/Copy_Notice.PDF

   United States Bankruptcy Court District of New Jersey NOTICE RE COPY
   PROCEDURES Effective immediately, the contract copy service (Xyan,
   formerly LexPlex) at the U.S. Bankruptcy Court has been discontinued.
   Copies of court documents may be obtained as follows: 1) Via the
   Internet : send requests to the special e-mail addresses noted below.
   Documents requested in this manner will be scanned and will be
   available for downloading from the court's web site within 24 to 48
   hours of receipt of the request.1 If, for any reason, the court cannot
   provide copies over the Internet, the requested documents will be
   photocopied and mailed, or available for pick up, at a charge of
   $0.50/per page. Please note: The Court will scan documents containing
   25 pages or less . To obtain a copy of a larger document, you must
   request conventional copies either in person or by mail. In addition,
   you are encouraged to review the docket of the case in question, as the
   requested document may have been previously scanned. Email Addresses:
   camden_copy@njb.uscourts.gov newark_copy@njb.uscourts.gov
   trenton_copy@njb.uscourts.gov Please check the Public Access Imaging
   System before e-mailing your request, as an image of the document may
   be currently available. If you do need to contact the court, it is
   important that you include the docket entry number of each document. 2)
   By writing directly to the appropriate clerk's office. The copy fee is
   $0.50/per page.2 Mailing Addresses: U.S. Bankruptcy Court U.S.
   Bankruptcy Court U.S. Bankruptcy Court U.S. Post Office PO Box 1352
   Clarkson S. Fisher & Court House Building Newark, NJ 07101-1352 Federal
   Bldg. & Courthouse PO Box 2067 402 East State Street Camden, NJ
   08101-2067 Trenton, NJ 08608 3) In Person by visiting the clerk's
   office where the case is pending and requesting copies. The copy fee is
   $0.50/per page. 1 Currently, images are available via Racer free of
   charge. However, a billing mechanism will be put in place shortly and
   an access fee of 7 cents per page will be implemented. 2 All court fees
   must be in the form of corporate check, attorney business account
   check, certified check, pre-approved credit card or money order.
