http://www.education.nasa.gov/workshop.html

   NASA

   Return to NASA Education Home

   Search

   Site Map

   Comments and Information

   NASA Privacy Statement

   NASA Educator Workshop Opportunities
     * NASA Educational Workshops - NEW - Selected participants will spend
       two weeks in the summer at one of NASA's Centers. Travel expenses,
       housing and meals are included as part of the program. Graduate
       credit is available.
     * NASA Aerospace Education Services Program - is a nationwide, free
       program for teachers, students, and the general public. It is
       designed to increase awareness and understanding of scientific
       research and technological development and their place in the world
       in which we live.
     * Urban and Rural Community Enrichment Program (URCEP) - is a NASA
       Aerospace Education Services Program specifically designed to serve
       middle school educators and students in urban and rural communities
       to interesting and broadening educational activities. Special
       emphasis is placed on communications, logic, and reasoning skills
       that are curriculum related.
     * NASA's Educator Resource Centers - are located on or near NASA
       Field Centers, museums, colleges, or other nonprofit organizations.
       The ERC's provide educators with inservice and preservice training,
       demonstrations, and access to NASA instructional products.
     * NASA Opportunities for Visionary Academics - NOVA - works to
       create, develop and disseminate a national framework for enhancing
       science, mathematics and technology literacy for preservice
       teachers in the 21st century.
     * NASA Faculty Fellowship Program - NASA supports a program of
       faculty fellowships for full-time engineering and science educators
       at U.S colleges and universities. In a series of collaborations
       between NASA research and development centers and nearby
       universities, engineering and science faculty members spend ten
       weeks working with professional peers on research, during the
       summer months.
     * NASA Lunar-Meteorite Sample Loan Program - Educators can be
       certified to borrow lunar and meteorite materials by attending a
       training seminar on security requirements and proper handling
       procedures. Learn How!

              NASA Education Program | NASA Home | NASA Centers
     NASA Strategic Enterprises | NASA Field Center Education Web Sites
