http://fire.pppl.gov/eu_coun_min_103001.pdf

   CORDIS: Belgium Council Presidency: Presidency News De Donnea welcomes
   EU support for FP6 thematic priorities 2001-10-31 The president of the
   EU Research Council, François-Xavier de Donnea, has welcomed the broad
   support given by the Council for the thematic priorities of the next
   RTD (research, technology and demonstration) Framework programme, FP6.
   The Council, meeting in Luxembourg on 30 October, reached a broad
   consensus on the Commission's proposals for FP6 without reaching a
   political agreement on the programme as a whole. A spokesperson for Mr
   de Donnea said that while broad support was given for maintaining the
   eight thematic priorities proposed by the Commission, agreement was
   reached on three thematic priorities which Member States would like to
   see amended. Delegates agreed that the 'genomics and biotechnology for
   health' thematic priority should be broadened to include research on
   animals and plants as well as human health, although this should remain
   the keystone of the research programme under this priority. It was also
   agreed that the whole theme should be enlarged to include research on
   diabetes and allergies. The ministers also agreed that the budget for
   the 'Sustainable development and global change' key priority should be
   widened to include further research on a variety of areas where
   different Member States would like to see further emphasis,
   particularly energy, transport and marine and agricultural research.
   The Council also discussed the 880 million euro earmarked under the
   Commission's proposals for forward looking and more flexible research.
   Some Member States expressed concern that such a large amount of
   funding should be given to unforeseen research. While there was a wide
   consensus on the need for new instruments such as integrated projects,
   networks of excellence and the networking of national programmes, a
   number of countries called for older instruments to be maintained, such
   as smaller research networks, alongside the large-scale instruments
   foreseen for FP6. Mr de Donnea emphasised that there will be no
   exclusivity in the implementation of the new instruments, and that
   older instruments will be allowed to continue if they can justify their
   role on the new Framework programme. Another development which emerged
   from the Council was an agreement to establish a subcommittee for each
   thematic priority, in addition to a programme-wide committee covering
   all eight thematic priorities. Ministers also agreed on the budget for
   FP6 as a whole, but not on the specific allocation of funds to each
   priority of the research programme. It was agreed that funding should
   focus on high performance tools other than tangible investments like
   buildings, such as communication networks between research centres.
   French research minister Roger Gerard Schwarzenberg used the Council as
   a platform to announce that France is putting itself forward as a
   candidate for the ITER nuclear fusion reactor. The minister said that
   France hoped to host the reactor site, which Canada and Japan are also
   hoping to host, in Cadarache, France. Mr Schwarzenberg said that work
   must start as soon as possible on the fusion reactor, as fusion energy
   could prove an invaluable future energy source and it is anticipated
   that it will take decades for workable results to emerge. The adoption
   of a common Council position on FP6 is now expected at the next meeting
   of the EU Research Council on 10 December this year. Mr de Donnea has
   said that one of the priories of the Belgian Presidency is to ensure as
   smooth a transition as possible between the current and next framework
   programmes. For further information, please consult the following web
   addresses: http://www.eu2001.be http://www.cordis.lu/belgium
   http://europa.eu.int/comm/research/nfp.html Category: General policy
   Information Source: Belgian Presidency sources Document Reference:
   Interview with spokesperson for Belgian Presidency RCN: 17562 Back Next
   article CORDIS RTD-NEWS / © European Communities, 2001. Thursday,
   November 1, 2001
   http://dbs.cordis.lu/fep-cgi/srchidadb?ACTION=D&SESSION=82552001-11-1&D
   OC=1&TBL=EN_NEWS&RCN=EN_GEI_A:The president of the EU Page: 1 Research
   Council, François-Xavier de Donnea, has welcomed the broad support
   given by the Council for the thematic priorities of th
