http://www.whitehouse.gov/news/


   Skip to Content text only go to search President News Vice President
   History & Tours First Lady Search
   Welcome to the White House.
   Government Kids Only Espanol Contact Privacy Policy SiteMap
   __________ Search


   West Wing Connections
   Policies in Focus
   America Responds to Terrorism
   Homeland Security
   Economy & Budget
   Education Reform
   Medicare
   Social Security
   More Issues
   En Español

   News
   Current News
   Press Briefings
   Proclamations
   Nominations
   Executive Orders
   Radio Addresses
   Discurso Radial
   (en Español)
   Appointments
   Application
   Photos
   Photo of President Bush preparing for his State of the Union address.
   Photo Essays
   An American Response
   Standing for the Flag
    Home > News & Policies


   This Week at the White House
   America Responds   Homeland Security Actions   Diplomatic Actions
        Military Actions   Financial Actions   Investigative Actions
                                                Humanitarian Actions
                                                 [responds-tiny.gif]


   Latest News
   January 30, 2002
   President to Discuss New Citizen Corps Initiative
   Statement by the Press Secretary
   Statement by the Press Secretary
   Nominations Sent to the Senate
   Statement by the Press Secretary
   Executive Order Establishing the USA Freedom Corps
   Statement by the President

   January 29, 2002
   President Bush directs discussions of the State of the Union speech
   with senior White House staff members Andy Card, Karen Hughes and Dr.
   Condoleezza Rice in the Oval Office Thursday, January 24. White House
   photo by Eric Draper. President Delivers State of the Union Address en
   Español
         watch View the State of the Union
         Fact sheet Read about USA Freedom Corps
         Fact sheet Go to the State of the Union web page
   White House Web Site Offers First Live State of the Union Webcast and
   Historic Look at Annual Address
   President to Deliver State of the Union Address Tonight
   Statement by the President

   January 28, 2002
   President George W. Bush listens to Chairman of the Afghan Interim
   Authority Hamid Karzai during their joint press conference in the Rose
   Garden, January 28. "Chairman Karzai is a determined leader, and his
   government reflects the hopes of all Afghans for a new and better
   future; a future free from terror, free from war, and free from want,"
   said the President. White House photo by Eric Draper. President Meets
   with Afghan Interim Authority Chairman en Español
         Fact sheet Joint Statement on New Partnership Between U.S. and
   Afghanistan
         Fact sheet Fact Sheet
   President Urges Progress on Medicare en Español
         Fact sheet Fact Sheet: Strengthening Medicare
   President Urges Responsibility in Speech Congratulating Lakers
         watch View the President's Remarks
         listen Listen to the President's Remarks
   Personnel Announcements
   January 25, 2002
   Nominations Sent to the Senate
   President Bush Announced His Intention to Nominate Peter Terpeluk , Jr.
   to be Ambassador to Luxembourg
   Nominations Sent to the Senate

   January 26, 2002
   President George W. Bush meets with Republican congressional leaders to
   discuss the upcoming congressional agenda at Camp David. Saturday, Jan
   26, 2002. WHITE HOUSE PHOTO BY ERIC DRAPER. President Discusses 2002
   Priorities in Radio Address en Español
         listen Listen to the President's Remarks

   January 25, 2002
   President Increases Budget for Border Security en Español
         watch View the President's Remarks
         listen Listen to the President's Remarks
         Fact sheet Fact Sheet: Border Security
   President's Designates to Attend Honduras Inauguration
   President Bush to Nominate Miles to be Ambassador of the United States
   to the Republic of Georgia
   President Announces Relief Effort for Congo
   Remarks by the President While Touring United States Coast Guard Cutter
   Tahoma

   January 24, 2002
   President George W. Bush wades into a crowd of handshakes and flashing
   cameras as he welcomes mayors and county official to the East Room Jan.
   24. White House photo by Tina Hager. President Announces Substantial
   Increases in Homeland Security Budget
         watch View the President's Remarks
         listen Listen to the President's Remarks
         Fact sheet Fact Sheet: Strengthening Homeland Security
   Solomon Saratoga National Cemetery Bill Signed
   President Orders Federal Aid for Arkansas
   Letter Regarding U.N. Security Council and Iraq
   Continuation of National Emergency
   Letter Regarding National Emergency
   Six-Month Report on National Emergency (Exec Order 12947)
   Six-Month Report on National Emergency
   President to Welcome Pakistani President to Washington

   Picture of White House logo, which features the White House inside an
   oval.
   Press Briefings
   Press Briefing by White House Press Secretary
   Press Briefing Archives
   Radio Address
   President's Radio Address to the Nation
   Discurso Radial del Presidente a la Nacion
   Radio Address Archive
   Archivos - Discursos Radial del Presidente
   News & Speeches
   January 2002
   December 2001
   November 2001
   October 2001
   September 2001
   August 2001
   July 2001
   June 2001
   May 2001
   April 2001
   March 2001
   February 2001
   January 2001
   Proclamations
   National Mentoring Month
   Proclamation Archives
   Executive Orders
   Federal Facts
   Federal Statistics
   West Wing
   History

   President  |  Vice President  |  First Lady  |  Mrs. Cheney  |  News &
   Policies  |
   History & Tours |  Kids  |  Your Government  |  Appointments  |
   Contact |  Text only

   Accessibility  |  Search  |  Privacy Policy  |  Help
