http://www.nimh.nih.gov/grants/index.cfm

   Skip to Text

   NIMH

   Funding Opportunities
   [goldbox.gif]

   [goldbox.gif]


   [goldbox.gif]

   Welcome
   News & Events
   Clinical Trials
   Funding
      Opportunities
     Grants
     Research Training
     Contracts
     NIH-Wide Information
   For the Public
   For Practitioners
   For Researchers
   Intramural Research
   Publications
      Order Form
   Para Ordenar
      Publicaciones
   CRISP
   PubMed
   Medline Plus

   MH Cornerstone
   Health Information
   Healthfinder
   Search
   Home

   This section contains information on NIMH grants and contracts programs
   including grant applications and review, RFAs, RFPs, ongoing program
   announcements, research training and career development, small business
   programs, program analyses of NIMH extramural research grants &
   applications, access to NIH Grants policy, NIH Guide to Grants &
   Contracts, and the CRISP database.

   Grants
   Look here for detailed information about NIMH grant support mechanisms,
   program descriptions and staff contacts, latest policy announcements,
   program announcements (PA), requests for applications (RFA), training
   and career development programs, small business programs, etc.

   Research Training
   Here you will find extensive information about extramural and
   intramural training and career development programs including those for
   special populations, training Staff contacts, links to NIH-wide
   training and career development sites, and database and analytical
   information.

   Neuroscience Research Funding Contacts in the Federal Government (*pdf
   format) (16 pages, 95 KB)

   Contracts
   Information about NIMH R&D contracts used to support research and
   research related activities, including requests for information/sources
   sought, requests for proposals (RFP), etc.

   NIMH Seeks Outreach Partners for New Initiative

   NIMH Policy on Data and Safety Monitoring in Clinical Trials

   Research Involving Individuals with Questionable Capacity to Consent:
   Points to Consider (Interim)

   NIH Bioethics Resources on the Web

   NIH-Wide Information
   Links to the NIH Office of Extramural Research, NIH Guide to grants and
   contracts, application kits, extramural research and training programs,
   funding opportunities, grant policy, award data, searchable grants
   database, etc.

   *PDF (Portable Document Format) files can be read using Adobe's (TM)
   Acrobat(TM) Reader. This program, which you must install once on your
   computer, allows you to view, navigate and print PDF documents as they
   were published. You will need to download and install a copy of the
   Acrobat Reader in order to use this files. In addition, you can view
   PDF files through your browser by installing the Web browser plug-ins.
   You must install the Acrobat Reader first.
   Back to Top

   Updated: July 30, 2001

   For information about NIMH and its programs, please email, write or
   phone us.

   NIMH Public Inquiries
   6001 Executive Boulevard, Rm. 8184, MSC 9663
   Bethesda, MD 20892-9663 U.S.A.
   Voice (301) 443-4513; Fax (301) 443-4279
   TTY (301) 443-8431
