http://www.chhs.ca.gov/secretary.htm


                    Welcome to California California Home


   pictures of grapes, San Francisco cable car, electronic organizer, city
   skyline, the Hollywood sign and cypress tree

                                Back to CHHS


   Grantland Johnson was appointed Secretary of the California Health and
   Human Services Agency by Governor Gray Davis in January of 1999. Mr.
   Johnson is a member of the Governor's Cabinet and serves as his chief
   advisor on health, social services and employment policy.

   Mr. Johnson manages an agency that has more than 42,000 employees and a
   total budget of over $50 billion. The Agency oversees 15 state
   departments and boards, which are responsible for providing health,
   social services, mental health, rehabilitation, developmental services,
   employment and other critical services to millions of Californians.

   As Secretary, Mr. Johnson is involved in issues affecting millions of
   Californians of all ages from health care, to affordable health
   coverage, to teen pregnancies, to senior services and employment
   benefits.

   Mr. Johnson came to state service with extensive experience in both
   local and federal government. In 1993 he was appointed by federal
   Health and Human Services Secretary, Donna Shalala, as Regional
   Director for Region IX of the Department of Health and Human Services.
   Region IX includes Arizona, California, Hawaii, Nevada, Guam,
   Micronesia and American Samoa.

                                                            [gjohnson.gif]

                              Grantland Johnson
                                  Secretary

   Mr. Johnson was elected in 1987 to the Sacramento County Board of
   Supervisors and served on that board for seven years until his
   appointment to Region IX. From 1983-1986, he was a member of the
   Sacramento City Council.

   Mr. Johnson was born in Sacramento. He received his bachelor's degree
   in government from the California State University at Sacramento in
   1974.

   Mr. Johnson's many affiliations have included: co-chairmanship of the
   California State Assoication of Counties Health and Human Services
   Policy Committee; board member, Congress for New Urbanism; board
   member, Local Government Commission; Fellow, National Academy of Public
   Administration; and board member, Alliance for Redesigning Government,
   founded by David Osborne and Ted Gaebler; co-authors of Reinventing
   Government.

   Mr. Johnson and his wife Charlot Bolton have a daughter, Patrice.


                             Back to Top of Page
             California Health and Human Services (CHHS) Agency
    © 2000 State of California. Gray Davis, Governor. Conditions of Use
                               Privacy Policy
