http://www.buyers.gov/how_to_buy.html

                              Buyers.Gov Header

                        [spacer01.gif] [spacer08.gif]

                               [spacer124.gif]
                                   Welcome
                             How To Buy Or Sell
                                News & Links
                              Question & Answer
                        [spacer01.gif] [spacer10.gif]

                          How to Buy or Sell Header
                                  Policies
      It is the policy of the United States Government to competitively
   acquire quality goods and services at the lowest possible price and in
   the most effective and efficient manner. Buyers.Gov is an extension of
        this policy in that it should result in significant savings,
   streamlined procurements, reduced paperwork, increased satisfaction to
           our customers, both within the Government and Industry.

   The use of Buyers.Gov in no way interferes with the privity of contract
       that exists between the schedule holder and the Government. The
   underlying terms and conditions of the GSA FSS from which a buy is made
     are not modified in any way by using Buyers.Gov. In the event of a
      conflict, those terms and conditions shall apply. Buyers.Gov is a
     value-added, web enabled e-commerce initiative to arrive at a price
               based on aggregated quantities of commodities.

     The enablers are in no way responsible for late shipments, damaged
    goods, or for the wrong product being shipped. Mistakes in orders are
    between the buyer and the FSS schedule holder and will be resolved in
   the manner and remedies prescribed in the terms and conditions of that
   contract. Payment and shipping will be in accordance with the terms and
                   conditions of the current FSS schedule.

                               Private Auction
     Buyers for large FSS schedule IT procurement requirements, will be
   using the Private Auction tool. The buyer must contact an FTS commodity
   manager to consult and determine factors relevant to Private Auctions.

                                    eFAST
    The eFAST portion of Buyers.Gov is a pilot project whose objective is
        to reduce the cost to the Government to procure commodities.

   The eFAST procurement tool offers the enabling technology that permits
    web based reverse auctions for commercial information technology (IT)
   products. Initially, only those resellers with Federal Supply Schedules
   (FSS) will be eligible to participate in Buyers.Gov eFAST auctions. The
   government and its industry partners/enablers have selected popular IT
     items for which auctions will be scheduled on a regular, recurring
   basis. For a specific list of commodities and auction schedules go the
                                   eFAST.

   If you are a GSA FSS schedule holder and a reseller of the commodities
    listed at eFAST you must register or be registered in the Information
                      Technology Solutions Shop (ITSS).

    If you are already registered and are a reseller of the products that
       are listed under categories on the eFAST page you may contact a
    commodity manager or an enabler responsible for executing an auction
     directly to present products for resale review. A list of Commodity
    Managers, phone numbers and e-mail addresses are posted at eFAST POC.

    Prior to posting an item for an auction event, the initial price will
          be determined by the reseller and the Commodity Manager.

   The reseller will identify to the commodity manager and the enabler the
    product description/specification, opening price (at or below the GSA
              schedule unit price), and the quantities offered.

   The reseller will be notified of their product information being posted
    to the enabler's web site for the scheduled event. The reseller will
         then have 24 hours to review the posted information for any
         discrepancies and notify the enabler and commodity manager.

    The Government reserves the right to approve products, descriptions,
     pricing and event schedules. The commodity manager will monitor the
   auction event and reserves the right to close an event early, to extend
                      an event, or to cancel an event.

                                Quick Quotes
     The Quick Quote procurement tool will be available at a later date.
              Please refer back often for updated information.


                        [spacer10.gif] [spacer01.gif]
                            [bottom_line600.gif]


             © Copyright 2000, Buyers.Gov. All rights reserved.
                                 Disclaimer
