http://www.vamhcs.med.va.gov/newsrel/01-02_SmithPresidentialAward.htm

                            A Salute To Service:

     VA Maryland Health Care System CEO Honored with Presidential Award

   Cited as “a leader with great foresight who is not afraid to take
   risks,” Dennis H. Smith, Director of the Veterans Affairs (VA) Maryland
   Health Care System, has been awarded the prestigious Presidential Rank
   Award for Meritorious Executives.  This award marks the second such
   honor bestowed on Smith during 2001.  In October, he also received the
   2001 Honorary Leadership Award from the Department of Veterans
   Affairs.

   Presented annually by the Federal Government, the Presidential Rank
   Award recognizes a select group of career Senior Executives from all
   departments of the federal system who “consistently demonstrate
   strength, integrity, industry and a relentless commitment to excellence
   in public service.”  Award winners are chosen through a rigorous
   selection process.  They are nominated by their agency heads, evaluated
   by boards of private citizens, and approved by the President.  The
   evaluation criteria focus on the executive's leadership in producing
   results.

   During a public ceremony held in October at Constitution Hall in
   Washington, D.C., President George W. Bush lauded this year’s
   Presidential Rank Award winners, saying, “ We honor their exceptional
   performance.  Their work covers a tremendous range of issues, yet they
   share some things in common: an outstanding work ethic, commitment to
   public service and pride in a job well done.”

   In response to receiving the award, Smith said, “I am honored to be
   recognized for my contributions to the Department of Veterans Affairs.
   However, this award also reflects the superb performance and
   contributions of the 2,500 employees who work throughout the VA
   Maryland Health Care System.  As always, it’s a team effort.”

   This honor is the newest milestone in Smith’s 28-year career with the
   Department of Veterans Affairs.  He joined the VA in 1973 at the
   Washington, DC VA Medical Center as an administrative resident.  Since
   that time, he has served at various levels within the Veterans Health
   Administration in senior administrative positions.  Prior to being
   appointed as the Director of the VA Maryland Health Care System, he was
   the Chief of Staff to the Under Secretary for Health in VA
   Headquarters.

   As chief executive officer for the VA Maryland Health Care System,
   Smith directs one of the largest health care delivery systems in the
   state.  He oversees the Baltimore, Fort Howard and Perry Point VA
   Medical Centers and the Baltimore VA Rehabilitation & Extended Care
   Center.  He is also responsible for the operation and management of the
   Cambridge, Glen Burnie, Southern Maryland, Loch Raven and Pocomoke City
   VA Outpatient Clinics.  Through this system, he is responsible for the
   provision of care to more than 46,700 veterans throughout Maryland,
   with over 8,800 inpatient admissions, 778 authorized beds and 499,000
   outpatient visits made annually.

   With a staff of 2,500, Mr. Smith has positioned the VA Maryland Health
   Care System to be a leader in veterans’ health care, research and
   education.  Through its dedicated group of employees, the VA Health
   Care System is able to provide comprehensive services to veterans
   across the state, including medical, surgical, rehabilitative,
   neurological, primary and mental health care on both an inpatient and
   outpatient basis.

   Under his direction, the health care system has become one of the
   largest funded research and development programs in VA and maintains an
   active affiliation with the University of Maryland School of Medicine
   and other colleges and universities.  Over 1,000 residents, interns,
   and students from various disciplines are trained throughout the health
   care system each year.  As a creative and dynamic leader, Mr. Smith has
   a synergistic effect on the health care system by allowing his managers
   to develop innovative solutions and programs to serve the needs of
   Maryland’s veterans.

   A native of Baltimore, Smith received his Bachelor of Science degree in
   Business Administration from the University of Maryland, College Park;
   Master of Business Administration from Loyola College, Baltimore,
   Maryland; and Master of Hospital Administration from George Washington
   University, Washington, D.C.

   Smith is a diplomat of the American College of Healthcare Executives
   and serves as an active member on the Board of Directors for the United
   Way of Central Maryland, the Maryland Center for Veterans Education and
   Training (MCVET) and VA Research.  He has also been appointed to the
   Maryland Hospital Association Council on Clinical and Quality Issues
   and is a member of the American Hospital Association Regional Policy
   Board.
