http://wsom.nws.noaa.gov/manual/CHAPTERD/ND237911.HTML

   commerce logo           U.S. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
                                                           National
   Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
                                                           NATIONAL
   WEATHER SERVICE
                                                           Silver Spring,
   Md. 20910

                                                           August 23, 1979
                                           OA/W116xl

   TO:                  All Holders of Operations Manual

   SUBJECT:      Transmittal Memorandum for Operations Manual Issuance
   79-11

   1.    Material Transmitted:

   Chapter D-23, "Special Aviation Forecasts and Events."

   2.    Summary:

   This chapter was previously issued under the title "Special Flight
   Forecasts"

   The requirements of the previously issued "Special Flight Forecasts"
   has been retained in the new issuance. This issuance also includes new
   guidelines for the NWS' support to special aviation events.

   3.    Effect on Other Instructions:

   This chapter replaces WSOM Chapter D-23, Issuance 67-5, dated November
   17, 1967.

   Richard E. Hallgren
   Director, National Weather Service
     __________________________________________________________________

   1.    Purpose. This chapter provides guidance for the National Weather
   Service (NWS) offices' preparation of special aviation forecasts and
   responsibility for supporting special aviation events.

   2.    Responsibility. Special aviation forecasts are prepared by
   Weather Service Forecast Offices (WSFO's). When special forecasts
   extend beyond the WSFO's area of responsibility, the supporting WSFO
   should consult with the affected adjacent WSFO before issuing the
   forecast.

   The responsibility for supporting special events is determined by the
   location and type of event, i.e., local, regional, national, or
   international

     a. Local events - occur periodically near an NWS office and usually
     have only local participants. Personnel from Weather Service Offices
     (WSO's) and WSFO's should support these events when possible, i.e.,
     without hindering operational duties. WSO's and WSFO's may obtain
     support from Regional Headquarters (RH's).

     b. Regional events - occur either at the same or at various
     locations within an NWS region. The participants are usually from
     the same state or adjoining states but may be of limited national
     extent as well. Generally, WSO's or WSFO's should provide support
     with the assistance of  RH' s).

     c. National events - occur at the same or various locations in the
     U.S. The participants (from throughout the country) and the
     activities of the event can extend beyond one NWS region. Personnel
     from area WSO's, WSFO's, RH's, and Weather Service Headquarters
     (WSH) will provide support to the extent Possible.

     d. International events - occur either in the U.S. or in other
     countries. NWS personnel support will be handled in the same manner
     as described for national events.

   3.    Specia1 Aviation Forecasts. This service is limited to hospital,
   rescue, experimental, photographic, record attempts, test flights, or
   mass flights such as air tours, air races, or mass departures from
   events

   The content of special flight forecasts should be limited, insofar as
   possible to discussions of synoptic features and anticipated weather
   conditions that are expected to be of direct concern to the pilot
   during the flight. The forecaster should consider the type of aircraft
   and proposed flight plan and limit the content of the forecast
   accordingly. Forecasts of conditions at the destination and alternate
   terminals are of prime importance in planning instrument flights and
   should be specifically stated for the expected time of arrival of the
   aircraft. Special flight forecasts will be written for the estimated
   duration of the flight, plus about 1 hour. As a rule, forecasts
   indicating specific values of ceiling, visibility, wind aloft, and
   similar information should not be written beyond the time period
   usually covered for the type of  forecast, i.e., 18 hours and 6-hour
   outlook for FT's, etc.

   The type of forecasts may be either a terminal forecast -- provided
   complete observations are made (see WSOM Chapter D-21) -- or routes or
   local vicinity type forecasts (see WSOM Chapter D-30). New route
   forecasts may be generated or existing route forecasts enhanced to
   provide information pertinent to IFR flight. If special terminal and/or
   route forecasts require transmission on Service A teletypewriter
   circuits, then these requests should be made a minimum of 6 weeks
   before the forecast is required, thus allowing adequate time for
   programming at the FAA's Weather Message Switching Center.

   4.    Special Aviation Events. The basic guideline for supporting these
   events is that the NWS will provide support to the extent possible
   without impairing our prescribed services. The support will usually
   consist of staffing displays and exhibits, and/or briefing pilots or
   event officials.

   NWS regions will be responsible for travel and per diem for local and
   regional events. WSH will be responsible for supporting travel, per
   diem, communications costs, and equipment rentals for national and
   international events to the extent available funds Permit.

   4.1   Displays and Exhibits. The Aviation Branch, WSH, will develop
   displays or exhibits for the aviation events listed in section 5. A
   portable display or exhibit will be available for use at local and
   regional events.

   WSO's and WSFO's should submit requests for displays to their Regional
   Aviation Meteorologist. Regions should submit requests for using the
   displays to the Chief, Aviation Branch, (W116), who will also resolve
   scheduling conflicts.

   4.2    Literature. Literature should be tailored to the event with
   respect to subject matter and quantity. Aviation events should not only
   have aviation-related literature (NOAA/NWS and FAA), but also have
   other NOAA/NWS literature, i.e., disaster preparedness, NOAA Weather
   Radio, etc.

   4.3    Weather Briefings. Weather briefings may be conducted for fly-in
   pilots and/or event officials. Briefings may be made either remotely,
   from the NWS supporting office, or by personnel at the event.

   4.3.1    Remote Briefings. Remote briefings should generally be made
   for local or regional events when

     a. weather communications or equipment do not exist at the event;
     or,

     b. the event is either longer than 2 days or further than 1 hour's
     driving time from the NWS supporting office.

   Speakerphones, provided by the event's organization, should be used
   whenever possible for remote briefings, thus allowing better
   communication between the forecaster and event officials and/or
   participants. Briefings without speakerphones may be recorded provided
   the briefing is played within 2 hours. Remote briefings may also be
   supplemented by charts, maps, or forms telecopied to the event
   (telecopiers provided by the event's organization). Arrangements for
   the type of information needed for scheduled briefings should be made
   with the supporting office a minimum of 2 weeks before the event
   begins.

   For soaring events, forecasters may refer to the forecast forms or
   formats in Forecasters Handbook No. 3. For ballooning events,
   forecasters should be concerned mainly with the wind and temperature
   profiles to altitudes desired by the event's organization.

   4.3.2    On-site Briefings. On-site briefings should be conducted
   generally only for national or international events and when adequate
   weather information is available at the site. Adequate weather
   communications consist of Service A teletypewriter circuit, NAFAX
   facsimile circuit, and telephone. Remote radar facsimile, request/reply
   circuit, and GOES satellite receivers may be obtained for national or
   international events. The RH's should order the communication lines,
   specifying circuits, and arrange for equipment maintenance. If weather
   information-receiving equipment is not available from nearby offices or
   the regions, WSH will lease the equipment.

   5.    Events Supported. WSH will support the following special events
   annually, within funding limitations.

     a. Reading Air Show
     b. Experimental Aircraft Association Fly-In
     c. Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association Convention
     d. International flying events
     e. Others upon request.

   WSOM Issuance
   79-11    8-23-79
