http://www.100.nist.gov/ph_energy.htm

      Celebrating our Centennial NIST at 100: Foundations for Progress


                                    1970
                  Improving Antenna Design and Performance

      The 1,000 satellites orbiting the Earth today would be space junk
      without high-performance, cost-effective antennas to transmit and
   receive communications signals. Among NIST’s pivotal contributions to
       antenna technology was the development of a theory that made it
     practical for researchers to compute an antenna’s complex outdoor
     radiation pattern using data collected entirely indoors near a test
   antenna. (Photo at right shows an antenna being readied for near-field
      measurements.) NIST also developed software for using the data to
   compute field performance; the source code remains in use today. These
      advances have saved millions of dollars in testing costs for the
          military and satellite manufacturers, among other users.

                       Back to Energy and Environment
                           Black Vertical Divider


                   Improving Antenna Design & Performance
                   © Geoffrey Wheeler



                                    1971
                          A New Kind of Microscope

    The scanning tunneling microscope (STM), widely used today in fields
   ranging from molecular biology to nanotechnology, enables scientists to
   see and manipulate individual atoms on surfaces and understand some of
    the physical, electronic, and magnetic structures of surfaces. It is
    such an important tool that, in 1986, two IBM Corp. scientists shared
    the Nobel Prize in physics for building the first STM able to glimpse
      the atomic surface. Today, there are about 5,000 STMs and related
                  instruments in use throughout the world.

        Some 15 years before, NIST physicist Russell Young built the
   Topografiner (see at right), a novel microscope that surveyed surfaces
     in great detail, nearly to the level of individual atoms. With this
   instrument, Institute researchers demonstrated the operating principle
   of the STM. The Nobel committee credited Young with being the first to
   demonstrate the use of a sharp-tipped stylus, held at a very small and
       constant distance above a sample, to scan and map surfaces. The
     committee also recognized Young for proposing to use “tunneling”
  current—a quantum mechanical phenomenon—as the means to image surfaces.
       Today, the Topografiner resides in the Smithsonian Institution.

    Young’s work is a highlight of extensive NIST research on surfaces,
     sometimes described as a fourth state of matter because they are so
    different from solids, liquids, and gases. Rapid advances in surface
    science at NIST and elsewhere from the 1960s through the present have
     contributed to the development of catalysts, semiconductor devices,
       chemical sensors, and computing systems. In 1985, for example,
     Institute researchers demonstrated magnetic imaging using scanning
    electron microscopy with polarization analysis (SEMPA), a new type of
     microscopy they developed to observe magnetic structures up to 100
    times smaller than can be seen using optical techniques. Since then,
    SEMPA has assisted in the rapid development of high-density magnetic
                            data-storage systems.

                       Back to Energy and Environment


                           Topografiner Microscope

                                    1971
                      The Origins of Closed Captioning

     In an example of a research technology with significant commercial
    spin-offs, NISTs TvTime, a method for broadcasting time and frequency
     information on television, was transformed into closed captioning.
   Approved for wide use by the Federal Communications Commission in 1976,
       the technology won an Emmy Award for outstanding achievement in
   engineering development in 1980. It has greatly benefited the deaf and
     hard of hearing. Today, closed captioning is used on virtually all
   nationally broadcast programming, most new syndicated programming, many
   cable programs, and thousands of motion pictures. It also created a new
            industry of suppliers of closed captioning services.

                       Back to Energy and Environment


                              Closed Captioning

                                    1972
                         Making Better Measurements

   Measurements have a symbiotic relationship with science and technology.
     They depend on each other, and if one advances, the other does too.

     A case in point is the work of Ken Evenson and his team at NIST’s
   Boulder campus, who made a world-record measurement of the frequency of
     laser light in 1972. That led to a much more accurate value for the
      speed of light, thus enabling scientists to better understand the
      behavior of the universe and more accurately track satellites and
   spaceships. The ripple effect of the advance then came back full circle
   to measurement science in the form of a new, more stable definition of
                                 the meter.

       NIST actually achieved nine world-record measurements of laser
      frequency between 1969 and 1979. But the one in 1972 was special
   because the laser was stabilized, ensuring that any other similar laser
      will operate at the same frequency so that the experiment can be
   repeated. This design also enabled accurate independent measurements of
                          the light’s wavelength.

   Wavelength multiplied by frequency equals the speed of light—which in
    this case was 100 times more accurate than the value accepted for the
    previous 15 years. The new value for the speed of light was accepted
   internationally in 1973 (and finalized in the 1983 redefinition of the
                                   meter).

    Because frequency can be measured more accurately than wavelength (in
     fact, frequency is the most accurately measured value in science),
     scientists then wanted to improve the standard of length, which had
   been defined in terms of the wavelength of a certain type of light. In
    1983, based largely on the achievements of Evenson and his team, the
   meter was formally redefined in terms of the new value for the speed of
                                   light.

                       Back to Energy and Environment


                                [evenson.jpg]

                                    1977
                        Safeguarding Electronic Data

     About the time the personal computer was invented, NIST issued the
     first publicly available data encryption standard (DES)—a landmark
        event in an era when most cryptographic equipment was either
                         proprietary or classified.

   DES has secured much of the world’s electronic data ever since. It was
    the first cryptographic algorithm endorsed by the federal government
    and was embraced by the private sector, especially banking, where it
        protects billions of dollars in transfers and other financial
     transactions daily. When a person withdraws cash from an automated
   teller machine, for instance, his or her personal identification number
                      is probably encrypted using DES.

      Reflecting the popularity of DES, four leading standards-setting
         organizations participated in the development of DES-based
   cryptographic standards for financial data, information processing and
       financial services, federal procurement, and telecommunications
   security.Commercial hardware and software products also rely on it. The
    most recent industry survey showed that, as of late 1997, almost half
   of U.S. cryptographic products and 43 percent of foreign products used
                                    DES.

     The DES algorithm was developed by IBM Corp. However, NIST played a
   major role in the resulting popu-larity of the technology by making it
     a standard for federal agencies, assuring that the standard met all
     requirements and was acceptable to many potential users, analyzing
    security concerns, and evaluating the costs and benefits of modifying
   or replacing the standard. The thoroughness of the testing is reflected
      by the fact that, even 23 years after it was issued, DES is still
   considered unbreakable except by brute force (i.e., using computers to
       try every possible 56-bit key). Today, NIST is coordinating the
             development of a more powerful successor standard.

                       Back to Energy and Environment



                                    1979
                    In Semiconductors, Smaller Is Better

         As integrated circuits (computer chips) shrink in size, the
   semiconductor industry needs increasingly tiny “rulers” for measuring
   the widths of circuit features. If feature size is not controlled, then
    the chips may fail. Who better to meet this need than NIST, which has
         assisted the semiconductor industry for more than 45 years?

    When the feature-size issue first arose, NIST created an entirely new
    measurement system and, in 1979, issued its first photomask linewidth
   standard, which became an instant best seller. Three leading companies
    stopped using internal standards and adopted the one from NIST. This
     standard reduced measurement discrepancies among companies tenfold,
    stimulated the production of new commercial instruments, extended the
   range of use of optical microscopes, and saved the industry millions of
                              dollars annually.

   By the mid-1980s, chip features were on the order of 1 micrometer wide
     (75 to 100 times thinner than a human hair). Today, dimensions are
    about one-tenth that size. To meet today’s needs, NIST has responded
   with photomask linewidth standards with ever smaller features, as well
   as several new approaches for accurately measuring circuit features as
     small as one-tenth of a micrometer (or less). Methods that use the
     spacing between crystalline silicon atoms or direct counting of the
    atoms as the ruler are currently being pursued. NIST researchers also
    are developing special microscopic techniques for use as calibration
                            and metrology tools.

                       Back to Energy and Environment

                            Date created: 11/2/00
                            Last updated: 11/7/00
                     Page maintained by Crissy Robinson.
