http://snfactory.lbl.gov/snf.syb.ps

   The Nearby Supernova Factory G. Aldering (LBNL) & R. Pain (IN2P3)
   ABSTRACT The Nearby Supernova Factory will lay the foundation for the
   next generation of experiments to measure the expansion history of the
   Universe. It will discover and obtain lightcurve spectrophotometry for
   , 300 Type Ia supernovae in the low-redshift end of the smooth Hubble
   flow. The search capabilities and the follow-up instrumentation are
   described; they include wide-field CCD imagers on two 1.2-m telescopes,
   and an integral-field-unit optical spectrograph on a 2.2-m telescope.
   The dataset will serve as the premier source of calibration of the SN
   Ia width-brightness relation and the intrinsic SN Ia colors used for
   correction of extinction by dust. This dataset will also allow an
   extensive search for additional parameters which influence the quality
   of SNe Ia as cosmological probes. The lowest redshift SNe Ia from this
   program can be used to measure galaxy peculiar velocities and thereby
   constrain \Omega M . 1. Overview The recent measurements of \Omega M
   and \Omega \Lambda by the Supernova Cosmology Project (SCP) using 42
   high-z Type Ia supernovae (SNe Ia; see Fig 1) excludes a simple \Omega
   M = 1 flat universe, and presents strong evidence for the existence of
   a cosmological constant (\Omega \Lambda ? 0). Through further
   ground-based and space-based initiatives -- such as the Hubble Space
   Telescope (HST) and the SuperNova/Acceleration Probe (SNAP) -- we are
   seeking to confirm this exciting result with observations of SNe Ia at
   even higher redshift. However, , 50% of the statistical uncertainty in
   the current result stems from the small number (, 20) of low-z SNe Ia
   which are suitable to serve as the zero-point for the SNe Ia Hubble
   diagram. Moreover, it is now critical that SNe Ia be scrutinized even
   more closely to determine whether systematic variations (not already
   accounted for by the lightcurve width vs. luminosity relation) affect
   the use of SNe Ia for cosmology. Well-observed nearby SNe Ia,
   especially in host galaxies spanning a wide range in star-formation
   histories, are essential for testing for possible systematics. In
   addition, further study of nearby SNe will allow refinement of known
   SNe Ia luminosity indicators -- and perhaps the discovery of more
   accurate or economical luminosity indicators -- improving SNe Ia as
   tools for cosmology. The importance of more detailed study of (nearby)
   SNe has led to the development of a new collaboration -- the Nearby
   Supernova Factory (SNfactory) -- to discover and obtain detailed
   lightcurve and spectral observations for at least 300 nearby
   supernovae. This new project currently - 2 - involves scientists at
   LBNL in the United States and IN2P31 & INSU2 in France. The SNfactory
   will concentrate on SNe Ia, but will also work to develop Type II
   supernovae (SNe II) as more reliable distance indicators. Since the
   physics and measurement methods applicable to Type Ia and Type II
   supernovae are so different, they will serve as crucial cross-checks on
   each other. The SNfactory represents the next natural step in the study
   of nearby supernovae -- which began with visual discovery and follow-up
   and has progressed through photographic and then CCD searches, but with
   often spotty and heterogeneous follow-up. Although modern CCD imagers
   on (semi-)automated telescopes have made nearby supernova discoveries
   routine, obtaining the minimal follow-up for even a modest number of
   supernovae can be daunting (as we found during the SCP's Spring 1999
   Nearby Supernova Campaign, in which 20 Type Ia supernovae were found
   and intensively studied). Improvements, such as automation and tight
   coordination of the search and follow-up stages, including dedicated
   and optimized follow-up instrumentation, are now required to build a
   large sample of well-observed and well-calibrated supernovae. Several
   aspects of the SNfactory set it apart from other past and on-going
   nearby supernova projects. Foremost among these is that supernovae will
   be discovered using a blind wide-area CCDbased survey; other nearby
   supernova projects target known galaxies, but there is now evidence
   that this approach misses an important subset of supernovae. In
   addition, the SNfactory will coordinate discovery and follow-up
   observations, eliminating the delays and spotty early-lightcurve
   coverage which is now typical. It is expected that with the SNfactory
   detailed follow-up of supernova candidates can begin within as little
   as 3 hrs of the discovery observations. Finally, SNfactory follow-up
   observations will use an integral field unit spectrograph, data from
   which can be used to construct both detailed flux-calibrated spectra
   and broadband images. The regular photometric spectral time series for
   nearby supernovae the SNfactory will generate will revolutionize the
   study of supernovae (see Fig 2b). This dataset will also eliminate
   several limitations (wavelength bandpass mismatch, wavelength-dependent
   slit losses, etc.) of all other currently available instrumentation
   used to study supernovae. 2. Goals The primary goal of the SNfactory is
   to determine those properties of SNe Ia affecting their use for
   cosmology. The most critical of these will be the search for deviations
   or extra parameters not accounted for by the lightcurve width -
   brightness relations currently used to standardize SNe Ia for use as
   cosmological distance indicators. If such deviations are found, it is
   expected that exclusion criteria or improved standardization methods
   based on lightcurve shapes and/or spectral features (see Fig. 2) will
   be found to ameliorate the effect of deviant SNe Ia on measurements of
   the 1CNRS Institute for Nuclear & Particle Physics 2CNRS Institute for
   Astronomy & Astrophysics - 3 - \Omega M No Big Bang 1 2 fl0 1 2 3 fl
   expands forever \Omega \Lambda Flatfl\Lambda = 0fl Universe-1 0 1 2 3 2
   3 close do pen 90% 68% 99%95% recollapses eventually flat
   Calan/Tololofl(Hamuy et al, fl A.J. 1996) SupernovaflCosmologyfl
   Project effe ctiv e m B (0.5,0.5) (0, 0)( 1, 0 ) (1, 0) (1.5,-0.5) (2,
   0) (\Omega M,\Omega \Lambda ) = fl ( 0, 1 ) Fla t \Lambda = 0 redshift
   z 14 16 18 20 22 24 26 0.02 0.05 0.1 0.2 0.5 1.00.02 0.05 0.1 0.2 0.5
   1.0 Fig. 1.-- Cosmological constraints from Type Ia supernovae: Hubble
   diagram and resulting constraints on \Omega M and \Omega \Lambda from
   42 high-z Type Ia supernovae from Perlmutter et al 1998b. At left, the
   68%, 90%, and 99% confidence regions for an unconstrained fit for
   \Omega M and \Omega \Lambda are shown. At right, the low-z SNe Ia are
   those currently available which are suitable for analysis using the
   same methods as used for the high-z SNe Ia. cosmological parameters. In
   addition, a number of sample-size and technical issues related to the
   use of SNe Ia as distance indicators for cosmology will also be
   addressed by the SNfactory. These include to a) secure the low-z
   portion of the SNe Ia Hubble diagram (Fig 1) which serves as the
   zero-point (M) for high-z cosmological measurements. b) acquire
   lightcurves at numerous optical (and hopefully near-infrared)
   wavelengths beginning well before maximum -- data currently available
   for only a handful of nearby SNe Ia, and needed to fit the lightcurves
   of high-z SNe Ia for which there is now extensive data prior to maximum
   (see Fig 2a). c) test and refine the lightcurve width vs. brightness
   relation used to standardize SNe Ia luminosities, for which a wide
   range of lightcurve widths is essential. - 4 - d) construct an
   ultraviolet (U -band) template lightcurve and an ultraviolet lightcurve
   width vs. brightness relation to allow restframe ultraviolet
   lightcurves of z ? 0:75 SNe Ia observed with HST to be used. e) obtain
   spectral coverage with lightcurve phase, and thereby determine accurate
   wavelength bandpass corrections (K-corrections) as a function of
   lightcurve width and time (see Fig 2b). f) determine intrinsic SNe Ia
   color-curves needed to establish the correct color zeropoints for
   host-galaxy dust extinction corrections. g) test for the existence of
   abnormal host-galaxy dust extinction laws. In principle, SNAP could
   conduct such technical studies itself. The measurements must be
   obtained in a fashion such that the technical measurements have little
   covariance with measurement of the cosmological parameters. This
   requires that the determination be made at very low redshift -- for
   which SNAP has not been optimized -- or in a very narrow redshift shell
   at higher-redshift. However, it is much more cost-effective and
   efficient to obtain these technical observations with the SNfactory,
   and since the data analysis can be completed well before SNAP flies,
   final details of the SNAP mission and analysis chain can be fine-tuned
   prior to launch rather than after SNAP has collected the technical data
   itself. The resulting SNfactory dataset on SNe Ia will also allow
   detailed exploration of SNe Ia properties never before possible, which
   will almost certainly lead to a better understanding of SN physics,
   place strong constraints on progenitor models, and possibly allow
   improved luminosity estimates. It will enable us to determine a) the
   intrinsic luminosity function of SNe Ia. b) new relations between
   lightcurve shapes, spectral diagnostics (such as UV continuum slope,
   Si5180/Si6150 line ratios), etc., and luminosity. c) SNe properties in
   different host galaxy environments (as a surrogate for progenitor age,
   mass, and metallicity). d) the rates of SNe of all types, including
   rates as a function of host galaxy properties. The large sample of
   SNfactory SNe will be important in recognizing the signature of any new
   supernova sub-types, which could in turn signal the existence of
   multiple progenitor scenarios. Indeed, the large number of SN and
   host-galaxy parameters whose exploration is of potential interest
   requires a large dataset covering parameter space. - 5 - 3. Components
   of the Nearby SNfactory 3.1. Discovery The SNfactory will search for
   supernovae using CCD images obtained by JPL's Near Earth Asteroid Team
   (NEAT). A proof-of-concept search conducted using two nights of NEAT
   data found 4 confirmed supernovae. NEAT has since expanded its
   operation to include a 1.2-m telescope (at the 10,000 ft summit of
   Haleakala, Hawaii) working 18 nights per month. In addition, since this
   search covers large portions of the sky irrespective of known galaxies,
   it will be rid of the biases to which pointed searches are subject due
   to their reliance on existing galaxy catalogs. NEAT has recently
   quadrupled its capacity, with a second 1.2-m telescope operating at Mt.
   Palomar with a large CCD camera, so we expect to discover several
   supernovae per night. Each patch of sky will be revisited frequently
   (about every 6 days, since this is the "refresh rate" for NEA's). This
   will enable early discovery -- and hence early lightcurve coverage --
   and help eliminate Malmquist bias. As with the proof-of-concept search,
   NEAT data (up to 80 Gbyte/night) are being transferred in near realtime
   via high-speed Internet connections to LBNL/NERSC (including a
   custom-built wireless Internet connection to Palomar). Once there, the
   images are processed and searched on a PC cluster using automated
   software developed by the SCP and refined by the SNfactory. An
   important aspect of the SNfactory is that the selection of supernova
   candidates will be quantitative and traceable, something current
   surveys completely lack and which makes calculations of supernova rates
   and peculiarity fractions extremely difficult. 3.2. Follow-up --
   Lightcurves and Spectroscopy The most revolutionary aspect of the
   SNfactory -- aside from the huge numbers of supernovae it will find --
   is the coordinated follow-up using instrumentation tailored to the
   study of supernovae. Candidate supernovae found in the NEAT images must
   first be screened with spectroscopy to confirm the supernovae and
   reveal its type (Ia, II, Ib, Ic) and redshift. The SNfactory will not
   only discover supernovae closer to explosion that other surveys do,
   with a 3 hr turn-around it will also begin the follow-up much much
   sooner. The SNfactory plans to have at least two telescopes with
   optimal instrumentation available every night, waiting to be fed by the
   stream of supernova candidates coming from the two NEAT sites.
   Traditionally supernovae have been followed with BV RI optical
   photometry, and spectra beyond the initial confirmation spectrum are
   rare. The SNfactory will change all that. Using a integral field unit
   on a two-channel (blue & red) optical spectrograph, the SNfactory's
   SuperNova Integral Field Spectrograph (SNIFS; under construction in
   France) equipped with LBNL's redenhanced CCD's, will allow spectroscopy
   of supernovae at all epochs. Because these spectra will be
   spectrophotometric, U BV RIZ photometry can be synthesized from these
   spectra, without the - 6 - uncertainties due to photometric color terms
   and K-corrections. SNIFS will retain one advantage of the traditional
   approach, which allows surrounding field stars to be used for flux
   scaling when conditions are non-photometric, by also having an imager
   which integrates on the field immediately surrounding each supernova,
   using the exact same exposure as the integral field unit. 4. More about
   SNIFS The opto-mechanical layout of SNIFS is shown in Fig. 3. The
   operation of SNIFS is intended to be fully automated. An
   observer/technician is needed to prepare the telescope for observing at
   the start of the night, close the telescope in the morning. Ancillary
   SNfactory software will plan the observations and command the telescope
   to point at specific targets. SNIFS and its associated software will
   take focus data which will be used to adjust the telescope focus,
   recognize star fields near requested targets using the SNIFS imager,
   adjust the telescope pointing to place the desired target on the
   integral field unit, and acquire and guide on a suitable star. It will
   then execute an observing sequence for the spectrograph and imager,
   read out the date, determine the quality of the data, and take its own
   calibration. Moving parts on SNIFS are limited to a shutter, filter
   wheel, and pick-off mirror (feeding the spectrograph). The electronic
   components consist of detector readout (for 4 CCD's), a shutter, filter
   wheel, calibration lamps, and status-monitoring. Software interface to
   the telescope control system to execute pointing and focus adjustments,
   and to obtain information for the data headers and control software
   exists, and is being refined at University of Hawaii. SNIFS
   continuously covers a 600\Theta 600field of view with a sampling of
   0.400. It has blue and red channels, which are operated simultaneously,
   generating spectra on a thinned Marconi 2k\Theta 4k CCD in the blue and
   a 2k\Theta 4k LBNL red-enhanced CCD's in the red at resolutions of
   4.5*A and 6.6*A, respectively. The imager consists of a 2k\Theta 4k
   LBNL red-enhanced CCD with 15_m pixels, which views the sky surrounding
   the spectrograph pick-off mirror. The built-in guider/focuser consists
   of a second identical CCD. The imager and guider are used directly,
   without re-imaging optics. The SNfactory currently has plans to place
   the first SNIFS on the University of Hawaii 2.2-m telescope on Mauna
   Kea. It will be permanently mounted, and continuously available for use
   of up to 20% of the night using time supplied to the SNfactory. 5.
   Cosmology with the SNfactory The SNfactory will concentrate its
   intensive follow-up observations on Type Ia supernovae in the Hubble
   flow at 0:03 ! z ! 0:06 so that the radial component of the peculiar
   velocities of the host galaxies (typically 300 km/s) is a minor portion
   of the overall error budget. For z ! 0:03 these peculiar velocities
   will be measurable, and are proportional to fi = \Omega M 0:6=b, where
   b is the scaling between galaxy and dark matter density fluctuations. A
   large all-sky sample of z ! 0:03 - 7 - supernova distance measurements,
   in conjunction with galaxy maps from redshift surveys, will allow an
   excellent determination of fi and so will constrain the value of \Omega
   M . Moreover, these distance measurements, including those from even
   somewhat higher redshift SNfactory supernovae, will be able to
   determine the spatial scale over which the velocity field converges.
   This in turn determines the spatial scale at which the universe becomes
   homogeneous. 6. The SNfactory as a Prototype for SNAP The SNfactory
   will be placing 3 LBNL CCD's into long-term use, where their behavior
   -- including any rare failure modes -- can be observed. The SNfactory
   will also be used to demonstrate the efficacy of SNAP's IFU
   spectrograph in all respects, including automated target acquisition,
   data reduction, calibration, and science analysis. Presently there is
   no published direct demonstration that an IFU can deliver
   spectrophotometric spectroscopy with very wide wavelength coverage, and
   at the 1% level there are a number of important issues to address. The
   SNfactory is developing the reduction and calibration techniques to
   make accurate spectrophotometric spectroscopy possible. Besides
   determining the basic Type Ia supernova properties needed for the SNAP
   mission and prototyping some SNAP-like instrumentation, the SNfactory
   will develop and apply many of the software algorithms needed to search
   for and follow supernovae. These will be directly applicable to SNAP.
   The raw data rate for the SNfactory will be up to 30 Tbyte/yr, and ,
   1000 supernovae (at all types and redshifts) will be discovered. The
   search and follow-up will be mostly automated, just as they must be for
   SNAP. The datasets will have their differences, but they will have
   enough similarities that the algorithms developed for the SNfactory
   should be portable to SNAP. Moreover, the SNfactory will have a
   significant run-time prior to SNAP so that any rare bugs can be found.
   7. Conclusion The SNfactory will revolutionize all phases of
   experimental work on supernovae. The rate of discoveries will exceed
   the current rate by an order of magnitude, the discovery biases will be
   lessened (and traceable), and the quality and quantity of follow-up
   data will exceed that of current programs by a large factor. With such
   data, it is expected that great strides can be made in improving
   supernovae as cosmological distance indicators. In addition, the
   SNfactory study of the peculiar velocities of supernova host galaxies
   should provide strong dynamical constraints on the value of \Omega M .
   - 8 - -20 0 20 40 60 -17 -18 -19 -20 -20 0 20 40 60-17 -18 -19 -20 V
   Band as measured light-curve timescalefl"stretch-factor" corrected days
   MV - 5 log (h/6 5) days MV - 5 log (h/6 5) Calan/Tololo SNe Ia
   SpectraflAn Example: SN1994an at z = 0.378fl +9 days past max observer
   framefl= +6 days rest frame fl days flrest frame fl Wavelength in SN
   Rest Frame Scaled Flux +flConstants Keck 10-m TelescopeSN1994an at z =
   0.378 "Nearby" Type Iafl SN1992A -5 -1 +3 +6 +7 +11 +16 +17 +24 +28
   Fig. 2.-- Photometric and Spectral Time Evolution of Type Ia
   supernovae: At left, lightcurves for nearby SNe Ia. The upper panel
   shows lightcurves for individual SNe Ia, corrected for relative
   distance using Hubble's law. Template lightcurves have been fit to the
   lightcurve for each SN and indicate that the brighter SNe have
   lightcurves which are broader and decline more slowly. The lower panel
   at left shows the superposition of these data after using a brightness
   correction derived from the lightcurve width. At right, the evolution
   of the spectrum of a Type Ia supernova as the explosion ages
   (constructed from different SNe Ia). The shaded regions highlight
   portions of the spectra which are seen to change with time; some of
   these are luminosity indicators. Both datasets offer important clues to
   the physics of SNe Ia. - 9 -
