http://waiver.tasc.dot.gov/html/exceptions.html

   u.s.dot
   Tasc_Waiver_Website
   Exceptions from the Waiver Process

   Waiver Homepage Definitions Waiver Process Exceptions How to Request a
   Waiver Waiver Request Form Questions and Answers How Waivers Are
   Processed TASC Waivers Listings More Info
   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]
   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]
   [clearpixel.gif] [clearpixel.gif]
   Waiver Homepage
   Definitions
   Waiver Process Exceptions
   How to Request a Waiver
   Waiver Request Form
   Questions and Answers
   How Waivers Are Processed
   TASC Waivers Listings
   More Info

   In rare instances, certain types of waiver requests cannot be approved
   because of a compelling reason to disapprove the request or because
   they are not covered by the provisions of this Process.  The following
   types of waiver requests are the only types of  requests that cannot be
   approved:


   Requests for the waiver of rules that a TASC official does not have the
   authority to waive.  These include such rules as those  required by
   law, other legal or Government-wide regulatory requirements, or other
   requirements that have been established by, for example, an Executive
   Order, a negotiated labor agreement, a binding formal contract, or the
   rule of another operating administration.  Requests for waivers of the
   rule of another operating administration should be submitted under that
   operating administration's waiver request process.


    Requests for the waiver of civil rights protections and anything that
   would adversely impact the operational consistency of how TASC
   employees and TASC customers, including members of the public, are
   treated.


    Requests for the waiver of anything that would result in the
   degradation of TASC's mission or that of another operating
   administration.


    Requests for the waiver of  a "discretionary management decision,"
   such as decisions about workload distribution, work hours,
   telecommuting arrangements, etc.  Requests for the waiver of a
   discretionary management decision are excluded from the Process and
   therefore, cannot be approved.


    Requests for the waiver of rules currently undergoing an internal TASC
   evaluation review or externally conducted reviews, such as those
   carried out by the Inspector General or the General Accounting Office.
   Such requests are excluded from the Process and therefore, cannot be
   approved.  However, upon completion of such reviews cited above,
   requester will be invited to resubmit their requests by the process
   owner.


    Requests for the waiver of rules already covered by pre-existing
   waivers or those previously disapproved under the provisions of this
   Process.  Such requests are excluded from the Process and therefore,
   cannot be approved.  However, upon the expiration of a current
   pre-existing waiver (if temporary), or upon identification by the
   requestor of potential new efficiencies to be realized by the adoption
   of a previously disapproved waiver, requesters will be invited to
   resubmit their request by the process owner.

                        hand holding stamp - excepted


   links
   Waiver Homepage Definitions Waiver Process Exceptions How to Request a
   Waiver Waiver Request Form Questions and Answers How Waivers Are
   Processed TASC Waivers Listings More Info
