http://www.occ.treas.gov/pubinf.htm

       Skip to quick links of this area Skip to main content OCC Logo
        Comptroller of the Currency, Administrator of National Banks

             HOME | CONTACT THE OCC | DIRECTORY | SUBJECT INDEX | SITE MAP
   Public Information

   Search this Site: __________ go
   Search Tips
   What's New
   About the OCC
   Banker Education
   Careers at the OCC
   Community Affairs
   Corporate Applications
   CRA Information
   Customer Assistance
   Electronic Banking
   FOIA
   Issuances
   Publications
   Public Information

     Notice of Fees

     Assessment Calculator

     Assessment Returns
          - General Assessment
          - Schedule of Fees for
               Independent Trust Banks
          - Schedule of Fees for
               Independent Credit
               Card Banks

     Licensing Fees
   Skip to main content
   Regulatory Information
   Related Sites
   Treasury Homepage
   National BankNet for Chartered National Banks
   FirstGov

   End of Left Navigation links group

               How to Find Public Information on the Web about
                              Individual Banks

   One way to get public information about an individual bank is to go to
   a Web site maintained by a federal bank regulator: the Office of the
   Comptroller of the Currency (national banks), the Federal Reserve Board
   (state chartered banks that are members of the Federal Reserve System
   and bank holding companies) and the Federal Deposit Insurance
   Corporation (insured state banks that are not members of the Federal
   Reserve System). These agencies maintain records about the banks they
   supervise. If you want to find out about a financial institution that
   is not a bank, you can visit the Web site maintained by the Office of
   Thrift Supervision (savings and loans) or the National Credit Union
   Administration (credit unions).

   If the bank you're interested in is a national bank, you are already at
   the right site. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC)
   maintains a variety of public information about the national banking
   system. If you do a search about the bank you're researching you may
   find a list of OCC documents in which your bank is mentioned. Documents
   can include, for example, a corporate application filed by your bank to
   merge with another bank or to engage in an innovative activity. You'll
   also find evaluations of your bank's performance under the Community
   Reinvestment Act (CRA), or information about an enforcement action the
   OCC may have imposed (or withdrawn) on the bank. Since much of the
   public information about a national bank is not available
   electronically, you also can contact the OCC's Communications Division
   to find out how to get paper-based information.

   If you don't know which federal agency is the primary regulator of the
   bank you're interested in, you can go the Federal Deposit Insurance
   Corporation (FDIC) Web site and click on the Institution Directory.
   Enter the name of the bank and you will get a list of likely matches
   (many banks have similar names). The FDIC is also a good source to get
   statistical information about individual banks, including national
   banks. For example, you can get demographic data and financial profiles
   derived from quarterly reports filed with federal regulators. The
   Federal Reserve Board's National Information Center of Banking
   Information also may be useful, because it has balance sheet and income
   information about banks and bank holding companies.
   This page may contain PDF documents
   Download Adobe Acrobat Reader 5.0
   Please read the Comptroller of the Currency's Privacy Policy.

   You are entering an official United States government system, which may
   be used only for authorized purposes. Unauthorized modification of any
   information stored on this system may result in criminal prosecution.
