http://info.texas.gov/page.jsp?language=eng&pageId=contact-us

    Skip to content

   Texas Online
                En Español Accessibility Privacy Help


   About Texas
   Business and Consumer Services
   Education and Training
   Employment and Labor
   Environment and Natural Resources
   Government
   Health and Family Services
   Laws and Criminal Justice
   Licenses, Permits, Registration, and Public Records
   Online Services
   Regional and Community Resources
   Travel and Recreation

   Search


   ________       GO
   Advanced Search


   Statewide Search TRAIL

   Quicklinks > I want to... FAQs
   Home : Contact Us


   Contact Us

   This site is managed by the TexasOnline Division of the Texas
   Department of Information Resources (DIR).

   If you have a question, comment, or suggestion we would like to hear
   it. Before submitting a question, please review the frequently asked
   question page.

General Questions

   For any general questions related to Texas or questions regarding the
   location of State of Texas resources on the web please direct your
   questions to Texas State Library Reference desk. Please send email to
   reference.desk@tsl.state.tx.us.

   The desk is staffed Monday through Friday, from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. If you
   need immediate assistance during those hours, please contact us by
   telephone at 512.463.5455.

Technical Questions

   If you have comments or suggestions about the State of Texas web site
   that are of a technical nature, i.e. what type of server software do
   you use, how can I add a link to the page, or would like to report a
   broken link, please send email to webmaster@www.state.tx.us.

   TexasOnline, the official State of Texas web site, is a public/private
   partnership maintained by the Department of Information Resources and
   KPMG Consulting. Replies to emails sent to webmaster generally take
   place within 36 hours.

Application Questions

   While accessing a TexasOnline application, should there be technical
   difficulties or the ability to access the application terminates
   unexpectedly, please send email to contactus@texasonlinehelp.com.

   The application support area is open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
   Please know that some questions may require information or action from
   agency specific personnel. Each TexasOnline application provides
   detailed contact information should agency assistance be required.
   Also, before submitting a question, please review the frequently asked
   question page.

   Contact Us About Us

   Public Information Act Link Policy Legal
