http://cog.nimh.nih.gov/mishkin.html

                            Mortimer Mishkin, Ph.D.

              Chief,

            Section on

      Cognitive Neuroscience

   Synopsis of Ongoing Research

                               [mmA]

   CAPTION: Profile                                                List of
   Recent Publications

   Mortimer Mishkin, a cognitive neuroscientist in the Laboratory of
   Neuropsychology (LN) at the NIMH, studies brain/behavior relations in
   humans and nonhuman primates. With his colleagues, he helped to
   identify some of the areas in the cerebral cortex that are essential
   for perception and memory. This work showed that knowing what a
   stimulus is and knowing where it is depends on the activity of separate
   sensory "pathways" or "streams", each made up of many cortical areas
   arranged in a hierarchy. He and his colleagues discovered further that
   the cortical sensory streams in each modality stimulate two different
   brain circuits required for memory: a cortico-limbic circuit,
   responsible for the memory of facts and events; and a cortico-striatal
   circuit, responsible for the learning of different types of habits and
   motor skills. Mishkin began his graduate work in 1947 at McGill
   University under D.O. Hebb, with whom he did his Master's thesis on
   perception in the left and right visual fields. In 1949 he moved to
   Yale University, where he completed his Ph.D. thesis for McGill on the
   effects of temporal lobe lesions in monkeys on visual perception and
   learning under the tutelage of H.E. Rosvold and K.H. Pribram. From 1951
   to 1955 he was a Postdoctoral Fellow with Pribram at a primate
   neurobehavioral research laboratory they set up at the Institute of
   Living in Hartford, Connecticut; during this same period he traveled
   biweekly to the New York University-Bellevue Medical Center to work
   with H.-L. Teuber on the cognitive effects of brain injuries in wounded
   war veterans.

   In 1955, Mishkin moved to the NIMH to rejoin Rosvold who had just
   established a Section on Neuropsychology within the Laboratory of
   Psychology. The section later gained the status of a laboratory, and
   Mishkin became its chief in 1980, when Rosvold retired. In 1994 he
   became an Associate Director for Basic Research at the NIMH. In 1997,
   he stepped down from these positions to become chief of the Section on
   Cognitive Neuroscience within LN. Mishkin was president of the Division
   of Physiological and Comparative Psychology of the American
   Psychological Association in 1969, and of the Society for Neuroscience
   in 1986. He is a member of the National Academy of Sciences and the
   Institute of Medicine, and he serves on the advisory boards of several
   scientific journals and university research institutes.
   Current research interests. The Section uses a multidisciplinary
   approach to investigate the neurobiological mechanisms underlying
   learning and memory in primates. In monkeys, the approach involves: (a)
   studying the effects of selective cerebral lesions on the performance
   of specially designed behavioral learning and cognitive memory tasks in
   various sensory modalities, in the attempt to separate and identify
   different mnemonic functions and localize their critical neural
   substrates in the basal ganglia and limbic system; (b) applying
   anatomical tracing techniques, to reveal how the different substrates
   belonging to a functional family are organized as components of a
   neural system or circuit; (c) recording electrophysiological activity
   within the identified substrates, to determine the nature of the
   information those neurons receive and transmit before, during, and
   after learning; and (d) injecting pharmacological agents into those
   same substrates, to relate the learning-dependent changes in behavior
   and neuronal activity to the underlying cellular and synaptic
   mechanisms. The learning and memory mechanisms uncovered in the
   research on monkeys serves as the basis for a search for homologous
   mechanisms in brain-damaged patients examined both neuropsychologically
   and with quantitative magnetic resonance techniques. The human research
   is conducted in collaboration with a team at the Institute of Child
   Health, University College London Medical School.
