http://cox.house.gov/press/coverage/2001/trib0412china.htm

                               [frameban.jpg]



                                                       Return to Home Page

                                                            About Rep. Cox
                                               Legislative Accomplishments
                                                            News and Views
                                                       Contacting Rep. Cox
                                                           At Your Service
                                                The House Policy Committee
                                                         The 47th District
                                              Rep. Cox's Television Report


                 LAWMAKERS ADVOCATE A HARD LOOK AT RELATIONS

                               Chicago Tribune

                               April 12, 2001

   By William Neikirk

   Even with the release of the 24-member crew of an American spy plane,
   anger and suspicion over China's behavior in this incident still run
   deep in a Congress that only last year voted to normalize trade
   relations with Beijing.
   Lawmakers' feelings will play out in coming weeks in efforts to
   overturn that watershed trade deal, in loud and fiery speeches, in
   consideration of selling Taiwan sophisticated arms, and perhaps in a
   hard reassessment of how the U.S. deals with China's growing economic
   and military clout.
   But in the end, few in Congress are willing to predict a dramatic
   change in either trade or foreign policy with Beijing despite much
   political hand-wringing. The basic underpinning of U.S.-China relations
   is likely to remain intact: The dollar is mightier than the sword.
   Still, it's clear that China's behavior in holding the crew had a
   sobering effect on many in Congress who had been much more supportive
   of expanding trade and other dealings with Beijing.
   Sen. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) is taking a hard line. "The Chinese have to
   understand that they will pay a price, even if it's just a price of
   attitude, over what they have done over the last two weeks," he said.
   "If they learn that and perhaps change, then we end up with a better
   relationship in the end."
   Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.) called China's conduct over the last 11 days
   "inexcusable" and the detentions "reprehensible."
   "China's behavior has damaged U.S.-Sino relations, not irreparably, but
   seriously," McCain said. "And the primary responsibility for repairing
   our relationship rests, as does responsibility for this incident,
   squarely with Beijing."
   In an effort to differentiate himself from the Clinton administration's
   approach to China, President Bush, during his campaign, referred to
   China as a strategic competitor rather than a strategic partner.
   Rep. Christopher Cox (R-Calif.), chairman of the House Republican
   Policy Committee, said the surveillance plane incident showed China did
   not behave as a partner.
   "For many years, there was an inside joke here that PRC [People's
   Republic of China] stands for public-relations calamity," Cox said.
   "This was yet another example. The PRC did not win any friends in the
   United States or in the world community."
   Curbing technology transfer
   While Cox has spearheaded efforts to curb the export of technology to
   China that could have military uses, he said it's clear that U.S.
   controls in this regard have not been working and a new approach is
   needed.
   As a result, he said, a group composed of members of Congress, the
   executive branch and think tanks will soon recommend that multilateral
   export controls--similar to those that existed during the Cold War--be
   imposed to prevent technology that is militarily sensitive from being
   exported to China and other countries.
   House Democratic Leader Richard Gephardt of Missouri predicted in a
   Chicago speech Wednesday that U.S.-China relations are headed for rough
   times, in part because of China's human-rights violations. "It's very
   difficult to have a serious relationship with a country run by a
   dictatorship," he said.

   Tribune staff reporter Karen Rivedal contributed to this story.
