http://www.boost4kids.gov/topics.cfm?ID=30

   REFRESH(200 sec): file://localhost/


   Welcome

   Meet B4K Network

   Find Your State

   Home


   Boost 4 Kids

   HOME

Hot Topics

   work together



   AFTER-SCHOOL SNACKS


   Afterschool Snacks Cycle Menus

   The Food and Nutrition Service at USDA has developed menus to help
   aftershool programs in the preparation of healthy snacks. There are
   menus for both traditional kitchen facilities and limited kitchen
   facilities.

   Child Nutrition Program, School Snacks

   Links to the USDA, Food and Nutrition Service, page for school snacks.
   Included in the site are links to a Implementation Memorandum, FAQs,
   Free and Reduced Price Application Materials and more.

   Feeding Kids Afterschool

   This link gives an overview of federally funded snack and other
   nutrition programs.

   Food Research and Action Center

   The Food Research and Action Center (FRAC) is a leading national
   organization working to improve public policies to eradicate hunger and
   undernutrition in the United States.

   Maximizing Federal Food and Nutrition Funds for Out-of-School Time and
   Community School Initiatives

   Out-of-school time and community school programs can utilize one or
   more of four federal food and nutrition programs. Together, these
   programs offer a variety of options for providing snacks and meals to
   school-age children and youth. The Food and Nutrition Service of the
   U.S. Department of Agriculture oversees all of the following programs.
   In most states, state education agencies administer the programs.

   Summer Food Service Program

   SFSP is the single largest Federal resource available for local
   sponsors who want to combine a feeding program with a summer activity
   program.

   Understanding Flexibility in Federal Education Programs 2000

   This publication will help you figure out how to successfully maneuver
   through complex program rules, including using after-school snacks, to
   get the most from every federal education dollar.

   Text Only | News | Contact Us | Privacy Statement | Home
